ARUN MISHRA, J. 1. The correct interpretation of Section 24 of the Right to Fair

Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation

and Resettlement Act, 2013 (for short, 'the Act of 2013'), is the subject

matter of reference to this five Judge Bench of this Court. 2. A three Judge Bench of this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation

& Anr v Harakchand Misrimal Solanki & Ors 1, interpreted Section 24 of

the Act of 2013. The order reported as Yogesh Neema & Ors v State of

Madhya Pradesh2 , a two-judge Bench, however doubted the decision in

Sree Balaji Nagar Residents Association v State of Tamil Nadu 3 (which

had followed Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and also held that Section 24 (2) of the Act of 2013 does not exclude any period during

which the land acquisition proceeding might have remained stayed on

account of stay or injunction granted by any court) and referred the

issue to a larger Bench. Later, in another appeal (arising out of S.L.P.

(C) No.2131 of 2016 ( Indore Development Authority v Shailendra (dead)

through Lrs. & Ors.4) the matter was referred to a larger Bench on

7.12.2017; the Court noticed that: Section (2) or main Section 24 of the Act of 2013? 4. What is mode of taking possession under the Land Acquisition
 Act and true meaning of expression the physical possession of
 the land has not been taken occurring in Section 24(2) of the Act
 of 2013? 5. Whether the period covered by an interim order of a Court
 concerning land acquisition proceedings ought to be excluded for
 the purpose of applicability of Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 ? 6. Whether Section 24 of the Act of 2013 revives barred and stale
 claims? In addition, question of per incuriam and other incidental
 questions also to be gone into.” 5. Question nos.1 to 3 are interconnected and concern the correct

interpretation of Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013. Following questions

are required to be gone into to interpret the provisions of Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013: 6. The Act of 2013 repeals and replaces the Land Acquisition Act,

1894 , a general law for acquisition of land of public purposes, which

had been in force for almost 120 years, with a view to address certain

inadequacies and/ or shortcomings in the said Act. 7. The Act of 2013 is prospective and saves proceedings already

initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 before its repeal, subject

to provisions of Section 24 of the Act of 2013, which begins with a non-

obstante clause and overrides all other provisions of the Act of 2013. 8. On behalf of the Union, the States and various acquiring bodies

and development authorities, Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor

General (who led the arguments, hereafter “SG”), Ms. Pinky Anand,

learned Additional Solicitor General (hereafter “ASG”), Mr. Anoop

Chaudhary and Mr. Jayant Muthuraj, learned Senior Counsel, Ms.

Shashi Kiran, Ms. Rachna Srivastava, Mr. R.M. Bhangade and Mr.

Rajesh Mahale, learned counsel, made their submissions. 9. The learned SG, arguing that this Court should overrule the ratio

in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and other judgments which 7 followed it, contended that the Court did not consider the various

interpretations of Section 31 of the (repealed) Land Acquisition Act , (“ LA

Act ” hereafter). He urged that the provisions of the Act of 2013, vis-à-

vis the timelines and consequences that would ensue if the acquisition

proceeding prolongs, were not examined. He highlighted that Section 24 is a transitional provision and such provisions should be given an

interpretation which accords with legislative intent, rather than so as to

impose hitherto absent standards, upon past proceedings, or

proceedings initiated under the previous regime, but which have not

worked themselves out. He urged that there is a presumption in favour

of restricted retrospective applicability of any provision in an enactment

unless a contrary intention appears. It is submitted that designedly, it

is the stage of passing of award under Section 11 of the LA Act, that

represents the determinative factor in the segregation for the

applicability of the provisions of the Act of 2013 or the LA Act . It is urged

that the opening part of the provision in Section 24(1) is a non-obstante

clause providing for a limited overriding effect of the Land Acquisition

Act , in case of the contingencies mentioned in Section 24 (1) (a) and (b)

of the Act of 2013. 10. Section 24 (1) (a) contemplates that where no award under Section

11 of the LA Act has been made, but proceedings had been initiated

under said Act, provisions of the Act of 2013 would apply limited to the

determination of compensation. In other words, the entire exercise de 8 novo, under the Act of 2013, will not be required to be undertaken.

Therefore, Section 24 (1) (a) contemplates a limited applicability of the

Act of 2013. Section 24 (1) (b) stipulates that where an award under Section 11 of the LA Act has been made, the entire proceedings would

continue under that law and the provisions of the Act of 2013 would be

inapplicable. Section 24 (1) (b) is the larger umbrella clause under Section 24 , which protects the vested rights of the parties under the LA

Act if the stage of passing of award has been crossed. It is argued that

the umbrella clause Section 24 (1) (b) , is followed by Section 24(2) -

which provides for the exclusionary clause. Section 24 (2) , the learned

SG highlighted, is the only lapsing clause under the provision which

brings in the rigours of the Act of 2013 in totality by mandating the land

acquisition to be initiated de novo. 11. It is urged that Section 24 (2) opens with a non obstante clause

carving out an exception only from Section 24 (1) . It visualizes that land

acquisition proceedings which had been initiated under the LA Act , an

award under Section 11 of the LA Act had been made. Consequently, Section 24 (2) has no relation to Section 24 (1) (a) as it does not

contemplate an award under Section 11 of the LA Act at all. It is,

therefore, a limited exception to Section 24 (1) (b) . Section 24 (2) consequently is umbilically related to Section 24 (1) (b) as an exception,

wherein land acquisition proceedings would lapse in certain 9 contingencies even when an award under Section 11 of the LA Act had

been made. 12. It is submitted that the contingencies for lapsing in Section 24(2) ,

are subject to an award under Section 11 of the LA Act being made five

years prior to the commencement of the Act of 2013 (which is 1.1.2014).

If the award is so made, two contingencies result in complete lapse -: (a)

Physical possession of the land has not been taken; or (b) compensation

has not been “paid”. The provision for lapse, per Section 24(2) is, by its

nature, a vital provision, inviting serious consequences, in case those

contingencies arise. It is the interpretation of these “contingencies” that

requires further consideration. The “contingencies” ought to be

interpreted in a manner which saves the past transactions to the extent

they can be saved as it is clearly not the intention of the Act of 2013 to

tide over all past transactions. 13. The learned SG argued that the proviso to Section 24(2) further

carves out an exception to Section 24(2) viz, in case the award has been

made and compensation in respect of majority of landholdings has not

been deposited in the account of the beneficiaries, no lapsing will take

place, but all the beneficiaries specified in the notification for

acquisition shall be entitled to compensation in accordance with the

provisions of the Act of 2013. 14. Therefore, if only a minority of the claimants are disbursed with

the compensation, such claimants would get benefit of compensation

under the Act of 2013 to a limited extent without lapsing. Thus, it is

clear that even if the acquisition does not lapse, all the beneficiaries to

whom the compensation is payable would be entitled to compensation

under the Act of 2013. 15. It is submitted that Section 24(1)(a) and Section 24(2) are

balancing provisions controlling the extent of retrospectivity and

curtailing the effacement of rights. Such balance of protecting

acquisitions under the LA Act in some defined circumstances whilst

providing the enhanced compensation provisions under the Act of 2013

under some defined circumstances is the “middle path” that Parliament

adopted. It is contended that Section 24(2) is, therefore, controlled by

the proviso mandating again a further middle path consciously chosen

by Parliament. 16. It is argued that while providing for a transitory provision or

situations resulting into “lapsing” of all the steps already taken under

the Act under repeal, the legislature always envisages several

contingencies which emerge out of its day-to-day experience. The

manner in which section 24 [2] and the proviso attached therewith are

drafted clearly discloses that Parliament intended certain inevitable

contingencies which frequently arose in land acquisition proceedings.

It was urged illustratively, that often, land acquired belongs to benami 11 owners, who cannot put forward title, or claim compensation or identify

themselves. In such situations, it may not be possible for an acquiring

authority to “pay” [which, as plain language indicates, would mean

setting apart for being taken by the entitled persons as explained

hereafter] to “all” land holders/ entitled persons. However, as is clear

from the proviso to Section 24 [2], if it can be shown that the amount is

deposited for majority of share-holding, the acquisition would be saved

and cannot lapse; the only consequence would be the determination of

benefits under the Act of 2013. Parliamentary intent in the proviso

clearly appears to be to ascertain the stage up to which the land

acquisition proceedings under LA Act have reached. If nobody is paid

the compensation or compensation is not taken by everyone though

tendered and/or kept ready, the legislature contemplates such a

situation to be a reversible one and, therefore, provides for lapsing of all

previous stages prior to “non-payment”. However, if it can be

demonstrated that though - (1) compensation was tendered to all; (2)

some of them [for whatever reason] did not take the compensation; and

(3) compensation is deposited in case of majority of the land holdings

[viz. setting apart the share of such persons and making it available for

them to take it], then, neither proceedings would lapse nor the

compensation will be required to be determined under the Act of 2013.

In substance, therefore, the legal situation would be akin to the one

contemplated under Section 24 [1][b] for all practical purposes. 12 17. It is submitted that during the drafting of the Bill, the legislative

intent and the apprehensions of the stakeholders in the acquisition

process is clearly depicted in 31st Report of the ‘Standing Committee on

Rural Development’ while discussing the ‘The Land Acquisition,

Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill, 2011’ which was the precursor to

the Act of 2013. The learned SG relied on extracts of the Standing

Committee Reports, the draft Bill, various comments from government

and public agencies and departments and other stakeholders, the

stage(s) during which amendments were proposed to the draft

provisions (of Section 24 ) and its culmination into the present form and

structure. 18. The learned SG argued that the amendments proposed by the

Minister while introducing the Bill - to incorporate an explanation, as

to what constitutes “deposit” was not accepted in the legislative wisdom

of the Lok Sabha and the Bill so passed consciously did not incorporate

the Explanation (in the form of Proviso to Section 24(2) ) providing for an

extensive and artificial meaning of the word paid. Further, reference to

“bank” account was also consciously not incorporated thereby leaving

the expression “to pay” and "to deposit" with its natural meaning and

leaving it to the discretion of the acquiring authorities to deposit the

compensation amount even in the treasury. It is possible that the

legislature may have considered the reality of 2012-13 where crores of

people did not have bank accounts. It was also urged that the rejection 13 of the amendment is in consonance with the apprehensions expressed

by other stakeholders and ministries at the said time. After the said Bill

was passed in the Lok Sabha, amendments were proposed and accepted

by the Rajya Sabha, giving the provision its final form. Further, it is

clear that the effort at the time was towards the drafting of a balancing

provision which protects the acquisitions from lapsing and at the same

time provides enhanced compensation under the new Act depending

upon the stage up to which the acquisition has progressed. This was

the genesis behind Section 24(1)(a) and proviso to Section 24(2) which

protect acquisitions from lapsing whilst providing for higher

compensation under the Act of 2013 to the land owners under limited

defined circumstances. It is submitted that it is necessary to read the

proviso to Section 24(2) along with the same provision and not Section

24(1)(b) as the former would be in accord with Parliamentary intent. 19. It was submitted that Section 24(2) intended a limited

retrospective operation: yet such retrospectivity operated and has to be

construed narrowly considering the nature and width of Section 24(2) and the drastic consequences flowing from it. It is submitted that the

field of retrospectivity to be given under Section 24 needs to be

considered in the context of legislative intention manifested from Section 114 of the Act of 2013 and Section 6 of the General Clauses Act,

1897. Both Section 114 (of the Act of 2013) and Section 6 of the 1897

Act clearly point to a narrow interpretation of Section 24 with the object 14 of saving on-going acquisition proceedings as far as possible. The

learned SG referred to the provisions of UK’s Interpretation Act, 1978;

he also relied on Bennion’s Statutory Interpretation Bennion’s Fifth

Edition, (2012) Indian Reprint, which reads as under: 20. Reliance was placed on Secretary of State for Social Security v

Tunnicliffe5, to the effect that: 21. It was urged that this Court, after assessing the unintended and

absurd results that an amendment may result in, purposefully

interpreted the provisions to be prospective in operation. It was also

emphasized that Section 24(2) is retrospective in nature and cannot be

held to be prospective; nevertheless, the extent of retrospectivity ought

to be narrowly construed while interpreting, given the harsh

consequences that it results in particularly against projects of public

interest. Reliance was placed on CIT v. Sarkar Builders8 . 22. It is submitted that apart from the above, this Court has

consistently ruled on principles guiding the retrospective operation of

statutes. Though there is no bar against retrospective operation yet this

Court considered the practical realities before analysing the extent of

retrospective operation of the statutes. Reliance in this regard is placed

7 (2004) 8 SCC 01 8 2015 (7) SCC 579 16 on Jawaharmal v. State of Rajasthan9 and Rai Ramkrishna v. State of

Bihar10 . 23. The learned SG next submitted that a spate of decisions of this

Court had followed the ratio in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra).

Emphasizing that the overall interpretation of Section 24 of the Act of

2013 has to accord with its scheme, it was stated that the object of that

provision was not only to declare that certain acquisitions lapsed.

Learned counsel, in this context, highlighted that Section 24 (1) (a) in

fact saves acquisition proceedings, where awards were not made before

the advent of the Act of 2013, by declaring that the award would be

made under that Act and compensation payable, in accordance with its

provisions. Section 24 (1) (b) on the other hand contemplates making of

award, under the old (LA) Act , but significantly states that all further

“proceedings” after the award would be taken under the new Act. It was

highlighted here, that Parliament clearly intended that the

compensation determined under the old Act had to be paid in terms of

the new Act, which is under Section 77. The learned SG submitted that

given these aspects, which are expressed in Section 24 (1) , the non

obstante clause and the following provisions of Section 24 (2) have to be

interpreted contextually, and in a purposive manner. It was submitted

that Parliament did not intend that settled matters should be undone,

and whatever had attained finality, in acquisition matters, should not

9 1966 (1) SCR 890
10 1964 (1) SCR 897 17 be re-opened. He cited the decisions of this Court reported as Southern

Electricity Supply Co. of Orissa Ltd. v. Sri Seetaram Rice Mill11; Tinsukhia

Electric Supply Company Ltd v. State Of Assam & Ors12 ; Commissioner

of Income Tax v. Hindustan Bulk Carriers13 ; D. Saibaba v. Bar Council of

India & Ors14 ; Balram Kamanat v. Union of India15; New India Assurance

Co. v. Nulli Nivelle16; Government of Andhra Pradesh & Ors v. Smt. P.

Laxmi Devi17 ; Entertainment Network (India) Ltd. v. Super Cassette

Industries Ltd.18 ; N. Kannadasan v. Ajoy Khose & Ors19 ; H.S Vankani v.

State of Gujarat,20 ; State of Madhya Pradesh v. Narmada Bachao

Andolan & Ors.21 24. It was submitted that hitherto, in accord with Pune Municipal

Corporation (supra) and Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. v. State of Tamil

Nadu22 most decisions had accepted that the expression “or”- (occurring

in Section 24 (2) ), where an award has been made under the old Act, 5

years before the commencement of the Act of 2013 “but the physical

possession of the land has not been taken or the compensation has not

been paid” – is to be read disjunctively, i.e., that if either condition is 11 (2012) 2 SCC 108 12 (1989) 3 SCC 709 @ para 118-121 13 (2003) 3 SCC 57 @ para 14-21 14 (2003) 6 SCC 186 para 16-18 15 (2003) 7 SCC 628 para 24 16 (2008) 3 SCC 279 @ para 51-54 17 (2008) 4 SCC 720 para 41 & 42 18 (2008) 13 SCC 30 para 132-137 19 (2009) 7 SCC 1 para 54-67 20 (2010) 4 SCC 301 para 43-48 21 (2011) 7 SCC 639 para 78-85 22 2015 (3) SCC 353 18 satisfied, the acquisition would lapse. However, submitted the learned

SG, the true and correct interpretation of the term “or” would be that it

ought to be construed as a conjunctive word. 25. Learned counsel next submitted that the expression “paid” should

be construed reasonably and not in a literal manner, as was done in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). Before the Act of 2013 was brought

into force, the modes of payment recognized by the law were: tendering

payment, payment into court in the event no one entitled to alienate the

property received it and payment into court upon disputes about the

entitlement to receive payment. These three situations were visualized

in Section 31 (2) of the old Act. It was emphasized that the consequence

of lapse of acquisition was never contemplated, in the event of refusal

to accept payment, or absence of anyone entitled to receive it, or in the

contingency of a dispute regarding entitlement to receive the amount.

This clearly meant that while payment of compensation was essential

and mandatory, the mode of payment was not mandatory. If, for

instance, the amount was tendered and not received, but instead, the

landowner refused it, the appropriate government could well deposit it

in the treasury, in accordance with prevailing financial rules, to

facilitate disbursement, as and when the landowner or the one entitled

to receive it, came forward and established entitlement. In such event,

the only consequence of non-deposit (in court, under Section 31 ) meant

that higher interest as mandated by Section 34 was to be paid. 19 26. The context of Section 24 , learned counsel urged, is to provide for

a transitory provision viz. to take care of the pending land acquisition

proceedings which are ongoing under the LA Act when the Act of 2013

is brought into force w.e.f. 1.1.2014. The purpose and object of making

this provision is to balance the competing rights of public projects vis-

à-vis holders of the land. The object and purpose was to ensure that

where acquisition proceedings under LA Act have reached an advanced

stage and investment of public money had already been made, firstly,

the lapsing of such ongoing projects should be avoided and secondly as

far as possible, the land owners also can, without disturbing the process

of acquisition, be given the compensation under the Act of 2013. 27. It was reiterated that the legislature knows about the ground

realities faced in land acquisition proceedings. There are very few cases

where one or two land parcels are acquired in isolation. Mostly,

acquisitions take place of bigger tracts of land involving more than one

parcel of land and more than one person “entitled to compensation”.

When Parliament provided for a transitory provision in relation to

acquisitions under the old Act, it did not contemplate the possibility of

the entire payment procedure to all being not processed given the

practical situations arising in all such proceedings. Parliament is also

presumed to be aware of the fact that in almost all cases of acquisition,

the proceedings are stiffly opposed and in most of the cases, the tender

of compensation is also opposed under a wrong and misplaced notion 20 that the acceptance of the tender may be treated as acquiescence with

the quantum being tendered. 28. The learned counsel argued that Parliament did not expect the

acquiring authority to perform an impossible task of forcing payment to

the land owners unwilling, for any reason to accept it. The legislature,

therefore, does not use the expression of the land owners having

“accepted” the payment. It merely uses the expression “paid”. The

legislature clearly tries to balance the rights of land owners only in one

contingency viz. in a post award scenario and the award having been

made five years prior to 1.1.2014, when the amount is not “deposited”

in the accounts of the majority of the beneficiaries. 29. It was urged that on a true construction and taking the literal,

natural and grammatical meaning of the provisions in the context referred above and keeping in mind the object it can safely be concluded

that the words “paid” and “deposit” are expressions of the same act

namely making the amount available (i.e. tendering) for being taken by

those entitled to it. It was urged that if this interpretation is not given

then the refusal by few persons or few persons being untraceable in the

acquisition of a vast tract of land would result in the drastic

consequence of lapsing of the acquisition proceedings. 30. It was urged by the learned ASG and Mr. Muthuraj, learned senior

counsel that the legislature cannot be presumed to intend such an 21 anomalous situation. The only way in which the object behind section

24 can be achieved is to give natural meaning to the words and

expressions used keeping the object in mind and treating the words

“paid” and “deposit” as connoting expression of the very same Act

depending upon the fact situation in each case. Learned counsel

submitted that by using the terms “paid” and “deposit”, Parliament

consciously left a leeway to save the drastic consequence of lapsing by

dealing with a particular situation in light of fact situation emerging in

each case. Not treating “paid” and “deposit” as synonymous or the

“deposit” so as to keep it available being the next step after “pay”, would

lead to disastrous situations as the acquiring authority may have

acquired vast tract of land and may have put substantial portion from

it to public use by constructing infrastructural projects. Such a

disastrous situation /consequence would never have been anticipated

or envisaged by the legislature. Learned counsel also referred to various

Standing Orders, framed as part of the financial code of several States,

which provided for procedure to deposit money in the treasury, when

landowners refused to accept compensation, or were untraceable, at the

time the amount was to be tendered. 31. It is submitted by the learned ASG that this Court should not

assume any omission or add or amend words to the statute. It is

submitted that plain and unambiguous construction has to be given

without addition and substitution of the words. It is submitted that 22 when a literal reading produces an intelligible result it is not open to

read words or add words to statute. In support of this proposition,

reliance was placed on some decisions23. It was therefore submitted

that the word “paid” does not and cannot mean actual de-facto payment

as it would amount to adding words which do not exist in the provision.

Similarly, the word “deposit” cannot mean “deposit in the Court” as that

was never the legislative intent nor can it be deduced from any accepted

interpretive process. 32. It was submitted that this Court, whilst interpreting Section 24 of

the Act of 2013, for the first time in Pune Municipal Corporation [supra]

and subsequent judgments, presumed that the word “paid” occurring

in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 would have to be interpreted as per Section 31 of the LA Act. It is submitted that the said presumption

neither has any justification nor any such justification is examined in

the said judgments. It is submitted that the said presumption has

resulted in grave consequences without ascertaining the conscious

omissions on the part of the Legislature. The learned SG illustrated how

the terms “paid” and “deposit” have been used in different senses under

the LA Act and in the Act of 2013. 33. Learned counsel submit that firstly, Section 31 of the LA Act is

pari materia to Section 77 of the Act of 2013. There is neither any 23 BALCO v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc., (2012) 9 SCC 552; Howard de Walden
(Lord) v. IRC, (1948) 2 All ER 825 (HL); V.L.S. Finance Ltd. v. Union of India , (2013) 6 SCC 278;
and Ram Narain v. State of U.P. , AIR 1957 SC 18. justification nor any requirement of interpreting Section 24 of the Act of

2013 in the shadow of Section 31 of the LA Act. It is submitted that if

as an alternative argument it is assumed that the expressions “paid”/

“tender” and the expression “deposited” have both been used

consciously in Section 31 , as is the reason of drafting Section 24(2) , an

anomalous situation occurs. In the proviso to Section 24(2) of the Act of

2013, expression used is compensation has not been “deposited” “in the

account of the beneficiaries", which is separate from the “deposit in

Court” envisaged under Section 31(2) of the LA Act. It is submitted that

the expression “bank account” has not been used in Section 31 of the

LA Act at all and the expression “in the Court” has not been used in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 at all. The said omissions carry weight

and cannot be ignored. 34. It is urged that if Section 24 of the Act of 2013 intended to attract

the rigours and technicalities of Section 31 of the LA Act, it would have

used the requisite phrase. It is submitted that the term Section 31 of the

LA Act is conspicuous by its absence in Section 24 of the Act of 2013.

Parliament intentionally used the phrases “paid” and “deposit” not in

terms of their meanings under Section 31 so as to avoid the rigours of

the said provision and to keep the practical exigencies of land

acquisition in mind, more particularly when Section 24 of the Act of

2013 is merely a transitory provision. It was argued that it is a settled

canon of interpretation that when the Legislature uses two different 24 phrases, the meaning they carry would be different. Harbhajan Singh v.

Press Council of India,24 is relied on. 35. It is submitted that Section 24(1) begins with a non-obstante

clause, providing for a limited overriding effect of the LA Act in case of

the contingencies mentioned in Section 24 (a) and (b). Section 24 (1) (a) contemplates that where land acquisition proceedings were initiated

under the LA Act but no award was passed till the date the new Act

came into force viz. 1.1.2014, acquisition proceedings could continue,

however compensation will have to be determined under the Act of

2013. Section 24 (1) (b) provides that where an award under Section 11 of the LA Act has been made, the entire proceedings would continue

under the Act of 1894, as if it were not repealed. Section 24(2) provides

for an exclusionary clause which mandates the land acquisition

proceedings to be lapsed and initiated de novo. 36. It was submitted that the requirements for lapsing (of acquisition)

in Section 24(2) , are subject to an award under Section 11 of the LA Act

being made five years prior to the commencement of the Act of 2013 viz.

1.1.2014. If the award is made and the following two situations

occurred, the proceedings will lapse; one, physical possession has not

been taken or (to be read as "and") and two, compensation has not been

paid. 24 (2002) 3 SCC 722 25 37. Elaborating on the expressions “paid”/“tender” it was urged by

learned counsel that the meaning of expression “tender" is that when a

person has tendered the amount and made it unconditionally available

and the landowner has refused to receive it, the person who has

tendered the amount cannot be saddled with the liability, which is to be

visited for non-payment of the amount. Reliance is placed on the

meaning of the term in Black’s Law Dictionary. 38. It is apparent from aforesaid that "tender” may save the tendering

party from the penalty for non-payment or non-performance if another

party is unjustifiably refusing the tender. The expression “paid" would

mean in Section 31(1) of the LA Act and Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013

as soon as it is offered and made unconditionally available. Merely, if a

landowner refuses to accept it, it cannot be said that it has not been

paid. Once amount has been tendered that would amount to payment.

Thus, the term “paid” does not mean actual payment to be made but

whatever is possible for an incumbent to make the payment is only

contemplated. "Paid” does not mean receipt or deposited in court. There

may be refusal to receive an amount in spite of its tender. Thus, in view

of the decisions of this Court in Benares State Bank Ltd.v.CIT, 25

Collector of Central Excise v. Elphinstone Spg.&Wvg.Mills Co.Ltd.26 and 25 ( 1969) 2 SCC 316
26 (1971)1 SCC 337 26 J.Dalmia v Commissioner of Income Tax27 , the provisions of Section 24(2) should be construed as tender of the amount. 39. It is submitted that the three Judge Bench in judgment in Pune

Municipal Corporation (supra), while deciding the expression

"compensation has not been paid", held that for the purposes of Section

24(2) , the compensation shall be regarded as "paid”: 40. It was argued that the conclusion in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) that deposit of the amount of compensation in the Government

treasury cannot amount to the said sum (amount of compensation)

“paid” to the landowners or persons interested. This view was taken

without dwelling on the legal connotation of the expression “paid” in Section 24(2) . In the process, it has also not taken into account the

binding law as held in Dalmia 's case and Benares State Bank's case.

Though Section 34 of the LA Act was mentioned in passing para 16,

however it has not at all been considered. It is a very crucial provision,

which deals with the consequences of compensation not having been

27 (1964) 53 ITR 83 [AIR 1964 SC 1866] 27 deposited. Further, submit counsel, the matter relates to payment of

compensation from out of Government funds. Handling of Government

funds has to be strictly in accordance with the Standing Orders issued

by the States. The effect of those Standing Orders has also not been

considered in the judgment in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). The

said judgment, therefore, having been rendered without taking into

consideration the aforesaid judgments, Section 34 of the LA Act and the

Standing Orders is, in the submission of the counsel, per incuriam. 41. It is submitted that another aspect which arises is, whether

prejudice or injustice would be caused in case the amount is not

deposited in the court and is deposited in the treasury, particularly

when the provision contained in Section 31 of the LA Act has to be read

conjointly with those in Section 34 . By reason of Section 34 , (of the LA

Act ) one could claim interest - at a higher rate in case amounts were not

deposited under Section 31(2) if the authorities were at fault. 42. Arguing about whether the expression “or” should be read as

conjunctive or disjunctive, it was argued that after the stage of section

11 under the LA Act , there are two possibilities. The requisite authority

may take possession of the land in terms of Section 16 of the LA Act or

the said authority may proceed to tender payment under Section 31 of

the LA Act. The said two possibilities may be conducted simultaneously

or one after the other, there is no embargo in the LA Act regarding the

same. 43. It is submitted that Section 24(2) , while providing for lapsing, uses

the two phrases concerning possession of the land and the tendering of

payment with the disjunctive word “or" thereby making it mandatory for

the acquiring authority to satisfy both contingencies in order to avoid

lapsing. It is submitted that the same would be against the legislative

intention of limited lapsing. Further, the said interpretation would be

against the purport of the possession and the title "being vested” in the

acquiring authority by virtue of the interpretation of section 16 in the LA Act [as dealt with the latter part of the submissions]. It is submitted

that the intention of the Legislature could not have been to divest the

acquiring authority of the land after the said has been vested "free from

all encumbrances". In line with the same, it is submitted that the word

"or" may be read as "and" so as to limit the lapsing only in cases where

both, payment has not been made (subject to proviso) and possession

has not been taken. 44. Reliance is placed on the judgments reported as Ishwar Singh

Bindra v State of UP28 , where this Court approved and extracted

passages from Maxwell on Interpretation and Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary

to the effect that generally, the conjunctive “and” is used in a cumulative

sense, requiring the fulfilment of all the conditions that it joins together,

and herein it is the antithesis of "or" and that however, sometimes, even

in such a connection, it is, by force of its contents, read as "or". 28 1969 (1) SCR 219 29 Similarly, Maxwell accepted that "to carry out the intention of the

legislature it is occasionally found necessary to read the conjunctions 'or'

and 'and' one for the other". Learned counsel also relied on Mobilox

Innovations (P) Ltd v Kirusa Software (P) Ltd29 which held that: 45. Highlighting that the placement of the proviso (following Section

24 (2) ) is significant, and not accidental, it was argued that the field of

operation of the proviso is immediately preceding provision, i.e. Section

24 (2) and not Section 24 (1) (b) . It is submitted that the proviso to Section 24 (2) contemplates a situation where with respect to majority

of the holdings, compensation not deposited in the account of

landowners (even though there being tendering of payment to all land

29(2018)1SCC 353
30Brown v Harrison 1927 All ER 195 @ pp. 203, 204 (CA); Ranchhodddas Atmaram & Anr v
Union of India 1961 (3) SCR 718; State of Bombay v R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala 1957 (1) SCR
874 (hereafter “RMDC”); Patel Chunibhai Dajibha v Narayanrao , 1965 (2) SCR 328; Punjab
Produce & Trading Co. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal , 1971 SCR 977; Ishwar
Singh Bindra & Ors v State of UP 1969 (1) SCR 219; Joint Director of Mines Safety v Tandur
and Nayandgi Stone Quarries (P0 Ltd 1987 (3) SCC 308; Samee Khan v Bindu Khan 1998 (7)
SCC 59. Prof. Yashpal & Ors v State of Chhatisgarh & Ors 2005 (5) SCC 420 30 owners and physical possession being taken), the benefits of the Act of

2013 qua the compensation would follow. It is argued that if the said

proviso is not interpreted to be a proviso to Section 24(2) , a valuable

benefit extended by Parliament would evaporate. Learned counsel

contended that the said proviso provides for enhanced benefit even if

the twin conditions of Section 24 (2) are met. Therefore, the said proviso

saves the land acquisition and furthers the purpose and the object of

giving benefit of computation of compensation to all landholders.

Therefore, it is evident that the proviso is appropriately treated as a

proviso to Section 24 (2) and cannot be read as proviso to Section 24 (1) (b) of the Act of 2013. It was argued that Parliamentary intent is clearly

discernible, because of the colon (a punctuation mark) occurring at the

end of Section 24 (2) , which means that the proviso constitutes an

exception to that provision. Reference was made to Aswini Kumar Ghosh

& Anr v Arabinda Bose & Anr31 (where it was held that "...Punctuation is

after all a minor element in the construction of a statute and very little

attention is paid to it by English Courts. ......When a statute is

carefully punctuated and there is doubt about its meaning, a weight

should undoubtedly be given to the punctuation."). Reliance was also

placed on Jamshed Guzdar v State of Maharastra.32 46. It was argued by Ms. Pinky Anand, learned ASG, that payment of

compensation is not a sine qua non for vesting in terms of Section 16 of

31 1953 SCR 1
32 2005 (2) SCC 591 31 the old LA Act . It is urged, in this context, that the old Act did not

provide any time line for depositing compensation; nor even for taking

over of possession. Ordinarily, the repeal provision under the Act of

2013 (Section 114) would prevail; however, Section 24 carves out an

important, albeit a limited scope from the repeal clause. Section 24 (2) freshly introduces the concept of lapsing, in relation to acquisitions that

were initiated under the old Act. Necessarily, lapsing is to be considered

as a narrow concept. Supporting the learned SG’s argument that “or” is

to be read conjunctively, she highlighted that by reason of Section 16 of

the old Act, title vested in the State, upon taking of possession.

Divesting under old Act was impermissible. It was urged that were the

court to accept an interpretation, that either non-payment of

compensation, or taking of possession – under Section 24 (2) , would

result in lapsing of acquisition, as held in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and other decisions, land vested in the State, and conveyed to

third parties (either as allottees of housing schemes or public sector

undertakings, for one development project or another, or for public

purposes such as construction of roads, bridges and other public works)

would be divested. 47. Under Section 16 of the LA Act once award is made and possession

of land is taken, then the land vests absolutely with the Government.

Therefore, the word deemed to lapse in Section 24(2) should not be

interpreted to mean divesting of land from the Government which is 32 already vested in the Government and moreover in the absence of any

provision of divesting in the 1894 Act. In this context, the observations

in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar 33 that the legislature is

presumed to be acquainted with the construction which the courts have

put upon the words, and when legislature repeats the same words. This

Court had, in that judgment, quoted with approval the previous decision

in Sri K.C Gajapati Narayan Deo v, State of Orissa34 that

 "Section of the Act empowers the State Government to
 declare, by notification, that the estate described in the
 notification has vested in the State free from all
 encumbrances. ….. The consequences of vesting ether by Issue of
 notification or as a result of surrender are described in detail in Section 5 of the Act. It would be sufficient for our present purpose
 to state that the primary consequence is that all lands comprised
 in the estate including communal lands, non-ryoti lands, waste
 and trees orchards pasture lands, forests, mines and
 minerals, quarries, rivers and streams, tanks, water channels,
 fisheries, ferries, hats and bazars, and buildings or structures
 together with the land on which they stand shall, subject to the
 other provisions of the Act, vest absolutely in the State
 Government free from all encumbrances and the intermediary
 shall cease to have any interest in them.”

 Learned counsel also relied on the judgment of this Court in Jagannath Temple Managing Committee v. Siddha Math 35, at para 53,

that “it is a settled principle of law that once a property is vested by an

Act of legislature, to achieve the laudable object, the same cannot be

divested by the enactment of any subsequent general law and vest such

property under such law." 48. It was urged that serious consequences arise when condition nos. (ii) and (iii) are to be read as not conjunctive or disjunctive. The word

33 (1955) 2 SCR 603
34 1954 SCR 11
35 (2015) 16 SCC 542 @ para 53 33 used to connect these two conditions is "or"; if it is not read

conjunctively, disastrous consequence leading to absurd result would

emanate. Once possession is taken over vesting occurs under Section

16 of the LA Act. Section 24(2) contains no stipulation that such vesting

of title of land stands nullified or divested. If the intention of Parliament

was to divest the State of its title that had to be stated in plain and clear

language. It was emphasized that the conjunctive use of “or” in Section

24 (2) would have not only momentous consequences to the State, but

innocent third parties, who would be exposed to the risk of being

divested title to the lands and properties, perfected by them, as allottees

or subsequent purchasers. Merely because a person who has received

compensation clungs on to the possession of the land and the same

shall lead to lapsing cannot be the intention of Parliament. Similarly,

one who received compensation, is not obliged to return the money to

the State in the event of lapsing under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013.

It was urged, therefore, that absence of provision to return the

compensation received to Government convincingly points to

Parliamentary intent that "or" should be read as "and"; thus, only if

neither possession is taken (of acquired lands) nor is compensation

paid, (i.e., tendered to the party or parties) would the acquisition under

the LA Act lapse. Learned counsel also relied on several decisions in this

context.36

36Northern Indian Glass Industries v. Jaswant Singh and Ors., (2003) 1 SCC 335; Gulam
Mustafa v. State of Maharashtra, (1976) 1 SCC 800; Sita Ram Bhandar Society, New Delhi v. 34 49. It was highlighted by M/s Bhangde, Mr. Rajesh Mahale, and Ms.

Shashi Kiran, that the consequence of literally interpreting Section 24

(2) as to mean that the conditions are disjunctive (either that “or” should

be read as such) are too drastic and severe. Learned counsel pointed

out that as a result of allegations of non-payment of compensation,

lands which had been vested in the State and were subsequently made

over to the requisitioning agencies, and in respect of which title had

passed multiple times to other parties, now are exposed to the threat of

divesting of title. Learned counsel submitted that a deeming fiction

cannot be taken to this extent; such disastrous consequences could not

have been attributed by Parliament, because even if such were the

intent, there has to be a mechanism to restitute those likely to be

affected. Besides, the legality of such a law, divesting or taking away the

title of such innocent third-party purchasers, would be suspect,

because there is absolutely no provision for restitution or any form of

compensation in their favour. 50. On the question relating to the mode of taking possession, it was

argued that when the State is involved in taking possession of the

property acquired, it can take possession by drawing a panchnama. The

normal rule of State possessing the land through some persons would

not be applicable in such cases. On open land, possession is deemed to

Lieutenant Governor, Government of NCT, Delhi and Ors., (2009) 10 SCC 501 and
Chandragauda Ramgonda Patil and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra and Ors., (1996) 6 SCC 405 35 be of the owner. The way the State takes possession of large chunk of

property acquired is by drawing a memorandum of taking possession

as State is not going to put other persons in possession or its police

force or going to cultivate it or start residing or physically occupy it after

displacing who were physically in possession as in the case of certain

private persons, in case they re-enter in possession of open land, start

cultivation or residing in the house. Lawful possession is deemed to be

of the State. A number of decisions that accepted the mode of drawing

panchnama by the State consistently to be a mode of taking possession

were cited. In Banda Development Authority v. Moti Lal Agarwal37 this

Court observed that preparing a panchnama is sufficient to constitute

taking of possession. If acquisition is of a large tract of land, it may not

be possible to take physical possession of each and every parcel of the

land and it would be sufficient that symbolic possession is taken by

preparing an appropriate document in the presence of independent

witnesses and getting their signatures. Even subsequent utilisation of

a portion of acquired land for public purpose was still sufficient to prove

taking possession. 51. It is submitted that when the State acquires land and has drawn

memorandum of taking possession that is the way the State takes

possession of large tract of land acquired, it ought not necessarily to

physically occupy such land after forcefully displacing those physically

37 (2011)5 SCC 394 (hereafter referred to as “Banda Development Authority”) 36 in possession. Possession in law is deemed to be physical possession

for the State. This Court in a number of decisions has accepted the

mode of drawing panchnama by the State consistently to be a mode of

taking possession. It is submitted that this Court in T.N. Housing

Board v. A. Viswam38 held that recording of memorandum/panchnama

by the Land Acquisition Officer in the presence of witnesses signed by

them would constitute taking possession of land. Also, reliance is placed on other decisions.39 52. Dealing next with the manner by which the period covered by an

interim order of Court ought to be excluded for the purpose of

applicability of Section 24 (2) of the Act of 2013, it is argued that a

settled proposition of law is that an act of a Court should not prejudice

any party. In view of the maxim actus curae neminem gravabit or even

in its absence, any interim order granted by the court cannot prejudice

any rights of the parties. It is argued that for a proper working of the

justice delivery system, once the court passes an order staying

dispossession, the State cannot take possession of the land. If an order

of the Court disables a person to take any action, the doctrine nemo

tentur ad impossible would be applicable that is, the law in general

excuses a party which is disabled to perform a duty and impossibility of

performance of a duty is a good excuse. Further, the Latin maxim lexnon

38( 1996) 8 SCC 259
39Balwant Narayan Bhagde v. M.D. Bhagwat , (1976) 1 SCC 700; State of T.N. v. Mahalakshmi
Ammal , (1996) 7 SCC 269; T.N. Housing Board v. A. Viswam , (1996) 8 SCC 259 and Om
Prakash Verma & Ors. v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors, (2010) 13 SCC 158. 37 cogitad impossibilia, that is, the law does not compel a man to do that

which he cannot possibly perform. Since, it becomes impossible for the

State to take possession, for the duration a stay or interim order is in

operation, the consequence of an interim order cannot be used against

the State. Reliance for this legal position is placed on the judgments in A.R. Antulay vs R.S.Nayak & Ors40 , Sarah Mathew v Institute of Cardio

Vascular Diseases41 and in Dau Dayal v State of U.P42 . In A.R.Antulay (supra) it was held that no party is prejudiced by the court's mistake.

Therefore, urged counsel, in cases where conduct of acquisition

proceedings were held up after the passing of an award, due to the

interim order of any court, in the absence of any specific provision to

that effect, a party who cannot perform its duties, and but for the order,

could have performed its stipulated task, within the time assigned,

should not be placed at a disadvantage, as that would amount to

granting a premium for one’s wrongdoing, or rank speculation. It is

urged, therefore, that it is imperative that the period during which the

State or the acquiring authority was prohibited/ injuncted by an interim

order of the court from taking possession has to be excluded. This

principle, submit learned counsel, is based on settled common law

principles. These are in fact rules of equity, justice and sound logic. In

the absence of their being a prohibition in the law these principles would

be attracted. The efficacy and binding nature of such common law

40 1988 Suppl (1) SCR 01
41 2014 (2) SCC 62
42 1959 Supp (1) SCR 639 38 principles cannot be diminished or whittled down in the absence of any

express prohibition in law. Coupled with the aforesaid principle is also

a principle of restitution. An interim order passed by the Court merges

into the final decision, goes against the party successful at the interim

stage. Unless otherwise ordered by the court, the successful party at

the end of the litigation would be justified in being placed in the same

place in which it would have been, had the interim order not been

passed. Undoing the effect of an interim order by resorting to the

principle of restitution is in fact an obligation of the court. The above

principles have been culled out and applied by this Court in the

judgment in South Eastern Coal Field Ltd v State of M.P. & Ors.43 .

Learned counsel argued that general common law rules of equity,

justice and sound logic would certainly apply. It is submitted that

similarly, the doctrine of restitution has been discussed in several other

judgments of this Court including State of Gujarat v Essar Oil Ltd44 . It

is, thus, submitted that the mere absence of an express provision under Section 24(2) – to exclude the period during which an interim order

operates, which prevents the making of an award, or taking over of

possession of acquired land, would not in law imply that such

restitutionary and equitable principles would be inapplicable.

Contentions on behalf of landowners 43 2003 SCC 648
44 2012 (3) SCC 522 39 53. Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel, led the arguments on

behalf of landowners. He urged that the Act of 2013 is a new,

transformative and radical measure. The new law is a welfare state law,

not a colonial law - unlike the Act of 1894. Mr. Divan submitted that

the Act of 1894 resulted in several rounds of repeated litigation on

various aspect, such as payment of compensation, lack of legislatively

mandated timelines for completion of acquisition proceedings, etc. This

also resulted in amendments to the Act of 1894 (notably, the

amendments of 1967 and 1984) which, to some extent, sought to grant

relief to landowners. However, these too got mired in litigation. Learned

counsel relied on the judgments, reported as Dev Sharan v State of Uttar

Pradesh45 and Radhey Shyam v State of UP46 . Repeated litigation was

the result of an unfair legal regime. It was submitted that such

judgments of this Court highlighted that the Act of 1894 was enacted

more than 116 years ago to facilitate acquisition of land and immovable

properties for construction of roads, canals, railways, etc. This law was

frequently used in the post-independence era for different public

purposes like laying of roads, construction of bridges, dams and

buildings of various public establishments/institutions, planned

development of urban areas, providing of houses to different sections of

the society and for developing residential colonies/sectors. In the recent

years, there is acquisition of large tracts of land in rural parts of the

45 (2011) 4 SCC 769
46 (2011) 5 SCC 553 40 country in the name of development and their transfer to private

entrepreneurs, who utilize it to construction of multi-storied complexes,

commercial centres and for setting up industrial units. Similarly, large

scale acquisitions were made on behalf of companies by invoking the

provisions contained in Part VII of the Act . Resultantly, such acquisition

led to deprivation of the source of livelihood of land owners, engaged in

agricultural operations and other ancillary activities in rural areas. A

large number of these people are unaware of, and unable to assert their

rights, and secure fair compensation. The unrest and inequity which

arose out of these deprivations, impelled the State to enact a modern

law, which ensured not only fair compensation, but other rights such

as rehabilitation, employment, higher solatium and a guarantee against

deprivation of certain kinds of lands. Thus, the Act of 2013 ushered a

new regime that starts from a fresh direction. Learned counsel also

relied on Bharat Sewak Samaj v. Lieutnant Governor & Ors.,47 to say that

the provisions of the Act of 1894 were outdated and were misused and

were oppressive to the interest of the landowners. Hence, the Act of

2013 was enacted and that this Court ought to interpret in the spirit of

the new beneficial legislation. Learned counsel urged that the benefits

so conferred should not be taken away by this Court by narrowly

interpreting its provisions. 47 2012 (12) SCC 675 41 54. Mr. Divan relied on the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the

Act of 2013 to say that the new law was framed, in recognition of

concerns expressed by the property owners of forcible acquisition

without following due process and without paying appropriate

compensation affecting livelihood of such owners, many times, who are

small property owners or persons having small agricultural holdings

and having been dependant on the said holdings, the new Act is made. The Act aims to provide just and fair compensation, make adequate

provision for rehabilitation and resettlement for the affected persons in

the family, determination of compensation package on scientific

methods. It was urged that being a welfare legislation, the Act of 2013

constitutes a wholesome rejection of the colonial approach. Learned

counsel urged that under the new Act, unlike the Act of 1894, a Social

Impact Assessment (SIA) report has to be prepared, under Section 7 , as

an integral component of acquisition proceedings. If acquisition is not

resorted to, in a time frame, the acquisition lapses; likewise, the new

Act contemplates the preparation of a rehabilitation scheme, which

would note the (a) particulars of lands and immovable properties being

acquired of each affected family; (b) livelihoods lost in respect of landless

who are primarily dependent on the lands being acquired; (c) a list of

public utilities Government buildings, amenities and infrastructural

facilities which are affected or likely to be affected, where resettlement

of affected families is involved and (d) details of any common property

resources being acquired. 55. Learned senior counsel argued that Section 24 constitutes an

exception to the general rule, i.e., lapsing of all acquisition proceedings,

by reason of repeal of the Act of 1894, and operation of Section 114.

Therefore, Section 24 has to be given effect to strictly, given that

Parliamentary intent was to ensure that acquisition proceedings did not

result in oppression and hardship. It was argued that having regard to

this salient feature, the provision ( Section 24 ) should be literally

construed. Learned counsel submitted that the objective of new Act

must be kept in mind to understand the scope of Sections 11 , 11 (A) , 12 , 31 and 34 of the 1894 Act, on the one hand, and provisions of

Section of 24 of the Act of 2013 on the other. Furthermore, it was argued

that the non-obstante clause must be allowed to operate with full vigour

in its own field. It was stressed that such a provision is equivalent to

saying that in spite of the provision or Act mentioned in the non-

obstante clause, the enactment following it, will have its full operation

of that, the provision indicated in the non-obstante clause will not be an

impediment for the operation of the enactment. Decisions in this regard

were cited by counsel.48 56. Mr. Divan relied upon the three stages preceding the Act of 2013

to urge that there was no doubt in the mind of Parliament, that lapsing

of acquisition proceedings was intended to ensue, in the event

48Madhav Rao Scindhia v. Union of India 1971 (1) SCC 85 (11 Judges); Smt. Parayankandiyal
Eravath v. K. Devi (1996) 4 SCC 76 (2 Judges). compensation were not paid; or possession were not taken, in respect

of awards made five years prior to coming into force of the Act of 2013.

It was argued that Section 24 should be given a plain and literal

construction, except to the extent that the term “paid” occurring in Section 24(2) would also cover cases where a deposit is made before the

Reference Court in situations covered by Section 31(2) of the 1894 Act.

Elaborating on this, it is urged that the first decision of this Court, i.e., Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) took note of Section 24(2) in the

context of a pre-existing law. The Court was alive to the fact that under

the Act of 1894, where payment of compensation was tendered and the

land owner refused to accept the amount, the State is nevertheless

obliged to ensure that at all times, the amount should be made

available, in a place or an account, not within its control. It was urged,

therefore, that actual tender of the amount of compensation is a sine

qua non for the act of payment to be completed. It was considered that

in that event, the land owner does not accept the amount, it should be

deposited with the Court, a neutral and independent authority to whom

the land owner or anyone claiming under him can approach and draw

the amount. It was submitted that this obligation cannot be brushed

aside because aside from the question of acceptance of compensation

without prejudice, even at a later stage, the land owner might wish to

reconsider the compensation and avail of the amount. 44 57. Learned counsel submitted that the obligation to deposit the

amount in the Reference Court is an independent and absolute one in

that it is irrespective of whether the land owner sought a reference for

higher compensation to the Court (under the Act of 1894). Learned

counsel urged this Court to accept this interpretation, which according

to him, would give full effect to the intention of Parliament, i.e., to save

intention of Parliament. It was again highlighted that Parliamentary

intention was firstly to repeal the previous law to a limited extent and

save ongoing acquisition proceedings – in terms of Section 24(1) and

usher a new regime, i.e. Section 24(2) whereby indolence on the part of

the State agencies either with respect to payment of compensation or

with respect to taking over of possession, resulting in the lapse of

acquisition proceedings itself. Learned counsel relied upon the

decisions of this Court which followed and applied the law declared in

Pune Municipal Corporation 49. 58. It was argued that the submissions on behalf of the State and the

development authorities that “payment” included deposit with the

treasury or some other authority other than the Reference Court, could

49 Bharat Kumar v State of Haryana (2014) 6 SCC 586 (hereafter “Bharat Kumar”); Bimla Devi
v State of Haryana (2014) 6 SCC 583 @ para 3; Union of India v Shiv Raj (2014) 6 SCC 564 at
para 22; Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra) at para 14; State of Haryana v Vinod
Oil and General Mills 2014 (15) SCC 410 at para 21; Sita Ram v State of Haryana (2015) 3
SCC 597 at paras 19, 21; Ram Kishan v State of Haryana (2015) 4 SCC 347 at paras 8, 9, 12; Velaxan Kumar v Union of India 2015 (4) SCC 325 at paras 15, 16, 17 (hereafter “Velaxan”); Karnail Kaur v State of Punjab (2015) 3 SCC 206 at paras 17, 18, 23; Rajive Chowdhrie HUF
v State (NCT) of Delhi (2015) 3 SCC 541 at para 1; Competent Automobiles Co. Ltd v Union of
India AIR 2015 SC 3186 at para 4; Govt of NCT of Delhi v Jagjit Singh AIR 2015 SC 2683 at
para 3; Karan Singh v State of Haryana 2014 (5) SCC 738 at para 5; Shashi Gupta & Ors. v.
State of Haryana 2016 (13) SCC 380 at para 5; Delhi Development Authority v Sukhbir Singh (2016) 16 SCC 258 at para 1 (hereafter “Sukhbir”). not have been termed as compliance with the Act of 1894. Here, it was

urged that Parliament was acutely alive of the fact that the previous

land acquisition regime resulted in injurious and unconscionable delays

in payment of compensation. Furthermore, even after awards were

made, possession was never taken. This led to a great deal of

uncertainty as far as the land owners were concerned because they

could not move ahead in their life without compensation nor could they

take any steps to acquire new lands or properties. It was precisely to

address this mischief, rather a widespread one, that the Parliament

wished to enact a “bright line approach” whereby all acquisitions which

did not culminate either in payment of compensation or taking over of

possession in respect of awards made five or more years prior to

1.1.2014 had to lapse. It was submitted that Section 24(1) provided a

limited window in that it saved some acquisitions, i.e., notably where

awards had been made but further proceedings had not been taken or

where awards had not been made in both cases less than 5 years prior

to 1.1.2014. It was only in these two limited instances that acquisition

proceedings were allowed to continue or preserved. Thus, Parliamentary

intent was that in cases of all awards made five years or more prior to

the coming into force of the Act, if compensation was not paid or

possession of the acquired land not taken, automatically, as a matter of

law there was to be a lapse (of such acquisitions). This legal

consequence crystallised and was in consonance with the other

provisions of the Act of 2013. Arguing that if one were to take into 46 account this perspective, there can be no doubt that the expression

“paid” cannot mean anything other than tendering of compensation and

in the event of its refusal, or the three contingencies contemplated

under Section 31(2) of the Act of 1894, it is deposited in Court. If these

eventualities were not fulfilled and the amounts were merely kept back

with the Government by it, any compliance with some norms evolved as

part of the treasury or financial code there could have been no payment

or deposit in the eyes of law. Learned counsel submitted that this Court

should affirm the decision in Sukhbir Singh. It was also submitted that

unless Section 31 of the 1894 Act which postulates the performance of

a public duty in a particular manner and (through stipulated three

eventualities), such duty could be said to be fulfilled only and only if

that procedure were followed. Learned counsel relied upon the

judgment in Bharat Kumar, which noted that Section 24(2) has a

beneficial intent and begins with a non-obstante clause. Therefore,

urged counsel, literal meaning is to be preferred. It was highlighted that Section 24(2) achieved a two-fold purpose, i.e., to preserve acquisition

proceedings initiated before the commencement of the Act and secondly,

conferring rights upon the land owners and other parties which did not

hitherto exist. Since these rights relate to the right to property which is

guaranteed by Article 300A of the Constitution, full effect must be given

to them rather than the construction which would destroy its very 47 purpose. In support of this argument, learned counsel relied upon Union

of India v. Shivraj 50. 59. Learned counsel submitted that the decision in Pune Municipal

Corporation (supra) was itself conscious of Section 31 and the

contingencies or eventualities contemplated under Section 31(2) . That

apart, it also relied upon Ivo Agnelo Santimano Fernandes v. State of

Goa51 , to say that the State cannot be – in the event of non-acceptance

of the compensation by the land owner or its inability to locate the land

owner or in the event of a dispute – keep the compensation amount with

itself and claim it to be part of same general treasury amount and

proceed to utilise it. It was submitted that precisely to deal with this

practice, the appeal provided that non-payment of compensation – and

in the event of any of the contingencies accruing in Section 31(2) of the

1894 Act, the failure to deposit it with the Reference Court would result

in lapse of entire acquisition itself. It was submitted that this

interpretation is not only literal but followed the objective and purpose

sought to be achieved by the Parliament through the provision. Learned

counsel urged this Court that the literal interpretation in this case

would also accrue with an equitable interpretation and ensure that the

real benefit of the new law would accrue to land owners deprived of their

properties and livelihoods for long periods without payment of

50 (2014) 6 SCC 564. 51 (2011) 11 SCC 506 48 compensation. Learned counsel, therefore, urged that the beneficial

interpretation adopted by this Court in Velaxan Kumar (supra) should

be accepted. Rajive Chowdhurie HUF (supra)52, it was argued, while

interpreting Section 24 of the Act of 2013 Act, the Court should not in

the guise of an interpretative exercise don the cap of a legislature. It was

submitted as to the State’s argument that the disjunctive “or” in Section

24(2) should not be read as conjunctive “and”. It was argued in this

regard that in all the three drafts that the Bill (which ultimately

culminated in the Act of 2013) went through53, the expression used

consistently was “but the physical possession”. In the three stages, the

intent was to normally ensure that the acquisition proceedings pending

for a long time were to lapse. It was emphasised that in the first version,

i.e., the Bill introduced on 5.9.2011, all acquisitions were deemed to

have lapsed regardless of whether the award was made or not, if

possession were not taken and also in those cases where the awards

were not made. Therefore, this Court should be cautious in interpreting

the disjunctive “or” in any manner other than in the literal sense. 60. The three broad situations covered under Section 24 are (i) cases

where the land acquisition process shall be deemed to have lapsed; (ii)

cases where the landholders are entitled to compensation in accordance

52 (2015) 3 SCC 541
53 Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill 2011 – introduced in Lok
Sabha on 05.07.2011; Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition
Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill, 2013 as passed by the Lok Sabha on 29.08.2013 and
the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act 2013 (as passed by both Houses of Parliament on 05.09.2013). 49 with the provisions of the Act of 2013; and (iii) cases where the land

acquisition proceedings continue under the 1894 Act as if it had not

been repealed. It was urged that the first set of cases are covered by Section 24(2) . The two conditions to be fulfilled as on 1.1.2014 to trigger

the deeming provision into operation, according to Mr. Divan, are firstly,

there must be an award under section 11 of the 1894 Act which has

been made five years or more prior to the commencement of the Act of

2013 (i.e., an award made on or before 1.1.2009); and secondly either

physical possession of the land has not been taken from the landowner

or compensation had not been paid as required under the Act of 1894. 61. It was argued that the second set of cases, where enhanced

compensation has to be paid, under the Act of 2013, are covered under Section 24(1) and the proviso to Section 24 . Section 24(1) provides that

where proceedings have not reached the stage of an award under section 11 of the 1894 Act, the provisions to determine compensation

under the Act of 2013 apply. Further, the proviso to Section 24 provides

for compensation in terms of the Act of 2013 where the following

conditions are fulfilled, firstly an award has been made under section

11 of the 1894 Act; and secondly, compensation in respect of the

majority of the land holdings has not been paid to the landowners. It

was submitted that the “majority” is required to be reckoned with

reference to the award passed under the Act of 1894, and that awards

contemplated by the proviso are awards made within the period of five 50 years prior to the commencement of the Act of 2013 i.e., awards made

between 1.1.2009 and 31.12.2013. 62. Learned counsel stated that the third set of cases is where the

land owners do not get any benefit under the Act of 2013 and the

acquisition proceeds under the provisions of the Act of 1894. It was

argued that these cases are covered by section 24(1)(b) and to which

neither section 24 (2) nor the proviso applies. This covers situations

where though an award has been passed five years prior to the

commencement of the Act, neither of the conditions for deemed lapsing

are present. Mr. Divan urged that the provisions of the Act of 1894 will

continue to apply without any benefit in terms of increased

compensation where an award is passed within 5 years of the

commencement of the Act of 2013 but the majority of landholders have

been paid. 63. Mr. Divan then urged that this understanding of the provisions of Section 24 is based on established rules of interpretation i.e., first, the

golden rule of interpretation requiring the Court to interpret statutory

provisions literally. Second, the rule of purposive interpretation was to

be used, having regard to the object of the enactment, the purpose of

the law in seeking to correct historical injustices and the legislative

intent to confer the benefit of the Act of 2013 on certain landholders

affected by the regime under the Act of 1894. The third rule to be

employed, is the rule of harmonious interpretation, such that all words 51 of the provision are given effect and no part of the provision is rendered

otiose; fourth, contemporaneous understanding of administrators

responsible for implementing a new law. Also an interpretation in such

a manner as to avoid inserting words, subtracting words, and avoids

anomalies or absurdities was necessary. Lastly it was urged that giving

a deeming provision its natural effect, which in this case results in a

rule of interpretation that the provisions of a beneficent legislation

ought to be interpreted in the case of ambiguity in favour of the

citizens.54 64. It was submitted that the interpretation of Section 24 outlined

above gives the plain and natural meaning to the key expressions used

in section 24 - “physical possession”, “paid”, and “deemed to have

lapsed”. He further argued that since Section 24 of the Act of 2013

must be read with section 31 of the Act of 1894, the expression “tender”

is also relevant and the interpretation he has advanced is consistent

with the natural meaning of “tender”. 65. Learned counsel for the landowners urged that the words ‘paid’

and ‘deposited in the account of the beneficiaries’ are two permissible

modes of making compensation available to landowners. Mr. Divan

54 Counsel cited Pratap Singh vs. State of Jharkhand (2005) 3 SCC 551 (5 Judges); Central
Railway Workshop vs. Vishwanath (1969) 3 SCC 95; and M/s International Ore and Fertilisers
(india) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Employee State Insurance (1987) 4 SCC 203 in support of the rule of
beneficial construction of a welfare and remedial statute. 52 contended that these are two modes of paying the money to the

landowners. ‘Paid’, it was urged, means paid. It does not mean a deposit

in treasury. He further submitted that ‘deposit in the account of the

beneficiaries’ does not mean a deposit in the treasury. He argued that

there was no reason to depart from the rule of literal interpretation, and

the manner of payment, as held in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra),

is to be strictly in terms of Section 31 of the Act of 1894 as it is an

expropriatory legislation. It was contended as to the learned Solicitor

General’s submission that payment in terms of Section 24 is complied

with if the amount is tendered to the landowners, overlooks the

obligation of payment in terms of Section 24 is only met if the amount

is actually paid to the landowners. On the occurrence of the

contingencies mentioned in Section 31(2) of the Act of 1894, it ought to

be deposited in the Reference Court as defined under Section 3(d) of the

Act of 1894. He submitted that tendering money is not payment and Section 31(1) of the Act of 1894 uses the words ‘tender’ and ‘paid’ to

convey different meanings and obligations. Mr. Divan argued that the

judgments cited by the learned Solicitor General in this regard

essentially deal with labour laws, and are inapplicable as these statutes

did not contain a provision such as Section 31 of the Act of 1894, which

strictly and precisely prescribes what is to be done in the event when

the payment is not accepted. 66. It was argued that no rules under the Act of 1894 contemplate

deposit in the treasury. Learned counsel submitted that standing

orders, which are merely administrative instructions issued for

conducting monetary transactions of the State, have in some cases been

confused to be Rules framed under Section 55 of the Act of 1894. The

Rules or the Standing Orders have not been produced and no evidence

has been furnished of compliance with the requirements of Section 55 ,

such as notification in the Gazette. All learned counsel submitted that

in any case, delegated/subordinate legislation cannot be inconsistent

with, or in any manner depart from the express and precise language of

the parent enactment. Again, it was submitted that the State’s

argument with respect to deposit of compensation amounts in the

treasury, is untenable, for two strong reasons: one, that Section 31 itself

directed the compensation to be deposited in the court. In the teeth of

this express position, the State cannot be heard to say that it could

nevertheless “deposit” the amount in the treasury, which is nothing but

keeping the money with itself. It was secondly urged, that even

otherwise, the Act of 1894 visualized that in regard to matters not

provided expressly, rules could be made ( Section 55 ). 67. Learned counsel submitted that the State’s argument regarding

the interpretation of ‘physical possession’ to be possession as per the

ratio in Banda Development Authority (supra), is incorrect. It was

submitted that it is important to take note of the conscious inclusion of 54 the word ‘physical’ in relation to possession. An important distinction

is required to be drawn in respect of de jure / constructive / deemed

possession and ‘physical’ possession. Even if it is conceded that

drawing of a Panchnama is a valid mode of initially taking possession of

vast tracts of vacant land, the intention of the legislature is that over a

period of five years, such possession must transform to evident and

demonstrable ‘physical’ possession i.e., the manifestation of actual

control and dominion over the subject land(s). Learned counsel relied

on several decisions in support of their argument that “physical

possession” should be construed as actual physical possession, and not

constructive, or de jure possession, which in most cases is possession

on paper.55 68. Arguing next regarding the interpretation of the proviso to Section

24 , it was stated that the same is to be read as a proviso to Section 24 and not Section 24 (1) (b) . Mr. Divan submitted that a proviso may in

certain cases operate as an independent provision, and the proviso to Section 24 is a stand-alone provision which operates on its own terms.

To the extent it is linked to any provision in Section 24 , it is linked to Section 24(1)(b) since it permits enhanced compensation (in a particular

contingency of non-payment to majority of the landowners) even if an

55Seksaria Cotton mills v. State of Bombay 1953 SCR 325 Para 21; Superintendent v. Anil
Kumar (1979) 4 SCC 274 (Paras11-16); B. Gangadhar v. Rajalingam ( 1995) 5 SCC 238 (Para
5-6) Guruchand Singh v. Kamla Singh (1976) 2 SCC 152 (Paras 21-24). Mohan Lal v. State of Rajasthan (2015) 6 SCC 222 (2 Judges)

Para 11 to 15 endorsing contextual interpretation of the term 55 award may have been passed as contemplated in Section 24(1)(b) . Mr.

Divan placed reliance on the reasons given in the judgment of Delhi

Development Authority v. Virendra Lal Bahri, [SLP [C] No.37375/2016 ]. 69. All counsel for landowners submitted that there is no valid reason

to exclude from the period of 5 years under section 24(2) , the time

during which a landowner had the benefit of an interim order of a court.

In support of this argument, it was argued firstly, that Parliament did

not expressly exclude such a period in Section 24 . Second, where in the

Act of 2013, the legislature did want to exclude the period of a stay or

injunction, it has done so by using express words such as in the proviso

to Section 19 and the explanation to Section 69 of the Act of 2013.

Third, he submitted that the maxim “actus curiae neminem gravabit”

which means that “the act of court shall prejudice no one” has no

application here, as this is a maxim which is applied generally as a

principle of equity in individual cases to ensure that there is no

injustice. The maxim rarely, if ever, is applied to interpret a statute. Mr.

Divan submitted that this Court has declined to rely on this maxim in

at least two reported decisions - Padma Sundar Rao v. State of Tamil

Nadu56 and State of Rajasthan & Ors. v. Khandaka Jain Jewellers 57.

Mr. Divan further placed reliance on Snell’s Equity (33rd Edition, 2015),

which states that the maxim of equity is not a specific rule of principle

of law. It is a statement of a broad theme which underlies equitable

56 (2002) 3 SCC 533
57 (2007) 14 SCC 339 56 concepts and principles and as a result, the utility of equitable maxims

is limited. It further states that the maxim may provide some limited

assistance to court in two broad types of situation: 58 (1975) 4 SCC 22 57 a statutory period to complete the task. In such provisions, it may be

reasonable to provide for the exclusion of time by appropriate language

in the section. Here, where a cut-off date is prescribed and as such there

is no starting point and period for completion of the task, the notion of

excluding time spent in litigations is an alien concept. It was, therefore,

submitted that it is not the court’s business to stretch the words used

by the Legislature to fill in gaps or omit words used in the provisions of

an Act, i.e., to fill in an obvious and conscious exclusion of a

contingency, or a casus omissus. In support of this submission, learned

counsel relied on decisions of this Court.59 It was also argued that this

Court should not also exclude any period or periods, spent in litigation,

when interim orders were operating, because, firstly, in each such

instance, the landowners were aggrieved by different kinds of arbitrary

behaviour, such as not providing opportunity of mandatory hearing

(under an absolutely absurd rejection of objections; failure to take note

of actual developmental needs, and taking of lands, unconnected with

a public purpose, or obvious instances of expropriation of utilities and

amenities such as schools, community assets, etc. These led the courts,

on a prima facie consideration to assess the merit in the challenge and

grant interim orders. Such instances could not be called as frivolous

litigation, warranting exclusion of time, to deprive the benefit of lapsing,

enjoined by the new law. Secondly, it was argued that repeated attempts

59G. Narayanswami v. G. Pannerselvam ( 1972) 3 SCC 717 and Kuldip Nayar vs Union Of
India (2006) 7 SCC 1- both decisions of Constitution Benches. 58 were made in Parliament to amend the law, to exclude the time, in the

manner sought by the State, by use of the maxim actus curiae neminem

gravabit. However, such amendment could not pass muster. 71. Learned counsel contended that Parliament’s intent is to confer a

benefit on landholders who were impacted by the erstwhile unfair

regime. Urging that under the old law, landholders, to protect their

assets from expropriation of their land at paltry amounts, were

compelled to use legitimate systems of securing redress by filing cases

in court, counsel urged that the correct approach, is to view litigation

as a necessity under an unjust former regime and not exclude the period

spent under litigation in such an unfair regime. He further urged that

the deeming provision with its clear and verifiable benchmarks on the

five-year cut-off period, physical possession and payment is easy to

operate. Introducing notions such as exclusion of time due to pending

litigation would complicate the working of the statute. 72. Learned counsel urged that Section 24(2) uses the expression “or”.

The Legislature intended the two conditions separated by the word “or”

to be alternative conditions. Four situations arise where the conditions

are disjunctive: firstly, when physical possession is with the State and

compensation is with the citizen, there is no deemed lapse; secondly,

when physical possession is with the citizen and compensation is with

the State, there is no need for restitution as the State has retained the

compensation amount; thirdly, when physical possession is with the 59 citizen, and the compensation is also with the citizen, in such scenarios,

the citizen must return the compensation. It was urged that where the

State has paid the money by deposit in the Reference Court and the

money was lying with the Court, the State may withdraw the money on

deemed lapsing. However, if the State were to decide to acquire the land

afresh, the compensation already paid may be adjusted; and further

since inherent in the notion of lapsing is the requirement for restitution,

the State can recover the compensation, inter alia by framing suitable

rules. The citizen cannot retain compensation “had and received” since

this would amount to unjust enrichment. It was submitted that where

the physical possession as well as compensation are with the State, i.e.,

where the State has taken possession without paying compensation as

required under the Act of 1894, there is no absolute vesting free from

all encumbrances as contemplated under Section 16 . In the absence of

vesting, the State is required to restore possession to the citizen. 73. Learned counsel argued that having regard to the unfair working

of the Act of 1894, giving effect to the legislative intent by reading the

expression “or” as “or” is the correct interpretation with beneficent

consequences for the landowner. The learned counsel submitted that

reading the expression “or” as “and” not only does violence to the plain

language of section 24(2) but it also reduces the deeming provision

down to vanishing point. Should a conjunctive reading of the conditions

be combined with exclusion of the time spent in litigation or due to a 60 stay, then the whole of section 24(2) will be robbed of content since it

will apply to very rare cases. It was further submitted that Section 24 does not lay down any specific conditionality in terms of how far back

in time the awards contemplated under section 24(2) could have been

made. The deeming provision under Section 24(2) operates w.e.f.

1.1.2014 and its effect would cover all cases that fulfil the conditions

provided in the statute. Learned counsel cited decisions in support of

the interpretation that “or” should be construed disjunctively, not

conjunctively as “and”.60 74. Learned counsel stressed that there are no vested rights created

in the State in any case till compensation has been paid and possession

has been taken. The Act of 2013 is a beneficial legislation and a radical

departure from the previous unjust and oppressive regime. It intends to

confer significant benefits to the landowners and makes the exercise of

the power of eminent domain compatible with our constitutional values.

It ought to therefore be given an interpretation which favours the

landowners. Finally, he argued that the decision in Indore Development

Authority (supra) erroneously upset a consistent line of decisions which

began with Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). Subsequent decisions of

this Court following Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) have also

considered a host of arguments/issues and there is no compelling

60Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights vs. Union of India (1998) 2 SCC 109 (5 Judges); R.S. Nayak v A.R. Antulay 1984 (2) SCC 183; and Life Insurance Corporation v D. J. Bahadur 1981 (1) SCC 315. reason to make a departure. He submitted that even a larger Bench of

this Court is bound to pay due deference to the principle of Stare

Decisis. 75. Supplementing the submissions, Mr. Dinesh Dwivedi, learned

senior counsel for the landowners, argued that the meaning of the

phrase “compensation has not been paid” should be considered, given

that in Section 24(2) "paid” is not used. The phrase "has not been” is

used in respect of both "possession" as well as "paid”. Therefore, it must

mean the same in both respects. The important factors to be borne in

mind – and to distinguish the phrase “paid” from "deposit", is whether

in the court under Section 31 (2) or in the treasury under Section 31(1) .

It is urged that an analysis of Sections 17 (3A) & (3B), 31 (1) & (2) and Section 28 read with Section 34 of the Act of 1894 shows that these

provisions clearly distinguish between tender, paid or deposit whether

in the court or the treasury. 76. Learned counsel argued that three different words used in the

same Act, in various provisions of the Act, cannot mean the same. It

follows also from the reading of Section 19(1)(c) and (cc). In both these

provisions word "tender” is used in contrast to word "paid” while word

paid is used in contrast to word "deposit". The word "deposit", wherever

used, is in the context of "deposit in Court" only not treasury. The

expression "tender payment” under Section 17 (3A) and Section 31(1) of

the Act of 1894 were followed by the words "pay it to them”. Therefore, 62 tender cannot mean "paid”. It is urged that these terms fall in Part V of

the Act , titled as "Payment”. The term "pay it to them” under Section 31 after "tender" must mean an additional action or step. When after

"tender" an effort is made "to pay” the compensation and the same is

accepted by the beneficiary, it becomes "paid”. The "deposit" under Section 31(2) only comes in when the beneficiary declines payment.

This clearly implies that "tender of payment" cannot be equated with

"pay it to them" or "deposit in Court" under Section 31(1) and 31 (2) . It is

argued that what follows is that tender of payment by itself is not

enough. The State’s interpretation is contested as incorrect because if

tender is equal to being paid then why does legislature provide for

"deposit in court". The amount is deemed to be paid on tender and the

obligation to pay is discharged then the question is why require "deposit

in Court". Learned counsel argued that “Tender" can never be deemed

as "paid”: This is not only evident from reading of Section 19(c) where

the term "paid or tendered” is depicted as alternates. Similarly, "paid or

deposited" are used alternately. Likewise, Sections 17(3)(b) , 19(cc) and 34 use these words alternately. As said above if "tender” would amount

to "paid” and then the compensation would be deemed to be paid,

resulting in discharge of obligation to pay, then why deposit in court

under Section 31(2) to make it "custodia legis". Section 31(2) would

become redundant in most of the cases. 77. Learned counsel conceded that there is no doubt that on a decline

of payment by the beneficiary it has to be mandatorily deposited in

Court under Section 31(2) . The provision uses the phrase "shall deposit" 78. It was contended that the scheme of the Act of 1894 was clear and

categorical that the amount of compensations when accepted by the

beneficiary is deemed to be "paid” for interest to stop running. The 64 running of interest under Section 34 denotes non-discharge of

obligation to pay, otherwise why pay interest? The "deposit in Court" may

stop running of interest and therefore, may for this purpose be taken to

be paid, but when it comes to actual meaning in the above provisions,

"paid and deposit” are invariably separated by the use of word “or” in

between them. Therefore, it is submitted that when Section 24(2) of the

New Act uses the phrase "compensation has not been paid” it uses the

terminology of the proviso to Section 34(proviso) and must have the

same meaning "has not been paid” cannot be read as "has not been

deposited". If this is the right interpretation than the coverage of Section

24(2) also expands to cover those cases in which the compensation has

not been actually paid but has been deposited in the Court. This would

also be in keeping with the legislative policy contained in the Preamble,

to give just and fair compensation to those whose lands have been

acquired as per the Old Act . Coverage of the New Act is co-related to

persons whose "land has been acquired”. The policy of Section 24 also

reflects this expansive liberal approach of "just and fair compensation". Section 24 would therefore have to be seen in the light of this liberal

policy intent. 79. It was urged that these States’ arguments regarding revival of

claims or resulting in impossible situations causing irreparable harm

are not very relevant once the legislative policy is clear. The provision

has to be interpreted in a manner that it subserves the legislative policy 65 intent of giving just and fair compensation to those whose lands were

acquired (possession taken) under the Act of 1894. Once the legislative

policy or intent is clear then the objections relating to harsh

consequences are not really relevant. It was stated that State may be

put into a difficult situation, but the solution too is provided in the last

part of Section 24(2) which reflects the words "if it so chooses”, it can

acquire afresh under Section 24 . Learned counsel relied on Padma

Sunder Rao (supra); Popat Bahiru Govardhane v. Land Acquisition

Officer61 and B. Premanand v. Mohan Koikal62 . It was urged that the

legislative policy may cause hardship or difficulties to some or the State

may be put to an impossible situation; yet cannot take away from

Parliamentary intent. Parliament has enough wisdom to know these

difficulties, the law prevailing earlier or the ground realities. It would be

deemed to be not only aware of the difficulties, but also to have assessed

them while framing the liberalised policy. The question is one of intent.

The intent has to be seen primarily from the words used in the text. It

is only if such intent is not clear that courts have to see them with the

aid of the context. The difficulties as well as harsh consequences cannot

be utilized to assess the intent embedded in the provision if they are

clear, otherwise from the text, or the context. Not only has Parliament

not provided any clause creating any kind of exception, or extension of

five years in cases of litigating land oustees who may have an interim

61 2003 (10) SCC 765
62 (2011) 4 SCC 266 66 orders in their favour, stalling the acquisition or payment of

compensation. All that the provision says is "or compensation has not

been paid”. The projected policy intent is broad and unencumbered by

any exception. This is a clearest indicator of legislative intent to cover

all such cases that may cause hardship to the State or may be due to

the fault of Court or the litigious land oustee. The intent is clear and

therefore, has to be read apart from difficulties or hardships. 80. It is submitted that the State’s contention with regard to a

differential approach for possession and compensation is irrational and

is against the very grain of Section 24(2) and is also unreasonable and

discriminatory. It is unreasonable because there are hardly any cases

where compensation may have been paid, yet possession may not have

been taken. Most of the cases are under Section 17(1) where possession

is invariably taken while compensation remains unpaid as award is not

made. By reading word 'or' as 'and', the words "or the compensation has

not been paid" become otiose or redundant. Parliament could have only

said that lapsing would occur only if possession has not been taken,

because if possession is taken then there would never be lapsing and

there would be no need to consider "or" as "and”. Therefore, such an

interpretation (i.e., reading “or” conjunctively) is contrary to every rule

of interpretation and contrary to the Legislative policy indicated in the

Preamble of giving just and fair compensation in cases of earlier

acquisitions, which includes cases where possession has been taken. 67 81. Learned counsel urged that Section 24(2) would become

discriminatory if "or" is read as "and”. For this, it would be necessary to

analyse Section 24(1)(a) . Section 24(1)(a) applies to a situation where

there is no award made till the commencement of the New Act. No award

primarily means "compensation has not been paid”. Importantly in a

case under Section 17 of the Act of 1894, which is most frequently

utilised, possession may be taken before award is made or

compensation is paid. In other words, Section 24(1)(a) does visualize or

cover cases where possession may have been taken but “compensation

has not been paid". It, therefore, requires re-determination of

compensation under Sections 26-30 of the New Act. The problems of

who to pay the enhanced compensation, as referred above , would also

arise in this situation. Yet Parliament has ignored these difficulties and

provided for redetermination. Section 24(1)(a) may travel back to period

of five years or more, or may be 10-15 years as in case of Section 24(2) .

It would not be reasonable to restrict the retrospectivity of Section

24(1)(a) with the aid of Section 11A of the old Act, to 2 years before

commencement. It would be incorrect because then one would be

ignoring Explanation to Section 11A (proviso). The said Explanation

visualises indefinite extension of the period of award from 2 years. It

would not be, therefore, reasonable to exclude such cases where though

possession may have been taken, but compensation may not have been

paid for a very long period of time upto commencement of the new Act. Section 24(1)(a) does not contain any provision like Section 25 (proviso) , 68 Section 19(7)(proviso) and Section 69(2)(explanation) and therefore, is

wide in its coverage in the absence of exceptions as above. 82. Learned counsel urged that Section 24(2) is a special provision

giving higher benefit because in the cases covered by Section 24(2) "compensation has not been paid” despite award. Would it be rational

to read Section 24(2) in such a manner that deprives it of its value and

worth and makes it ineffective. Section 24(2) would become ineffective

as a whole because there would be rarest of the rare cases, where both

the conditions would be fulfilled. The experience shows in vast majority

of cases of acquisition under the old Act, possession is taken while

award & compensation come much later. This is because Sections 9 & 17(6) of the Act of 1894 were used in vast majority of acquisitions and

the Legislature was aware of it. The law does not compel doing of an act

that is impossible. It is emphasized that the principle does not apply as

the new Act is not requiring any such performance. The new Act after

recognising the past, is providing new solutions, rights and benefits. Section 24(2) by itself does not compel performance of an impossible

act. This principle could have been relevant during earlier Act but is

hardly relevant for interpreting the scope of Section 24(2) of the New

Act. Section 24 clearly postulates that even though the Act may be

impossible of performance, or results in undue advantage to the

beneficiary despite his fault in declining, yet benefit of Section 24(2) may

be given without creating any exception. There is no constitutional 69 restriction on the Legislature that such cases or situations have to be

excluded. The legislature can provide benefit in the same manner to all,

difficulties apart. Reliance is placed on certain decisions in support of

this proposition.63 Therefore, such interpretation which excludes the

benefits under Section 24(2) by resorting to such arguments of

difficulties is meaningless. The giving of benefit to all by ignoring above

circumstance is neither illegal nor unjust. It is neither anomalous nor

absurd. It is urged that what the court feels is not important; what is

relevant is the view of the legislature, to be culled out from the reading

of only the text or the context; not in any other manner. For this rule,

reliance was placed on Mohd. Kavi v. Fatmabal Ibrahim64 and other

decisions. 83. Other learned senior counsel, i.e M/s Dushyant Dave, Gopal

Shankarnarayan, Siddharth Luthra, Nakul Dewan, Manoj Swaroop,

Anukul Chandra Pradhan supplemented the submissions of Mr. Divan

and Mr. Dwivedi. It was argued by them that this Court should not

depart from the rule of literal interpretation, because that would be both

beneficial and purposive, given the oppressive nature of the Act of 1894. In this context, it was submitted that the expressions “paid” and “or”

should be construed in the manner that Parliament intended, having

63 Martin Burn Ltd v Corporation of Calcutta 1966 (1) SCR 543; Commissioner of Agricultural
Income Tax v Keshab Chandra Mandal 1950 SCR 435; and State of Maharastra v Nanded
Parbhani Sangh 2000 (2) SCC 69. 64 1997 (6) SCC 71 and M.V. Javali v Mahajan Borewell & Co. Ltd 1997 (8) SCC 72; and

Nanded Parbhani Sangh (supra); and SMS Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla (2005) 8 SCC 89. 70 regard to the overall intent of ensuring the acquisition proceedings,

where either compensation was not paid, or possession was not taken,

in respect of awards made before 1.1.2009, should lapse. It was

submitted that there is no insurmountable difficulty or impossibility,

even if possession is taken (but compensation not paid) and even if

vesting occurs, Section 24(2) of the new Act expressly provides for

lapsing. The remedy in that case , for the appropriate Government is the

option of going through the acquisition again using emergency

provisions. In that event, the authorities would have to provide for

rehabilitation and enhanced compensation. In any case, the court

always has the option in such cases where third party rights have

ensued to do complete justice, by duly compensating those whose land

is acquired, without disturbing the possession of third party who has

been given the land. 84. The learned counsel submit that this Court should base itself on

the approach to interpret Section 24 of the Act of 2013 is that it is a

savings clause with an exclusionary deeming provision. It is urged that

the words "physical possession” under Section 24(2) should be read to

reflect the actual state of affairs as on the date when the Act of 2013

came into force, i.e., there was actual physical possession of the land.

This would also be the case in relation to the term "compensation not

paid" under Section 24(2) , where compensation would either have had

to be paid or deposited in court; and that use of the term "or" signifies 71 that the two conditions set out above are disjunctive. It is argued that

Section 114 consists of two sections (1) a repeal clause set out in Section

114 (1); and (2) a savings clause set out in Section 114(2). It is

contended that there is a distinction in the manner in which a repealing

clause is construed as compared to the manner in which a savings

clause is construed. While a repealing clause, followed by a new

legislation on the same subject-matter would result in a line of enquiry

about what rights are obliterated under the old Act by the new Act, a

savings clause would be construed in a manner that resurrects a

provision, which would otherwise be obliterated on account of the

repeal. In relation to a repeal clause, the effect of obliterating the

provisions of the previous enactment would be as if it never existed,

except for vested rights, which would be protected under Section 6 of

the General Clauses Act. Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, thus

operated as a savings clause. Learned counsel rely on the judgment of

this court in State of Punjab v. Mohar Singh65 that the effect of repealing

a statute was said to be to obliterate it as completely from the records

of Parliament as if it had never been passed, except for the purpose of

those actions, which were commenced, prosecuted and concluded while

it was an existing law and that: This creates a legal fiction which, as held by this court in J.K.Cotton

Spg. & Wvg.Mils Ltd. v. Union of India,66 is: Learned counsel also placed reliance on the decision of the

Constitution Bench in Bengal Immunity Co.Ltd. v. State of Bihar67 to the

following effect: 88. It was submitted that in order to determine the accrued rights and

incurred liabilities that have been saved under the Act of 1894, the line

of inquiry is not to enquire if the new enactment has by its new

provisions kept alive the rights and liabilities under the repealed law,

but whether it has taken away those rights and liabilities. 89. All learned counsel supported the submission that the proviso is

not restricted in its operation to Section 24 (2) only and that its

placement is not determinative. It was emphasized that the proviso does

69 Jayantilal Amrathlal v. Union of India ,( 1972) 4 SCC 174, T.S.Baliah v. Income Tax Officer,
Central Circle VI,Madras,1969 (3) SCR 65
70 2016 (4) SCC 216. not say that higher compensation would be paid, in the contingency

provided by it, as an option to avoid lapsing. The absence of any

reference to lapsing, or the ingredients of Section 24 (2) clearly meant

that the benefit of higher compensation in the event a majority of the

landowners were not paid compensation (under the old Act) was to

enure to all falling in the same class, i.e., those whose lands were

subjected to acquisition, whether five years prior to or less than coming

into force of the Act of 2013. Relevant provisions 90. For appreciating the controversy in the present cases, it is

essential to extract certain relevant provisions of the Act of 1894 as well

as the Act of 2013. The provisions of the Act of 1894 are reproduced

below: [(3A) Before taking possession of any land under sub-section (1)
 or sub-section (2), the Collector shall, without prejudice to the
 provisions of sub-section (3)- (a) tender payment of eighty per centum of the compensation for
 such land as estimated by him to the persons interested
 entitled thereto, and (b) pay it to them, unless prevented by some one or more of the
 contingencies mentioned in section 31 , sub-section (2),
and where the Collector is so prevented, the provisions of section
31 , sub-section (2) (except the second proviso thereto), shall apply
as they apply to the payment of compensation under that section.

(4) In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of the
[appropriate Government], the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) are applicable, the appropriate Government may direct
that the provisions of section 5A shall not apply, and, if it does so
direct, a declaration may be made under section 6 in respect of
the land at any time after the date of the publication of the
notification under section 4 , sub-section (1).]” 16. Power to take possession.—When the Collector has made
an award under section 11 , he may take possession of the land,
which shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government, free
from all encumbrances. *** *** 31. Payment of compensation or deposit of same in Court. - (1) On making an award under section 11 , the Collector shall
tender payment of the compensation awarded by him to the
persons interested entitled thereto according to the award, and
shall pay it to them unless prevented by some one or more of the
contingencies mentioned in the next sub-section.

(2) If they shall not consent to receive it, or if there be no person
competent to alienate the land, or if there be any dispute as to the
title to receive the compensation or as to the apportionment of it,
the Collector shall deposit the amount of the compensation in the
Court to which a reference under section 18 would be submitted: (2) Save as otherwise provided in this Act the repeal under sub-
 section (1) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general
 application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of
 1897) with regard to the effect of repeals.” Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 reads as follows: and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
 instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture
 or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act or
 Regulation had not been passed.”

Salient features of the Act of 2013 91. There can no dispute, no two opinions about the fact that

provisions of the Act of 2013, were enacted with the object of providing

fair compensation and rehabilitating those displaced from their land.

The Introduction and Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act of

2013 are extracted hereunder: 92. Section 2(2) of the Act of 2013, provides that in the event of

acquisition for private companies, consent of 80% of the affected

families has to be obtained and for the public-private partnerships,

consent of 70% of the affected families is required to be taken. In Section 3(c) , the term 'affected family' has been widened, which inter

alia includes members of the Schedule Tribes, forest dwellers, and

families whose livelihood is dependent on forests or water bodies. A

“Social Impact Assessment” (“SIA”) has to be prepared, as provided in Sections 4 to 9 . Special provisions to safeguard food security have been

made by prohibiting the acquisition of multi-cropped land except in

exceptional circumstances as enumerated in Section 10 . Section 11 is

akin to Section 4 of the Act of 1894 regarding issuance of preliminary

notification. The SIA report lapses in case preliminary notification

under Section 11 is not issued within a period of 12 months from the

date of the report. A Rehabilitation and Resettlement Scheme (“RR

Scheme”) is provided in Sections 16 to 18 . The Collector has to pass

the award under Section 23 . Section 26 deals with the determination of

the market value by the Collector. Section 30 provides for Solatium at

100%. The RR award has to be passed by the Collector under Section

31 , and notice has to be given immediately under Section 37 , which is

equivalent to Section 12 of the Act of 1894. Section 38 provides that

Collector has to take possession after full payment of compensation has 86 been made as well as rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements are

paid or tendered to the entitled persons. Thus, there is a departure

from Section 16 Act of 1894 in the provisions contained in Section 38 of the Act of 2013. The Collector has to ensure under Section 38 of Act

of 2013 that the rehabilitation and resettlement process is complete

before displacing people. Section 40 deals with urgent cases. The

Government may acquire land without making award in the case of

urgency for the defence of India or national security. In other

emergencies arising out of natural calamities or any other emergencies

special provisions under Section 40 may be exercised with the approval

of the Parliament. In such event, the provisions of the Social Impact

Assessment and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Scheme may be

exempted. Additional compensation of 75% is payable in such cases. Section 41 contains special provisions for Scheduled Castes and

Scheduled Tribes by prohibiting acquisition in scheduled areas as far

as possible. Sections 43 to 50 deal with appointment and constitution

of the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authorities and Monitoring

Committees at Project as well as National Levels. Sections 51 to 74 deal

with the establishment of Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation, and

Resettlement Authority. Sections 77 to 80 are pari materia to the

provisions contained in Sections 31 to 34 of the Act of 1894, relating to

payment, deposit, and interest, etc. Section 93 is equivalent to Section

48 of the Land Acquisition Act. The Government shall be at liberty to

withdraw from acquisition if possession of land has not been taken. 87 Section 101 provides that land be returned to the original owner or the

Land Bank of the appropriate Government if acquired land remains

unutilized for a period of five years. Thus, various departures have been

made from the old Land Acquisition Act, in the Act of 2013 relating to

Social Impact Assessment, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Scheme,

etc. It ensures higher compensation than the old Act; the public

purpose has been defined; consent provisions have also been made.

The interest of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have been

adequately protected. Various Committees and Authorities have been

constituted. The definition of 'affected families' has been widened. 93. Undoubtedly the Act of 2013 has provided safeguards, in the form

of higher compensation and provisions for rehabilitation, which are

necessary. In that light, the court has to interpret its provisions, to give

full and meaningful effect to the legislative intent keeping in mind the

language and tenor of the provisions, it is not for the court to legislate.

The Court can only iron out creases to clear ambiguity. The intended

benefit should not be taken away. At the same time, since the Act of

2013, envisages lapse of acquisitions notified (and in many cases,

completed by the issuance of the award) due to indolence and inaction

on the part of the authorities and therefore, intends acquisition at a fast

track, the full effect has to be given to the provisions contained in Section 24 . Scope of Section 24 88 94. Section 24 begins with a non-obstante clause, overriding all other

provisions of the Act of 2013 including Section 114 of the Act of 2013,

dealing with repeal and saving. In terms of Section 114 of the Act of

2013, the general application of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act,

1897, except otherwise provided in the Act, has been saved. Section

6(a) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 provides that unless a different

intention appears, the repeal shall not revive anything not in force or

existing at the time when the repeal has been made. The effect of the

previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done

or suffered thereunder is also saved by the provisions contained in Section 6(b) . As per Section 6(c) , the repeal shall not affect any right,

privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred. 95. Section 24(1)(a) of the Act of 2013 read with the non-obstante

clause provides that in case of proceedings initiated under the Act of

1894 the award had not been made under Section 11 , then the

provisions of the Act of 2013, relating to the determination of

compensation would apply. However; the proceedings held earlier do

not lapse. In terms of Section 24(1)(b) , where award under Section 11 is made, then such proceedings shall continue under the provisions of

the Act of 1894. It contemplates that such pending proceedings, as on

the date on which the Act of 2013 came into force shall continue, and

taken to their logical end. However, the exception to Section 24 (1)(b) is

provided in Section 24(2) in case of pending proceedings; in case where 89 the award has been passed five years or more prior to the

commencement of the Act of 2013, the physical possession of the land

has not been taken, or the compensation has not been paid, the

proceedings shall be deemed to have lapsed, and such proceedings

cannot continue as per the provisions of Section 24(1)(b) of the Act of

2013. 96. Section 24(2) carves out an exception to Section 24(1)(b) , where

the award has been passed, and the proceedings are pending, but in

such proceedings, physical possession of the land has not been taken,

or compensation has not been paid, proceedings shall lapse. There are

twin requirements for the lapse; firstly, physical possession has not

been taken and, secondly, compensation has not been paid. In case,

possession has been taken but compensation has been paid, there is no

lapse of the proceedings. The question which is to be decided is whether

the conditions are cumulative, i.e both are to be fulfilled, for lapsing of

acquisition proceedings, or the conditions are in the alternative

(“either/or”). According to the State and acquiring agencies, in a

situation where possession has been taken, and compensation is not

paid, there is no lapse: also in case where compensation has been paid,

but possession not taken in a proceeding pending as on 1.1.2014, there

is no lapse. Sine qua non is that proceeding must be pending. They

argue that the word “or” used in phrase ‘the physical possession of the

land has been not taken, or the compensation has not been paid’, has 90 to be interpreted as "and" as two negative requirements qualify it.

Furthermore, argues the State when two negative conditions are

connected by "or," they are construed as cumulative, the word "or" is to

be read as "nor" or "and." Naturally, the landowners argue to the

contrary, i.e., that lapse of acquisition occurred if compensation were

not paid, or possession were not taken, 5 years before the coming into

force of the Act of 2013. 97. It would be useful to notice rules of Statutory Interpretation in

this regard. Principles of Statutory Interpretation (14th Edition) by Justice

G.P. Singh, speaks of the following general rule of Statutory

Interpretation of positive and negative conditions whenever prescribed

by a statute: Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal, (1971) 2 SCC 540; Brown & Co. v. Harrison, (1927)
All ER Rep 195, pp. 203, 204 (CA). For convenience, the numbers in the extracted portion above have been renumbered.
73 AIR 1965 SC 1457 91 land if he satisfies either of the two conditions. The appellant is
 not a permanent tenant, and does not satisfy the condition
 mentioned in sub-s.(1)(a). Though not a permanent tenant, he
 cultivated the lands leased personally, and, therefore, satisfies
 the first part of the condition specified in sub-s. (1)(b). The
 appellant’s contention is that sub-ss. (1)(b)(i), (1)(b)(ii) and (1)(b)(iii)
 lay down alternative conditions, and as he satisfies the condition
 mentioned in sub-s. (1)(b)(iii), he must be deemed to have
 purchased the land on April 1, 1957. Colour is lent to this
 argument by the word “or” appearing between sub-s.(1)(b)(ii) and
 sub-s.(1)(b)(iii). But, we think that the word “or” between sub-ss.
 (1)(b)(ii) and (1)(b)(iii) in conjunction with the succeeding negatives
 is equivalent to and should be read as "nor." In other words, a
 tenant (other than a permanent tenant) cultivating the lands
 personally would become the purchaser of the lands on April 1,
 1957, if on that date neither an application under S.29 read with S.31 nor an application under S.29 read with S.14 was pending.
 If an application either under S.29 read with S.31 or under S.29 read with S.14 was pending April 1, 1957, the tenant would
 become the purchaser on "the postponed date", that is to say,
 when the application would be finally rejected. But if the
 application be finally allowed, the tenant would not become the
 purchaser. The expression "an application" in the proviso means
 not only an application under S.31 but also an application under S.29 read with S.14 . If an application of either type was pending
 on April 1, 1957, the tenant could not become the purchaser on
 that elate. Now, on April 1, 1957, the application filed by
 respondent No.1 under S.29 read with S.31 was pending.
 Consequently, the appellant could not be deemed to have
 purchased the lands on April 1, 1957.”

 The decision of this Court in The Punjab Produce and Trading Co.

Ltd. vs. The C.I.T., West Bengal, Calcutta 74, was relied upon in the

discussion mentioned above, where provisions of Section 23A of the

Income Tax Act, 1922 and the Explanation (b)(ii) and (iii) came up for

consideration. This Court ruled with respect to "or" and held that it had

to be read as "and" construing negative conditions thus: 74 1971 (2) SCC 540 92 been used disjunctively and not conjunctively. The same
 reasoning is sought to be invoked with reference to sub-clause (b)(iii). 8. It is significant that the language of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of
 clause (b) is different. The former relates to a positive state of
 affairs whereas the latter lays down negative conditions. The
 word “or” is often used to express an alternative of terms defined
 or explanation of the same thing in different words. Therefore, if
 either of the two negative conditions which are to be found in sub-
 clause (b)(iii) remains unfulfilled, the conditions laid down in the
 entire clause cannot be said to have been satisfied. The clear
 import of the opening part of clause (b) with the word “and”
 appearing there read with the negative or disqualifying
 conditions in sub-clause (b)(iii) is that the assessee was bound to
 satisfy apart from the conditions contained in the other sub-
 clauses that its affairs were at no time during the previous year
 controlled by less than six persons and shares carrying more
 than 50 per cent of the total voting power were during the same
 period not held by less than six persons. We are unable to find
 any infirmity in the reasoning or the conclusion of the Tribunal
 and the High Court so far as question 1 is concerned.”

 It was observed that if either of the two negative conditions, which

are to be found in Sub-clause (b)(iii), remains unfulfilled, the conditions laid down in the entire clause cannot be said to have been satisfied. 98. It would also be useful to note that in Brown & Co. v. Harrison75,

the provisions contained in Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1924 came

up for consideration before the Court of Appeal. The Court held that

the word “or” in Article IV, R 2 (q), must be read conjunctively and not

disjunctively. It has been observed that quite commonly collation of the

words “or” can be meant in conjunctive sense and certainly where the

disjunctive use of the word, leads to repugnance or absurdity.

75 (1927) All ER Rep 195 pp. 203, 204 (CA) 93 99. In this Court’s considered view, as regards the collation of the

words used in Section 24(2) , two negative conditions have been

prescribed. Thus, even if one condition is satisfied, there is no lapse,

and this logically flows from the Act of 1894 read with the provisions of Section 24 of the Act of 2013. Any other interpretation would entail

illogical results. That apart, if the rule of interpretation with respect to

two negative conditions qualified by “or” is used, then “or” should be

read as “nor” or “and”. Brown & Co. v. Harrison (supra), ruled thus,

about the interpretation of two negative conditions connected by the

word "or": 100. In Federal Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Department of Trade and

Industry76, the then House of Lords ruled as follows: 101. In M/s. Ranchhoddas Atmaram and Anr. v. The Union of India and

Ors.77 , a Constitution Bench of this Court observed that if there are two

negative conditions, the expression “or” has to be read as conjunctive

and conditions of both the clauses must be fulfilled. It was observed: This rule of grammar is not in dispute. In such a case the
 conditions of both the clauses must be fulfilled and the result
 would be that the penalty that can be imposed can never exceed
 Rs. 1,000. (15) The question then really comes to this: Is the sentence before
 us a negative or an affirmative one? It seems to us that the
 sentence is an affirmative sentence. The substance of the
 sentence is that a certain person shall be liable to a penalty. That

77 AIR 1961 SC 935 95 is a positive concept. The sentence is therefore not negative in its
 import.”
 (emphasis supplied)

 Thus, for lapse of acquisition proceedings initiated under the old

law, under Section 24(2) if both steps have not been taken, i.e., neither

physical possession is taken, nor compensation is paid, the land

acquisition proceedings lapse. Several decisions were cited at Bar to

say that "or" has been treated as "and" and vice versa. Much depends

upon the context. In Prof. Yashpal & Ors. v. State of Chhattisgarh &

Ors.78 , the expression "established or incorporated" was read as

"established and incorporated." In R.M.D.C (supra), to give effect to the

clear intention of the Legislature, the word "or" was read as "and." 102. In Ishwar Singh Bindra (supra) it was observed that: 103. In Joint Director of Mines Safety v. Tandur and Nayandgi Stone

Quarries (P) Ltd79 , “and” was read disjunctively considering the

legislative intent. In Samee Khan (supra), the term “and” was construed

78 (2005) 5 SCC 420
79 (1987) 3 SCC 308 96 as “or” to carry out the legislative intention. In Mobilox Innovations

Private Limited (supra), similar observations were made. In Green v.

Premier Glynrhonwy State Co. L.R80, it has been laid down that

sometimes word “or” read as “and” and vice versa, but does not do so

unless it becomes necessary because “or” does not generally mean “and”

and "and" does not generally mean "or”. 104. In R.M.D.C. (supra) the definition under Section 2(1)(d) came up

for consideration. The qualifying clause consisted of two parts

separated from each other by the disjunctive word "or". Both parts of

the qualifying clause indicated that each of the five kinds of prize

competitions that they qualified were of a gambling nature. The court

held considering the apparent intention of the legislature, it has

perforce to read the word "or" as “and”. In Tilkayat Shri Govindlalji

Maharaj etc. v State of Rajasthan & Ors81, this Court considered the

composition of the Board prescribed under Section 5 . The expressions

used were not belonging to professing the Hindu religion or not

belonging to the Pushti-Margiya Vallabhi Sampradaya. Two negative

conditions were used. This Court has observed that "or" in clause (g)

dealing with disqualification must mean "and". The relevant portion of

the same is extracted hereunder: being interested in a subsisting contract entered into with the
 temple; and lastly, not professing the Hindu religion or not
 belonging to the Pushti-MargiyaVallabhi Sampradaya. There can
 be no doubt that "or" in clause (g) must mean "and," for the context
 clearly indicates that way. There is a proviso to Section 5(2) which lays down that the disqualification as to the holding of an
 office or an employment under the temple shall not apply to the
 Goswami and the disqualification about the religion will not apply
 to the Collector; that is to say, a Collector will be a member of the
 Board even though he may not be a Hindu and a follower of the
 denomination. Section 5(3) provides that the President of the
 Board shall be appointed by the State Government and shall for
 all purposes be deemed to be a member. Under Section 5(4) the
 Collector shall be an ex-officio member of the Board. Section 5(5) provides that all the other members specified in sub-clause (1)
 shall be appointed by the State Government so as to secure
 representation of the Pushti-Margiya Vaishnavas from all over
 India. This clearly contemplates that the other members of the
 Board shall not only be Hindus, but should also belong to the
 denomination, for it is in that manner alone that their
 representation can be adequately secured.”

 (emphasis supplied) 105. In Prof. Yashpal (supra), the word “or” occurring in the expression

“established or incorporated” was read as “and” so that the State

enactment did not come in conflict with the Central legislation and

create any hindrance or obstacle in the working of the latter. This court

has observed: The word "or" is normally disjunctive and "and" is normally
 conjunctive, but at times, they are read vice versa to give effect to
 the manifest intentions of the legislature, as disclosed from the
 context. If literal reading of the word produces an unintelligible or
 absurd result, "and" maybe read for "or" and "or" maybe read for
 "and." (See Principles of Statutory Interpretation by G.P. Singh,
 7th Edn., p. 339 and also State of Bombay v. R.M.D.
 Chamarbaugwala , AIR 1957 SC 699, AIR at p. 709 and Mazagaon Dock Ltd. v. CIT , AIR 1958 SC 861) We are of the
 opinion that having regard to the constitutional scheme and in
 order to ensure that the enactment made by Parliament, namely,
 the University Grants Commission Act is able to achieve the
 objective for which it has been made and UGC is able to perform
 its duties and responsibilities, and further that the State
 enactment does not come in conflict with the Central legislation
 and create any hindrance or obstacle in the working of the latter,
 it is necessary to read the expression “established or
 incorporated” as “established and incorporated” insofar as the
 private universities are concerned.”
 (emphasis supplied) 106. Reference has also been made to Pooran Singh v. State of M.P82 , in

which the Court considered the scheme of the M.V. Act . The magistrate

was bound to issue summons of the nature prescribed by sub-section

(1) of Section 130. The Court held that there was nothing in the sub-

section which indicated that he must endorse the summons in terms of

both the clauses (a) and (b), that he is so commanded would be to

convert the conjunction 'or' into 'and'. There is nothing in the language

of the legislature which justifies such a conversion and there are

adequate reasons which make such an interpretation wholly

inconsistent with the scheme of the Act. 107. Reliance has been placed on Sri Nasiruddin v. State Transport

Appellate Tribunal83 . The word 'or' was given grammatical meaning. The

82 1965 (2) SCR 853
83 1975 (2) SCC 671 99 order states that the High Court shall sit as the new High Court and the

Judges and Division Bench thereof shall sit at Allahabad or at such

other places in the United Provinces as the Chief Justice may appoint.

It was held that the word 'or' cannot be read as 'and'. They should be

considered in an ordinary sense. If two different interpretations are

possible, the court will adopt that which is just, reasonable and

sensible. The Court observed thus: 108. In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Tek Chand Bhatia 84, for

interpretation of 'and' and 'or' in the context of the term ‘adulterated’ as

defined in section 2(i)(f) , the Court observed: and "otherwise unfit for human consumption" could have been
intended to be used conjunctively. It would be more appropriate
in the context to read it disjunctively. In Stroud’s Judicial
Dictionary, 3rd Edn., Vol. 1, it is stated at p. 135: 109. In State of Punjab v. Ex-Constable Ram Singh85 , ‘or’ was read as

‘nor’ and not as ‘and’ in the context of Section 2 of the Armed Forces

Special Powers Act, 1948. In Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights (supra), the Court held that the language of section 4(a) does not

support the said construction. 110. In Marsey Docks and Harbour Board v. Coggins and Griffith

(Liverpool) Ltd.86, the Court observed as follows: (at page 603)

 "…unless the context makes the necessary meaning of "or" "and," 111. In Re Hayden Pask v. Perry87, the expression "or their issue" had

been considered, and it was observed that the words "or their issue" instead of "or." But I think that the meaning of the enactment is
 that the road must be of the width specified, and that no road
 shall be allowed unless it is of the width specified, nor unless it
 is open at both ends. That seems to me to be the object of the
 statute, which was passed for sanitary purposes, and also for
 the purpose of comfort and traffic. It was contended that the object of the provision is sanitary
 only, and that if a street is forty feet wide, or if however narrow,
 it is open at both ends, good ventilation is secured. But a very
 long narrow street would hardly be more salubrious with both
 ends open than if one end were closed and the street were a cul
 de sac. Our construction of the Act is according to the ordinary use of
 language, although it may not be strictly grammatical. We might
 have referred to authorities by good writers, shewing that where
 the word "or" is preceded by a negative or prohibitory provision,
 it frequently has a different sense from that which it has when it
 is preceded by an affirmative provision. For instance, suppose
 an order that "you must have your house either drained or
 ventilated." The word "or" would be clearly used in the
 alternative. Suppose again, the order was that "you must have
 your house drained or ventilated," that conveys the idea to my
 mind that you must have your house either drained or ventilated.
 But supposing the order were that "you must not have your house
 undrained or unventilated." The second negative words are
 coupled by the word "or," and the negative in the preceding
 sentence governs both. In s. 98 there is a negative preceding a
 sentence; "no existing road" shall be formed as a street for
 carriage traffic unless such road be widened to forty feet, or for
 the purposes of foot traffic only unless such road or way be
 widened to the width of twenty feet, "or" unless such streets shall
 be open at both ends. Probably, if the word "or" in the sentence,
 "or for purposes of foot traffic only," had been written "nor," the
 language there too would have been more clear and more
 decidedly prohibitory; but with regard to the sentence "or unless
 such streets shall be open at both ends" I think that by reading 103 the word "or" as "nor" we carry out the intention of the Act, which
 was to have streets of a proper width and properly opened at
 both ends, and that there should not be incommodious and
 unhealthy cross streets which are culs de sac, shut up at one
 end. There have been frequently cases on the construction of
 statutes where the Courts have held “or” to mean “and,” taking
 the rest of the sentence in which the word “or” occurred, the object
 and intention being prohibition, and the two things prohibited
 being coupled by the word “or.” I think the prohibition in s.98
 relates to both the width and open ending of streets. The street
 must be both of the width prescribed and also open at both ends.” 112. Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 is, in our opinion, a penal

provision - to punish the acquiring authority for its lethargy in not

taking physical possession nor paying the compensation after making

the award five years or more before the commencement of the Act of

2013 in pending proceedings, providing that they would lapse. The

expression where an award has been made, then the proceedings shall

continue used in Section 24(1)(b) under the provisions of the Act of 1894

means that proceedings were pending in praesenti as on the date of

enforcement of the Act of 2013 are not concluded proceedings, and in

that context, an exception has been carved out in section 24(2) . 113. Even if possession has been taken, despite which payment has

not been made nor deposited, (for the majority of the land-holdings),

then all beneficiaries holding land on the date of notification under Section 4 of the Act of 1894, are to be paid compensation under the

provisions of the Act of 2013. Section 24 of the Act of 2013 frowns upon

indolence and stupor of the authorities. The expression “possession of

the land has not been taken” or “compensation has not been paid” 104 indicates a failure on the part of the authorities to take the necessary

steps for five years or more in a pending proceeding under Section

24(1)(b) . Section 24(2) starts with a non-obstante clause overriding what

is contained in Section 24(1) . Thus, Section 24(2) has to be read as an

exception to Section 24(1)(b) . Similarly, the proviso has to be read as a

proviso to Section 24(2) for the several reasons to be discussed

hereafter. Parliament enacted a beneficial provision in case authorities

delayed in taking of the possession for more than five years nor paid

compensation, meaning thereby acquisition has not been completed. Section 24(2) clearly contemplates inaction on the part of the authorities

not as a result of the dilatory tactics and conduct of the landowners or

other interested persons. 114. There are other reasons to read the word 'or' in Section 24 as 'and.'

When we consider the scheme of the Act of 1894, once the award was

made under Section 11 , the Collector may, undertake possession of the

land which shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government free from

all encumbrances. Section 16 of the Act of 1894 enables the Collector

to take possession of acquired land, when an award is made under Section 11 . Section 17(1) of the Act of 1894 confers special powers in

cases of urgency. The Collector could, on the expiration of 15 days from

the publication of notice under Section 9(1) , take possession of any land

needed for a public purpose and such land was to thereupon vest

absolutely in the Government, free from all encumbrances. Under 105 Section 17(3A) before taking possession, the Collector had to tender

payment of 80% of the compensation, as estimated by him and also had

to pay the landowners or to persons interested, unless prevented by

exigencies mentioned in Section 31(2) . It is also provided in sub-section

(3B) of Section 17 of the Act of 1894 that the amount paid or deposited

under Section 17(3A) shall be taken into account for determining the

compensation required to be tendered under Section 31 . 115. It is apparent from a plain reading of Section 16 (of the Act of

1894) that the land vests in the Government absolutely when

possession is taken after the award is passed. Clearly, there can be

lapse of proceedings under the Act of 1894 only when possession is not

taken. The provisions in Section 11A of the Act of 1894 states that the

Collector shall make an award within a period of two years from the

date of the publication of the declaration under Section 6 and if no

award is made within two years, the entire proceedings for acquisition

of the land shall lapse. The period of two year excludes any period

during which interim order granted by the Court was in operation. Once

an award is made and possession is taken, by virtue of Section 16 , land

vests absolutely in the State, free from all encumbrances. Vesting of

land is automatic on the happening of the two exigencies of passing

award and taking possession, as provided in Section 16 . Once

possession is taken under Section 16 of the Act of 1894, the owner of 106 the land loses title to it, and the Government becomes the absolute

owner of the land. 116. Payment of compensation under the Act of 1894 is provided for by Section 31 of the Act, which is to be after passing of the award under Section 11 . The exception, is in case of urgency under Section 17 , is

where it has to be tendered before taking possession. Once an award

has been passed, the Collector is bound to tender the payment of

compensation to the persons interested entitled to it, as found in the

award and shall pay it to them unless “prevented” by the contingencies

mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 31 . Section 31(3) contains a non-

obstante clause which authorises the Collector with the sanction of the

appropriate Government, in the interest of the majority, by the grant of

other lands in exchange, the remission of land revenue on other lands

or in such other way as may be equitable. 117. Section 31(1) enacts that the Collector has to tender payment of

the compensation awarded by him to the persons interested entitled

thereto according to the award and shall pay such amount to a person

interested in the land, unless he (the Collector) is prevented from doing

so, for any of the three contingencies provided by sub-section (2). Section 31 (2) provides for deposit of compensation in Court in case

State is prevented from making payment in the event of (i) refusal to

receive it; (ii) if there be no person competent to alienate the land; (iii) if

there is any dispute as to the title to receive the compensation; or (iv) if 107 there is dispute as to the apportionment. In such exigencies, the

Collector shall deposit the amount of the compensation in the court to

which a reference under Section 18 would be submitted. 118. Section 34 deals with a situation where any of the obligations

under Section 31 is not fulfilled, i.e., when the amount of compensation

is not paid or deposited on or before taking possession of the land, the

Collector shall pay the amount awarded with interest thereon at the rate

of 9% per annum from the time of so taking possession until it shall

have been so paid or deposited; and after one year from the date on

which possession is taken, interest payable shall be at the rate of 15%

per annum. The scheme of the Act of 1894 clearly makes it out that

when the award is passed under Section 11 , thereafter possession is

taken as provided under Section 16 , land vests in the State

Government. Under Section 12(2) , a notice of the award has to be

issued by the Collector. Taking possession is not dependent upon

payment. Payment has to be tendered under Section 31 unless the

Collector is “prevented from making payment," as provided under section 31(2) . In case of failure under Section 31(1) or 31(3), also

Collector is not precluded from making payment, but it carries interest

under Section 34 @ 9% for the first year from the date it ought to have

been paid or deposited and thereafter @ 15%. Thus, once land has been

vested in the State under Section 16 , in case of failure to pay the

compensation under Section 31(1) to deposit under Section 31(2) , 108 compensation has to be paid along with interest, and due to non-

compliance of Section 31 , there is no lapse of acquisition. The same

spirit has been carried forward in the Act of 2013 by providing in Section

24(2) . Once possession has been taken though the payment has not

been made, the compensation has to be paid along with interest as

envisaged under section 34 , and in a case, payment has been made,

possession has not been taken, there is no lapse under Section 24(2) .

In a case where possession has been taken under the Act of 1894 as

provided by Section 16 or 17(1) the land vests absolutely in the State,

free from all encumbrances, if compensation is not paid, there is no

divesting there will be no lapse as compensation carries interest @ 9%

or @ 15% as envisaged under Section 34 of the Act of 1894. Proviso to Section 24(2) makes some wholesome provision in case the amount has

not been deposited with respect to majority of landholdings, in such an

event, not only those persons but all the beneficiaries, though for

minority of holding compensation has been paid, shall be entitled to

higher compensation in accordance with the provisions of the Act of

2013. The expression used is “all beneficiaries specified in the

notification for acquisition under Section 4 of the said Land Acquisition

Act ”, i.e., Act of 1894, means that the persons who are to be paid higher

compensation are those who have been recorded as beneficiaries as on

the date of notification under Section 4 . The proviso gives effect to, and

furthers the principle that under the Act of 1894, the purchases made

after issuance of notification under Section 4 are void. As such, the 109 benefit of higher compensation under the proviso to Section 24(2) is

intended to be given to the beneficiaries mentioned in the notification

under Section 4 of the Act of 1894. 119. It is apparent from the Act of 1894 that the payment of

compensation is dealt with in Part V, whereas acquisition is dealt with

in Part II. Payment of compensation is not made pre-condition for taking

possession under Section 16 or under Section 31 read with Section 34 .

Possession can be taken before tendering the amount except in the case

of urgency, and deposit (of the amount) has to follow in case the

Collector is prevented from making payment in exigencies as provided

in Section 31(3) . What follows is that in the event of not fulfilling the

obligation to pay or to deposit under Section 31(1) and 31(2) , the Act of

1894 did not provide for lapse of land acquisition proceedings, and only

increased interest follows with payment of compensation. 120. The terms of object clause No. 18 (of the Statement of Objects and

Reasons) to the Act of 2013 reveals that the option of taking possession

(of acquired land) upon making of an award the new law would be

available in the cases of land acquisition under the Act of 1894 where

award has not been made, or possession of land has not been taken. It

is apparent that the benefits under the Act of 2013 envisage that where

the award had not been made, or award has been made, but possession

has not been taken (because once possession is taken, land is vests in

the State) there can be lapse of acquisition. No doubt about that 110 payment is also to be made: that issue is taken care of by the provision

of payment of interest under Section 34 : also, in case of non-deposit- in

respect of majority of holdings in a given award, higher compensation

under the Act of 2013 has to be paid to all beneficiaries as on the date

of notification under Section 4 issued under the Act of 1894. There is

nothing in the Statement of Objects and Reasons making specific

reference to non-payment of compensation where an award has been

made, and possession has been taken. While interpreting the

provisions of an Act, the court to consider the objects and reasons of

the legislature, which the legislature had in mind also emphasised that

once vesting is complete, there is no divesting as held in Workmen of

Dimakuchi Tea Estate v. Management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate 89, thus: 121. In Mukesh K. Tripathi v. Senior Divisional Manager, LIC & Ors.90 ,

the decision in Workmen of Dimakuchi Estate (supra) was reiterated, on

the issue of discerning the object of an enactment. 122. Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 deals with a situation only where

the award has been made 5 years or more before the commencement of

the Act, but physical possession of the land has not been taken, nor

compensation has been paid. It does not visualize a situation where

possession has been taken under the urgency provision of Section 17(1) ,

but the award has not been made. In such cases, under Section 24(1)(a) of the Act of 2013, there is no lapse of entire proceedings: but

compensation is to be determined in accordance with the provisions of

the Act of 2013. In case of urgency, possession is usually taken before

the award is passed. Thus, where no award is passed, where urgency

provision under Section 17(1) of the Act of 1894 had been invoked, there

is no lapse, only higher compensation would follow under Section

24(1)(a) even if payment has not been made or tendered under Section

17(3A) of the Act of 1894. 123. The provision for lapsing under Section 24 is available only when

the award has been made, but possession has not been taken within

five years, nor compensation has been paid. In case word 'or' is read

disjunctively, proceedings shall lapse even after possession has been

taken in order to prevent lapse of land acquisition proceedings, once the

90 (2004) 8 SCC 387 112 land has vested in the Government and in most cases, development has

already been made. The expressions used in Section 24(2) “possession

of the land has not been taken” and “the compensation has not been

paid” are unrelated and carry different consequences under the Act of

1894. As already discussed above, these conditions are merely exclusive

conditions and cannot be used as alternative conditions. There is a

catena of cases where compensation has been paid, but possession has

not been taken due to one reason or the other for no fault of authorities

or otherwise, and there are cases where possession is taken, but

compensation has not been paid. 124. Section 24 of the Act of 2013 is to be given full effect. Section 24(2) has been carved out as an exception to the otherwise general

applicability of the provisions contained in Section 6 of the General

Clauses Act and Section 24(1)(a) and (b) apply to the proceedings which

are pending. Sub-section (2) is an exception to sub-section (1) which

reads: "Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1)” where an

award has been made, but possession has not been taken nor

compensation has been paid, an exception has been carved in Section

24 where an award has been passed, but no steps have been taken to

take the possession nor payment of compensation has been made in

pending proceedings under Section 24(1) . The provision has to be

construed in the spirit behind what is saved under Section 6 (of the 113 General Clauses Act ) as provided in Section 114 of the Act of 2013 and

the non-obstante clause in Section 24(2) . 125. It was also submitted on behalf of the States that neither a

transitory provision nor a repealing law could be interpreted so as to

take away, disturb or adversely affect rights created by operation of law.

It cannot divest the State Government of the land absolutely vested in

it. Reliance has been placed on K.S. Paripoornan v. State of Kerala &

Ors91 thus: A) of Section 23 of the principal Act, as inserted by clause (a) of Section 15 of this Act, shall apply, and shall be deemed to have
 applied, also to, and in relation to,— (a) every proceeding for the acquisition of any land under the
 principal Act pending on 30th day of April, 1982 [the date of
 introduction of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Bill, 1982 in the
 House of the People], in which no award has been made by the
 Collector before that date; (b) every proceeding for the acquisition of any land under the
 principal Act commenced after that date, whether or not an award
 has been made by the Collector before the date of commencement
 of this Act. (2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 23 and Section 28 of the principal Act, as amended by clause (b) of Section 15 and Section 18 of this Act respectively, shall apply, and shall be
 deemed to have applied, also to, and in relation to, any award
 made by the Collector or Court or to any order passed by the High
 Court or Supreme Court in appeal against any such award under
 the provisions of the principal Act after the 30th day of April, 1982
 [the date of introduction of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Bill,
 1982, in the House of the People] and before the commencement
 of this Act. The date of the introduction of the Bill of the amending Act is 30-
 4-1982 and the date of its commencement is 24-9-1984.

91 1994 (5) SCC 593 114 *** 38. The transitional provision is by its very nature an enabling
one and has to be interpreted as such. In the present case, it is
made to take care of the period between 30-4-1982 and 24-9-
1984, i.e., between the date of the introduction of the Bill of the
amending Act and the date of the commencement of the Act. Since
some awards might have been made by the Collector and the
reference Court during the said interregnum, the legislature did
not want to deprive the awardees concerned either of the newly
conferred benefit of Section 23 (1-A) or of the increased benefit
under Sections 23(2) and 28 . The second object was to enable the
Collector and the Court to give the said benefits in the proceedings
pending before them where they had not made awards. The only
limitation that was placed on the power of the Collector in this
behalf was that he should not reopen the awards already made
by him in proceedings which were pending before him on 30-4-
1982 to give the benefit of Section 23 (1-A) to such awardees. This
was as stated earlier, for two reasons. If the said awards are
pending before the reference Court on the date of the
commencement of the amending Act, viz., 24-9-1984, the
reference Court would be able to give the said benefit to the
awardees. On the other hand, if the awardees in question had
accepted the awards, the same having become final, should not
be reopened. As regards the increased benefit under Sections
23(2) and 28 , the intention of the legislature was to extend it not
only to the proceedings pending before the reference Court on 24-
9-1984 but also to those where awards were made by the
Collector and the reference Courts between 30-4-1982 and 24-9-
1984. Hence these awards could not only be reopened but if they
were the subject-matter of the appeal before High Courts or the
Supreme Court, the appellate orders could also be reopened to
extend the said benefits. *** 71. Section 30 of the amending Act bears the heading
"Transitional provisions." Explaining the role of transitional
provisions in a statute, Bennion has stated: *** 105. In the present matter, one is concerned with transitional
 provision i.e. Section 85(2)(a) which enacts as to how the statute

92 2004 (7) SCC 288 116 will operate on the facts and circumstances existing on the date
 it comes into force and, therefore, the construction of such a
 provision must depend upon its own terms and not on the basis
 of Section 21 (see Singh, G.P.: Principles of Statutory
 Interpretation, 8th Edn., p. 188). In Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH v.
 Steel Authority of India Ltd. , (1999) 9 SCC 334 Section 48 of the
 old Act and Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act came for
 consideration. It has been held by this Court that there is a
 material difference between Section 48 of the 1940 Act, which
 emphasised the concept of “reference” vis-à-vis Section 85(2)(a)
 of the 1996 Act which emphasises the concept of
 “commencement”; that there is a material difference in the
 scheme of the two Acts; that the expression “in relation to”
 appearing in Section 85(2)(a) refers to different stages of
 arbitration proceedings under the old Act; and lastly, that Section
 85(2)(a) provides for limited repeal of the 1940 Act, therefore, I am
 of the view that one cannot confine the concept of
 “commencement” under Section 85(2)(a) only to Section 21 of the
 1996 Act which inter alia provides for commencement of arbitral
 proceedings from the date on which a request to refer a particular
 dispute is received by the respondent. …. *** 109. To sum up, in this case, the question concerns interpretation
 of transitional provisions; that Section 85(2)(a) emphasises the
 concept of “commencement” whereas Section 48 of the 1940 Act
 emphasised the concept of “reference”; that Section 85(2)(a)
 provides for implied repeal; that the scheme of the 1940 Act is
 different from the 1996 Act; that the word “reference” in Section
 48 of the old Act had different meanings in different contexts; and
 for the said reasons, I am of the view that while interpreting
 Section 85(2)(a) in the context of the question raised in this
 appeal, one cannot rely only on Section 21 of the 1996 Act.”
 (emphasis supplied) 127. Under Section 48 of the Act of 1894, withdrawal of the land

acquisition proceedings was permissible only if the possession has not

been taken under Section 16 or 17(1). Section 48(1) is extracted

hereunder: 128. Various decisions were referred on behalf of the State of Haryana

that once possession has been taken and land has not been utilised,

there cannot be withdrawal from the acquisition of any land. Land

cannot be restituted to the owner after the stage of possession is over.

Following decisions have been pressed into service: entered the land on account of the various interim orders granted
 by the courts, or even otherwise, it would have no effect for two
 reasons,
 (1) that the suits/petitions were ultimately dismissed and

95 (2009) 10 SCC 501 121 (2) that the land once having vested in the Government by
 virtue of Section 16 of the Act, re-entry by the landowner would
 not obliterate the consequences of vesting.”

 This court stated, in Leelawanti & Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors96 thus: 96 (2012) 1 SCC 66 122 129. Section 31 of the Act of 1894 is in pari materia with the provisions Section 77 of the Act of 2013; Section 34 (of the Act of1894) is pari

materia with Section 80 of the Act of 2013. Section 77 of the Act of 2013

deals with payment of compensation or deposit of the same in the

Authority. Section 77 is reproduced hereunder: 130. The Collector has to tender payment under Section 77(1) and to

pay the persons interested by depositing the amount in their bank

accounts unless prevented under Section 77(2) which are the same

contingencies as provided in Section 31(2) mentioned above. Section 80 of the Act of 2013 is pari materia to Section 34 of the Act of 1894, is

reproduced hereunder: 131. The provisions are identical concerning the rate of interest in case

there is a failure to make payment of compensation before taking

possession of the land. The award amount has to be paid @ 9% per

annum for the first year and after that @ 15% per annum. 132. Since the Act of 1894 never provide for the lapse in case the

compensation amount was not deposited, non-deposit carried higher

interest. The provisions under the new Act are identical: there is no

lapse of any acquisition proceeding by non-compliance with Section 77.

Interpreting "or" under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 disjunctively,

would result in an anomalous situation - because, once compensation

has been paid to the landowner, there is no provision for its refund. It

was fairly conceded on behalf of the landowners that they must return

the compensation in the case of lapse if possession has not been taken.

In case possession is with the landowner and compensation has been

paid, according to landowners’ submission, there is deemed lapse under Section 24(2) by reading the word “or” disjunctively. It would then be

open to the State Government to withdraw the money deposited in the

Reference Court. It was also submitted that it is inherent in the notion 124 of lapse that the State may recover the compensation on the ground of

restitution. In our opinion, the submissions cannot be accepted as an

anomalous result would occur. In case physical possession is with the

landowner; and compensation has been paid, there is no provision in the

Act for disgorging out the benefit of compensation. In the absence of any

provision for refund in the Act of 2013, the State cannot recover

compensation paid. The landowner would be unjustly enriched. This

could never have been the legislative intent of enacting Section 24(2) of

the Act of 2013. The principle of restitution, unless provided in the Act,

cannot be resorted to by the authorities on their own. The absence of

provision for refund in the Act of 2013 reinforces our conclusion that

the word "or" has to be read as conjunctively and has to be read as

"and." The landowners’ argument about the State’s ability to recover

such amounts, in the absence of any provision, by relying on the

principle of restitution, is without merit, because firstly such principle

is without any legal sanction. The State would have to resort to the

remedy of a suit, which can potentially result in litigation of enormous

proportions; besides, the landowners can well argue that the property

(i.e. the amounts) legally belonged to them and that the limitation for

claiming it back would have expired. Several other potential defences

would be available, each of which would result in multifarious litigation.

Therefore, the contention is ex-facie untenable and insubstantial. 125 133. It was submitted that in the case State had taken possession

without paying compensation as required under the Act of 1894, there

cannot be absolute vesting free from all encumbrances under Section 16. It is clear that vesting under Section 16 of the Act of 1894 does not

depend upon payment of compensation. Vesting takes place as soon as

possession is taken after the passing of the award. Undoubtedly,

compensation has also to be paid. For that, provisions have been made

in Sections 31 and 34 of the Act of 1894. Section 31(1) requires tender

and payment, which is making the money available to the landowner

and in case State is prevented: i.e., in case the landowner does not

consent to receive it for three other exigencies provided in Section 31(2) ,

the amount has to be deposited in the court. Deposit in the court

absolves the Government of liability to make payment of interest.

However, if payment is not tendered under Section 31(1) nor deposited

in court as envisaged under Section 31(2) from the date of taking

possession, the interest for the first year is 9% and thereafter 15% per

annum follows. The effect of vesting, under no circumstance, is taken

away due to non-compliance of Section 31(1) or 31(2) as the case may

be as the payment is secured along with interest under the provisions

of Section 34 read with Section 31 . The State cannot be asked to restore

possession once taken but in case it fails to make deposit under Section

31(3) or otherwise with respect to majority of the landholdings, in that

exigency, all the beneficiaries as on the date of notification under 126 Section 4 shall be entitled to higher compensation under the Act of 2013

and there would be no lapse in that case . 134. The landowners had complained that in some cases, under

various schemes, close to 80% of the compensation amount was not

handed over to the concerned Collector. It was also submitted that in

some of the schemes, 50% beneficiaries, for whose benefit the land had

been acquired, had not paid even a single rupee. Since this Court is not

deciding individual cases here, what is the effect of the interpretation of

the law, in the light of this decision, has to be considered in each and

every case. We refrain from commenting on the merits of the said

submissions as we are not deciding the cases on merits in the reference

made to us. Various aspects may arise on the merits of the case as the

schemes were framed at different points of time and the dates of

notifications under Section 4 issued thereunder, whether there is one

or different notifications and various other attendant circumstances

have to be looked into like whether possession has been taken or not,

to what extent compensation has been paid and whether proviso to Section 24(2) is attracted for the benefits of those entitled to it. In case

there is failure to deposit the compensation with respect to the majority

of the holdings, the facts have to be gauged in individual cases and then

decided. In re: Vesting and divesting 135. In Satendra Prasad Jain & Ors. v. State of U.P & Ors97 , the concept

of vesting under the Act of 1894 had been taken into consideration. The

Government cannot withdraw from acquisition under Section 48 , once

it has taken the possession. This Court has observed that once

possession has been taken under Section 17(1) , prior to the making of

the award, the owner is divested of the title to the land, which is vested

in the Government and there is no provision by which land can be

reverted to the owner. This Court has observed thus: When Section 17(1) is applied by reason of urgency, Government
 takes possession of the land prior to the making of the award

97 (1993) 4 SCC 369 128 under Section 11 and thereupon the owner is divested of the title
 to the land which is vested in the Government. Section 17(1) states so in unmistakable terms. Clearly, Section 11-A can have
 no application to cases of acquisitions under Section 17 because
 the lands have already vested in the Government and there is no
 provision in the said Act by which land statutorily vested in the
 Government can revert to the owner.”
 (emphasis supplied)

 This Court further observed in Satendra Prasad Jain (supra) that

even if compensation was not paid to the appellant under Section 17 (3-

A), it could not be said that possession was taken illegally. Vesting is

absolute. This Court has observed thus: 98 (2009) 10 SCC 689 129 was short of 80% and therefore, the acquisition should be set at
 naught. Such extreme interpretation cannot be afforded because
 indeed under Section 17 itself, the basic idea of avoiding the
 enquiry under Section 5-A is in view of the urgent need on the
 part of the State Government for the land to be acquired for any
 eventuality discovered by either sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
 of Section 17 of the Act. 93. The only question that would remain is that of the estimation
 of the compensation. In our considered view, even if the
 compensation is not paid or is short of 80%, the acquisition would
 not suffer. One could imagine the unreasonableness of the
 situation. Now suppose, there is state of emergency as
 contemplated in Section 17(2) of the Act and the compensation is
 not given, could the whole acquisition come to a naught? It would
 entail serious consequences. *** 95. Further, in a judgment of this Court in Pratap v. State of
 Rajasthan , (1996) 3 SCC 1 a similar view was reported. That was
 a case under the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1987 , under
 which the acquisition was made using Section 17 of the Act. The
 Court took the view that once the possession was taken under Section 17 of the Act, the Government could not withdraw from
 that position under Section 18 and even the provisions of Section
 11-A were not attracted. That was of course a case where the
 award was not passed under Section 11-A after taking of the
 possession. A clear-cut observation came to be made in that
 behalf in para 12, to the effect that the non-compliance with Section 17 of the Act, insofar as, payment of compensation is
 concerned, did not result in lapsing of the land acquisition
 proceedings. The law laid down by this Court in Satendra Prasad
 Jain v. State of U.P. , (1993) 4 SCC 369 was approved. The Court
 also relied on the decision in P. Chinnanna v. State of A.P. , (1994)
 5 SCC 486 and Awadh Bihari Yadav v. State of Bihar, (1995) 6
 SCC 31 where similar view was taken regarding the land
 acquisition proceedings not getting lapsed. The only result that
 may follow by the non-payment would be the payment of interest,
 as contemplated in Section 34 and the proviso added thereto by
 the 1984 Act. In that view, we do not wish to further refer the
 matter, as suggested by Shri Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel and
 Shri Qamar Ahmad, learned counsel for the appellants.
 Therefore, even on the sixth question, there is no necessity of any
 reference.”
 (emphasis supplied)

 It has further been observed that the only result that may follow

by the non-payment would be the payment of interest as contemplated

in Section 34 of the Act of 1894. 137. In Pratap & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors99 , this Court held that

when the possession of land is taken under Section 17(1) , the land vests

absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances and the

Government cannot withdraw from acquisition under Section 48 and

provisions of Section 11-A of passing the award within two years were

not attracted. The proceedings would not lapse on failure to make an

award within the period prescribed under Section 11-A, once possession

had been taken. The part payment of compensation would also not

render the possession illegal. This Court observed thus: 138. In Awadh Bihari Yadav & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors100 , question

was raised with respect to the lapse of acquisition proceedings in view

of the provisions contained in Section 11-A as award had not been made

within 2 years from the date of commencement of the Land Acquisition

Amendment Act, 1984. Possession had been taken by the Government

under Section 17(1) . It was held that it was not open to the Government

to withdraw from the acquisition. Provisions of Section 11-A was not

attracted. Following is the relevant portion of the observations made by

this Court: 139. In P. Chinnanna & Ors. v. State of A.P. & Ors. 101 question again

arose with respect to possession taken under Section 17(1) invoking

urgency clause, this Court has held that once possession is taken, there

is absolute vesting and subsequent proceedings were void. This Court

stated as follows: A not to apply, it was open to it to set aside or quash the
subsequent acquisition proceedings except Section 4(1) notification which had followed and restore the ownership of the
land to the appellants’ land if it had to order fresh enquiry on the
basis of Section 4(1) notification. Such a setting aside or quashing
was inevitable because the acquisition proceedings had been
completed under Section 17 and the land had vested in the State
Government, inasmuch as, without setting aside that vesting of
the land in the State Government and restoring the land to the
appellant-owners, that land was unavailable for subsequent
acquisition by following the procedure under Section 5-A, Section
6 , Section 11 and Section 16 . Thus in the circumstances of the
case in respect of the land of the appellants, when publication of Section 4(1) notification was made on 21-7-1977, when
declaration under Section 6 was published on 21-7-1977 and
taking possession of that land under Section 17(1) by the
Collector was made on 10-7-1978 and the vesting in the State
Government of that land had occurred on that day, setting aside
by the judgment of the High Court in WP No. 3416 of 1978 of
merely the direction given by the Government relating to non-
applicability of Section 5-A to the land, given on 7-7-1977, in our
view, did not enable to Court to order the starting of fresh
proceedings for acquisition of the land concerned under Section
5-A, inasmuch as, that land concerned on Section 4(1) notification
had already become the land of the Government. In this state of
facts, when the previous acquisition of the land of the appellants
made under Section 17 of the Act did never stood affected.
Section 5-A enquiry held and subsequent declaration made were
superfluous proceedings which were inconsequential. Hence, we
feel that there is no need to set aside the impugned declaration
inasmuch as the earlier acquisition was complete and had
resulted in vesting of the land in the State Government and there
was no land available for acquisition in the subsequent
proceedings which have been carried pursuant to the judgment
of the High Court made in WP No. 3416 of 1978. Therefore, in the
stated facts, although we find that no need arises to declare the
impugned declaration as void we clarify that the earlier
proceedings which had taken place in respect of the appellants’ 133 land, resulting in its vesting in the State Government free from
 encumbrances, has stood unaffected and any award made by
 the Collector or be made by him under the L.A. Act shall be
 regarded as that based on earlier acquisition proceedings.” 140. In May George v. Special Tahsildar & Ors.102 , this Court considered

the question to declare a provision mandatory, test is to be applied as

to whether non-compliance of the provision could render entire

proceedings invalid or not. This Court referred to various decisions

(which are referred to in the footnote103) and summarized the position

thus: matter and object of the statutory provisions in question. The
 Court may find out as to what would be the consequence which
 would flow from construing it in one way or the other and as to
 whether the statute provides for a contingency of the non-
 compliance with the provisions and as to whether the non-
 compliance is visited by small penalty or serious consequence

102( 2010) 13 SCC 98
103Dattatraya Moreshwar v. The State of Bombay and Ors. , AIR 1952 SC 181; State of U.P.
and Ors. v. Babu Ram Upadhya , AIR 1961 SC 751; Raza Buland Sugar Co. Ltd., Rampur v.
Municipal Board, Rampur , AIR 1965 SC 895; State of Mysore v. V.K. Kangan , AIR 1975 SC
2190; Sharif-Ud-Din v. Abdul Gani Lone , AIR 1980 SC 303; Balwant Singh and Ors. v. Anand
Kumar Sharma and Ors. , (2003) 3 SCC 433; Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar Mill Pvt.
Ltd. and Ors. , AIR 2003 SC 511; Chandrika Prasad Yadav v. State of Bihar and Ors. , AIR 2004
SC 2036; M/s. Rubber House v. Excellsior Needle Industries Pvt. Ltd. , AIR 1989 SC 1160; B.S.
Khurana and Ors. v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi and Ors. , (2000) 7 SCC 679; State of
Haryana and Anr. v. RaghubirDayal, (1995) 1 SCC 133; and GullipilliSowria Raj v. Bandaru
Pavani @ Gullipili Pavani , (2009) 1 SCC 714 134 would flow therefrom and as to whether a particular
 interpretation would defeat or frustrate the legislation and if the
 provision is mandatory, the act done in breach thereof will be
 invalid. *** 27. In G.H. Grant (Dr.) v. State of Bihar , AIR 1966 SC 237, this
 Court has held that if a “person interested” is aggrieved by the
 fact that some other person has withdrawn the compensation of
 his land, he may resort to the procedure prescribed under the Act
 or agitate the dispute in suit for making the recovery of the award
 amount from such person.”
 (emphasis supplied) 141. This Court opined, therefore, that once the land vests in the State,

it cannot be divested, even if there is some irregularity in the acquisition

proceedings. There is nothing in the Act of 1894 to show that non-

compliance thereof will be fatal or will lead to any penalty. 142. Now, coming back to the main issue, the legal fiction of lapsing

(under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013) cannot be extended to denude

title which has already vested in the beneficiaries of the acquisition

Corporation/Local Bodies, etc., and who, in turn, have also conveyed

title and transferred the land to some other persons after development. In Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. v. Modi Sugar Mills 104 the Court has

held that “A legal fiction must be limited to the purpose for which it has

been created and cannot be extended beyond its legitimate field.”

Similarly, in Braithwaite & Co. v. E.S.I.C105 , this Court held that a legal

fiction is adopted in law for a limited and definite purpose only and there

is no justification for extending it beyond the purpose for which the

legislature has adopted. Lapsing is provided only where possession has

104 1961 (2) SCR 189
105 1968 (1) SCR 771 135 not been taken nor compensation has been paid, divesting of vested

land is not intended nor specifically provided. 143. Black's Law Dictionary defines "vested" as follows: 144. In Webster's Dictionary, ‘vested’ is defined as: 145. In State of Punjab v. Sadhu Ram106 , it has been observed that once

possession is taken and the award has been passed, no title remains

with the landowner and the land cannot be de-notified under Section

48(1) and observed thus: 146. In Star Wire (India) Ltd. v. State of Haryana & Ors 107, it was

observed that once the award has been passed and possession has been

taken, the land vests in the State free from all encumbrances. This

Court held thus: 1976. Declaration under Section 6 of the Act was published on
 16-2-1977. The award was passed on 3-7-1981. Thereafter, the
 reference also become final. The petitioner has challenged the
 notification, the declaration, and the award as illegal. It contends
 that the award does not come in the way of the petitioner in filing
 the writ petition on 21-1-1994. The High Court has dismissed the
 writ petition on the grounds of laches.”

107 (1996) 11 SCC 698 137 147. A similar view has been taken in Market Committee v. Krishan

Murari108 and Puttu Lal (dead) by L.Rs. v. State of U.P. & Anr 109. The

concept of ‘vesting’ was also considered in The Fruit & Vegetable

Merchants Union v. The Delhi Improvement Trust110 . Once vesting takes

place, and is with possession, after which a person who remains in

possession is only a trespasser, not in rightful possession and vesting

contemplates absolute title, possession in the State. This court

observed thus: 148. This Court is of opinion that Section 24 of the Act of 2013 does

not intend to take away vested rights. This is because there is no specific

provision taking away or divesting title to the land, which had originally

vested with the State, or divesting the title or interest of beneficiaries or

third-party transferees of such land which they had lawfully acquired,

through sales or transfers. There is a specific provision made for

divesting, nor does the Act of 2013 by necessary intendment, imply

such a drastic consequence. Divesting cannot be said to have been

intended. Here, the decision in VKNM Vocational Higher Secondary

School v. State of Kerala111 is relevant; it was observed as follows by this

Court: 149. The decision in State of Haryana v. Hindustan Construction Co.

Ltd112 , is relied upon to contend that the line of enquiry is not to enquire

if the new enactment has by its new provisions kept alive the rights and

liabilities under the repealed law or whether it has taken away those

rights and liabilities. When repeal is followed by a fresh enactment on

the same subject, the provisions of the General Clauses Act would

undoubtedly require an examination of the language of the new

enactment if it expresses an intent different from the earlier repealed

Act. The enquiry would necessitate the examination if the old rights

and liabilities are kept alive or whether the new Act manifests an

intention to do away with or destroy them. If the new Act manifests

different intentions, the application of the General Clauses Act will

stand excluded. 150. We have examined the provisions of Section 24 of the Act of 2013

in the light of the said pleas and thereafter arrived at our conclusions

as to when and to what extent proceedings lapsed or/and were saved

and what liabilities have been taken away and to what extent there is

obliteration of the rights acquired and liabilities incurred earlier under

the Act of 1894 and what is done away or destroyed by the new Act.

112 (2017) 9 SCC 463 140 151. The Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 is to be interpreted consistent

with the legislative intent, particularly when it has provided for the lapse

of the proceedings. It has to be interpreted in the light of provisions

made in Sections 24 and 114 of the Act of 2013 and Section 6 of the

General Clauses Act, what it protects and to what extent it takes away

the rights of the parties. Undoubtedly, Section 24(2) has retroactive

operation with respect to the acquisitions initiated under the Act of

1894 and which are not completed by taking possession nor

compensation has been paid in spite of lapse of 5 years and proceedings

are kept pending due to lethargy of the officials. The drastic

consequences follow by the provisions contained in Section 24(2) in

such cases. 152. For considering the legislative intent, Bennion, Statutory

Interpretation, 5th Edition (2012) has been referred to, in which it has

been observed: 153. Another decision in Lauri v. Renad113, has been referred to in

which it was observed that a statute is not to be construed so as to have

a greater retrospective operation than its language renders necessary.

Following observations have been relied upon: 154. In Yamashita-Shinnihon Steamship Co. Ltd. (supra) the House of

Lords has observed that question of the extent of retrospectivity would

also be dependent upon the degree of unfairness it causes to the parties.

It has been observed: The rule also applies, but with less force, outside the criminal
 sphere. It is again expressed in maxims, lex prospicit non respicit
 and omnis nova constitutio futuris temporibus formam imponere
 debet non praeteritis. The French Civil Code provides that “La loi
 ne dipose que pour l’avenir; elle n’a point d’effet retroactif:”
 ….. But both these passages draw attention to an important point,
 that the exception only applies where application of it would not
 cause unfairness or injustice. This is consistent with the general
 rule or presumption which is itself based on considerations of
 fairness and justice, as shown by the passage in Maxwell quoted,
 ante, p. 494C-E, and recently emphasised by Staughton LJ in
 Secretary of State for Social Security v. Tunnicliffe [1991] 2 All
 E.R. 712, 724: (Pearce v. Secretary of State for Defence [1988] A.C 755, 802C) or
"a fundamental rule of English law" (Lauri v. Renad [1892] 3 Ch.
402, 421, Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 12th ed., p.
215, cited with approval in Carson v. Carson and Stoyek [1964]
1 W.L.R 511, 516-517). (2) The principle is that a statute or statutes will not be interpreted
so as to have a retrospective operation unless (i) “that result is
unavoidable on the language used” (Yew Bon Tew, at pp. 558F,
563D-E) or “that effect cannot be avoided without doing violence
to the language of the enactment: (In re Athlumney, Ex parte
Wilson [1898] 2 Q.B 547, 552) or “its language is such as plainly
to require such a construction” (Lauri v. Renad, at p. 421); or (ii)
“they expressly or by necessary implication to provide: see Yew
Bon Tew, at p. 558F” (Pearce v. Secretary of State for Defence
[1988] A.C 755, 802C-D) or “such a construction appears very
clearly in the terms of the Act, or arises by necessary and distinct
implication” (Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 12th ed.,
p.215]

(3) “if the enactment is expressed in language which is fairly
capable of either interpretation, it ought to be construed as
prospective only” (In re Athlumney, at p. 552). (4) If the statute does have some retrospective operation on the
basis of the above principles, it is not to be construed as having
greater retrospective operation “than its language renders
necessary” (Lauri v. Renad, at p. 421) or “than is necessary to
give effect either to its clear language or to its manifest purpose”
(Arnold v. Central Electricity Generating Board [1988] A.C 228, 275.

The absence of express limiting words cannot be used as a basis
for implying retrospective operation. That would reverse the true
presumption. A necessary and distinct implication typically
arises in the context of a statute that, by repealing a previous
statute, would leave a “lacuna” in the law if the new statute were
not to be construed as having retrospective effect: see, e.g., Food
Corporation of India v. Marastro Compania Naviera S.A. [1987] 1
W.L.R. 134, 152. The particular problem in the present case is a
transitional problem only, applicable only to those arbitrators that
are stale as at 1 January 1992, in respect of which applications
to strike out are made shortly thereafter. In the future, such
claimants will either continue to be dilatory or not, in which case
the references will proceed to a conclusion. The concern of the
legislature, and the mischief at which the section was aimed, was
not a limited number of existing stale arbitrations but future
arbitrations. Moreover, although the mischief at which the section
was aimed is not to be ignored, one should start by looking at the
words themselves: see Chebaro v. Chebaro [1987] Fam. 127,
130, 134-135. It would be unfair to a claimant to give a retrospective operation
to section 13A. So far as claimants in existing arbitrations are
concerned, they may well have been (correctly) advised prior to 1
January 1992 that they could proceed slowly with the claim
without risk of having their claims dismissed by reason of such
delay. A retrospective application of the statute would expose
him to a penalty on the strength of conduct not susceptible to
penalty when committed. It would not, however, be unfair to a
respondent to limit section 13A to delay occurring after 1 January 144 1992. Even if such delay were causative of prejudice or the risk
 of an unfair resolution of the dispute, under the existing law laid
 down in Bremer Vulkan a respondent should have been aware
 that it was a respondent’s obligation (as well as a claimant’s) to
 seek directions from the arbitrator to ensure a speedy resolution
 of disputes: see the Hannah Blumenthal case [1983] 1 A.C. 854,
 923H. A retrospective alteration to the legitimate expectations of
 the parties as to the consequences of their conduct at the time it
 occurred would be contrary to the principles of legal and
 commercial certainty that formed part of the grounds on which
 the House of Lords declined in Hannah Blumenthal to depart from
 Bermer Vulkan: see pp. 913C, 917D, 922H.”
 (emphasis supplied) 155. Reliance was placed on Gloucester Union v. Woolwich Union114 ,

with respect to effect on existing rights wherein following observations

have been made: 156. In The King v. The General Commissioners of Income Tax for

Southampton115 it was observed: 157. In K.S. Paripoornan (supra), it was observed that in the case of

retrospective operation the Court has to consider the effect on existing

rights and obligations and for that purpose, the intention of the

legislature has to be ascertained as indicated in the statute itself. This

court observed that: 158. In Zile Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. , (supra), this Court has

observed that the rule against retrospectivity does not extend to protect

from the effect of a repeal, a privilege which did not amount to the

accrued right. This court, while dealing with retrospectivity of a statute,

observed that retrospectivity must be reasonable and not excessive or

harsh; otherwise, it runs the risk of being struck down for being

unconstitutional. Following observations have been made: There is no fixed formula for the expression of legislative intent to
 give retrospectivity to an enactment. A validating clause coupled
 with a substantive statutory change is only one of the methods to
 leave actions unsustainable under the unamended statute,
 undisturbed. Consequently, the absence of a validating clause 148 would not by itself affect the retrospective operation of the
 statutory provision, if such retrospectivity is otherwise apparent.” 159. This Court has considered the harsh consequences of

retrospective operation of the statute in Commissioner of Income Tax-19,

Mumbai v. Sarkar Builders116 and observed thus: 26.5. It is the cardinal principle of interpretation that a
 construction resulting in unreasonably harsh and absurd results
 must be avoided. 26.6. Clause (d) makes it clear that a housing project includes
 shops and commercial establishments also. But from the day the
 said provision was inserted, they wanted to limit the built-up area
 of shops and establishments to 5% of the aggregate built-up area
 or 2000 sq ft, whichever is less. However, the legislature itself
 felt that this much commercial space would not meet the
 requirements of the residents. Therefore, in the year 2010,
 Parliament has further amended this provision by providing that
 it should not exceed 3% of the aggregate built-up area of the
 housing project or 5000 sq ft, whichever is higher. This is a
 significant modification making complete departure from the
 earlier yardstick. On the one hand, the permissible built-up area
 of the shops and other commercial shops is increased from 2000
 sq ft to 5000 sq ft. On the other hand, though the aggregate built-
 up area for such shops and establishment is reduced from 5% to
 3%, what is significant is that it permits the builders to have 5000
 sq ft or 3% of the aggregate built-up area, “whichever is higher”.
 In contrast, the provision earlier was 5% or 2000 sq ft, “whichever
 is less”.”

 (emphasis supplied) 160. This Court in Jawarharmal (supra) and Rai Ramkrishna (supra),

has considered the practical realities before analysing the extent of

retrospective operation of the statute. Several decisions were cited in

regard to conflict of interest (which are referred to in the footnote

hereafter117) and it was urged that the rule of construction that is to be

adopted is one of purposive interpretation. 117 Southern Electricity Supply Co. of Orissa Ltd. v. Sri Seetaram Rice Mill, (2012) 2 SCC 108
@ 19-21; Tinsukhia Electric Supply Company Ltd. v. State of Assam & Ors. , (1989) 3 SCC 709
@ para 118-121; C.I.T. v. Hindustan Bulk Carriers , (2003) 3 SCC 57 @ para 14-21; D. Saibaba
v. Bar Council of India & Ors. , (2003) 6 SCC 186 @ para 16-18; Balram Kamanat v. Union
of India, (2003) 7 SCC 628 para 24; New India Assurance Co. v. Nulli Nivelle, (2008) 3 SCC
279 @ Para 51-54; Government of Andhra Pradesh &Ors. v. Smt. P. Laxmi Devi , (2008) 4
SCC 720 Para 41 & 42.; Entertainment Network (India) Ltd. v. Super Cassette Industries Ltd. ,
(2008) 13 SCC 30 para 132-137; N. Kannadasan v. Ajoy Khose and Ors. , (2009) 7 SCC 1 para
54-67; H.S. Vankani v. State of Gujarat , (2010) 4 SCC 301 para 43-48; State of Madhya
Pradesh v. Narmada Bachao Andolan & Ors. , (2011) 7 SCC 639 para 78-85; State of Gujarat
& Anr. v. Hon’ble Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta (Retd.) and Ors., (2013) 3 SCC 1: para 96-98). 150 In re: Legislative History of Act of 2013 161. The Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill, 2011

(Bill No.77 of 2011) was introduced in the Parliament. The provisions

of Section 24 , as introduced in the said Bill, read as under: 162. It is apparent from Section 24(1) , as introduced originally,

contained a provision with respect to award, which has not been made,

but it was later on amended, and now as provided in Section 24(1)(a) ,

there is no lapse and only higher compensation is available in case

award has not been passed. The earlier Section 24(2) contained only

the provision with respect to possession of the land that has not been

taken. Earlier, there was no time limit prescribed, and it was proposed

that the process for acquisition of land shall lapse. Clause 24 of Notes on clauses of Bill read thus: 163. After considering the various suggestions of the State

Government, the Committee made some recommendations, which are

extracted hereunder: 164. Debates in the Lok Sabha on 29.8.2013, were referred to during

the hearings, to cite various reasons given in respect of the question

why effect should be given retrospectively in cases where acquisition

has not been completed. Shri Jairam Ramesh, Minister concerned at

the relevant time, replied to debate about the retrospective part with

respect to Section 24 thus: 165. It is clear that while replying to the debate, the Minister concerned

has stated that there would be lapse only if in case possession has not

been taken and compensation has not been paid. The emphasis right

from the beginning was on possession. Thus, from the perusal of debate

too, it is apparent that the word "or" had been understood as “and”.

In Re: Objectives of the Act 166. It was submitted on behalf of the landowners that the

consideration of difficulties, harsh consequences, the importance of

performance, time lost during litigation, revival of stale claims would

not permit deviation from the mandate of the law of Section 24 . If

obligations are mandatory, then also intendment of the Act cannot be

defeated. As such, it is the duty of the court to disregard such factors

and to give contextual interpretation to the intendment. The language

of the statute, wherever the context requires, its objects and reasons,

the Preamble, its legislative history as well as the accompanying

provisions (including the relevant provisions of the old Act) are to be

considered by the court. In Arnit Das v. State of Bihar118 , the court

observed that the ambiguity in the definition of “juvenile” is to be

resolved by taking into consideration the Preamble and the statement 118 2000 (5) SCC 488 153 of objects and reasons. Burrakur Coal Co. Ltd. v. Union of India119 and A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar v. M. Venkatachalam Potti120 . During the

hearing, the State had also relied on other decisions to say that where

the issue had attained finality, relief ought not to be granted.121 The Act of 2013 has been enacted considering the difficulties caused by the

operation of the earlier laws and to subserve the public interest. Thus,

the Court should interpret it in the context of the attendant

circumstances. At the same time, the court should not, while ostensibly

adopting a purposive or liberal interpretation, affect matters which have

become final, or stale. In Popat Bahiru Govardhane & Ors. (supra) this

aspect, in the context of limitation provisions, was highlighted in the

following terms: v. Special Land Acquisition Officer & Anr., 2013 (10) SCC 765; B. Premanand & Ors. v.
Mohan Koikal & Ors. , ( 2011) 4 SCC 266 and Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar Mill (P)
Ltd. & Ors. , (2003) 2 SCC 111 154 In Re: proviso to Section 24(2) 167. In reference to the question whether the proviso is part of section

24(2) or Section 24(1) , it was submitted on behalf of the acquiring

authorities and the States that the proviso needs to be read along with

the main provision of section 24(2) and cannot be read with section

24(1)(b) . It was pointed out that this Court has taken the view in Delhi

Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Tarun Pal Singh & Ors. , (2018) 14 SCC 161

that the proviso should be read as part of section 24(2) of the Act of

2013, cannot be construed as proviso to section 24(1)(b) whereas in Delhi Development Authority v. Virender Lal Bahri & Ors. (supra), a

different view has been taken while referring the matter, and it has been

observed that it should be treated as a proviso to section 24(1)(b) and

not to section 24(2) . As the interpretation of section 24(2) is involved in

the matter, it is absolutely necessary to socio-justice and whether the

proviso is part of section 24(2) or has to be read as an independent

provision or it has to be treated as part of the proviso to section 24(1)(b) ,

the question is required to be decided as it arises for the purpose of the

very provisions of section 24(2) . 168. It was submitted that the statutory provisions are to be read as

they exist. Relocation of a proviso by the interpretive process, resulting

in its placement at a different place is a drastic judicial measure which

can be adopted in rarest of rare cases, and such an exercise may

amount to encroaching upon the legislative field or causing violence to 155 the plain language used by the legislature. By the proviso, Parliament

has tried to balance the competitive new rights, and the proviso cannot

be lifted and bodily placed at a different place. It was also submitted on

behalf of the acquiring authorities that as the Section 24 (1(b) ends with

a 'full stop' (.) Section 24 (2) ends with a colon (:). These punctuation

marks leave no room for any doubt that Parliament consciously used

the proviso as an exception to section 24(2) . The placement of the

proviso needs no further comparative rules of interpretation. There is a

very clear indication of legislative intent in section 24(2) itself.

Punctuation plays a vital role in interpretation if some ambiguity is

there in its interpretation. It is argued that punctuations play a very

important role in interpreting statutes if some ambiguity is raised in its

interpretation. Considering the use of a particular punctuation mark is

an accepted method of statutory interpretation. 169. Considering the use of punctuation marks, as a statutory mode of

interpretation, full stop means the particular sentence ends and stands

detached from the next part. It was also submitted that the proviso is

to be read together with the main provision to which it is attached. 170. On the other hand, it was submitted on behalf of the landowners

that the proviso does not refer to the main factors of lapse under section

24(2) . The proviso is not an exemption from lapsing if it is read as part

of Section 24(2) , then the absurd consequences would follow. The

proviso is in accord with section 24(1)(b) and has to be read as part of 156 it. Reliance has been placed on D.D.A. v. Virendra Lal Bahri & Ors. (supra). It was submitted that the proviso could not have been intended

to be part of section 24(2) dealing with lapsing of acquisition where the

subject-matter of the proviso is wholly unrelated to physical possession

of the land, but only relating to compensation not being deposited. It

was also submitted that if the proviso is read with section 24(2) ,

arbitrary results will follow. The proviso would be arbitrary and liable to

be struck down under Article 14 of the Constitution. In case notification

under section 4 applies only to a single plot of land or single owner, the

conditions of section 24(2) are not fulfilled acquisition would lapse, and

in a case where several pieces of land have been acquired, if

compensation in respect of majority landholdings has not been

deposited, such acquisition will not lapse, but only higher

compensation under the Act of 2013 would be paid. The words “award

being made five years or more prior to the commencement of the Act” are

absent in the proviso. Reading these words to proviso would do violence

to the literal language, and its plain meaning proviso and being a

beneficial provision must be construed in the way which furthers its

performance. It was also submitted that in respect of large chunks of

land carved out by the same notification, the compensation in respect

of the majority of landholdings has been deposited. In such a case no

lapse will take place because the proviso in such a case will not apply

and whether in respect of the majority of landholdings, compensation 157 has or has not been deposited, would have no bearing on the issue

whether lapsing does or does not take place under section 24(2) .

With respect to the proviso, various questions arise for consideration. (a) Interpretation: 171. The main question is whether under the scheme of section 24 the

proviso is treated as part of Section 24(1)(b) or it is part of the exception

carved out in section 24(2) particularly in view of the fact that the word

'or' has been interpreted by us as 'and.' In that context, when Delhi

Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Tarun Pal Singh & Ors122 as well as when

the question was considered in Delhi Development Authority v. Virender

Lal Bahri & Ors., [SLP [C] No.37375/2016 ], the question did not come

up for consideration in any of the matters whether ‘or’ in two negative

conditions in Section 24(2) has to be read conjunctively or disjunctively.

When we read the word “or” as 'and' in the main part of section 24(2) , it

is clear that the proviso has to stay as part of section 24(2) where it has

been placed by the legislature, and only then it makes sense. If 'or' used

in-between two negative conditions of 'possession has not been taken' or

'compensation has not been paid,' disjunctively , in that case , the proviso

cannot be operative and would become otiose and would make no sense

as part of Section 24(2) . In case of amount not having been paid the

acquisition has to lapse, though possession (of the land) has been taken

would not be the proper interpretation of the main part as mentioned 122 (2018) 14 SCC 161 158 above, when “or” is read conjunctively, section 24(2) provided for lapse

in a case where possession has not been taken, nor compensation has

been paid, in such a case proviso becomes operative in given exigency

of not depositing amount with respect to majority of landholdings. 172. A reading of section 24(2) shows that in case possession has been

taken even if the compensation has not been paid, the proceedings shall

not lapse. In case payment has not been made nor deposited with

respect to the majority of the holdings in the accounts of the

beneficiaries, then all the beneficiaries specified in the notification

under Section 4 of the Act of 1894 shall get the enhanced compensation

under the provisions of the Act of 2013. Section 24(2) not only deals

with failure to take physical possession but also failure to make

payment of compensation. If both things have not been done, there is

lapse of the acquisition proceeding. But where payment has been made

though possession has been taken or payment has been made to some

of the persons but not to all, and it has also not been deposited as

envisaged in the proviso, in that event all beneficiaries (under the same

award) shall get higher compensation. This is because once possession

is been taken, there can be no lapse of the proceedings, and higher

compensation is intended on failure to deposit the compensation. Once

an award has been passed and possession has been taken, there is

absolute vesting of the land, as such higher compensation follows under

the proviso, which is beneficial to holders. In a case where both the 159 negative conditions have not been fulfilled, as mentioned in section

24(2) , there is a lapse. Thus, the proviso, in our opinion is a wholesome

provision and is, in fact, a part of section 24(2) ; it fits in the context of section 24(2) as deposit is related with the payment of compensation

and lapse is provided due to non-payment along with not taking

possession for five years or more whereas for non-deposit higher

compensation is provided. Thus, when one of the conditions has been

satisfied in case payment has been made, or possession has not been

taken, there is no lapse of the proceedings as both the negative

conditions must co-exist. 173. When we consider the provisions of section 24(1)(b) where an

award has been passed under section 11 of the Act of 1894, then such

proceedings shall continue under the provisions of the said Act as if it

has not been repealed. The only exception carved out is the period of 5

years or more and that too by providing a non-obstante clause in Section 24(2) to anything contained in section 24(1) . The non-obstante

clause qualifies the proviso also to Section 24(2) . It has to be read as

part of Section 24(2) as it is an exception to Section 24(1)(b) . In our

opinion, Section 24(1)(b) is a self-contained provision, and is also a part

of the non-obstante clause to the other provisions of the Act as provided

in sub-section (1). Parliament worked out an exception, by providing a

non-obstante clause in section 24(2) , to Section 24(1) . Compensation is

to be paid under Section 24(1)(b) under the Act of 1894 and not under 160 the Act of 2013. As such Section 24 (2) is an exception to section 24(1)(b) and the proviso is also an exception which fits in with non-obstante

clause of Section 24 (2) only. Any other interpretation will be derogatory

to the provisions contained in Section 24(1)(b) which provides that the

pending proceedings shall continue under the Act of 1894 as if it had

not been repealed, that would include the part relating to compensation

too. Even if there is no lapse of proceedings under section 24(1)(a) , only

higher compensation follows under Section 24(1)(a) . Section 24(2) deals

with the award having been made five years or before the

commencement of the new Act. The legislative history also indicates/it

was intended that five years' period should be adequate to make

payment of compensation and to take possession. In that spirit, the

proviso has been carved out as part of section 24(2) . Thus when

Parliament has placed it at a particular place, by a process of reasoning,

there can be no lifting and relocation of the provision. To bodily lift it

would be an impermissible exercise. Unless it produces absurd results

and does not fit in the scheme of the Act and the provisions to which it

is attached such an interpretation, doing violence to the express

provision, is not a legitimate interpretative exercise. There is no need to

add it as the proviso to Section 24(1)(b) as it has not been done by the

legislature, and it makes sense where it has been placed. It need not be

lifted. (b) Punctuation used in Section 24(2) : 174. Parliament has used the full stop (.) after section 24(1) and colon

(:) after section 24(2) . It cannot be gainsaid that punctuation plays a

vital role, particularly when an attempt is made to relocate any part of

the provision. The use of the colon is to introduce a sub-clause that

follows logically from the text before it. We are examining this aspect of

the colon, additionally. Though as the interpretation of the provision of Section 24(2) and its proviso needs no further deliberation regarding its

placement, the same is to be read as a proviso to Section 24(2) and not Section 24(1)(b) . Use of punctuation colon reinforces our conclusion and

punctuation mark has been an accepted method of statutory

interpretation when such a problem arises. Though sometimes

punctuation can be ignored also but not generally. The full stop after section 24(1)(b) expresses deliberate intent to end a particular sentence

and detach it from the next part. With regard to the meaning of the

punctuation colon, the University of Oxford Style Guide states as under: 175. The note of the University of England “Writing Correctly” has also

been relied upon on behalf of the State of Haryana. Following discussion

has been made: 176. It is clear that the colon (:) has a reference to the previous

statement and enlarges the same and extends the meaning of the

sentence. The colon indicates that the text is intrinsically linked to the

previous provision preceding it, i.e., Section 24(2) in this case and not section 24(1) . The colon indicates that what follows. The colon proves,

explains, defines describes or lists elements of what precedes it. In case

the proviso is bodily lifted and placed after section 24 (1(b), section 24(2) will end with a "colon," which is never done to end a provision. Certain

decisions have been referred to saying that importance and weightage

are to be given to punctuation marks. The earlier view was that

punctuations were added by the proof readers, and the Acts passed by

Parliament did not contain any punctuation. However, it was submitted

that in the past century, the English courts realised that the drafts

placed before the Parliament also carry punctuations and, thus, it is

important to give meaning to the same. Bennion on Statutory

Interpretation has this to say regarding punctuation marks: 177. In Marshall v. Cottingham123 [1982] Ch 82 at 88, at 12 while

referring to the change of position and establishing that punctuation

may be used in interpretation, it was held that: 178. Other decisions were also cited.126 On similar lines, the American

approach to the interpretation of punctuations is different. In Taylor v.

Caribou127 , it was held as under: 179. In Jamshed N. Guzdar (supra) this court held that: The expression ‘administration of justice’ occurring in Entry 3 of
 List II of the VIIth Schedule has to be construed in its widest sense
 so as to give power to the State Legislature to legislate on all
 matters relating to administration of justice. After the words 'administration of justice' in Entry 3 there is a
 semicolon, and this punctuation cannot be discarded as being
 inappropriate. The punctuation has been put with a definite
 object of making this topic as distinct and not having relation only
 to the topic that follows thereafter. Under Entry 78 of List I, the
 topic of jurisdiction and powers of the High Courts is not dealt
 with. Under Entry 3 of List II the State Legislature can confer
 jurisdiction and powers or restrict or withdraw the jurisdiction
 and powers already conferred on any of the courts except the
 Supreme Court, in respect of any statute. Therefore, the State
 Legislature has the power to make a law with respect to the
 jurisdiction and powers of the High Court.” 180. There are several other decisions, which support the proposition

that punctuation marks, especially colons have a significant role in the

interpretation of words in a statute. These judgments include Falcon 167 Tyres Ltd. v. State of Karnataka128 . It was submitted that the semicolon

after the word “cotton” did not mean that the first part of the section

was disjunctive from “such produce” as has been subjected to any

physical, chemical or other process. It was further submitted that

punctuation is not a safe tool in construction of statute and if the first

part of the section is read as disjunctive from the other part it conflicts

with Sl. No. 2 in the Second Schedule. Further it was submitted that

definition section which is the interpretation clause to the statute

begins with the expression “unless the context otherwise requires”. This

court held that: 181. Aswini Kumar Ghose & Anr (supra) also dealt with full stops and

held that as long as punctuation does not detract from the meaning of

the words in the text, it can be a controlling factor in interpretation. In State of West Bengal v. Swapan Kumar Guha and Ors 130, this court

observed that grammar and punctuation are hapless victims of the pace

of life and sometimes are used both as a matter of convenience and of

meaningfulness. Besides, how far a clause which follows upon a comma

governs every clause that precedes the comma is a matter not free from

doubt. This Court observed that: 182. The present case involves placement of colon preceding to the

Proviso to Section 24 (2) and not Section 24 (1) , which ends with a full

stop, and it makes sense and the true meaning where Parliament has

placed it. The proviso is part of section 24(2) . It is not permissible to

alter the provision and to read it as a proviso to section 24(1)(b) , mainly

when it makes sense where Parliament so placed it. To read the proviso

as part of section 24(1)(b) , will create repugnancy which the provisions

contained in section 24(1)(b) . The window period of 5 years is provided

to complete the acquisition proceedings where the award has been

passed, and the provisions of the Act of 1894 shall be applied as if it

has not been repealed. Section 24(2) starts with a non-obstante clause;

it plainly is notwithstanding Section 24 (1) , and the proviso to section

24(2) enlarges the scope of section 24(2) . When the window period has

been provided under section 24(1)(b) , i.e., section 24(2) and its proviso,

higher compensation cannot follow in case of an award which has been 170 passed within 5 years of the enactment of the Act of 2013 otherwise

anomalous results shall accrue. In case proviso is read as a part of section 24(1)(b) , it would be repugnant to the consideration of the

provision which has been carved out saving acquisition and providing

window period of 5 years to complete the acquisition proceedings. There

were cases under the Act of 1894, in which award may have been made

in December 2013, a few days before the Act was enforced on 1.1.2014.

As the provisions of the Act of 1894 are applicable to such awards,

obviously notice of the award has to be given under Section 12 of the

said Act. There is no question of outright deposit. In such event as the

deposit is to be made when the Collector is prevented by the exigencies

specified in Section 31(2) from making payment. The deposit is not

contemplated directly either in the court or the treasury, as the case

may be as provided in section 31(2) , corresponding to section 77(2) of

the Act of 2013. 183. The proviso relates to the non-payment. Compensation is

deposited when the Collector is prevented from making payment. It is

the obligation made under section 31(1) to tender the amount and pay

unless prevented by the contingencies specified in section 31(2) . Thus,

the deposit has a co-relation with the expression "payment has not been

made," and the proviso makes sense with Section 24 (2) only. In case of

non-payment or prevention from payment, compensation is required to 171 be deposited as the case may be in the Reference Court or otherwise in

Treasury, if permissible. 184. The proviso uses the expression that the amount is to be deposited

in the account of beneficiaries. Earlier under the Act of 1894, there was

no such provision for depositing the amount in the bank account of

beneficiaries but the method which was used as per the forms which

were prescribed to deposit the amount, it was credited to the Reference

Court or in the Treasury in the names of the beneficiaries and as against

the award. It was not a separate account but an account of the

Reference Court or set apart in the treasury. The proviso has to be

interpreted and given the meaning with Section 24(2) as an amount was

required to be paid and on being prevented had to be deposited as

envisaged under the Act of 1894. 185. If we hold that even if the award has been passed within 5 years

and the compensation amount has not been deposited with respect to

such an award passed in the window period, higher compensation to

follow if it is not deposited with respect to the majority of the holdings

would amount to re-writing the statute. The provision of section 24(1)(a) is clear if an award has not been passed, higher compensation to follow.

No lapse is provided. In case award has been passed within the window

period of section 24(1)(b) , inter alia, the provisions for compensation

would be that of the Act of 1894. The only exception to section 24(1) is 172 created by the non-obstante clause in section 24(2) by providing that in

case the requisite steps have not been taken for 5 years or more, then

there is lapse as a negative condition. The proviso contemplates higher

compensation, in case compensation has not been paid, and the

amount has not been deposited with respect to the majority of the

holdings, to all the beneficiaries under the Act of 2013, who were

holding land on the date of notification under Section 4 . If the proviso

is added, section 24(1)(b) will destroy the very provision of section

24(1)(b) providing proceedings to continue under the Act of 1894, which

is not the function of the proviso to substitute the main Section but to

explain it. It is not to cause repugnancy with the main provision. The

function of the proviso is to explain or widen the scope. It is a settled

proposition of law that the proviso cannot travel beyond the provision

to which it is attached. The proviso would travel beyond the Act of 1894

as it is the intention of section 24(1)(b) the proceedings to govern by the

Act of 1894. Thus, the proviso has no space to exist with section

24(1)(b) , and it has rightly not been attached by Parliament, with Section 24(2) and has been placed at the right place where it should

have been. 186. It is in the cases where there is no lapse under section 24(2) if

either step has been taken proviso operates to provide higher

compensation. In the cases where possession has been taken, but the

amount has not been deposited as required under the proviso, higher 173 compensation to all the beneficiaries has to follow as once possession

has been taken, the land is vested in the State and payment is necessary

for any acquisition. As such, Parliament has provided in such cases

higher compensation to follow as envisaged in the proviso to section

24(2) . Lapse of acquisition is provided only in the exigencies where

possession has not been taken, nor compensation has been paid in the

proceedings for acquisition pending as on the date on which the Act of

2013 came into force, then the State Government has to initiate fresh

proceedings if it so desires. The proviso is part of the scheme of section

24(2) , and the entire provision of section 24(2) , including the proviso,

operates when inaction is there for a period of 5 years or more, as

contemplated therein. 187. The fundamental consideration is that the proviso cannot

supersede the main provision of section 24(1)(b) and destroy it. The

function of the proviso is to except out the pressing provisions to which

it is attached. In case possession has been taken, but only a few

beneficiaries have been paid, there is no lapse. Even if nobody has been

paid, there is no lapse once possession has been taken. In case

compensation has not been deposited with respect to the majority of the

holdings, there is no lapse, but higher compensation to all the

beneficiaries has to follow. The provision provides equal treatment to

all, not only to a few- and, in effect, is similar to Section 28A of the Act

of 1894- in case the obligation to pay or deposit has not been discharged 174 and there is no arrangement of money to discharge the obligation either

by paying or depositing in the Reference Court and, if permissible, in

the treasury. Section 24(2) saves land which has been vested in the

State, once award has been passed and possession of land. However, in

case compensation has not been deposited with respect to majority of

landowners, in any given award, all beneficiaries have to be paid higher

compensation under the new Act. 188. It was urged that section 24(1) and 24(2) deal with different

subjects. It was submitted that Section 24(1) deals with compensation,

whereas section 24(2) deals with the lapsing of the acquisition. We are

unable to accept the submission. Section 24(2) also deals with payment

of compensation and taking of possession. Section 24(1)(a) is

concerning a situation where no award has been made, higher

compensation under the new Act to follow. In section 24(1)(b) where the

award is made (at the time of coming into force of the new Act) further

proceedings would be under the new law; subject to Section 24(2) , the

provisions of the Act of 1894 would apply to such an award. Thus, the

main part of section 24(2) deals with payment of compensation; also the

proviso which provides for higher compensation to be paid to all is in

the context of section 24(2) and cannot be lifted and added to Section

24(1)(b) in the aforesaid circumstances. What would be the majority of

the landholdings has to be seen in the context, what has been acquired

in the case of a single plot being acquired, and in case compensation 175 has not been deposited with respect to that, it will constitute the

majority. The majority does not depend upon the number of holdings

acquired, but what constitutes the majority as per the acquired area

under the notification. 189. Section 24(1)(a) operates where no award is made in a pending

acquisition proceeding; in such event all provisions of the new Act

relating to determination of compensation would apply. Section 24 (1) (b) logically continues with the second situation, i.e. where the award

has been passed, and states that in such event, proceedings would

continue under the Act of 1894. Section 24 (2) – by way of an exception,

states that where an award is made but requisite steps have not been

taken for five years or more to take possession nor compensation has

been paid then there is lapse of acquisition. If one of the steps has been

taken, then the proviso can operate. Time is the essence. It is on the

basis of time-lag that the lapse is provided and in default of payment

for five years as provided on failure to deposit higher compensation is

to be paid. It is based on that time-lag higher compensation has to

follow. It is not the mere use of colon under section 24(2) but the

placement of the proviso next to Section 24 (2) and not below Section

24(1)(b) . Thus, it is not permissible to alter a placement of proviso more

so when it is fully in consonance with the provisions of section 24(2) . Section 24(2) completely obliterates the old regime to the effect of its

field of operation. Under section 24(1)(a) , there is a partial lapse of the 176 old regime because all proceedings, till the stage of award are preserved.

The award, in such proceedings, made after coming into force of the Act

of 2013 has to take into account its provisions, for determination of

compensation. Thus, proceedings upto the stage of the award are

deemed final under the old Act. In the case under section 24(1)(b) , the

old regime prevails. The proviso is an exception to section 24(2) and in

part the new regime for payment of higher compensation in case of

default for 5 years or more after award. In re: Proviso to be read as part of provision it is appended 190. A proviso has to be construed as a part of the clause to which it

is appended. A proviso is added to a principal provision to which it is

attached. It does not enlarge the enactment. In case the provision is

repugnant to the enacting part, the proviso cannot prevail. Though in

absolute terms of a later Act. Its placement has been considered, and

purpose has been considered in the following decisions. It was observed

in State of Rajasthan v. Leela Jain & Ors that131: 191. In S. Sundaram Pillai & Ors. v. V.R. Pattabiraman & Ors 134 , the

scope of a proviso was clarified. The relevant discussion is quoted as

under: (b) A proviso must be construed with reference to the preceding
parts of the clause to which it is appended. (c) Where the proviso is directly repugnant to a section, the proviso
shall stand and be held a repeal of the section as the proviso
speaks the latter intention of the makers. (d) Where the section is doubtful, a proviso may be used as a
guide to its interpretation: but when it is clear, a proviso cannot
imply the existence of words of which there is no trace in the
section. (e) The proviso is subordinate to the main section. (f) A proviso does not enlarge an enactment except for compelling
reasons. (g) Sometimes an unnecessary proviso is inserted by way of
abundant caution. (h) A construction placed upon a proviso which brings it into
general harmony with the terms of section should prevail. (i) When a proviso is repugnant to the enacting part, the proviso
will not prevail over the absolute terms of a later Act directed to
be read as supplemental to the earlier one. (j) A proviso may sometimes contain a substantive provision. *** 35. A very apt description and extent of a proviso was given by
Lord Loreburn in Rhondda Urban District Council v. Taff Vale
Railway Co., 1909 AC 253, where it was pointed out that
insertion of a proviso by the draftsman is not always strictly
adhered to its legitimate use and at times a section worded as a
proviso may wholly or partly be in substance a fresh enactment
adding to and not merely excepting something out of or qualifying
what goes before. To the same effect is a later decision of the
same Court in Jennings v. Kelly, 1940 AC 206, where it was
observed thus: 36. While interpreting a proviso care must be taken that it is used
to remove special cases from the general enactment and provide
for them separately. 37. In short, generally speaking, a proviso is intended to limit the
enacted provision so as to except something which would have
otherwise been within it or in some measure to modify the
enacting clause. Sometimes a proviso may be embedded in the
main provision and becomes an integral part of it so as to amount
to a substantive provision itself. *** 43. We need not multiply authorities after authorities on this
 point because the legal position seems to be clearly and
 manifestly well established. To sum up, a proviso may serve four
 different purposes: designated in the Act and are to continue under the Act and any
 or all the provisions of the Act are to apply to them. The learned
 Solicitor-General contends that the savings clause enacted by the
 proviso, even if treated as substantive law, must be taken to
 apply only to suits and proceedings pending at the time of the
 repeal which, but for the proviso, would be governed by the Act
 repealed. According to the learned Attorney-General, the effect of
 the savings is much wider, and it applies to such cases as come
 within the words of the proviso, whenever the Act is extended to
 new areas.”
 (emphasis supplied) 194. In Motiram Ghelabhai v. Jagan Nagar & Ors138 , the view taken in Bhojraj (supra) was affirmed and applied. It was observed that provisos

are often added not as exceptions or qualifications to the main

enactment but as savings clauses, in which case they will not be

construed as controlled by the section. In Madhu Gopal v. VI Additional

District Judge & Ors.139 this Court has laid down that in any event, it is

a well-settled principle of construction that unless clearly indicated, a

proviso would not take away substantive rights given by the section or

the sub-section. In The King v. Dominion Engineering Co. Ltd.140, it was

held that where a section of an enactment contains two provisions and the

second proviso is repugnant in any way to the first, the second proviso

must prevail for it stands last in the enactment and speaks the last

intention of the makers. The following observations were made: In their Lordships’ view this proviso presents an insuperable
 obstacle to the Crown’s claim. There has been no physical
 delivery of the goods by the Dominion Company to the Pulp
 Company. The proviso enacts that “in any case” where there has
 been no physical delivery the tax is to be payable when the
 property passes. The property in the goods in question has never
 passed to the Pulp Company. Consequently the tax has nevern
 become payable. If proviso 2 is repugnant in any way to proviso
 1 it must prevail for it stands last in the enactment and so to quote
 Lord Tenterden C.J., “speaks the last intention of the maker”
 ((1831), 2 B. & Ad. 818 at p.821). The word is with the
 respondent, the Dominion Company, and must prevail.” 195. The proviso thus, is not foreign to compensation to be paid under section 24(2) . It provides what is dealt with in Section 24(2) and takes

to its logical conclusion, and provides for higher compensation, where

there is and can be no lapsing of acquisition proceedings. The rule of

construction- as is clear from the preceding case law discussed, is that

the proviso should be limited in its operation to the subject-matter in a

clause. A proviso is ordinarily a proviso and has to be harmoniously

construed with the provisions. In our opinion, the proviso is capable of

being harmoniously construed with Section 24(2) and not with section

24(1)(b) , once we interpret the word 'or' as 'nor' in section 24(2) . 196. In keeping with the ratio in the aforesaid decisions, this court is

of the considered view that the proviso cannot nullify the provision of Section 24(1)(b) nor can it set at naught the real object of the enactment,

but it can further by providing higher compensation, thus dealing with

matters in Section 24 (2) . Therefore, in effect, where award is not made

[ Section 24 (1)(a) ] as well as where award is made but compensation is

not deposited in respect of majority of the landowners in a notification 183 (for acquisition) [i.e. proviso to Section 24 (2) ] compensation is payable

in terms of the new Act, i.e., Act of 2013. 197. For the aforesaid reasons, considering the placement of the

proviso, semi-colon having been used at the end of section 24(2) ,

considering the interpretation of section 24(1)(b) and the repugnancy

which would be caused in case the proviso is lifted which is not

permissible and particularly when we read the word ‘or’ as ‘nor’ in section 24(2) , it has to be placed where the legislature has legislated it,

it has not been wrongly placed as part of section 24(2) but is intended

for beneficial results of higher compensation for one and all where there

is no lapse, but amount not deposited as required. Higher compensation

is contemplated by the Act of 2013, which intention is fully carried

forward by the placement and interpretation. In re: What is the meaning to be given to the word “paid” used in section 24(2) and “deposited” used in the proviso to section 24(2) 198. Connected with this issue are questions like what is the

consequence of payment not being made under section 31(1) and what

are the consequences of amount not deposited under section 31(2) . The

provision of section 24(2) when it provides that compensation has not

been paid where award has been made 5 years or more prior to the

commencement of the Act of 2013. In contradistinction to that, the

proviso uses the expression "an award has been made and

compensation in respect of a majority of land holdings has not been 184 deposited in the account of the beneficiaries". We have to find out when

an amount is required to be deposited under the Act of 1894 and how

the payment is made under the Act of 1894. The provisions of Section

31 of the Act of 1894 are attracted to the interpretation of provisions of section 24(2) to find out the meaning of the words 'paid' and 'deposited'. Section 31(1) makes it clear that on passing of award compensation has

to be tendered to the beneficiaries and Collector shall pay it to them.

The payment is provided only in section 31(1) . The expression ‘tender’

and pay to them in section 31(1) cannot include the term 'deposited.' 199. Section 31 (2) of the Act of 1894 deals with deposit in case

Collector is ‘prevented’ from making payment by one or more

contingencies mentioned in section 31(2) . The deposit follows if the

Collector is prevented from making payment. In case Collector is

prevented from making payment due to contingencies such refusal to

receive the amount, or if there be no person competent to alienate the

land, or if there is a dispute as to the title to receive the compensation

or as to the apportionment of it, he (i.e. the Collector) may withhold it

or in case there is dispute as to apportionment, he may ask the parties

to get a decision from the Reference Court i.e., civil court and to clear

the title. In such exigencies, the amount of compensation is required to

be deposited in the court to which reference would be submitted under section 18 . Section 31(2) requires deposit in case of reference under 185 section 18 and not the reference, which may be sought under section

30 or section 28A of the Act of 1894. 200. Section 24(2) deals with the expression where compensation has

not been paid. It would mean that it has not been tendered for payment

under section 31(1) . Though the word 'paid' amounts to a completed

event however once payment of compensation has been

offered/tendered under section 31(1) , the acquiring authority cannot be

penalized for non-payment as the amount has remained unpaid due to

refusal to accept, by the landowner and Collector is prevented from

making the payment. Thus, the word 'paid' used in section 24(2) cannot

be said to include within its ken 'deposit' under section 31(2) . For that

special provision has been carved out in the proviso to section 24(2) ,

which deals with the amount to be deposited in the account of

beneficiaries. Two different expressions have been used in section 24 .

In the main part of section 24 , the word 'paid' and in its proviso

'deposited' have been used. 201. The consequence of non-deposit of the amount has been dealt

with in section 34 of the Act of 1894. As per section 24(2) , if the amount

has not been paid nor possession has been taken, it provides for lapse.

Whereas the proviso indicates amount has not been deposited with

respect to a majority of land holdings in a case initiated under the Act

of 1894 for 5 years or more. The period of five years need not have been 186 specified in the proviso as it is part of section 24(2) and has to be read

with it, particularly in view of the colon and placement by the legislature

as held above. Two different consequences of non-deposit of

compensation are: (i) higher compensation in a case where possession

has been taken, payment has been made to some and amount has not

been deposited with respect to majority of the holdings, (ii) in case there

is no lapse, the beneficiaries would be entitled to interest as envisaged

under section 34 from the date of taking possession at the rate of 9%

per annum for the first year and after that @ 15% per annum. 202. The word “paid” has been defined in the Oxford Dictionary to mean

thus: 203. The word “paid” in Section 31(1) to the landowner cannot include

in its ambit the expression "deposited" in court. Deposit cannot be said

to be payment made to landowners. Deposit is on being prevented from

payment. However, in case there is a tender of the amount that is to

mean amount is made available to the landowner that would be a

discharge of the obligation to make the payment and in that event such 187 a person cannot be penalised for the default in making the payment. In

default to deposit in court, the liability is to make the payment of

interest under Section 34 of Act of 1894. Sections 32 and 33 (which

had been relied upon by the landowners’ counsel to say that valuable

rights inhere, in the event of deposit with court, thus making deposit

under Section 31 mandatory) provide for investing amounts in the

Government securities, or seeking alternative lands, in lieu of

compensation, etc. Such deposits, cannot fetch higher interest than

the15 per cent contemplated under Section 34 , which is pari materia to Section 80 of Act of 2013. Section 34 is pari materia to section 80 of

Act of 2013 in which also the similar rate of interest has been specified.

Even if the amount is not deposited in Reference Court nor with the

treasury as against the name of the person interested who is entitled to

receive it, if Collector has been prevented to make the payment due to

exigencies provided in Section 31(2) , interest to be paid. However, in

case the deposit is made without tendering it to the person interested,

the liability to pay the interest under section 34 , shall continue. Even

assuming deposit in the Reference Court is taken to be mandatory, in

that case too interest has to follow as specified in section 34 . However,

acquisition proceeding cannot lapse due to non-deposit. 204. The concept of "deposit" is different and quite apart from the word

“paid”, due to which, lapse is provided in Section 24 of Act of 2013. In

the case of non-deposit for the majority of landholdings, higher 188 compensation would follow as such word “paid” cannot include in its

ambit word “deposited”. To hold otherwise would be contrary to

provisions contained in Section 24(2) and its proviso carrying different

consequences. It is provided in Section 34 of Act of 1894, in case

payment has not been tendered or paid, nor deposited the interest has

to be paid as specified therein. In Section 24(2) also lapse is provided

in case amount has not been paid and possession has not been taken. 205. In our considered opinion, there is a breach of obligation to

deposit even if it is taken that amount to be deposited in the reference

court in exigencies being prevented from payment as provided in Section

31(2) . The default will not have the effect of reopening the concluded

proceedings. The legal position and consequence which prevailed from

1893 till 2013 on failure to deposit was only the liability for interest and

all those transactions were never sought to be invalidated by the

provisions contained in Section 24 . It is only in the case where in a

pending proceeding for a period of five years or more, the steps have not

been taken for taking possession and for payment of compensation,

then there is a lapse under section 24(2) . In case amount has not been

deposited with respect to majority of land holdings, higher

compensation has to follow. Both lapse and higher compensation are

qualified with the condition of period of 5 years or more. 206. It was submitted that mere tender of amount is not payment. The

amount has to be actually paid. In our opinion, when amount has been 189 tendered, the obligation has been fulfilled by the Collector. Landowners

cannot be forced to receive it. In case a person has not accepted the

amount wants to take the advantage of non-payment, though the

amount has remained due to his own act. It is not open to him to

contend that amount has not been paid to him, as such, there should

be lapse of the proceedings. Even in a case when offer for payment has

been made but not deposited, liability to pay amount along with interest

subsist and if not deposited for majority of holding, for that adequate

provisions have been given in the proviso also to Section 24(2) . The

scheme of the Act of 2013 in Sections 77 and 80 is also the same as

that provided in Sections 31 and 34 of the Act of 1894. 207. It was urged that landowners can seek investment in an interest

bearing account, there is no doubt about that investment can be sought

from the court under Sections 32 and 33 of Act of 1894, but interest in

Government securities is not more than what is provided in section 34 at the rate of 9 percent from the date of taking possession for one year

and thereafter, at the rate of 15 percent. We take judicial notice of the

fact in no other Government security rate of interest is higher on the

amount being invested under sections 32 and 33 of the Act of 1894.

Higher rate of interest is available under section 34 to the advantage of

landowners. It was submitted that in case the amount is deposited in

the court, it is on behalf of the beneficiary. The submission overlooks

the form in which it used to be deposited in the treasury too, that 190 amount is also credited in the treasury payable to the beneficiary

specified in his name with land details, date of award, etc. 208. There is another reason why this court holds that such an

interpretation is reasonable and in tune with Parliamentary intent.

Under the old regime, it was open to the Collector to fix a convenient

date or dates for announcement of award, and tender payment. In the

event of refusal by the landowner to receive, or in other cases, such as

absence of the true owner, or in case of dispute as to who was to receive

it, no doubt, the statute provided that the amount was to be deposited

with the court: as it does today, under Section 77. Yet, neither during

the time when the Act of 1894 was in operation, nor under the Act of

2013, the entire acquisition does not lapse for non-deposit of the

compensation amount in court. This is a significant aspect which none

of the previous decisions have noticed. Thus, it would be incorrect to

imply that failure to deposit compensation [in court, under Section 31

(2) ] would entail lapse, if the amounts have not been paid for five years

or more prior to the coming into force of the Act of 2013. Such an

interpretation would lead to retrospective operation, of a provision, and

the nullification of acquisition proceedings, long completed, by

imposition of a norm or standard, and its application for a time when it

did not exist. 209. If the expression “deposited” is held to be included in the

expression “paid” used in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013, inconsistency 191 and repugnancy would be caused as between the proviso and the main

sub-section, which has to be avoided and the non-compliance of the

provisions of Section 31(2) is not fatal. Even if the amount has not been

deposited, higher compensation has to follow in the exigency proviso to Section 24(2) . 210. In Black’s Law Dictionary, the word "tender" has been defined to

mean thus: 211. It is apparent that “tender” of the amount saves the party

tendering it from the consequence to be visited on non-payment of the

amount. The obligation to make the payment has been considered in

various other laws and decisions. When obligation to payment is

fulfilled as to the scheme in the context of a particular act, for that

purpose, decisions under various other laws are relevant and cannot be

said to be irrelevant. 212. In The Straw Board Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Saharanpur v.

Gobind141 , this Court considered the provisions requiring payment of

one month’s wage under Section 33 of Industrial Disputes Act for 141 1962 (Supp 3) SCR 318 192 making a valid discharge or dismissal. This Court has held that the

employer has tendered the wages and that would amount for payment,

otherwise a workman can make the provision unworkable by refusing

to take the wages. This Court has observed thus: 213. In The Management of Delhi Transport Undertaking v. The

Industrial Tribunal, Delhi & Anr 142, a three-Judge Bench of this Court

has laid down the law to the similar effect. It is not actual payment, but

tender of amount which is necessary to fulfil obligation to pay. This

Court observed thus: 214. In Indian Oxygen Ltd. v. Narayan Bhoumik143, it was held that the

“the condition as to payment in the proviso does not mean that wages

have to be actually paid but if wages are tendered or offered, such a

tender or offer would be sufficient compliance” with the statute. The

Benares State Bank Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Income Tax, Lucknow144 ,

was decided in the context of Section 14(2)(c) of the Income Tax Act,

1922. It was observed that "paid" under Section 16 does not

contemplate actual receipt of the dividend by the Member of the

community. It is to be made unconditionally available to the members

entitled to it. It observed thus: 215. Two different expressions have been used in Section 24(2) . The

expression "paid" has been used in Section 24(2) and whereas in the

proviso “deposited” has been used. “Paid” cannot include “deposit”, or

else Parliament would have used different expressions in the main sub-

143 (1968) 1 PLJR 94 144 (1969) 2 SCC 316 194 section and its proviso, if the meaning were to be the same. The Court

cannot add or subtract any word in the statute and has to give plain

and literal meaning and when compensation has not been paid under Section 24(2) , it cannot mean compensation has not been deposited as

used in the proviso. While interpreting the statutory provisions,

addition or subtraction in the legislation is not permissible. It is not

open to the court to either add or subtract a word. There cannot be any

departure from the words of law, as observed in legal maxim “A Verbis

Legis Non Est Recedendum”. In Principles of Statutory Interpretation

(14th Edition) by Justice G.P. Singh, plethora of decisions have been

referred. There is a conscious omission of the word "deposit" in Section

24(2) , which has been used in the proviso. Parliament cannot be said

to have used the different words carrying the same meaning in the same

provision, whereas words "paid" and "deposited" carry a totally different

meaning. Payment is actually made to the landowner and deposit is

made in the court, that is not the payment made to the landowner. It

may be discharge of liability of payment of interest and not more than

that. Applying the rule of literal construction also natural, ordinary and

popular meaning of the words “paid” and “deposited” do not carry the

same meaning; the natural and grammatical meaning has to be given

to them, as observed in Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice

G.P. Singh (at page 91) thus: Similarly, while construing the word 'gain' Under Section 3(ff) of
 the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, which used the
 words 'profit or gain', the Supreme Court relied on the dictionary
 meanings of the words to hold that the word 'gain' is not
 synonymous with the word 'profit' as it is not restricted to
 pecuniary or commercial profits, and that any advantage or
 benefit acquired or value addition made by some activities would
 amount to 'gain'......." ***14. Brighton Parish Guardians v. Strand Union
 Guardians, (1891) 2 QB 156, p. 167 (CA); Member, Board
 of Revenue v. Arthur Paul Benthall AIR 1956 SC 35, p. 38 : 1955
 (2) SCR 842; CIT v. East West Import & Export (P .) Ltd.,
 Jaipur AIR 1989 SC 836, p. 838 : (1989) 1 SCC 760; B.R.
 Enterprises v. State of U.P. AIR 1999 SC 1867, p. 1902: (1999) 9
 SCC 700 ('trade and business' in Article 298 have different
 meaning from 'trade and commerce' in Article 301 ); ShriIshal
 Alloy Steels Ltd. v. JayaswalasNeco Ltd., JT 2001 (3) SC 114, p.
 119: (2001) 3 SCC 609 : AIR 2001 SC 1161 (The words 'a bank'
 and 'the bank' in Section 138 N.I. Act, 1881 do not have the same
 meaning); The Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. V. Hansrajbhai v.
 Kodala AIR 2001 SC 1832, p. 1842 : (2001) 5 SCC 175; Kailash
 Nath Agarwal v. Pradeshiya Indust and Inv. Corporation of
 U.P., 2003 AIR SCW 1358, p. 1365: (2003) 4 SCC 305, p. 313. (The words 'proceeding' and 'suit' used in the same Section
 construed differently); But in Paramjeet Singh Pathak v. ICDS
 Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 322: AIR 2007 SC 168 different view was
 taken therefore in Zenith Steel Tubes v. Sicom Ltd. , (2008) 1 SCC
 533: AIR 2008 SC 451 case referred to a larger Bench; D.L.F.
 Qutab Enclave Complex Educational Charitable Trust v. State of
 Haryana , 2003 AIR SCW 1046, p. 1057: AIR 2003 SC 1648 : 218. In V.L.S. Finance Ltd. (supra) this Court observed that: (emphasis supplied) 219. In Bharat Aluminium Company v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical

Services Inc.147 , this Court observed thus: (emphasis supplied)

 In the same judgment, it is further observed: (WLR p. 157 F)
 “… But if this be the case it is for Parliament, not for the judiciary,
 to decide whether any changes should be made to the law as
 stated in the Acts….”
 (emphasis supplied)
 *** 67. We are unable to accept the submission of the learned
 counsel for the appellants that the omission of the word “only”
 from Section 2(2) indicates that applicability of Part I of the
 Arbitration Act, 1996 is not limited to the arbitrations that take
 place in India. We are also unable to accept that Section 2(2) would make Part I applicable even to arbitrations which take
 place outside India. In our opinion, a plain reading of Section 2(2) makes it clear that Part I is limited in its application to arbitrations
 which take place in India. We are in agreement with the
 submissions made by the learned counsel for the respondents,
 and the interveners in support of the respondents, that
 Parliament by limiting the applicability of Part I to arbitrations
 which take place in India has expressed a legislative declaration.
 It has clearly given recognition to the territorial principle.
 Necessarily therefore, it has enacted that Part I of the Arbitration
 Act, 1996 applies to arbitrations having their place/seat in India. *** 147 (2012) 9 SCC 552 199 82. Another strong reason for rejecting the submission made by
 the learned counsel for the appellants is that if Part I were to be
 applicable to arbitrations seated in foreign countries, certain
 words would have to be added to Section 2(2) . The section would
 have to provide that “this part shall apply where the place of
 arbitration is in India and to arbitrations having its place out of
 India.” Apart from being contrary to the contextual intent and
 object of Section 2(2) , such an interpretation would amount to a
 drastic and unwarranted rewriting/alteration of the language of Section 2(2) . As very strongly advocated by Mr Sorabjee, the
 provisions in the Arbitration Act, 1996 must be construed by their
 plain language/terms. It is not permissible for the court while
 construing a provision to reconstruct the provision. In other
 words, the court cannot produce a new jacket, whilst ironing out
 the creases of the old one. In view of the aforesaid, we are unable
 to support the conclusions recorded by this Court as noticed
 earlier.”
 (emphasis supplied) 220. In Harbhajan Singh (supra) the following observations were made: 221. In The Member, Board of Revenue v. Arthur Paul Benthall 148 this

Court held as under: 222. In Commissioner of Income Tax, New Delhi v. M/s. East West

Import and Export (P) Ltd149, it was observed as under: 223. The land owners had argued that the obligation to pay gets

discharged only when compensation is actually paid and/or deposited.

Even if it is received under protest under Section 31(1) , it is finally

accepted by the landowners post-settlement by the Reference Court. We 149 (1989) 1 SCC 760
150B.R. Enterprises v. State of U.P. and Ors., (1999) 9 SCC 700; Kailash Nath Agarwal and
Ors. v. Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Ltd. and Anr. , (2003) 4 SCC
305 (which interpreted “proceeding” and “suit” differently; In DLF Qutab Enclave Complex
Educational Charitable Trust v. State of Haryana and Ors. , (2003) 5 SCC 622 (where “at his
cost” and “at its cost” were interpreted to mean different situations. 201 are not able to accept the submission as Section 34 of the Act of 1894,

is clear even if the amount is not paid or deposited, it carries interest.

The logic behind this is that if the State is retaining the amount with

peace and its liability to pay does not cease, but it would be liable to

make the payment with interest as envisaged therein. Once tender is

made, obligation to pay is fulfilled so that the amount cannot be said to

have been paid, but obligation to pay has been discharged and if a

person who has not accepted it, cannot penalise the other party for

default to pay and non-deposit carries only interest as money had been

retained with the Government. 224. Thus, in our opinion, the word "paid" used in Section 24(2) does

not include within its meaning the word “deposited”, which has been

used in the proviso to Section 24(2) . Section 31 of the Act of 1894, deals

with the deposit as envisaged in Section 31(2) on being ‘prevented’ from

making the payment even if the amount has been deposited in the

treasury under the Rules framed under Section 55 or under the

Standing Orders, that would carry the interest as envisaged under Section 34 , but acquisition would not lapse on such deposit being made

in the treasury. In case amount has been tendered and the landowner

has refused to receive it, it cannot be said that the liability arising from

non-payment of the amount is that of lapse of acquisition. Interest

would follow in such a case also due to non-deposit of the amount.

Equally, when the landowner does not accept the amount, but seeks a 202 reference for higher compensation, there can be no question of such

individual stating that he was not paid the amount (he was determined

to be entitled to by the collector). In such case, the landowner would be

entitled to the compensation determined by the Reference court.

In re: Rules framed under Section 55 and the Standing Orders
issued by State Governments 225. It was urged on behalf of acquiring Authorities that various State

Governments have framed rules under Section 55 of the Act of 1894

and/or have issued the Standing Orders/instructions with respect to

the Government money under Article 283 of the Constitution of India.

These Standing Orders and Rules have remained in force from time

immemorial; their provisions require the amount to be tendered, notice

to be issued to the landowners to collect the amount of compensation

awarded to them. If they do not appear and apply to the reference under Section 18 , the officer shall cause the amounts due to be paid into the

treasury as revenue deposits payable to the persons to whom they are

respectively due and vouched for in the accompanying form (marked E).

When the payee ultimately claims the payment, they shall be paid in

the same manner as ordinary revenue deposits. The Land Acquisition

(Bihar and Orissa) Rules were framed under Section 55 of the Act of

1894. Rule 10 thereof is extracted hereunder: 226. In the State of Assam, rules have also been framed under Section

55 of the Act of 1894, dealing with the deposit. Rule 9 provides that in

case reference is not sought under Section 18 , the amount has to be

deposited in treasury. Rule 9 is extracted hereunder: Similar rules were framed in the State of Bihar and Orissa. 228. Standing Order No.28 was issued in 1909 by the State of Punjab

and was applicable to Delhi also, which provided five modes of payment

in para 74 and 75 thus: The officer shall also give notice to the payees of such deposits, 205 specifying the treasury in which the deposit has been made.
 When the payees ultimately claim payment of sums placed in
 deposit, the amounts will be paid to them in the same manner as
 ordinary revenue deposit. The officer should, as far as possible,
 arrange to make the payments due in or near the village to which
 the payee belong in order that the number of undisbursed sums
 to be placed in deposits on account of non-attendance may be
 reduced to a minimum. Whenever payment is claimed through a
 representative whether before or after deposit of the amount
 awarded, such representative, must have legal authority for
 receiving the compensation on behalf of his principal.”

 Sub-para (V) of the above made it clear that payment is credited

to the treasury when a person who is served with a notice under Section

12(2) of the Act of 1894, is not present and the award is passed. When

a notice is given to receive the payment of compensation and in case

they fail to appear, the amount has to be paid to the treasury as revenue

deposit payable to the landowner. 229. Rules and the Standing Orders are binding on the concerned

Authorities and they have to follow them. They deposit the amounts in

court only when a reference (for higher compensation) is sought, not 206 otherwise. Even if a person refuses to accept it and the amount is

deposited in court or even it is not tendered, only higher interest follows

under Section 34 . Once Rules have prevailed since long and even if it

is assumed that deposit in court is mandatory on being prevented from

payment as envisaged under Section 31(1) , the only liability to make the

payment of higher interest is fastened upon the State. The liability to

pay the amount with interest would subsist. When amounts are

deposited in court, there would occur a procedural irregularity and the

adverse consequence envisaged is under Section 34 of the Act of 1894.

The consequence of non-deposit in the court is that the amount of the

landowner cannot be invested in the Government securities as

envisaged under Sections 32 and 33 of the Act of 1894, in which interest

is not more 15 per cent. Thus, no prejudice is caused to the landowners

rather they stand to gain and still payment is safe as it is kept in the

court. We have already held that there is a distinction between the

expression “paid” and “deposited”, thus the amount being deposited as

per Rules in the treasury or as per the Standing Orders considering the

scheme of Section 31 read with Section 34 of the Act of 1894, which are

pari materia to Sections 77 and 80 of the Act of 2013. We are of the

considered opinion that acquisition cannot be invalidated, only higher

compensation would follow in case amount has not been deposited with

respect to majority of land holdings, all the beneficiaries would be

entitled for higher compensation as envisaged in the proviso to Section

24(2) . 230. Deposit in treasury in place of deposit in court causes no prejudice

to the landowner or any other stakeholder as their interest is adequately

safeguarded by the provisions contained in Section 34 of the Act of

1894, as it ensures higher rate of interest than any other Government

securities. Their money is safe and credited in the earmarked quantified

amount and can be made available for disbursement to him/them.

There is no prejudice caused and every infraction of law would not

vitiate the act. 231. In Jankinath Sarangi v. State of Orissa151 , this Court observed that

every infraction of law would not vitiate the act. It has further been

observed that test is actual prejudice has been caused to a person by

the supposed denial to him of a particular right. Following observations

have been made: 151 (1969) 3 SCC 392 208 Between March and May there could not be much rainfall, if at
 all, and the marks of digging according to the witnesses could not
 be obliterated during that time. It is however said that at the 6th
 and 7th mile the checking was done in July and by that time rains
 might have set in. Even so the witnesses at the sites of the pits
 could not be so considerably altered as to present a totally wrong
 picture. If anything had happened the earth would have swollen
 rather than contracted by reason of rain and the pits would have
 become bigger and not smaller. Anyway the questions which
 were put to the witnesses were recorded and sent to the Chief
 Engineer and his replies were received. No doubt the replies were
 not put in the hands of the appellant but he saw them at the time
 when he was making the representations and curiously enough
 he used those replies in his defence. In other words, they were
 not collected behind his back and could be used to his advantage
 and he had an opportunity of so using them in his defence. We
 do not think that any prejudice was caused to the appellant in
 this case by not examining the two retired Superintending
 Engineers whom he had cited or any one of them. The case was
 a simple one whether the measurement book had been properly
 checked. The pleas about rain and floods were utterly useless
 and the Chief Engineer’s elucidated replies were not against the
 appellant. In these circumstances a fetish of the principles of
 natural justice is not necessary to be made. We do not think that
 a case is made out that the principles of natural justice are
 violated. The appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed, but
 we will make no order as to costs.”
 (emphasis supplied) 232. In Sunil Kumar Banerjee v. State of West Bengal and Ors.,152 the

Court observed: State of Travancore-Cochin, AIR 1956 SC 24; Bibhuti Bhusan Das
 Gupta v. State of W.B. , AIR 1969 SC 381 We are similarly of the
 view that failure to comply with the requirements of Rule 8(19) of
 the 1969 Rules does not vitiate the enquiry unless the delinquent
 officer is able to establish prejudice. In this case the learned
 Single Judge the High Court as well as the learned Judges of the
 Division Bench found that the appellant was in no way
 prejudiced by the failure to observe the requirement of Rule 8(19).
 The appellant cross-examined the witnesses himself, submitted
 his defence in writing in great detail and argued the case himself
 at all stages. The appellant was fully alive to the allegations
 against him and dealt with all aspects of the allegations in his
 written defence. We do not think that he was in the least
 prejudiced by the failure of the Enquiry Officer to question him in
 accordance with Rule 8(19). (emphasis supplied)”

 A similar view has been taken in the State of Andhra Pradesh v.

Thakkidiram Reddy153 and other decisions. 233. There is a dual obligation, namely, part mandatory and part

directory. In Howard v. Secretary of State for the Environment, (1975)

Q.B. 235, Lord Denning has cited a portion from the speech of Lord

Penzance, which is extracted hereunder: That must mean all or none. I cannot see any justification for the
 view that it is imperative as to one ground and not imperative as
 to the rest. If one was all that was necessary, an appellant would
 only have to put in one frivolous or hopeless ground and then
 amend later to add his real grounds. That would be a futile
 exercise. Then as to ‘stating the facts.’ It cannot be supposed
 that the appellant must at all cost state all the facts on which he
 bases his appeal. He has to state the facts, not the evidence: and
 the facts may depend on evidence yet to be obtained, and may
 not be fully or sufficiently known at the time when the notice of
 appeal is given. All things, considered, it seems to me that the
 section, in so far as the ‘grounds’ and ‘facts’ are concerned, must
 be construed as directory only: that is, as desiring information to
 be given about them. It is not to be supposed that an appeal
 should fail altogether simply because the grounds are not
 indicated, or the facts stated. Even if it is wanting in not giving
 them, it is not fatal. The defects can be remedied later, either
 before or at the hearing of the appeal, so long as an opportunity
 is afforded of dealing with them.”
 (emphasis supplied) 234. In Belvedere Court Management Ltd. v. Frogmore Developments

Ltd.154, a distinction was made between essential and supportive

provisions. The following observations are pertinent: 235. In Sharif-ud-Din (supra) the difference between mandatory and

directory rules was pointed out thus: 236. Similarly, in Ram Deen Maurya (Dr.) v. State of Uttar Pradesh and

Ors155 this Court observed that non-compliance with the directory

provision does not affect the validity of the act done in breach thereof. 155 (2009) 6 SCC 735 212 In Rai Vimal Krishna and Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors. 156, this Court

considered the mode of publication and held that publication in a

newspaper was the only effective mode and that the provision was

mandatory. 237. This Court also considered the effect of non-deposit of the amount

in Hissar Improvement v. Smt. Rukmani Devi and Anr157 and held that

in case compensation has not been paid or deposited, the State is liable

to pay interest as provided in Section 34 . The Court held thus: 238. In Kishan Das v. State of U.P158 , this Court observed that where

land owners themselves delayed the acquisition proceedings, it is

discretionary for the court to award the interest and they cannot get the

premium on their dilatory tactics. This Court stated that: 239. In D-Block Ashok Nagar (Sahibabad) Plot Holders’ Assn. v. State of

U.P.159 , it was observed that liability to pay interest under Section 34 arises from the date of taking possession. 240. It was argued that in fact in many cases, reference was sought as

such the amounts being deposited in the treasury were not valid.

Reference was sought for higher compensation and landowners had

declined to accept the compensation for no good reason they could have

received it under protest reserving their right to seek the reference and

in case compensation was not paid or deposited, they could have

claimed it along with interest as envisaged under Section 34 . 241. It is clear that once land is acquired, award passed and possession

has been taken, it has vested in the State. It had been allotted to

beneficiaries. A considerable infrastructure could have been developed

and a third-party interest had also intervened. The land would have

been given by the acquiring authorities to the beneficiaries from whose

schemes the land had been acquired and they have developed immense 159 (1997) 10 SCC 77 214 infrastructure. We are unable to accept the submission that merely by

deposit of amount in treasury instead of court, we should invalidate all

the acquisitions, which have taken place. That is not what is

contemplated under Section 24(2) . We are also not able to accept the

submission that when law operates these harsh consequences need not

be seen by the court. In our opinion, that submission is without merit

in as such consequences are not even envisaged on proper

interpretation of Section 24(2) , as mentioned above. 242. The proviso to Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013, intends that the

Collector would have sufficient funds to deposit it with respect to the

majority of landholdings. In case compensation has not been paid or

deposited with respect to majority of land holdings, all the beneficiaries

are entitled for higher compensation. In case money has not been

deposited with the Land Acquisition Collector or in the treasury or in

court with respect to majority of landholdings, the consequence has to

follow of higher compensation as per proviso to Section 24(2) of the Act

of 2013. Even otherwise, if deposit in treasury is irregular, then the

interest would follow as envisaged under Section 34 of Act of 1894. Section 24(2) is attracted if acquisition proceeding is not completed

within 5 years after the pronouncement of award. Parliament

considered the period of 5 years as reasonable time to complete the

acquisition proceedings i.e., taking physical possession of the land and

payment of compensation. It is the clear intent of the Act of 2013, that 215 provision of Section 24(2) shall apply to the proceeding which is pending

as on the date on which the Act of 2013, has been brought into force

and it does not apply to the concluded proceedings. It was urged before

us by one of the Counsel that lands in the Raisina Hills and Lutyens’

Zones of Delhi were acquired in 1913 and compensation has not been

paid. The Act of 2013 applies only to the pending proceedings in which

possession has not been taken or compensation has not paid and not

to a case where proceedings have been concluded long back, Section

24(2) is not a tool to revive those proceedings and to question the validity

of taking acquisition proceedings due to which possession in 1960s,

1970s, 1980s were taken, or to question the manner of deposit of

amount in the treasury. The Act of 2013 never intended revival such

claims. In case such landowners were interested in questioning the

proceedings of taking possession or mode of deposit with the treasury,

such a challenge was permissible within the time available with them

to do so. They cannot wake from deep slumber and raise such claims

in order to defeat the acquisition validly made. In our opinion, the law

never contemplates -nor permits- misuse much less gross abuse of its

provisions to reopen all the acquisitions made after 1984, and it is the

duty of the court to examine the details of such claims. There are

several litigations before us where landowners, having lost the challenge

to the validity of acquisition proceedings and after having sought

enhancement of the amount in the reference succeeding in it 216 nevertheless are seeking relief arguing about lapse of acquisition after

several rounds of litigation. 243. The expression used in Section 24(1)(b) is ‘where an award under Section 11 has been made”, then ‘such proceedings shall continue’ under

the provisions of the said Act of 1894 as if the said Act has not been

repealed’. The expression “proceedings shall continue” indicates that

proceedings are pending at the time; it is a present perfect tense and

envisages that proceedings must be pending as on the date on which

the Act of 2013 came into force. It does not apply to concluded

proceedings before the Collector after which it becomes functus officio. Section 24 of the Act of 2013, does not confer benefit in the concluded

proceedings, of which legality if question has to be seen in the

appropriate proceedings. It is only in the pending proceedings where

award has been passed and possession has not been taken nor

compensation has been paid, it is applicable. There is no lapse in case

possession has been taken, but amount has not been deposited with

respect to majority of land holdings in a pending proceeding, higher

compensation under the Act of 2013 would follow under the proviso to Section 24(2) . Thus, the provision is not applicable to any other case in

which higher compensation has been sought by way of seeking a

reference under the Act of 1894 or where the validity of the acquisition

proceedings have been questioned, though they have been concluded. 217 Such case has to be decided on their own merits and the provisions of Section 24(2) are not applicable to such cases. In re: Issue no.4: mode of taking possession under the Act of 1894 244. Section 16 of the Act of 1894 provided that possession of land may

be taken by the State Government after passing of an award and

thereupon land vest free from all encumbrances in the State

Government. Similar are the provisions made in the case of urgency in Section 17(1) . The word “possession” has been used in the Act of 1894,

whereas in Section 24(2) of Act of 2013, the expression “physical

possession” is used. It is submitted that drawing of panchnama for

taking over the possession is not enough when the actual physical

possession remained with the landowner and Section 24(2) requires

actual physical possession to be taken, not the possession in any other

form. When the State has acquired the land and award has been

passed, land vests in the State Government free from all encumbrances.

The act of vesting of the land in the State is with possession, any person

retaining the possession, thereafter, has to be treated as trespasser and

has no right to possess the land which vests in the State free from all

encumbrances. 245. The question which arises whether there is any difference between

taking possession under the Act of 1894 and the expression “physical

possession” used in Section 24(2) . As a matter of fact, what was

contemplated under the Act of 1894, by taking the possession meant 218 only physical possession of the land. Taking over the possession under

the Act of 2013 always amounted to taking over physical possession of

the land. When the State Government acquires land and drawns up a

memorandum of taking possession, that amounts to taking the physical

possession of the land. On the large chunk of property or otherwise

which is acquired, the Government is not supposed to put some other

person or the police force in possession to retain it and start cultivating

it till the land is used by it for the purpose for which it has been

acquired. The Government is not supposed to start residing or to

physically occupy it once possession has been taken by drawing the

inquest proceedings for obtaining possession thereof. Thereafter, if any

further retaining of land or any re-entry is made on the land or someone

starts cultivation on the open land or starts residing in the outhouse,

etc., is deemed to be the trespasser on land which in possession of the

State. The possession of trespasser always inures for the benefit of the

real owner that is the State Government in the case. 246. It was urged on behalf of acquiring authorities and the states that

there is no conflict of opinion with respect to the mode of taking

possession in IDA v Shailendra and Pune Municipal Corporation & Anr

(supra), and that the latter is not a decision as to the aspect of

possession. A two-Judge Bench decision in Shree Balaji Nagar

Residential Association (supra ) has been overruled in the Indore

Development Authority case (supra). The view taken in Indore 219 Development Authority (supra) has to prevail as the decision in Velaxan

Kumar (supra), was rendered by a two judge Bench of this court. This

court, however, proceeds to examine the matter afresh as issues have

been framed. 247. The concept of possession is complex one. It comprises the right

to possess and to exclude others, essential is animus possidendi.

Possession depends upon the character of the thing which is possessed.

If the land is not capable of any use, mere non-user of it does not lead

to the inference that the owner is not in possession. The established

principle is that the possession follows title. Possession comprises of the

control over the property. The element of possession is the physical

control or the power over the object and intention or will to exercise the

power. Corpus and animus are both necessary and have to co-exist.

Possession of the acquired land is taken under the Act of 1894 under Section 16 or 17 as the case may be. The government has a right to

acquire the property for public purpose. The stage under Section 16 comes for taking possession after issuance of notification under Section

4(1) and stage of Section 9(1) . Under section 16 , vesting is after passing

of the award on taking possession and under section 17 before passing

of the award. 248. Mitra’s “Law of Possession and Ownership of Property”, 2nd Edn.,

expressions ‘trespass’ and ‘trespasser’ have been dealt with by the 220 learned Author with the help of Words and Phrases, Permanent Edition,

West Publishing Co. which has also been quoted with respect to who is

a trespasser: 249. One who enters or remains in possession on land of another

without a privilege to do so, is also treated as a trespasser. On the

strength of Full Bench decision of Patna High Court in S.M. Yaqub v.

T.N. Basu160, Mitra , has referred to the observation that the possession

should not be confused with occupation. A person may be in actual

possession of the property without occupying it for a considerable time.

The person who has a right to utilise the whole in any way he likes.

Possession in part is good enough to infer that the person is in

possession of the rest. Learned Author has referred to Jowitt’s

Dictionary of English Law, Ed. 1969, so as to explain what constitutes

possession. “There are three requisites of possession. First, there must be
 actual or potential physical control. Secondly, the physical control
 is not possession unless accompanied by intention hence if a
 thing is put into the hand of a sleeping person he has no
 possession of it. Thirdly, the possibility and intention must be
 visible or evidence by external signs for if the thing shows no
 signs of being under the control of anyone, it is not possession.” 160 AIR 1949 Pat 146 221 250. In order to constitute possession, a person should be in physical

control. The same is not possession unless and until the intention is

there and thirdly, possibility and intention must be visible; otherwise,

it is not possession. Mitra has further dealt with how to determine

possession. The relevant extract is quoted hereunder: 251. A person with title is considered to be in actual possession. The

other person is a trespasser. The possession in law follows the right to

possess as held in Kynoch Limited v. Rowlands161. Ordinarily, the owner 161 (1912) 1Ch 527 222 of the property is presumed to be in possession and presumption as to

possession is in his favour. In Superintendent and Remembrancer of

Legal Affairs, West Bengal v. Anil Kumar Bhunja & Ors. , 162, this Court

observed that possession implies a right and a fact; the right to enjoy

annexed to the right of property and the fact of the real intention. It

involves the power of control and intent to control. Possession is

annexed to right of property. “13. “Possession” is a polymorphous term which may have
 different meanings in different contexts. It is impossible to work
 out a completely logical and precise definition of “possession”
 uniformally applicable to all situations in the contexts of all
 statutes. Dias and Hughes in their book on Jurisprudence say
 that if a topic ever suffered from too much theorising it is that of
 "possession." Much of this difficulty and confusion is (as pointed
 out in Salmond’s Jurisprudence, 12th Edn., 1966) caused by the
 fact that possession is not purely a legal concept. "Possession," 252. In Ram Dass v. Davinder163 , this Court stated that possession and

occupation in common parlance may be used interchangeably, but in 162 (1979) 4 SCC 274
163 (2004) 3 SCC 684 223 law possession amounts to holding property as an owner, while to

occupy is to keep possession by being present in it. In Bhinka & Ors. v.

Charan Singh , Bhinka & Ors. v. Charan Singh 164, this court considered

the dichotomy between taking and retaining possession. They are

mutually exclusive expressions and apply to two different situations.

The word ‘taking’ applies to a person taking possession of a land

otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the law, while the

word ‘retaining’ applies to a person taking possession in accordance

with the provisions of the law, but subsequently retaining the same

illegally. In Bhinka & Ors. (supra), as to retaining possession, it was

observed: Considering the gravamen of the fraud, the Chief Secretary of the State

was directed to trace out such officials and to take suitable action

against each of them. It was also held by this Court that alienation of

land subsequent to notification under Section 4(1) is void and no title

passes on the basis of such sale deed. This Court held that once land

vested in the State free from all encumbrances, it cannot be divested.

Once land has been acquired, it cannot be restored to tenure-

holders/persons interested, even if it is not used for the purpose for

which it is so acquired. Once possession of land has been taken, it vests

in the State free from all encumbrances. Under sections 16 and 17 , the

acquired property becomes the property of the Government without any

limitation or condition either as to title or possession. Reliance has been

placed on Fruit and Vegetable Merchants Union (supra): Vesting, in general sense, means vesting in possession. Vesting may

include vesting of interest too. This Court observed thus: owner over the property. He cannot have any animus to take the

property and to control it. Even if he has retained the possession or

otherwise trespassed upon it after possession has been taken by the 227 State, he is a trespasser and such possession of trespasser enures for

his benefit and on behalf of the owner. 257. After the land has vested in the State, the total control is of the

State. Only the State has a right to deal with the same. In Municipal

Corporation of Greater Bombay & Ors. v. Hindustan Petroleum

Corporation & Anr167 , this Court discussed the concept of vesting in the

context of Section 220 of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act. It has

referred to various decisions including that of Richardson v. Robertson,

(1862) 6 LT 75 thus: Prima facie ‘vesting’ in possession is the more natural
 meaning. The expressions ‘investiture’ — ‘clothing’ — and
 whatever else be the explanation as to the origin of the
 word, point prima facie rather to the enjoyment than to the
 obtaining of a right. But I am willing to accede to the
 argument that was pressed at the Bar, that by long usage
 ‘vesting’ originally means the having obtained an absolute
 and indefeasible right, as contradistinguished from the not
 having so obtained it. But it cannot be disputed that the
 word ‘vesting’ may mean, and often does mean, that which
 is its primary etymological signification, namely, vesting in
 possession.” 15. We are, therefore, of the view that the word “vest” means
 vesting in title, vesting in possession or vesting in a limited sense,
 as indicated in the context in which it is used in a particular
 provision of the Act.”
 (emphasis supplied) 167 2001 (8) SCC 143 228 258. The word ‘vest’ has to be construed in the context in which it is

used in a particular provision of the Act. Vesting is absolute and free

from all encumbrances that includes possession. Once there is vesting

of land, once possession has been taken, section 24(2) does not

contemplate divesting of the property from the State as mentioned

above. 259. Now, the court would examine the mode of taking possession

under the Act of 1894 as laid down by this Court. In Balwant Narayan

Bhagde (supra) it was observed that the act of Tehsildar in going on the

spot and inspecting the land was sufficient to constitute taking of

possession. Thereafter, it would not be open to the Government or the

Commission to withdraw from the acquisition under Section 48(1) of the

Act. It was held thus: 260. In Tamil Nadu Housing Board v. A. Viswam (supra) it was held that

drawing of Panchnama in the presence of witnesses would constitute a

mode of taking possession. This court observed: 261. In Banda Development Authority (supra) this Court held that

preparing a Panchnama is sufficient to take possession. This Court has

laid down thus: 262. In State of Tamil Nadu and Anr. v. Mahalakshmi Ammal and Ors. ,

(supra), this court dealt with the effect of vesting on possession and

mode of taking it and opined thus: 263. In Balmokand Khatri Educational and Industrial Trust, Amritsar v.

State of Punjab & Ors168 , this Court ruled that under compulsory

acquisition it is difficult to take physical possession of land. The normal

mode of taking possession is by way of drafting the Panchnama in the

presence of Panchas. This Court observed thus: affidavit filed in the High Court, it was stated that apart from the
 acquired land, the appellant also owned 482 canals 19 marlas of
 land. Thereby, it is seen that the appellant is not disabled to
 proceed with the continuation of the educational institution which
 it seeks to establish. It is then contended that an opportunity may
 be given to the appellant to make a representation to the State
 Government. We find that it is not necessary for us to give any
 such liberty since acquisition process has already been
 completed.” 168 (1996) 4 SCC 212 232 264. In P.K. Kalburqi v. State of Karnataka and Ors. , 169, with respect of

mode of possession, this Court laid down as under: 265. In Sita Ram Bhandar Society, New Delhi (supra) this Court held

that when possession of large area of land is to be taken, then it is

permissible to take possession by drawing Panchnama. A similar view

was expressed in Om Prakash Verma & Ors (supra) which stated that: 266. In M. Venkatesh and Ors. v. Commissioner, Bangalore Development

Authority , etc.170, a three-Judge Bench of this Court has opined that one

of the modes of taking possession is by drawing panchnama. The Court

observed: 267. In Ram Singh v. Jammu Development Authority 171, this Court

stated that the mode of taking possession is by drawing a Panchnama. Concerning the mode of taking possession in any other land, law to a

170 (2015) 17 SCC 1 171 2017 (13) SCC 474 234 similar effect has been laid down in NAL Layout Residents Association

v. Bangalore Development Authority172 . Certain decisions were cited with

respect to other statutes regarding coalfields etc. and how the

possession is taken and vesting is to what extent. Those have to be seen

in the context of the particular Act. Possession comprises of various

rights, thus it has to be couched in a particular statute for which we

have a plethora of decisions of this Court. Hence, we need not fall back

on the decisions in other cases. The decision in Burrakur Coal Co. Ltd. (supra) held that a person can be said to be in possession of minerals

contained in a well-defined mining area even though his actual physical

possession is confined to a small portion. Possession in part extends to

the whole of the area. The decision does not help the cause of the

petitioner. Once possession has been taken by drawing a Panchnama,

the State is deemed to be in possession of the entire area and not for a

part. There is absolute vesting in Government with possession and

control free from all encumbrances as specifically provided in Section

16 of the Act of 1894. 268. Maguni Charan Dwivedi v. State of Orissa173 , dealt with the

provision of land laws requiring actual cultivating possession with

which we are not concerned here. Sri Tarkeshwar Sio Thakur Jiu v. Dar

Dass Dey & Co.174 , it was again a case relating to mining. The decision

172 (2018) 12 SCC 400 173 1976 (2) SCC 134
174 1979 (3) SCC 106 235 is of no avail. The decision in Ramesh Bejoy Sharma v. Pashupati Rai175 related to khas possession and physical possession of the tenant with

which we are not concerned in the instant case, and the decision has

no relevance so as to determine the expression. In the instant case, we

are not dealing with the question, what are the rights to be conferred

on the actual cultivators under revenue laws? 269. Karanpura Development Co. v. Union of India176 , was again a case

of mines. In Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. State of Gujarat177 , this Court relied

upon Tamil Nadu Housing Board v. A. Viswam , (supra), Balmokand

Khatri Educational & Industrial Trust (supra) and held that drawing of

Panchnama is sufficient to take possession and acquisition was held to

be valid. 270. The decision in Velaxan Kumar (supra) cannot be said to be laying

down the law correctly. The Court considered the photographs also to

hold that the possession was not taken. Photographs cannot evidence

as to whether possession was taken or not. Drawing of a Panchnama is

an accepted mode of taking possession. Even after re-entry, a

photograph can be taken; equally, it taken be taken after committing

trespass. Such documents cannot prevail over the established mode of

proving whether possession is taken, of lands. Photographs can be of

little use, much less can they be a proof of possession. A person may

175 (1979) 4 SCC 27
176 (1988) Supp. SCC 488 177 (1998) 4 SCC 387 236 re-enter for a short period or only to have photograph. That would not

impinge adversely on the proceedings of taking possession by drawing

Panchnama, which has been a rarely recognised and settled mode of

taking possession. 271. In the decision in Raghbir Singh Sehrawat v. State of Haryana178 ,

the observation made was that it is not possible to take the possession

of entire land in a day on which the award was declared, cannot be

accepted as laying down the law correctly and same is contrary to a

large number of precedents. The decision in Narmada Bachao Andolan

v. State of M.P179 , is confined to particular facts of the case. The

Commissioner was appointed to find out possession on the spot. DVDs.

and CDs were seen to hold that the landowners were in possession. The

District Judge, Indore, recorded the statements of the tenure-holder.

We do not approve the method of determining the possession by

appointment of Commissioner or by DVDs and CDs as an acceptable

mode of proving taking of possession. The drawing of Panchnama

contemporaneously is sufficient and it is not open to a court

Commissioner to determine the factum of possession within the purview

of Order XXVII, Rule 9 CPC . Whether possession has been taken, or not,

is not a matter that a court appointed Commissioner cannot opine.

However, drawing of Panchnama by itself is enough and is a proof of the

fact that possession has been taken. 178 (2012) 1 SCC 792 179 (2011) 7 SCC 639 237 272. It was submitted on behalf of landowners that under Section 24 the expression used is not possession but physical possession. In our

opinion, under the Act of 1894 when possession is taken after award is

passed under section 16 or under section 17 before the passing of the

award, land absolutely vests in the State on drawing of Panchnama of

taking possession, which is the mode of taking possession. Thereafter,

any re-entry in possession or retaining the possession is wholly illegal

and trespasser’s possession inures for the benefit of the owner and even

in the case of open land, possession is deemed to be that of the owner.

When the land is vacant and is lying open, it is presumed to be that of

the owner by this Court as held in Kashi Bai v. Sudha Rani Ghose180 .

Mere re-entry on Government land once it is acquired and vests

absolutely in the State (under the Act of 1894) does not confer, any right

to it and Section 24(2) does not have the effect of divesting the land once

it vests in the State. 273. In Maria Margadia Sequeria v Erasmo Jack De Sequeria 181,

approving a decision of this Court, this court clarified what amounts to

"possession" in law and held: 274. In the decision reported as National Thermal Power Ltd v Mahesh

Dutta182 this court held that: the details of the land and the area thereof had also been
 mentioned in the certificate of possession; even NTPC in its letter
 dated 24th February, 1986 stated that possession had not been
 delivered only in respect of land situated in four villages
 mentioned therein. Indisputably NTPC got possession over
 10.215 acres of land. It raised constructions thereover. It is
 difficult to comprehend that if the NTPC had paid 80% of the total
 compensation as provided for under sub-section (3A) of Section
 17 of the Act, out of 65.713 acres of land it had obtained
 possession only in respect of about 10.215 acres of land and still
 for such a long time it kept mum. Ex-facie, therefore, it is difficult
 to accept that merely symbolic possession had been taken.” 275. In V. Chandrasekaran & Anr. v. Administrative Officer & Ors.183 ,

the land was acquired and possession was handed over to the

authorities. Later on the land was sold, documents were manipulated,

and flats were constructed in an illegal manner. It was held that the

land once acquired, cannot be restored. The State has no right to

reconvey the land and no person can claim such a right nor derive an

advantage. Sale of land after a notification under section 4 of the LA Act

was held to be void. It was held in the facts of the case that the judicial

process cannot be used to subvert its way. Such persons must not be

permitted to profit from the frivolous litigation, and they must be

prevented from taking false pleas by relying on forged documents or

illegal action. 276. We have seen the blatant misuse of the provisions of section 24(2) .

Acquisitions that were completed several decades before even to say 50-

183 (2012) 12 SCC 133 240 60 years ago, or even as far back as 90 years ago were questioned; cases

filed were dismissed. References were sought claiming higher

compensation and higher compensation had been ordered. Now, there

is a fresh bout of litigation started by erstwhile owners even after having

received the compensation in many cases by submitting that possession

has not been taken and taking of possession by drawing a Panchnama

was illegal and they are in physical possession. As such, there is lapse

of proceedings. 277. The court is alive to the fact that are a large number of cases

where, after acquisition land has been handed over to various

corporations, local authorities, acquiring bodies, etc. After depositing

compensation (for the acquisition) those bodies and authorities have

been handed possession of lands. They, in turn, after development of

such acquired lands have handed over properties; third party interests

have intervened and now declaration is sought under the cover of section 24(2) to invalidate all such actions. As held by us, section 24 does not intend to cover such cases at all and such gross misuse of the

provisions of law must stop. Title once vested, cannot be obliterated,

without an express legal provision; in any case, even if the landowners’

argument that after possession too, in case of non-payment of

compensation, the acquisition would lapse, were for arguments’ sake,

be accepted, these third party owners would be deprived of their lands,

lawfully acquired by them, without compensation of any sort. Thus, we 241 have no hesitation to overrule the decisions in Velaxan Kumar (supra)

and Narmada Bachao Andolan (supra), with regard to mode of taking

possession. We hold that drawing of Panchnama of taking possession is

the mode of taking possession in land acquisition cases, thereupon land

vests in the State and any re-entry or retaining the possession thereafter

is unlawful and does not inure for conferring benefits under section

24(2) of the Act of 2013. In Re Question No.5: the effect of interim order of Court 278. On behalf of acquiring authorities, it was submitted that period

spent during the interim stay or injunction by which Authorities have

not been able to take possession or to make payment, has to be

excluded from computing the period of 5 years or more as provided in Section 24(2) . It was submitted that in case authorities are restrained

by interim order passed by the court in a pending litigation, the land

acquisition cannot lapse by including the period for which interim stay

order preventing the Authorities from taking action has operated.

Reliance has been placed on the principles contained in maxim “actus

curiae neminem gravabit”. It was also submitted even in the absence of

the provisions specifically excluding the period of interim

stay/injunction having been made in Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013, the

aforesaid principles are attracted and the period has to be excluded. 279. The landowners, on the other hand argued that there is no valid

reason to exclude the period spent during the interim order by the court 242 from the prescribed period of 5 years under Section 24(2) of the Act of

2013. For the main reason that the legislature has not specially

provided for exclusion of such period in Section 24 and secondly, where

Parliament has desired to exclude the period of interim order has made

provision for exclusion of such period in proviso to Section 19 and

explanation to Section 69 of the Act of 2013. In the Act of 1894, there

was a similar provision made in Section 6 and explanation to Section

11A. During the process of consultation of the stakeholders while

enacting the Act of 2013, the Government of NCT of Delhi had suggested

that an explanation be added in the provisions of Section 24 to exclude

the period of interim order passed by the court. The suggestion was not

accepted by the Department of Land Reforms on the ground that same

would be in conflict with the retrospective effect of the clause.

Ultimately, in the final recommendation, the period of interim order of

the court was not made. Thus, it is “casus omissus” which cannot be

applied by the court. The maxim “actus curiæ neminem gravabit” is not

applied and is rare if ever applied to interpret the statute. 280. In Padma Sundar Rao (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court

has declined to rely on the maxim and similarly in Khandaka Jain

Jewellers , (supra), the maxim was not applied. It was urged that in

Snell’s Equity (33rd Edition), 2015 with respect to the maxim, it has been

observed that maxim of equity is not a specific rule of principle of law.

It is a statement of a broad theme which underlies equitable concepts 243 and principles. As a result, the utility of equitable maxim is limited. It

can provide some support to the court when there is some uncertainty

as to the scope of a particular rule of principle and a court in exercising

an equitable discretion may apply the same. 281. Reference was also made to decision of Parson Tools and Plants (supra) to contend that court cannot supply the omission by engrafting

on it or introducing in it under the guise of interpretation. To do so, it

would be entrenching upon the preserves of the legislature. Where

under Section 24 cut-off date is prescribed and there is no starting point

and period for completion of task, the notion of excluding time spent in

litigations is an alien concept to the provisions. The court must assume

that the old law was oppressive and unjust and such introduction of

exclusion of time may create complication in the working of the statute.

It was also submitted that common law principles can be excluded by

the legislature by express or implied implication in the statute itself. In

this regard, reliance has been placed upon Union of India v. SICOM

Ltd184 . It was submitted on behalf of landowners that no provision had

been enacted by issuing any ordinance and later amending the law, for

providing for exclusion of the time spent on interim order under Section

24(2) , but Ordinance lapsed. The legislature could have amended the

provisions as such the court cannot exclude the period. 184 (2009) 2 SCC 121 244 282. Before we go to various rival submissions, the pivotal question for

consideration is the interpretation of Section 24 and aims and objectives

of the Act of 2013. Section 24 contemplates that the proceedings

initiated under the Act of 1894, are pending as on the date on which

Act of 2013 has been enacted and if no award has been passed in the

proceedings, then there is no lapse and only determination of

compensation has to be made under the Act of 2013. Where an award

has been passed, it is provided under Section 24(1)(b) , the pending

proceedings shall continue under the provisions of the Act of 1894 as if

the old Act has not been repealed. The provisions totally exclude the

applicability of any provision of Act of 2013. There are two requirements

under Section 24(2) , which are to be met by the Authorities, where

award has been made 5 years or more prior to the commencement of

the Act of 2013, if the physical possession of the land has not been

taken nor compensation has been paid. If possession has been taken,

compensation has to be paid by the acquiring authorities. The time of

five years is provided for authorities to take action, not to sleep over the

matter. In case of lethargy or machinery and default on the part of the

Authorities and for no other reason the lapse is provided. Lapse is

provided only in case of default by Authorities acquiring the land, not

caused by any other reason or order of the court. When the

interpretation of the provision is clear, there was no necessity for

Parliament to make such a provision under Section 24(2) for exclusion

of the period of the interim order. Though it has excluded the period of 245 interim order for making declaration under the proviso to Sections 19(7) and exclusion has also been made for computation of the period under Section 69 of the Act of 2013. It is due to the necessity to provide so in

view of the language of the provision. Under section 69 of the Act of

2013, additional compensation at the rate of 12 per cent has to be given

on market value for the period commencing from the date of the

publication of the preliminary notification under Section 11 . The

additional compensation at the rate of 12 per cent has been excluded

for the period acquisition proceedings have been held up on account of

the interim injunction order of any court. The provisions of Section 24 cast an obligation upon the Authorities to take steps meaning thereby

that it is open to them to take such steps, and inaction or lethargy on

their part has not been countenanced by Parliament. Resultantly, lapse

of proceedings takes place. It is by the very nature of the provisions if

it was not possible for authorities for any reason not attributable to

them or the Government to take requisite steps, the period has to be

excluded. The Minister concerned Shri Jairam Ramesh in answer to

the debate quoted above has made it clear that time limit of five years

has been fixed for the Authorities to take action. If we do not exclude

the period of interim order, the very spirit of the provision will be

violated. 283. With respect to fixation of period is five years for the executive

Authorities to take the requisite steps, Delhi Development Authority v. 246 Sukhbir Singh and Ors. (supra) observed that what the legislature is in

effect telling the executive is that they ought to have put their house in

order and completed the acquisition proceedings within a reasonable

time after the pronouncement of award. Not having done so even after

a leeway of five years, would cross the limits of legislative tolerance, after

which the whole proceeding would be deemed to have lapsed. Thus, it

is apparent from the decision of Delhi Development Authority v. Sukhbir

Singh and Ors. (supra), which is relied upon by the landowners, that

time limit is fixed for the executive authorities to take steps. In case

they are prevented by the court's order, obviously, as per the

interpretation of the provisions is that such period has to be excluded.

In case such a provision would have been made, it would have been “ex

abundanti cautela”. There was no necessity of making such a provision

even if this proposition has been discussed during the formulation of

legislation. However, the provision providing exclusion has been

enacted. It casts an obligation upon the Authorities to take requisite

steps within five years, that by itself excludes such period of interim

order. 284. It was pointed out that in certain States, amendments have been

incorporated in Section 24(2) , excluding the period of interim order

passed by the Court. In our opinion, there is no such necessity for

providing exclusion of time and it has been done by the States “ex

abundanti cautela” and there is no doubt about it that Central 247 Government has also tried to introduce the provision of the exclusion of

time by issuance of ordinances, however, they lapsed. It was due to the

interpretation and the decision rendered by this Court in Shree Balaji

Nagar Residential Association (supra), which cannot be said to be laying

down the law correctly. 285. The intent of the Act of 2013, is not to benefit litigants only. It

has introduced a new regime which is beneficial to the landowners. The

provisions of Section 24 by itself do not intend to confer the benefits on

litigating parties, while as per Section 114 of the Act of 2013 and section

6 of the General Clauses Act, has to be litigated as per the provisions of

the Act of 1894. 286. Section 24 treats land acquisition proceedings as one and

prescribes the transition mechanism for the said proceedings.

Possession of the land holdings in normal course is to be taken at one

go, not in piecemeal by the Authorities. Once award is made,

possession can be taken and on that the land vests in State under section 16 , and under Section 17(1) of the Act of 1894, the possession

of any land can be taken for public purposes in cases of urgency without

passing of the award. The expression “acquisition proceedings” is

referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 24 and its proviso

makes it clear that in case in majority of the landholdings compensation

has not been deposited, all the beneficiaries as on the date of

notification under Section 4 (of the Act of 1894) shall be entitled to 248 compensation in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 2013.

That also intends to give benefits to all the concerned. Payment of

compensation too has to be made. Possession of land holdings is to be

taken in terms of the notification under Section 4 and declaration under section 6 and payment has to be made to the beneficiaries. In case

payment has not been made to the landowners nor is possession taken,

there is a lapse. In case compensation has not been deposited within 5

years with respect to majority of land holdings, then all the beneficiaries

are entitled for higher compensation under the Act of 2013. 287. In the opinion of this court it is not the intendment of the Act of

2013 that those who have litigated should get benefits of higher

compensation as contemplated under Section 24 benefit is conferred on

all beneficiaries. It is not intended by the provisions that in piecemeal

the persons who have litigated and have obtained the interim order

should get the benefits of the provisions of the Act of 2013. Those who

have accepted the compensation within 5 years and handed over the

possession too, are to be benefited, in case amount has not been

deposited with respect to majority of holdings. There are cases in which

projects have come up in part and as per plan rest of the area is required

for planned development with respect to which interim stays have been

obtained. It is not the intendment of the law to deliver advantage to

relentless litigants. It cannot be said hence, that it was due to the

inaction of the authorities that possession could not be taken within 5 249 years. Public policy is not to foment or foster litigation but put an end

to it. In several instances, in various High Courts writ petitions were

dismissed by single judge Benches and the writ appeals were pending

for a long time and in which, with respect to part of land of the projects,

efforts were made to obtain the benefit of Section 24(2) . Parliament in

our view did not intend to confer benefits to such litigants for the

aforementioned reasons. Litigation may be frivolous or may be worthy.

Such litigants have to stand on the strength of their own case and in

such a case provisions of Section 114 of the Act of 2013 and Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, are clearly attracted and such

proceedings have to be continued under the provisions of the old Act

that would be in the spirit of Section 24(1)(b) itself of the Act of 2013. Section 6(b) of the General Clauses Act, 1897, provides that repeal will

not affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or

anything duly done or suffered thereunder. Section 6(c) states that

repeal would not affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability

acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed. When

there is a provision itself in Section 24(1)(b) of continuance of the

proceedings where award has been passed under the Act of 1894, for

the purposes of Section 24 as provided in Section 24(b) , the provisions

of Section 114 is clearly attracted so as the provisions of Section 6 of

the General Clauses Act, 1897, to the extent of non obstante clause of Section 24 , where possession has not been taken nor payment has been

made, there is a lapse, that too by the inaction of the Authorities. Any 250 court’s interim order cannot be said to be inaction of the authorities or

agencies; thus, time period is not to be included for counting the 5 years

period as envisaged in Section 24(2) . As per proviso to Section 24(2) ,

where possession has been taken, but compensation has not been paid

or deposited with respect to majority of land holdings, all the

beneficiaries would be entitled for higher compensation only to that

extent, the provisions of Section 114 of the Act of 2013, would be

superseded but it would not obliterate the general application of Section

6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which deals with effect of repeal

except as provided in section 24(2) and its proviso. 288. It was submitted on behalf of acquiring authorities that principle

of casus omissus is not necessarily applicable in all the cases. Reliance

has been placed on Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher185, in which

following observations have been made: Approaching this case in that way, I cannot help feeling that the
 legislature had not specifically in mind a contingent burden such
 as we have here. If it had, would it not have put it on the same
 footing as an actual burden? I think it would. It would have
 permitted an increase of rent when the terms were so changed as
 to put a positive legal burden on the landlord. If the parties
 expressly agreed between themselves the amount of the increase
 on that account the court would give effect to their agreement.
 But if, as here, they did not direct their minds to the point, the
 court has itself to assess the amount of the increase. It has to
 say how much the tenant should pay "in respect of" the transfer
 of this burden to the landlord. It should do this by asking what
 a willing tenant would agree to pay and a willing landlord would
 agree to accept in respect of it. Just as in the earlier cases the
 courts were able to assess the value of the "fair wear and tear" 289. Reliance was also placed on M. Pentiah v. Muddala

Veeramallappa186 , in which this Court observed that where the

language of a statute in its ordinary meaning and grammatical

construction, leads to a manifest contradiction of the apparent purpose

of the enactment or to some inconvenience or absurdity, hardship or 186 (1961) 2 SCR 295 252 injustice, which is not intended, a construction may be put upon it

which modifies the meaning of the words and even the structure of the

sentence. In Hameedia Hardware Stores v. B. Mohan Lal Sowcar187 , it

was held that absurdity has to be avoided. In that decision reliance was

placed on the decision in Seaford Court Estates Ltd. (supra), wherein it

was observed that when a defect or omission appears, a judge cannot

simply fold his hands and blame the draftsman. It is the duty to give

force and life to the intention of the legislature. The court has to

construe the words of the statute in a reasonable way having regard to

the context. 290. Again, in Madan Singh Shekhawat v. Union of India188 , the

decision in Seaford Court Estates Ltd. (supra) has been followed.

Following observations have been made: 291. There cannot be any dispute with the above propositions.

However, in the present case, when we construe the provisions of Section 24 , it clearly ousts the period spent during the interim stay of

the court. Five years’ period is fixed for the purpose to take action, if

they have not taken the action for 5 years or more, then there is lapse,

187 (1988) 2 SCC 513
188 (1999) 6 SCC 459 253 not otherwise. Even if there had been a provision made with respect to

the exclusion of time spent in the court proceedings with respect to

interim stay due to court’s order, it could have been ex abundanti

cautela, which has been considered by this Court in Union of India and

Ors. v. Modi Rubber Ltd189 . It would have been superfluous to make

such a provision. Following observations were made in Modi Rubber

Ltd. (supra): Here, in the present notifications, the words duty of excise
 leviable under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ’ do not find
 a place as in the other notifications relied upon by the
 respondents. But, that does not necessarily lead to the inference
 that the expression “duty of excise” in these notifications was
 intended to refer to all duties of excise including special and
 auxiliary duties of excise. The absence of these words does not
 absolve us from the obligation to interpret the expression “duty of
 excise” in these notifications. We have still to construe this
 expression — what is its meaning and import — and that has to
 be done bearing in mind the context in which it occurs. We have
 already pointed out that these notifications having been issued
 under Rule 8(1), the expression “duty of excise” in these
 notifications must bear the same meaning which it has in Rule
 8(1) and that meaning clearly is — excise duty payable under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 as envisaged in Rule 2 clause (v). It cannot in the circumstances bear an extended meaning so
 as to include special excise duty and auxiliary excise duty.”
 (emphasis supplied) 292. Relying on State of U.P. and Ors. v. Hindustan Aluminium Corpn.

and Ors.,190 it was submitted that whether a piece of legislation has

spent itself or exhausted in operation are matters of law and no such

rights exist in a citizen to ask for a declaration that the law has been

impliedly repealed on any such ground. In extreme and clear cases, no

190 (1979) 3 SCC 229 255 doubt, an antiquated law may be said to have become obsolete and,

more so, if it is a penal law and has become incapable of user by a

drastic change in the circumstances. Craies on Statute Law, Seventh

Edition, has discussed about different classes of enactments such as

expired, spent, repealed in general terms, virtually repealed, superseded

and obsolete. 293. The Act of 2013 operates prospectively. Section 114 of the Act of

2013, effects a repeal, but with certain savings, in accordance with Section 24 . Thus, acquisition proceedings are preserved under the Act

of 1894, till the stage of making of award; where award is not made, the

provisions of compensation under the Act of 2013 apply; where award

is made, further proceedings would be under the new Act (of 2013). In

case possession has been taken by the authorities concerning awards

which were made 5 years or before, under the Act of 1894 and such

proceedings are pending, that would be due to inaction of the

authorities on the date on which the Act of 2013 came into force. The

lapse (of acquisition) and higher compensation to follow only under Section 24(2) , where compensation is not paid, nor possession of lands

is taken. A period of 5 years or more has been provided under Section 24. In the case, however, where possession is taken, but compensation

is not deposited in respect of majority landholdings, compensation

under the Act of 2013 is payable to all- including those who received

compensation earlier. 294. Reliance has been placed on the decision in Syndicate Bank v.

Prabha D. Naik and Anr191 , in which it was observed that the legislature

is supposed to be conscious of the needs of the society at large and the

prevalent laws. It was held that there is no reason for assuming that

the legislature was not aware of the difficulties and the prevailing

situation. There is no dispute with the aforesaid proposition; however,

it does not espouse the cause of the landowners. 295. The correctness of the decision of Shree Balaji Nagar Residential

Association (supra) was doubted in Yogesh Neema and Ors. (supra), and

the matter was referred to a larger Bench. In Shree Balaji Nagar

Residential Association (supra) following observations were made: 296. This Court held that the conscious omission by Parliament in Section 24(2) to exclude the period, an interim order operates is to be

given effect and that the court should not fill in the gap. In Indore

Development Authority (supra), the decision rendered in Shree Balaji

Nagar Residential Association (supra) was overruled with consensus and

it was not the subject matter in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra).

However, the learned counsel for the parties had urged that this

question arises as such it should be framed and considered by the

present larger Bench. Hence, we have examined the matter afresh. 297. In cases where some landowners have chosen to take recourse to

litigation (which they have a right to) and have obtained interim orders

on taking possession or orders of status quo, as a matter of practical

reality it is not possible for the authorities or State officials to take the

possession or to make payment of the compensation. In several

instances, such interim orders also impeded the making of an award.

Now, so far as awards (and compensation payments, pursuant to such

proceedings were concerned) the period provided for making of awards

under the Act of 2013 could be excluded by virtue of Explanation to 258 Section 11A.192 Thus, no fault of inaction can be attributed to the

authorities and those who had obtained such interim orders, cannot

benefit by their own action in filing litigation, which may or may not be

meritorious. Apart from the question of merits, when there is an interim

order with respect to the possession or order of status quo or stay of

further proceedings, the authorities cannot proceed; nor can they pay

compensation. Their obligations are intertwined with the scheme of

land acquisition. It is observed that authorities may wait in the

proceedings till the interim order is vacated. 298. In our considered opinion, litigation which initiated by the

landowners has to be decided on its own merits and the benefits of Section 24(2) should not be available to the litigants. In case there is

no interim order, they can get the benefits they are entitled to, not

otherwise as a result of fruit of litigation, delays and dilatory tactics and

some time it may be wholly frivolous pleas and forged documents as

observed in V. Chandrasekaran (supra) mentioned above. 192 “11-A. Period within which an award shall be made
The Collcctor shall make an award under section 11 within a period of two years from the
date of the publication of the declaration and ifno award is made within that period. the
entire proceedings for the acquisition ofthc land shall lapse: 299. In Abhey Ram (Dead) by L.Rs. and Ors. v. Union of India and

Ors193. , this Court considered the extended meaning of words "stay of

the action or proceedings". It was observed that any type of orders

passed by this Court would be an inhibitive action on the part of the

Authorities to proceed further. This Court observed thus: à-vis the writ petitioners therein. The question that arises for
 consideration is whether the stay obtained by some of the
 persons who prohibited the respondents from publication of the
 declaration under Section 6 would equally be extendible to the
 cases relating to the appellants. We proceed on the premise that
 the appellants had not obtained any stay of the publication of the
 declaration but since the High Court in some of the cases has, in
 fact, prohibited them as extracted hereinbefore, from publication
 of the declaration, necessarily, when the Court has not restricted
 the declaration in the impugned orders in support of the
 petitioners therein, the officers had to hold back their hands till
 the matters were disposed of. In fact, this Court has given
 extended meaning to the orders of stay or proceeding in various
 cases, namely, Yusufbhai Noormohmed Nendoliya v. State of
 Gujarat , ( 1991) 4 SCC 531, Hansraj H. Jain v. State of
 Maharashtra , ( 1993) 3 SCC 634, Sangappa Gurulingappa Sajjan
 v. State of Karnataka , ( 1994) 4 SCC 145, Gandhi Grah Nirman
 Sahkari Samiti Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan , ( 1993) 2 SCC 662, G.
 Narayanaswamy Reddy v. Govt. of Karnataka , ( 1991) 3 SCC 261
 and Roshnara Begum v. Union of India , (1986) 1 Apex Dec 6. The
 words “stay of the action or proceeding” have been widely
 interpreted by this Court and mean that any type of the orders
 passed by this Court would be an inhibitive action on the part of
 the authorities to proceed further. When the action of conducting
 an enquiry under Section 5-A was put in issue and the
 declaration under Section 6 was questioned, necessarily unless
 the Court holds that enquiry under Section 5-A was properly
 conducted and the declaration published under Section 6 was
 valid, it would not be open to the officers to proceed further into
 the matter. As a consequence, the stay granted in respect of some
 would be applicable to others also who had not obtained stay in
 that behalf. We are not concerned with the correctness of the
 earlier direction with regard to Section 5-A enquiry and
 consideration of objections as it was not challenged by the
 respondent Union. We express no opinion on its correctness,
 though it is open to doubt.” 193 (1997) 5 SCC 421 260 300. In Om Parkash v. Union of India and Ors.194 , it was observed that

interim order of stay granted in one of the matters of the landowners

would put complete restraint on the respondents to proceed further to

issue declaration under Section 6 of the Act. It was observed as under: 301. In Suresh Chand v. Gulam Chisti195 , this Court considered the

provision where tenant would not be entitled to the protection of Section 39. If the suit had prolonged beyond ten years, then the tenant would

be entitled to such protection. The interpretation suggested was not

accepted by this Court as that would encourage the tenant to protract

the litigation. This Court frowned upon obtaining of fruits by

protracting the litigation on the ground of public policy. This Court

observed thus: emption as it existed on the date of passing of the decree.”
 (emphasis supplied) 303. In Sarah Mathew (supra), it was observed that delay caused by the

court in taking cognizance cannot deny justice to the litigant. A court

of law would interpret and make the reasonable construction rather

than applying a doctrine which would make the provision

unsustainable and ultra vires the Constitution. This Court observed

thus: 304. When the authorities are disabled from performing duties due to

impossibility, would be a good excuse for them to save them from rigour

of provisions of Section 24(2) . A litigant may be right or wrong. He

cannot be permitted to take advantage of a situation created by him of

interim order. The doctrine “commodum ex-injuria sua Nemo habere

debet" that is convenience cannot accrue to a party from his own wrong.

Provisions of Section 24 do not discriminate litigants or non-litigants

and treat them differently with respect to the same acquisition,

otherwise, anomalous results may occur and provisions may become

discriminatory in itself. 305. In Union of India v. Shiv Raj197 , this Court did not consider the

question of exclusion of the time. In Karnail Kaur and Ors. v. State of

Punjab and Ors. , (supra) and in Shree Balaji Nagar Residential

Association (supra), various aspects including the interpretation of

provisions of Section 24 were not taken into consideration. Thus, the

said rulings cannot be said to be laying down good law. 197 2014 (6) SCC 564 264 306. In Union of India and Ors. v. North Telumer Colliery & Ors198 , this

Court observed that delaying tactics should not be permitted to fructify.

By causing delay, the owner would get huge amount of interest, but he

may not get a penny out of the principal amount. It would amount to

conferring unjust benefit on the owners which can never be the

intention of the Parliament. This Court observed: 307. It may not be doubtful conduct to file frivolous litigation and

obtain stay; but benefit of Section 24 (2) should not be conferred on

those who prevented the taking of possession or payment of

compensation, for the period spent during the stay. 198 1989 (3) SCC 411 265 308. In Padma Sundara Rao (Dead) & Ors. (supra), this Court

considered the question of casus omissus and observed thus: 16. The plea relating to the applicability of the stare decisis
 principles is clearly unacceptable. The decision in K.
 Chinnathambi Gounder v. Government of T.N. , AIR 1980 Mad 251
 was rendered on 22-6-1979, i.e., much prior to the amendment
 by the 1984 Act. If the legislature intended to give a new lease of
 life in those cases where the declaration under Section 6 is
 quashed, there is no reason why it could not have done so by
 specifically providing for it. The fact that the legislature
 specifically provided for periods covered by orders of stay or 266 injunction clearly shows that no other period was intended to be
 excluded and that there is no scope for providing any other period
 of limitation. The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit
 highlighted by the Full Bench of the Madras High Court has no
 application to the fact situation of this case.” 309. There is no dispute with the aforesaid proposition that casus

omissus cannot be applied by the court and in case of clear necessity,

the court has to interpret the law, if the provision of law is misused and

subjected to abuse of process of law. It is for the legislature to amend,

modify and repeal a law, if deemed necessary. Because of the above-

mentioned interpretation of the provisions of Section 24 itself, we are

unable to accept the submission made. We are not applying casus

omissus as urged. In Padma Sundara Rao (supra), this Court

considered the period of limitation for issuances of declaration under Section 6 of the Act of 1894. The period has been stretched further in

the case of State of Karnataka v. D.C. Nanjudaiah 199. Few expressions

in the aforesaid decision were held to be incorrect. In Padma Sundara

Rao (supra), this Court held that when a period, which the legislature

has specifically provided, is covered by orders of stay and injunction, no

other period could be intended to be excluded by providing time period

to run from the date of service of the High Court’s order and it would

not be open to court to add to that period. The question in Padma

Sundara Rao (supra) was totally different and it was of counting the

period over and above excluded in the provisions, inter alia, from the

very interpretation of Section 24 . 199 (1996) 10 SCC 619 267 310. As regards application of the maxim to a statute, in Rana Girders

Ltd. v. Union of India200 , this Court observed that the statutory provision

would prevail upon the common law principles. The decision in Rana

Girders Ltd. (supra) was considered in Union of India (supra) where this

Court observed thus: 311. There is no doubt that common law principles have to be weighed

upon the statutory provision and latter has to prevail, but the statutory

provision itself makes it clear that in the instant matter such period has

to be excluded, thus, the principles of common law also apply with full 200 2013 (10) SCC 746 268 force. In Mary Angel and Ors. v. State of T.N.201 , the maxim "expressio

unius est exclusio alterius" came to be considered by this Court. It was

held that maxim needs to be applied when its application having regard

to the subject matter to which it is to be applied, leads to inconsistency

or injustice. This Court observed: 312. The maxim “lex non cogit ad impossibilia” means that the law does

not expect the performance of the impossible. Though payment is

possible but the logic of payment is relevant. There are cases in which

compensation was tendered, but refused and then deposited in the

treasury. There was litigation in court, which was pending (or in some

cases, decided); earlier references for enhancement of compensation

were sought and compensation was enhanced. There was no challenge 201 1999 (5) SCC 209 269 to acquisition proceedings or taking possession etc. In pending matters

in this Court or in the High Court even in proceedings relating to

compensation, Section 24 (2) was invoked to state that proceedings have

lapsed due to non-deposit of compensation in the court or to deposit in

the treasury or otherwise due to interim order of the court needful could

not be done, as such proceedings should lapse. 313. In Chander Kishore Jha v. Mahabir Prasad202 , an election petition

was to be presented in the manner prescribed in Rule 6 of Chapter XXI-

E of the Patna High Court Rules. The rules stipulated that the election

petition, could under no circumstances, be presented to the Registrar

to save the period of limitation. The election petition could be presented

in the open court upto 4.15 p.m. i.e., working hours of the court. The

Chief Justice had passed the order that court shall not sit for the rest

after 3.15 p.m. Thus, the petition filed the next day was held to be

within time. In Mohammed Gazi v. State of M.P. & Ors203. , the maxim

“actus curiae neminem gravabit” came up for consideration along with

maxim “lex non cogit ad impossibilia” – the law does not compel a man

to perform act which is not possible. Following observations had been

made: 314. Another Roman Law maxim “nemo tenetur ad impossibilia”, means

no one is bound to do an impossibility. Though such acts of taking

possession and disbursement of compensation are not impossible, yet

they are not capable of law performance, during subsistence of a court's

order; the order has to be complied and cannot be violated. Thus, on

equitable principles also, such a period has to be excluded. In Industrial

Finance Corporation of India Ltd. v. Cannanore Spinning & Weaving Mills

Ltd. & Ors.204 , this Court observed that where law creates a duty or

charge and the party is disabled to perform it, without any default and

has no remedy over, there the law will in general excuse him. This Court

relying upon the aforesaid maxim observed as under: 315. In HUDA and Anr. v. Dr. Babeswar Kanhar & Anr 205, this Court

considered the general principle that a party prevented from doing an

act by some circumstances beyond his control, can do so at the first

subsequent opportunity as held in Sambasiva Chari v. Ramasami

Reddi206 . In Dr. Babeswar Kanhar (supra), it was observed thus: 316. In re Presidential Poll207, this Court made similar observations.

When there is a disability to perform a part of the law, such a charge

has to be excused. When performance of the formalities prescribed by

a statute is rendered impossible by circumstances over which the

persons concerned have no control, it has to be taken as a valid excuse.

The Court observed: Therefore, when it appears that the performance of the formalities
 prescribed by a statute has been rendered impossible by
 circumstances over which the persons interested had no control,
 like the act of God, the circumstances will be taken as a valid
 excuse. Where the act of God prevents the compliance of the
 words of a statute, the statutory provision is not denuded of its
 mandatory character because of supervening impossibility
 caused by the act of God. (See Broom’s Legal Maxims 10th Edn.
 At pp. 162-163 and Craies on Statute Law 6th Edn. at p. 268).” 317. In Standard Chartered Bank v. Directorate of Enforcement 208, the

legal maxim “impotentia excusat legem” has been applied to hold that

law does not compel a man to do that which cannot possibly be

performed. Though the maxim with respect to the impossibility of

207 (1974) 2 SCC 33
208 (2005) 4 SCC 530 273 performance may not be strictly applicable, however, the effect of the

court's order, for the time being, made the Authorities disable to fulfill

the obligation. Thus, when they were incapable of performing, they

have to be permitted to perform at the first available opportunity, which

is the time prescribed by the statute for them, i.e., the total period of 5

years excluding the period of the interim order. 318. The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit is founded upon the

principle due to court proceedings or acts of court, no party should

suffer. If any interim orders are made during the pendency of the

litigation, they are subject to the final decision in the matter. In case

the matter is dismissed as without merit, the interim order is

automatically dissolved. In case the matter has been filed without any

merit, the maxim is attracted commodum ex injuria sua nemo habere

debet, that is, convenience cannot accrue to a party from his own wrong.

No person ought to have the advantage of his own wrong. In case

litigation has been filed frivolously or without any basis, iniquitously in

order to delay and by that it is delayed, there is no equity in favour of

such a person. Such cases are required to be decided on merits. In Mrutunjay Pani and Anr. v. Narmada Bala Sasmal and Anr209 , this Court

observed that: 319. It is not the policy of law that untenable claims should get

fructified due to delay. Similarly, sufferance of a person who abides by

law is not permissible. The Act of 2013 does not confer the benefit on

unscrupulous litigants, but it aims at and frowns upon the lethargy of

the officials to complete the requisites within five years. 320. The States urge that by refusal to accept compensation, one

cannot take advantage of own conduct. This idea is explained in

Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes (12th Edition) by P. St. J.

Langon, wherein following observations have been made: 321. In G.T.C. Industries Ltd. v. Union of India210 , it was observed that

while vacating stay, it is the court’s duty to account for the period of

delay and to settle equities. It is not the gain which can be conferred. In Jaipur Municipal Corporation v. C. L. Mishra211 , it has been observed that

interim order merges in the final order, and it cannot have an

independent existence, cannot survive beyond final decision. In Ram 210 (1998) 3 SCC 376
211 (2005) 8 SCC 423 275 Krishna Verma v. the State of U.P212, reliance was placed on Grindlays

Bank Ltd. v. C.I.T213 . It was held that no one could be permitted to suffer

from the act of the court and in case an interim order has been passed

and ultimately petition is found to be without merit and is dismissed,

the interest of justice requires that any undeserved or unfair advantage

gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the Court must be

neutralized. 322. In Mahadeo Savlaram Shelke v. Pune Municipal Corporation 214, it

has been observed that the Court can under its inherent jurisdiction ex

debito justitiae has a duty to mitigate the damage suffered by the

defendants by the act of the court. Such action is necessary to put a

check on abuse of process of the court. In Amarjeet Singh and Ors. v.

Devi Ratan and Ors215, and Ram Krishna Verma (supra), it was observed

that no person can suffer from the act of court and unfair advantage of

the interim order must be neutralized. In Amarjeet Singh (supra), this

Court observed: U.P. SRTC, 1995 Supp (2) SCC 726, GTC Industries Ltd. v. Union
 of India, ( 1998) 3 SCC 376 and Jaipur Municipal Corpn. v. C.L.
 Mishra , (2005) 8 SCC 423.) 18. In Ram Krishna Verma v. the State of U.P. (1992) 2 SCC 620,
 this Court examined a similar issue while placing reliance upon
 its earlier judgment in Grindlays Bank Ltd. v. ITO , (1980) 2 SCC
 191 and held that no person can suffer from the act of the court and
 in case an interim order has been passed, and the petitioner
 takes advantage thereof, and ultimately the petition is found to
 be without any merit and is dismissed, the interest of justice
 requires that any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a
 party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralized." 323. In Karnataka Rare Earth and Anr. v. Senior Geologist, Department

of Mines & Geology216 , this Court observed that maxim actus curiae

neminem gravabit requires that the party should be placed in the same

position but for the court's order which is ultimately found to be not

sustainable which has resulted in one party gaining advantage which

otherwise would not have earned and the other party has suffered but

for the orders of the court. The successful party can demand the delivery

of benefit earned by the other party, or make restitution for what it has

lost. This Court observed: As the appellants have lost from the Court, they cannot be
 allowed to retain the benefit earned by them under the interim
 orders of the Court. The High Court has rightly held the
 appellants liable to be placed in the same position in which they
 would have been if this Court would not have protected them by
 issuing interim orders. All that the State Government is
 demanding from the appellants is the price of the minor minerals.
 Rent, royalty or tax has already been recovered by the State
 Government and, therefore, there is no demand under that head.
 No penal proceedings, much less any criminal proceedings, have
 been initiated against the appellants. It is absolutely incorrect to
 contend that the appellants are being asked to pay any penalty
 or are being subjected to any penal action. It is not the case of the
 appellants that they are being asked to pay the price more than
 what they have realized from the exports or that the price
 appointed by the respondent State is in any manner arbitrary or
 unreasonable." (emphasis supplied) 324. In A.R. Antulay (supra), this Court observed that it is a settled

principle that an act of the court shall prejudice no man. This maxim

actus curiae neminem gravabit is founded upon justice and good sense

and affords a safe and certain guide for the administration of the law.

No man can be denied his rights. In India, a delay occurs due to

procedural wrangles. In A.R. Antulay (supra), this Court observed: This Court in State of Gujarat v. Ramprakash P. Puri , (1970) 2
 SCR 875, reiterated the position by saying: [SCC p. 159: SCC (Cri)
 p. 31, para 8]
 “Procedure has been described to be a handmaid and not a
 mistress of law, intended to subserve and facilitate the cause of
 justice and not to govern or obstruct it. Like all rules of procedure,
 this rule demands a construction which would promote this
 cause.”
 Once judicial satisfaction is reached that the direction was not
 open to be made and it is accepted as a mistake of the court, it is
 not only appropriate but also the duty of the court to rectify the
 mistake by exercising inherent powers. Judicial opinion heavily
 leans in favour of this view that a mistake of the court can be
 corrected by the court itself without any fetters. This is on
 principle, as indicated in (Alexander) Rodger case (1869-71) LR 3
 PC 465. I am of the view that in the present situation, the court’s
 inherent powers can be exercised to remedy the mistake. Mahajan., J. speaking for a Four Judge Bench in Keshardeo
 Chamria v. Radha Kissen Chamria , 1953 SCR 136 at Page 153
 stated: 325. In Superintendent of Taxes v. Onkarmal Nathmal Trust 217, this

Court considered the conduct of the State Government in not

questioning the interim order at any stage in seeking variation or

modification of the order of injunction. It was held that the State could

not take advantage of its own wrong and lack of diligence and could not

contend it was impossible to issue notice within the purview of Section

7(2) of the new Act. The decision is distinguishable and turns on its own

facts. Though the act is possible to be performed but not as per the

public policy which frowns upon violation of the court's interim order.

217 (1976) 1 SCC 766 279 The decision cannot be applied, particularly in view of the provisions

contained in Section 24(2) , and on facts, it has no application. 326. Reliance was placed on Neeraj Kumar Sainy v. the State of U.P.218 .

There, this Court observed that no one should suffer any prejudice

because of the act of the court; the legal maxim cannot operate in a

vacuum. It has to get the sustenance from the facts. As the appellants

resigned to their fate and woke up to have control over the events

forgetting that the law does not assist the non-vigilant. One cannot

indulge in the luxury of lethargy, possibly nurturing the feeling that

forgetting is a virtue. If such is the conduct, it is not permissible to take

shelter under the maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit. There is no

dispute with the aforesaid principle. Party has to be vigilant about the

right, but the ratio cannot be applied. In the opinion, the ratio in the

decision cannot be applied for the purpose of interpretation of Section

24(2) . 327. There can be no doubt that when parties are before court, the final

decision has to prevail, and they succeed or fail based on the merits of

their relative cases. Neither can be permitted to take shelter under the

cover of court’s order to put the other party in a disadvantageous

position. If one has enjoyed under the court's cover, that period cannot

be included towards inaction of the authorities to take requisite steps 218 (2017) 14 SCC 136 280 under Section 24 . The State authorities would have acted but for the

court's order. In fact, the occasion for the petitioners to approach the court

in those cases, was that the State or acquiring bodies were taking their

properties. Ultimately case had to stand on its merit in the challenge to

the acquisition or compensation, and no right or advantage could

therefore be conferred (or accrue) under Section 24(2) in such

situations. 328. The argument of the landowners was that on the one hand, the

court should not discern a casus omissus and in effect, the absence of

provision to exclude the time during which an interim order operated,

means that Parliament intended such omission. The maxim ‘expressio

unius est exclusio alterious’ means that express mention of one or more

persons or things of a particular class may be regarded as by

implication excluding all others of that class. The maxim, however, does

not apply when the provisions of the legislation in question show that

the exclusion could not have been intended. In Colquhoun v. Brooks219,

the House of Lords opined that: 329. In a case before the United States Court of Customs and Patent

Appeals decided on 5th November, 1934, Yardley & Co. Ltd. V. United

States, the court considered the question of classification and

assessment with duty of certain merchandise consisting of empty glass

jars and lids, and whether these could be considered as ‘entireties’ that

would be dutiable under paragraph 33 of the Tariff Act of 1930. The

court in that case relied on the observations in Colquhoun v. Brooks

(supra) and held that the glass jars with their lids would be dutiable as

entireties, despite there not being an express legislative provision to that

effect. It was held that the rule of expressio unius est exclusio alterious

would not be applicable in the context of the legislative provision in the

Tariff Acts of 1909, 1913 and 1922, as the relevant provision therein (in

the 1930 Act) was merely declaratory in nature and not in derogation of

existing law. In Assistant Collector of Central Excise v. National Tobacco 282 Company of India Ltd.220 , this Court held that the rule of expressio unius

est exclusio alterious: 330. In Karnataka State v. Union of India221 , the Court observed that: To advance the balder and broader proposition that what is not
 specifically mentioned in the Constitution must be deemed to be
 deliberately excluded from its purview, so that nothing short of a
 Constitutional amendment could authorise legislation upon it, is
 really to invent a "Cams Omissus" so as to apply the rule that,
 where there is such a gap in the law, the Court cannot fill it. The
 rule, however, is equally clear that the Court cannot so interpret
 a statute as "to produce a casus omissus" where there is really
 none (see: The Mersey Docks and Harbour Board v. Penderson
 Brothers [1888] 13 A.C. 595). If our Constitution itself provides for
 legislation to fill what is sought to be construed as a lacuna, how
 can legislation seeking to do this be held to be void because it
 performs its intended function by an exercise of an expressly
 conferred legislative power? In declaring the purpose of the
 provisions so made and the authority for making it, Courts do not
 supply an omission or fill up a gap at all. It is Parliament which
 can do so and has done it. To hold that parliament is incompetent

220 (1972) 2 SCC 560
221 (1977) 4 SCC 608 283 to do this is to substitute an indefensible theory or a figment of
 one's imagination- that the Constitution stands in the way
 somehow-for that which only a clear Constitutional bar could
 achieve.”

In Mary Angel (supra) this Court observed as follows: In Re: Principle of Restitution: 222 (2003) 8 SCC 648 286 restitution is not the act of the court being wrongful or mistake or an

error committed by the court; the test is whether, on account of an act

of the party persuading the court to pass an order held at the end as

not sustainable, resulting in one party gaining an advantage which it

would not have otherwise earned, or the other party having suffered an

impoverishment, restitution has to be made. Litigation cannot be

permitted to be a productive industry. Litigation cannot be reduced to

gaming where there is an element of chance in every case. If the concept

of restitution is excluded from application to interim orders, then the

litigant would stand to gain by swallowing the benefits yielding out of

the interim order. This Court observed in South Eastern Coal Field (supra) thus: The principle of restitution has been statutorily recognized in Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Section 144 CPC
 speaks not only of a decree being varied, reversed, set aside or
 modified but also includes an order on a par with a decree. The
 scope of the provision is wide enough so as to include therein
 almost all the kinds of variation, reversal, setting aside or
 modification of a decree or order. The interim order passed by the
 court merges into a final decision. The validity of an interim order,
 passed in favor of a party, stands reversed in the event of a final
 decision going against the party successful at the interim stage.
 xxx 27. x x x

 This is also on the principle that a wrong order should not be
 perpetuated by keeping it alive and respecting it ( A. Arunagiri
 Nadar v. S.P. Rathinasami , (1971) 1 MLJ 220). In the exercise of
 such inherent power, the courts have applied the principles of
 restitution to myriad situations not strictly falling within the terms
 of Section 144. 28. That no one shall suffer by an act of the court is not a rule
 confined to an erroneous act of the court; the “act of the court”
 embraces within its sweep all such acts as to which the court
 may form an opinion in any legal proceedings that the court
 would not have so acted had it been correctly apprised of the
 facts and the law. x x x the concept of restitution is excluded from
 application to interim orders, then the litigant would stand to gain
 by swallowing the benefits yielding out of the interim order even
 though the battle has been lost at the end. This cannot be
 countenanced. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the
 successful party finally held entitled to a relief assessable in
 terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be
 compensated by award of interest at a suitable reasonable rate
 for the period for which the interim order of the court withholding
 the release of money had remained in operation.”
 (emphasis supplied) 333. In State of Gujarat & Ors. v. Essar Oil Ltd. & Anr223 , it was observed

that the principle of restitution is a remedy against unjust enrichment

or unjust benefit. The Court observed: 334. In A. Shanmugam v. Ariya Kshatriya Rajakula Vamsathu

Madalaya Nandhavana Paripalanai Sangam 224, it was stated that

restitutionary jurisdiction is inherent in every court, to neutralize the

advantage of litigation. A person on the right side of the law should not

be deprived, on account of the effects of litigation; the wrongful gain of

frivolous litigation has to be eliminated if the faith of people in the

judiciary has to be sustained. The Court observed: However, by sheer abuse of the process of law, they are
 continuing to ply their vehicles pending the hearing of the
 objections. This Court in Grindlays Bank Ltd. v. ITO held that the
 High Court, while exercising its power under Article 226 , the
 interest of justice requires that any undeserved or unfair
 advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court
 must be neutralized. It was further held that the institution of the
 litigation by it should not be permitted to confer an unfair
 advantage on the party responsible for it. In the light of that law

224 (2012) 6 SCC 430 289 and in view of the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution
this Court, while exercising its jurisdiction would do complete
justice and neutralize the unfair advantage gained by the 50
operators including the appellants in dragging the litigation to run
the stage carriages on the approved route or area or portion
thereof and forfeited their right to hearing of the objections filed
by them to the draft scheme dated 26-2-1959.' 172. This Court in Kavita Trehan v. Balsara Hygiene Products
Ltd. observed as under: (SCC p. 391, para 22)
 ‘22. The jurisdiction to make restitution is inherent in every
court and will be exercised whenever the justice of the case
demands. It will be exercised under inherent powers, where the
case did not strictly fall within the ambit of Section 144. Section
144 opens with the words: 413, para 6)
 ‘6. The case at hand shows that frivolous defenses and
frivolous litigation is a calculated venture involving no risks
situation. You have only to engage professionals to prolong the 290 litigation so as to deprive the rights of a person and enjoy the
fruits of illegalities. I consider that in such cases where the court
finds that using the courts as a tool, a litigant has perpetuated
illegalities or has perpetuated an illegal possession, the court
must impose costs on such litigants which should be equal to the
benefits derived by the litigant and harm and deprivation
suffered by the rightful person so as to check the frivolous
litigation and prevent the people from reaping a rich harvest of
illegal acts through the courts. One of the aims of every judicial
system has to be to discourage unjust enrichment using courts as
a tool. The costs imposed by the courts must in all cases should
be the real costs equal to deprivation suffered by the rightful
person.’
We approve the findings of the High Court of Delhi in the case
mentioned above. 175. The High Court also stated: (Padmawati case, DLT pp.
414-15, para 9)
 ‘9. Before parting with this case, we consider it necessary to
observe that one of the [main] reasons for overflowing of court
dockets is the frivolous litigation in which the courts are engaged
by the litigants and which is dragged on for as long as possible.
Even if these litigants ultimately lose the lis, they become the real
victors and have the last laugh. This class of people who
perpetuate illegal acts by obtaining stays and injunctions from
the courts must be made to pay the sufferer not only the entire
illegal gains made by them as costs to the person deprived of his
right but also must be burdened with exemplary costs. The faith
of people in judiciary can only be sustained if the persons on the
right side of the law do not feel that even if they keep fighting for
justice in the court and ultimately win, they would turn out to be
a fool since winning a case after 20 or 30 years would make the
wrongdoer as real gainer, who had reaped the benefits for all
those years. Thus, it becomes the duty of the courts to see that
such wrongdoers are discouraged at every step, and even if they
succeed in prolonging the litigation due to their money power,
ultimately, they must suffer the costs of all these years' long
litigation. Despite the settled legal positions, the obvious
wrongdoers, use one after another tier of judicial review
mechanism as a gamble, knowing fully well that dice is always
loaded in their favour since even if they lose, the time gained is
the real gain. This situation must be redeemed by the courts.' 176. Against this judgment of the Delhi High Court, Special
Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. 29197 of 2008 was preferred to this
Court. The Court passed the following order: (SCC p. 460, para 1)
 ‘1. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the
parties. We find no ground to interfere with the well-considered
judgment passed by the High Court. The special leave petition is,
accordingly, dismissed.’
* * * 183. In Marshall Sons & Co. (I) Ltd. v. Sahi Oretrans (P) Ltd. this Court in para 4 of the judgment observed as under: (SCC pp.
326-27) 291 ‘4. … It is true that proceedings are dragged on for a long time
 on one count or the other and, on occasion, become highly
 technical accompanied by unending prolixity at every stage,
 providing a legal trap to the unwary. Because of the delay,
 unscrupulous parties to the proceedings take undue advantage,
 and a person who is in wrongful possession draws delight in
 delay in disposal of the cases by taking undue advantage of
 procedural complications. It is also a known fact that after
 obtaining a decree for possession of immovable property, its
 execution takes a long time. In such a situation, for protecting the
 interest of the judgment-creditor, it is necessary to pass
 appropriate orders so that reasonable mesne profit which may be
 equivalent to the market rent is paid by a person who is holding
 over the property. In appropriate cases, the court may appoint a
 Receiver and direct the person who is holding over the property
 to act as an agent of the Receiver with a direction to deposit the
 royalty amount fixed by the Receiver or pass such other order
 which may meet the interest of justice. This may prevent further
 injury to the plaintiff in whose favour the decree is passed and to
 protect the property, including further alienation.' 184. In Ouseph Mathai v. M. Abdul Khadir , this Court
 reiterated the legal position that: (SCC p. 328, para 13)
 ‘13. … [the] stay granted by the court does not confer a right upon
 a party and it is granted always subject to the final result of the
 matter in the court and at the risks and costs of the party
 obtaining the stay. After the dismissal of the lis, the party
 concerned is relegated to the position which existed prior to the
 filing of the petition in the court which had granted the stay. Grant
 of stay does not automatically amount to extension of a statutory
 protection." There are other decisions as well, which iterate and apply the

same principle.225 335. A wrong-doer or in the present context, a litigant who takes his

chances, cannot be permitted to gain by delaying tactics. It is the duty

of the judicial system to discourage undue enrichment or drawing of

undue advantage, by using the court as a tool. In Kalabharati

Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania226, it was observed that

225 Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India, (2011) 8 SCC 161, Grindlays
Bank Ltd. v. CIT, (1980) 2 SCC 191, Ram Krishna Verma v. the State of U.P., (1992) 2 SCC 620. Also Marshall Sons & Co. (I) Ltd. v. Sahi Oretrans (P) Ltd. and Anr. , (1999) 2 SCC 325.
226 (2010) 9 SCC 437 292 courts should be careful in neutralizing the effect of consequential

orders passed pursuant to interim orders. Such directions are

necessary to check the rising trend among the litigants to secure reliefs

as an interim measure and avoid adjudication of the case on merits.

Thus, the restitutionary principle recognizes and gives shape to the idea

that advantages secured by a litigant, on account of orders of court, at

his behest, should not be perpetuated; this would encourage the prolific

or serial litigant, to approach courts time and again and defeat rights of

others- including undermining of public purposes underlying

acquisition proceedings. A different approach would mean that, for

instance, where two landowners (sought to be displaced from their lands

by the same notification) are awarded compensation, of whom one

allows the issue to attain finality- and moves on, the other obdurately

seeks to stall the public purpose underlying the acquisition, by filing

one or series of litigation, during the pendency of which interim orders

might inure and bind the parties, the latter would profit and be

rewarded, with the deemed lapse condition under Section 24 (2) . Such

a consequence, in the opinion of this Court, was never intended by

Parliament; furthermore, the restitutionary principle requires that the

advantage gained by the litigant should be suitably offset, in favour of

the other party. 336. In Krishnaswamy S. Pd. v. Union of India227 , it was observed that

an unintentional mistake of the Court, which may prejudice the cause

of any party, must and alone could be rectified. Thus, in our opinion,

the period for which the interim order has operated under Section 24 has to be excluded for counting the period of 5 years under Section 24(2) for the various reasons mentioned above. In Re Question no.6: Whether Section 24 revives stale and barred
claim 337. Before proceeding further, in our opinion, Section 24 contemplates pending proceedings and not the concluded ones in which

possession has been taken, and compensation has been paid or

deposited. Section 24 does not provide an arm or tool to question the

legality of proceedings, which have been undertaken under the Act of

1894 and stood concluded before five years or more. It is only in cases

where possession has not been taken, nor compensation is paid, that

there is a lapse. In case possession has been taken, and compensation

has not been deposited with respect to majority of landholdings, the

beneficial provision of the statute provides that all beneficiaries shall be

paid compensation as admissible under the Act of 2013. The

beneficiaries, i.e., landowners contemplated under the proviso to Section 24(2) , are the ones who were so recorded as beneficiaries as on

the date of issuance of notification under Section 4 of the Act of 1894.

227 (2006) 3 SCC 286 294 The provision is not meant to be invoked on the basis of void

transactions, and by the persons who have purchased on the basis of

power of attorney or otherwise, they cannot claim the benefit under Section 24 as is apparent from proviso to Section 24(2) and the decision

in Shiv Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors228 . 338. This Court is cognizant that Section 24 is used for submitting

various claims, by way of filing applications in the pending proceedings

either before the High Court or this Court. There are cases in which in

the first round of litigation where the challenge to acquisition

proceedings has failed, validity has been upheld, and possession has

been taken after passing of the award. It is contended that drawing of

panchnama was not the permissible mode to take possession, and

actual physical possession remains with such

landowners/purchasers/power of attorney holders as such benefit of Section 24 should be given to them notwithstanding the fact that they

have withdrawn the compensation also. 339. This Court is cognizant of cases where reference was sought for

enhancement of compensation, money was deposited in the treasury,

enhancement was made, and possession was taken. Yet, acquisitions

have been questioned, and claims are being made under Section 24 ,

that acquisition has lapsed, as the deposit (of compensation amount) in

228 2019 (13) SCALE 698 295 the treasury was not in accordance with the law, the amount should

have been deposited in reference court. Further, this Court also notes

that there have been cases in which after taking possession, when

development is complete, infrastructure has developed despite which

claims are being made under Section 24 , on the ground that either the

possession has not been taken in accordance with law or compensation

has been deposited in the treasury, thus questioning the acquisitions.

The decision in Mahavir and Ors. v. Union of India229 was an instance in

which a claim was made that acquisition was made more than a century

ago, and compensation has not been paid as such acquisition has

lapsed relating to the land of Raisina Hills in New Delhi. The importance

of Raisina Hills is well-known to everybody. The grossest misuse of Section 24 has been sought to be made, which is intended to confer

benefit. It was never intended to revive such claims and be used in the

manner in which it has been today, where large numbers of acquisitions

and development projects, such as construction of roads, hospitals,

townships, housing projects, etc., are sought to be undone, though

such acquisitions have been settled in several rounds of litigation. In

several matters, the validity has been questioned under the guise as if

the right has been conferred for the first time under the Act of 2013,

claiming that such acquisitions have lapsed. There are also cases in

which the claims for release of land under Section 48 of the Act of 1894

229 (2018) 3 SCC 588 296 have been dismissed. Now, claims are made that as land is open and

landowners/intermediaries/POA holders continue to be in physical

possession, thus, it should be returned to them, as the acquisition has

lapsed under Section 24(2) . Before us also arguments have been raised

to grant relief in all such cases by making purposive interpretation of

benevolent provisions. It was urged that this Court is bound to give

relief as Section 24 is retrospective in operation, and the authorities

have not cared to take possession for more than five years or more, and

they have not paid the compensation and deposited it in treasury which

cannot be said to be legal. It is declared that the acquisition has lapsed,

and the land is given back to them. In case any infrastructure is

existing, the State Government should acquire the land afresh after

following the process of Act of 2013. Earlier, injustice was done to

landowners, as observed in various decisions mentioned above. We

should not disturb the decisions of this Court and are bound to follow

the law laid down in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and the

principle of stare decisis. 340. By and large, concluded cases are being questioned by way of

invoking the provisions contained in Section 24 . In our considered

opinion, the legality of concluded cases cannot be questioned under the

guise of Section 24(2) as it does not envisage or confer any such right

to question the proceedings and the acquisitions have been concluded 297 long back, or in several rounds of litigation as mentioned above, rights

of the parties have been settled. 341. In this context, it is noteworthy that the Urban Land (Ceiling and

Regulation) Act, 1976 , was repealed in the year 1999; thereafter, claims

were raised. After repeal, it was claimed that actual physical possession

has not been taken by the State Government as such repeal has the

effect of effacing the proceedings of taking possession, which it was

alleged, was not in accordance with the law. In State of Assam v.

Bhaskar Jyoti Sarma and Ors230 , submission was raised by the State of

Assam that physical possession has been taken over by the competent

authority and it was submitted on behalf of landowner that procedure

prescribed under Section 10(5) of the Urban Land (Ceiling and

Regulation) Act, 1976, was not followed. It was before taking possession

under Section 10(6) of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act,

1976, the notification under Section 10(5) was necessary; thus, no

possession can be said to have been taken within the meaning of

Section 3 of the Repeal Act. The question this Court had to consider

was whether actual physical possession was taken over in that case by

the competent authority. The State of Assam submitted that though

possession was taken over in the year 1991, may be unilaterally and

without notice to the landowner. It was urged that mere non-

compliance with Section 10(5) would be insufficient to attract the

230 (2015) 5 SCC 321 298 provisions of Section 3 of the Repeal Act. This Court repelled the

submission of the landowner and held as under: If the owner did not do so, forcibly taking over of possession
 would acquire legitimacy by sheer lapse of time. In any such
 situation, the owner or the person in possession must be deemed
 to have waived his right under Section 10(5) of the Act. Any other
 view would, in our opinion, give a license to a litigant to make a
 grievance not because he has suffered any real prejudice that
 needs to be redressed but only because the fortuitous
 circumstance of a Repeal Act tempted him to raise the issue
 regarding his dispossession being in violation of the prescribed
 procedure. 17. Reliance was placed by the respondents upon the decision of
 this Court in Hari Ram case. That decision does not, in our view,
 lend much assistance to the respondents. We say so because this
 Court was in State of UP v. Hari Ram , (2013) 4 SCC 280
 considering whether the word "may" appearing in Section 10(5) gave to the competent authority the discretion to issue or not to
 issue a notice before taking physical possession of the land in 299 question under Section 10(6) . The question of whether the breach
 of Section 10(5) and possible dispossession without notice would
 vitiate the Act of dispossession itself or render it non-est in the
 eye of the law did not fall for consideration in that case . In our
 opinion, what Section 10(5) prescribes is an ordinary and logical
 course of action that ought to be followed before the authorities
 decided to use force to dispossess the occupant under Section
 10(6) . In the case at hand, if the appellant's version regarding
 dispossession of the erstwhile owner in December 1991 is
 correct, the fact that such dispossession was without a notice
 under Section 10(5) will be of no consequence and would not
 vitiate or obliterate the Act of taking possession for the purposes
 of Section 3 of the Repeal Act. That is because Bhabadeb Sarma,
 erstwhile owner, had not made any grievance based on breach
 of Section 10(5) at any stage during his lifetime, implying thereby
 that he had waived his right to do so.”

 This Court held that provisions of the Repeal Act could not be

extended in such a case where possession has been taken without

following the procedure, and the landowner cannot retain the land. This

Court also observed that once possession has been taken over in the

year 1991, any grievance as to non-compliance of Section 10(5) ought

to have been made within a reasonable time of such dispossession. By

sheer lapse of time, the possession would acquire legitimacy. Thus, the

owner or the person in possession must be deemed to have waived his

right under Section 10(5) of the Act. This Court also observed that only

because of the fortuitous circumstance of a Repeal Act, which confers

certain rights, the litigation had tempted the landowner to raise the

issue regarding his dispossession being in violation of the prescribed

procedure. It is clear from the aforesaid decision that such claims

cannot be entertained, and any such dispute raised belatedly was

repelled by this Court. 342. Section 24(2) is sought to be used as an umbrella so as to question

the concluded proceedings in which possession has been taken,

development has been made, and compensation has been deposited,

but may be due to refusal, it has not been collected. The challenge to

the acquisition proceedings cannot be made within the parameters of Section 24(2) once panchnama had been drawn of taking possession,

thereafter re-entry or retaining the possession is that of the trespasser.

The legality of the proceedings cannot be challenged belatedly, and the

right to challenge cannot be revived by virtue of the provisions of Section

24(2) . Section 24(2) only contemplates lethargy/inaction of the

authorities to act for five years or more. It is very easy to lay a claim that

physical possession was not taken, with respect to open land. Yet, once

vesting takes place, possession is presumed to be that of the owner, i.e.,

the State Government and land has been transferred to the

beneficiaries, Corporations, Authorities, etc., for developmental

purposes and third-party interests have intervened. Such challenges

cannot be entertained at all under the purview of Section 24(2) as it is

not what is remotely contemplated in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013. 343. In matters of land acquisition, this Court has frowned upon, and

cautioned courts about delays and held that delay is fatal in questioning

the land acquisition proceedings. In case possession has not been taken

in accordance with law and vesting is not in accordance with Section 301 16 , proceedings before courts are to be initiated within reasonable time,

not after the lapse of several decades. 344. In Hari Singh and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors231 , there was a

delay of two and a half years in questioning the proceedings. This Court

held that the writ petition was liable to be dismissed on the ground of

laches only. 345. In State of T.N. and Ors. v. L. Krishnan & Ors232 , this Court held

that petitioners could not raise their claim at a belated stage. Following

observations were made: 346. In Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay v. Industrial

Development Investment Co. Pvt. Ltd233 , this Court observed, with

respect to delay and laches that: 347. In Jasveer Singh and Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.235 , the

writ petition was filed in which High Court had directed the

redetermination of the compensation. In that case the matter was

remanded by this Court to consider the additional compensation under Section 23-(1A) . Thereafter a submission was raised in the High Court

under Section 24 . This Court held that the challenge could not have

been entertained. This Court observed thus: 46. As has been observed above, the petitioners’ main
 grievance is for enhancement of compensation, for which the
 petitioner has already filed First Appeal No. 880 of 1993 and First
 Appeal No. 401 of 1998 which appeals are being allowed by
 order of the date, we see no reason to entertain the writ petition. 47. Although various submissions on merits challenging the
 entire acquisition proceedings have been raised by the learned
 counsel for the petitioners, we have taken the view that the writ
 petition is highly barred by laches, we do not find it necessary to
 enter into the submissions raised by the learned counsel for the
 petitioners on merits." 348. In Swaika Properties Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. State of Rajasthan and

Ors236 , the writ petition was filed after taking possession and award has

236 (2008) 4 SCC 695 305 become final. The writ petition was dismissed on the ground of delay

and laches. In Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. State of Gujarat and Ors.237 , in

the absence of a challenge to the acquisition proceedings within a

reasonable time, the challenge was repelled. Delay was also fatal in Haryana State Handloom and Handicrafts Corporation Ltd. and Ors. v.

Jain School Society238 . The writ petition was filed after two years to

question the declaration under Section 6 and was dismissed on the

ground of delay in Urban Improvement Trust, Udaipur vs. Bheru Lal and

Ors239 . A Delay of 5 to 10 years was held to be fatal in questioning the

acquisition proceedings as held in Vishwas Nagar Evacuee Plot

Purchasers Association & Ors. v. Under Secretary, Delhi Admn . & Ors.240 349. There is a plethora of decisions where, owing to delay of 6 months

or more, this Court has repelled the challenge to the acquisition

proceedings. In our opinion, Section 24 does not revive the right to

challenge those proceedings which have been concluded. The legality of

those judgments and orders cannot be reopened or questioned under

the guise of the provisions of Section 24(2) . By reason of our reasoning

in respect of that provision (which we have held that under Section 24(2) that word “or” is to be read as 'and' or as 'nor,' even if one of the

requirements has been fulfilled, i.e., either possession taken or 237 (1998) 4 SCC 387
238 (2003) 12 SCC 538
239 (2002) 7 SCC 712
240 (1990) 2 SCC 268 306 compensation paid), there is no lapse unless both conditions are

fulfilled, i.e., compensation has not been paid nor has possession been

taken; the legality of the concluded proceedings cannot be questioned.

It is only in the case where steps have not been taken by the Authorities.

The lapse or higher compensation is provided under Section 24(2) and

its proviso under the Act of 2013. 350. In U.P. State Jal Nigam and Anr. v. Jaswant Singh and Anr241 , this

Court has observed that if a claimant is aware of the violation of his

rights and does not claim his remedies, such inaction or conduct

tantamounts a waiver of the right. In such cases, the lapse of time and

delay are most material and cannot be ignored by the Court. In Rabindranath Bose and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors242 , the

Constitution Bench of this Court has observed that the Court cannot go

into the stale demands after a lapse of several years. This Court

observed thus: 351. In Dharappa v. Bijapur Coop. Milk Producers Societies Union Ltd243 ,

this Court observed that if delay has resulted in material evidence

relevant to adjudication being lost or rendered unavailable, would be

fatal. It was held that the time limit of 6 months prescribed under Section 10(4A) of the I.D. Act, 1947 and should not be interpreted to

revive stale and dead claims, it would not be possible to defend such

claims due to lapse of time and due to material evidence having been

lost or rendered unavailable. The lapse of time results in losing the

remedy and the right as well. The delay would be fatal. It will be illogical

to hold that the amendment to the Act inserting Section 10(4A) should

be interpreted as reviving all stale and dead claims. This Court observed

thus: In other words, all those who have communicated orders of
 termination during a period of six months prior to 7-4-1988 were
 deemed to have been communicated such orders of termination
 as on 7-4-1988 for the purpose of seeking a remedy. Therefore,
 the words "within six months from the date of commencement of
 the Industrial Disputes (Karnataka Amendment) Act, 1987,
 whichever is later" only enables those who had been
 communicated order of termination within six months prior to 7-
 4-1988, to apply under Section 10 (4-A).” 352. In State of Karnataka v. Laxuman244 , this court held that stale

claims should not be entertained even if no time limit is fixed by the

statute. This court observed as follows: There is no period of limitation prescribed in subsection (3)(b) to
 make that application, but it should be done within the limitation
 prescribed by the Schedule to the Limitation Act . Since no article
 expressly prescribed the limitation to make such an application,
 the residuary article under Article 137 of the Schedule to the
 Limitation Act gets attracted. Thus, it could be seen that in the
 absence of any special period of limitation prescribed by clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 18 of the Act, the application
 should have been made within three years from the date of expiry
 of 90 days prescribed in Section 18(3)(b) , i.e., the date on which
 cause of action had accrued to the respondent claimant. Since the

244 (2005) 8 SCC 709 309 application had been admittedly made beyond three years, it
 was clearly barred by limitation. Since the High Court relied upon
 the case in Municipal Council, (1969) 1 SCC 873 which has stood
 overruled, the order of the High Court is unsustainable."
 This position is also supported by the reasoning in Kerala SEB v.
 T.P. Kunhaliumma , (1976) 4 SCC 634. It may be seen that under
 the Central Act sans the Karnataka amendment, there was no
 right to approach the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction
 to compel a reference, and no time-limit was also fixed for making
 such an approach. All that was required of a claimant was to
 make an application for reference within six weeks of the award
 or the notice of the award, as the case may be. But obviously, the
 State Legislature thought it necessary to provide a time-frame for
 the claimant to make his claim for enhanced compensation and
 for ensuring an expeditious disposal of the application for
 reference by the authority under the Act fixing a time within
 which he is to act and conferring an additional right on the
 claimant to approach the civil Court on satisfying the condition
 precedent of having made an application for reference within the
 time prescribed.” 353. We are of the opinion that courts cannot invalidate acquisitions,

which stood concluded. No claims in that regard can be entertained

and agitated as they have not been revived. There has to be legal

certainty where infrastructure has been created or has been developed

partially, and investments have been made, especially when land has

been acquired long back. It is the duty of the Court to preserve the legal

certainty, as observed in Vodafone International Holdings B.V. v. Union

of India and Ors245 . The landowners had urged that since the Act of

2013 creates new situations, which are beneficial to their interests, the

question of delay or laches does not arise. This Court is of the opinion

that the said contention is without merits. As held earlier, the doctrine

of laches would always preclude an indolent party, who chooses not to

approach the court, or having approached the court, allows an adverse

245 (2012) 6 SCC 613 310 decision to become final, to re-agitate the issue of acquisition of his

holding. Doing so, especially in cases, where the title has vested with

the State, and thereafter with subsequent interests, would be contrary

to public policy. In A.P. State Financial Corp. v. Garware Rolling Mill246 ,

this Court observed that equity is always known to defend the law from

crafty evasions and new subtleties invented to evade the law. There is

no dearth of talent left in longing for the undue advantage of the

wholesome provisions of Section 24(2) on the basis of wrong

interpretation. 354. In British Railway Board v. Pickin247, the following observations

were made: 355. We are unable to accept the submission on behalf of the

landowners that it is by operation of law the proceedings are deemed to

have lapsed and that this Court should give full effect to the provisions.

It was submitted that lapse of acquisition proceedings was not

contemplated under the Act of 1894, and there is departure made in Section 24 of the Act of 2013. Thus, Section 24 gives a fresh cause of

action to the landowners to approach the courts for a declaration that

the acquisition lapsed, if either compensation has not been paid or the

246 (1994) 2 SCC 647
247 (1974) AC 765 311 physical possession has not been taken. The decision of this Court in

the Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal and Ors. v. Dossibai N.B.

Jeejeebhoy248 was relied upon to contend that there cannot be res

judicata in the previous proceedings when the cause of action is

different; reliance is also placed on Canara Bank v. N.G. Subbaraya

Setty and Anr249 , where the decision of Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal

and Ors. (supra) was followed as to belated challenges. Reliance was

further placed on Anil Kumar Gupta v. the State of Bihar250 in which it

was held that vesting of land in the Government can be challenged on

the ground that possession had not been taken in accordance with the

prescribed procedure. The invocation of the urgency clause in Section

17 , can be questioned on the ground that there was no real urgency.

The notification issued under Section 4 and declaration under Section

6 can be challenged on the ground of non-compliance of Section 5-A(1).

Notice issued under Section 9 and the award passed under Section 11 can also be questioned on permissible grounds. Reliance has also been

placed on Ram Chand and Ors. v. Union of India251 to contend that

inaction and delay on the part of the acquiring authority would also give

rise to a cause of action in favour of the landowner. 356. The entire gamut of submissions of the landowners is based on

the misinterpretation of the provisions contained in Section 24 . It does

248 (1970) 1 SCC 613
249 (2018) 16 SCC 228
250 (2012) 12 SCC 443
251 (1994) 1 SCC 4 312 not intend to divest the State of possession (of the land), title to which

has been vested in the State. It only intends to give higher compensation

in case the obligation of depositing of compensation has not been

fulfilled with regard to the majority of holdings. A fresh cause of action

in Section 24 has been given if for five years or more possession has not

been taken nor compensation has been paid. In case possession has

been taken and compensation has not been deposited with respect to

the majority of landholdings, higher compensation to all incumbents

follows, as mentioned above. Section 24 does not confer a new cause of

action to challenge the acquisition proceedings or the methodology

adopted for the deposit of compensation in the treasury instead of

reference court , in that case , interest or higher compensation, as the

case may be, can follow. In our considered opinion, Section 24 is

applicable to pending proceedings, not to the concluded proceedings

and the legality of the concluded proceedings, cannot be questioned.

Such a challenge does not lie within the ambit of the deemed lapse

under Section 24 . The lapse under section 24(2) is due to inaction or

lethargy of authorities in taking requisite steps as provided therein. 357. We are also of the considered opinion that the decision in an

earlier round of litigation operates as res judicata where the challenge

to the legality of the proceedings had been negatived and the

proceedings of taking possession were upheld. Section 24 does not

intend to reopen proceedings which have been concluded. The decision 313 in Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal and Ors. (supra) is of no avail. Similar

is the decision in Anil Kumar Gupta v. State of Bihar (supra). No doubt

about it that proceedings (i.e., the original acquisition, or aspects

relating to it) can be questioned but within a reasonable time; yet once

the challenge has been made and failed or has not been made for a

reasonable time, Section 24 does not provide for reopening thereof. 358. So far as the proposition laid down in Ram Chand and Ors. v.

Union of India (supra) is concerned, inaction and delay on the part of

acquiring authorities have been taken care of under Section 24 . The

mischief rule (or Heydon's Mischief Rule) was pressed into service on

behalf of landowners relying upon the decision in Bengal Immunity Co

v. the State of Bihar (supra), it was submitted that Act of 1894 did not

provide for lapse in the case of inordinate delay on the part of acquiring

Authorities to complete the acquisition proceedings. Mischief has been

sought to be cured by the legislature by introducing the Act of 2013 by

making provisions in Section 24 of the lapse of proceedings. The

submission is untenable. The provisions made under section 24 have

provided a window of 5 years to complete the acquisition proceedings,

and if there is a delay of 5 years or more, there is a lapse and not

otherwise. The provision cannot be stretched any further, otherwise,

the entire infrastructure, which has come up, would have to go and only

the litigants would reap the undeserving fruits of frivolous litigation, 314 having lost in several rounds of litigation earlier, which can never be the

intendment of the law. 359. We are of the considered opinion that Section 24 cannot be used

to revive dead and stale claims and concluded cases. They cannot be

inquired into within the purview of Section 24 of the Act of 2013. The

provisions of Section 24 do not invalidate the judgments and orders of

the Court, where rights and claims have been lost and negatived. There

is no revival of the barred claims by operation of law. Thus, stale and

dead claims cannot be permitted to be canvassed on the pretext of

enactment of Section 24 . In exceptional cases, when in fact, the

payment has not been made, but possession has been taken, the

remedy lies elsewhere if the case is not covered by the proviso. It is the

Court to consider it independently not under section 24(2) of the Act of

2013. 360. It was submitted that Section 101 provides for return of unutilized

land under the Act of 2013. Section 101 provides that in case land is

not utilized for five years from the date of taking over the possession,

the same shall be returned to the original owner or owners or their legal

heirs, as the case may be, or to the Land Bank of the appropriate

Government by reversion in the manner as may be prescribed by the

appropriate Government. Section 101 reads as under: 361. Section 24 deals with lapse of acquisition. Section 101 deals with

the return of unutilized land. Section 101 cannot be said to be

applicable to an acquisition made under the Act of 1894. The provision

of lapse has to be considered on its own strength and not by virtue of

Section 101 though the spirit is to give back the land to the original

owner or owners or the legal heirs or to the Land Bank. Return of lands

is with respect to all lands acquired under the Act of 2013 as the

expression used in the opening part is "When any land, acquired under

this Act remains unutilized". Lapse, on the other hand, occurs when the

State does not take steps in terms of Section 24(2) . The provisions of

Section 101 cannot be applied to the acquisitions made under the Act

of 1894. Thus, no such sustenance can be drawn from the provisions

contained in Section 101 of the Act of 2013. Five years' logic has been

carried into effect for the purpose of lapse and not for the purpose of

returning the land remaining unutilized under Section 24(2) . 362. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation

& Anr. (supra) is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune

Municipal Corporation (supra) has been followed, are also overruled. The

decision in Shree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra) cannot be 316 said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions

following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority

v. Shailendra (Dead ) through L.Rs. and Ors. , (supra), the aspect with

respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether ‘or’ has to be read

as ‘nor’ or as ‘and’ was not placed for consideration. Therefore, that

decision too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present

judgment. 363. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we answer the questions as

under: Let the matters be placed before appropriate Bench for

consideration on merits. ..……………………….J.
 (Arun Mishra)

 ..……………………….J.
 (Indira Banerjee)

 ..……………………….J.
 (Vineet Saran)

 …..…………………….J.
 (M. R. Shah)

 …………………………J.
 (S. Ravindra Bhat)
New Delhi; March 06, 2020.