MANISHA BATRA, J (ORAL):- boarded on the motor bike of the complainant. After covering some distance,

the complainant was followed by one male and one female, who reached

there on a motor bike and by intercepting him and stopping him, they started

levelling allegation of committing rape by him. On that pretext, those two

persons and the female who had come with him, started blackmailing him

and raised demand of a sum of Rs. 27,00,000/-. They extorted a sum of Rs.

10,000/- which was lying in his pocket and he was also made to withdraw

cash amount of Rs. 1,90,000/- from his bank account to give the same to

them. They also started extending threats to the complainant on his phone

thereafter, also thereby asking him to part with more money. Compelled

with the threats so extended, the complainant reported the matter to the

police. 3. After registration of FIR, investigation proceedings were

initiated. A raiding party was prepared. The complainant gave currency

notes of Rs. 70,000/- and serial number of those notes were noted down by

the members of the raiding party. The complainant was asked to hand over

those notes to the persons who were trying to extort money from him. The

complainant reached at the informed place. The co-accused Kavita had

reached at the informed place to receive money from the complainant. She

was caught red handed at the spot with the tainted amount of money. She

was interrogated and suffered disclosure statement, on the basis of which,

the present petitioner and co-accused Rekha were nominated as accused. The

petitioner was arrested on 16.10.2024. He was also interrogated and suffered

disclosure statement admitting his involvement in the subject crime. An

amount of Rs. 5,000/- was recovered from him. Investigation has since been

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-02-2025 23:44:24 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:018233

CRM-M-62212-2024 3-

concluded and challan stands presented before the Court. 4. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner on the

grounds and it is argued by his counsel that he has been falsely implicated in

this case on the basis of disclosure statement of the co-accused. A false

recovery has been planted upon him and infact, no recovery has been

effected at his instance. He is in custody since 16.10.2024. Trial is likely to

take time. His further detention would not serve any useful purpose.

Therefore, it is urged that he deserves to be extended benefit of bail. 5. Status report has been filed by respondent-State. It is argued by

learned Assistant Advocate General, Haryana that the complicity of the

petitioner in the commission of the aforementioned offences stands prima

facie established. There was exchange of calls between the co-accused and

the petitioner on the day of occurrence as well as on the following dates. The

petitioner had also made calls to the co-accused Kavita who was

apprehended at the spot. As many as 56 calls have been exchanged between

the co-accused and the petitioner during the time of occurrence. Infact, he is

the kingpin of the entire racket. His presence is shown in the CCTV footage

of the camera installed in the vicinity from where the co-accused had been

apprehended. The allegations against him are serious in nature. There are

chances of his absconding or intimidating the witnesses, if extended benefit

of bail. Therefore, it is urged that the petition does not deserve to be allowed. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties at considerable

length and have gone through the record carefully. 7. The petitioner is alleged to have hatched a conspiracy with the

co-accused and in pursuance of the said conspiracy, he is alleged to have

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-02-2025 23:44:24 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:018233

CRM-M-62212-2024 4-

honey-trapped the complainant by making the co-accused induce the

complainant to meet with her and then by putting the victim in fear of an

accusation of having committed offence of rape with the co-accused Kavita

with an intent to extort money on the same pretext and is alleged to have

extorted money from him as well. The call details record of the petitioner

has been collected during investigation which shows that it was his mobile

which was used by the co-accused Kavita for sextortion of the complainant.

His presence at the place of occurrence has even been established from the

CCTV footage. The allegations against the petitioner are quite serious in

nature. His complicity in the commission of the subject offences is prima

facie established from the material collected during investigation. Trial has

commenced. There is nothing on record to show that there would be any

undue delay in conclusion of the same. Rather the same may be expedited.

Keeping in view the nature of the allegations as levelled against the

petitioner and the above discussed facts and circumstances, I am of the

considered opinion that the petition does not deserve to be allowed.

Accordingly the same is dismissed. 7. It is, however, clarified that the observations made hereinabove

shall not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 8. Since the main petition has been dismissed, pending

application, if any, is rendered infructuous. [MANISHA BATRA]
 JUDGE
6th February, 2025
Parveen Sharma 1. Whether speaking/ reasoned : Yes / No 2. Whether reportable : Yes / No

 4 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-02-2025 23:44:24 :::