The Delhi High Court ordered ‘Dynamic+’ injunctions against individuals infringing on Sadhguru’s personality rights. The complainant stated that rogue websites used modern technology and AI tools to morph and doctor Sadhguru’s voice, speeches, and interviews to create deepfakes for commercial purposes, including online financial scams.

Recently, Jagadish Vasudev also known as Sadhguru filed a petition in the Delhi High Court to protect his personality rights. Advocate Saikrishna Rajagopal, representing Sadhguru, said individuals used his name and images to sell products, including a pregnancy-related product named ‘Garbh Yatra. (Personality rights protect an individual’s identity from commercial exploitation.)

While passing an interim injunction order, the High Court observed that Sadhguru had acquired uniqueness in his personality through his voice, name, signature, image, likeness, vocal style, articulation, and distinctive attire and appearance. Justice Saurabh Banerjee remarked that such misuse will soon spread like a pandemic if not controlled:

“If not stopped, the chances that (wrong) messages will spread like wildfire with hardly any water left to douse it,” he observed.

The court order states that Dynamic+ injunctions protect individuals against rapidly evolving online infringement platforms. Divanshi Gupta, who specializes in Intellectual Property, explained that the Dynamic+ injunction orders passed against original websites can also be extended to mirror or proxy websites. These proxy websites are also referred to as “rogue websites.”

The order also means that the injunction can extend to content created in the future, not just existing content.

“The injunction ought to also not merely extend to content which is past content created prior to the filing of the suit, but also to content which may be generated on a day-to-day basis by the Plaintiffs,” said Justice Prathiba M. Singh in another judgment concerning a Dynamic+ injunction aimed at protecting copyrighted content.

Under the Dynamic+ injunction, the court ordered the blocking of rogue websites and directed YouTube to remove videos containing the alleged infringing content under:

These provisions relate to intermediary due diligence, punishment for cheating by personation using computers, and punishment for defamation.

The court also ordered the removal of a post by 3rdEyeNFT on X, which featured an AI-generated avatar of Sadhguru using his name, distinct attire, voice, and articulation style. As per the order, YouTube complied with the directive following a binding decision by the Grievance Appellate Committee on March 12, 2025.

Justice Banerjee described these rogue websites as hydra-headed. These platforms mask their original URLs behind proxy sites with minor alphanumeric changes, a practice known as domain hopping.

“Such ‘hydra-headed’ websites, under the garb of privacy, can mask their registration or contact details perfectly, making it virtually impossible to locate and contact their operators to, if necessary, demand cessation of infringing content,” the court noted in its order.

Source: Court’s Judgement

For example, the court referred to rogue sites like expressindia9510.xyz and newstoday0124.xyz , which carried fake news reports falsely claiming that Sadhguru had been arrested. These websites impersonated the visual style of the Times of India, as cited in the judgment.

The alleged news report included a fake interview with the Skavlan Show, a Norwegian-Swedish television talk show, to promote the Trendtastic Prism app, an “investment” or “trading platform.” The court observed that the original web domain name was intentionally kept inactive or inaccessible, redirecting users to sub-domains.

Sadhguru is not the first to seek court protection for his personality rights. Indian celebrities such as Anil Kapoor , Amitabh Bachchan , Jackie Shroff , Rajat Sharma , Arijit Singh , and Mohan Babu have previously filed similar cases in Indian courts. Each time, the court has ruled in favor of the complainants, upholding their personality rights.

While courts continue to protect copyrights and personality rights, the question of whether celebrity personality constitutes a cultural product remains unresolved. Akshat Agrawal, an expert in copyrights, whose writing was republished on MediaNama , argues that celebrity personality belongs to the public domain as a cultural product. This raises the question: what constitutes fair use in relation to personality rights?

This issue is especially relevant not only because of AI removing the entry barriers to create deepfake videos, but also because of the ongoing ANI versus YouTubers case , which is testing the boundaries of the fair use doctrine relating to copyrighted content.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event