What if you know who was calling you…would that stop spamming and scamming? The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India began a consultation process earlier this year to enforce real-name identification on mobile networks: your mobile screens would flash the name of the individual calling you, based on the KYC done with telecom operators.

Truecaller and some mobile operating systems already provide a functionality where you’re able to tell who is calling. Just because you know who is calling won’t prevent you from getting disturbed. Just because they know you can tell they’re calling won’t stop them from spamming you.

The rise of spam and scamming is a direct function of return on investment: what do you get for how much you spend. In 2010, after conversations with execs in the telecom industry, I had detailed the business model changes that led to an increase in spam in India . At one point in time, Nigerian scammers were spamming Indians using short codes bought from telecom operators. Spammers ran SIM farms using off-the-shelf SIM cards.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

The TRAI had responded by increasing the cost of text messaging, and secondly by limiting marketing to verified telemarketers, and penalising them for spamming . I once received a call from a telemarketer begging me to withdraw my complaint. I didn’t. A limit was also put on the number of SIMs an individual could buy.

It worked for a while (and hit spam-dependent businesses like Club Mahindra really hard then ) but eventually failed because it depended on:

Obviously, there was no willingness of telecom operators to adjudicate whether something was spam or not. The attempt to try and institute a blockchain-based mechanism to establish attribution hasn’t worked out either.

Calling is now virtually free, and scammers use different methods to do KYC ( despite facial recognition being done by the Department of Telecom on SIM buyers ) to scam people. Spammers will call you irrespective of whether you know them by name or not. The solution to this lies perhaps in the Internet: with the death of regular calls, like it happened with SMS, where better spam and phishing detection mechanisms exist. I almost never take regular calls.

In the meantime, TRAI will keep wasting public time and resources with blockchain and real-name identification.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event