SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need urgent advice on a 29 year old land deal
DATE: 2024-04-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1bz565k/need_urgent_advice_on_a_29_year_old_land_deal/

--- POST TEXT ---

So 29 years ago in 1995 my grandfather made a deal with this guy to sell clay from our land. As far as my aunts know it was done for a sum of 25k. Make note, we sold only clay and not land. Grandfather passed away 17 years ago and few years ago the land was divided to his kids. Now this guy comes back and is like I made a deal with your father and you should honour it. Parents decided to make a new deal. Had a meeting with this guy and he shows us the agreement. Which says the agreement was made in 1995, he paid 55k, half of it through bank (parents believe grandpa never had a bank account) and the deal was for 25 years. 

So the deal ended in 2020. But aage there’s a point written that if he wishes to he can extend the agreement by 5 years. Which means he has a year to get clay from our land. 

Now he wants us to allow him to get clay from our land. To which our parents straight up denied. And quoted a price for the new deal to which he said it’s too much. After we left he calls one of us and quotes his amount. I mean if you have a legal agreement why will you want to pay right? 

We believe the agreement is fake. Because he showed us only xerox. Even when asked for original which was right there he just brushed off the topic. And when we said grandpa never had an account and we’ll cross check with the bank. He fumbled. First he said no I know it’s his account. Then he kinda got nervous and was like you all were kids how you’ll know. My uncles and aunt were above 20-25 fyi

My question: How much credible is the point that he (purchaser) can extend the agreement by 5 years if he wants to? (I mean I have never read such clause before) No mention of seller if they want to extend or not

How can we stop him from getting clay from our land? Because he is now waving the papers on our face

Can we get details of a 29 year old cheque?