1. This writ petition by eBIZ.Com Private Limited (‗eBIZ'), directed against
 Union of India (Respondent No. 1), the Director General of Central Excise
 Intelligence ('DGCEI' - Respondent No. 2) and the Commissioner Audit-II
 of the Ghaziabad Commissionerate (Respondent No.3), seeks a declaration
 that the search conducted by the DGCEI on the business premises of the
 Petitioner eBIZ on 19th January, 2016 apprehending evasion of payment of W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 1 of 69 service tax, as well as the summons issued to eBIZ on 19th and 21st January
 2016 by the DGCEI are illegal and ultra vires the provisions of the Finance
 Act, 1994 (‗FA'). Respondent No. 3 was impleaded pursuant to the order
 dated 28th January, 2016 passed by this Court. Background facts 2. eBIZ is engaged in the business of developing and selling various
 online/offline educational software packages as well as providing holiday
 accommodation booking packages. eBIZ is registered with the Service Tax
 Department (ST Department) and has been paying service tax since the year
 2001. eBIZ describes the services rendered by it of booking of tour packages
 as that of a 'tour operator'. It has been filing its ST returns regularly. It is
 stated that in every half-yearly return filed by the Petitioner, exemption
 available to tour operators under Notification no. 26/2012-ST dated 20th June
 2012 has been claimed. eBIZ states that the said returns have been duly
 verified by the ST Department. 3. It is stated that on 12th January 2007, the ST Department conducted a
 search in the premises of eBIZ as a result of which eBIZ was compelled to
 deposit service tax of Rs. 25,55,000/- and interest thereon amounting to Rs.
 2,59,000/-. eBIZ further states that consequent upon the said search, the ST
 Department issued a show cause notice (‗SCN') dated 3rd July 2007.
 Pursuant thereto, an adjudication order was passed and eBIZ paid a penalty
 amount of Rs. 6,37,500 without prejudice to its right to go in appeal against
 the said order. By an order dated 29th August 2012, the Commissioner,
 Service Tax (Appeals) set aside the order passed by the adjudicating
 authority on the aforesaid SCN. Consequently, on 27th January 2014 eBIZ W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 2 of 69 applied for the refund of the amount paid in the sum of Rs. 34,51,500/-. It is
 stated that till date the said refund application has not been disposed of by
 the ST Department. 4. eBIZ states that for a second time, on 4th October 2012, a search was
 conducted by the ST Department in its premises. The statement of Mr.
 Pawan Malhan, Managing Director (MD), eBIZ was recorded and various
 documents were seized/resumed. However, no SCN was issued pursuant to
 the said search. A copy of the panchnama dated 4th October 2012 revealed
 that inter alia the documents seized included the file containing the ST-3
 returns from April 2009 to March 2012; copies of balance sheets from
 Assessment Year (AY) 2007-2008 to 2011-2012 and the trial balance for
 2012-2013; a file containing miscellaneous papers and two brochures.
 Summons were issued on the same date to eBIZ requiring it to produce the
 ST returns for 2007-2008 and 2008-2009; copy of agreement entered into
 with M/s. Balaji Digital Solutions (P) Limited; copy of agreements/contracts
 entered into with Hotels or Travel agents for tour packages and list of
 associates of Noida and Bulandshahr for FY 2011-2012. 5. eBIZ states that in 2014 the ST Department conducted an audit of the
 records of eBIZ for the years 2011-2012 and 2013-2014. eBIZ was asked to
 deposit Rs. 73,387/- together with interest and penalty. It is stated that on
 12th December 2014, eBIZ deposited Rs. 75,589/-. When discrepancies were
 pointed out by the ST Department for other years, they too were similarly
 rectified. Further, whenever there was a dispute, SCNs were issued which
 were then adjudicated. It is pointed out that in every half-yearly return filed
 by eBIZ, on the gross amount received by it, it was claiming exemption W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 3 of 69 under Notification No.26/2012-ST and the balance taxable amount as well as
 the computation of service tax thereon and the tax payments made duly
 reflected in the returns were verified by the officers of the ST Department.
 Copies of such ST returns are enclosed along with the petition. 6. On 13th October 2015, the ST Department proposed, by a letter of that
 date by the Superintendent (Group-4E), Audit-II of the Meerut
 Commissionerate, conducting a service tax audit of the accounts/records of
 eBIZ for the period up to March 2015. The said letter further asked eBIZ to
 provide copies of balance sheet, trial balance and annual financial report for
 financial years (‗FYs') 2010-2011 to 2014-2015 along with all the
 schedules, tax audit report (Form 3CD), TDS detail (Form 26AS), copies of
 ST-3 returns submitted for the years 2010-2011 to 2014-2015; value and
 payment of service tax (service wise/month wise) through cash and credit for
 the last five years and soft copies of the aforesaid records and documents.
 All the above information was submitted by eBIZ on 15th December 2015. It
 is pointed out that since they were audited every year, therefore, it was
 enclosing copy of balance sheet, P&L account along with all the schedules,
 tax reports, Form 3CD, TDS details, ST-3; and value and payment of service
 tax (service wise/month wise) only for the relevant year i.e., 2014-2015. The
 ST returns filed by eBIZ for all the aforementioned years have been
 enclosed with the petition. 7. It is pointed out that after conducting the verification audit of eBIZ in
 2015, a notice dated 6th January 2016 was issued for examining the
 admissibility of the exemption claimed under Notification No.26/2012-ST
 dated 20th June 2012. However, before the records could be submitted, a W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 4 of 69 search was conducted on 19th January 2016 by the DGCEI. 8. eBIZ states that throughout the abovementioned periods, it was availing
 abatement of 90% of the service tax payable by it as ‗tour operator' with the
 approval of the ST Department. It further states that all its records were
 verified and its service tax payments under the category ‗tour operator
 services' for booking of tour packages was never disputed. This was despite
 the audit and searches conducted on several occasions as referred to
 hereinbefore. Reference is made to an SCN dated 17th November 2014
 demanding service tax of Rs.34,00,425/- on the ground of reversal of
 amount of unclaimed commission. This demand was subsequently
 confirmed by the adjudicating authority on 21 st December 2015. eBIZ was
 filing appeal against the said order. Reference is also made to another SCN
 dated 2nd November 2015, demanding service tax of Rs.5,33,341/-, which is
 yet to be adjudicated. Search and arrest proceedings 9. In the above background, a search was conducted in the premises of eBIZ
 on 19th January 2016 by the officers of the DGCEI and various
 documents/records were seized with a panchnama being prepared on the
 same date. Five summons dated 19th January 2016 were also issued to
 various officers of eBIZ including Mr. Pawan Malhan, MD by the Senior
 Intelligence Officer (‗SIO'), DGCEI. It is stated that the SIO forced Mr.
 Pawan Malhan to record in his statement that he has evaded Rs.17 crores
 service tax. When Mr. Malhan refused to do so, he was arrested late in the
 evening at 7:40 pm on 20th January 2016 under Section 91 of the FA and
 sent to judicial custody. It was alleged that eBIZ had committed an offence
 under Section 89 (1) (ii) of the FA. The bail application of Mr. Malhan dated W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 5 of 69 21st January 2016 was rejected by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate
 (MM) by an order dated 25th January 2016. While Mr. Malhan was still in
 custody, two more summons were issued to two officers of eBIZ by the
 DGCEI on 21st January 2016. 10. It is pointed out that on the basis of Notification No.26/2012-ST and an
 earlier Notification No.01/2006-ST, exemption was being consistently
 claimed by eBIZ and not disputed by the ST Department. eBIZ contends that
 the action of the DGCEI in terming the said claim to be unlawful and
 estimating the ST liability at Rs.17 crores for the last five years was based
 only on the change of opinion and illegal search conducted in the premises
 of eBIZ. 11. It is on the above basis that the present writ petition was filed praying
 inter alia for a declaration that the action of the DGCEI was arbitrary,
 malicious and motivated and against the provisions of the FA and to declare
 the summons dated 19th and 21st January 2016 to be without authority of
 law. Proceedings before the Court 12. In this writ petition, the Court issued notice to the Respondents on 28 th
 January 2016. At that stage, Mr. Malhan was still in custody and his bail
 application was to be taken up on 29th January 2016 by the ASJ. Mr. Atul
 Singh, Deputy Director, DGCEI and Mr. Sunil Joshi, SI-6, DGCEI were
 present along with the records, which were perused by the Court. This
 included a note proposing search in the premises of eBIZ and a separate note
 proposing the arrest of Mr. Malhan. In para 8 of the order passed by the
 Court on 28th January 2016, it was recorded as under: 13. The Court accordingly issued an interim direction restraining the DGCEI
 from taking any further coercive action against eBIZ or its officials.
 Thereafter, in para 10 it was clarified as under: 14. The Court was informed that a notice dated 21 st/22nd January 2016 had
 been received from the ST Commissionerate, Ghaziabad asking for
 documents relating to FYs 2013-2014 and 2014-2015, which had already
 been seized by the DGCEI. In those circumstances, the Court directed the
 Service Tax Commissionerate, Ghaziabad, to be impleaded as Respondent
 No. 3 and further directed that the proceedings consequent upon such notice W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 7 of 69 shall remain stayed till the next date. 15. On the hearing on 2nd May 2016, the records produced by the DGCEI
 included a note dated 18th January 2016, proposing the arrest of Mr. Malhan.
 The first line of the said note read thus: ―An information has been received
 in this Directorate General that M/s. Ebiz.Com Private Ltd. B-18, Sector-63,
 Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301 are not discharging their service tax liability
 properly‖. When the Court enquired whether the DGCEI had verified such
 information with the Commissionerate of Service Tax in whose jurisdiction
 the eBIZ was functioning and had been assessed and paying service tax, Mr.
 Satish Aggarwala, learned counsel for the DGCEI stated, on instructions,
 that DGCEI never contacted the Commissionerate of Service Tax at any
 stage prior to the search, seizure and arrest of Mr. Malhan. He added that the
 DGCEI was not obliged to do so. When asked what was the ‗information'
 received, Mr. Aggarwala stated that this had been kept in another file in a
 sealed cover in the custody of Mr. Vivek Pandey, Joint Director, DGCEI. In
 the circumstances, the Court passed an order on 2nd May 2016, directing Mr.
 Pandey to remain present in the Court on the next date along with the file
 which carried the information on the basis of which the decision was taken
 to arrest Mr. Malhan. 16. In the meanwhile, since the counter affidavit had been filed by the
 DGCEI and the rejoinder thereto filed by the Petitioner, further permission
 at the request of Mr. Aggarwala was granted for the DGCEI to file a further
 short affidavit which would only deal with any new point made in the
 rejoinder which required such response. 17. On 18th May 2016, Mr. Vivek Pandey brought the abovementioned file W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 8 of 69 containing the information in a sealed cover. Although Mr. Aggarwala
 requested the Court to not open the sealed cover in the Court, since
 according to him even the mere sight of the papers in the file might give an
 indication to the counsel for the Petitioner the nature of the documents
 contained therein and might reveal the identity of the informer who gave the
 information, the Court on opening the packet found that there was absolutely
 nothing in the said documents, which were actually photocopies and a
 booklet, which could convey any such further information on mere sight as
 suggested by Mr. Aggarwala. 18. The Court nevertheless perused the papers itself. It was found that the
 information from the file was reduced to computer printed sheet containing
 information recording the functioning of eBIZ, which was undated. There
 was a thumb impression purportedly of the informant at the bottom of the
 page without disclosing the name of the informer. The packet also contained
 a declaration purportedly given by the informer to the DGCEI, which again
 only bore a thumb print without any name and without any date or place.
 The Court found nothing in the said information which was not already part
 of the record of the case. In any event, it was not information which was not
 already available with the ST Department. 19. Three separate counter affidavits have been filed. The counter affidavits
 filed by Respondent No.1/Union of India and Respondent No.2/DGCEI are
 word to word identical. A separate counter affidavit has been filed by the ST
 Department/Respondent No.3, which was impleaded by the order dated 28 th
 January 2016. Interestingly, Mr. Satish Aggarwala, learned counsel
 appearing for all three Respondents although stated that the stand of the ST W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 9 of 69 Department was different from that of the Union of India and the DGCEI. 20. The counter affidavit on behalf of the ST Department (Respondent No.3)
 has been filed by Mr. Udai Bhan Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Circle-4,
 Audit-II, Commissionerate, Central Excise & Service Tax, Ghaziabad. It
 confirms that eBIZ is registered with the Service Tax Commissionerate at
 Noida with the registration number AABCE3009PST001. It further confirms
 that eBIZ has obtained service tax registration in respect of following
 services: 21. It is stated that the Central Excise & Service, Audit-II Commissionerate,
 Ghaziabad came into existence with effect from 15th October 2014. It is
 pointed out that the Assessees are selected for audit from time to time as per
 audit norms specified in the Audit Manual. It is stated that in the year 2014-
 2015, for the first time, the Audit Commissionerate, Ghaziabad conducted an
 audit of eBIZ in terms of Rule 5A of the Service Tax Rules, 1994 (‗ST
 Rules'). It is stated that in response to the letter sent to eBIZ informing them
 about the scheduled audit and requesting them to produce the relevant
 documents, eBIZ submitted the balance sheet for FY 2013-2014, half-yearly
 service tax returns for the same year, registration certificate in Form ST-2,
 the statement of CENVAT credit etc. Thereafter, the audit team visited the
 business premises of eBIZ in the months of November and December and
 conducted the service tax audit. The list of financial records produced before
 the audit team has also been set out in the counter affidavit. 22. It is further stated that on examination of the sale invoices issued by
 eBIZ in respect of its tour operator services, it was seen that it had
 specifically mentioned the description of services as ‗eBIZ Holiday
 Accommodation Package' in its sale invoices and the same were issued in
 favour of clients desirous to avail a ‗Holiday accommodation package'. The
 invoices also contained a declaration by the client inter alia stating that the
 client has ―read and completely understood the terms and conditions‖ for
 availing the holiday accommodation package and had agreed to them. The
 declaration from the client further read: ―I have received eBIZ Special
 Educational package (Free) online immediately after registration.‖ 23. Respondent No.3 also acknowledged that 90% abatement from the gross
 value of ‗Tour Operator Service' is admissible under Notification
 No.26/2012-ST subject to the following conditions: 24. It is specifically stated that the audit team accepted the said documents,
 viz., sale invoices issued by eBIZ in respect of ‗Tour Operator Service' as
 valid and genuine documents and further that since the conditions for
 availing exemption under Notification No.26/2012-ST stood satisfied, the W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 11 of 69 audit had no reason or any basis to challenge the admissibility of exemption
 availed by eBIZ in respect of ‗Tour Operator Service'. The audit team also
 examined the brochure/catalogue of eBIZ which gave details of the various
 packages offered by eBIZ. The brochure also provided the details of 48
 hotels with domestic destinations and five international destinations for
 ‗holiday accommodation package'. The invoices showed the gross amount
 inclusive of all taxes charged towards price of such hotel holiday
 accommodation. The income from such service was booked under the head
 ‗Hotel Holiday accommodation' by eBIZ in their financial accounts and
 appropriate service tax based on such claims was paid and also shown in the
 statutory returns submitted to the Department. In that view of the matter,
 there was no reason for the audit team to challenge the admissibility of the
 exemption availed by the Petitioner under Notification No.26/2012-ST. 25. Para 11 of the counter affidavit of the ST Department mentions eight
 audit objections of which five were accepted by eBIZ and these five
 involved service tax to the tune of Rs. 15.68 lakh. This was deposited by
 eBIZ on the spot. The remaining objections were not accepted and an SCN
 dated 2nd November 2015 was issued for recovery of service tax of Rs.
 5,33,541/- and the said SCN is stated to be pending adjudication. 26. Respondent No. 3 further states that eBIZ was again selected for audit in
 2014-2015 and again asked by a letter dated 13th October 2015 issued by the
 audit team to submit the relevant documents/records. After some of the
 information/records were submitted on 15th December 2015, the audit of the
 Unit was initiated but the same could not be completed. This was followed
 by a written request on 6th January 2016 from the Audit Group-4E to eBIZ W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 12 of 69 asking it to produce vouchers in respect of all types of holiday packages and
 related bills raised by respective hotels for the accommodation arranged by
 eBIZ for its customers for the FYs 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. 27. In its counter-affidavit, Respondent No. 3 states that the documents
 required by notice dated 6th January 2016 were only to examine and verify
 the quantum of abatement availed by eBIZ and not for examining the issue
 of admissibility of exemption. Another reminder was sent on 22nd January
 2016. However, in view of the order dated 28th January 2016 of this Court,
 no further action was taken. 28. Respondent No. 3 points out that the functioning of the audit is different
 from the functioning of the DGCEI and that ―both work in their respective
 exclusive domain.‖ It is sought to be suggested that private records
 maintained by eBIZ are normally accepted as valid for the purposes of
 computation of tax liability and no further assessment of tax liability as
 declared by the Assessee is done by the ST Department. However, to ensure
 that service tax liability is discharged correctly and that there is no escaping
 of tax liability due to ―ignorance, bona fide mistake or otherwise, audit of
 the financial and statutory records maintained by the Assessee is carried out
 from time to time.‖ It is stated that the audit report issued after the audit
 ―certifies the correctness of tax assessment only so far as it is based on the
 records/documents as produced by the Assessee. Further, the authenticity of
 such records/documents, produced by the Assessee, is generally accepted
 and not challenged unless and until there is any apparent and obvious reason
 to disbelieve.‖ It is stated that for unearthing any such planned and
 deliberate evasion of tax as is done by the DGCEI, the audit is not equipped W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 13 of 69 and that such deliberate evasion can be detected only with some specific
 input/information against the Assessee and on carrying out further
 investigation including search of business premises and other related
 premises, seizure of records including incriminating records, recording of
 statements of related persons and further follow-up investigation. 29. It is, however, repeatedly stressed by the ST Department that when the
 audit was conducted ―there was no reason to suspect the authenticity of the
 records/documents produced by the party and the exemption under
 Notification No. 26/2012-ST was found to be admissible to the Petitioner, on
 the basis of audit of their records produced before the audit‖. The Audit
 Department has nothing to say about the SCN issued by the jurisdictional
 Service Tax Commissionerate, which has been referred to in para 9 of the
 writ petition and that it pertained to some other issue and the same is not
 related to the issue of admissibility of exemption under Notification
 No.26/2012-ST. It is pointed out that under Section 70(1) of the FA, the
 Assessee has to declare the true and correct nature of the services provided
 and has to pay service tax due thereon. It is stated that fresh proceedings for
 recovery of service tax for the same period are warranted, if the issues of
 classification of services declared by the Assessee are found to be false or
 different on the basis of facts not disclosed earlier in any of the statutory
 record by the party. 30. As earlier mentioned, two separate identically worded counter affidavits
 have been filed by Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 respectively. The same officer,
 viz., Mr. Samanjasa Das, Additional Director General (‗ADG'), DGCEI has W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 14 of 69 filed both these affidavits. 31. The DGCEI states that the competent authority had reasons to believe on
 the basis of the material available before him, that certain incriminating
 documents showing large scale service tax evasion had been secreted away
 in the premises of eBIZ. Therefore, a search was conducted in the premises
 of eBIZ under Section 82 of the FA. Similarly, the arrest of Mr. Malhan was
 also stated to be just and proper and in terms of Section 91 of FA. 32. It is sought to be suggested that although this Court by its order dated
 28th January 2016 required eBIZ to cooperate with the DGCEI, the MD of
 eBIZ had still not provided data of individual associates regarding the
 amount received from individual associates and date of receipt etc. till date.
 A reference is made to the statement made by Mr. Sulabh Jain, Accountant
 of eBIZ on 14th March 2016, to the effect that in 'Tally', the data of
 individual associates was not maintained and that it was not accessible. It
 was stated by Mr. Jain that the revenue data was provided by the technical
 team headed by Mr. Dhirendra. It is then stated that on 6 th April 2016, Mr.
 Dhirendra was summoned and in his statement he stated that he was not
 dealing with the records. On 9th April 2016, the MD submitted a letter that
 the entire data with respect to details of business associates was available in
 the CPU, which had been taken away during the search and seizure
 operation. It was then acknowledged vide letter dated 18th April 2016 by the
 son of the MD and advocate for eBIZ, Mr. Rajveer Singh, stating that they
 had brought 123 cartons of documents relating to the associates of eBIZ in a
 truck. It was then stated that DGCEI did not call for the said documents and
 only certain details of individual associates had been called for. It was W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 15 of 69 decided to verify the documents on sample basis. It was stated that two of
 the 123 cartons were opened and nothing relevant was found. This, it is
 stated, is a glaring instance of non-cooperation. Rejoinder Affidavit by the Petitioner 33. A rejoinder affidavit dated 30th April 2016 was filed on behalf of eBIZ
 by Ms. Rajinder Kaur, Administrative Officer, in response to the counter
 affidavits of the Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. 34. It must be pointed out at this stage that a letter dated 8 th April 2016 was
 written by Dr. Puneeta Bedi, Deputy Director, DGCEI, to Mr. Pawan
 Malhan, MD of the Petitioner to submit the details requested therein. The
 abovesaid letter dated 8th April 2016 has been placed on record and it is
 noted that the following details had been requested by the DGCEI: 35. It is pointed out in the rejoinder affidavit that the MD of eBIZ and its
 officers had appeared whenever they were summoned by the DGCEI and
 also submitted ‗original documents' as sought by the DGCEI in respect of
 ―all the associates who availed education packages, holiday accommodation W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 16 of 69 packages -I & II from Oct 2011 till date‖ on 18th April 2016 through its
 counsel, Mr. Rajveer Singh. However it is stated that the DGCEI officials
 had refused to take delivery of the said documents and also seized the
 mobile phone of Mr. Singh. Affidavit of the counsel of the Petitioner 36. An affidavit dated 16th May 2016 has been filed by Mr. Rajveer Singh,
 counsel for eBIZ. Consequent to the letter dated 8th April 2016 of the
 DGCEI requiring the MD of eBIZ to submit documents requested therein,
 Mr. Rajveer Singh along with the Mr. Hitik Malhan, visited the office of the
 DGCEI on 18th April 2016 carrying the documents in original in 123 cartons
 loaded in a truck. It is stated that at the reception of the DGCEI office, the
 deponent's as well as Mr. Malhan's mobile phones were seized by the
 officer present at the reception citing rules and regulations that had to be
 followed by anyone entering the office of the DGCEI. It is stated that one
 Mr. Ravindra Tyagi, Intelligence Officer was directed to take possession of
 the documents. However, Mr. Tyagi on reaching the truck was stated to have
 used abusive language and made the advocate and the client wait till 4:30
 p.m. and thereafter stated that they would not be taking possession of the
 documents since they were irrelevant. It is stated that some wrong
 statements were recorded in the panchnama and therefore the advocate and
 his client requested for a change to be made. It is stated that Mr. Tyagi was
 again abusive at that stage. With the intervention of Mr. Shivendu Pandey,
 SIO, the officer, Mr. Tyagi, was made to apologise and thereafter the
 panchnama was signed after necessary modification. 37. Thus, it is stated that since the information sought was extensive it was W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 17 of 69 decided to take all the original documents to the DGCEI and yet this was
 refused by the DGCEI. Reply by DGCEI to the Rejoinder Affidavit 38. In response to the rejoinder affidavit filed by eBIZ, a reply has been filed
 by Dr. Puneeta Bedi alleging non-cooperation by eBIZ. In the said affidavit
 dated 12th May 2016, Dr. Bedi states that eBIZ was asked only to submit a
 list of associates (name, address & code number) who availed Education
 Package and Holiday Accommodation Package-I & II from October, 2011
 till date and that instead of submitting the said list, eBIZ sent a truck full of
 123 cartons to the office of the DGCEI. 39. The decision to arrest the MD of the Petitioner is sought to be justified
 by the DGCEI by referring to Section 89 (1) (d) read with Section 90 (1) and
 91 (1) of the FA. It is further asserted that in order to satisfy that there has
 been a commission of the offence of collecting an amount of service tax and
 the failure to deposit the amount so collected to the credit of the Central
 Government beyond six months from the date on which such payment is due
 in terms of Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA, there is no requirement for issuance
 of SCN as contemplated under Section 73 (1) and 73A (3) of the FA. Submissions of counsel for the Petitioner 40. Mr. J.K. Mittal, learned counsel for the Petitioner, made the following
 submissions: opening the assessment of FYs for which there was no power in the FA.
 Further, it is sought to arm the officers of the DGCEI with powers of
 ‗review' and ‗reassessment' which are not available to them under the FA. (iv) For authorizing a search under Section 82 of the FA, the competent
 authority should have ‗reason to believe' and not ‗reason to suspect'. There
 had to be some material for the formation of such belief. Reliance is placed
 on the decision of Bishnu Krishna Shrestha v. Union of India 1987 (27)
 ELT 369 (Cal.). The expression ‗reason to believe' postulates application of
 mind and assigning of reasons. Unless ‗reasons to believe' were duly
 recorded prior to the search and seizure, they were liable to be declared
 illegal. Reliance is placed on the decision in Mapsa Tapes Pvt. Ltd. v. UOI 2006 (201) ELT 7 (P&H). (v) The actions of the DGCEI had caused serious invasion of privacy, rights
 and freedom of the MD of eBIZ and eBIZ itself and harmed their reputation.
 The actions of the DGCEI and other Respondents were violative of Articles
 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. (vi) This was a proven case of illegal search, seizure and arrest. The facts
 concerning the two earlier searches were not found mentioned in the note
 prepared for proceeding with the arrest of Mr. Malhan. If only the DGCEI
 had called for information from the ST Department, it would have been
 informed that on 12th January 2007 a search had taken place as a result of
 which a SCN dated 13th July 2007 had been issued. The adjudication order
 as a result of the said SCN was set aside by the Commissioner (Appeals) by
 an order dated 29th August 2012. This entailed a refund to eBIZ of Rs.
 25,55,000 as service tax, Rs.2,59,000 as interest, Rs.6,37,000 as penalty
 totalling Rs. 34,51,500. Despite an application dated 27 th January 2014, the
 said amount, which had been deposited under protest by eBIZ, had not been
 refunded to it. (vii) The arrest memo also did not mention that a second search had taken
 place on 4th October 2012 of the premises of eBIZ by the Anti-Evasion Wing
 of the Noida Commissionerate. However, till date no demand has been
 raised as a result of the said search. (viii) The ST Department has in its counter affidavit admitted to the fact that
 for the past 10 years it had been regularly conducting audit of eBIZ's books
 of accounts and records while deputing its officers in exercise of the power
 under Rule 5A of the Service Tax Rules, 1994. While there was no evidence
 regarding any tax evasion, the discrepancies pointed out were immediately W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 20 of 69 rectified. Throughout, eBIZ's claim for entitlement of exemption under
 Notification 29/2006-ST was not disputed. In other words, even during the
 course of the audit, the ST Department acknowledged that eBIZ was
 availing of 90% abatement under the said notification. (ix) In every half-yearly service tax return, copies of which have been placed
 on record, eBIZ disclosed the full receipt of the charges collected for hotel
 bookings as a ‗tour operator' with full computation by claiming exemption
 under Notification No. 26/2012-ST. The records from 2009 till 2015 during
 which such returns had been filed have been duly verified by the ST
 Department and no discrepancy had been pointed out. The SCN issued on
 17th November 2014 demanding service tax of Rs.34,00,425 and the SCN
 dated 2nd November 2015 demanding service tax of Rs.5,33,341 covered the
 periods 2009-10 and 2013-14. The disputed tax amount was around Rs. 40
 lakhs whereas the refund claimed by Petitioner was around Rs. 35 lakhs.
 There was no occasion whatsoever and it was impermissible in law for the
 DGCEI to seek to invoke Section 89 read with Sections 90 and 91 and arrest
 of Mr. Malhan. (x) There was no provision in the FA for reopening of completed
 assessments of earlier years. The DGCEI was wrong to allege that eBIZ had
 not cooperated with the ST Department or the DGCEI on the numerous
 queries raised and during the course of repeated audits. Referring to the
 decision in Mahesh Chandra v. Regional Manager, U.P. Financial
 Corporation ( 1993) 2 SCC 279 and Uniworth Textiles Ltd. v CCE, Raipur ,
 2013 (288) ELT 161 (SC), it was submitted that the mere non-payment of
 dues would not amount to suppression of material facts. Reliance was also W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 21 of 69 placed on the decisions in Parashuram Pottery Works Co. Ltd. v. Income- tax Officer (1977) 1 SCC 408 and Calcutta Discount Company Ltd. v ITO AIR 1961 SC 372 which held that as far as the Assessee is concerned, his
 duty was limited to providing the necessary documents whereas the analysis
 of such documents was a responsibility of the Authority. (xi) In support of the submission that DGCEI was liable in law for its
 arbitrary actions, reliance was placed on the decision in Dabur India Ltd. v.
 State of Uttar Pradesh ( 1990) 4 SCC 113, ICICI Bank Ltd. v. Union of
 India 2015 (38) STR 907 (Bom) and Technomaint Contractors Ltd. v.
 Union of India 2014 (36) STR 488 (Guj). Reliance was placed on the
 decision in N. R. Management Consultants P. Ltd. v. Commissioner of
 Service Tax, Delhi 2014 (33) STR 371 (Del) to urge that repeated issuance
 of SCNs when the earlier SCNs were pending adjudication was arbitrary. (xii) It is emphasised that without there being any provision for reopening of
 assessments, the resort to the coercive steps of search, seizure and arrest
 without even an SCN was illegal. Submissions of counsel for the Respondents 41. Mr. Satish Aggarwala, learned counsel of the Respondents made the
 following submissions: Commr. of CCE & ST, Coimbatore 2013 (31) S.T.R. 385 (Mad.) to urge
 that it is not for the Court to go into the sufficiency or relevance of materials
 before the Authority concerned to order search and seizure. (iii) The documents seized during search showed that eBIZ was not
 rendering any services as a ‗tour operator'. It was essentially engaged in the
 business of providing educational packages camouflaging them as ‗tour
 operators services'. Therefore, eBIZ had committed fraud by claiming
 exemption under Notification No. 26/2012. Inasmuch as eBIZ had not
 arranged for a tour which was an essential ingredient of the service provided
 by a ‗tour operator' in terms of Section 65 (105) (n) of the FA and which
 was admitted by the officials of the eBIZ during the course of investigation,
 the Competent Authority was justified in authorising the arrest of Mr.
 Malhan. It is urged that the legality of the arrest of Mr. Malhan is not the
 subject matter of the present petition. Nevertheless, the arrest had been
 approved by the Competent Authority under Section 91 of the FA and which W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 23 of 69 in turn had duly authorised the SIO to effect the arrest. The procedure
 established by law had been duly followed while carrying out the arrest. (iv) The details disclosed during the course of search reflected that against
 the total income of Rs. 170 crores from December 2011 till 19th January
 2016, the expenses on account of hotel bookings was only 0.09%. The
 contents of the educational packages were provided free under the garb of
 ‗holiday accommodation packages' while the price of Rs. 10,880 (inclusive
 of all taxes) was same for both the education packages as well as the holiday
 accommodation packages. This was, therefore, a clear fraud committed by
 eBIZ to evade paying service tax at the full applicable rate. (v) Rule 5A of the ST Rules provided limited access to the declared records
 whereas Section 82 of the FA gave the power to search and seize documents
 or books or things secreted in the premises which would be useful for or
 relevant to any proceedings. Thus the scope of the audit by the Audit Team
 of the ST Department was different from the search that could be undertaken
 by the DGCEI. The audit party in the present case accepted the documents
 presented before it by an Assessee as genuine without information of any
 fraud committed by such Assessee. The regular/routine audit cannot be
 construed as immunity against any other action which can be taken on the
 basis of ―some specific information/inputs regarding evasion of tax.‖ (vi) Under Section 73 of FA, the ST Department could make enquiries
 covering a period of past five years in the event the Assessee had not paid
 service tax by reason of 'fraud' or 'collusion' or 'wilful misstatement' or
 'suppression of facts' or 'contravention of any of the provisions of this
 Chapter or of the rules made thereunder with an intent to evade payment of W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 24 of 69 service tax'. (vii) While the DGCEI did not contact the Jurisdictional Service Tax or
 Audit Commissionerate at any stage prior to the search, seizure and arrest of
 Mr. Malhan since "any such action would lead to the threat to the life of the
 informer", however, after the case was booked against eBIZ, both the
 Jurisdictional Service Tax and Audit Commissionerate were contacted to
 provide various details. (viii) Referring to the note sheets on file, it was submitted that the impugned
 action of the DGCEI was justified. As regards the past searches undertaken
 by the officers of Anti-Evasion, Jurisdictional Commissionerate, Noida, it
 was submitted that the search conducted in 2007 was on the issue of non-
 payment of service tax on handling charges for preparation of cheques,
 courier charges and other support services related to payment of commission
 issued by eBIZ to its associates. As far as the 2012 search was concerned, it
 was on the issue that eBIZ was receiving services from foreign service
 providers and not discharging its service tax liability on the amount paid to
 such service provider under the reverse charge mechanism. (ix) Reliance is placed on the decisions in State of Gujarat v. Shri Mohanlal
 Jitamalji Porwal 1987 ( 29) ELT 483 (SC), Union of India v. Shyamsunder 1994 (74) ELT 197 (SC) and Chitra Construction Co. v. Addl. Commr. of
 CCE & ST Coimbatore (supra) to urge that it was not open to the Court to
 examine the sufficiency or relevancy of the materials which were available
 with the Competent Authority for forming a reasonable belief that there was
 evasion of service tax by eBIZ. Reliance is placed on the decision in Pooran
 Mal v. Director of Inspection (Investigation) of Income-Tax AIR 1974 SC W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 25 of 69 348 to urge that material obtained even as a result of illegal search or seizure
 can be taken into consideration for proceeding against an Assessee. (x) The two business associates of eBIZ, Mr. Pawan Mishra and Mr.
 Shubham Chaudhary and the two Accountants, Mr. Sulabh Jain and Mr.
 Narender Kumar gave statements that substantiated the case of DGCEI
 against eBIZ. The payments towards holiday bookings after 7th March 2014
 were made to ‗Clear Trip' through the credit card of Mr. Malhan. Since it
 was a classic case of fraud committed by the Petitioner wherein they had
 wilfully mis-declared their services of online education as ‗tour operator' in
 their service tax returns with an intent to evade the payment of service tax at
 the full applicable rate, the action of DGCEI was legal and tenable. Reliance
 is placed on the decision in Nizam Sugar Factory v. CCE 2006 (197) ELT
 465 (SC) to urge that a second or third SCN in the same or similar facts is
 not impermissible as long as DGCEI was able to show that a fraud had been
 committed by eBIZ. Since investigation was still in progress, no SCN was
 issued in the matter. (xi) The sum of Rs. 17 crores was voluntarily paid by Mr. Malhan and not
 under coercion or threat as alleged. Mr. Aggarwala sought to distinguish the
 decisions in Mahesh Chandra v. Regional Manager , U.P. Financial
 Corporation (supra) Uniworth Textiles Ltd. v CCE, Raipur ( supra) and
 Parashuram Pottery Works Co. Ltd. v Income-tax Officer and Calcutta
 Discount Company v ITO (supra). Analysis of the relevant provisions 42. The Court proposes to begin the analysis of the above submissions by
 first referring to the relevant statutory provisions. For the purposes of the W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 26 of 69 present case, a reference is required to be made to the relevant provisions of
 the FA. Section 65 (105) (n) of the FA defines 'taxable service' as 'any
 service provided or to be provided to any person by a ‗tour operator' in
 relation to a tour'. Section 65B (44) defines 'service' as any activity carried
 out by a person for another for consideration, and includes a declared
 service. It then proceeds to set out the negative list of those activities that are
 not covered by the definition. Section 65 (115) defines ' tour operator' thus: 43. Sections 72 and 73 of the FA read as under: the Central Excise Officer may require the person to produce such
 accounts, documents or other evidence as he may deem necessary and
 after taking into account all the relevant material which is available on
 which he has gathered, shall by an order in writing, after giving the
 person an opportunity of being heard, make the assessment of the
 value of taxable service to the best of his judgment and determine the
 sum payable by the Assessee or refundable to the Assessee on the
 basis of such assessment. 73. Recovery of service tax not levied or paid or short-levied or
 short-paid or erroneously refunded

 (1) Where any service tax has not been levied or paid or has been
 short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, the Central Excise
 Officer may, within eighteen months from the relevant date, serve
 notice on the person chargeable with the service tax which has not
 been levied or paid or which has been short-levied or short-paid or the
 person to whom such tax refund has erroneously been made, requiring
 him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the
 notice: Explanation: Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order of
 a court, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the
 aforesaid period of eighteen months or five years, as the case may be. (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-Section (1) (except
 the period of eighteen months of serving the notice for recovery of
 service tax), the Central Excise Officer may serve, subsequent to any
 notice or notices served under that sub-section, a statement containing
 the details of service tax has not levied or paid or short levied or short
 paid or erroneously refunded for the subsequent period, on the person
 chargeable to service tax, then, service of such statement shall be W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 28 of 69 deemed to be service of notice on such person, subject to the
 condition that the grounds relied upon the subsequent period are same
 as are mentioned in the earlier notices. (1B). Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in a case
 where the amount of service tax payable has been self-assessed in the
 return furnished under sub-section (1) of Section 70 , but not paid
 either in full or in part, the same shall be recovered along with interest
 thereon in any of the modes specified in Section 87 , without service of
 notice under sub-Section (1). (2) The Central Excise Officer shall, after considering the
 representation, if any, made by the person on whom notice is served
 under sub-section (1), determine the amount of service tax due from,
 or erroneously refunded to, such person (not being in excess of the
 amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay
 the amount so determined. (2A) Where any appellate authority or Tribunal or court concludes
 that the notice issued under the proviso to sub-section (1) is not
 sustainable for the reason that the charge of - (a) fraud; or (b) collusion; or (c) wilful misstatement; or (d) suppression of facts; or (e) contravention of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the
 rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of service
 tax,
 has not been established against the person chargeable with the
 service tax, to whom the notice was issued, the Central Excise Officer
 shall determine the service tax payable by such person for the period
 of eighteen months, as if the notice was issued for the offences for
 which limitation of eighteen months applies under sub-Section (1). (3) Where any service tax has not been levied or paid or has been
 short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, the person
 chargeable with the service tax, or the person to whom such tax
 refund has erroneously been made, may pay the amount of such
 service tax, chargeable or erroneously refunded, on the basis of his
 own ascertainment thereof, or on the basis of tax ascertained by a W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 29 of 69 Central Excise Officer before service of notice on him under sub-
 section (1) in respect of such service tax, and inform the Central
 Excise Officer of such payment in writing, who, on receipt of such
 information shall not serve any notice under sub-section (1) in respect
 of the amount so paid. Provided that the Central Excise Officer may determine the amount of
 short payment of service tax or erroneously refunded service tax, if
 any, which in his opinion has not been paid by such person and, then,
 the Central Excise Officer shall proceed to recover such amount in the
 manner specified in this section, and the period of ―eighteen months‖
 referred to in sub-section (1) shall be counted from the date of receipt
 of such information of payment. Explanation 1: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
 the interest under Section 75 shall be payable on the amount paid by
 the person under this sub-section and also on the amount of short
 payment of service tax or erroneously refunded service tax, if any, as
 may be determined by the Central Excise Officer, but for this sub-
 section. Explanation 2: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no
 penalty under any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made there
 under shall be imposed in respect of payment of service-tax under this
 sub-section and interest thereon. (4) Nothing contained in sub-section (3) shall apply to a case where
 any service tax has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or
 short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of-- (a) fraud; or (b) collusion; or (c) wilful mis-statement; or (d) suppression of facts; or (e) contravention of any of the provisions of this Chapter or of
 the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of
 service tax. (4B) The Central Excise Officer shall determine the amount of service
 tax due under sub-Section (2) - (a) within six months from the date of notice where it is
 possible to do so, in respect of cases whose limitation is
 specified as eighteen months in sub-section (1); (b) within one year from the date of notice, where it is possible
 to do so, in respect of cases falling under the proviso to sub-
 section (1) or the proviso to sub-section (4A); (5) The provisions of sub-section (3) shall not apply to any case where
 the service tax had become payable or ought to have been paid before
 the 14th day of May, 2003. (6) For the purposes of this section, ―relevant date‖ means, -- (i) in the case of taxable service in respect of which service tax
 has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or short-
 paid -- (a) where under the rules made under this Chapter, a
 periodical return, showing particulars of service tax paid
 during the period to which the said return relates, is to be
 filed by an assessee, the date on which such return is so
 filed; (b) where no periodical return as aforesaid is filed, the
 last date on which such return is to be filed under the said
 rules; (c) in any other case, the date on which the service tax is
 to be paid under this Chapter or the rules made
 thereunder; (ii) in a case where the service tax is provisionally assessed
 under this Chapter or the rules made thereunder, the date of
 adjustment of the service tax after the final assessment thereof; (iii) in a case where any sum, relating to service tax, has
 erroneously been refunded, the date of such refund.‖ W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 31 of 69 44. In the present case, eBIZ has been regularly filing service tax returns and
 has been paying service tax. It is not a person who has not filed a return
 under Section 70 of the FA as envisaged under Section 72 (a) of the FA.
 Under Section 72 (b) of the FA, the return filed by the Assessee can be
 scrutinized by the Central Excise Officer who has been assigned his
 functions in terms of the provisions of the FA read with CE Act . The
 narration of facts shows that the ST Department undertook scrutiny of the
 returns in which the exemption was claimed describing eBIZ as a ‗tour
 operator'. Searches and audits were also undertaken. SCNs were issued to
 eBIZ. In other words, the power of assessment has been and is continued to
 be exercised by the ST Commissionerate. If in terms of Section 72 of the
 FA, the Assessing Officer (AO) was of the view that eBIZ was wrongly
 availing exemption as a ‗tour operator' or evading service tax, it was open to
 the said AO to require such person to produce documents and other evidence
 to make an assessment of the value of the taxable service ―to the best of his
 judgment and determine the sum payable by the Assessee or refundable to
 the Assessee on the basis of such assessment‖. Section 72 of the FA requires
 the AO to give such person an opportunity of being heard. 45. In a decision rendered today in MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union
 of India (decision dated 1st September 2016 in W.P. (C) No. 521 of 2016),
 this Court has while analysing Sections 72 and 73 of the FA held as under: 46. As far as the present case is concerned, the DGCEI proceeded to
 compute the extent of evasion of service tax for a past period without even
 so much as an SCN being issued to eBIZ and without reference to the
 service tax returns filed by eBIZ and scrutinized by the ST Department.
 What effectively the DGCEI has sought to do is to reassess the service tax
 liability of eBIZ for a past period without resorting to any known procedure
 under the FA. Analysis of Section 73A of the FA 47. Section 73A of the FA is also relevant since it is the case of DGCEI that
 eBIZ has collected service tax and not deposited it with the Central
 Government. Section 73A of the FA reads thus: section (5), such amount shall either be credited to the Consumer
 Welfare Fund referred to in section 12C of the Central Excise Act,
 1944 or, as the case may be, refunded to the person who has borne the
 incidence of such amount, in accordance with the provisions of
 section 11B of the said Act and such person may make an application
 under that section in such cases within six months from the date of the
 public notice to be issued by the Central Excise Officer for the refund
 of such surplus amount." 48. Again, in MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (supra), this W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 34 of 69 Court has held: 49. In the present case, there is no determination by the DGCEI after issuing
 an SCN that eBIZ has collected service tax which it has failed to deposit
 with the Central Government. There is only a presumption drawn by
 calculating what the probable evasion would be if the exemption had not
 been availed by eBIZ as a 'tour operator'. Analysis of Section 72 A of the FA and the corresponding Rules 50. The FA does provide for special audits where there is reason to believe
 that there has been an evasion of service tax by an Assessee. Section 72 A of
 the FA provides for a special audit to be ordered by the Commissioner where
 he has reason to believe that any person liable to pay service tax has failed to
 declare or determine the value of a taxable service correctly, or has availed
 and utilised credit of duty or tax paid inter alia by means of fraud, collusion,
 or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts. In such instances, the
 Commissioner may direct such person to get his accounts audited by a
 chartered accountant or cost accountant nominated by him. 51. The power of the Commissioner to order a search has to be read together
 with Rule 5 A (1) of the Service Tax Rules 1994 which permits the officer
 authorised to carry out the search to "have access to any premises registered
 under these rules for the purpose of carrying out any scrutiny, verification
 and checks as may be necessary to safeguard the interest of revenue." 52. Thus the audit of the accounts can be undertaken by the ST Department W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 37 of 69 but a 'special audit' can be undertaken only by the professionals that are
 mentioned in Section 72 A of the FA. The above provisions are being
 referred to in the context of DGCEI seeking to make out a case that scope of
 the audit carried out on two occasions of the records and accounts of eBIZ
 by the ST Department was different from the scope of the search carried out
 by DGCEI. It is sought to be suggested that the audit party accepted at face
 value the information provided by eBIZ without inquiring further into the
 matter. The Court finds it difficult to accept this contention since it finds that
 the scope of the powers available to an officer authorised by the
 Commissioner to carry out a search under Rule 5 A (1) is wide enough to
 have 'access' to the records of an Assessee since it empowers the officer to
 carry out "any scrutiny, verification and checks as may be necessary to
 safeguard the interest of revenue." Therefore, the audit already carried out
 by the anti-evasion wing of the ST Commissionerate cannot be brushed off
 by the DGCEI as either insignificant or of a lesser scope for the purposes of
 the determination whether there has been evasion of service tax. It is one
 thing to say, after examining the records of past searches and audits, that
 there is still reason to believe that there has been evasion of tax for the
 grounds recorded but it is another to come to such conclusion without even
 referring to the records of the audit and searches carried out earlier. The
 latter would be vulnerable to being assailed on ground of lack of application
 of mind to relevant material which would enable an officer vested with the
 power in that behalf to come to a just, fair and reasonable conclusion. The
 present case falls in the latter category. 53. The Court also finds that the fear that if the DGCEI had contacted the ST
 Department prior to the search, the security of the informer would have been W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 38 of 69 compromised appears to be a red herring. The notes on file show that after
 the search was concluded, the DGCEI wrote to the ST Department seeking
 the relevant records. This could have easily have been done prior to the
 search without making any mention of any informer. The fact remains that at
 the time the search was contemplated by the DGCEI, there was no attempt at
 finding out what the history of the Assessee was as far as its compliance
 with the requirements of the FA was concerned. The records of the earlier
 searches and audits were certainly relevant material as far as the decision to
 order a fresh search was concerned. Power to search premises 54. In the present cases one of the main grounds on which eBIZ assails the
 action of the DGCEI is that the search ordered on its premises was itself
 illegal. Section 82 of the FA which is relevant reads as under: 55. In interpreting the above provision, this Court in MakeMy Trip (India)
 Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (supra) held thus: 56. As was noted in the case of the Petitioners in that case , here too, the
 notes on file mentioned the fact that any document secreted away by eBIZ
 and was relevant for the proceedings. The officers of the DGCEI, without
 referring to the requirements of the FA, entered the premises and made the
 Assessee agree to pay the alleged service tax dues without even an SCN.
 This is in violation of Section 82 of the FA and is also unconstitutional since
 it impinges on the life and liberty of the employees of the entities involved.
 The Court, therefore, finds that the search of the premises of eBIZ was
 contrary to law and, therefore, legally unsustainable. Analysis of Section 89 57. For the purposes of justifying the arrest and detention of Mr. Malhan, the
 DGCEI has sought to bring the case within Section 89 (1) (ii) of the FA.
 Section 89 of the FA Act prescribes offences and penalties. Section 89 reads
 as under: or (d) collects any amount as service tax but fails to pay the
 amount so collected to the credit of the Central Government
 beyond a period of six months from the date on which such
 payment becomes due. shall be punishable, - (i) in the case of an offence specified in clause (a), (b) or (c)
 where the amount exceeds fifty lakh rupees, with imprisonment
 for a term which may extend to three years: Provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to
 the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of the court, such
 imprisonment shall not be for a period of less than six months; (iii) in the case of any other offences, with imprisonment for a
 term, which may extend to one year. (2) If any person is convicted of an offence punishable under - (a) clause (i) or clause (iii), then, he shall be punished for the
 second and for every subsequent offence with imprisonment for
 a term which may extend to three years; (b) clause (ii), then, he shall be punished for the second and for
 every subsequence offence, with imprisonment for a term
 which may extend to seven years. (3) For the purposes of sub-sections (1) and (2), the following shall
 not be considered as special and adequate reasons for awarding a
 sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than six months, namely: - 58. In MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (supra), this Court
 analysed Section 89 of the FA as under: Section 89 (4) requires previous sanction of the Chief Commissioner
 of Central Excise for any prosecution under Section 89 of the FA. 65. It is important to note that determination of the commission of an
 offence for the purposes of Section 89 has to be made by the Court.
 Prior thereto, there can only be prima facie determination of such
 commission of offence. It may also be noted that by the amendments
 of 2013 the structure of Section 89 underwent a change. A distinction
 was drawn between the offences of the type described under Section
 89 (1) (a) , (b) and (c) on the one hand and Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA
 on the other. The former would be a non-cognizable whereas the latter
 was made cognizable and linked to Section 91 (1) regarding the power
 of arrest. 66. There are two aspects of the proceedings as far as Section 73A and Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA is concerned. Section 73A sets out the
 procedure for determination whether the situation envisaged
 thereunder exists. That procedure requires notice to be served on the
 person liable to pay such amount requiring him ―to show cause why
 the said amount, as specified in the notice, should not be paid by him W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 43 of 69 to the credit of the Central Government.‖ Therefore, under Section
 73A (4) , the Central Excise Officer concerned shall, after considering
 the representation made by such person, determine the amount due
 from such person, not being in excess of the amount specified in the
 notice. Those two steps are essential before it can be concluded that a
 person has collected service tax which is payable to the Central
 Government and has not paid it. 67. The second part of the procedure concerns the levy of penalty
 under Section 89(1) (d) of the FA. Here, two things are necessary
 apart from first determining that a person has committed the offence
 of collecting an amount of service tax but has failed to pay the amount
 collected. One is that it should not be paid beyond a period of six
 months from the date on which such payment becomes due. The
 second aspect is that the sentence as provided under Section 89 (1) (ii) of the FA, where the amount exceeds Rs. 50 lakhs, is imprisonment
 for a term which may extend to seven years. The proviso thereto
 suggests that for special and adequate reasons, the imprisonment can
 be lesser than six months in such cases. Where the amount does not
 exceed Rs. 50 lakhs, the imprisonment is for a term which may extend
 to one year. Where the person is again convicted for the subsequent
 offence, then the imprisonment is for a term which may extend to
 seven years. The above analysis is relevant for considering whether an
 offence is cognizable or not and consequently whether the provisions
 concerning arrest get attracted.‖

 Power to arrest 59. The Court next proceeds to examine Sections 90 and 91 of the FA that
 provide for arrest and read as under: section (1), shall be non-cognizable and bailable. 91. Power to arrest W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 44 of 69 (1) If the Commissioner of Central Excise has reason to believe that
 any person has committed an offence specified in clause (i) or clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 89 , he may, by general or special
 order, authorize any officer of Central Excise, not below the rank of
 Superintendent of Central Excise, to arrest such person. (2) Where a person is arrested for any cognizable offence, every
 officer authorized to arrest a person shall, inform such person of the
 grounds of arrest and produce him before a magistrate within twenty-
 four hours. (3) In the case of a non-cognizable and bailable offence, the Assistant
 Commissioner, or the Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be, shall
 for the purpose of releasing an arrested person on bail or otherwise,
 have the same powers and be subject to the same provisions as an
 officer in charge of a police station has, and is subject to, under Section 436 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). (4) All arrests under this Section shall be carried out in accordance
 with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of
 1974) relating to arrests.‖ 60. In MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (supra) this Court
 analysed the above provisions and held: The Income Tax Act, 1961 is an example of a direct tax statute. The
 Customs Act, 1962 and the Central Excise Act, 1944 are two of the
 many indirect tax statutes. These statutes have specific provisions
 which describe offences and the corresponding punishments.
 However, the scheme of the Income Tax Act, 1961 , in regard to
 offences and penalties, is distinct from the scheme under the Central
 Excise Act, 1944 or the Customs Act, 1962 . Under the Income Tax
 Act, 1961 there is a detailed procedure for assessment and it is only at
 the conclusion of the assessment that the Assessing Officer (‗AO')
 decides whether penalty proceedings should be initiated. It is only at
 that stage a decision is taken on initiating prosecution against the
 Assessee for the commission of any of the offences under that statute.
 It is inconceivable that an Assessee is straightway sought to be
 arrested without there being an assessment and a determination as to
 evasion of tax. 74. The Customs Act, 1962 , has a different approach to the question
 of offences. Chapter XVI thereof describes with specificity the types
 of offences and the procedure adopted in prosecuting such offences. Section 138A enables the court to draw a presumption, which is
 rebuttable, of the culpable mental state of the person charged with an
 offence under the Customs Act, 1962 which requires such culpable
 mental state. Even for the purposes of confiscation of smuggled
 goods, Section 123 of the Customs Act, 1962 shifts the burden of
 proof in the case of 'smuggling', to the person from whom the goods
 are seized to show that they are not smuggled goods. Powers are given
 to the Customs Officer under Section 108 to record statements which
 are admissible in law. The point to be noted is that coercive powers
 under taxing statutes are hedged in by limits on the use of that power
 by in-built restrictions and limitations. 75. It is for this reason that the powers of a Central Excise Officer
 under the FA cannot be compared with the powers exercised by the
 same officer either under the Customs Act or the Central Excise Act .
 Each of those statutes has a different and distinct scheme which does
 not bear comparison with the FA. For example, the FA envisages
 filing of periodic returns which is comparable to the Income Tax Act ,
 whereas the assessment under the Customs Act is of individual bills of
 entry. AS noticed earlier, the scheme of the FA provisions points to an
 assessment, followed by an adjudication of penalty under Section 83
 A of the FA. There are a separate set of provisions for launching
 prosecution. 76. The Supreme Court by a 2:1 majority in Radheyshyam Kejriwal v.
 State of West Bengal (2011) 3 SCC 581 summarised the law as
 explained in Standard Chartered Bank v. Directorate of
 Enforcement (2006) 4 SCC 278 and the earlier decisions in G. L.
 Didwania v. Income Tax Officer 1995 Supp (2) SCC 724 and K. C.
 Builders v. Assistant CIT (2004) 2 SCC 731 and inter alia held that(i)
 Adjudication proceedings and criminal prosecution can be launched
 simultaneously; (ii) Decision in adjudication proceedings is not
 necessary before initiating criminal prosecution and (iii) Adjudication
 proceedings and criminal proceedings are independent in nature to
 each other. 77. In the context of the provisions of the FA where an assessee has
 been regularly filing service tax returns which have been accepted by
 the ST Department or which in any event have been examined by it,
 as in the case of the two Petitioners, it is difficult to imagine that W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 48 of 69 without the commencement of the process of adjudication of penalty
 in terms of Section 83-A of the FA, another agency like the DGCEI
 can without an SCN or enquiry or investigation straightway go ahead
 to make an arrest merely on the suspicion of evasion of service tax or
 failure to deposit service tax that has been collected. Therefore, for a
 Central Excise officer or an officer of the DGCEI duly empowered
 and authorised in that behalf to be satisfied that a person has
 committed an offence under Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA, it would
 require an enquiry to be conducted by giving an opportunity to the
 person sought to be arrested to explain the materials and
 circumstances gathered against such person, which according to the
 officer points to the commission of an offence. Specific to Section 89
 (1) (d) of the FA, it has to be determined with some degree of
 certainty that a person has collected service tax but has failed to pay
 the amount so collected to the Central Government beyond the period
 of six months from the date on which such payment is due and further
 that the amount exceeds Rs. 50 lakhs. 78. Therefore, while the prosecution for the purposes of determining
 the commission of an offence under Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA and
 adjudication proceedings for penalty under Section 83 A of the FA
 can go on simultaneously, both will have to be preceded by the
 adjudication for the purposes of determining the evasion of service
 tax. The Petitioners are, therefore, right that without any such
 determination, to straightaway conclude that the Petitioners had
 collected and not deposited service tax in excess of Rs. 50 lakhs and
 thereby had committed a cognizable offence would be putting the cart
 before the horse. This is all the more so because one consequence of
 such determination is the triggering of the power to arrest under
 Section 90 (1) of the FA. 79. The Court notes that the Bombay High Court in ICICI Bank Ltd.
 v. Union of India 2015 (38) S.T.R. 907 (Bom) answered in the
 negative the following question: "Whether, without there being any
 adjudication in any of the proceedings as provided under Chapter 5 of
 the Finance Act, 1994 coercive steps can be taken by the Revenue, for
 recovery of service tax or penalty or interest." The Court there was
 dealing with a case where the Assessee had made payments under
 protest of alleged service tax dues under threat by the ST Department
 of taking drastic action under Section 87 of the FA in the form of W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 49 of 69 sealing of the business premises, attachment of bank accounts and so
 on. The Court held that "the amount payable by a person can be said
 to be payable only after there is determination as provided under Section 72 or Section 73 of the Act." It further held, "the conduct of
 the Revenue, firstly coercing the Assessee to make payment and
 thereafter not deciding the returns under Section 72 or not taking
 recourse to Section 73 , and asking the Assessee to take recourse to Section 11-B cannot be said to be just fair and reasonable approach." 80. One caveat, however, may be where a person is shown to be a
 habitual evader of service tax. Such person would have to be one who
 has not filed a service tax return for a continuous length of time, who
 has a history of repeated defaults for which there have been fines,
 penalties imposed and prosecutions launched etc. That history can be
 gleaned only from past records of the ST Department. In such
 instance, it might be possible to justify resorting to the coercive
 provisions straightaway. But then the notes on file must offer a
 convincing justification for resorting to that extreme a measure. What,
 however, requires reiteration is that the potent power of arrest should
 not be lightly and casually exercised to induce fear into an assessee
 and the consequential submission to the unreasonable demands made
 by officers of the investigating agency during the interrogation and
 while in custody. To again quote the Bombay High Court in ICICI
 Bank Ltd. v. Union of India (supra): 81. In Technomaint Contractors Ltd. v. Union of India 2014 (36)
 S.T.R. 488 (Guj), the Gujarat High Court held that Section 73 C of the
 FA cannot be activated for making a recovery even before
 adjudication. 82. In the context of the provisions for arrest under the Central Excise
 Act, 1944 , the DGCEI has published a Manual in 2004 containing
 guidelines to the CE Officers on when and in what circumstances
 resort should be had to the coercive step of arrest. In Chapter X para 7
 of the said Manual, it is stated that arrest can be made prior to the
 issue of an SCN but only "where fraudulent intent is clear (prima
 facie there is evidence of mens rea) or where the evidence is enough
 to secure a conviction or where the person is likely to abscond, tamper
 with evidence or influence the witnesses if left at large. Arrest at the
 investigation stage should be resorted to only when it is
 unavoidable." (emphasis supplied)‖

 Constitutional safeguards 61. At this stage it also requires to be recalled that since the provisions of the
 Cr PC stand attracted in terms of Section 90(2) as well as Section 91(4) of
 the FA, all the safeguards that are available to a person under Chapter V of
 the Cr PC are also available to a person sought to be arrested by Central
 Excise Officer under the provisions of the FA. These safeguards have been
 judicially evolved by reading constitutional limitations into the width and
 ambit of these powers. This Court in MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v.
 Union of India (supra) held thus: 84.3 These constitutional safeguards emphasised in the context of the
 powers of police officers under the Cr PC and of officers of central
 excise, customs and enforcement directorates, are applicable to the
 exercise of powers under the FA in equal measure. An officer whether
 of the Central Excise department or another agency like the DGCEI,
 authorised to exercise powers under the CE Act and/or the FA will
 have to be conscious of the constitutional limitations on the exercise
 of such power. This has been implicitly acknowledged in the circulars W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 53 of 69 issued from time to time by the Central Board of Excise and Customs
 (‗CBEC'). Insofar as officers of the Central Excise are concerned, the
 Service Tax Wing of the CBEC initially issued Circular No.
 171/6/2013-Service Tax dated 17th September, 2013 where specific
 attention has been drawn to the types of cases covered under Section
 89 (1) (i) and 89 (1) (ii) . In the latter case, it has been mandated that
 after following the due procedure of arrest, the arrested person must
 be produced before the Magistrate without unnecessary delay and
 definitely within 24 hours. Para 2 of the said circular specifies
 ‗conditions precedent'. Para 2.1 states that, since arrest impinges on
 the personal liberty of an individual ―this power must be exercised
 carefully‖. It has been mandated that an officer of the Central Excise
 not below the rank of the Superintendent can carry out an arrest on
 being authorised by the Commissioner of Central Excise. It is further
 stated that to authorise the arrest, the ―Commissioner should have
 reason to believe that the person proposed to be arrested has
 committed an offence specified in clause (i) or clause (ii) of sub-
 section (1) of Section 89 ‖ of the FA. Importantly, it states ―the reason
 to believe must be based on credible material which will stand judicial
 scrutiny‖. The further criterion is spelt out in para 2.3 which reads
 thus: Such offences should be related to collection of Service tax
 exceeding Rs.50 Lakh and not depositing the same to the
 government exchequer beyond a period of six months from
 the date on which such payment becomes due (the limit was
 later enhanced to Rs. 1 Crores w.e.f. vide Circular
 No.101/17/2015-CX dated 23.10.2015. In this regard, it is
 observed during 2014-15 alone the company has collected
 Rs.41,69,09,298/- inclusive of taxes (only Service tax is
 applicable on the said value) in the garb of Holiday packages
 while in the 9 months of 2015-16, the company have
 collected Rs.40,19,75,322/-) in the garb of Holiday packages.
 The company has not disclosed the amount of Service tax
 they have collected from the customers as in both of the W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 56 of 69 package shown by the party i.e. advanced eBiz educational
 package and Holiday Package, they are charging Rs.10,880/-
 inclusive of taxes. It is found that the company had collected
 Rs.4,12,75,356/- as Service tax in 2014-15 but not deposited
 the same with the government exchequer. Similarly Service
 Tax of Rs.4,44,28,851/- for 2015-16 but not deposited to the
 government exchequer (much higher than the limit of Rs. 1
 crore). In fact, in this way they have collected and not
 deposited approximately Service Tax to the tune of Rs.17
 Crores for the period 2011-12 to December 2015 for
 providing service of ―Online information and database access
 service and/or retrieval service through computer network‖ of
 their e-education packages in the garb of holiday package by
 mis declaring their services provided to the department. 14. It is therefore, proposed that Shri Pawan Malhan,
 Managing Director of M/s eBiz.com Pvt. Ltd. may be arrested
 under Section 89(1)(ii) of the Finance Act, 1994 for his role
 in evasion of Service Tax.‖ 66. It was repeatedly stressed by Mr. Satish Aggarwala that the reference to
 Circular No. 101/17/2015 dated 23rd October 2015 was a typographical error
 and in fact referred to Circular No. 1010/17/2015 dated 23rd October 2015.
 Be that as it may, what is significant is that there is no reference to the
 Circular No. 171/6/2013-Service Tax dated 17th September 2013 which sets
 out the ―Guidelines for arrest and bail in relation to offences punishable
 under the Finance Act, 1994 ‖. 67. It cannot be presumed that merely because there is a reference to the
 enlarged monetary limit in terms of the circular dated 23rd October 2015, the
 Officer proposing the arrest and the officers who approved it consciously
 applied their minds to the requirements of the abovementioned circular dated
 17th September 2013. Importantly, there is no determination whether there
 was any evasion of duty or possibility of evidence being tampered or W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 57 of 69 witnesses being influenced or non-cooperation in the investigation. The
 above prescriptions spelt out in para 2.2 of the said circular dated 17th
 September 2013 were not even adverted to. Importantly, for the purposes of
 deciding whether somebody is a habitual offender or is likely to evade
 service tax, some enquiry has to be made with the ST Department. There is
 no other way with the DGCEI to determine if the persons they are dealing
 with satisfy the profile of the person who should be arrested. 68. In this context, the following passages in the decision of this Court in
 MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (supra) are relevant: The standard of proof required in a criminal prosecution is
 higher as the case has to be established beyond reasonable
 doubt whereas the adjudication proceedings are decided on
 the basis of preponderance of probability. Therefore, even
 cases where demand is confirmed in adjudication
 proceedings, evidence collected should be weighed so as to
 likely meet the test of being beyond reasonable doubt for
 recommending prosecution. Decision should be taken on
 case-to-case basis considering various factors, such as,
 nature and gravity of offence, quantum of duty/tax evaded
 or Cenvat credit wrongly availed and the nature as well as W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 59 of 69 quality of evidence collected. 6.4 Decision on prosecution should be normally taken
 immediately on completion of the adjudication
 proceedings. However, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
 the case of Radheyshyam Kejriwal [2011 (266) ELT 294
 (SC)] has inter alia, observed the following (i) adjudication
 proceedings and criminal proceedings can be launched
 simultaneously; (ii) decision in adjudication proceedings is
 not necessary before initiating criminal prosecution; (iii)
 adjudication proceedings and criminal proceedings are
 independent in nature to each other and (iv) the findings
 against the person facing prosecution in the adjudication
 proceedings is not binding on the proceeding for criminal
 prosecution. Therefore, prosecution may even be launched
 before the adjudication of the case, especially where
 offence involved is grave, qualitative evidences are
 available and it is also apprehended that party may delay
 completion of adjudication proceedings.‖ 96. What this circular again underscores is that there should be a
 comprehensive analysis of the evidence gathered before deciding to
 go in for prosecution. Importantly, prosecution should not be launched
 merely because a demand has been confirmed or particularly where
 the cases are of technical nature or where interpretation of law is
 involved. It is also not to be launched where additional claim of
 duty/tax is only based on difference of opinion regarding
 interpretation of law. Importantly, it has to be normally taken only
 ―immediately upon completion of adjudication proceedings‖. 97. There is a reason behind this stipulation that prosecution should
 normally be launched only after the adjudication is complete. The
 'adjudication' in this context is the adjudication of the penalty under
 Section 83 A of the FA. That provision mandates that there must be in
 the first place a determination that a person is "liable to a penalty",
 which cannot happen till there is in the first place a determination in
 terms of Section 72 or 73 or 73 A of the FA. Till that point, the entire
 case proceeds on the basis that there must be an apprehended evasion
 of tax by the Assessee. This apprehension hinges upon the analysis of
 the evidence gathered by the investigating agency. It is possible that W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 60 of 69 the officer will take a different view because he has the opportunity of
 hearing both the sides and to more carefully analyze the evidence that
 has been gathered. Where prosecution is sought to be launched even
 before the adjudication of the penalty it has to be shown that (a) the
 offence involved is grave (b) qualitative evidence is available and (c)
 it is apprehended that the Assessee may delay the completion of
 adjudication proceedings. This underscores the importance of
 obtaining sanction for prosecution both in cases of MMT and
 IBIBO...." 69. Significantly, in the present case, no attempt was made by the DGCEI
 even to talk to the ST Department before proceeding to search the premises
 of eBIZ and soon thereafter arrest Mr. Malhan. 70. The explanation offered in Court by Mr. Satish Aggarwala, on
 instructions, was that these Departments have to act ‗secretly' to the extent
 that the DGCEI will not even tell the ST Department of their proposed
 actions. To the Court, it seems unacceptable that with the guidelines issued
 for launching of prosecution and procedure for arrest, the DGCEI or any
 other agency other than the ST Department can form any reasonable opinion
 regarding such launch of prosecution or go for arrest. 71. The Bombay High Court in the context of abuse of the powers vested in
 officers under the Customs Act, 1962 observed in Vodafone Essar South
 Limited v. Union of India 2009 (237) ELT 35 (Bom), as under: 72. It has been mentioned in the notes on file in more than one place that Mr.
 Malhan voluntarily paid Rs. 17 crores as arrears of service tax dues. Mr.
 Aggarwala repeatedly stressed that such payment was not a pre-condition for
 the grant of bail and that, in principle, the DGCEI would oppose grant of
 bail in criminal proceedings only because an offer is made to pay the arrears
 of service tax dues in such proceedings. The case of eBIZ on the other hand
 is that such payment was made under extreme duress. The action of the
 DGCEI has been described by it as malafide and "just to harass" eBIZ and
 its officers. 73. This Court has already observed that in the present case the DGCEI did
 not observe any of the statutory or constitutional safeguards. Not only was
 the search contrary to Section 82 of the FA, the subsequent action of arrest
 of Mr. Malhan was undertaken contrary to the legal requirement of Section
 89 read with Sections 90 and 91 of the FA. It is a case of overkill by the
 officers of the DGCEI. The existence of powers is one thing and its exercise,
 another. 74. In the circumstances outlined earlier, when the MD of a company is in
 judicial custody, the offer made to pay the alleged arrears of service tax dues W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 62 of 69 of such company even without an SCN can hardly be characterised as
 'voluntary'. The loss of liberty, and more disconcertingly, the loss of
 reputation, is bound to compel even the most rational person to succumb to
 the extreme pressure that such circumstance subjects him to. In more or less
 similar circumstances, this Court in MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union
 of India (supra) held: 75. The Court is satisfied that in the present case the payment of Rs. 17
 crores by eBIZ was not 'voluntary' but under coercion and duress and is W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 63 of 69 required to be returned to eBIZ by the DGCEI forthwith and in any event not
 later than four weeks from today. It is clarified that this will not in any
 manner affect the bail already granted to Mr. Malhan. Those proceedings
 will be taken to their logical end. Non-cooperation by eBIZ 76. The case of the DGCEI in its affidavits before the Court is that eBIZ was
 failing to co-operate in the investigation. In particular, it is complained that
 eBIZ was not providing the information sought by the DGCEI. It is stated
 that a whole truckload of documents were submitted which according to the
 DGCEI were not relevant. 77. The above submission appears to be contrary to the letter dated 8th April,
 2016 issued to eBIZ by the DGCEI. If indeed only limited information was
 sought, then the letter dated 8th April 2016 should have been worded
 differently. What eBIZ was asked to submit was the information in a certain
 format designed by the DGCEI itself. This format is appended to the letter
 dated 11th May 2016, issued by Dr. Bedi to eBIZ. There is no requirement in
 law that eBIZ should maintain the information in a particular format. Mr.
 Aggarwala was unable to point out any provision in the FA or the ST Rules
 that required eBIZ to maintain information in a particular format. 78. It appears to the Court after carefully considering the affidavits on record
 that the conduct of the officers of the DGCEI in refusing to receive the
 documents tendered to them and terming the conduct of eBIZ to be non-
 cooperative is not justified in the facts and circumstances. At the same time,
 the Court would reiterate the direction that eBIZ and its officers including
 Mr. Malhan will continue to co-operate with the DGCEI in carrying the W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 64 of 69 investigations to their logical end. Summary of Conclusions 79. To summarise the conclusions in this judgment: (iii) For a Central Excise officer or an officer of the DGCEI duly empowered W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 65 of 69 and authorised in that behalf to be satisfied that a person has committed an
 offence under Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA, it would require an enquiry to be
 conducted by giving an opportunity to the person sought to be arrested to
 explain the materials and circumstances gathered against such person, which
 according to the officer points to the commission of an offence. Specific to Section 89 (1) (d) of the FA, it has to be determined with some degree of
 certainty that a person has collected service tax but has failed to pay the
 amount so collected to the Central Government beyond the period of six
 months from the date on which such payment is due, and further that the
 amount exceeds Rs. 50 lakhs (now enhanced to Rs. 1 crore). (iv) A possible exception could be where a person is shown to be a habitual
 evader of service tax. Such person would have to be one who has not filed a
 service tax return for a continuous length of time, who has a history of
 repeated defaults for which there have been fines, penalties imposed and
 prosecutions launched etc. That history can be gleaned only from past
 records of the ST Department. In such instances, it might be possible to
 justify resorting to the coercive provisions straightaway, but then the notes
 on file must offer a convincing justification for resorting to that extreme a
 measure. (v) The decision to arrest a person must not be taken on whimsical grounds;
 it must be based on ‗credible material'. The constitutional safeguards laid
 out in D K. Basu 's case (supra) in the context of the powers of police
 officers under the Cr PC and of officers of central excise, customs and
 enforcement directorates, are applicable to the exercise of powers under the
 FA in equal measure. An officer, whether of the Central Excise Department W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 66 of 69 or another agency like the DGCEI, authorised to exercise powers under the CE Act and/or the FA will have to be conscious of the constitutional
 limitations on the exercise of such power. (vi) In the present case, without even an SCN being issued and without there
 being any determination of the amount of service tax arrears, the resort to
 the extreme coercive measure of arrest followed by detention of Mr. Malhan
 was impermissible in law. (vii) In terms of CBEC's own procedures, for the launch of prosecution there
 has to be a determination that a person is a habitual offender. There is no
 such determination in the present case. The DGCEI cannot possibly come to
 a conclusion that an Assessee is an habitual offender if there is no discussion
 by the DGCEI with the ST Department regarding the history of such
 Assessee. Assuming that for whatever reasons if the DGCEI does not talk to
 ST Department, certainly it needs to access the service tax record of such
 Assessee. Without even requisitioning that record, it could not have been
 possible for the DGCEI to arrive at a reasonable conclusion whether there
 was a deliberate attempt of evading payment of service tax. (viii) The search undertaken by the DGCEI of the premises of eBIZ on 19th
 January 2016 was illegal. For the exercise of powers of search under Section
 82 of the FA, (i) an opinion has to be formed by the Joint Commissioner or
 Additional Commissioner or other officers notified by the Board that ―any
 documents or books or things‖ which are useful for or relevant for any
 proceedings under this Chapter are secreted in any place, and (ii) the note
 preceding the search of a premises has to specify the above requirement of
 the law. The search in the present case was in violation of Section 82 of the W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 67 of 69 FA. It is unconstitutional and legally unsustainable. (ix) The Court is unable to accept that payment by the two Petitioners of
 alleged service tax arrears was voluntary. Consequently, the amount that was
 paid by the Petitioners as a result of the search of their premises by the
 DGCEI, without an adjudication much less an SCN, is required to be
 returned to them forthwith. (x) The payment of Rs. 17 crores by eBIZ was not 'voluntary' but under
 coercion and duress and is required to be returned to eBIZ by the DGCEI
 forthwith and in any event not later than four weeks from today. It is
 clarified that this will not in any manner affect the bail already granted to
 Mr. Malhan. Those proceedings will be taken to their logical end. (xi) The conduct of the officers of the DGCEI in refusing to receive the
 documents tendered to them and terming the conduct of eBIZ to be non-
 cooperative is not justified in the facts and circumstances. At the same time,
 the Court would reiterate the direction that eBIZ and its officers including
 Mr. Malhan will continue to co-operate with the DGCEI in carrying the
 investigations to their logical end. 80. The interim directions issued on 28th January 2016 are made absolute. It
 is directed that the DGCEI will refund to eBIZ forthwith the sum of Rs. 17
 crores deposited by it towards alleged dues of service tax and in any event
 not later than four weeks from today. Any delay in refund beyond the said
 period will make the DGCEI liable to pay simple interest at 6 % per annum
 on the said amount from the date on which it becomes due in terms of this
 order till the date of payment. The refund in terms of this order will not W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 68 of 69 affect the bail granted to Mr. Malhan. 81. The Court clarifies that it has in this decision determined the legality of
 the DGCEI in proceeding to search the premises of eBIZ and then deciding
 to arrest Mr. Malhan. The observations made by the Court on the merits of
 the contentions of either party is in the above context. This is not intended to
 influence the adjudication proceedings that might ensue if an SCN is issued
 in accordance with law by the DGCEI to eBIZ. Further, the right of eBIZ or
 Mr. Malhan to institute appropriate proceedings in accordance with law to
 recover damages and/or compensation is reserved. 82. The writ petition is disposed of in the above terms with costs of Rs.
 1 lakh which will be paid by the DGCEI to eBIZ within four weeks. S.MURALIDHAR, J

 VIBHU BAKHRU, J

 SEPTEMBER 1, 2016 W.P. (C) 756/2016 Page 69 of 69