1. This is an application under Article 226 of the Constitution of

India. Essentially the writ petitioner has impugned the manner in which

the second respondent records data regarding citizens in India under the

provisions of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other

Subsidies, benefits and services) Act, 2016 and also the provisions of the

(Aadhaar Enrolment and update) Regulation 2018. However, the exact

reliefs claimed by the writ petitioner principally are as follows: 2. Nothing else has been prayed for in the writ petition for which a

Rule Nisi has been sought. Therefore, the writ petition must be

considered as being restricted to not merely the above reliefs but to be

considered within the four corners under the said statutes. 3. The writ petitioner is a co-owner of the three storied building at 52

B, Kansari Para Road, Kolkata 700025 along with the named persons

who have not been made party to the writ petition. The ground floor of

the said premises consisting of two rooms, a kitchen and a bath cum

privy and a common court yard as described in paragraphs 4 and 3 of

the writ petition. In 1969 it was demised in favour of one Dr. Keshab

Bhusan Roy since deceased. He was married and resided there with his 3 wife Meenakshi Roy and his only son Bhaskar Roy. His daughter

Debjani Bhattacharya (nee Roy), was married and resided elsewhere after

marriagesince February 1985. The respondent no. 8 had a fortuitous

surname which was the same as that of Dr. Roy. It is the case of the writ

petitioner that he was a domestic help employed by Dr. Roy doing odd

jobs in the house and chamber of Dr. Roy. It has been suggested from

the Bar that the private respondent was a compounder of the said

doctor. On September 24, 2006 the wife of the said doctor expired; on

November 3, 2012 the only son of the said doctor expired while living in

Netherlands. So, since September, 2006 Dr. Roy used to reside alone at

the demised premises. 4. The writ petitioner claims that even after the respondent no. 8

obtained employment in Group D post under the respondent no. 7 he

remained with the said doctor and under his employment. Therefore, he

also resided with the said doctor. Taking advantage of this residence on

the death on January 5, 2015 of the said doctor the private respondent

continued in such possession though he had no right to reside there. 5. The writ petitioner has alleged that he and the other co-owners

requested him to vacate the demised premises he, however, avoided them

on one pretext or the other and remained in possession of the suit

property. 6. In or around March 2015 the writ petitioner received summons of

the said filed by the private respondent being Title Suit No. 37 of 2015

before the Learned Civil Judge (Junior Division) 4th Court at Alipore,

district 24 Parganas for declaration and injunction. In the application for 4 the injunction the private respondent is the plaintiff petitioner alleged the

following: - 7. The documents disclosed by the private respondent no. 8 in

support of the above claim included not merely the electoral

identification card issued under the authorities under the Representation

of People Act, 1951 but also the aadhar card issued by the respondent

no. 2 under the provisions of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial

and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (Act 18 of 16).

The writ petitioner therefore was given the impression that the private

respondent no. 8 was an illegitimate but biological son of Dr. Keshab

Bhushan Roy. 8. However, upon inquiries made with several government

authorities, the petitioner came to know that the supporting documents

of the private Respondent are forged insofar as they exhibit the name of

his father as Dr. Keshab Bhusan Roy with an oblique motive and an

ulterior intention to lay claim upon the demised tenancy. 9. An application made by the Petitioner under the Right to

Information Act, 2005 before the Joint Director (Rationing) Kolkata,

South Division in regard to the name of the private Respondent revealed

that the name of the father of the Private Respondent was one 'R. C. Roy'.

A similar application was made by the petitioner before the South 5 Eastern Railway by which the Petitioner came to know that the father of

the Private Respondent is one 'Rakhal Ch. Roy'. 10. Thereafter, the petitioner lodged a complaint regarding falsification

of information with the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal contending

that the information provided by the private Respondent was false in

nature. Pursuant to such complaints, a proceeding was initiated against

the private Respondent and after a necessary Field Inquiry, where the

private Respondent failed to produce any document establishing that his

father's name was 'Dr. Keshab Bhusan Roy' and not 'Rakhal Ch. Roy', an

order dated November 15, 2016 was passed by the Electoral Registration

Officer by which the father's name of the private Respondent was

changed to 'Rakhal Ch. Roy' from Keshab Bhusan Roy. 11. This order dated November 15, 2016 was not challenged by the

respondent no. 8. As a matter of fact, on instructions, the learned

advocate appearing for the private respondent submitted that his client

was the compounder of the original "tenant" Dr. Keshab Bhusan Roy and

did not seek leave to challenge the decision dated November 15, 2016

and did not even assert that his son was the son of the said Dr. Keshab

Bhusan Roy or dispute what the petitioner was alleging on oath nor seek

an opportunity to use any Affidavit-in-Opposition. 12. Finally, the petitioner approached the Respondent No. 2, the

Unique Identification Authority of India, seeking action against the

private Respondent for offences committed under chapter VII of the

Aadhaar Act, 2016 and even lodged a complaint with the Respondent No.

4, the Officer-in-Charge, Kalighat Police Station, against the private

Respondent for committing cognizable offence of cheating and of filing 6 false evidence under the Indian Penal Code , 1860. However, no action

has been taken by the respective authorities upon the complaints of the

petitioner and aggrieved by this, the Petitioner filed this writ petition

before this Court seeking the aforesaid prayers. 13. When the matter was moved first on November 14, 2018, I

recorded that the respondents had all been served but some of them

including the respondents no. 2 and 3 were not represented. In view of

the rules of our Court relating to applications under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India I could not dispose of the writ petition finally in

their absence. Hence, I once again directed service on the said

respondents and, requested the learned Additional Solicitor General to

assist the Court on the next date fixed being December 4, 2018. On the

returnable date, the learned Additional Solicitor General appeared

leading the learned advocate for the respondents no. 2 and 3 as also the

Union of India including the respondent no.7. 14. In terms of the observations of the order dated November 14, 2018,

a question had arisen as to how the Income Tax Authority and the other

statutory authorities including the 2nd respondent could have recorded

as the father of the private respondent any person merely on the

declaration of the private respondent (respondent no. 8.), even though he

only had as on the death of the said person (Dr. Keshab Bhusan Roy) a

married daughter. What I had really wanted to know was, were the

authorities of the respondent no.2 so gullible or so deficient in technology

to accept whatever was stated by the individual regarding his

"Demographic Information" as defined by the statute or whether there

was any procedure for verifying and/or authenticating the same before

recording it as part of the process of enrollment. 15. The Learned Additional Solicitor General alongwith Mr. Mukherjee,

submitted that no authentication is made of any material which is

declared by an applicant for Aadhar card in his application. It is done

merely on the details provided by the applicant in his application. He

also submitted that if there is any discrepancy alleged or any other

mistake alleged there are also provisions under Regulation 28(1)(c) of the

Aadhar (Enrolment and Update) Regulation, 2017 for correction of the

same by the Aadhar authority themselves and the writ petitioner may be

relegated to such remedy. The learned advocate for the petitioner

submits that the penalty under Section 41 of The Aadhaar (Targeted

Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act,

2016 (Act 18 of 16) can be imposed by the Aadhar authorities as and

when they consider and dispose of the application made before the

respondent authorities. 16. Even though he asked for further time to file an affidavit, opposing

the application he could not give any particular as to which of the

records disclosed by the writ petitioner his client the Aadhar authority

would dispute. It was very strange that the respondent no. 2 could not

give this rather simple information especially since the records relied

upon by the writ petitioner are either those issued by statutory

authorities or pleadings filed in court and their enclosures, even in 20

days though he could brief learned advocates, and despite service of the

writ petition having been effected on it, on August 29, 2018 as appears

from the affidavit of service. The office of the respondent no. 2 is at

Ranchi in Jharkhand and not very far from Kolkata even by road, let

alone by air. Instructions can be given on mobile phone and by

electronic means, within minutes. If the respondent no. 2 could not 8 even give this instruction after going through the writ petition and even

thereafter, when the engaging them to appear on the returnable date, it

does not appear that it has anything to dispute. Again, in view of the

Learned Additional Solicitor General's fair submission, there is nothing

on merit that the respondent no. 2 can dispute. I therefore do not accede

to his request to adjourn the matter. 17. The writ petitioner has challenged the cavalier manner in which

the second respondent records date relating to citizens in India. Till very

recently, the second respondent under the provisions of The Aadhaar

(Targeted Delivery of Financial And Other Subsidies, Benefits And

Services) Act, 2016 (Act 18 of 16) had an unlimited mandate of recording

the most private information of citizens including their biometric

information. This wascriticized as being the beginning of a Fascist State

and the matter travelled to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. By the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India Justice K.S.

Puttaswamy (Retd.) And Another--vs-- Union of India And

Othersbeing Writ Petition (Civil) No. 494 Of 2012which was decided

onSeptember 26, 2018,the law has been well-settled that Aadhaar is

not the only mode of identification of a person nor can it be compulsorily

demanded as a proof of identity in all cases. 18. One of the criticisms leveled against the system by which the

second respondent prepares and issues such Aadhaar Card is that there

is neither any sanctity of the information which is provided not any

security that such information shall not be available to those who are not

expressly authorized to access it. The present writ petition in effect

challenges the first part of the system though it does not go far enough

as to have the system quashed on the issue of the sanctity or 9 genuineness of the demographic information. To summarize the

allegations contained in the writ petition in the facts narrated at

paragraphs 1 to 12 of this judgement, according to the writ petitioner, an

employee of a deceased tenant of the writ petitioner took advantage of the

death of the tenant and alleged falsely that he was the son of the

deceased tenant and, in fact, filed a civil suit for declaration of his

tenancy on the basis of an Aadhar card where the demographic

information which he relied upon for such false allegation, was furnished

by him and accepted without verification by the respondent no. 2. There

were other documents in which an allegation was made that the

deceased tenant was the father of the private respondent (respondent no. 8). For instance, during the pendency of the suit, the respondent no. 6,

after due investigation, has duly altered the name of the father of the

respondent no. 8 from Keshab Bhusan Roy to Rakhal Chandra Roy in

the "Voter Identity Card" of the private respondent as recorded at

paragraph 10 above. This appears from annexure to the writ petition

which is at page 61 of the writ petition. 19. The Respondent No. 2 before this Court, the Unique Identification

Authority of India ("UIDAI" for short) is a statutory body under section 11 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies,

Benefits & Services Act) Act, 2016 ("the Aadhaar Act" for short) which

came into force on September 12, 2016. The UIDAI is mandated to issue

12-digit Unique Identification Number called Aadhaar to the residents

based on demographic and biometric information submitted by them to

the UIDAI at the time of their enrolment into the Aadhaar scheme. These

Aadhaar numbers are communicated to the respective holders in

physical form vide Aadhaar letters by way of postal communication. 10 20. The system came into a conflict quite recently, with a number of

public-spirited citizens approaching the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a

number of Public Interest Litigations filed under Article 32 of the

Constitution of India seeking that the Aadhaar Act be deemed

unconstitutional for its mandatory provisions of enrolment which

compulsorily required citizens to part with personal information, being

demographic as well as biometric in nature, most importantly in the

wake of the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment dated August 24, 2017 in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India reported in (2017) 10 SCC

1 which unanimously affirmed that the right to privacy is a fundamental

right under the Indian Constitution. 21. However, the issue which seeks judicial determination before this

Court is not one which pertains to the violation of the fundamental right

to privacy because of leakages to sensitive biometric as well as

demographic information, the unauthorized sharing of such information

or any other apprehensions with which the Petitioners before the

Supreme Court of India were concerned of.Rather, questions have been

raised against the very sanctity of an Aadhaar card as a source of

individual identification.Therefore, to begin with, a disclaimer must be

put to effect that Aadhaar is not the only means to identification and the

question of identification of a person based on which a civil dispute

would be decided do not solely rests with his/her Aadhaar identification.

This legal position can be aptly inferred from the Supreme Court's

decision in Justice K. S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Another--v--Union

of India and Others being Writ Petition (Civil) No. 494 of 2012

(supra). Seen from this angle, the case of the writ petitioner is simply

that the private respondent in his Aadhaar application has provided false 11 demographic information with certain oblique and ulterior motive to

wrongfully acquire the tenancy of the deceased tenant (Dr. Keshab

Bhusan Roy) by projecting himself to be his son with the help of his

Aadhaar credentials and that criminal proceedings are not being started

against the private respondent. 22. The purpose of an Aadhar is manifold and it could best be

understood by looking at the Statement and Objects of the Act. To this

extent, reliance is placed upon a two-Judge Bench decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Binoy Viswam--v--Union of India and

Others reported in (2017) 7 SCC 59, wherein after taking into

consideration the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act,the

Hon'ble Supreme Court recapitulated the objectives of Aadhaar in the

following manner: 23. A unique project in itself, the uniqueness of the Aadhar project is

supplemented on account of the information collected for the generation

of an Aadhar card. It is perhaps for the first time in the history of this

country that individual biometric information became a cause of concern

for its citizens and therefore a great many eyebrows were raised seeking

their protection. One reason why an individual biometric information

could be regarded so faultless is perhaps because of its aversion towards

falsification. It could thus be said that biometric identification are less

prone to falsification and thus more reliable. 24. A bare perusal of the Aadhaar Act, 2016 makes it patently clear

that an individual seeking to register within the Aadhaar scheme has to

part with four types of information collected for making an Aadhaar

application complete. These are: 25. The biometric information of the individual is the individual's

physical that is to say biological particulars which cannot be sent by

someone. His retinal scan and finger prints must be provided by him

personally by being present before the authorized person of the authority

who records the biometric information after the individual has made the

application before the respondent no. 2.However, these are information

which can be physically verified and are in fact physical - demographic

information such as the name, date of birth, address and other relevant

information of an applicant requires something more to be verified and

something more than mere declaration. 26. Therefore, this aspect of the Aadhaar scheme which concerns

recording of the demographic information belonging to the individuals 13 assumes tremendous importance in the context of the present discourse.

The Aadhaar Act, 2016 vide section 2 (k) defines 'Demographic

Information' as: 27. It is under this head that information concerning the parentage of

an individual is sought. This becomes clear from the AADHAAR

(ENROLMENT AND UPDATE) REGULATIONS, 2016 dated September 12,

2016 and issued under the authority of the Chief Executive Authority,

UIDAI. Rule 10 of the aforesaid regulation lays down guidelines for

submission and verification of information of individuals seeking

enrolment. Sub-rule 5 of Rule 10 states that the verification of the

enrolment data shall be as provided in Schedule III of the aforesaid

regulation. Thus, it becomes necessary to understand the verification

process in accordance with the aforesaid schedule. For this reason,

Schedule III of the aforesaid regulations has been culled out and

produced below: [emphasis supplied by me] 18 34. The whole architecture of Aadhaar is devised to give unique

identity to the citizens of this country. No doubt, a person can have

various documents on the basis of which that individual can establish

her identity. It may be in the form of a Passport, Permanent Account

Number (PAN) card, Ration card and so on. For the purpose of enrolment

itself, a number of documents are prescribed which an individual can

produce on the basis of which Aadhaar card can be issued. Thus, such

documents, in a way, are also proof of identity. However, there is a

fundamental difference between the Aadhaar card as a means of proving

identity and other documents through which identity can be established.

Enrolment for Aadhaar card also requires giving of demographic

information as well as biometric information which is in the form of iris

and fingerprints. This process eliminates any chance of duplication. It is

emphasized that an individual can manipulate the system by having

more than one or even number of PAN cards, passports, ration cards

etc., however, when it comes to obtaining an Aadhaar card, there is no

possibility of obtaining duplicate card. Sadly, the process installed to

collect demographic information of an individual does not stand in the

same spirit with which the Aadhaar scheme was projected. 35. Against this backdrop, this Court finds it necessary to refer to

certain queries posed by the Petitioners in S.G. Vombatkereand

Another--v--Union of India being W.P. (C) No. 829 of 2013 and the

responses of the UIDAI on the same. These questions and answers, as

referred to in the Justice K. S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Another--v--

Union of India and Others being Writ Petition (Civil) No. 494 of 2012

(supra) has been culled out and stated as the following: 19 Ans.: Biometric authentication of an Aadhaar number holder
is always performed as 1:1 biometric match against his/her
Aadhaar number (identity) in CIDR. Based on the match,
UIDAI provides Yes or No response. A "Yes" response means
a positive identification of the Aadhaar number holder. Each
enrolment is biometrically de-duplicated against all (1.2
billion) residents to issue the Aadhaar number (or Unique
Identity). Q (b) UIDAI takes no responsibility with respect to the
correctness of the name, date of birth or address of the
personenrolled. Ans.: The Name/Address/DOB are derived from the Proof of
Identity (POI)/Proof of Address (POA) documents submitted
during enrolments. The enrolment/update packet
(encrypted) retains a scanned copy of the POI/POA
documents used for the enrolment which can be reviewed in
case of dispute. UIDAI maintains the update history of each 20 Aadhaar number related to changes in name, address, date
 of birth etc.

 Q (4) Please confirm: Ans.: Please refer to Answer (1) above. Additionally, it may be
 stated that enrolment of Aadhaar is done through a resident
 enrolment process and verification of the POI/POA document
 is done against the acceptable documents, as per the UIDAI
 valid list of documents as provided in Schedule II and III
 Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations, 2016 read
 with Regulation 10 . UIDAI takes responsibility in creating
 and implementing standards, ensuring matching systems
 installed in CIDR work as they are designed to do, and
 providing options to Aadhaar holders in terms of controlling
 their identity (such as updating their data, locking their
 biometrics, etc.) and accessing their own authentication
 records. One of the key goals of Aadhaar is to issue a unique
 identity for the residents of India. Hence, each enrolment is
 biometrically de-duplicated against all (1.2 billion) residents
 to issue the Aadhaar number (or Unique Identity). 36. These are very convincing answers, but not to the questions posed.

The descendants of Mr. Nilekani have perfected the doublespeak of 1984

(George Orwell) if not the Yes Minister and Yes Prime Minister (Jonathan

Lynn and Anthony Jay, BBC)where it appears that a given question is

being answered, though no information is given. The response to the

first question in paragraph 35 would have been more honest and correct

if it was that if the registrar/enrolment agency appointed personnel to

verify the documents submitted for recording the information then the

respondent no. 2 or its official could verify the correctness of the

document offered at the stage of enrolment. It has clearly not stated that. 37. There is definitely something amiss with the Aadhaar enrollment

process if important demographic information such as the name of an 21 applicant's father, as is the case in hand, can be falsified and even go

undetected. Thus, in order to get a wider picture of the entire Aadhaar

process, the regulations concerning the Aadhaar scheme could not be

allowed to evade scrutiny of this Court. 38. Thus, Schedule III of the aforesaid regulations clearly lays down

that demographic information so far as the name of an individual

applicant's Father or Mother or Guardian or Husband or Wife is

concerned is conditional and further no verification is done to that extent

in case of adults. This position is further reinforced by the submissions

made by the Learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing before this

Court on behalf of the respondent Authorities wherein upon a question

posed by this Court as to the process of verification of demographic

information concerning the parentage of an individual applicant, the

Learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that no verification is

sought as regards such information and the application is processed on

the basis of the bare information provided by the applicants in their

application. 39. The malady in the present situation is further magnified by looking

as to how arbitrary could the process of verification of demographic

information of an Aadhaar applicant could be. One need not forget that

misleading or false information in this bracket would result into an

offence under section 34 falling under chapter VII of the Aadhaar Act,

2016. It provides for: 40. Yet in view of the reliefs sought by the petitioner and the pendency

of the civil suit where this is also at res and the desire of the petitioner

that his complaint culminate in criminal proceedings which are given a

lawful conclusion, I cannot look at whether the procedure of recording

the demographic information is itself arbitrary and thus struck by Article

14 of the Constitution of India. This therefore shall be considered in a

proper case where this falls for a decision. 41. In order to pass an order as sought by the writ petitioner a prima

facie finding is necessary to analyze as to whether an offence has been

committed or not by the private respondent for indicating in his Aadhaar

Card, the name of Dr. Keshab Bhusan Roy as that of his father. The facts

of the case show that respondent no. 7, the employer of the private

respondent no. 8 in an application under Right to Information Act, 2005 admitted that the name of the father of the private respondent's father

according to service records is Rakhal Ch. Roy. This is not the same as

Keshab Bhusan Roy. This is on the basis of the declaration and

documents submitted by the private respondent. The Field inquiry

carried on by the authorities who issue electoral identification cards

alongwith photograph - in effect the Electoral Registration Officer -

shows that the private respondent has nothing to prove or authenticate

that his father's name is anything but Rakhal Ch. Roy and on that basis,

has changed the name of the father of the private respondent from

Keshab Bhushan Roy to Rakhal Ch. Roy in the electoral identity card of

the private respondent. This has not been disputed or challenged by the

private respondent as recorded in paragraphs 10 and 11 of this 23 judgment.This casts a serious doubt about the claims made by the

private Respondent. 42. Sections 34 to 47 falling under Chapter VII of the Act enumerate

various kinds of offences and provide penalties for such offences. For our

purposes, relevant Section is Section 34 which makes an act of providing

any false demographic information or biometric information with an

intent to impersonate or even attempt to impersonate another person

whether dead or alive, real or imaginary which is punishable with

imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with a fine

which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both. Chapter VII

contains the offences aforesaid. Section 47 of the said Act of 2016

provides as follows: - 43. Therefore, the only way that complaint made before the respondent

no. 4 can be taken cognizance of, or that any step can be taken by the

respondent no. 6 on it as prayed for, is if the complaint in question of an

offence under the Act of 2016 or the Regulations of 2016 is made by the

respondent no. 2. The petitioner is not the respondent no. 2 nor any

person authorized by it. However, the petitioner has made a

complaint/representation before the respondent no. 2 and also the

respondent no. 4. From the undisputed records aforesaid and the

discussions above, it is clear that on facts at least the writ petitioner has 24 made out a case of such offence under the Act of 2016 being done by the

private respondent as has been alleged by him therein. Accordingly, I feel

it is a case where the respondent no. 2 is directed to cause a complaint

to be made to the statutory authorities including the respondents no. 4,

5 and 6 that an offence appears to have been done by the private

respondent as informed by the petitioner on June 8, 2018 at page 69 and

July 1, 2018 at page 71 to two different statutory authorities within two

weeks from the date of communication of the order. As and when the

said complaint is made, the said statutory authority shall take lawful

steps to investigate and take the proceedings to a lawful conclusion. In

case of the respondent no. 4, the complaint shall be sent to an officer of a

rank not lesser than an Inspector of Police for investigation. In respect of

the other statutory authorities they shall act in accordance with their

parent law including the Representation of People Act, 19650. The

respondent no. 2 and his men, agents, servants, employees, staff,

subordinates and/or authorities shall also take proceedings under Regulation 29 of the Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations 2016

notified on September 12, 2016 as to whether or not to cancel or omit or

deactivate under Regulations 27, 28 and/or 29,the Aadhaar number

issued to the private respondent, on the basis of the allegations

contained in the said representation at page 69 made to the respondent

no. 2 in accordance with law, giving full opportunity of being heard to the

petitioner and the private respondent no. 8. He shall take a decision

within a period of two months from the date of communication of this

order on him. He shall give a prior notice of hearing to both the writ

petitioner and the private respondent no. 8 for the first hearing

whereafter the date will be fixed during hearing itself. He shall

communicate a decision within a further period of seven days from 25 taking his decision. Till such decision and subject to it no benefit shall be

taken under the Aadhaar card and/or Aadhaar number issued to the

private respondent no. 8 by the private respondent no. 8 nor shall it be

relied upon by any statutory authority or public authority or institution

or the civil court for any purpose whatsoever. 44. Except that no dispute was raised to any document relied upon by

the writ petitioner and that the decision of the respondent no. 6 as

referred to in paragraph 10 of this judgment was not challenged by the

private respondent and the conduct of the private respondent no.8 as in

paragraph 41 of this judgment, nothing has been decided on facts and

the respondent no. 2 is free to decide the questions under Regulations 27

and 28 which arise before him under Regulation 29 of the said

Regulations. This does not mean that the complaint before the police or

the respondent no. 6 shall depend upon the decision of the respondent

no. 2. That he must do by order of this court since it would lead to an

investigation and not necessarily punishment.All other questions are left

to be decided by the appropriate authorities. 45. The writ petition is disposed of accordingly. There shall be no

order as to costs. PROTIK PRAKASH BANERJEE, J.