By Vidyut Kale and Nikhil Pahwa

Software that is used to enroll individuals for Aadhaar, or update their information has been hacked and is being sold for Rs 500-2000, Asia Times reports .

Aadhaar enrollment operators use a software provided by the UIDAI, called ECMP (Enrollment Client Multi Platform), to collect or update an individuals information in the Aadhaar database. The UIDAI has claimed in the Supreme Court that it is extremely secure, to the point that not even the enrollment operators have access to the biometrics collected by the software.

The Asia Times report highlights the following issues, about how the softwares security measures have been bypassed, which it has confirmed with two unnamed cyber security experts:

The core issue here is that given that the enrollment process has been compromised, and there are no means of checking the accuracy and the efficacy of the Aadhaar data, the data in the Aadhaar database is thus likely to be unreliable. More on that here .

WhatsApp groups of former Aadhaar operators have this software for sale for as little as Rs. 500 to 2000 a copy. Note that contracts of private Aadhaar operators, which the UIDAI had recruited , and who had invested significantly in the business, were terminated earlier this year . UIDAI did not have proper mechanisms to handle the misuse of the access . Instead of private enrollment operators, the UIDAI has now delegated the task to banks and post offices . That process has been slow to take off: the need for enrolment or updation appears to have outstripped the available legitimate . The mandatory requirement of Aadhaar to access an increasing number of essential services and schemes is likely to create a market for “agents” to get it done.

It also appears that the UIDAI has ignored complaints about the sale of this illegal software. According to the Asia Times report, an operator from Punjab, Bharat Bhushan Gupta, had alerted the UIDAI by email. The emails were acknowledged, but there has apparently been no response since. A journalist in Punjab found the cracked software and alerted the UIDAI and also received an acknowledgment, but there was apparently no further action. The NCIIPC also alerted the UIDAI about this breach, it appears, from the questions at the end of the Asia Times article.

In the past, the UIDAI has filed police complaints against journalists and researchers reporting such issues: It had filed an FIR against the Tribune and its journalist Rachna Khaira for illegal access to the Aadhaar database being sold for Rs 500. Khaira’s informant (also an ex-enrolment operator) was not taken seriously when he had reported sale of access to the database being sold on Whatsapp groups.

With this latest report of UIDAI’s enrolment software being cracked, as well as its ongoing claims about security, we’d like to repeat some questions about UIDAI’s claims.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event