The Reserve bank of India has finally issued revised guidelines on for prepaid payment instruments (PPI) and said that they will be interoperable. Here are some the broad changes in the wallet guidelines.

All companies which are trying to get a wallet licence have to have a minimum net worth of Rs 5 crore which needs to be maintained for three years at all times, following which they need to have a net worth of Rs 15 crore at all times. Existing wallet companies need to maintain Rs 15 crore by March 31, 2020, following which they need to maintain the net worth at all times.

The draft guidelines stated that wallet companies will have to have a minimum net worth of  Rs 25 crore, a sharp turn from the earlier regulatory norms for wallets included a minimum paid-up capital needed of Rs 5 crore and a minimum net worth of Rs 1 crore.

The net worth will consist of: -Paid up equity capital -Preference shares which are compulsorily convertible into equity capital -Free reserves -Balance in share premium account – Capital reserves which will include surplus arising out of sale proceeds of assets. This will not include reserves created by revaluation of assets which are adjusted for accumulated loss balance, book value of intangible assets and deferred revenue.

The RBI said that Know Your Customer (KYC), Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Combating Financing of Terrorism (CFT) guidelines will apply to wallets.  Provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules will be applicable to all wallet issuers.

Here’s some good news from the RBI. Interoperability will be allowed but only for KYC compliant wallets. The RBI is proposing that it will allow interoperability in phases.

Wallet players will have to take an undertaking form e-commerce marketplaces and payment aggregators or gateways that payments made by them will be used for paying merchants. This undertaking and list shall be submitted to the escrow bank.

Wallet issuers will have to submit the list of merchants acquired by it to the escrow bank and update the same from time to time.

PPI issuers shall review the security measures on:

The RBI has also prescribed many of the measures the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) said in its consultation paper for developing a framework for security of digital wallets . These include mechanisms such as customer induced transaction caps on their wallets, restriction of multiple invalid attempts to sign-in, and a cooling period for funds transfer after opening a wallet to prevent fraudulent use of the account.

Anti-phishing:  Wallet issuers shall subscribe to anti-phishing / anti-rouge app services from external service providers for identifying and taking down phishing websites/rouge applications in the wake of increase of rogue mobile apps/phishing attacks.

To further prevent phishing, the RBI also prescribed some additional norms.

All wallets shall have a minimum validity period of one year from the date of activation or issuance to the customer. Issuers will have to caution customers at regular intervals 45 days prior to expiry of validity period. The caution advice shall be sent by SMS/e-mail/post. Even after the expiry of validity period, grace period of at least 60 days shall be given to the customer.

But more importantly, the wallets with zero balance for a consecutive period of one year shall be closed automatically by the issuers, and a notice sent to the customers. This will have a significant impact on the number of wallets companies claim that they have on their platform. Many wallets lie dormant as people download the application once and don’t use them. At the time wallet companies create a PPI but many users would uninstall the application later.

***

Also, read:

– RBI dangles wallet interoperability but prescribes tougher norms for companies

– Wallets aren’t on UPI because banks needed time to catch up – NPCI MD & CEO AP Hota

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event