Highlighting the problem of misleading advertisements by Ed-Tech companies in India, Lok Sabha member Karti P Chidambaram has urged the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), through its Consumer Complaints Council, to take note of the consumer complaints regarding “mis-selling” and “hard-selling” of courses.

In a letter to the ASCI Chairman Mr. N.S Rajan on January 27, Chidambaram stated that Ed-Tech majors pitch “false promises” of an aspirational future to “unsuspecting parents”. Their “overactive marketing machines” exploit “parental guilt” through their sales pitch of providing a “bright future”.

https://twitter.com/KartiPC/status/1618933658563510274

He adds that parents are forced to think that they will be denying new opportunities to their children if they do not enrol for the Ed-Tech courses. The ASCI in its latest guidelines had also taken note of this practice by Ed-Tech majors. Additionally, Chidambaram also pointed out the much-discussed issue of personal data used by companies for targeted selling. In the absence of a data protection law, this raises concerns of protecting children from “predatory data practices”.

Why it matters:

Ed-Tech companies have been in the news for their unethical business operations for a long time now. While the government has paid little attention to these serious issues, it has been collaborating with private Ed-Tech majors for public education schemes. At a time when very few are raising this issue in the parliament, it is important to highlight the criticisms that bring to the fore unaddressed questions in the private online education sector.

Here are the other issues noted in the letter:

Chidambaram has also stated that the Indian EdTech Consortium has not “diligently enforced its own Code of Conduct”, particularly on advertising. In the past, he had expressed doubts about the self-regulatory approach for Ed-Tech companies. In his latest letter, he has also urged the ASCI to act on this issue and “summon companies” that mislead people through ads and issue clear guidelines to prevent harmful consequences on parents and children.

Karti Chidambaram has consistently raised the issue of Ed-Tech companies and their practices in India. A MediaNama interview with the Member of Parliament on this issue is coming soon. Keep watching this space for updates.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event