1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The Plaintiff, in the present suit, posted a tweet on her social media
 handle 'X' (formerly known as Twitter) which was a comment about an
 interview of a public political figure. It is the case of the Plaintiff that she
 had tweeted anonymously from her 'X' handle. However, considering the
 political figure involved in her tweet, various posts and tweets appeared on
 multiple Twitter handles, the identities of whom is not available at this
 point, wherein comments were made against the Plaintiff. In some of the
 said tweets her entire professional identity, photographs, image was also
 disclosed and an email was written to her employer. 3. It is averred by the Plaintiff that the present case is the one of
 `Doxing', wherein the various Defendants have searched for and published
 private information about the Plaintiff on the internet with malicious intent. 4. It is submitted on behalf of the Plaintiff by Mr. Awasthi, ld. Counsel,
 that the Petitioner had not tweeted against the public political figure but
 against the person who had written a tweet i.e., Squint Neon-Defendant
 No.1. Further, ld. Counsel also relies on the judgement of Swami Ramdev v.
 Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. (MANU/DE/3565/2018) and Justice
 K.S. Puttuswamy (Retd.) v. Union of India (MANU/SC/1044/2017) to
 highlight the issue in the present case and to state that every individual
 should have a right to be able to exercise control over his/her own life and
 image as portrayed to the world and to control commercial use of his/her
 identity. This also means that an individual may be permitted to prevent
 others from using her image, name and other aspects of her personal life and
 identity for commercial purposes without consent. 5. The said tweet was posted on 17th January, 2024 and the subsequent
 objectionable tweets were posted immediately thereafter i.e., on 18th
 January, 2024, 19th January, 2024, etc. It is submitted on behalf of the
 Plaintiff that she is a professional person working abroad and she does not
 wish to be trolled and the manner in which a malicious campaign has been
 launched against her on online platforms is leading to enormous harassment
 and embarrassment in her professional and personal life. 6. On the last date, i.e., 20th February, 2024, notice was issued to
 Platform 'X' (formerly known as Twitter). Mr. Deepak Gogia, ld. Counsel
 appears and submits that there are six objectionable tweets as per the
 Plaintiff out of which five could be removed and the Basic Subscriber Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 134/2024 Page 2 of 7 By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:01.03.2024 20:57 Information (hereinafter, 'BSI') details could be disclosed. However, one of
 the tweet at page 6 cannot be held to be objectionable and, thus, no order
 deserves to be passed. 7. Insofar as e-mail dated 19th January, 2024 is concerned, the same is a
 Gmail address and the Plaintiff seeks banning of the Gmail address itself. 8. Having seen the record, it emanates that the first tweet by the Plaintiff
 is, in fact, not an anonymous tweet. It bears the same initials as her name
 and her photograph has also been posted as the display picture of her Twitter
 handle as confirmed by the counsel. Thus, the Plaintiff's presumption this
 was an anonymous tweet would be incorrect. 9. The Plaintiff's Counsel submits that the Plaintiff does not wish to post
 any such tweets and she has already taken down the original tweet which led
 to these turn of events. It is submitted on Plaintiff's behalf that the said
 tweet was merely an attempt against Defendant No.1, though, the language
 seems to suggest otherwise. On her behalf it is submitted that she expresses
 regret for the said initial tweet. 10. The Plaintiff is clearly a professional person against whom various
 comments are being made on the internet which are offensive, defamatory
 and derogatory. Though the initial tweet of the Plaintiff may have been the
 cause, considering her professional and personal standing, this Court is of
 the opinion that the offending tweets, at this stage, ought to be removed
 inasmuch as harm could be caused to her reputation and her person. In the
 opinion of this Court, the present case does not fully constitute a suit against
 `Doxing' as the identity of the Plaintiff was not completely anonymous, as
 anyone who knew the Plaintiff could have easily figured that the tweet was
 by her, due to her initials and her photograph in the tweet posted by her. That is not to say that the Plaintiff can be harassed or trolled on the internet
 in a manner so as to cause her harassment or embarrassment especially, by
 writing to her employer etc. 11. There can be no doubt that acts of Doxing if permitted to go on
 unchecked could result in violation of right to privacy. It is observed that
 Doxing hasn't been defined in the Indian legal landscape, nor has it been
 made a statutory offence in India. The term 'Doxing' comes from the phrase
 'dropping documents' or 'dropping dox' on someone, which appears to have
 originated in 1990s, that involved uncovering and revealing the identity of
 people who fostered anonymity.1It is further observed that even if doxing is
 not used as a tool for sexual harassment, these factors also contribute to the
 harms of having personal information revealed on the Internet as there is
 disclosure/ public release of an individual's private, sensitive, personal
 information. The omnipresent nature of the internet, coupled with easy
 access to technology has ensured that a person's real and virtual lives are
 merged. Consequently, whatever happens online has very real life i.e.,
 offline repercussions for a subject. The internet affords a comparatively
 large audience, thereby statistically increasing the chances of any violence
 occuring in response to Doxing, and so when a subject's information is
 floated on air for the entire world to peruse, especially in certain serious
 situations threats and violent calls may crop up from any part of the world.
 Doxing is different from other forms of cyber-bullying and cyber-
 harassment, as the risk of putting the subject in physical danger increases
 exponentially. When a potential offender gets hold of the subject's personal 1 Honan, M. (2014). What is doxing? Wired. http://www.wired.com/2014/03/doxing/. information, such as where she lives, it becomes easier for him to translate
 online threats into real life violence. On the other hand, however, any
 information which is openly available or accessible is used for legitimate
 purposes, there can be no complaint. Thus, the Court has to strike a delicate
 balance between access to open information and safeguarding of privacy. 12. Be that as it may, aggrieved parties/ individuals in cases of Doxing
 cannot be rendered remedy-less, because the individual would have suffered
 an injury as the privacy of the individual is breached. The dearth of literature
 on this subject in the Indian Context does not prevent this Court from
 resorting to the law of torts to balance the scales of justice as also to provide
 reliefs under the laws of privacy in terms of the judgement of K.S.
 Puttaswamy v. Union of India , [(2017) 10 SCC 1] and R. Rajagopal v.
 State of T.N., [(1994) 6 SCC 632]. 13. In the present case, since the Plaintiff's posts are stated to have been
 taken down it would suffice to direct that the five URLs (attached as
 Annexure 1) be taken down by platform 'X'-Defendant No.9. In addition,
 Defendant No.9 i.e., 'X' shall reveal the basic subscriber information of the
 alleged tweets of Defendant Nos. 1 to 7 to the Plaintiff within one week. 14. Defendant No.10 i.e., 'Google LLC' shall reveal, within one week,
 the details of Defendant No.8 in whose favour the said Gmail address is
 registered. The information disclosed shall be used only for the purpose of
 legal proceedings. 15. The said offending tweets shall be taken down within 72 hours in
 terms of the intermediary guidelines. 16. For the disclosure of the BSI by 'X' and disclosure by Google LLC
 one week time is granted. Upon the disclosure being made, the Plaintiff is
 permitted to take steps in accordance with law. 17. Upon receiving the requisite information from Defendant Nos. 9 and
 10, the Plaintiff shall implead the said parties. Ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff
 to file a fresh amended memo of parties. Upon amended memo of parties
 being filed summons to the parties impleaded, be issued. 18. I.A. 4000/2024 is, accordingly, disposed of in the above terms. 19. List before the Joint Registrar on 29th April, 2024. 20. List before Court on 20th August, 2024. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. FEBRUARY 22, 2024
 dj/bh

 (corrected & released on 1st March, 2024) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 134/2024 Page 6 of 7 By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:01.03.2024 20:57 Annexure -1 -List of URLs Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 134/2024 Page 7 of 7 By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:01.03.2024 20:57