1. The present revision has been preferred praying for quashing the

 proceeding being G.R. Case No. 1306 of 2017 arising out of Cyber Police

 Station, Kolkata Case no. 93 of 2017, dated 20.07.2017, under Section

 67 of The Information Technology Act, 2000 read with Sections

 354A(1)(iv) / 354D(1) / 506 / 509 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 pending

 before the Court of Learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate at Kolkata. 2. The petitioner's case is that the petitioner presently serves at the West

 Bengal State Electricity Board under the Government of West Bengal as

 Superintendent Engineer, West Bengal State Electricity Distribution

 Company Ltd. and is a public servant. 3. The de-facto complaint is the president of the West Bengal State

 Committee of leftist political students' wing namely the students'

 Federation of India which is affiliated to the erstwhile ruling party of the

 State of West Bengal namely the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The

 complainant has alleged that the petitioner has abused her by attacking

 her integrity and political ideology vide face book messenger. 4. It is the case of the petitioner that the offences that has been alleged

 against the petitioner suffers from lack of ingredients and does not come

 within the purview and ambit of the said Penal Sections and as such the

 instant proceeding grounded upon vague, preposterous and concocted

 complaint is liable to be quashed. 5. It is further submitted that the instant proceeding is liable to be quashed

 as it suffers from distorted, concocted facts which are possible outcome

 of political vendetta and politically and/or personally motivated

 vengeance and as the basic ingredient of Sec. 67 of Information

 Technology Act, 2000 is missing. 6. Mr. Ujjwal Datta, Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted

 that the certificate issued under Sec. 65B of the Indian Evidence

 Act, 1872 suffers from irregularities as it only certifies the KYC

 details of the petitioner as disclosed by the BSNL and the number

 was forcefully and/or wrongfully obtained even though such showing

 of KYC does not ever conclude that the alleged offences were

 committed by the petitioner and no report regarding the veracity of

 conversations has been attached in the Charge Sheet which should have

 been obtained from facebook.inc by the police authorities and the said

 certificates also fails to comply with the other conditions as mentioned in

 section itself. Hence the proceeding is liable to be quashed in limine. 7. It is further submitted that only the certificate under Section 65B is not

 sufficient as it merely deals with admissibility and does not guarantee

 the truthfulness and/or genuineness of the content of the document. 8. Hence it is prayed that the instant proceeding should be quashed. 9. The following judgments have been relied upon by the petitioners:- B. Lalita Kumari vs Government of Uttar Pradesh , (2014) 2 SCC

 1, relying upon which it is submitted:- C. Anvar P.V. vs P.K. Basheer and Ors. , AIR 2015 SC 180,

 relying upon which it is submitted:- D. Ram Narain vs Mool Chand , AIR 1960 ALL 296, relying upon

 which it is submitted:- E. Mohan Goswami vs State of Uttaranchal , AIR 2008 SC 251,

 relying upon which it is submitted:- F. Babubhai vs State of Gujarat and Ors. , (2011) 1 SCC (Cri)

 336, relying upon which it is submitted:- G. Dilwar vs State of Haryana , 2018 (16) SCC Page 521, relying

 upon which it is submitted:- H. Directorate General of Doordarshan & Ors. vs Anand

 Patwardhan and Ors. , JT 2006(8)SC 255, and Regina vs

 Hicklins, 1868-3 QB 360, relying upon which it is submitted:- I. M/s Jaimin Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. vs State of Maharashtra,

 Criminal Revision No. 432 of 2015, relying upon which it is

 submitted:- J. Arjun Panditrao Khotkar vs Kailash Kushanrao Govantyal

 and Ors. , (2020) 7 SCC 1, relying upon which it is submitted:- and "contents" of electronic records being proved
 once admissible into evidence. Section 65B
 differentiates between the original information
 contained in the "computer" itself and copies
 made therefrom the former being primary
 evidence, and the latter being secondary
 evidence." 10. Mr. Upendra Roy, learned counsel for the Opposite party No. 2 has

 submitted that there is sufficient materials/evidence against the

 petitioner and as such the case should be allowed to proceed towards

 trial and the revision is thus liable to be dismissed. 11. Mr. Madhusudan Sur, learned counsel for the State has placed the

 case diary. 12. From the materials and the case diary in the present case it is seen that,

 in the charge sheet the following findings/prima facie evidence is on

 record:- 13. The complainant has given her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. 14. Section 354A (1) (iv) of the Indian Penal Code, lays down:- ...................................." 15. Section 354D (1) (i) of the Indian Penal Code, lays down:- 16. Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code, lays down:- 17. Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code, lays down:- 18. The copies of messages on record and the contents there in show that

 the ingredients required to constitute the offence alleged are prima facie

 on record, sufficient to proceed towards trial. 19. Further the contentions of the petitioner relying upon the judgments of

 the Apex Court are matters to be considered on trial as prima facie, there

 has been compliance of the relevant provisions under the law during 11 investigation and there is sufficient materials to proceed against the

 petitioner for the offence alleged towards trial. 20. All these evidence collected by the investigating officer make out a prima

 facie case against the petitioner of the offences alleged and sufficient to

 proceed towards trial and this is not a fit case where the inherent powers

 of this court should exercised. 21. CRR 1962 of 2019 is dismissed. 22. There will be no order as to costs. 23. All connected Applications stand disposed of. 24. Interim order if any stands vacated. 25. Copy of this judgment be sent to the learned Trial Court forthwith for

 necessary compliance. 26. Urgent certified website copy of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied

 expeditiously after complying with all, necessary legal formalities. (Shampa Dutt (Paul), J.)