CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal NO. 3458 of
1990. Appeal by certificate from the Judgment and Order dated
24.5.1990 of the Delhi High Court in I.T.R. No. 110 of 1987. F.S. Nariman, Srinivasan, Bishamber Lal Khanna, Harsh
Salve,	Subhash Sharma,	 D.N. Sawhney, Ms. Geetanjali Mohan
and Vineet Kumar for the Appellant. S.C. Manchanda, Ms. A. Subhashini and B.B. Ahuja	 for
the Respondents. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
 RANGANATHAN, J. This is an appeal preferred by	M/S.
Continental Construction Ltd.	 (hereinafter called	`the
assessee') from the judgment of the Delhi High Court in
I.T.R.	110 to 112 of 1987 (reported in 1990-185 I.T.R.178)
answering, against the assessee, the following questions of
law referred to it under section 256 of the Income Tax	Act,
1961 (`the Act') : 4."Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of
	 the case, the Tribunal is right in holding that the
	 assessee company is not an `industrial company' as
	 defined in the Finance Act, 1982 ?" Deductions in respect of certain incomes", no	part
	 of the consideration or of the income comprised in
	 the consideration payable to the assessee for	 the
	 execution of	a foreign project referred to in
	 clause	 (a) of sub-section (1) or of any	work
	 referred to in clause (b) of that sub-section shall
	 qualify for deduction for any assessment year under
	 any such other provision." .lm
 The three	 questions which are now for consideration
before	us raise the issue whether the assessee is entitled
to a deduction under section 80-O or section 80-HHB or
partly	under one and partly under the	 other	or, indeed,
under neither of the provisions. We shall now	 proceed to
set out the factual background in which the issues arise. The assessee is a civil	construction company which
describes itself as Engineers and Contractors. It	 has
executed a large number of projects overseas and in India,
its projects include dams, irrigation and hydel projects,
water supply and sewerage plants, marine and harbour works,
airports etc. The assessee entered into eight contracts for
the construction, inter alia, of a	dam and irrigation
project	 in Libya, a fibre-board factory at Abu	 Sukhair in
Iraq and the huge Karkh Water Supply Project n Baghdad which
was of the total values of 534 million dollars. For these
contracts the assessee obtained the approval of the Central
Board of Direct Taxes (Board' or `C.B.D.T.') in terms of section	 80-O .	A broad outline of these projects can be
gathered from the following table : Dam		 -yan Arab Jamahiriya,	 ment years 1978- 3.Ammara 15.3.78 State Contracting Co. 22.2.79 "Assessment years
 Project	 for Water and Sewerage	 1979-80 to
		 Projects, Ministry of	 1982-83" 4.Nassir- 14.12.78 Ministry of Housing & 7.2.80 "Assessment years
 iyah		 Construcion, Govt of		1980-81 and onw- Project	 Iraq				 ards" 5.Sulaim- 10.10.79 Ministry of Housing & 31.5.80	"Assessment years
 aniyah	 Construction, Govt of		 1980-81 and onw- Project	 Iraq				 ards". 6.West Bank 12.4.80 Baghadad Sewerage Board 23.7.80	"Assessment years
 Project	 Construction, Govt of		 1980-81 and onw- Administration, Govt.		 For the subseque- In	 the light of these approvals, the assessee claimed
and obtained deduction under section 80-O in respect of the
receipts from the first six of the contracts in some of	 the
assessment years between 1976-77 to 1980-81. For the assessment year 1983-84, the assessee returned
a gross total income or Rs. 72,67,45,938 but,	 as against
this, it claimed a deduction of Rs. 89,16,19,198 in respect
of seven of the above contracts, the	 eight	having	been
completed much earlier. Of this, the deduction claimed in
respect	 of the Karkh and Diwaniyah projects came to	 Rs.
77,84,29,446 and Rs. 6,36,85,436 respectively.	 As pointed
out above, the letter of approval of the Board under section
80-O in respect of these two contracts dated 28.10.83	 was
limited	 to the assessment year 1982-83. The Inspecting
Assistant Commissioner	 (I.A.C.), Sri	 Hari Narain,	 who
completed the assessment on 26.3.1984 declined to grant	 the
assessee any deduction under section	 80-O not only in
respect	 of these two contracts but also in respect of	 the
other five. He was of opinion that it was section 80-HHB that applied to these agreements and	 not section 80-O .
However, he declined to grant any relief to the assessee
even under section 80-HHB as the conditions for exemption
specified in that sub-section were not fulfilled. In	 the
result,	 he determined the assessee's total income at	 Rs.
89,41,35,103 as against the NIL income returned by	 the
assessee, thus raising a tax demand of Rs. 66,07,72,982. On	 appeal, the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)
gave the assessee partial relief. He agreed with the	 IAC
that the assessee was not entitled to relief under section
80-O because : (1) the approval of the CBDT for three of
the contracts did not extend to assessment year 1983-84; (2)
all the contracts undertaken by the assessee were in	 the
nature	of `foreign projects' within the maning of section
80-HHB ; and (3) even where the contracts had the approval of
the CBDT the non-obstante provisions of section 80-HHB	 (5) ruled out the grant of relief under section 80-O for any of
the projects.	 He however, felt that as the assessee	 had
been under a	bonafide belief all through that it	 was
entitled to relief under section 80-O , it had	 not had a
proper	opportunity of putting forth its claim	 for relief
under section	80 HHB. He,	therefore, set	 aside	 the
assessment to enable both sides to marshall their evidence
and to enable the IAC to reappraise the assessee's claim for
exemption under that section.	 The order of the CIT	 was
dated 26.3.85. The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)	agreed	with
the CIT. Its conclusion, set out succinctly in para 48	 of
its order was thus : It	 may be mentioned here that, before the	 appeal	 was
heard by the ITAT, the CBDT on a representation made by	 the
assessee and after some enquiry and correspondence, issued
on 31.7.85 a	letter	modifying the	original letter of
approval of 28.10.83 in respect of the Karkh and Diwaniyah
contracts. By this	 letter, the CBDT directed	 the
substitution of the following words in place of the	word
quoted in the last column of the table set out earlier: In other words, the CBDT lifted its earlier limitation
of approval only to assessment year 1982-83 and made it
operative even for subsequent assessment years. There	 has
been some criticism,	on behalf of the assessee, of	 the
manner	in which the Department has sought to get over	 the
effect	of modification letter attributing it to	some
misunderstanding or confusion. One	of the	 assessee's
principal grievances is that the ITAT has erred in accepting
this explanation, treating the approval of 28.10.1983 as a
qualified one and ignoring the letter of 31.7.85. We shall
discuss this aspect later. The ITAT, at the request of the assessee, referred	 the
four questions of law which we have set out earlier for	 the
decision of the High Court. The High Court came to	 the
conclusion that the receipts of the	 assessee from	 the
contracts did not fall within the category of receipts	 for
which deduction is provided in section 80-O . It was of	 the
view that the Board's approval was a qualified one which
fully	authorised and empowered the officer to determine
whether all the conditions of the section are fullfilled as
well as the amount, if any, which could be deducted under section	 80-O .	The Court also came to the conclusion	that
the execution of the work by the assessee, in	the present
case, fall under section 80 HHB and not section 80-O .	 In
the result, questions	 1 to 3 were answered	against	 the
assessee and in favour of the Revenue.	 The assessee,	has,
therefore, preferred these appeals. As	 pointed out earlier,	 the assessee's claim	 for
deduction relates to seven contracts and depends on	 the
terms and conditions of each one of them. However,	 the
Karkh Water Supply scheme contracts has been taken as the 77 model or specimen for purposes of discussion both because
the terms and conditions of all the contracts are more or
less similar and also because the deduction	 claimed in
respect of this contract constitutes an overwhelmingly	high
percentage of the assessee's total claim. We	shall also,
therefore, proceed to discuss the issues raised in the light
of the	 terms	and conditions of this contract and	 the
approval given therefor. Before doing so, we would like to
point out that for the assessment year 1983-84 with which we
are concerned,	 a discussion of the relative	 spheres of section 80-HHB and section 80-O would be called for and	 the
assessee may get full or partial relief under either or
neither	 of the sections for the said assessment year;	 but
if, in	 the process, we come to the conclusion that	 the
provisions of section 80-O can have no application to	 the
contracts in question, such conclusion is bound to	have
repercussion also on the deductions claimed by, and allowed
to, the assessee under that section in the earlier years in
respect of some of the contracts. The Baghdad Water Supply Administration (BWSA) invited
tenders	 from 'experienced engineering consortia" to submit
tenders	 "for the design, manufacture, delivery, supply,
construction and installation, complete under a single
contract of the works required" for the first stage of	 the
Karkh Water Supply Scheme. The works comprised 'a River
intake	and pumping station on the west bank of the River
Tigris	about 30 kms. north of Baghdad; raw water pumping
through	 twin 1800 mm diameter pumping mains to a nearby
treatment works; treatment comprising essentially	pre-
settlement, clarification and chemical	 coagulation, rapid
gravity	 sand filtration and disinfection with chlorine: The value of the package of the assessee was ID	 152,956,253
(75% of which was payable in the said foreign exchange). On	 3rd March, 1981, the assessee applied to the	CBDT
for according approval to the contract "for the supply of
civil construction know-how to the Government of Iraq" under section	 80-O of the Act. A proforma	 prescribed by	 the
Revenue was filled up and enclosed to the application.	Para
5 to 11 of this proforma run as follows : dustrial, commercial or sci- entific knowledge, experi- ence, or skill made available	 Yes (b) technical services rendered	 Techincal services will be
 or agreed to be rendered outside	 rendered by us to Baghadad
 India (Please also state the arr-	 Water Supply Administration,
 angements availabe with the appli-	 Government of Iraq in accord-
 cant for rendering such technical	 ance with the said agreement
 services and the mode of tendering	 dated 17.12.80. The technical
 such services).			 know-how and services will be
					 rendered by us through our qu- alified experienced and skilled
					 Engineers, Scientists and Tech- nicians, for that purpose, a
					 strength or about 1,800 Indian
					 Engineers, Tecnicians and semi- skilled labours will be inducted. 6.Does the Agreement provide for	 The agreement also provides for
 supply of technical know-how or	 the supply use of goods as per
 rendering of any services other	 details given below : 7.If technical know-how falls	Not applicable.
 under 5(a)(i) above, please
 indicate. (a) how the applicant acquired	Not applicable.
	 it or what arrangements he
	 has made for acquiring it (b) What are the applicant's own	 Not applicable.
	 rights in respect thereof (c) Whether its provision to the
	 other party to the agreement
	 involves :- it, if so, please specify the
	 nature and extent of the right
	 transferred and the manner of
	 its transfer : imparted and the manner of its imp- arting; (iii)its use by the other person to the
	 agreement if so, please specify the
	 nature and manner of the use.		 Not applicable. 8.If the technical know-how falls under (a)(ii) above, please specify 80 (a) the arrangements available with the	 we have on our rolls qual
ifed
	 applicant for obtaining and impart-	 Engineers and Technicians
 who
	 ing it					 have already acquired the
 re- quisite scientific knowle
dge,
						 experience and skill for
giv- ing such technical know-h
ow
						 and it is they, who will
be
						 imparting the same to the
						 client by executing the w
orks
						 at the site in Iraq. (b) the manner of imparting it		The Engineers and Technici
ans
						will be working for about 5 years at the site of const
r- uction to impart the techn
ical
						know-how and services on b
e- half of our Company. 9. Has the applicant made any agree- ment or arrangement with any other
 person in India or abroad for obta- ining the technical know-how etc.,		Not applicable.
 to be provided under this agreement
 or for rendering technical services? If so please give the follwing infor- mation : rangement together with a cer-	Not applicable.
	 tified copy of the written
	 agreement, if any. (iii)the nature, and extent of appli- cant's relationship association	 Not applicable.
	 with such other person. 10. Please state the nature of the income	 Income out of imparting c
ivil
 in respect of which deducation is claimed,	 construction know-how and
 viz..,					 services for the connstru
c- tion of work of Karkh Wat
er
						 Supply Scheme, Baghdad. Royalty
Commissin
Fees 81 Any similar payment 11. Please indicate the portion/amount
(alongwith its computation) which is	 Please see our reply under
eligible for deduction under section	 S. No. 6 of this form.
80-O of the Act. On	 9.7.81, the C.B.D.T. called upon the	 assessee to
clarify four aspects of its application : (i) the details or
the materials and equipment to be supplied by the assessee
under the contract and the quantum of profit thereon; (ii)
whether	 any engineers, scientists and technicians	were
recruited in India and there was any fee attributable to
such services	; (iii) whether any tests on materials	 and
workmanship were carried out in India and there was any	 fee
attributable to such tests; and (iv) the break-up of the fee
relating to the supply of information/know-how and rendering
of the	 technical services. The assessee answered in	 the
following terms on 4.8.1981 : As such the question of any separate quantum of
	 profit on the same does not arise. As	 the
	 material	is purchased locally in Iraq, there
	 is no possibility or making any profit on its
	 consumption in execution of the works. (ii) The qualified experienced skilled	 engineers,
	 scientists and technicians are our employees
	 and sent to Iraq for executing the work under
	 contract.	 We do not avail of the	 service of
	 any agency for the purpose. As such there are
	 no recruitment expenses involved. Consequently
	 no fee can be attributed on the	transfer of
	 our workers to foreign country. (iii)No tests will ever be taken in India because
	 all	 works will	be executed in	 Iraq.	 The
	 question of attributing any fees to such	test
	 in India,	therefore, does not arise. These
	 tests	are	part of the process undertaken to
	 render	 technical know-how
	 (Vi) The profits which will accrue to our Company
	 will be	the gross contracts receipts	less
	 expenses incurred in supplying technical know-
	 how and execution of the works, It is 82 estimated that this will be about 25% of	 the
	 contract value. The exact amount may vary	 and
	 will be known only after the works have	been
	 completed." There was further correspondence, discussion	 and
hearing	 including a detailed letter of the assessee dated
24.12.1981 and clarificatory	 letters dated	 15.2.1982,
17.3.1982, 9.10.1982, some of the contents of which may have
to be referred to later. Eventually, the C.B.D.T. accorded
its approval to the agreements, as already maintained, on
28.10.1983. The letter of approval has to be extracted
here. It runs : It	 may be mentioned that even while the assessee's
applications for approval to the Kharkh & Diwaniya contracts
were pending, the Finance Act, 1982 had amended the Act to
insert section 80-HHB with effect from 1.4.1983. This amendment compelled the assessee to send a letter
to the	 C.B.D.T. on 9.10.82	explaining that this	 new
provision would not stand in the way	 of approval being
accorded to its contracts under section 80-O .	But despite
the pleas in this letter the C.B.D.T., in para 1 of	 its
letter of approval of 28.10.1983 restricted the approval to
assessment year 1982-83. The assessee, therefore, wrote
again in detail on 2.12.1983, urging the Board that	 the
reference to section 80-HHB in the letter of approval	 was
uncalled for and that the approval granted should be	made
valid for the entire duration of the contract.	The material
on record shows that this letter was the subject of careful
consideration by the	C.B.D.T. which	 finally issued a
clarification in the following terms on 31.7.1985, more than
a year and a half later : It	 appears that though the above	 intimation to	 the
assessee was cryptic, the CBDT had decided to	 extend	 the
period	of operativeness of its approval under section	80-O only after consulting the Attorney General of India (A.G.).
The CBDT had circulated the opinion of the A.G. in this case
along with the statement of case put up to him for opinion
to all the officers of the Departments. On 14.8.1985,	 the
CIT Central-I), New Delhi wrote a letter to the concerned
member	of the CBDT which makes interesting reading. We do
not wish to extract, or comment on, the contents of	this
letter here. Suffice 84 it to say that the writer of the letter was of opinion	that
the CBDT should not have reviewed the decision taken by it
on 28.10.83. He stated that, on the strength of the CBDT's
letter	dated 31.7.85,	 the assessee	was claiming	100%
exemption and requested that "clear instructions" should be
issued	early 'on the complications" pointed	out in	 the
letter;	 Thereupon, a letter. dated 24.9.1985 was addressed
by the Deputy Secretary (FTD), Government of India, (who, at
the time, happened to be Sri Hari Narain, the IAC who	 had
completed the	 assessment on the	assessee) to	 the
C.I.T.(Central), New Delhi to the following effect : Normally,	correspondence of this type would be hardly
relevant for deciding question regarding the construction or
a section in the statute. But, apparently, the	 Department,
before	the Tribunal, relief upon the letter of	 14.9.85 as
superseding the effect of the approval granted on 31.7.85.
The Tribunal,	in its appellate order,	 referred to these
letters. It observed : Learned counsel for the assessee vehemently criticised
the issue of the letter of 'clarification" by	the officer
who had completed the assessment in the case. He urged that
the Tribunal should not have taken into account the contents
of this letter at all and, in any event, could not	have
drawn an 86 inference,	 because of this letter, that the position
was not clear in the mind of the CBDT.	He also pointed	 out
that he had sought for a reference of a "question of law" Of
the High Court on this aspect which the Tribunal (in	 his
submission, unjustifiably) declined on the ground that the
letter had been considered only because it was adopted as an
argument by counsel for the Revenue. One aspect which	 may
need consideration by us is the question how for the issue
of the letter of 14.9.85 affects the assessee's claim	 for
exemption under section 80-O in the present case. There does not seem to	 be much doubt that	 the
provisions of S. 80-HHB apply to the contracts in	 the
present	 case and that, at the worst, the assessee's claim
for exemption under section 80-HHB deserves to be considered
afresh	after giving the assessee an opportunity of being
hard, as directed by the CIT (Appeals) and confirmed by
C.I.T.	and the High Court (see 1990 : 185 ITR 230). It is
possible that, with section 80-HHB and 80-O , as they stand
today,	it might not	make very much	 difference to	 the
assessee whether the relief is granted under the one section
or the other, as they both permit a deduction from the gross
total income, of fifty per cent, of the profits in the	 one
case and of the qualifying receipts in the other. However,
till 1.4.1987, the relief under section 80-HHB was 25% of
the profits whereas the deduction under section 80-O was
100% of the qualifying receipts upto assessment year 1984- 85. Thereafter the latter was reduced to 50%	only w.e.f.
1.6.1987. This has made it very material to decide whether
the assessee is entitled to the deduction under section 80-O and the question that really arises for our consideration is
whether	 the relief under that section is available to	 the
assessee. We	shall first discuss this question only	 the
language of section 80-O without taking into	account	 the
insertion of section 80-HHB or the complication introduced
the case by the approvals of the CBDT referred to earlier. The Department's case, urged with great emphasis	 and
vehemence by Sri B.B. Ahuja, is that a careful	 reading of section	 80-O will show that the deduction provided by	that
section	 is very limited in nature and not available to	 the
assessee. He submits, on the other hand, that this case is
clearly one falling under the terms of section 80-HHB being
a case	 of execution of a "foreign project" as	 defined in
that section.	We shall, however, consider the two aspects
of the argument separately for the fact that the income in
question may qualify for deduction under section 80-HHB does
not necessarily exclude the applicability of the provisions
of section 80-O . It is sufficient to point out that	 the
language of sub-section (5) of section 80-HHB which gives
precedence to a claim under section 80-HHB over one under
any other provision,	itself	necessarily postulates	 the
possibility of the whole or part of 87 the consideration payable to an assessee for the execution
of a foreign project qualifying for deduction under section
80-HHB falling	 for consideration also under any other
provision as well. Sri Ahuja points out that Part C of Ch. VI-A of the Act
Permits	 deductions, from the gross total income of an
assessee, of	various	 "species" of	income,	 which	 are
carefully defined, in section 80H onwards. Sections 80H to 80-JJA , 80QQ , 80RR and 80S permit a deduction in respect of
the "profits and gains" or "profits" derived from various
types of business, undertakings or professions, sections 80K to 80N and 80Q deal with income by way of "dividends"	 and
"interest" falling under certain categories; section 80-P ,
which	grants	 a deduction to cooperative	 societies,
classifies the deductible income into "profits	 and gains" :and section 80T relates to "capital	 gains". In other
words,	the scheme of this Part of Ch. VI-A is to correlate
the deductions to specific heads of income. Section 80-HHB talks of the profits and gains derived from a	business-and
the assessee here is seeking such a deduction - but section
80-O provides	for a	deduction only	 in respect of an
assessee's receipts from a foreign Government or enterprise
by way	 of "royalty,	commission, fees or any similar
payment." Not only this; the section also requires that the
assessee must have derived the receipts falling under	 the
above categories in one of two ways - (i) in consideration for the use outside India of any
	 patent, invention, model, design, secret formula
	 or process	or similar property,	 right	 or
	 information concerning industrial commercial or
	 scientific knowledge,	 experience or	 skill	made
	 available or	 provided or agreed to be	made
	 available or	 provided to such Government	 or
	 enterprise by the assessee; or (ii) in consideration of technical services
	 rendered or	 agreed to be rendered outside
	 India to such		 Government or enterprise by
	 the assessee. According	to learned counsel, the receipts of	 the
present, assessee do not fulfill these requirements. In	 support of the contention that the claim for	 the
assessee, on the facts, 88 is only for a deduction from the profits and	gains of a
business carried on by it and that such a claim is	 not
referable to section 80-O at all. Sri Ahuja first draws our
attention to the treatment accorded to the receipts by	 the
assessee in its books of account as well as the claim	made
in the	 applications filed before the	CBDT.	The balance
sheet of the company for the calendar year 1982 accounts for
"contract receipts" of Rs. 2,332,490,079 and "other receipt" Sri Ahuja	 is, of course, fully	conscious that	 the
decision in Cloth Traders (supra) has since been overruled
by a larger bench of the Court in Distributors (Baroda) P.
Ltd. v. Union , (1985) 155 ITR 120 but he points out -	 and
we agree he is right in this - that the latter decision does
not affect the weight of the above observations.	 We
entirely agree with Sri Ahuja is that the deduction under section	 80-O is in respect of the categories of income
specifically referred to therein and this is an aspect to
which we shall advert later.	But we are unable to agree
with him that there is an antithesis between the categories
of income so	specified and the expression 'profits	 and
gains".	 It is no doubt true that, wherever	the statute
refers	to the "profits and gains" of a business, it has in
mind the income chargeable under the Act under that head -
head "D" specified in section 14 of the Act - but the other
categories of income referred to in the various sections are
not correlated to the headwise classification of section 14 .
It is well known that items of interest, dividends and other
items of remuneration	 are not always referable to	 any
particular head. They may be assessable as "business"
income	or income from other sources.	In particular,	 the
receipts by way of royalty, fee, commissions	and similar
payments may be derived in the course of a	business or
profession and constitute part of the profits and gains of
such business	or profession.	For instance, a consulting
scientist, architect or engineer might provide technical
services to others and receive what is styled as "fees"
from them; the receipts will nevertheless be assessable as
part of the profits and gains from his profession. The mere
fact, therefore, that the assessee is carrying on business
as engineers and contractors and the receipts	in question
flow to it in the course of its business as such will	 not
necessarily preclude relief under section 80-O if they	 can
be brought within the categories of receipts mentioned in
the section.	The material question,	 therefore, is	 not
whether	 the receipts form part of the business	 profits of
the assessee but whether the entire receipts, or any part of
them, can be brought within the qualifying words in section
80-O . To this basic question we shall now turn. Sri Ahuja's point on this aspect is two fold. He first
points	out that the contract does not	 stipulate for	 any
payment	 labelled under one of these categories.	 The
expressions royalty, commission and fees have well-known
connotations and the word "any similar payment", he says,
has to be construed ejusdem generis and the receipts under
the contract answer none of these descriptions. We do	 not
think that the mere	fact that the	 contract does	 not
specifically assign the nomenclature	 mentioned in	 the
section	 to the payments made to the assessee can be
conclusive of the assessee's claim to 91 exemption. That apart, of the four expressions referred to
in the section there are referred to elsewhere in the	 Act.
While `royalty' is generally a consideration paid to	 the
owner of a right or asset - such as copyright patent right,
mining right etc. - for the privilege of using it for one's
own purposes, the other expressions are more comprehensive.
The expressions `royalty' and `technical fees' have	been
defined	 in section 9 .	Though the definitions are only	 for
the purposes of clauses (vi) and (vii) of section	9(1) respectively, they may be set out here. The	 definitions
read thus : clauses (i) to (v). Section 9 (1) (vii) - income by way of fees	 for
	 technical services payable by - xxx		 xxxx xxx
	 Explanation (2) : For the purposes of	this clause,
	 "fees	 for	technical services"	means	 any
	 consideration	 (including	 any	lump	 sum
	 consideration) for the rendering of any managerial,
	 technical or consultancy services (including	 the
	 provision of	 services of technical or other
	 personnel) but does not include consideration	 for
	 any construction, assembly, mining or like project
	 undertaken by the recipient or consideration which
	 would	be income of the recipient chargeable under
	 the head `Salaries'. The word	 `commission' has a	somewhat different
connotation and is used differently in different contexts.
It has been explained by this Court in Gestetner Duplicators
Pvt. Ltd. v.	C.I.T. , (1979) 117 I.T.R. 1 (S.C.) in	 the
context	 of the definition of `salary'. Black's	 Law
dictionary assigns very wide meaning to these expressions : The essence of the exemption lies, not in consigning	 the
receipt to one of these pigeonholes but in examining whether
the receipt is a payment in consideration of one of the	 two
situations envisaged in the section. To illustrate : where
the assessee is the owner of a patent or invention, he	 may
generally permit another to make use of the patent or	 the
invention in consideration of a `royalty' payment.	 Or,
again,	where the assessee is in possession of technical
know-how, he may be prepared to allow another to make	 use
thereof	 in consideration of a `fee' to the assessee.	 He
may also stipulate a	 consideration	in the	 form of a
commission based on the sales of the	products the other
party is able to manufacture with the aid of such invention
or know-how.	Again, an assessee may	have achieved	some
speciality and	 he may agree to lend his services to	some
other person and stipulate a consideration therefore which
may be variously described. The nature of the asset, right,
information or	 services which can be	brought	 under	this
provision may be varied and the considera- tion stipulated for allowing	 another to avail of	 the
assess's asset, knowledge or services can likewise assume
multi-farious forms. The word `similar' connotes that	 the
payment	 made to the assessee need not be in the nature of
royalty, commission or fees only; it could be any payment of
like nature i.e. made in consideration of the use or supply
of such an asset, knowledge or services in the same manner
as royalty, fees or	consideration could be. We	are,
therefore, of the view that any type of payment received by
an assessee will qualify for deduction under the section so
long only as it is a payment made in consideration of one of
the two types of transactions referred to in the section. Sri Ahuja then draws attention to the finding of	 the
Tribunal in para 41 of its order : He	 submits that this is a finding of fact based on an
admission which has not been specifically challenged by	 the
assessee in its application for reference to the High Court
and that it is not open to the assessee to go	behind	this
position at this stage.	 It seems to us that there has	been
some misconception on the part of the Tribunal. There	 are
actually two limbs to the first part of the relevant clause
of the section which are clearly brought out in clolumn 5 of
the application for approval made to the Board. Col.	5(a)
refers	to consideration received for the use outside India (i) of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula
or process or similar property right and (ii) of information
concerning industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge,
experience or	skill made available by the assessee.	 The
second	part of the clause is dealt with in Col. 5(b) which
refers	to consideration for technical services rendered
outside India to the foreign Government or enterprise.	 If,
in this context, we peruse the applications for approval
made by the assessee to the Board, it will be seen that	 the
assessee had no doubt clearly stated	 that the payments
received by it did not come under category (a) (i) above
referred to. It was, however, claimed that they did	fall
under (a) (ii) as well as category (b).	 In the application,
this was further elaborated. The second limb of the first
clause	of the	 section (a) (ii) was, it was claimed,
attracted in the manner set out in Col. 8 and	 the second
part of the section was explained to be attracted set	 out
against	 sub-para (v)	of Col. 5. The Tribunal, in	 the
paragraph referred to by Sri Ahuja refers only to the first
limb of the first part of the section - which we	have
referred to as "(a) (i)" - and has 94 overlooked the presence of the second limb referred to by us
as "(a) (ii)". Sri Ahuja may not, therefore, be quite
correct	 in asserting that the assessee had restricted	 its
claim before the Tribunal only to the ground of "technical
services" rendered by the assessee outside India to	 its
client.	 The assessee's claim rested both on the second limb
of the	 first	part as well as on the second part of	 the
relevant clause. The finding of the Tribunal in this regard
is not one of fact based on an admission as suggested by Sri
Ahuja.	The finding proceeds on an incorrect appreciation of
the contents of the assessee's application for approval.
There is no basis to put forward a contention that, though
in the application to the Board, the assessee	had claimed
relief	on two grounds, it had given up a part of the claim
before	the Tribunal.	The word "Admittedly" used by	 the
Tribunal in the passage relied on by Sri Ahuja does	 not
appear	to refer to any admission over and	 above	that
contained in regard to column 5 (a)(i) of the	 application
for approval.	The question is whether the claim has	been
substantiated under either of these headings. Sri Ahuja	 vehemently argues it	has not been.	 He
submits	 that the assessee has neither made any	 information
available to the foreign client nor has it rendered	 any
technical services to the said client.	He contends that the
contract in favour of the two members of the consortium	 was
in the	 nature of a turnkey project. This meant that	 the
client was not interested in the details of the	 information
possessed or the services rendered by the contractor: all it
wanted	was that the	Water Supply Project,	as per	 the
detailed specifications, designs and drawings furnished by
the BWSA should be executed by the consortium, complete in
all respects, and handed over to it. Sri Ahuja points	 out
by analysing the provisions of the consortium agreement that
the assessee was not concerned with any part of the contract
other than the "civil works". He	says that all	 the
"Reservoir works" which involved the putting	 up of	 the
reservoir structures,	 the	trunk pipelines and	 the
mechanical and	 electrical plant for the project was	 the
responsibility of the SCC and that the assessee had nothing
to do but put up a few buildings and ancillary pipelines.
The assessee was nothing more than an engineering contractor
and, in constructing	 pump-houses or laying sanitary
fittings, he imparted	 no information and rendered	 no
technical services. Such information as it possessed in
these respects	 was utilised by itself and such technical
services, as were rendered by its engineers and other
employees were rendered to it and not to either its partner
in the consortium or to the foreign Government. We	 do not desire to encumber this judgment with a
detailed discussion of the large number of clauses of	 the
contract (tender) document and the consortium agreement.
But it seems to us that while Sri Ahuja seems to be right in
saying	that the assessee was concerned only with the civil
works 95 section	 of the project, he has over simplified the	part
played by the assessee in the execution of the contract. It
is not necessary to quarrel with Sri Ahuja's description of
the contract as a "turn-key project" which, indeed, was	 the
description given to it by the assessee itself - in para 19
of the application to the Board and in para 2 of the letter
dated 17.3.82	- or his consequent suggestion that	 the
foreign government was not interested in. the minute details
or working of the contract but only in the final outcome.
Still the fact is that the contract executed by the assessee
is no ordinary contract. It may be that a good part of	 the
contract was executed by the SCC. But this cannot render
the assessee's part insignificant. If the State enterprise
itself	was a fully expert body capable of completing	 the
entire project on its own, there would have been no need to
call for tenders from experienced consortia. The part of
the contract entrusted to the assessee was therefore no less
significant. The value of the assessee's package in	 the
contract was about ID 153 million as against the total value
of the contract estimated at ID 326 millions - more than 40
per cent. The job of the assessee involved survey,	soil
investigation design, detailed drawings and construction of
all civil works and pipelines (other than trunk	 pipelines).
Even these activities	 involve technical knowledge	 and
expertise. It	 cannot	 therefore, be	 doubted that	 the
assessee, under the contract, had to	 make use, outside
India,	 of its industrial, commercial and	 scientific
knowledge, experience and skill. Sri Ahuja makes the point
that, even if this be so, the assessee made available no
information regarding	 such expertise to the foreign
Government. There is equally no doubt that, in executing
the contract the assessee has rendered technical services.
Any engineering contract involves technical services;	more
so, a contract of the nature and magnitude involved in	 the
present	 case.	 Here again, Sri Ahuja	says, no technical
services were	rendered by the assessee to	the foreign
Government; the assessee only made use of the technical
knowledge, experience	and skill of its own employees to
perform a task undertaken by it. We	 think	the approach of Sri Ahuja on this issue is
narrow	and unrealistic. It would be far from	accurate to
say that no information of a technical nature was imparted
or made available to the foreign Government. It cannot be
forgotten that	 the contract was executed jointly with an
enterprise that was nothing but an instrumentality of	 the
foreign	 state.	 The contract had to be executed in close
coordination with the	 SCC.	Every single step in	 the
contract was done under the supervision of a Consortium
Board and a Project Management Board on which both	 the
partners of the consortium were represented. It would be
unpragmatic to suggest that this close association was	 not
aimed at enabling the foreign state to collect and acquire
such technical knowledge and know-how from the assessee as
could be reasonably acquired in the process of execution of
the project. In our view, there is force 96 in the assessee's contention that it would not be possible
to execute the contract without imparting to	the foreign
state and enterprise information of the category specified
in the	 section. The findings of the Tribunal in	this
regard,	 which have not been challenged by the	 Department,
and are contained in para 42 of the order, are as follows : In our view, neither of the propositions contended	 for
by Sri	 Ahuja can be accepted as correct. So	far as	 the
first proposition is concerned, it is sufficient for us to
point	out that it is a well-settled principle	that
exigibility of an item to tax or tax deduction can hardly be
made to depend on the label given to it by the parties.	 An
assessee cannot claim	 deduction under section 80-O in
respect	 of certain receipts merely on the basis that	they
are described as royalty, fee or commission in the contract
between	 the parties. By the same token, the absence of a
specific label	 cannot be destructive of the right of an
assessee to	claim a deduction, if, in	 fact,	 the
consideration for the receipts can be	 attributed to	 the
sources indicated in the section. The second proposition is
equally	 untenable. Contracts	 of the	 type envisaged by section	 80-O are usually very complex ones and cover a
multitude of obligations and responsibilities.	 It is	 not
always possible or worthwhile for the parties to dissect the
consideration and apportion it to the various ingredients or
elements comprised in the contract. The cases referred to
by the Tribunal and Sri Ahuja as to the indivisibility of a
contract arose	 in an	 entirely different context.	 For
purposes of income-tax, a principle of apportionment	 has
always	been applied in different contexts.	Consolidated
receipts and	 expenses have	 always been	 considered
apportionable in the	contexts : (a) of the	capital	 and
revenue	 constituents comprised in them; (b)	portions of
expenditure attributable to	business and	non-business
purposes; (c)	of places of accrual or arisal; and (d) of
agricultural and non-agricultural elements in such receipts
or payments.	This is a point that does not need	much
elaboration and it is sufficient to refer to decided cases
cited under the passages on this topic at pp. 47, 137,	264,
621 and 677 of Kanga & Palkhivala on the Law and Practice of
Income-tax (Vol. I, Eigth Edition). We are, therefore, of
opinion	 that if, as we have held, the contracts in	 the
present	 case	oblige	the assessee to make available
information and render services to the foreign Government of
the nature outlined in section 80-O , it is the duty of	 the
Revenue	 and the right of the assessee to see that	 the
consideration	paid under the contract	legitimately
attributable to such information and services is apportioned
and the assessee given the	benefit	 of the deduction
available under the	section	 to the extent of	such
consideration. So far, we have looked at the language of section	80-O in isolation. The question to be considered next is whether
the introduction of section 80-HHB 101 has made a difference. On behalf of the Revenue, it is
urged that the facts of the present case squarely fall under
the scope of this new Section.	 The assessee, it is said,
has derived profits	and gains from its business	 of
execution of a foreign project, as defined in clauses (b)(i)
and (ii) of sub-section (2) of the section.	Whether	 the
contract is viewed as one directly entered into by	 the
assessee with	the foreign Government or as involving	 the
execution of work undertaken by it as part of a foreign
project	 undertaken in pursuance of a contract entered	into
by the consortium with the foreign Government, the profits
and gains qualify for deduction under section 80-HHB ,
subject to the conditions and to the extent, outlined in the
section. Even assuming that the whole, or at least a part,
of the	 consideration	payable	 to the assessee for	 the
execution of a foreign project or	work in connection
therewith can	be said also to fall under the terms of section 80-O , the terms of sub-section (5) of section 80-HHB make it clear	 that the assessee would be eligible	 for
deduction under section 80-HHB only	 and cannot claim
deduction under section 80-O in respect of any part of	 the
consideration. Sri Nariman, on behalf of the assessee, seeks to repel
this contention in several ways. He	submitted, firstly,
that since the insertion of section 80-HHB has not resulted
in the deletion of section 80-O , the two sections should be
read harmoniously and given effect to together. This, he
says, can be done by restricting the operation	 of section
80-HHB to contracts entered into on or after	1-4-1983 on
which date that section came into force and so as not to
affect contracts entered into before that date and approved
by the	 Board.	 In this context, it is pointed out	that section	 80-O envisages grant of approval to a contract	 and
once such approval is granted (on whatever date it be)	 the
approval should enure for the entire period of contract and
cannot	be restricted to any particular assessment year or
years. In support of this contention, the	decision in C.I.T.	v. Indian Institute of Public Opinion ,	 (1982)	 134
I.T.R. 2 (Delhi) is relied upon. It is urged that, once the
approval is granted to a contract, Section 80-O becomes
operative in respect of all sums received under the contract
of the nature specified therein. If the applicability of section	 80-HHB is thus restricted, it is submitted,	 the
terms of that section, including sub-section (5) thereof;
cannot	stand in the way of the relief available to	 the
assessee under section 80-O . Secondly, he contends that	 the
definition of "foreign project" in section 80-HHB (2)(b) is
a restrictive one; it covers only the construction of	 the
nature	specified in sub-clause (i) or the assembly	 and
installation of the nature specified in sub-clause (ii),
there being no other prescribed work in terms of sub-clause (iii) and it is only the consideration received for	 the
carrying out of these two activities that is excluded	from
the purview of relief under other sections under Heading `C'
of Ch.	 VI-A.	In other words, it is said, section 80-HHB applies only to con- struction/installation	 activity simpliciter	and not a
"composite" activity.	It is argued that where, as in	 the
present	 case,	the contract envisages, in addition	 to
construction of buildings or other structures	 and
installation of machinery or plant outside	India,	some
further	 acts to be done by the assessee-such as making
available information	on rendering of services to	 the
foreign	 Government or enterprise -	 the consideration
attributable to such action will not forfeit the deduction
otherwise available under section 80-O . Some	significance
is sought to be attached to the use in sub-section (5) of
the words "Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provision under this	Chapter" and not "Notwithstanding
anything done	or any approval granted under any other
provision" as also the use of the word "shall not qualify" He	 sought to contend on the strength of these columns
that a	 part only of the payment derived from	 a contract
submitted for approval under section 80-O may be referable
to section 80-HHB leaving a balance, at least, eligible for
relief	under section 80-O . This is not the purport of	this
para. On the other hand it seems to be clearly intended to
ensure	while granting	 approval under section 80-O in
pursuance of the application that section 80-HHB(5) is given
effect	to and	 no part of the	 payment derived from	 the
execution of such a project is allowed to qualify under section 80-O .
 Sri Ahuja sought to make a further point that even if
the assessee's case falls under section 80-O , assessee	will
be entitled to relief not on the entire profits derived by
the assessee but only to that portion of the receipts as can
be ascribed the character in section 80-O . He suggested that
it may actually be more beneficial to the assessee to claim
relief	for 25% of that whole under section 80-HHB rather
than claim 100% of say 10% attributable to section 80-O .
There is, of course, a fallacy in this argument. For	 the
assessee's case is that the contract falls either wholly
under section 80-O or partly under section 80-HHB and partly section	 80-O .	Thus, if only	 10% of the receipts	 are
attributable to section 80-O , the assessee would be entitled
to relief of 25% of the 90% under section 80-HHB and	 the
whole of the 10% under section 80-O in other words a relief
of 323-1/2% (which is more than 25%) of the whole. But,	 for
reasons, we have already set down this is a case in which
the impartation of information and provision of technical
services arise directly from the execution of	the project
and nothing else. This being so there is a complete identity
of the matters governed by section 80-HHB and section	80-O and so the assessee will be entitled to only and not	both
the reliefs. The assessee has, naturally, placed	considerable
reliance on the approval granted by the Board under section
80-O and, in particular, on the 105 Clarification issued by the Board on	 31.7.85 after	 the
assessee's representation, by deleting the reference to section	 80-HHB . The Department has sought to retaliate by
taking	up the stand that the contracts in the present	case
do not	 at all fall under section 80-O and that the Board
erred altogether in granting such approval. The Tribunal
accepted a suggestion put forward	on behalf of	 the
Department that the clarification was the result of	some
confusion and purported to obtain a further clarification
from the Board in a manner that has	 attracted vehement
complaint and criticism from the assessee. We do not think
it is necessary for us to enter into this realm of debate
for, apart from the doubtful sustainability of a collateral
attack	by the	 Department on an approval granted by	 the
highest	 administrative	 authority under the Act, we	have
endeavoured to point out that the Board was fully justified
in considering the receipts of the assessee as falling under section	 80-O and in granting approval to the contract. We
shall also proceed on the footing that the assessee is	also
right in saying that the Board had, after considering	 its
representations, accepted the position that the approval
under section 80-O would ensure also for the assessment year
1983-84 onwards. In fact, we think that, irrespective of the
Board's clarification of 1985, the correct position is that,
once a	 contract stands approved under section 80-O in
relation to the first assessment year in relation to which
the approval is sought, the approval ensures for the entire
duration of the contract. This is the principle enunciated
in C.I.T. v. Institute of Public Opinion , (1982) 134 I.T.R.
23 (Del.) the correctness of which cannot be doubted and is,
indeed,	 accepted by both counsel before us. Section	80-O does not envisage an	 application for approval of	 the
contract every	 assessment year or the	 limitation of	 the
approval granted by the Board to any particular assessment
year. The Board is approving of a contract having regard to
the nature of the receipts flowing therefrom and once	this
approval is granted, the assessee is entitled	 to seek a
deduction under section 80-O in respect of all the receipts
under the contract the consideration for which is traceable
to the three ingredients discussed earlier irrespective of
the assessment year	in which the	receipts fall	 for
assessment. The Board's approval of the contract - in	1983
as well as in 1985 - has no doubt this effect. But this is
not the same thing as saying that relief under section 80-O would be available despite section 80-HHB . It seems to us
that the Board's clarification of 31.7.1985 (which merely
withdraws the reference to section 80-HHB and	extends	 the
approval beyond 1982-83) cannot be read as	involving a
further decision that the assessee should be granted relief
under section 80-O contrary to the terms of section 80-HHB . Section	 80-O only empowers the Board to approve of a
contract on being satisfied that it gives rise	to receipts
qualifying for	 deduction under section 80-O and nothing
more. In fact	 the various terms and	 conditions of	 the
Board's	 letter of approval (in relation to which arguments
have been ad- dressed	 before us) are totally redundant and	unnecessary.
All that the Board has to do is to approve of an agreement
for the purposes of section 80-O . It has nothing more to do.
Its approval	cannot	be tentative or provisional	 or
qualified. It	cannot	be hedged in with conditions	 and
restrictions of the nature set out in the Board's letter. It
cannot limit the relief to certain assessment years only; it
cannot restrict or enlarge the scope of the relief that	 can
be granted under the section. The assessment years for which
relief is available, the extent of the receipts that qualify
for deduction and all other incidents flow from the language
of the section. The position therefore is that the Board's
approval of the agreements in the present case, originally
accorded legitimately and properly, as pointed out by us, in
respect	 of assessment years earlier to 1983-84 will enable
the assessee to claim like relief under section 80-O for all
subsequent years too. But, after the insertion of S. 80-HHB , section 80-O the matter of receipts governed both by section
80-HHB ,	 in the former and not the latter will	prevail. We
have therefore	 come to the conclusion that	the 31.7.85
amendment of the Board's approval cannot help the assessee
to overcome the mandate of section 80-HHB(5) . The Board, by
its 31.7.1985 letter, could not have intended to say	this
and, if it did, it acted outside the jurisdiction conferred
on it	by the statute. While the Board has every right to
declare	 that section 80-applies in respect of the receipts
under a contract approved by it, it has no statutory or
other right to supersede or limit the clear terms of section
80-HHB .We find ourselves unable to accede to the proposition
of Sri Nariman that the scope of S. 80-HHB should be
excluded from	application to contracts approved prior to
1.4.1983. Indeed, a difficulty of this type could arise even
in respect of a contract entered into after 1.4.1983. Since section 80-O , continues to be in the statute book even after
1.4.1983, an application may be made and a contract approved
under that section. In doing this the Board may not have,
and certainly need not have, considered the provisions of section	 80-HHB . But, despite such approval, the receipts
under the contract cannot qualify for relief under section
80-O if the assessing officer comes to the conclusion	that
the case falls under section 80-HHB . The legislature	 has
clearly	 envisaged the	 possibility of	 the same receipts
qualifying for	 deduction under section 80-HHB as well as
under any other provision of the Act and has	specifically
provided that, in such a case, the terms of section 80-HHB will prevail over the provisions of such other provision.
Sri Ahuja invited our attention to the fact that subsection
(5) was not part of section 80-HHB at the stage of	 the
Finance Bill but was inserted during the passage of the Bill
in Parliament. The Finance Minister explained the purpose in
his budget speech. He said : but when the power is vested in the apex authority under the Income-tax Act , it is clear that the scope of	the Board's
powers	is more extensive and should bear upon the terms of
the agreement	vis-a-vis the claim for relief under	 the
section	 in relation to which relief is sought. It is	also
interesting to	 see that this power of approval has since
been de-centralised and vested in the Director-General	 and
Chief Commissioner which are authorities at a	 lower	rung
than the Board but at a higher rung	than the assessing
officer. While, at one time, the Income-tax	Officer	 was
described as the king-pin of the tax administration and	 was
the sole repository	of all	 functions pertaining	 to
assessment, the recent tendency has been to vest powers of
assessment even in officers above the rank of the Income-
tax officer either because of the amount involved or	 for
other reason.	Here again, there is good reason, over	 and
above the general need to have a surveillance over foreign
contracts, why the power to grant approval is vested in a
higher	authority in the Income-tax hierarchy	itself.	 The
first is that the Board is considered better equipped,	both
on considerations of time as well as the technical knowledge
needed	 to examine	the ramifications of technical
international contracts and decide how far the contract in
question and the receipts thereunder are of	 the nature
intended to be covered by the exemption clause; The second
is that, with such a provision, the applicant is sure to
take steps to obtain necessary approval at a stage earlier
to the	 implementation	 of the contract and	it will be
possible to require the party, if modification	 or changes
are called for, to modify the contract even at the outset so
as to	bring it within the range of contracts for which
relief is intended. The third and perhaps and most important
reason	is that such contracts are generally likely to be
long-term contracts	and it is of the essence for an
applicant to know well beforehand where he stands in	 the
matter	of tax	 exemption and whether	he can	 proceed to
execute the contract on the basis that he would be eligible
for the relief he feels he is eligible for. It would result
in chaos if an assessee's contracts were	left to be
scrutinised at the time of assessment several	years after
they have been implemented and the	availability of an
exemption provision which the assessee was banking upon	 and
on the	 basis of which he had entered	into the contract,
denied	to him	 for one reason	 or another whereas,	duly
forewarned by a disapproval, he could have backed out of the
contract, if necessary, and	saved his skin. In	this
situation, we find it difficult to accept the plea of	 Sri
Ahuja that the approval is nothing	but a	measure	 for
screening the cases which an assessing officer may have to
consider. We are also reinforced in this conclusion by the manner
in which the provision has been understood and	 implemented
by the Board since its introduction. The Board	 had issued
circulars earlier when the relief had been introduced
originally by	the insertion of section 85-C and, again,
later in 1972. But, after the power of approval was vested
in the Board, elaborate guidelines were drawn up as pointed
out by	 Sri Nariman. These guidelines	clearly	 envisage a
detailed examination,	by the Board, of the terms of	 the
contract submitted to	 it for	 scrutiny from	 all angles
relevant for a decision as to	 eligibility for exemption
under section 80-O . The proforma calls for details of	 the
analysis of the receipts under the contract. An	 examination
whether	 the receipts can be said to be by way	of royalty,
commission, fee or similar payment	is undertaken.	 The
receipts are analysed under the three headings, as earlier
referred to us, set out in paras 5(a)(i), 5(a)(ii) and	5(b)
of the proforma. Even the situation where the contract is a
composite one has been dealt with by the guidelines and this
may be referred to here in a little greater detail. In	 the
circular of 23.12.75 (supra), the Board decided that it
would decline	approval in cases where the	consolidated
consideration could not be legitimately attributed to know-
how, services	etc. envisaged in the section but that in
cases where such apportionment was considered	permissible,
it would grant approval to the agreement and have	 the
quantification	of the	 exemption to	be decided by	 the
assessing officer. It said : It had also taken the view that a consideration for the
use of	 the assessee's trade-mark would be	outside	 the
purview	 of section 80-O . Subsequently, however, the Board
changed	 its line of approach on these two issues . In	 its
circular No. 253 dated 30-4-1979, the Board clarified : It	 is thus clear that the Board has chalked out	 for
itself,	 we think quite legitimately and properly, a	very
detailed and dominant	 rule as to the availability of
exemptions under section 80-O . The guidelines are of general
nature, fully sanctioned by the provisions of section 119(1) of the Act and, being instructions enuring to the benefit of
the assessee, cannot be gone back upon by the	Departmental
Officer	 subordinate to the Board, particularly in a	case
where no steps have been taken - or	 even suggested as
necessary to be taken - to cancel or revoke the approval
already	 accorded. This is, indeed, a proposition well-
settled	 by the series of judicial decisions starting	from
Navnitlal Javeri's case (1955) 56 I.T.R. 198 S.C. In	fact
also, the Board has 113 followed only its own guidelines. Elaborate reference to the
correspondence, discussions and hearing is unnecessary.	 The
Board had reached its decision to approve the contract	 and
the basis of claim for exemption after	 full consideration
and analysis. We may, in this context, also point out	that
while the Board, in the present case, simply	approved of
some of the contracts on the basis of the application filed,
it has, in the case of some other contracts modified	that
basis also. For instance, in regard to the Wadi Khan and Abu
Sukhair	 projects, the	 letter	 of approval states	that
approval is	granted	 subject to	the condition	 or
clarification that only the profits relating to rendering of
technical services will qualify for the benefit of section
80-O of the I.T. Act and not the profits relating to	 the
supply	of material/equipment. These guidelines have	also
since attained statutory recognition as the proforma earlier
prescribed by the Board has virtually been incorporated in
Rule 11E and Form prescribed thereunder. In fact Sri Nariman wants to utilise certain columns in
the statutory	form to support his contentions that an
approval under section 80-O is effective even after section
80-HHB was introduced but to this argument, we shall advert
a little later. We have, in view of the above discussion, no
doubt at all that, while granting the approval under section
80-O , the Board has not only the jurisdiction but also	 the
responsibility	of examining the agreement submitted	 for
approval from all angles relevant to the deduction provided
for under section 80-O and that it is not competent to	 the
Department to question the maintainability of the claim	 for
deduction under section 80-O of the aspects gone into	 and
decided upon by the Board. We	 should, however, make it clear that our conclusion
does not mean	 the deprivation of all functions of	 the
assessing officer while making the	assessment on	 the
applicant. The Officer has to satisfy himself (i) that	 the
amounts	 in respect of which the relief is	claimed	 are
amounts arrived at in accordance with the formula, principle
or basis explained in the assessee's application	 and
approved by the Board; (ii) that the deduction	 claimed in
the relevant assessment year relates to the items and is
referable to the basis on which application for exemption
was asked for	 and granted by the Board; (iii) that	 the
receipts (before the 1975 amendment) were duly certified by
an accountant	or that, thereafter, the amounts have	been
received in or brought into India in	convertible foreign
exchange within the specified period. The second of these
functions is, particularly, important as the approval	 for
exemption granted in principle has to be translated	into
concrete figures for	the purposes of each	 assessment.
Neither	 the introduction of the words "in accordance	with
and subject to the provisions of this	 sections" nor	 the
various "conditions" outlined in the letter of approval	 add
anything to or detract anything from	 the scope of	 the
approval 114 As already mentioned, Sri Nariman also contended that,
even after the insertion of S-HHB, the assessee would be
entitled to claim the deduction under section 80-O in	view
of the Board's amendment to the letter of approval that	 the
approval will	be operative for assessment year 1982-83
onwards, rescinding the qualification in the earlier letter
that the provisions of S. 80-HHB will apply for assessment
year 1983-84	onwards. It is true	that the earlier
restriction was lifted by the Board after considering	 the
contentions raised by the assessee in its letter of 2-12-
1983 : But we are unable to give effect to	the Board's
decision of 31-7-1985	 in the same way as we	 have given
effect to the Board's earlier approval letter of 28-10-1983
for a number of reasons. The first is that the	jurisdiction
of a Board is to grant approval to a contract only for	 the
purposes of section 80-O ; it has no jurisdiction	 to
pronounce on the availability or otherwise of an exemption
under section	80-HHB and the Board's opinion as to this,
even if expressly stated by the Board, cannot bind	 the
Officer. The relief under section 80-HHB is not dependent on
the approval of the Board and is for a totally different
type of transaction.	The letter of	31.7.85	 is also a
decision in an individual case and cannot be treated as a
general	 circular incorporating a policy decision by	 the
Board that in all cases of a particular type	governed by
both section relief may be given under section 80-O in which
event perhaps it could have been implemented by applying the
principle of the Jhavari case (supra). The second is	that
the Board, in the 1985 letter, has only stated that	 the
approval under section 80-O will enure for 1982-83 onwards.
This is quite a correct statement of, as we have explained
earlier, the approval by the Board is to the contract and so
long as the contract subsists the relief should be granted
on the term of section 80-O . Thus the assessee is entitled
to deduction under section 80-O on the terms of that section
even for 1983-84 and subsequent years.	It becomes
disentitled to the relief not because it does	not fulfill
the requirements of section 80-O but only because section
80-HHB(5) stands in the way and mandates that in cases to
which both provisions will apply relief under section 80-HHB will alone be available. The argument that the applicability
of section 80-HHB should be 115 excluded from contracts entered into, or those approved of
under section 80-O , before 1.4.1983, is patently untenable. Section	 8 comes into force on 1.4.1983 and should be
applicable for assessment year 1983-84 onwards in all cases.
It does not contain even a reference to section 80-O and so
its applicability cannot depend on the formation of	 the
contract subsequent to that date or to the date of its
approval under	 the latter section being after	 that date.
Thirdly, the approval which otherwise qualifies the assessee
for relief is no doubt still effective but its power to
"qualify" for	relief is taken away by the new statutory
provision. The	 argument that the assessee could not	have
anticipated the insertion of section 80-HHB and is put to a
hardship if that section is applied is no doubt correct. But
one cannot decline to give effect to the applicability of
the statutory provision on the ground of hardship or on	 the
ground	that it restricts the relief which, but for	 the
insertion of the section, would have been available to	 the
assessee, particularly when the section itself envisages the
possibility of the assessee being also eligible for relief
under another section and makes special provision of	that
eventuality. Sri Nariman submitted that we should not	 favour	 the
above interpretation as it would lead to an anomalous
result. He says that the whole idea of section 80-HHB was to
enlarge	 the benefits	to contractors	working	 abroad	 and
earning	 foreign exchange but	 that,	by reason of	 our
decision, the	assessee will now get relief only to	 the
extent	of 25% in respect of a contract for which it	 got
100% benefit in earlier years. On the other hand,	 the
department would no doubt say that our conclusion that	 the
assessee was entitled, in earlier assessment year, to 100 %
relief on this type of contract is anomalous in the light of
the fact that subsequently the legislature	specifically
provided that only 25 % of the earnings on foreign projects
should be exempted. In our view, there is no force in these
contentions. The anomaly, if it is one, arises because of
the specific language of the statute and the nature of	 the
contract we have to consider. S. 80-HHB does not confer an
additional benefit; sub-section (5) in no uncertain terms
states	that the benefit thereunder will take away	 the
benefit, if any, under any other provision. This has to be
given effect to. Equally, the assessee was able to get 100 %
relief in earlier years only because the contract here is of
such nature that it consists only of the rendering of
technical services so that the fields of the two exemptions
completely overlap. On the other hand, as discussed earlier,
it is possible to conceive of foreign projects wherein	 the
construction and installation aspect	and information or
technical services aspect are kept separate. Equally there
can be	 cases falling under section 80-O which do not	 all
relate to a "foreign project" as defined in section 80-HHB .
In such cases, the two provisions will continue to operate
independently. There is, therefore, no anomaly or absurdity
in the conclusion we have reached. For the reasons	discussed above, we hold that	 the
assessee was entitled to the relief under section 80-O for
assessment years earlier to 1983-84 and that the approval
granted	 by the Board under that section was right	 and
proper.	 However, for	the assessment	 year 1983-84,	 the
assessee does not qualify for deduction on the terms of that
section	 as the contract receipts are fully covered by	 the
provisions of s. 80-HHB and the deduction under that section
will prevail over the relief that might have been otherwise
available in view of the terms of section 80-HHB(5) .	 We,
therefore, affirm the conclusion reached by the High Court
and dismiss the appeal. We, however, make no order as to
costs.