1. Revisionist namely Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya has filed present revision
 petition thereby challenging order dated 05.11.2024 passed by Ld. Trial
 Court in Complaint Case No. 483/2023 titled as "Sudeep Kumar
 Shrotriya Vs. LG Corporation & Ors. ", vide which Ld. Trial Court had
 dismissed the application of revisionist u/sec. 156(3) CrPC and
 complainant was directed to lead pre-summoning evidence. 2. Revisionist herein is the complainant and respondents herein are the
 proposed accused persons before Ld. Trial Court. In my subsequent
 paragraphs, parties will be referred with the same nomenclature with
 which they were referred before Ld. Trial Court, in order to avoid
 confusion. 3. Trial Court record reveal that complainant had filed an application
 u/sec. 156(3) CrPC against accused persons, praying for registration of
 FIR before Ld. Trial Court. The contents of the complaint of the
 complainant in complaint are mentioned below, in brief :- 4. Ld. Trial Court vide its order dated 22.03.2023 called the Action Taken
 Report. In response to the said order, status report was filed. Thereafter,
 Ld. Trial Court vide impugned order dated 05.11.2024 after considering
 the contents of application u/sec. 156(3) CrPC and the aforesaid action
 taken report, dismissed the application of complainant and directed the
 complainant to lead pre-summoning evidence u/sec. 200 CrPC . CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.6 of 22 5. Feeling aggrieved from the impugned order dated 05.11.2024,
 revisionist/ complainant has preferred the present revision petition, on
 the grounds that :- 6. In addition to the aforesaid grounds, Ld. Counsel for complainant has

 argued that from a bare perusal of the application moved by the
 revisionist u/sec. 156 (3) CrPC , a cognizable offence was clearly made
 out and the Court ought to have ordered for the registration of FIR and
 investigation into the matter, but the same was rejected in an illegal
 manner. It has been argued that lured by the glitzy advertisements and

 CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.11 of 22
 promises of the world class product and after sale services, the
complainant had purchased an expensive 3D LED UHD TV on
26.08.2016 alongwith one-year comprehensive warranty and additional
one-year extended warranty on the display panel from the accused. It
has been argued that accused no.1 company is the holding company of
accused no. 5 who in turn is holding company of accused no. 8. It has
been argued that rest of the respondent/accused are the officers of these
companies and directly responsible for their day-to-day running. It has
been argued that during its warranty period problems arose with the
display panel/screen of the said TV and complaint was registered on
04.03.2018. After inspection and collecting warranty card, accused had
to promise to replace the display panel or display the TC, in which, they
failed to do so. It has been argued that hence it is not a case of delay or
deficiency in services but a case where the accused persons had the full
knowledge about their own incapacity and/or incapability of providing
the promised warranty repairs or replacement from the very beginning
but still provided the initial and extended warrantee against additional
payment. It has been argued that accused persons had the intention to
cheat the complainant from very beginning and even extorted further
money. It has been argued that the status report dated 13.07.2023 filed
by the police records false statements made by the accused persons. It
has been argued that Ld. Trial Court did not appreciate that the case at
hand is not a simple complaint pertaining to a single customer or a
single product but actually a scam of astronomical proportions wherein
the accused persons have cheated and extorted huge sums of money

CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.12 of 22
 under a criminal conspiracy by employing deceitful, illegal and
 extortionist business strategies and have actually succeeded in
 extracting huge sums of money from the Indian citizens wherein low
 standard/refurbished/discontinued products were/are being offered for
 purchase at very high rates by misrepresenting them to be world class
 products. It has been argued that the investigation in the matter has to
 be of wider implication and can only be carried out by a specialized
 police agency having adequate power under law to investigate the
 matter and collect the evidence. The complainant cannot be expected to
 provide evidence about the criminal conspiracy, internal operations and
 wider crimes committed by the accused persons. It has been further
 argued that all the incriminating facts can only be revealed during
 investigation. Hence, a prayer has been made to set-aside the impugned
 order by allowing the present revision. Ld. Counsel for revisionists has
 relied upon the judgment titled as Lalita Kumari Vs. Govt. of UP &
 Ors., WP (c) No. 68/2008 decided on 12.11.2013 by Hon'ble Apex
 Court. 7. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for respondent no. 8 has argued that impugned

 order passed by Ld. Trial Court is legally correct and needs no
 interference. It has been argued that no cognizable offence is made out
 in the present case. It has been argued that no property was entrusted by
 the complainant to any of the named respondents/ accused and the 3D
 TV is in his possession, therefore, the necessary ingredients of Sec. 406 IPC, are missing in present case. It has been argued that the essential

 CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.13 of 22
 ingredient of Sec. 420 IPC is inducement and thereby delivery of the
property. The revisionist had purchased the TV in question from Croma
and not directly from any of the respondents/ accused. It has been
argued that invoice shows part payment through Gift Vouchers worth
Rs. 1,00,000/- and in addition he got a Home Theater free. It has been
argued that complainant had not delivered anything but he had
purchased the TV after paying its price. If at all there was a defect in
the said TV, it is civil dispute/ a dispute covered under Consumer Act .
It has been argued that there is nothing on record to show that
complainant had suffered any unlawful loss and the profit from the said
sale was made by Croma Store and not by respondents/ accused as the
Croma was owner of the goods and not the respondents. It has been
argued that the complainant bought the TV on 26.08.2016 and took
extended warranty for two years on 13.07.2018. It has been argued that
as per ATR, complainant after taking extended warranty did not lodge
any complaint and in fact had purchased Remote twice. Therefore, there
is no question of committing any offence of cheating by any of
respondents/ accused in the present case as there was neither any
inducement by the respondents/ accused nor delivery of any property by
the complainant to the respondents/ accused. It has been argued that
ATR filed by the police does not support revisionist case at all. It has
been argued that Ld. Trial court has rightly observed in the order that
the dispute in question is purely in civil nature. The order passed by
trial court is reasoned order. The trial court has rightly held that the
entire evidence is in the knowledge and control of the revisionist and

CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.14 of 22
 the identity of the proposed accused persons are also in his knowledge
 and therefore investigation by the police is not required. Further the
 trial court after relying upon the judgment of M/s Skipper Beverages
 Pvt. Ltd. vs State has rightly dismissed the said application. It has been
 argued that present complaint is frivolous and respondents/ accused
 have not committed any offence for which FIR in this case needs to be
 registered. Further, it is argued that all facts are within knowledge of
 complainant and there is no need for investigation after registration of
 FIR. 8. Respondent no. 1 to 7 and 9 to 16 did not appear before the Court

 despite service to contest the present revision petition. The respondent
 no. 8 has appeared through counsel and advanced arguments. 9. I have heard the arguments on behalf of Ld. Counsel for complainant/

 revisionist, Ld. Addl. PP for the State and Ld. Counsel for respondent
 no. 8 and also carefully perused the record. 10. Impugned order was passed by Ld. Trial Court on 05.11.2024. Present

 revision petition was filed by complainant on 06.03.2025 and thereafter
 vide order dated 06.03.2025, the delay of 200 days in filing of the
 present revision was condoned, upon the application. 11. The impugned order was not an interlocutory order. That order decided

 the legal rights of the parties and therefore, present revision petition is
 maintainable before this court. CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.15 of 22 12. Revisionist/ complainant by way of present revision petition has

 claimed that facts of this case requires registration of an FIR under the
 penal sections of IPC . It is a settled principle of law that while deciding
 application u/sec. 156(3) CrPC , Ld. Magistrate is given discretion
 which he has to exercise after proper application of mind. Further,
 Magistrate should not order registration of FIR u/sec. 156(3) CrPC ,
 without applying his mind, in a mechanical manner. The powers u/sec.
 156(3) CrPC have to be exercised where allegations are quite serious or
 evidence is beyond reach of complainant or custodial interrogation
 appears to be necessary for recovery of some articles or discovery of
 facts. 13. For deciding the aforesaid question, it is relevant to mention here the

 relevant law governing adjudication of application U/s. 156 (3) CrPC . 14. Section 156 (3) CrPC reads as under :- mentioned." CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.16 of 22 15. Section 156 (3) CrPC provides that a check by the Magistrate on the

 police performing its duty under Chapter 12 of CrPC , in cases where
 the Magistrate finds that the police has not done its duty, investigating
 the case at all, or has not done it satisfactorily, he can issue a direction
 to the police to do the investigation properly and can monitor the same.
 Reliance in this regard is placed upon case law titled as Dilawar Singh
 vs. State of Delhi (2007) 12 SCC 641. 16. In the case titled as Sukwasi vs. State of Uttar Pradesh [2008 Crl. LJ

 472], it has been held that ; CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.17 of 22 17. In the case titled as Ravindra Kumar vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi)

 & Anr. [2013 VIII AD (Delhi) 403], it has been held that ; 18. Here, I must mention here that ratio of a case is facts specific i.e.
 ratio of a case has to be read as per facts of particular case. Even a
 change of a single fact can make difference to the ratio of a case and on
 the basis of spirit of this precedent, provisions of the specific act are to
 be considered with features of the case. Reliance in this regard is placed
 upon case law titled as Padma Sundra Rao Vs. State of Tamil Nadu
 2002 (3) SCC 533 by Hon'ble Apex Court. CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.18 of 22 19. Ld. Trial Court has referred to the judgment of M/s. Skipper
Beverages Pet. Ltd. Vs. State [2002 Crl. LJ NOC 333 (Delhi)], wherein
the Hon'ble High Court has made following observations :- 20. In view of the aforesaid case laws, the issue which arises for
adjudication is, whether Ld. Trial Court has correctly exercised its
judicial discretion, while rejecting application of complainant u/sec.
156 (3) CrPC ? 21. Further, a bare perusal of impugned order reveals that it was
passed by Ld. Trial Court after considering Action Taken Report,
furnished by the investigating agency. It has also been held that present
case pertains to civil in nature. Record further reveals that all the
allegations levelled by the complainant is either based on the e-mails or
on the basis of documents annexed with the complaint furnished by the
complainant in this case. Further, the complainant is also well within
the knowledge of alleged transaction/ telephonic communications/
chats/ e-mails between them. Therefore, in this case, nothing has to be
recovered from the alleged accused persons. Further, the allegations
against proposed accused persons can be proved by the complainants
and evidence in support of their allegations, by leading evidence.
Further, the identity of accused persons is known to the complainant

CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.19 of 22
 and the alleged evidence is also under the control of the complainant
and all the incriminating facts are well within the knowledge of the
complainant. 22. Keeping the above facts and circumstances of the case at hand, in
revision, the scope is very limited. Moreover, the observations made by
Hon'ble Apex Court in Sakiri Vasu Vs. State of UP, Crl. Appeal No.
1685/2007 decided on 07.12.2007 by Hon'ble Apex Court , are squarely
applicable to instant case. There is no ground to deviate from the
remedy available to complainants u/sec. 200 CrPC . 23. Undisputedly, the Magistrate can exercise his power u/sec. 156
(3) of the Code, however must not exercise and pass the order
mechanically on the mere asking by the complainant. These powers
ought to be exercised primarily in those cases where the allegations are
quite serious and evidence is beyond the reach of complainant or
custodial interrogation appears to be necessary for some recovery or
article or discovery of fact, which is not in the present case. 24. In the present case, complainant/ revisionist is in possession of
all the materials which are required to be produced in support his
allegations and the identity of alleged accused persons are well known
to the complainant/ revisionist. The allegations as raised by the
complainant do not appear to be of such a nature requiring custodial
interrogation of accused persons or intervention of the State in the form

CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.20 of 22
 of police investigation. More so, as observed by Ld. Trial Court, prima
facie the dispute between the parties falls within the jurisdiction of civil
law and also that recourse could be sought from the appropriate forum
and does not attract the penal provisions. 25. However, the allegations still may be proved by complainant
before Ld. Trial Court through oral and documentary evidence in
support of their complaint u/sec. 200 CrPC . As such, the complainant
has specific knowledge regarding the incidents in question as well as
chain of events. Even otherwise, Ld. Trial Court has not dismissed the
complaint, rather directed to lead evidence. Therefore, the complainant
has all liberty to prove his complaint by leading evidence thereto. No
proper justification is given in the grounds of revision petition, for
referring the matter to police for investigation and for ordering the
registration of FIR. The reasons for not ordering the registration of FIR
in the instant case by Ld. Trial Court are well founded and are duly
reflected in the impugned order passed by Ld. Trial Court, keeping in
view of the law laid down while deciding the application in hand. 26. After going through the impugned order, I find that Ld. Trial
Court has not passed cryptic order. The said impugned order has
reasons which are not repeated here for the sake of brevity. Those
reasons were outcome of proper exercise of judicial discretion.
Accordingly, I find no discrepancy or procedural irregularities in the
impugned order passed by learned Trial Court. The complainant has
also failed to establish any illegality in the impugned order. CR No. 172/2025 Sudeep Kumar Shrotriya Vs. LG Corp & Ors. Page No.21 of 22 27. So, the arguments of Ld. Counsel for complainant/ revisionist by
way of present revision petition, do not hold the ground to the cause of
complainant. Same stands discarded. The net result is that, revision
petition lacks merit. Impugned order, is legally correct. Accordingly,
present revision petition, stands dismissed and impugned order dated
05.11.2024 passed by Ld. Trial Court, stands upheld. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance.