The Indian government last week banned 94 digital lending apps that allegedly have links to China. However, it emerged that some popular apps like PayU’s LazyPay, which have no Chinese links, were also targeted. This has led to fear in the digital lending industry because anyone could be next.

Why does this matter: The fintech and digital lending industries in India are both fast-growing and cater to millions of Indian citizens. They also receive significant amounts of domestic and foreign funding. Any uncertainty could hamper the growth of these industries and reduce confidence in the ecosystem.

Fintechs 🇮🇳 Phat Gaya

Govt has banned so many lending apps…causing panic.

Govt has changed LRS norms…Fintechs facilitating investing in overseas equities unviable.

Neobanks are also shallow propositions now.

This industry is so prone to regulatory nightmares.

Thoughts?

— Rajesh Sawhney 🇮🇳 (@rajeshsawhney) February 9, 2023

What are some of the loan apps that were banned: There is no official list shared by the government and we might never get one because Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, under which the blocking orders were probably issued, allows the government to keep such orders a secret. However, based on a leaked list, the following well-known apps (and websites) have been banned:

Here are a few more names:

A look at the apps so far on the block list https://t.co/FkweJHChH6 pic.twitter.com/GquuhzqzTX

— Chandra R. Srikanth (@chandrarsrikant) February 7, 2023

Sideloading also targeted: The list also targets certain lending apps hosted on Aptoide, an alternative app store that lets Android users download installation files (APK files) from the browser to install the apps (sideloading), bypassing the traditional Play Store route.

Some links appear to target impersonating apps rather than the original:

There might be fewer than 94 digital lending apps on the list: Some links like “mpokket.en.aptoide.com” and “paymeindia.en.aptiode.com” appear twice on the list suggesting that the real count of blocked digital lending apps might be lesser than 94 or that the leaked list is inauthentic.

What are the possible reasons for the ban: The government hasn’t officially stated any reason. Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati, which first shared news of the blocking order, tweeted that the apps “reportedly have Chinese links.” Economic Times reported that the following could be some of the reasons why the apps were banned:

Another reason could be related to the new whitelist : The Finance Ministry on February 7 informed the parliament that the Indian government has sent a whitelist of approved digital lending apps to app stores and asked them to ensure that only these apps are hosted on their platforms. The whitelist was prepared after asking non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to submit a list of apps being operated by them. It could be that apps like Lazypay and Kissht were included in the ban list because they were not part of the whitelist.

“There is a rhyme and a reason why the app bans are happening […] There is something that would have triggered this, some major crossing-the-line affair that would have caused this and that’s why Meity acted on it at this scale.” — PhonePe CEO Sameer Nigam at CNN News18 Town Hall

No formal correspondence from the government: The Digital Lenders Association of India (DLAI) told ET that none of its members received any formal communication from the IT Ministry regarding the bans.

What steps has the industry and government taken since the ban:

Google awaiting final list: If you check on Google Play Store, many of the banned apps will still be available. This is because Google hasn’t yet fully implemented the ban. Sources at the company told Economic Times that it is conducting a thorough review of the list before taking any action and is also consulting with the IT Ministry on a final list.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event