Heard Mr. P. Roy Barman, learned senior counsel assisted by

Mr. K. Chakraborty, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner. Also heard Mr. Kohinoor N. Bhattacharjee, learned Government

Advocate appearing for the State-respondents. Page 2 2. By means of filing this writ petition, the petitioner has

prayed for the following reliefs: 3. The petitioner, who is a Member of Tripura Legislative

Assembly, has preferred this petition under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India for a writ, direction or order to quash the

letter dated 08.11.2025, issued by the respondent No.4 herein,

and mandating the respondents to register First Information

Report (for short "FIR") in connection with the written complaint

of the petitioner dated 26.10.2025 and to proceed with the

investigation. To begin with, it may be apposite to briefly note

the circumstances in which the aforesaid order dated

08.11.2025, came to be passed. (a) The genesis is in a written complaint lodged by the
 petitioner before the respondent No.4 against one Sri Pranab
 Page 3

Sarkar and his associates informing regarding commission of
cognizable offences, and prayed for registration of FIR, in
connection therewith. In the written complaint, the petitioner
has highlighted his credentiality to be a citizen of India and
Permanent resident of Tripura. (b) The written complaint further reveals that on
24.10.2025 onward an electronic media, named. 'Headlines
Tripura National' broadcasted news with regard to possessing
of fake Bangladesh Voter ID Card and fabricated Birth
Certificate by the petitioner herein, deliberately and
intentionally with a view to destroy personal image and bright
political career of the petitioner. (c) The written complaint further reveals that a group of
conspirators are involved for preparation of such fake and
fabricated important documents and thereafter, these group
and some interested reporters subsequently broadcast such
deliberate and intentional news on the strength of such fake
and fabricated documents with a view to destroy the career of
important representatives. It was further alleged that the
conspirators in the same manner prepared fake Bangladeshi
Birth Certificate and Bangladeshi Voter ID Card in respect of
the petitioner mentioning his mother's name as Sumita
Debbarma whereas, the actual name of the mother of the
petitioner is Madhumala Debbarma. (d) The written complaint further reveals that the
petitioner became victim of such unexpected circumstances
following such intentional and deliberate broadcasting without
scrutinizing the genuinity of his Voter ID card and Birth
Certificate of Bangladesh. (e) The grounds taken in written complaint further reveals
that Mr. Pranab Sarkar neither discussed or consulted with the
petitioner regarding issuance of fake and fabricated
Bangladeshi Voter Card and Birth Certificate in respect of the
petitioner and also did not verify the genuinity of such
 Page 4

Bangladeshi Voter card and Birth Certificate. Another ground
taken in the written complaint is that despite other fake and
fabricated Bangladeshi Voter Card published in Social Media in
respect of apex level Political leaders of Tripura in his channel,
Mr. Sarkar and his associates did not publish or broadcast
such news which is partiality and biasness as an editor of
"Headlines Tripura National". With regard to the written complaint, the concerned
police station entered the information in GD Book vide GD
Entry No. 21, dated 26.10.2025. (e) After submission of the written complaint before
respondent No.4, the petitioner vide letters dated 29.10.2025,
29.10.2025, 30.10.2025, 30.10.2025, 29.10.2025 &
30.10.2025, had also approached before the Hon'ble Governor
of Tripura, the Hon'ble President of India, the Chairperson of
National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, the Assistant
Director of National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, the
Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee for Scheduled
Tribes, the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tripura, requesting for
taking suitable action against the said accused persons. respondent No.4, refused to register FIR, on the ground that
no cognizable offence has been made out, thereby disposed of
the written complaint submitted by the petitioner with a
finding as 'No Cognizable Offence' at this stage, in conformity
with Section 173 BNSS and prevailing legal principles
governing preliminary enquiry and registration of cases. In the
communication dated 08.11.2025, it was clarified that if fresh,
verifiable evidence indicating commission of cognizable
offences comes out, the matter will be reopened forthwith in
accordance with law. The complaint made by the petitioner to
the officer-in-charge of the police station dated 26.10.2025
 Page 5

and the communication dated 08.11.2025, is reproduced
hereunder for better appreciation: Under the above, I do hereby request before your kindself to register a specific
 criminal case against Mr. Pranab Sarkar and his Associates under specific sections of
 law of BNS-2023, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)
 Act, 1989 and the Indian Information Technology Act 2000 for broadcasting of such
 intentional and deliberate publication against me. Thanking you in an anticipation." Reply dated 08.11.2025 from the O/c to the petitioner
 "To. Shri Ranjit Debbarma, MLA
 MLA Hostel, Room No. 208, New Secretariat
 Agartala, Tripura. Ref:-West Agartala P.S GDE No-21 dated 26/10/2025 & GDE No- 41 dated 08/11/2025
 US-173(3) of BNSS 2023. Sub: Reasoned disposal of your complaint dated 26.10.2025.
 Sir,
 With reference to the above representation, it is respectfully informed that the
 matter was examined under Section 173 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,
 2023 (BNSS). In terms of Section 173(3) BNSS, a limited preliminary enquiry was
 undertaken only to ascertain whether the information disclosed a prima facie
 cognizable offence warranting registration of an FIR. Findings (speaking order). 1. Defamation (BNS): The allegations predominantly disclose reputational harm.
 Criminal defamation is defined in Section 356 BNS and, as per the First Schedule, is
 non-cognizable and bailable. Accordingly, the police cannot register an FIR for
 defamation alone; cognizance ordinarily lies on a private complaint before the
 competent Magistrate. 2. Forgery angle (BNS sections 338/340): On the allegation of "fake/fabricated
 documents," no material emerged to show that the named media persons made,
 forged, or used as genuine any forged record as required to attract Sections 338/340
 BNS. The role imputed is limited to publication/broadcast; no nexus to the act of
 forgery or to any agreement to forge (criminal conspiracy) is made out at this stage. 3. SC/ST (PoA) Act, 1989: The statute requires that the insult/intimidation/abuse be
 on the ground of caste/tribe and, where applicable, in public view. The materials
 furnished relate to nationality assertions and do not disclose targeted conduct on
 account of your Scheduled Tribe status. 4. Information Technology Act, 2000 : On the facts placed and materials verified, the
 ingredients of any specific IT Act offence (e.g. 66C/66D/67/67A) are not prima facie
 disclosed-no impersonation, cheating by personation, or electronic obscenity
 attributable to the named persons was found. Decision
 As the enquiry did not reveal the ingredients of any cognizable offence, no FIR has
 been registered at West Agartala Police Station. The representation is, therefore,
 disposed of as "No Cognizable Offence (NCO)" at this stage, in conformity with Section
 173 BNSS and prevailing legal principles governing preliminary enquiry and
 registration of cases. It is clarified that, should any fresh, verifiable evidence indicating the commission
 of a cognizable offence come to light, the matter will be reopened forthwith in
 accordance with law". Page 7 4. The contention of Mr. Roy Barman, learned senior

counsel appearing for the petitioner is that the complaint itself

reveals cognizable offence and despite that the respondent no. 4

being biased intentionally refused to register any FIR. That prior

to filing of this writ petition, the petitioner has approached

various authorities and sought for relief. He further submits that

the respondent no.4 in the name of preliminary inquiry has not

register any FIR which tentamounts to give clean chit to Mr.

Sarkar, who himself alongwith his associates are engaged in

preparing forged documents. That despite the petitioner

submitted all his original testimonies to establish his citizenship

and resident of Tripura to prove the offence of forgery committed

by Mr. Sarkar, the respondent no. 4 did not register any FIR. That Mr. Sarkar and his associates has intentionally created some

fake and forged documents in respect of the petitioner only to

malign the petitioner. That from the written complaint it has

come to fore that Mr. Sarkar has committed offence punishable

under Sections 336(4) and 340(2) of BNS, 2023 and the same

are cognizable offence and the police authorities were bound to

register an FIR against the conspirators on the contrary the

respondent no. 4 has opined that the complaint is of 'no

cognizable offence'. That the entire preliminary inquiry is

perfunctory. In support of his submission, learned senior counsel

has heavily relied upon the decision rendered by the apex court

in Vinod Kumar Pandey & ors. Vs. Seesh Ram Saini & ors,

and Vinod Kumar Pandey & ors. Vs. Vijay Aggarwal & ors.,
 Page 8

reported in Manu/SC/1256/2025, [para 30]; Ramesh

Kumari vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) & ors., reported in (2006) 2

SCC 677, [paras 2 and 3]; Lalita Kumari vs. Govt. of UP &

ors., reported in AIR 2014 SC 187, [paras 110 and 111]. He

prayed to allow the writ petition directing the respondent No.4,

the Officer-in-Charge of West Agartala police station to register

an FIR and investigate. 5. Mr. Kohinoor N. Bhattacharjee, learned Government

Advocate appearing for the State-respondents has submitted that

the decision arrived at by respondent no. 4 is in all fairness

correct and needs no interference. That since no cognizable

offence has been made out despite sincere enquiry, the FIR has

not been registered. That as the petitioner was aggrieved by the

action of the respondents/police authority he was supposed to

approach the court of learned Magistrate with a complaint

petition supported by proper affidavit, which opportunity, the

petitioner has not availed, and if the petitioner was further

aggrieved, he can approach under 226 of the Constitution of

India. That alternative remedy lies to approach the learned

Magistrate as per Section 173(4) of BNSS, 2023, and in the

instant case, mandates of Sections 173 and 175 of BNSS, 2023,

has not been availed by the petitioner. That the preliminary

enquiry report has been submitted following all procedure. To

controvert the submission of counsel for the petitioner, learned

Government Advocate has submitted that Lalita Kumari 's case,

reported in AIR 2014 SC 187 which dealt with the statute of
 Page 9

criminal procedure code, but in the present case, the preliminary

enquiry conducted by respondent no.4, is envisaged under the

new provision of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for

short, 'BNSS, 2023'). In this context, he has relied upon the

decision of XXX vs. State of Kerala & ors. reported in 2026

SCC Online SC 114; Sakiri Vasu vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors., reported in (2008) 2 SCC 409. He prayed to dismiss the

writ petition. 6. This court has perused the record and also has gone

through the references made therein. The court is to be governed

by the principle of justice, equity and good conscious. At the very

outset, this court has considered the aspect that the complaint was

submitted under the provisions of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha (for

short, BNS) 2023. After meticulous reading of the provisions of law,

this court is of the view that if a complaint is submitted on or after

01.07.2024 i.e. after implementation of BNSS, the procedure for

investigation and inquiry shall follow the procedure of the BNSS. In

para 110 and 111 of Lalita Kumari 's (supra) reported in AIR

2014 SC 187, it has been held thus: But, if the information given clearly mentions the commission of a cognizable offence, there is
 no other option but to register an FIR forthwith. Other considerations are not relevant at the
 stage of registration of FIR, such as, whether the information is falsely given, whether the
 information is genuine, whether the information is credible etc. These are the issues that have
 to be verified during the investigation of the FIR. At the stage of registration of FIR, what is to
 be seen is merely whether the information given ex facie discloses the commission of a
 cognizable offence. If, after investigation, the information given is found to be false, there is
 always an option to prosecute the complainant for filing a false FIR.
 Conclusion/Directions: In cases where preliminary inquiry ends in closing the complaint, a copy of the entry of such
 closure must be supplied to the first informant forthwith and not later than one week. It must
 disclose reasons in brief for closing the complaint and not proceeding further. iv) The police officer cannot avoid his duty of registering offence if cognizable offence is
 disclosed. Action must be taken against erring officers who do not register the FIR if
 information received by him discloses a cognizable offence. v) The scope of preliminary inquiry is not to verify the veracity or otherwise of the information
 received but only to ascertain whether the information reveals any cognizable offence. vi) As to what type and in which cases preliminary inquiry is to be conducted will depend on
 the facts and circumstances of each case. The category of cases in which preliminary inquiry may be made are as under: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all conditions which may warrant
 preliminary inquiry. vii) While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused and the complainant, a preliminary
 inquiry should be made time bound and in any case it should not exceed 7 days. The fact of
 such delay and the causes of it must be reflected in the General Diary entry. viii) Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily Diary is the record of all information received
 in a police station, we direct that all information relating to cognizable offences, whether
 resulting in registration of FIR or leading to an inquiry, must be mandatorily and meticulously
 reflected in the said Diary and the decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry must also be
 reflected, as mentioned above". 6(i) This court deems it necessary to discuss the changes

brought to the scheme of Section 154 of the Cr.P.C. by the

enactment of the BNSS, 2023. Section 173 of the BNSS, 2023

corresponds to Section 154 of the Cr.P.C. Section 175(1) of the

BNSS is in pari materia with section 156(1) of the Cr.P.C. except

the proviso which empowers the Superintendent of Police to

direct the Deputy Superintendent of Police to investigate a case if

the nature or gravity of the case so requires. Section 175(2) of

the BNSS is identical to Section 156(2) of the Cr.P.C. Section

175(3) of the BNSS empowers any Magistrate who is empowered

to take cognizance under Section 210 to order investigation in

accordance with Section 175(1) and to this extent is in pari
 Page 11

materia with Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. However, unlike Section

156(3) of the Cr.P.C., any Magistrate, before ordering

investigation under Section 175(3) of the BNSS, is required to

consider the application, supported by an affidavit, made by the

complainant to the Superintendent of Police under Section

173(4) of the BNSS and after conduct of such inquiry as he

thinks necessary and consider the submissions made by the

police officer order for such investigation. 6(ii) Similarly, introduction of changes by the legislature

can be attributed to Section 173 of the BNSS, 2023 which

replaces Section 154 of the Cr.P.C., introducing mandatory

preliminary inquiries for offenses punishable by 3 to 7 years. Section 173(3) is a newly introduced provision in the BNSS,

2023. This provision has given statutory recognition to the

procedure of conducting preliminary enquiry by a police officer. Section 173(3) of the BNSS states that, without prejudice to the

provisions contained in Section 175, on receipt of information

relating to the commission of any cognizable offence, which is

made punishable for three years or more but less than seven

years, the officer in charge of the police station may with the

prior permission from an officer not below the rank of Deputy

Superintendent of Police, considering the nature and gravity of

the offence, (i) proceed to conduct preliminary enquiry to

ascertain whether there exists a prima facie case for proceeding

in the matter within a period of fourteen days; or (ii) proceed

with investigation when there exists a prima facie case. Section
 Page 12

173(3) of the BNSS enables the officer in charge of the police

station with the prior permission from an officer not below the

rank of Dy.S.P, to conduct preliminary enquiry. He can conduct

such an enquiry on receipt of information relating to the

commission of any cognizable offence, which is made punishable

(with imprisonment) for three years or more but less than seven

years. 6(iii) However, section 173(3) is incompatible with Section

173(1) of the BNSS. As per Section 173(1) of the BNSS, on

receipt of information relating to the commission of a cognizable

offence, it is mandatory for the officer in charge of the police

station to register the FIR. On the other hand, Section 173(3) of

the BNSS states that, on receipt of information relating to the

commission of any cognizable offence, which is made punishable

for three years or more but less than seven years, the officer in

charge of the police station may conduct a preliminary enquiry. To that extent, it appears that, Section 173(3) of the BNSS is

incompatible with Section 173(1) of the BNSS. 6(iv) Further, as per the dictum laid down by the Apex

Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), a preliminary

inquiry is permissible if the information received does not

disclose a cognizable offence. On the contrary, Section 173(3) of

the BNSS contemplates a situation where the officer-in-charge of

the police station on receiving an information which has disclosed

not merely any cognizable offence but a cognizable offence which

is punishable (with imprisonment) for three years or more but
 Page 13

less than seven years, in such a case, the officer in charge of the

police station may conduct a preliminary enquiry to ascertain

whether a prima facie case is made out. 6(v) Section 173(4) specifies that any person aggrieved by

a refusal on the part of an officer in charge of a police station to

record the information referred to in sub-section (1), may send

such information, in writing and by post, to the Superintendent of

Police concerned who, if satisfied that such information discloses

the commission of a cognizable offence, shall either investigate

the case himself or direct an investigation to be made by any

police officer subordinate to him, in the manner provided under

BNSS, and such officer shall have all the powers of an officer in

charge of the police station in relation to that offence failing

which such aggrieved person may make an application to

the Magistrate. "28. Section 154 of the CrPC does not provide for making any preliminary inquiry. However, as held in the
 case of Lalita Kumari, a preliminary inquiry is permissible if the information received does not disclose a
 cognizable offence and indicates the necessity for an inquiry. A preliminary inquiry must be conducted only
 to ascertain whether a cognizable offence is disclosed. However, sub-Section (3) of Section 173 of the BNSS
 makes a significant departure from Section 154 of the CrPC. It provides that when information relating to
 the commission of a cognizable offence which is made punishable for 3 years or more but less than 7 years
 is received by an officer-in-charge of a police station, with the prior permission of a superior officer as
 mentioned therein, the police officer is empowered to conduct a preliminary inquiry to ascertain whether
 there exists a prima facie case for proceeding in the matter. However, under Section 154 of the CrPC, as
 held in the case of Lalita Kumari, only a limited preliminary inquiry is permissible to ascertain whether the
 information received discloses a cognizable offence. Moreover, a preliminary inquiry can be made under
 the CrPC only if the information does not disclose the commission of a cognizable offence but indicates the
 necessity for an inquiry. Sub-Section (3) of Section 173 of the BNSS is an exception to sub-Section (1) of
 Section 173. In the category of cases covered by sub-Section (3), a police officer is empowered to make a
 preliminary inquiry to ascertain whether a prima facie case is made out for proceeding in the matter even
 if the information received discloses commission of any cognizable offence. That is very apparent as sub-
 Section (3) of Section 173 refers explicitly to receiving information relating to the commission of a
 cognizable offence. Therefore, in a case where sub-Section (3) of Section 173 is applicable, even if the
 information pertaining to the commission of any cognizable offence is received, an inquiry can be
 conducted to ascertain whether a prima facie case exists for proceeding in the matter. The intention
 appears to be to prevent the registration of FIRs in frivolous cases where punishment is up to 7 years, even
 if the information discloses the commission of the cognizable offence. However, under Section 154 of the
 Page 14 CrPC , the inquiry permitted by paragraph 120.2 of the decision in the case of Lalita Kumari is limited only
 to ascertain whether the cognizable offence is disclosed. 29. Under sub-Section (3) of Section 173 of the BNSS, after holding a preliminary inquiry, if the officer
 comes to a conclusion that a prima facie case exists to proceed, he should immediately register an FIR and
 proceed to investigate. But, if he is of the view that a prima facie case is not made out to proceed, he
 should immediately inform the first informant/complainant so that he can avail a remedy under sub-
 Section (4) of Section 173. 30. Before we go into the applicability of sub-Section (3) of Section 173 of the BNSS to the facts of the case,
 we must deal with sub-Section (1) of Section 173. Take a case where a person approaches an officer-in-
 charge of a police station either personally or by electronic communication and alleges that he has seen 'A'
 assaulting 'X' with a stick. If the injury caused is simple, it will be an offence punishable under Section 115
 (2) of the BNS. As per the first Schedule of the BNSS, it is a non-cognizable offence. Therefore, based on
 such information, FIR cannot be registered. If grievous hurt is caused, it will be an offence punishable
 under Section 117 (2) of the BNS, which is a cognizable offence. Therefore, the allegations made in the
 information furnished to an officer-in-charge of a police station must be examined by the officer only with
 a view to ascertain whether a cognizable offence is made out. Taking the information as correct, the officer
 has to determine whether it makes out a case of the commission of a cognizable offence. If the allegation
 makes out a case of a cognizable offence, unless the offence falls in sub-Section (3) of Section 173, it is
 mandatory to register FIR. 31. Coming back to the offence punishable under Section 196 of the BNS to decide whether the words,
 either spoken or written or by sign or by visible representations or through electronic communication or
 otherwise, lead to the consequences provided in the Section. The police officer to whom information is
 furnished will have to read or hear the words written or spoken, and by taking the same as correct, decide
 whether an offence under Section 196 is made out. Reading of written words, or hearing spoken words will
 be necessary to determine whether the contents make out a case of the commission of a cognizable
 offence. The same is the case with offences punishable under Sections 197, 299 and 302 of the BNS.
 Therefore, to ascertain whether the information received by an officer-in-charge of the police station
 makes out a cognizable offence, the officer must consider the meaning of the spoken or written words.
 This act on the part of the police officer will not amount to making a preliminary inquiry which is not
 permissible under sub-Section (1) of Section 173. 32. We will give an example. A person utters the following words. "If the rulers attack me, I will not
 retaliate and, on the contrary, face the attack with love. If I do that, it will lead to the defeat of the rulers."
 If the person who furnishes information, alleges that these words are spoken or written to promote
 enmity between different groups as provided in Section 196, while deciding whether the information is of
 commission of a cognizable offence, the officer concerned will have to read and understand the meaning
 of the alleged spoken words. This exercise does not amount to making a preliminary inquiry which is
 prohibited under sub-Section (1) of Section 173 of BNSS. 33. Sub-Section (3) of Section 173 of the BNSS confers a discretion on the officer receiving information
 relating to the commission of a cognizable offence to conduct a preliminary inquiry to ascertain whether a
 prima facie case exists to proceed. This option is available when the offence alleged is made punishable for
 3 years or more but less than 7 years. In the facts of the case, all the offences except the offence under Section 57 of the BNS are punishable by imprisonment for less than 7 years. Section 57 , on the face of it, is
 not applicable. Therefore, this option was also available to the police officer in the present case. The
 officer did not exercise the said option". Further, in paras 53.1 and 53.2, the apex court held thus- 31.3 Further, the requirement of an application supported by an affidavit, which is expressly stipulated in
sub-section (3) of Section 175, is conspicuously absent in sub-section (4) thereof. If sub-section (4) of Section
175 is construed in isolation, on its plain reading, such a requirement is entirely absent. We find no
discernible reason for the Parliament to prescribe this procedural safeguard in sub-section (3) while
omitting it in sub-section (4), thereby undermining the safeguard which Priyanka Srivastava (supra)
propounded. Had sub-section (4) of Section 175 been intended to operate as an independent provision, it
would be reasonable to expect an express exclusion of all the attendant procedural safeguards (the
requirement of an affidavit and prior recourse to the Superintendent of Police).
31.4 In addition to the above, the placement of sub-section (4) immediately after sub-section (3) and not as
an independent section also persuades us to not read sub-section (4) as a provision that is independent or
stands alone. IS SUB-SECTION (4) TO BE READ AS A PROVISO TO SUB-SECTION (3) OF SECTION 175? 32. A proviso is an internal aid to construction. It is appended to a section of an enactment or any sub-
section of a section. 33. In Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. Asstt. CST, this Court held that it is a cardinal rule of interpretation that a
proviso to a particular provision of a statute only embraces the field which is covered by the main provision.
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other. 34. In State of Rajasthan v. Vinod Kumar , a coordinate Bench noted several precedents and held as follows: 35. In our considered opinion, sub-section (4) of Section 175 cannot be considered a proviso for the
following reasons: 36. We are, thus, not inclined to hold that sub-section (4) has to be read as a proviso to sub-section (3) of
Section 175. CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION 175(4) 37. Having held that sub-section (4) of Section 175 is neither an independent / a standalone provision nor a
proviso to sub-section (3) thereof, the next question that arises is in relation to the manner in which it
ought to be construed. Page 16

37.1 On a plain and contextual reading of the scheme of Section 175, we find that sub-section (3) vests the
judicial magistrate (empowered under Section 210) with the power to order investigation, while subsection
(4) while conferring similar power additionally prescribes a special procedural safeguard to be observed by
the judicial magistrate (empowered under Section 210) where the proposed direction could concern a
public servant. While the authority to direct investigation flows from sub-section (3) as well as from sub-
section
(4), the latter provides a qualifying procedural layer. 37.2 Ordinarily, sub-sections of a section of an Act usually deal with related, parallel aspects with one sub-
section dealing with a general principle and the other providing for a specific aspect, on its own terms.
Viewed in this light, sub-section (3) lays down the general principle whereas sub-section (4) dives into
specifics of public servants in the given situation, introducing an additional procedural requirement before
the power to order investigation is exercised. Consequently, the exercise of power to order investigation
must be preceded by satisfaction of not only the conditions expressly stated in sub-section (4) but also
those implicit and traceable to sub-section (3). 37.3 Much has been argued by Mr. Dave by referring to the opening words of both sub-sections (3) and (4),
which read as "Any Magistrate empowered under section 210", to buttress his contention that if the
requirements of sub-section (4) were intended to operate in addition to sub-section (3), the legislature, in
sub-section (4), would have used the expression "Any such Magistrate as above ..." or the like. Having given
the contention serious consideration and without being too critical of the legislative draftsman's efforts,
what we infer from the expression "Any Magistrate empowered under section 210" is the emphasis or
stress being laid on who is competent to order investigation, namely, the judicial magistrate empowered
under Section 210, both by sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 175. However, in a case to which sub-section
(4) is prima facie attracted, the additional requirements need also be complied with. Nothing much,
therefore, turns on the similarity of the words used. 37.4 The use of the expression "complaint" in sub-section (4) also does not alter this position. Clause (h) of
sub-section (1) of Section 2 , BNSS defines "complaint" to mean "any allegation made orally or in writing to
a Magistrate, with a view to his taking action under this Sanhita, that some person, whether known or
unknown, has committed an offence, but does not include a police report". Though the definition of
"complaint" under clause (h), as aforesaid, taken literally, includes oral complaints, the definition clause
( Section 2 , BNSS) (commonly known as the "dictionary clause" for understanding words and expressions
used in enactments) itself qualifies every definition with the rider "(U)nless the context otherwise requires,
...". In the context of sub-section (4), which operates only as a procedural adjunct to sub-section (3), the
word "complaint" in such context clearly requires to be understood in the sense of an 'allegation' relating to
commission of an offence which, for reasons we propose to discuss hereafter, must be in the form of a
written complaint supported by an affidavit and may not include any allegation orally made.
37.5 One mandatory requirement of sub-section (3) is that the application seeking an order for investigation
must be supported by an affidavit. It is true that sub-section (4) does not expressly require receipt by a
magistrate of a written complaint but refers to a "complaint" only. However, it is illogical that a magistrate
would be precluded from ordering investigation against a person who is not a public servant without an
affidavit supporting the allegations of cognisable offence committed by him, but may order an investigation
against a public servant without needing the informant to swear to the allegations.
37.6 Since sub-section (4) of Section 175 merely provides an additional protective layer in cases involving
public servants, all mandatory procedural requirements governing the exercise of power under subsection
(3) of Section 175, in our opinion, must necessarily be complied with. Any contrary interpretation would
result in incorporation of the procedural safeguard taking cue from the judicial precedent in Priyanka
Srivastava (supra) in sub-section (3) being robbed off much of its substance. Consequently, a complaint
against a public servant, which triggers the procedure under sub-section (4) must, in our view, be also
founded on an affidavit. 37.7 The reasons discussed above suffice for us to conclude that an application alleging commission of
offence(s) by public servants in discharge of their official duties must also be supported by affidavit.
37.8 Looked from another angle and in addition to the reasons discussed above, there is one more reason
for our conclusion. Cognizant of the increasing number of complaints against judicial officers of the trial
judiciary, and to prevent harassment of such officers, the Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India vide a
communication addressed to the Chief Justices of the High Courts emphasized the necessity to ensure that
such complaints should not be entertained unless supported by affidavit. The said communication was later
circulated as a circular by the Government of India, Ministry of Law and Justice.
37.9 When the authenticity of allegations against a judicial officer is required to be supported by an
affidavit, there exists equal justification to insist upon a similar requirement in the case of public servants as
well. No rational basis is discernible for drawing a distinction with regard to the insistence on an affidavit.
The object underlying such a requirement is common in both cases, namely, to weed out false, frivolous, or
vexatious complaints and to strike a balance between bringing public servants to book and protecting them
against abuse of the judicial process. 38. Accordingly, in our firm opinion, sub-sections (3) and (4) must be read harmoniously, with the latter
understood as a procedural restraint upon the power conferred under both the sub-sections for ordering an
investigation, and not as a substantive substitute for the former. 39. To give meaning, we hold that the opening words in sub-section (4) which reads "Any Magistrate
empowered under Section 210, may, upon receiving a complaint against a public servant ......" have to be
purposively read as 'Any Magistrate empowered under Section 210, may, upon receiving a complaint in
writing against a public servant of commission of offence arising in course of the discharge of his official
duties, supported by an affidavit, order investigation, subject to ... '. 40. So read, in the case of public servants, where the allegation is that an offence was committed in course
of the discharge of official duties, the law now provides a two-tier protection. The first operates at the
threshold stage, in the form of additional safeguards under sub-section (4) of Section 175 (when a prayer is
made seeking an order for investigation against a public servant), and next under sub-section (1) of Section
218 (before cognizance is taken of the offence alleged). The second tier, with which we are presently not
 Page 17

concerned, operates at the stage of taking cognizance when the "previous sanction" of the concerned
Government is required. 41. We make it clear that an affidavit, such as the one referred to in subsection (3) of Section 175, must fulfil
the conditions provided in Section 333, BNSS which reads as follows: SUMMARY OF THE DISCUSSION 42. Sub-section (3) and sub-section (4) of Section 175 are not isolated silos but must be read in harmony
with sub-section (4) forming an extension of sub-section (3). 43. The power to order investigation is conferred upon a judicial magistrate by sub-section (3) of Section 175. Sub-section (4) of Section 175 too confers such power but prescribes a special procedure to be followed
in case of a complaint against a public servant alleging commission of offences in the discharge of official
duties. 44. The expression "complaint" in sub-section (4) of Section 175 does not encompass oral complaints.
Having regard to the text of the provision and the context in which it is set, and in light of our conclusion
that subsection (4) is not a provision which stands alone or is a proviso to subsection (3), the term must
derive its meaning in sync with allegations of cognisable offence levelled in an application of the nature
referred to in sub-section (3) of Section 175, i.e., an application supported by affidavit.
WHEN MUST SECTION 175 (4) BE INVOKED - A GUIDE FOR JUDICIAL MAGISTRATES 45. Having clarified the symbiotic relationship between sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 175, it is
indispensable to indicate the circumstances in which the procedure under sub-section (4) could get
activated. Significantly, sub-section (4) of Section 175 uses the modal verb "may" and not 'shall'. In the
context where it finds place and the object that is sought to be achieved, "may" has to be read as "may",
bearing an element of discretion, and not 'shall'. The principles, discussed in the following paragraphs, are
intended to guide judicial magistrates at the stage of considering applications under Section 175. 46. Upon receiving a complaint under sub-section (4) of Section 175, BNSS alleging commission of an offence
by a public servant arising in course of the discharge of his official duties, the magistrate may do either of
the following: section (4) of Section 175 are not attracted, the complaint may be dealt with in accordance with the general
procedure prescribed under sub-section (3) of Section 175. 47. It is hereby clarified that the judicial magistrate would continue to retain the authority to reject an
application under sub-section (3) of Section 175, lodged against a public servant, where such magistrate
finds that the allegations made therein are wholly untenable, manifestly absurd, or so inherently
improbable that no reasonable person could conclude that any offence is disclosed. However, it is needless
to observe, such an order of rejection ought not to be based on whims and fancy but must have the support
of valid reasons. 48. A situation may arise where, in an appropriate case, the judicial magistrate has called for a report from
the concerned superior officer under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of Section 175, but such officer fails to
comply with the direction or does not submit the report within a reasonable period of time. What is the
course open to the magistrate in such a situation? In the unlikely event of such a situation, we hold, the
judicial magistrate is not obliged to wait indefinitely for compliance and may proceed further in accordance
with sub-section (3) of Section 175 after considering the version of the accused public servant under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of Section 175, if on record. What would constitute 'reasonable time' cannot be
determined in rigid or inflexible terms and must necessarily depend upon the facts and circumstances of
each case before the judicial magistrate who has to take the call.
QUESTION (A) : WHETHER THE SINGLE JUDGE EXCEEDED HIS JURISDICTION? 49. Perusing the prayers in the writ petition, we find that the appellant had sought directions for
registration of an FIR, securing compliance with this Court's directions in Lalita Kumari (supra), and for a
declaration that the acts of the police officials were not in the discharge of official functions and, therefore,
not covered by the protection afforded under Section 175(4), BNSS. 50. Should the Single Judge have entertained the writ petition, interpreted Section 175(4) and granted relief
to the appellant? We think not. 51. As rightly held by the Division Bench, the Single Judge could not have granted relief that the appellant
did not pray. We may profitably refer to the decisions of this Court in Krishna Priya Ganguly v. University of
Lucknow30 , Om Prakash v. Ram Kumar31 and Bharat Amratlal Kothari v. Dosukhan Samadkhan Sindhi32 where this Court held that the writ court will, normally, grant relief that is prayed; and, though discretion to
 Page 18

 grant relief under Article 226 is wide, the writ court cannot, ignoring and keeping aside the norms and
 principles governing grant of relief, proceed to grant a relief not even prayed by the petitioner. 52. Having prayed for directions in the writ petition to register an FIR and to secure compliance with the
 directions made by this Court in Lalita Kumari (supra) and that too, at a stage, when the JMFC seized of the
 application under Section 210 read with sub-section (4) of Section 173, BNSS had called for a report in
 exercise of power conferred by subsection (4) of Section 175, there was no occasion for the Single Judge to
 interpret sub-section (4) and interfere with the proceedings that had been set in motion pursuant to the
 order of the JMFC. The Single Judge would have been justified in interpreting the law if the order of the
 JMFC, by which he had called for a report in accordance with sub-section (4) of Section 175, BNSS been
 challenged in a petition under Section 528 thereof or even under Article 227 of the Constitution - which is
 not the case here. The JMFC having called for a report from the superior police officer by his order, it was a
 judicial order passed in exercise of power conferred by sub-section (4) of Section 175. A three-Judge Bench
 of this Court in Radhe Shyam v. Chhabi Nath33 has held that a judicial order in a civil matter cannot be
 challenged in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. In Pradnya Pranjal Kulkarni v. State of
 Maharashtra34, the principle has been extended by this Court to judicial orders passed in criminal matters.
 Notwithstanding that such a judicial order could not have been challenged in a writ petition under Article
 226 of the Constitution and despite the absence of any challenge to the JMFC's order, the Single Judge
 directed the Magistrate to pass an order in accordance with the law that such Judge declared. This was
 plainly impermissible. Nevertheless, as directed by the Single Judge, the JMFC proceeded to direct
 registration of an FIR against the accused persons. In effect, the Single Judge directed the Magistrate to
 recall his own order - which again constitutes exercise of a power unknown to the law of criminal
 procedure. 53. We, thus, agree with the Division Bench that the facts before the Single Judge did not call for an
 interpretation of sub-section (4) of Section 175, BNSS. QUESTION (B): WHETHER IN THE PRESENT CASE, THE ALLEGED ACTS OF THE PUBLIC SERVANTS WERE IN THE
 DISCHARGE OF THEIR OFFICIAL DUTIES? 54. The answer to this question should well be avoided having regard to the particular jurisdiction of the
 High Court, which the appellant had invoked, coupled with the pendency of the appellant's application
 before the JMFC. We, thus, refrain from so answering lest any observation prejudicially affects any party to
 the proceedings before the JMFC. Invocation of the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution by
 the appellant was ill-advised. Not only did the appellant approach the writ court when proceedings before
 the JMFC under Section 175, BNSS were underway and thereby indulged in pursuing parallel remedies, no
 interference was even merited having regard to the relief claimed. 55. Be that as it may, at the insistence of the parties, we now proceed on a limited examination as to
 whether the appellant could at all have sought any declaratory relief of the nature claimed before the Single
 Judge in the writ petition. 56. Although declaratory relief can, inter alia, be sought before a writ court and granted by it upon
 establishment of a threatened breach or an apprehended breach of a legal right at the instance of a
 respondent, being a public authority, the nature of declaratory relief prayed by the appellant could not have
 been granted by the writ court without a challenge being mounted to the order of the JMFC calling for a
 report. Seeking a declaratory relief that the acts of offence committed by the accused public servants did
 not arise in the discharge of official duties by them without the order of the JMFC (calling for a report) being
 challenged would have necessarily required the writ court to embark on a fact-finding exercise in that
 behalf, as if it were a court of a magistrate. A writ court is a court exercising high prerogative writ
 jurisdiction; such court could not have been urged by the appellant to convert itself into a court for
 conducting sort of a magisterial inquiry. The Single Judge overlooked this fundamental flaw. 57. Thus, no relief could have been granted by the High Court to the appellant in exercise of writ
 jurisdiction." 7. Coming to the issue of relief sought for by the

petitioner to register a specific case under the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)

Act, 1989 . A mere allegation of preparing a fake birth certificate

and Bangladeshi ID card does not automatically trigger

the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. From the written

complaint, it is seen that petitioner only has assumed that the

conspirators might have prepared fake Bangladeshi Birth

Certificate and Bangladeshi Voter ID card in respect of him, but
 Page 19

the petitioner failed to provide any supporting documentation,

evidence, or prima facie proof of the alleged offense under

the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Further, the complaint

itself does not demonstrate prima facie any intent on the part of

Mr. Sarkar to insult or intimidate the petitioner-complainant in

order to humiliate him, as being a member of a scheduled caste

or scheduled tribe. Furthermore, as per the complaint, the

petitioner has sought for registering the FIR under Indian

Information Technology Act, 2000 . After preliminary inquiry, the

respondent no. 4 by his communication dated 08.11.2025

reached to a conclusion that Sections 66-C , 66-D , 67 and 67-A of

the IT Act, are not prima facie established. Section 66-C and 66-

D of the Act, deals with fraud, identity theft, or impersonation

using computer resources whereas Section 67 and 67-A of the

Act deals with publishing or transmitting obscene or sexually

explicit material in electronic form. From the complaint itself, it is

revealed that no offence of publication or transmission of any

material in electronic form, as provided under Section 67 of the

IT act, is made out. Equally, no case of publication or

transmission of material containing sexually explicit act or

conduct, as provided under Section 67A , is made out from the

bare reading of the complaint. Even in the complaint itself there

is insufficient evidence to establish fraudulent or dishonest intent,

to prove Mr. Sarkar had caused damage to a computer system,

as required by the law under Section 66 of the IT Act, 2000. Furthermore, the complainant has also failed to prove that he
 Page 20

has received any offensive message through any digital/

electronic media or that Mr. Sarkar or his associates have

dishonestly received any stolen computer resource of

communication or that Mr. Sarkar has fraudulently or dishonestly

used electronic signature, password or any other unique

identification of the complainant or Mr. Sarkar and his associates

have cheated the complainant by personation or has intentionally

or deliberately published or captured or transmitted the image of

private area of the complainant without his consent, thus, the

complaint does not disclose any offense to come under the

purview of any of sub-sections of Section 66 of the IT Act, 2000. The entire matter is only at a premature stage and the

investigation has not proceeded with except some preliminary

effort taken on the date of the registration of the case. The

evidence has to be gathered after a thorough investigation. At

this stage, when there are only allegations and recriminations but

no evidence, this Court cannot anticipate the result of the

investigation and render a finding on the question of mala fides

on the materials at present available. Thus, the conclusion

reached at by the respondent No.4 is correct and requires no

interference. 8. From the communication dated 08.11.2025 issued by

the respondent No.4, it is evidently clear that after enquiry

ingredients of cognizable offence have not been revealed and in

conformity with Section 173 BNSS, 2023, FIR has not been

registered but, the respondent No. 4 has clarified that as and
 Page 21

when fresh and verifiable evidence regarding cognizable offence

will come to light, the matter will be reopened forthwith in

accordance with law. Thus, the respondent no. 4 has acted in

consonance with the provisions of BNSS, 2023, which according

to this court, is acceptable. From the very elaboration of Section

173(3) of the BNSS, 2023, police can decline to register an FIR

after a preliminary inquiry if the offense carries a punishment of

3 to 7 years and no prima facie case is found. From the above

catenae of decisions rendered by the apex court, where it has

been pointed out that a complainant can approach the High Court

if a Magistrate refuses to direct the police to file an FIR. In this

case, without exhausting the remedies under Section 173(1) and 173(4) of BNSS, 2023, the petitioner has approached this High

Court by filing the instant writ petition for mandamus, which

according to this court is not permissible in the set facts of this

case. 9. In view of the allegations made by the petitioner on

the basis of Voter ID card of Bangladesh, the provisions under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)

Act, 1989 and the Indian Information Technology Act, 2000 , do

not attract and, thus, the relief sought for is ex facie irrelevant. Insofar as other allegations are concerned, the same are non- cognizable and bailable, and thus, the communication made by

the respondent No.4 dated 08.11.2025 needs no interference and

the same stands upheld. Since the entire complaint runs in the

existence of BNSS, 2023, any procedure under Cr.P.C . and IPC Page 22

cannot be made applicable and old criminal laws i.e. Cr.P.C . and IPC are irrelevant to the facts of the case and are redundant. 10. Once specific provision provided under the BNSS,

2023 was considered, and directions/observations have been

issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, this Court does not deem

it appropriate to issue any mandamus directing the authorities

for consideration of the petitioner's complaint since the same is

barred under Section 173(1) and 173(4) of BNSS. 11. With the above discussions and observations made,

this writ petition is liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, the same

is dismissed. However, the petitioner is at liberty to approach the

concerned Magistrate by filing an appropriate application under

the appropriate provisions of BNSS, 2023, if so desired. 12. As a sequel, pending application(s), if any, stands

closed and disposed of.