(Per
: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE AKIL KURESHI) 1.	Every
once in a rare while, field of law throws up an issue around which
reams and reams worth pages of literature - judicial
pronouncements as also commentary of learned authors - is
available, but a decision that will fit your case perfectly eludes 
you. One such issue, which has generated considerable public
interest has arisen in this litigation. 2.	
By this judgment, we propose to dispose of two writ petitions and
connected Civil Applications. Special Civil Application No.12632 of
2011 has been filed by the State seeking a writ in the nature of
quo warranto or any other appropriate writ or direction in the
matter of appointment of respondent No.1 as Lokayukta pursuant to the
impugned warrant dated 25.8.2011 issued by Her Excellency the
Governor of Gujarat. Special Civil Application No.13499 of 2011 has
been filed by one Shri V.K.Saxena, President of the National Council
for Civil Liberties. This petition is styled in the nature of public
 interest litigation. The petitioner therein also prays for a writ
of quo warranto or a writ in the nature of quo warranto or any other
appropriate order or direction to quash and set aside the
appointment of Shri R.A.Mehta, Retired Judge of the Gujarat High
Court as Lokayukta. 2.1	Several
Civil Applications have been filed seeking impleadment of parties
in the petition of the State. At the outset, we have made it clear 
that we would not be granting such requests to be joined as
additional respondents, but we assured the learned counsel for the 
applicants that they would be allowed to raise all contentions
and such contentions will also be taken into account. They had
accepted such a formula and accordingly, we have heard the counsel
for such applicants also in addition to the Counsel for the State,
Counsel for the private petitioner as well as the counsel for the 
Secretary to the Chief Justice. Respondent No.1 has, in tune with
his dignity, not participated in these proceedings. 3.		Facts
in brief may be noted at the outset as stated in the writ petition
filed by the State. As noted, what is under challenge is the
appointment of Shri R.A.Mehta, Retired Judge of the Gujarat High
Court as Lokayukta made by the Governor of Gujarat. We would be
taking note of minute details of the relevant events as emerging
from the documents supplied to us by the State, Secretary to the
Hon'ble Chief Justice as well as presented before us on behalf of
the Governor. At this stage, suffice it to notice that the State has
four main objections to the manner in which Shri R.A.Mehta was
appointed as Lokayukta by the Governor by issuing notification dated
25th August 2011. The said objections are : 4.		To
appreciate these objections, it would be necessary to look minutely
at the events leading to the issuance of impugned notification
dated 25th August 2011. 5.	In
the State of Gujarat, Legislature has enacted the Gujarat Lokayukta
Act, 1986 (hereinafter to be referred to as 'the Act'). Section 3 of
the Act pertains to appointment of Lokayukta. Previously, a retired 
Judge of the Gujarat High Court Shri S.M.Soni was appointed as
Lokayukta. He relinquished the office on 24th November
2003. Since then the post of Lokayukta is lying vacant. From the file
supplied to us, we do not have any information as to what steps, if
any, were taken to fill up the said post between 23rd 
November 2003 to August 2006 when the Chief Minister of the State
wrote to the Chief Justice stating as under: In
response to the said communication, the then Acting Chief Justice
Shri Y.R.Meena replied on 7th August 2006 stating as
under: 5.1		The
then Governor of Gujarat, however, had certain reservations about 
appointment of Shri K.R.Vyas, Former Chief Justice of the Bombay High
Court as Lokayukta in view of the fact that he was appointed as
Chairman of Human Rights Commission of the State of Maharashtra. The
Governor, therefore, on February 6, 2009 conveyed to the State as
under: ment
 under the Government of a State or
 

			under
 the Government of India. In
view of the above provision of law, it appears to me that Hon'ble 
Justice (Retired) Shri Kshitij R. Vyas is no longer available for
appointment as Lokayukta, Gujarat State since even after his ceasing
to hold the office of the Chairman, Human Rights Commission of the
Maharashtra State, he is not eligible for further employment. It
is therefore appropriate that the present proposal is treated as
closed and the State Government is informed to make a fresh proposal
in due compliance with the requirements laid down by law." 5.2		Government
of Gujarat was, however, of the opinion that the appointment of Shri
K.R.Vyas as the Chairman, Human Rights Commission would not make
him ineligible for appointment as Lokayukta. A request was therefore
made to the Governor to reconsider the issue. On behalf of the
Governor on 10th September 2009, in response to the
State's request for reconsideration of the previous decision, it was
conveyed as under: 5.3		On
September 10, 2009, on behalf of the Governor the Chief Minister was
requested to send a fresh proposal for appointment of Lokayukta 
after consultation with the Chief Justice of the State and the Leader
of Opposition. It was stated thus: 5.4		After
the said communication, the Chief Minister, conveyed to the Chief
Justice under his communication dated February 8, 2010 as under: 5.5		On
24th February 2010, the Chief Justice of the State, 
recommended a panel of four names for appointment to the post of
Lokayukta. He mentioned that such names are not shown on the basis
of preference and any one of them may be appointed. He stated : 5.6		On
2nd March 2010, the Chief Minister wrote to the Leader of
Opposition to participate in the process of consultation for
appointment of Lokayukta for which a meeting would be held on 4th
March 2010. On 3rd March, the Leader of Opposition wrote
back to the Chief Minister objecting to the Chief Minister 
initiating the process of consultation. He was of the opinion that
such initiation was contrary to the express provisions of the Act. 
He, in short, declined to participate in any such consultative
process. 5.7		The
meeting for consultation of the Leader of Opposition was conducted in
his absence. Minutes of the meeting held on 22nd March
2010 were drawn. It was recorded that the Chief Minister found the
name of Hon'ble Mr. Justice (Retired) J.R.Vora as most suitable 
for appointment as Lokayukta in the State of Gujarat. It was also
noted that : The
Chief Minister directed that the name of Justice J.R.Vora be placed
before the Council of Ministers to obtain approval. The Council of
Ministers also approved the name, as is apparent in the note dated
1.4.2010. 5.8.	On
 3rd May 2010, the Governor wrote to the Chief Justice
indicating that : The
Governor consequently, requested the Chief Justice to recommend only
one suitable name for appointment of the Lokayukta. 5.9		It
appears that the Governor of Gujarat, however, had some reservation 
about the manner in which the name of Shri J.R.Vora was approved. 
She, therefore, sent a note dated 5.5.2010 to the Chief Minister 
indicating, inter alia, that as per the decision of the Apex Court
in the case of N.Kannaasan v. Ajoy Khose (2009) 7 SCC 1,
recommendation of panel of four persons by the Chief Justice would
not be in accordance with law. She stated that she had taken the
opinion of the learned Attorney General of India. She had accordingly
referred the matter back to the Chief Justice to re-examine the
matter and recommend only one name for appointment as Lokayukta. 
She further added that : 5.10		In
response to the request of the Governor to recommend only one name 
instead of a panel of names, the Chief Justice conveyed to her on
31st December 2010 as under: The
Governor, in turn, under her communication dated 6th
January 2011 to the Chief Minster requested to process the matter
expeditiously in connection with the recommendation of the Chief
Justice recommending the name of Shir S.D.Dave. It was stated that
the same may be done at the earliest since keeping such an important
 post vacant any longer would not be in the interest of good
governance. 5.11		On
21.2.2011, the Chief Minister, addressed a letter to the Chief
Justice, reiterating the State's request for consulting Shri J.R.Vora
on his willingness for being considered for appointment as
Lokayukta. It was stated thus: He
was of the opinion that since the entire procedure for appointment of
 Shri J.R.Vora had already been gone through, it will be in public
interest that he joins the said post so that the entire process may
not have to be gone through afresh. 5.12		Since
 Shri J.R.Vora was already appointed as Director of the Gujarat
State Judicial Academy the Chief Justice on 22nd March
2011, wrote a letter to the Chief Minister stating that : 5.13		On
4th May 2011, the Chief Minister wrote to the Chief
Justice indicating that though the name of Shri S.D.Dave was
recommended by the Chief Justice, on being consulted, he informed
that he has already sent a fax to the Governor requesting to recall
his nomination due to personal circumstances. The Chief Minister,
once again, repeated the request for recommending the name of Shri
J.R.Vora stating that he had confirmed that Shri Vora would resign 
from the post of Director of State Judicial Academy. 5.14		On
7th June 2011, the Chief Justice wrote to the Chief
Minister stating that he had already mentioned in his earlier
correspondence that as Hon'ble Mr.Justice J.R.Vora has already been
appointed as Director of State Judicial Academy, in the interest of
judiciary, his name may not be considered for appointment to the
post of Lokayukta. He further stated that in view of the 
development that Shri S.D.Dave would not like to be considered, he
had considered Hon'ble Mr. Justice R.A.Mehta suitable for
appointment to the post. In the said letter, the Chief Justice
stated as under: Simultaneously,
 on 7th June 2011, the Chief Justice also wrote to the 
Governor, stating that : 5.15		On
7th June 2011, the Governor also wrote to the Chief
Minister stating that she had received a proposal from the Chief
Justice recommending the name of Shri R.A.Mehta for appointment to
the post of Lokayukta. She, therefore, requested that : 5.16		On
16th June 2011, the Chief Minister wrote to the Chief
Justice and raised certain concerns about the recommendation of Shri 
R.A.Mehta. In this respect, he stated that : He
once again repeated the request for clearing the name of Shri
J.R.Vora in whose case, the whole consultation, etc. as envisaged 
in the Gujarat Lokayukta Act, 1986 had been gone through. He,
therefore, requested the Chief Justice to reconsider the matter 
and recommend the name of Shri J.R.Vora for appointment as Lokayukta. 5.17		On
2nd August 2011, the Chief Justice wrote to the Chief
Minister and stated that : I,
therefore, request you to take up the matter with the Council of
Minsters and to forward the name of Mr. Justice(Retd.) R.A. Mehta to
Her Excellency the Governor of Gujarat for his appointment as
Lokayukta of the State of Gujarat. I
am forwarding a copy of this communication to Her Excellency the
Governor of Gujarat for kind information and perusal." 5.18	On
16th August, 2011, the Governor wrote to the Chief
Minister and requested the Chief Minister to send the formal
proposal of Shri R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta. She stated as under : 5.19		On
18th August 2011, once the Chief Minister addressed a
letter to the Chief Justice raising several issues with respect to
the recommendation of Shri R.A.Mehta for the post of Lokayukta. In
the said letter, the Chief Minister had indicated the instances,
which according to him would show certain pre-judged bias on the
part of Shri R.A.Mehta against the present administration and in
particular his views on the Surat Floods leading to large scale loss
of property as also on the unfortunate riots which took place in
the State of Gujarat post-Godhra train burning incident in the year
2002. The Chief Minister cited certain instances where Shri
R.A.Mehta had participated in public hearing and in the conclusion
portion of the letter it was stated that : 6.	At
this stage, we may also note that the Gujarat Lokayukta (Amendment)
 Bill, 2011 (Gujarat Bill No.29 of 2011) was passed by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Gujarat on 30th
March 2011 which primarily sought to widen the definition of 
"public functionary' contained in section 2(7) of the Act by 
including various authorities, such as, the Mayor or the Deputy
Mayor of a municipal corporation, the President or the
Vice-President of a municipality, the Sarpanch or the Up-Sarpanch 
of a village panchayat, the President or the Vice-President of a
taluka panchayat or a district panchayat, etc. Such bill when
presented before the Governor for promulgation was returned with a
recommendation to consider her objection. It was pointed out that
there are large number of local bodies in Gujarat including 14000 
Village Panchayats, 225 Taluka Panchayats, 26 District Panchayats,
159 Municipalities and 8 Municipal Corporations. She was, therefore,
of the opinion that the Lokayukta howsoever competent and efficient
would not be able to look into the complaints of irregularities
against such large number of persons. 7.		The
State thereupon issued an ordinance, further amending the Gujarat
Lokayukta Act, 1986 . Such ordinance contained several changes in
the Act, including section 3 thereof. Instead of the existing section 3 , it, inter alia, provided for an institution of Lokayukta
to consist of the Chairperson, who is or has been a Judge of the
High Court and such number of members not exceeding two. It also
provided that for the purpose of conducting investigation in
accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Governor shall with
the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers appoint a Lokayukta. 
 Such appointment shall be made after obtaining recommendation of a
committee consisting of the following: 8.	The
said ordinance was, however, returned by the Governor citing several
reasons including that she could not see any urgency in bringing
about such an ordinance all of a sudden. Besides, the Chief Justice
has already forwarded a proposal for appointment of Lokayukta and the
same was at the final stage of issuance of notification. She,
therefore, stated that "in view of the above, I fail to
appreciate the need of promulgating the proposed ordinance. As
such, I am returning the Government file with the above
observations". 9.		The
Ordinance was once again forwarded to the Governor on or around 20th
August 2011. This was done pursuant to the office note dated 18th
 August 2011 of the General Administration Department. The
Governor, however, once again stuck to her views and returned the 
Ordinance saying "in view of the above, I do not see any
justification in promulgating the proposed Ordinance at this
juncture; and accordingly, I return herewith the Government file with
the above observations." 10.		On
the basis of the above factual sequence, several issues have arisen
before us. The principal question is of the legality of the
notification issued by the Governor on 25th August 2011 
appointing Shri R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta of the State of Gujarat. 11.	At
the centre of the controversy are the nature of powers exercised by
the Governor under section 3 of the Act which provides, inter alia, 
that for the purpose of conducting investigation in accordance with
the provisions of the Act, the Governor shall by warrant under his
hand and seal, appoint a person to be known as the Lokayukta. Such
powers are required to be viewed in light of the powers of the
Governor particularly under Article 163 of the Constitution, which
reads as under: 12.		On
behalf of the State, the learned Advocate General raised the
following contentions: He
	submitted that the entire procedure adopted by the Governor was 
	wholly irregular. The Governor could not have sought the advise of 
	the Attorney General. She could not have insisted on recommendation
	of one name against a panel of names as previously suggested by the
	Chief Justice. The Governor, in any case, could not have 
	approached the Chief Justice directly. Most
	assertively it was contended that consultative process was still
	going on and the Council of Ministers through the Chief Minister 
	had raised certain objections to the appointment of Shri R.A.Mehta
	as Lokayukta. The first communication of the Chief Minister dated
	16th June 2011 was replied to by the Chief Justice on 
	2nd August 2011. However, the later communication dated
	18th August 2011 raised several issues about the
	recommendation of Shri R.A.Mehta which were still being examined
	by the Chief Justice. At that vital stage, the Governor could not
	have acted unilaterally and issued the notification. The
	learned Advocate General further contended that there was no delay
	on the part of the Government in making the appointment. Government
	 always acted promptly and in the best interest of the State. Counsel
	contended that in such a case, even at the instance of the State
	quo warranto would lie. In any case, the State had also prayed for
	 a declaration which can always be issued by this Court. 13.	
Learned Advocate General relied on the following decisions : 13.3		In
the case of Ram Nagina Singh v. S.V.Sohni ,
 AIR 1976 Patna 36 wherein in the context of appointment of
Lokayukta under the Bihar Lokayukta Act , the Division Bench of the
High Court observed that ordinarily when power is vested even by the
statute in the Government, he has to act on the aid and advice of the
Council of the Minsters. It does not cease to be an executive power 
merely because it is conferred by the statute. It would be
defeating the constitutional scheme if it was to be held that the
mere use of the word 'Governor' in any statute would be imputing an
intention to the legislature of conferring a power 'eo nomine' .
Indeed the presumption should be otherwise. 13.4		In
the case of Ajit Kumar v. State of Jharkhand & ors. 
 In WP (PIL) No.2475 of 2001 reported in MANU/JH/0345/2002, a
Division Bench of the Jharkhand High Court was also examining the
provisions of appointment of Lokayukta in the State. Hon'ble
Justice M.Y.Eqbal in his order stated as under : xxxx
 

xxxx 26.	Reading Article 163 and 166 of the Constitution and the Rules of Executive
Business, it is therefore clear that any function vested in the
Governor, whether Executive, Legislative or quasi judicial in nature 
and whether vested by the Constitution or by the State may be
delegated by the Rules of Business unless contrary is clearly
provided by such constitutional or statutory provisions. The
phrase "Governor in his discretion" as referred under Article 163 of the Constitution, in my opinion, does not come with
the purview of Section 3 of the Lokayukta Act, for the reason that
the Governor has got his special power under a special statute,
i.e. Lokayukta At. Power conferred upon the Governor under the
said Act has to be exercised in accordance with the procedure
provided under the Rules of Executive Business. In other words, 
Governor while exercising power under Section 3 of the Act has to act
on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers." Hon'ble
Justice S.J.Mukhopadhaya, other member of the Bench who gave a
concurring, but separate judgment observed as under: 13.5		In
the case of Rama Chandra Nayak v. State of Orissa , 
AIR 2002 Orissa 25, wherein the Orissa High Court also in the
context of the Orissa Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act held that the
Governor while appointing a
person as Lokpal is to act on the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers and there is no question of exercising power under his
personal capacity or discretion. 13.6		Our
attention was also drawn to the decision in the case of Justice
K.P.Mohapatra v. Sri Ram Chandra Nayak ,
(2002) 8 SCC 1, wherein the aforesaid decision of the Orissa High
Court (AIR 2002 Orissa 22) though was overruled but not on this
issue. To this decision, detailed reference would be made later on. 13.7		It
was pointed that the Supreme Court in the case of Bhuri
Nath v State of Jammu & Kashmir ,
(1997) 2 SCC 745 had approved the view of the Patna High Court in
the case of Ram Nagina Singh (supra). 13.8		
Reference was made to the decision in the case of Central
for PIL v. Union of India , 
(2011) 4 SCC 1 to highlight that even in appointment of Central
Vigilance Commission, the Apex Court held that the President shall
act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. 13.9		Reference
was also made to the decision of the Apex Court in the case 
S.C.Advocates-on-Record Ass. v. Union of India,
(1993) 4 SCC 441 to contend that the procedure envisaged for
appointment of Judges of High Court and Supreme Court cannot be
adopted in the present case. 13.10		Reference
was made to the decision in the case of Ashok Tanwar
 v. State of H.P. , (2005) 2 
SCC 104 wherein the Apex Court drew the distinction in the nature of
 consultation of the Chief Justice in case of appointment of Judge
to a Constitutional Court which required consultation with the 
collegium of Judges vis-a-vis the appointment to other
judicial or quasi judicial bodies where the consultation would be
only with the Chief Justice. 13.11		Reference
was made to the decision in the case of N.Kannadasan (supra) to
submit that it was a case where the question of appointment of
President of the Consumer Commission was involved. The Consumer
Forum is exercising judicial powers, the ratio laid down by the Apex
Court in such a case would not apply in the present case. 13.12		Reliance
was placed on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Baliram
Waman Hiray v. Justice B. Lentin , (1988)
4 SCC 419 to point out that the Apex Court held that Commission
under the Commission of Inquiry Act is not a court. 13.13		Reference
was made to the decision in the case of Kranti Associates
Private Limited v. Masood Ahmed Khan ,
(2010) 9 SCC 496 wherein the Apex Court held that the Consumer Court 
had trappings of a court. It was, however, contended that nature
of powers, duties and functions exercised by the Consumer Forum and
that by Lokayukta being vastly different, the Lokayukta cannot be 
stated to be an institution having the trappings of a court. 13.14		Reference
was made to the decision of the Apex Court in the
case of State of Maharashtra v. Labour Law
Practitioners Association,
(1998) 2 SCC 688 to point out that looking to the nature of powers
exercised by the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court, it was held
to be part of judicial set up. 13.15		Reliance
was also placed on the decision in the case of S.R.Venkataraman
 v. Union of India (1979) 2
SCC 491 to contend that the Governor acted with legal malice and the
decision should therefore be quashed. 14.	
	Learned Senior Counsel Shri Mihir Thakore appearing for the
petitioner in the connected petition raised one central issue,
viz. that in exercise of powers under section 3 of the Act, the
Governor was bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers.
 In absence of any recommendation from the Council of Ministers,
advising the Governor to appoint Shri R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta, she
could not have unilaterally issued the notification. 14.1		He
placed before us the debates in the Constituent Assembly wherein the
speakers stressed the need of, on the one hand vesting 
discretionary powers to the Governor and on the other, rejecting any
misgiving that such power would vest the Governor to act in every
case in his discretion. 15.		He
relied on the following decisions in support of his contentions : 15.4		Our
attention was drawn to the decision in the case of State
of Maharashtra v. Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak ,
(1982) 2 SCC 463 wherein in the context of the allegations against
the Chief Minister of the State, on a concession by the Counsel, it
was held that the Governor could have acted in her discretion. 15.5		Decision
in the case of M.P.Special Police Establishment v. 
State of M.P. , (2004) 8 SCC 788
was also brought to our notice to contend that the facts in that
case were peculiar. Against a Minister of the State, serious
allegations were made. Council of Ministers refused to grant sanction
for prosecution. The Governor, however, passed an order granting
such sanction. It was in this background, the Apex Court opined that
the Governor had rightly acted in her own discretion. 16.		On
behalf of respondent No.2, learned counsel Shri Shalin Mehta made
detailed submissions. At our request, he also addressed us on
general issues which were presented before us. He submitted that it
is though ordinarily true that the Governor must act in the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers, such rule is subject to certain
exceptions which from the decisions of the Apex Court can be culled
out as under: Opinion of the Chief Justice is, therefore, binding. (d)	object
of the Act cannot be subserved, if the final decision is left 	to
the executive. 16.2		Counsel
submitted that there was a difference of opinion between the Chief
Minister and the Chief Justice with respect to the name of Shir
R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta. There was no further consultation pending
with the Chief Justice after the State Government's objections raised
 by communication dated 16th
June 2011 were disposed of by the Chief Justice. 16.3		He
submitted that as held by the Apex Court in the case of N.Kannadasan (supra), the process of consultation must start from the Chief
Justice. He also referred to the decision of the Apex Court in the
case of Justice K.P.Mohapatra (supra) to contend that the view of
the Chief Justice should be given primacy. 16.4		Reliance
was placed in the case of Rajendra Singh Verma v. Lt.
Governor of NCT of Delhi , 2011
(1) SCALE 315, wherein, in the background
 of compulsory retirement of a judicial officer, the Apex Court held
that the Governor cannot act on the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers but has to act only on the recommendation of the High
Court. 17.		Shri
Girish Patel appearing for the applicants, opposed the petitions and
 submitted that though ordinarily, the Governor would be required to
act under the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, such rule
is not inviolable. In exceptional situation, it would be open for
the Governor to act in her discretion. 17.1		In
this regard, he submitted that consultation between different
agencies was going on since 2006. The post of Lokayukta is lying
vacant since 2003 when Justice S.M.Soni relinquished the charge. For
eight long years, there is no appointment to the post of Lokayukta. 
He pointed out that previously, a public interest litigation was 
filed seeking urgent appointment of Lokayukta in which on behalf of
the State, on 16.6.2010 it was stated that the process is at the fag
end. Despite one full year having passed since then, till date no
appointment has been made. 17.2		He
submitted that the petition of the State is not maintainable since it
is filed against a private individual. The State has not joined any
Department as the respondent. Obviously, the Governor cannot be a
respondent and rightly not joined by the State. He submitted that 
a writ of quo warranto cannot be issued since Justice R.A.Mehta 
has not taken charge and till the person appointed assumes office,
writ of quo warranto would not lie. 17.3		He
submitted that in view of the provisions of Article 163 of the
Constitution, Governor's discretion is not open to judicial review. 17.3		He
drew our attention to various provisions of the Act to contend
that an exceptional situation has arisen in the present case because
: Reliance
	was also placed on the decision in the case of N. Kannadasan (supra)
	wherein the Apex Court was pleased to discuss various issues of
	independence of judiciary in context of appointment of the president
	of Consumer Forum. Decision
	in the case of Rameshwar Prasad v. Union of India , (2006) 2
	SCC 1, was cited wherein the Apex Court was considering the 
	validity of dissolution of Bihar Assembly on the recommendation of
	the Governor. 18.		Dr.Mukul
Sinha appearing for the other applicant also opposed the petition
contending that the Governor was well within her power to act in the
present case. In fact, he contended that any action of the Governor
to the contrary would be unconstitutional. Counsel relied on the
following decisions: 19.		Having
thus heard the learned counsel for the parties following issues
arise for our consideration: 20.		Last
two issues which are preliminary in nature would be dealt with
first. Maintainability
of the petition/s: 21.		We
are of the opinion that the State's petition is maintainable. By
virtue of Article 361 of the Constitution of India, Governor of
the State is not answerable to any court for the exercise and
performance of powers and duties of his office or any act done or
purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of
those powers and duties. However, as held by the Apex Court in the
case of Rameshwar Prasad (supra) a writ would like against the
decision of the Governor. In any case, such technical issue need not
detain us as a public interest litigation filed by a private
organization is very much before us. We did not issue notice in
such petition only in order not to duplicate the efforts when we 
were hearing the grievance of the State in the State's petition. 
However, such petition at any rate would be maintainable. Can
writ of quo warranto be issued ? 22.		With
respect to the question of issuance of writ of quo warranto also, we
are of the opinion that such issue need not detain us for long. 
The parameters of a writ of quo warranto were discussed by the Apex
Court in the case of University of Mysore v. Govinda Rao , 
AIR 1965 SC 491 as under: As
canvassed by learned counsel Shri Girish Patel, certain judicial
pronouncements do suggest that the court would not issue a writ of
quo warranto till the person concerned assumes the office. In case
of Parmatma Ram v. Shri Chand , reported in AIR 1962 HP 19
also similar view was expressed. On
the other hand, the learned Advocate General has cited instances
where such writ petitions have been entertained by the Courts, such
as, in case of Shri Kumar Padma Prasad, (1992) 2 SCC 428 and
Rajendrakumar Chandumal, AIR 1957 MP 60. However, we need
not go into this question since as observed by the Apex Court in the
case of Centre for PIL (supra), the Court in an appropriate case
would also be competent to issue a writ of declaration. It was
observed as under: 22.1		In
the case of N. Kannadasan (supra), the Apex Court observed as under: In
the conclusion, we find that even if there is any inhibition in
issuing a writ of quo warranto, a declaration can always be issued
which would have the same effect. Nature
of powers of the Governor under section 3 of the Act: 23.		That
brings us to the question whether under section 3 of the Act, 
the Governor was required to act in aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers or at her own discretion. Looking to the provisions of Article 163 of the Constitution and the provisions made in section 3 of the Act as also considering the nature of Parliamentary
democracy adopted by our country under the Constitution, there is
little doubt that the Governor under section 3 of the Act was
required to act in aid and advise of the Council of Ministers. We
are conscious that there is a marked distinction between the powers
exercised by the President under Article 74 of the Constitution
vis-a-vis that exercised by the Governor under Article 163. In the
former case, the President virtually has no discretion but to act 
on the aid and advise of the Council of Ministers, under Article
163 there is a clear distinction where areas are earmarked for the 
exercise of power of the Governor which must be exercised by him or
her in her/his discretion and not under the aid and advise of
Council of Ministers. However, such areas must be traced under the
Constitution. Exception, of course, being where the Governor is
exercising powers by virtue of holding certain statutory post or
position as in case of a Chancellor of a University. In such a
case, the Governor would not be acting as the head of the State but
as a statutory authority holding such a post ex-officio merely by
virtue of being the Governor of the State. In such a case, the
Governor would be acting as statutory authority and without the aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers. However, wherever, the
Governor acts as the Head of the State, except for areas which are
ear-marked under the Constitution giving the discretion to the
Governor, exercise of power must be on the aid and advice of the
Council of Ministers. The Apex Court in the case of Samsher Singh
 (supra) summed the law in following manner: 23.2		In
the case of Kehar Singh (supra), the Apex Court, as already noted, 
held that the President while deciding to grant or not to grant 
pardon also must act under the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers. 23.3		Reference
may also be made in this regard to the decisions of the Apex Court 
in the case of Bhuri Nath v State of Jammu & Kashmir (supra) and in the case of Vice-Chancellor, University of
Allahabad (supra) . In Bhuri Nath the Apex Court was considering
the nature of powers exercised by the Governor in administration of
Vaishno Devi Shrine. It was observed that under the Jammu and
Kashmir Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Act , the Governor exercises 
his statutory powers as ex officio Chairman of the Board and not as
executive head of the State with the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers. The decision in case of Vice Chancellor, University of
Allahabad (supra) concerned the question of validity of appointment
made by the Vice Chancellor of the University. It was observed that 
the Governor acts as Chancellor discharging statutory duty in his
ex-officio capacity while under section 6 of the Act he exercises
his constitutional functions under Article 163 with the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers. These decisions represent areas 
where the Governor exercises statutory duties in his ex-officio
capacity and not as the head of a State. 23.4		In
the 8th Edition of Commentary on the Constitution of
India by Durga Das Basu, law on the subject has been discussed as
under: It
thus clearly emerges that the Governor under section 3 of the Act 
acts under the aid and advise of the Council of Ministers. Lokayukta whether is
a court: 24.		The
next question is whether the institution of Lokayukta is a court or
has trappings of a court. Detailed reference to different
provisions under the Act will be made at a later stage in a
slightly different context. At this stage, suffice it to note that
admittedly and concededly, there is no power under the Act by virtue
of which the Lokayukta can render a binding judgment. The
culmination of the investigation that the Lokayukta may undertake
either on a complaint or suo motu would be to render a report. 
Such a report is not binding either on the Council of Ministers or
any other authority. It does not decide the rights or lis between
the parties. It does not give a final verdict which can be enforced
against one or the other party. 24.1		In
the case of Dr.Baliram Waman Hiray (supra), the Apex Court has
observed as under: About a decade later in Jagannath Prasad v. State of Uttar Pradesh ,
( AIR 1963 SC 416) (supra), case, this Court following its earlier
decision in Smt. Ujjam Bai v. State of U.P. , (1961) 1 SCR 778: (AIR
1962 SC 1621) held that no doubt a Sales Tax Officer appointed under
the U. P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 is an instrumentality of the State
employed for the purposes of assessment and collection of taxes and
merely because he has, in the discharge of his duties, to perform
certain quasi-judicial functions i.e. has certain powers which are
similar to the powers exercised by Courts, still is not a Court as
understood in S. 195, of the Code. The Court relied upon the decision
of the House of Lords in Shell Co. of Australia for the view that a
Sales Tax Officer was not a Court in the strict sense of that term. xxxxx
 

 

 

There
had been prior to the enactment of sub-s. (3) of S. 195 of the
present Code, a sharp conflict of opinion between the High Courts as
to what are the Courts and what are not for the purposes of S.
195(1)(b) of the old Code. The question whether a Commission of
Inquiry constituted under the Commissions of Inquiry Act was a Court
within the meaning of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952 and whether
the proceedings before the Commission of Inquiry were judicial
proceedings directly arose before a Division Bench of the Nagpur High
Court in M. V. Rajwade v. Dr. S. M. Hassan , ( AIR 1954 Nag 7 1)
(supra), Bhutt, J. speaking for himself and S. P. Sinha, C. J. held
that a Commission of Inquiry constituted under the Commissions of
Inquiry Act 1952 was not a Court within the meaning of the Contempt
of Courts Act . The learned Judge rightly observed that the legal
fiction created by the first part of sub-s. (4) is for the limited
purpose specified in the second and that the purpose for which the
fiction is created is therefore to be gathered from what follows
after the words which create the fiction. " 24.2		In
the case of Kranti Associates Private Limited (supra), the
Apex Court was examining the requirement for the National Consumer 
Disputes Redressel Commission to give reasons in its orders. In
this context noticing the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act,
1986 it was observed : 24.3	In
the case of State of Maharashtra v. Labour Law Practitioners Assn. (supra), the Apex Court observed in para 16 and 18 as under : In the case of Shri Kumar Padma Prasad v. Union of India , (1992) 2
SCC 428 : (1992 AIR SCW 1993), this Court had to consider
qualifications for the purpose of appointment as a Judge of the High
Court under Article 217 of the Constitution. While interpreting the
expression "judicial office" under Article 217(2)(a) , this
Court held that the expression "judicial office" must be
interpreted in consonance with the scheme of Chapters V and VI of
Part VI of the Constitution. So construed it means a judicial office
which belongs to the judicial service as defined under Article
236(b). Therefore, in order to qualify for appointment as a Judge of
a High Court, a person must hold a judicial office which must be a
part of the judicial service of the State. After referring to the
cases of Chandra Mohan (AIR 1966 SC 1987) (supra) and Statesman
(Private) Ltd. (AIR 1968 SC 1495) (supra), this Court said that the
term "judicial office" in its generic sense may include a
wide variety of offices which are connected with the administration
of justice in one way or the other. Officers holding various posts
under the executive are often vested with magisterial power to meet a
particular situation. The Court said, 

 

 

 

"Did
the framers of the Constitution have this type of offices in mind
when they provided a source of appointment to the high office of a
judge of the High Court from amongst the holders of a "judicial
office"? The answer has to be in the negative. We are of the
view that holder of judicial office under Article 217(2)(a) means the
person who exercise only judicial functions, determines causes inter
parties and renders decisions in a judicial capacity. He must belong
to the judicial service which as a class is free from executive
control and is disciplined to uphold the dignity, integrity and
independence of the judiciary." Going
by these tests laid down as to what constitutes judicial service
under Article 236 of the Constitution, the Labour Court judges and
the Judges of the Industrial Court can be held to belong to judicial
service. The hierarchy contemplated in the case of Labour Court
judges is the hierarchy of Labour Court judges and Industrial Court
Judges with the Industrial Court Judges holding the superior position
of District Judges. The Labour Courts have also been held as subject
to the High Court's power of superintendence under Article 227." 25.		From
the above judicial pronouncements and bearing in mind the provisions
of the Act, we are of the opinion that the institution of Lokayukta
cannot be considered as a court or having the trappings of a
court. Lokayukta does not decide lis between parties. He does not
have powers to give binding judgments. Culmination of his
investigation may result into a report which report is not binding
on any authority. He has powers of a civil court for certain limited
purposes and institution of Lokayukta is deemed to be a civil court
for certain limited purposes; but is not a court. Nature of Consultation
: 26.	This
brings us to the next issue, regarding the nature of consultation
required for appointment as a Lokayukta. Having
held that the Lokayukta does not hold a judicial post, however, in
so far as the nature of consultation is concerned, to our mind is
not very significant. The contention that the nature of
consultation envisaged for
appointment to a judicial post, such as consumer forum cannot be
adopted in the present case also would be of no consequence. In 
the case of Justice K.P.Mohapatra (supra), looking to the duties
performed by the Lokayukta, the Apex Court was clearly of the opinion
that it would be the opinion of the Chief Justice which would have
primacy [(2002) 8 SCC 1 ] . 26.1		It
was a case wherein the appointment of Lokayukta of Orissa State was
under challenge before the High Court in a public interest petition.
The High Court set aside the appointment. The matter was carried 
before the Apex Court. The Apex Court, noticed that section 3(1) of
the Act provided that for the purpose of conducting the
investigation in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the
Governor shall appoint a person to be known as Lokpal and one or
more persons to be known as as the Lokayukta or Lakayuktas. It is
further provided that "the Lokpal shall be appointed after
consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court of Orissa and
the Leader of the Opposition, if any". In this background,
reversing the decision of the High Court, the Supreme Court held and
observed as under : 26.2		As
noticed previously, a Division Bench of the Jharkhand High Court in
the case of Ajit Kumar (supra) was also examining the nature of 
consultation between the Chief Justice and the Chief Minister in
selecting a name of for appointment of Lokayukta. Justice
S.J.Mukhopadhaya delivering a concurring, but separate judgment
stressed the need for proper consultation. It was observed that
the matter of consultation should not be dealt in the like manner as
dealt in that case . He observed that consultation with the high
dignitaries like the Chief Justice and Leader of Opposition of the
State Assembly should not be negated on unreasonable ground giving a
colour that the Council of Ministers who will fall within the domain
of the Lokayukta do not like to have a Lokayukta or intend to have 
Lokayukta of their choice, which is against the spirit of Lokayukta
Act . It was further observed that once the consultation is made, the
matter should not have been sent back to the Council of Ministers,
but in accordance with the provisions of the Act, it should be
referred to the Governor of the State. If initially the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers is taken, the Governor is not
required to take again the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers, but to act taking into consideration the consultation as
made. 27.	From
the above decisions and particularly of the Apex Court in case of Justice K.P.Mohapatra (supra) it clearly emerges that consultation 
with the Chief Justice is mandatory and his view would hold
primacy. Even independently, we are of the view that in identifying
the name for appointment of Lokayukta, it is the Chief Justice's
view, in case of difference between the two dignitaries to the
consultation, which must prevail. We say so, because, the very
nature of functions and duties the Lokayukta is likely to perform
under the Act would require appointment of an independent person who
in the view of the Chief Justice is best suited for such a
position. The actions of the the Council of Ministers, so also the
Leader of Opposition, by the very nature of position held by them, 
be subjected to investigation that the Lokayukta may have to
undertake. It is only the Chief Justice, the third dignitary to the
consultation process, who has no personal stake in the matter. Being
the Chief Justice of the State, he would be the best suited to
recommend the name of a person, who, in his opinion, would be able
to perform such duties independently. We further notice that the
Act envisages appointment of even a sitting Judge of the High Court.
 It will be inconceivable that against the will and wish of the
Chief Justice, the Council of Ministers and even with the
concurrence of the Leader of Opposition can decide to appoint a
sitting Judge of the High Court as Lokayukta. It is one more
indication for us to hold that in case of break down of
consultation between the Chief Minister and the Chief Justice, on the
question of selection of name, it would be the Chief Justice's view 
which must prevail. Various provisions of the Act convince us that
the Act envisages a strong institution of Lokayukta to
investigate allegations of irregularities and corruption against 
public functionaries. It starts with appointment of an independent
Lokayukta who is or has been a Judge of a High Court and who is
recommended by the Chief Justice of the State. We fail to see how
such a purpose would be subserved if finality of the choice is
vested in the executive whose actions directly or indirectly may
come within the scanner of the Lokayukta. In case of Center for PIL and another (supra) [(2011) 4 SCC 1] the Apex Court discussed the
concept of "institutional integrity". We do not see how
"Institutional integrity" of Lokayukta can be preserved 
by giving primacy to the opinion of the Council of Ministers over
that of the Chief Justice. As envisaged in the Interim Report of
the Commission, the Lokayukta was to have status of the highest 
Judiciary. We may not equate the institution of Lokayukta with a
court and may not import all concepts which go with the requirement
of independence of judiciary; nevertheless, leaving the finality of
choice of appointment to the Council of Ministers would be akin to
allowing a person whose conduct is likely to be under investigation
to choose his own judge. Whether
there was a dead lock 28.		This
brings us to the next question, namely, whether or not there was any
dead lock between the Chief Minister and the Chief Justice or 
between the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister and the
Chief Justice of the State. 29.		Much
has been stated before us by the learned Advocate General in this
regard. Taking us painstakingly through various file notings, it
was contended that the Chief Minister, through correspondence had
placed the concerns of the Council of Ministers before the Chief
Justice. Though the first letter dated 16th June 2011
was replied to by the Chief Justice, the Chief Minister wrote
another letter dated 18th August 2011 and elaborated the
objections to the name recommended by the Chief Justice. It was
submitted that such communication was yet to be taken into account
and replied to. The Chief Justice had not turned down the request
of the State for reconsideration of the name. At such a moment, it
cannot be concluded that the consultation process between the Chief
Minister and the Chief Justice had been terminated resulting into a
dead-lock. 30.		From
the record, we, however, find the facts somewhat different. 
Firstly, after recommending the name of Shri R.A.Mehta, as Lokayukta
by the Chief Justice, the Chief Minister raised certain concerns
over the selection of the name vide communication dated 16th
June 2011. The Chief Justice by his letter dated 2nd
August 2011 went on record to state that he tried to gather all the
details about the activities of Shri R.A.Mehta. He found that there
is no such activity which makes him ineligible for appointment to
the post of Lokayukta. According to the Chief Justice, he is a
man of high repute and integrity and always maintained high
reputation while he was in Judiciary and still he is maintaining
high standards in the Society. With these remarks, the Chief
Justice concluded that the matter be taken up with the Council of
Ministers for forwarding the name of Shri R.A.Mehta to the
Governor for appointment as Lokayukta. 31.		It
is, of course, true that that on 18th August 2011, the
Chief Minister wrote a letter to the Chief Justice. In fact, the
Chief Minister wrote two letters, one letter was addressed to the
Chief Justice giving details of the concerns of the Council of
Ministers appointing Shri R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta. The Chief
Minister significantly concluded the issue by stating as under : Similar
letter was also addressed by the Chief Minister to the Governor, on
18th August 2011 in which, it was once again stated that
: Insofar
as the Council of Ministers is concerned, therefore, question of 
appointing Shri R.A.Mehta as Lokayukta was closed. In view of what
was conveyed by the Chief Minister to the Chief Justice and the
Governor, the State had finally and conclusively and in no uncertain
terms conveyed the stand that in so far as Shri R.A. Mehta is
concerned, his name was not acceptable. When one talks of
consultation, it cannot be a one way consultation. We fail to see 
what further consultation was left to be made between the Chief
Justice and the Chief Minister if the view of the Council of
Ministers was that name of Shri R.A.Mehta is simply not acceptable. 31.1		In
addition to the above stand emerging from the record, we also find
that at the very moment when such correspondence was going on 
between two dignitaries, the Council of Ministers had recommended
issuance of an Ordinance which would change the entire set up of
Lokayukta as also the manner of selection of Lokayukta. As already
noted, the Governor was requested to issue an Ordinance on 17th
August 2011. This Ordinance, if promulgated, would have changed the
manner of appointment of Lokayukta. It would in fact, change the
very constitution of Lokayukta. Instead of the previous provisions
which envisaged one man Lokayukta, the new provisions envisaged 
Lokayukta as Chairperson and upto maximum of two members who could
form the institution of Lokayukta. Appointment to such post would be
 made by a Committee consisting of the Chief Minister, Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly, the Minister In-charge of the Legal
Department, a sitting Judge of the High Court, as may be nominated
by the Chief Justice and the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative
Assembly. Even the role of the Chief Justice in recommending a
person to be appointed as Chairperson was to undergo a significant
change. Proviso to sub-section (3) to the amended section 3 would provide that no sitting Judge of the High Court shall be
appointed as a Chairperson except after consultation with the Chief
Justice of the High Court. In other words, consultation with the
Chief Justice, previously required for appointment of a sitting
Judge or a Retired Judge of the High Court was minimized to
consulting the Chief Justice only when a sitting Judge of the High
Court was sought to be appointed as Chairperson. 31.2		When
such Ordinance was returned by the Governor for reconsideration,
once again a fresh Ordinance was sent on or around 20th 
August 2011. 32.		We
are not looking at the propriety of issuance of such ordinance or
legality of the provisions contained therein. This issue is not at
large before us. We are not even accepting the contention of the 
counsel Shri Girish Patel that such ordinance was issued wholly
malafide. 33.		One
inescapable conclusion, however, one reaches is that in so far as
the Council of Ministers is concerned, there was nothing left in the
consultation with respect to the name of Shri R.A.Mehta. On one
hand, on 18th August 2011, the Chief Minister wrote to the
Chief Justice as well as to the Governor of the State that name of
Shri R.A Mehta is not acceptable and on the other a day before
i.e. on 17.8.2011, Council of Ministers requested the Governor to
promulgate an ordinance which would change not only the manner of
selection of Lokayukta, but the very constitution of the Lokayukta 
itself. It may be well within the State's legislative powers 
powers to do so. In the present case, all that we conclude is that
in so far as the name of Shri R.A. Mehta is concerned, there was
nothing left to be consulted between the Chief Minister and the
Chief Justice and there was a dead lock. Was
the Governor authorized to act in the manner she did ? 34.		This
brings us to the last and most crucial aspect of the matter, namely, 
was the Governor authorized to act in the manner which she did ? 
To be able to discuss this issue, we would like to delve at some
length on the background leading to the enactment of the Gujarat
Lokayukta Act as well as various provisions made under the said Act. 34.1		Statement
of objects and reasons for enacting the Act records that in the 
Interim Report on Problems of redress of citizens' Grievances 
submitted in 1966, the Administrative Reforms Committee recommended
inter alia setting up a institution of Lokayukta to inquire into the
complaint of corruption in administration. To give effect to this
recommendation of the Administrative Reforms Committee, the State
Government had published the Gujarat Lokpal and Lakayukta Bill 1975.
 The bill was referred to the Government of India for
administrative approval. The Government of India had made certain
suggestions in respect of the bill. The bill, however, lapsed on
account of dissolution of the State Assembly. The present bill was
introduced on the same line as the earlier one, after incorporating
some of the suggestions made by the Government of India. The main
object of the bill was to provide for appointment of Lokayukta to
inquire into the complaints in respect of the actions taken by the
public functionaries. 35.		We
have perused the interim report of the Administrative Reforms
Commission ('Commission' for short). The Commission consisted of
Shri Morarji Desai as Chairman, and included Shri Harish Chandra
Mathur, Shri H.V.Kamath and Shri V.Shankar as other members. The
Commission was appointed by the President of India with terms of
reference, which included, to give consideration to the need for 
ensuring the highest standard of efficiency and integrity in public
services and for making public administration a fit instrument for
carrying out the social and economic policies of the Government and
achieving social and economic goals of development, as also one which
is responsive to the people. The Commission was required to deal
with problems of redressal of citizens' grievances, namely, the
adequacy of the existing arrangements for the redress of grievances,
and the need for introduction of any new machinery for special
institution for redress of grievances. The Committee, in its
interim report, observed as under: 35.1	The
Commission in the report, thereafter, examined the existing
safeguards for the citizens and the deficiency in the existing 
safeguards, particularly with respect to the facilities available
for ventilation of citizens' grievances. The Commission noted 
the growing encroachment of the State on citizens' rights after the
World Wars and more so since independence. The Commission noted 
the vast area of administrative discretion in which facilities for 
citizens grievance is not available. The Commission, therefore,
noted that in essence, the main issue before it was how to
provide the citizen with an institution to which he can have easy
access for the redress of his grievances and which he is unable to
seek elsewhere. The Commission noted that the basic problem has
been attracting considerable notice and the need for an authority to
deal with cases of corruption in the ranks of Government and the
same has also engaged the attention of popular representatives of
India for several years. The Commission further noted that several
 strong legislations have been recommended, such as Prevention of
Corruption bill, Criminal Law Amendment Bill, 1952, Commission of
Inquiry Bill, 1952, etc. the Commission also, took note of the 
debates for the need for setting up an institution of 
Ombudsman-type in India which need was strongly stressed and
supported by late Shri Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru. 35.2
		The Commission noted the pattern of Ombudsman established in
various countries, such as, in Scandinavian countries, New Zealand
and United Kingdom and noted that common pattern of such institution
is that position of Ombudsman is analogous to that of the 
highest or high judicial functionaries in the country. He is left
comparatively free to choose his own methods and agencies of
investigation. The Commission felt that in our country also, such
pattern can be suitably adapted to our needs. Such institutions 
are generally a supplement to the Parliamentary control,
independent of any political affiliations, outside the normal
administrative hierarchy and free from formalism, publicity and
delay associated with Governmental machinery. They work 
unobtrusively to remove the sense of injustice from the mind of
the adversely affected citizen and yet uphold in a very large 
measure the prestige and authority of the administration,
instilling public confidence in its efficiency and faith in its
working and introducing a proper perspective of it in the mind of
the public. The Commission, then went on to notice some of the
difficulties in setting up a replica of Ombudsman kind of an
institution, but also discussed and concluded that all
difficulties pointed out are not insurmountable. The Commission,
after careful consideration, was of the opinion that the ministerial
decisions should also be brought within the scope of the functions
of the Lokayukta. The Commission was of the opinion that even after
 considering the political aspect of such decision, in fact the same
would strengthen the hands of the Prime Minister rather than be 
weakened by the institution. The Commission, thereupon,
recommended an institution for redress of citizens' grievances
comprising one authority dealing with complaint against the
administrative acts of the Ministers or Secretaries to the
Government at the Center and in the States. The Commission,
envisaged another authority in each State and at the centre for
dealing with the complaint against the administrative acts of other
officials. The Commission observed that public opinion has been 
agitated for a long time over the prevalence of corruption in the
administration and it is likely that cases coming up before the
independent authorities might involve allegations or actual
evidence of corrupt motive and favouritism. The Commission opined
that the institution should deal with such cases as well, except in
cases where they might involve criminal charge or misconduct 
cognizable by a court, the case should be brought to the notice of
the Prime Minister or the Chief Minister, as the case may be. The
Commission envisaged following main features of the institutions of
Lokpal and Lokayukta.: Bearing
in mind these essential features of the institution, we recommend
that the Lokpal be appointed and invested with functions in the 
manner described in the succeeding paragraphs." 36.	It
was on the basis of this interim report that the Lokayukta Act, 1986 was enacted. The draft bill suggested by the Commission, of
course, differs in some significant areas from the Act promulgated by
the State. Nevertheless, the background leading to the Act is of
considerable importance and interest for our purpose. With this
background, the Act was enacted "to make provision for
appointment of Lokayukta for the investigation of allegations 
against public functionaries in the State of Gujarat and also for
safeguarding the dignity and prestige of public functionaries 
against false and frivolous allegations and for matters connected
therewith". 36.1 Section
2(1) of the Act, defines 'action' which means any action
taken whether before or after the commencement of the Act, by way
of decision, recommendation or finding or in any other manner
includes failure
to act. Section 2(2) defines the term 'allegation'. Section 2(4) defines the term 'Lokayukta' to mean a
person appointed as a Lokayukta
under section 3 of the Act. Section 2(7) defines the term 'public
functionary' as under: Section
3 of the Act pertains to appointment of Lokayukta and reads as under: 4 of the Act pertains to disabilities in the case of Lokayukta and
provides as under: A person shall be disqualified for appointment as a Lokayukta or for
continuing to hold any such post if any member of his family has
entered into any commercial contract with the State Government and
the contract is subsisting or has any other dealing with the State
Government relating to any business of a commercial nature. Explanation.-For
the purpose of sub-section (2), the expression "family"
means wife, husband, son, unmarried daughter, and son's wife. " 5 of the Act pertains to the term of office and other conditions
of service of Lokayukta and reads as under: 6 of the Act pertains to removal of Lokayukta, and reads as under : Section
7 pertains to matters which may be investigated by Lokayukta, and
reads as under: No matter in respect of which a complaint is made under this Act
shall be referred to a Commission for inquiry under the Commissions
of Inquiry Act, 1952 except on the recommendation or with the
concurrence of the Lokayukta: 8 of the Act pertains to matters which shall not be investigated by
the Lokayukta and includes those which are referred to a Commission
of inquiry appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act . In
particular sub-section (4) of section 8 provides that the Lokayukta
shall not inquire into any complaint if the complaint is made after
the expiry of five years from the date on which the action mentioned
in such complaint is alleged to have been taken. Section
10 of the Act provides for procedure in respect of the 
investigation to be made by Lokayukta. Sub-section (1) in
particular provides that the Lokayukta shall afford to the public
functionary concerned an opportunity to offer his comments on such
complaint or statement made against him. Sub-section (2) of section 10 requires the Lokayukta to carry out every such
investigation in private and not to disclose the identify of the
complainant and the public functionary affected by the
investigation. Sub-section (3) of section 10 leaves the procedure
for conducting any investigation to the discretion of the
Lokayukta. Sub-section (4) of section 10 , authorizes the Lokayukta
 in his discretion to refuse to investigate or cease to investigate
any complaint if in his opinion such complaint is frivolous or
vexatious or is not made in good faith or there are no sufficient
grounds for investigating, or as the case may be, continuing the
investigation or other remedies are available to the complainant or
in the circumstances of the case, it would be more proper for the
complainant to avail of such remedies. However, as per 
sub-section (5) of section 10 , in case where the Lokayukta decides
not to entertain a complaint or to discontinue any investigation in
respect of a complaint, he is required to record reasons and
communicate the same to the complainant and the public functionary
concerned. Sub-section (7) of section 10 makes the act of
disclosing to the public or to the press any information in
contravention of the provisions of section 10 , an offence which 
may be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
two years and shall also be liable to fine. Section
11 of the Act pertains to evidence that the Lokayukta may record. 
Relevant portion of section 11 reads as under: For the purpose of any such investigation (including the preliminary
inquiry), the Lokayukta shall have all the powers of a civil court
while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (5 of
1908) in respect of the following matters, namely:- The Lokayukta shall have power to require any person subject to the
provisions of sub-section (8) to furnish information on such points
or matters as in the opinion of the Lokayukta may be useful for or
relevant to, tile subject matter of the inquiry and any person so
required shall be deemed to be legally bound to furnish such
information within the meaning of section 176 and section 177 of the
Indian Penal Code. The Lokayukta or any Gazetted officer specially authorised in this
behalf by the Lokayukta may enter any building or place where he has
reason to believe that any books of account or other documents
relating to the subject matter of the inquiry may be found, and may
seize any such books of account or documents or take extracts or
copies therefrom, subject to the provisions of section 100 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (2 of 1974) in so far as they may be
applicable. The Lokayukta shall be deemed to be a Civil Court and when any
offence as is described in section 175, section 178, section 179 or section 180 of the Indian Penal Code is committed in the view or
presence of the Lokayukta, the Lokayukta may, after recording the
facts constituting the offence and the statement of the accused as
provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974) 
forward the case to a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same
and the Magistrate to whom any such case is forwarded shall proceed
to hear the complaint against the accused as if the case had been
forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of the Criminal
Procedure 1973. Any proceeding before the Lokayukta shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian
Penal Code." xxxxx" 12 of the Act pertains to report of the Lokayukta in case of 
Chief Minister and reads as under: On receipt of the report under sub-section (1). the Chief Minister
shall cause the same to be placed, without delay, before the Council
of Ministers. " 13 pertains to findings and recommendations in case where section
12 does not apply. Section 13 reads as under: "13.	(1)
If in any case to which section 12 does not apply, the Lokayukta
after investigation of any action in respect of which a complaint
involving an allegation has been or can be or could have been made,
is satisfied that such allegation can be substantiated, either wholly
or partly, he shall by a report in writing, communicate his finding
alongwith the relevant documents, materials and other evidence, to
the competent authority. The competent authority shall examine the report forwarded to it
under sub-section (1) and intimate, within three months of the date
of receipt of the report, the Lokayukta the action taken or proposed
to be taken on the basis of the report. " The categories of officers and employees who may be appointed under
sub-section (1), their salaries, allowances and other conditions of
service and the administrative powers of the Lokayukta shall be such
as may be prescribed after consultation with the Lokayukta. Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1). the Lokayukta
may, for the purpose of conducting investigations under this Act,
utilise the services of - any
	officer or investigation agency of the State Government: Second
Schedule to the Act provides that the Lokayukta shall be paid
salary at the rate equal to that payable to the Chief Justice of the
High Court. 36.2		The
State has promulgated Rules called Gujarat Lokayukta Rules, 1989. 37.		From
the various provisions noticed by us, including the background
leading to the enactment of the said Act, what emerges is as
follows: As
	per sub-section (2) of section 5 on ceasing to hold office, the
	Lokayukta would be ineligible for further employment as a
	Lokayukta or in any other capacity under the Government of Gujarat
	or for any employment or office under any Government Company,
	Corporation or University. Reading
	sub-section (3), (4) and (5) of section 5 , the provision thereto
	and second schedule to the Act together would make it clear that in
	terms of salary and other emoluments, the position of the Lokayukta
	is equated with that of the Chief Justice of the State. Further 
	proviso to section 5 ensures that allowances, pension and other
	conditions of service of Lokayukta cannot be varied to his
	disadvantage after his appointment. 37.1		It
can thus be seen that the Act envisages three pronged approach to 
ensure that the person to be appointed as Lokayukta is independent
and is allowed to and continues to function independently throughout
his term. Firstly, he must be or must have been a Judge of a High
Court. His appointment must be in consultation with the Chief
Justice of the State. He cannot have any political affiliations. He
cannot hold membership of the Union or State Legislatures. He 
cannot hold any office of profit or business connection with the
Government. This would ensure appointment of an independent person. 
 Secondly, his tenure is guaranteed. His service conditions 
cannot be varied to his disadvantage. He is immune from legal
action for any act done in discharge of his duties. He is given
wide powers to collect evidence and engage his own staff. All these
will ensure independence of the institution of Lokayukta. 
Thirdly, after ceasing to hold the office, he is disqualified from
holding any office or employment under the State Government,
Government Company or University to ensure total impartiality. 38.		It
can thus be seen that the Act envisages set up of a strong
institution of Lokayukta, only upon which the holder of the office 
can effectively discharge the functions and duties envisaged under
the Act. As already noted, the Act empowers him to investigate into
either a complaint received from citizen or suo motu allegations
against public functionaries and make a report. If an institution
like this is not empowered to effectively carry out such
investigation, the entire authority of the institution would
completely erode. It is precisely for this reason, under the Act, 
the Lokayukta has been entrusted with wide powers in discharge of
his functions particularly for carrying out the investigation
into the complaint made against the public functionaries. 38.1	
Simultaneously, to protect and safeguard the public functionaries 
against any frivolous and false allegations several provisions have 
been made under the Act. For example, under sub-section (4) of section 10 , the Lokayukta may refuse to investigate or discontinue
any investigation which may have been initiated if, in his opinion,
the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or is not made in good
faith or there are no sufficient grounds for investigating or
continuing such investigation. Sub-section (5) of section 9 provides
that any person who willfully or maliciously makes any false
allegations in a complaint under the Act shall on conviction be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years
and shall also be liable to file. 38.2 The
Act has therefore a dual purpose. On the one hand, it aims to
provide for an effective machinery for a citizen to ventilate his
grievance against any irregular act by the public functionary and to
investigate in such complaint or to initiate investigation suo motu.
As already noted, number of statutory provisions have been made to
ensure installation of an independent Lokayukta and further to ensure
that such Lokayukta during his term in office can discharge his
function independently and effectively, without fear or favour. 
Simultaneously, while doing so, the Act also aims at protecting the
public functionaries against frivolous and vexatious allegations by 
 authorizing the Lokayukta to refuse to investigate any such
complaint as also by providing punishment for willful malicious and
false allegations. 39.	The
provisions made under the Act must be viewed in the present context
 and the situation of socio-economic conditions and aspirations of
the people. The law of the country must fulfill the aspirations of
the people. Constitution of our country is always viewed as living
organism; an organic body which evolves and emerges with passage of
time. 40. In
the case of Zee Telefilms Ltd. v. Union of India , 
(2005) 4 SCC 649, Justice S.B.Sinha in a minority view observed as
under: xxxx
 

	xxxx 93.	Constitutions
have to evolve the mode for welfare of their citizens. Flexibility is
the hallmark of our Constitution. For growth of the Constitution
shall be organic, rate of change glacial." Though
the judgment of Justice Sinha represents the minority view, on the
above noted aspects, there was no divergence of opinion, as can be
seen from para 35 of the judgment rendered by Hon'ble Mr Justice
Santosh Hegde expressing majority view, in which it was observed as
under: 40.1		In
the case of Madhu Kishwar v. State of Bihar , (1996) 5 SCC
125, Justice Ramaswamy, though was expressing minority view, the
observations in the present context would be relevant: 40.2		In
the case of Video Electronics Pvt. Ltd . State of Punjab, (1990)
3 SCC 87, the Apex Court observed that the Constitution is a living
organism and the latent meaning of the expressions used can be given
effect to only if a particular situation arises. It was observed as
under: In
the case Chief Justice of A.P. v. L.V.Dixitulu ,
 (1979) 2 SCC 34, the Apex Court observed has observed as under: 40.3		In
the present context, we may also take note of a recent decision of
the Supreme Court in the case of Ram Jethmalani v. Union
of India , (2011) 8 SCC 1, 
getting alarmed at the menace and scale of black money and
unaccounted monies. The observations of the
Apex Court which are relevant in this regard are as follows: xxxx 18.		In
addition, it would also appear that in this miasmic cultural
environment in which greed is extolled, conspicuous consumption
viewed as both necessary and socially valuable, and the wealthy
viewed as demigods, the agents of the State may have also succumbed
to the notions of the neoliberal paradigm that the role of the State
ought to only be an enabling one, and not exercise significant
control. This attitude would have a significant impact on exercise
of discretion, especially in the context of regulating economic
activities, including keeping an account of the monies generated in
various activities, both legal and illegal, Carried away by the
ideology of neoliberalism, it is entirely possible that the agents of
the State entrusted with the task of supervising the economic and
social activities may err more on the side of extreme caution,
whereby signals of wrong doing may be ignored even when they are
strong. Instances of the powers that be ignoring publicly visible
stock market scams, or turning a blind eye to large scale illegal
mining have become all too familiar, and may be readily cited. That
such activities are allowed to continue to occur, with weak, or
non-existent, responses from the State may, at best, be charitably
ascribed to this broader culture of permissibility of all manner of
private activities in search of ever more lucre. ....." We
are conscious that there is an application made by the Union of
India seeking review of the above decision . We are also conscious 
that between two learned Members of the Bench, which heard the
review petition, there has been a difference of opinion with
respect to the maintainability of such review application. However,
the observations made in the said judgment are being referred to only
for a limited purpose of noticing the growing concern of the
society about the large scale allegations of corruption against
various members in public life, who under the Act have been defined
as 'public functionaries'. 41.	In
a democratic set up, ultimate power lies with the people. In the
Constitution, we have accepted the executive and legislative acts 
are subject to people's ultimate indirect approval. Except areas
which are recognized as basic 	 structure or basic features of the
Constitution, which are beyond the power of the Parliament to amend, 
all other actions and policies of the Government of the day are 
laid before the people periodically when all elected members seek
their re-election by the people. Even the members of Upper House of
 the Parliament are indirectly elected by the people. Free, fair
and frequent (periodical) elections are, therefore, considered
essential for any democracy. 41.1		In
the case of B.R.Kapur v. State of T.N. (2001) 7 SCC 231, the Apex Court culled out the basic structure, or
the basic feature theory emerging from the decision of the Apex Court
in the case of Kesavananda
Bharati [(1973) 4 SCC 225] in the following manner: 41.2		In
the case of of S.R.Chaudhari v. State of Punjab , 
(2001) 7 SCC 126, the Apex Court stressed the importance of the
representation of the people in parliamentary democracy and observed 
 as under : for six months. 34.
The very concept of responsible Government and representative
democracy signifies Government by the people. In constitutional
terms, it denotes that the sovereign power which resides in the
people is exercised on their behalf by their chosen representatives
and for exercise of those powers, the representatives are necessarily
accountable to the people for what they do. The Members of the
Legislature, thus, must owe their power directly or indirectly to the
people. The Members of the State Assemblies like Lok Sabha trace
their power directly as elected by the people while the Members of
the Council of State like Rajya Sabha owe it to the people indirectly
since they are chosen by the representative of the people. The
Council of Minister of which a Chief Minister is head in the State
and on whose aid and advice the Governor has to act, must, therefore
owe their power to the people directly or indirectly. xxxxx
 

xxxxx 39.
India is a Democratic Republic. Its chosen system of political
organisation is reflected in The Preamble to the Constitution, which
indicates the source from which the Constitution comes, viz., "WE
THE PEOPLE OF INDIA". By permitting a non-legislator Minister to
be reappointed,without getting elected with the period prescribed by Article 164(4) , would amount to ignoring the electorate in having its
say as to who should represent it - a position which is wholly
unacceptable. The seductive temptations to cling to office regardless
of constitutional restraint must be totally eschewed. Will of the
people cannot be permitted to be subordinated to political expediency
of the Prime Minster or the Chief Minister as the case may be, to
have in his cabinet a non-legislator as a Minister for an indefinite
period by repeated reappointments without the individual seeking
popular mandate of the electorate. xxxx
 

	xxxxx 42.
We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that it would be
subverting the Constitution to permit an individual, who is not a
member of the Legislature, to be appointed a Minister repeatedly for
a term of "six consecutive months", without him getting
himself elected in the meanwhile. The practice would be clearly
derogatory to the constitutional scheme, improper, undemocratic and
invalid. Article 164(4) is at best only in the nature of an exception
to the normal rule of only members of the Legislature being
Ministers, restricted to a short period of six consecutive months.
This exception is essentially required to be used to meet very
extraordinary situation and must be strictly construed and sparingly
used. The clear mandate of Article 164(4) that if an individual
concerned is not able to get elected to the legislature within the
grace period of six consecutive months, he shall cease to be a
Minister, cannot be allowed to be frustrated by giving a gap of few
days and reappointing the individual as a Minister, without his
securing confidence of the electorate in the meanwhile. Democratic
process which lies at the core of our Constitutional schemes cannot
be permitted to be flouted in this manner." In the above case , the Apex Court considering a situation where a person
who was not a member of the Legislative Assembly was appointed as
Minister and within six months as envisaged under the Constitution,
he did not get himself elected and sought re-nomination as a
Minister. It was contended that there is no embargo on
reappointment as a Minister even though the period of six months
envisaged under the Constitution for getting himself elected was
over. It was in such a context, the above observations were made by
the Apex Court. 42.		We
may notice that under the Act even while making the position of
Lokayukta immune from any outside pressures, his ultimate decision
is left either for the political system or people to judge. The
recommendation that the Lokayukta may make is neither binding nor
compulsory to be acted upon. If the recommendation is against 
the Chief Minister of the State, it would be sufficient if the same
is placed before the Council of Ministers. There is no further 
obligation to act upon the same. If it is against any other person,
the same shall be referred to the competent authority. The
competent authority will examine the report and intimate the
Lokayukta the action taken or proposed on the basis of the report.
In a given case he may take no action. The Act does not expect 
any further steps than this. However, the Act leaves aftermath or
fall-out of any adverse indictment to the maturity of the political
system or ultimately for the people to judge, the action to be taken
in such a case. 42.1		In
an electoral system, people are required to make their choice with
respect to the policies and principles of different political outfits
with different political idealogies. Such choice must be an
informed choice to be made on the basis of accurate information. 
It is in this respect that the Act, to our mind, has a significant
role to play. The existing conventional systems of redressel of 
grievances are time consuming. It can be easily seen that it would
be a while before the people would get the correct information about
the allegations made against the public functionaries. Filing of
FIR itself is not sufficient since anyone can approach the
Investigating Agency with a complaint and if there is prima facie
disclosure of commission of cognizable offence, the Investigating
Agency is bound to register a FIR. Completion of investigation
and filing of chargesheet also may not be a sufficient proof of
involvement of any person, since it is only an Investigating Agency's
opinion that there is sufficient material to proceed against the
accused. Often times, the Investigating Agency, it is alleged, is
controlled by the people in power. Framing of charge by the
competent criminal court also would only indicate that the Court is
of the opinion that there is sufficient material on record to
proceed against the accused and nothing more. Achieving conviction
or for that matter acquittal, often consumes considerable time. 
Application for discharge, appeals and revisions are inbuilt in our
judicial system. An acquittal recorded by the competent court also 
may not always clear the cloud for the person facing serious
allegations of corruption, since often times, acquittal is a result
of either faulty or insufficient investigation or benefit of doubt
following the witnesses turning hostile or a technical flaw such as
 non-obtaining of sanction for prosecution though required under the
law. 43.	For
the people to make an informed choice at the electoral proceedings,
an investigation report of Lokayukta, to our mind would and is
envisaged to play an extremely important role. As already noted,
Lokayukta is a person who is of unimpeachable character who is
or has been Judge of a High Court, whose recommendation is made by
none other than the Chief Justice, who once appointed cannot be
disturbed for period of 5 years, who is allowed to choose his own
procedures, to choose his own staff and officers and is clothed with
powers of a civil court in collecting evidence. Till the final
report is made, the identity of the complainant or the person
complained against is not to be disclosed. This would also ensure
that a person's image is not tarnished by mere making of 
allegations. The Act thus achieves dual purpose. On one hand
report made by the Lokayukta after full investigation if makes
indictment of any public functionary, it would have its own effect
and political fall out. At any rate it would provide vital
information to the people who will decide the political future of
the person in the next election. On the other hand a clean chit
given by the Lokayukta would also clear the person of false and
baseless allegation. In a electoral system, often times, it is
not important whether the persons is or is not guilty. It is
important what people perceive whether he is or he is not guilty. 
By merely making allegations sometimes therefore, it is possible to
damage a person irreparably. The Act thus can be a powerful tool to
expose as also to clear those public functionaries against whom 
false allegations may have been made. 43.1		
Democracy is recognized as a basic future of our Constitution. 
Clean governance is the essence of democracy. It is also the
crying need of the day. The regularity with which allegations of
corruption are made against various public functionaries makes it
essential to create and nurture a strong and independent institution
of Lokayukta who can separate the chaff from the grain and present
before the people true facts. The scales of alleged corruption are
benumbing. Institution of Lokayukta therefore, assumes greater
significance than ever before. Its importance cannot be overstated.
 Its existence cannot be left to the discretion of the executive. 
This is the only way to interpret the provisions of the Act so as
to fulfill the aspirations of the people. 44.		We
have already noted certain decisions where the Apex Court has held 
that the Governor can in exceptional circumstances act in his/her
discretion. Such areas are recognized by various decisions of
the Apex Court. 44.1		In
the case of State of Maharashtra v. Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak (surpa), a complaint against the Chief Minister of the State was
being examined. It was on this background on a concession of the
counsel for the Chief Minister, it was held that the Governor would
be well within his power to act on his discretion. 44.2		In
decision of Election Commission of India v. Dr. Subramaniam
Swamy , (1996) 4 SCC 104, was a case of Election Commissioner,
where out of necessity the Apex Court held that the Governor had to
act on his discretion not on the aid and advise of the Council of
Ministers. 44.3		The
case of M.P. Special Police Establishment (supra) is yet another
example of discretionary powers of the Governor where question of 
granting sanction for prosecution against the Minister of the State 
came up for consideration. The Council of Ministers was of the
opinion that no such sanction should be granted. Acting on the
report of the Lokayukta, however, the Governor proceeded to grant
sanction. It was in this background, the Apex Court held and
observed as under: 44.4		In
the case of Rajendra Singh Verma (supra), a judicial officer
subordinate to the High Court was compulsorily retired on the
recommendation of the High Court. The Governor passed the order
without the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The Apex
Court turning down the challenge on the ground that the Governor
could not have acted without the aid and advise of the Council of
Ministers, observed that the High Court alone is the sole 
authority competent to initiate disciplinary proceedings against 
the subordinate judicial officers or to impose various punishments
including passing of order of compulsory retirement. The State is
least competent to aid and advise the Governor on such subjects. 
While the High Court retains the power of disciplinary control over
the subordinate judiciary including power to initiate disciplinary
proceedings, suspend them during enquiries and impose punishment on
them, but when it comes to the question of dismissal, removal or
reduction in rank or termination of services of judicial officers on
any count, whatsoever, the High Court becomes the recommending
authority and cannot itself pass the orders. The formal order to
give effect to such a decision has to be passed by the State Governor
on the recommendations of the High Court. The Apex Court,
proceeded to observed as under : 45.		In
the present case, we need not go to the extend of recognizing the
power of the Governor to act against the aid and advice of the
Council of Ministers. The situation was somewhat peculiar. The post
of Lokayukta was lying vacant for more than eight years since last
held by Justice S.M.Soni. For some reason or the other, no
appointment was forthcoming. The consultation process, as we have 
already concluded, between the Chief Minister and the Chief Justice
had finally resulted into a dead-lock when the Chief Justice 
recommending the name of Justice R.A.Mehta and the Chief Minister
acting on behalf of the Council of Ministers finally rejecting such
a choice. To our mind, therefore, there was no further consultation
possible between two dignitaries. The recommendation of the Chief
Justice, as we have already held, would have primacy and would be 
binding on the Chief Minister. It is in this context, we are of the
opinion that the Governor of the State was not acting against the aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers. No such contrary advise was
rendered. Any contrary advise would itself be unconstitutional,
because the plain meaning of our conclusion that the view of the 
Chief Justice would have primacy, would necessarily mean that when
finally, the consultative process reaches in an unresolved
situation, it would be the recommendation of the Chief Justice which
shall prevail over other views. This is not to suggest that there
should not be any meaningful, purposeful and effective consultation.
 This is only to suggest that once such process is over and if it is
not possible to achieve any unanimity, the law would not envisage a
vacuum, or a permanent impasse or no appointment. 46.		We
may trace some of the aspects emerging from the record. As already
noted, we are of the view that Lokayukta Act and the institution of
Lokayukta has an important role to play in the present
socio-economic situation in the country, where large number of
allegations are made against the public functionaries, often times
without due seriousness. People of the country have a right to be
informed about the truth or otherwise of such allegations. 
Institution of Lokayukta can play a vital role in this respect. 
The post of Lokayukta in the State of Gujarat was lying vacant
since nearly 8 years. Prior to 2006, when the initiative was taken
by the Chief Minister to consult other dignitaries, we do not know
what were the reasons for non-appointment for nearly three years.
 In any case, since 2006, when initial steps were taken, five
more more have passed. The Act , as already noted, provides that
allegations beyond five years cannot be investigated into. The
Council of Ministers, which claims the sole authority to initiate the
consultation process, also claims the exclusive right to aid and
advice the Governor in making the appointment and also asserts that
even when there is disagreement with the recommendation of the Chief
Justice, it would be the Council of Ministers' view which would
prevail, must at least make some introspection to reflect why for
eight long years no appointment of Lokayukta was made. We are not
here to conclude this issue of delay in appointment for want of
sufficient materials or even arguments. Suffice it to say, in
peculiar facts of the case, once the consultation with the Chief
Justice was over, there was no further need to wait for 
recommending the name of the person so selected for appointment. 
In the meantime, the Act itself was sought to be amended which
would require starting the entire process all over again leading to
unforeseeable further consumption of time. In fact before that
first step required would be to constitute the Committee for
selection for the post of Lokayukta. It was in this background,
the Governor acted on the recommendation of the Chief Justice. In
our opinion, the same does not mean that the Governor acted in
her absolute discretion or against the aid and advice of the
Council of Ministers. Discretion if at all exercised by her was to
act on the recommendation of the Chief Justice which in any case 
was binding on the Council of Ministers. She called for formal
recommendation from the Council of Ministers, which when was not
forthcoming, she issued appointment in tune with the recommendation
of the Chief Justice. We may notice that section 3 of the Gujarat
Lokayukta Act has a significant feature which is not found in Acts
of other States pertaining to Lokayukta which were brought to our
notice. Proviso to sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Gujarat Act 
envisages appointment of Lokayukta after consultation with the Chief
Justice and except where such appointment is to be made at a time
when legislative assembly has been dissolved or a proclamation under Article 356 of the Constitution is in operation, after consultation
with the Leader of Opposition. This requirement of consulting
leader of opposition only if the Assembly is not dissolved or
suspended is different from Bihar, Jharkhand and Orissa State Acts of
Lokayukta. Significance of this provision is that the Governor may
appoint a Lokayukta even where the State Legislative Assembly is
dissolved or is suspended. In either case, there will neither be
the leader of opposition to be consulted nor the Council of
Ministers to aid and advice the Governor. This means Governor can
appoint a Lokayukta even when there is no Council of Ministers. This 
is one more indication to believe that the post of Lokayukta cannot
be left vacant for indefinite period of time. 47.		Before
closing, we would like to dispose of a few peripheral issues. The
learned Advocate General had contended that the process adopted by
the Governor was wholly irregular. We may record that once the
Governor sought the opinion of the Attorney General and requested 
the Chief Justice to recommend only one name instead of a panel of
names, except showing initial disagreement, nothing further was done
on behalf of the Council of Ministers. We are not suggesting that
the State was expected to challenge such decision. We do not
expect and even desire the State should be a litigant in such
issues with regular frequency. Nevertheless, we may only record that
 it had virtually acquiesced into such procedure. Consultation
with the Chief Justice was under taken. The contention that the
decision of the Governor breached the rules of business also need
not detain us for long. Rules of business are essentially seen as
directory in nature and not mandatory. In this regard, we may refer
to a decision of the Apex Court in the case of Chitralekha v.
State of Mysore , reported in AIR 1964 SC 1823 wherein it was
observed as under: Ex
facie this letter shows that it was a communication of the order
issued by the Government under the signature of the Under Secretary
to the Government, Education Department. Under Art. 166 of the
Constitution all executive action of the Government of a State shall
be expressed to be taken in the name of the Governor, and that orders
made in the name of the Governor shall be authenticated in such
manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the Governor and
the validity of an order which is so authenticated shall not be
called in question on the ground that it is not an order made by the
Governor. If
the conditions laid down in this Article are complied with, the order
cannot be called in question on the ground that it is not an order
made by the Governor. It is contended that as the order in question
was not issued in the name of the Governor the order was void and no
interviews could be held pursuant to that order. The law on the
subject is well settled. In Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangurkar v. State
of Bombay , 1952 SCR 612 at p. 625 (AIR 1952 SC 181 at pp. 185-186).
Das, J., as he then was, observed: The
same view was reiterated by this Court is State of Bombay v.
Purushottam Jog Naik , 1952 SCR 674: (AIR 1952 SC 317) where it was
pointed out that though the order in question there was defective in
form it was open to the State Government to prove by other means that
such an order had been validly made. This view has been reaffirmed by
this Court in subsequent decisions: see Ghaio Mall and Sons v. State
of Delhi , 1959 SCR 1424: (AIR 1959 SC 65) and it is, therefore,
settled law that provisions of Art. 166 of the Constitution are only
directory and not mandatory in character and, if they are not
complied with, it can be established as a question of fact that the
impugned order was issued in fact by the State Government or the
Governor. The judgment of this Court in Bachhittar Singh v. State of
Punjab , (1962) Supp 3 SCR 713: (AIR 1963 SC 395) does not help the
appellants, for in that case the order signed by the Revenue Minister
was not communicated to the party and, therefore, it was held that
there was no effective order." This
view was reiterated by the Apex Court in the case of State of
U.P. vs. O.P.Gupta , AIR 1970 SC 679 wherein it was observed 
as under : This
view was also followed by the Bombay High Court in the case of Chandrakant v. State , AIR 1977 Bom. 193. We are, however, not
oblivion to the decisions in the case of Fonseca (P) Ld. v. 
L.C.Gupta , AIR 1973 SC 563 and in the case of M/s.Rajurshewar Associates v. State of Maharashtra , AIR 2004 SC 3770. In the
case of Fonseca (P) Ltd. (1973 SC 563) , as per the rules of
business, a particular authority had no power to pass order. It was
 on this background that the decision was held void. In the case
of M/s.Rajurshewar Associates (supra), we notice that the matter
was required to be placed before the Council of Ministers which was
never done. In this background, the court struck down the decision
as not fulfilling the requirements. In any case, we do not find that
any insistence on adherence of rules of business would render the
decision of the Governor bad if it is otherwise found in accordance
with the Constitutional provisions, scheme of the Act and the
requirements of the day. 48.	We
are, however, unable to concur with the stand of the Governor that
the Governor alone has the power to appoint the Lokayukta under section 3 of the Act. Section 3 of the Act envisages appointment
of Lokayukta by the Governor. Such appointment is to be made on
aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. Any other view would
create a very anomalous situation. As already noted, the appointment
is to be made after consultation with the Chief Justice as well as
the Leader of Opposition. If the above view is accepted, it would
lead to a situation where the Council of Ministers or the Chief
Minister would have no voice whatsoever in appointment of
Lokayukta. The Legislature cannot be seen to have and in fact has 
not provided for such a situation. 49.		In
the result, we do not find any reason to strike down the impugned
notification. Both the petitions are, therefore, dismissed. 50.		In
view of the above order, no further orders are necessary in the
connected Civil Applications. They also stand disposed of. (Akil
Kureshi J.)
 

 

 

							(Ms.Sonia
Gokani, J.)
 

 

 

(vjn)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dissent
: Factual
Background:- Thus, a request was made to consider, as required for the purpose of
consultation if there was any objection to the name proposed. 7.2
	Correspondence from the Chief Justice dated August 7, 2006 is
indicative that he had no objection to the appointment of Mr. Justice
K.R. Vyas, former Chief Justice Bombay High Court as Lokayukta,
Gujarat State. 7.3
	It further emerges from the record that on 10.8.2006, after the
receipt of consent from the Chief Justice, the file was sent to H.E.
the Governor, for appointment of Mr.Justice K.R.Vyas. 7.4
	The query was raised on 25.8.2006 from H.E. the Governor as to
whether the leader of opposition had been consulted in this regard or
not and request was also made to the office of Chief Minister for
sending the minutes for perusal. 7.5
Communication dated 29.8.2006 is suggestive that there is no
tradition of drawing the minutes, instead, the entire file was sent
which contained all necessary details. 7.6
On 13.9.2006 a letter was sent to the office of the Chief Minister by
H.E. the Governor posing many queries, one of which was to apprise
the Governor of the process of consultation followed by other States.
	These informations were collected and submitted to the Governor on
27.2.2007. 7.7	The
materials suggests that, thereafter, the first time on February 6,
2009 a noting was made on the file by H.E. the Governor of the
appointment of Mr.Justice K.R. Vyas as the Chairman of Maharashtra
State Human Rights Commission and on reference to the provision of Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 , it was conveyed that Mr.
Justice K.R. Vyas would be no longer available for appointment as
Lokayukta, Gujarat State in as much as he would not be eligible for
further employment as provided under Section 24(3) of the Human
Rights Act. It
was conveyed by the General Administration Department (GAD) that Section 24(3) would not come in the way of such appointment and
insistence was made for his appointment to the post of Lokayukta. 7.8
	Further noting dated 10.9.2009 by H.E. the Governor on this issue,
reads that sub-Section (3) of Section 6 of the Protection of Human
Rights Act, would not allow the person, who had held the office of
the Chairman to be eligible for the post of Lokayukta. 8.	In
this backdrop on 10.9.2009, the then Governor addressed a letter to
the Chief Minister requesting him to send a fresh proposal of the
Government for appointment of Lokayukta, after consultation with the
Hon'ble Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court and the Leader of
Opposition in the State Legislative Assembly. 9.	On
29.12.2009, a letter was sent by the Private Secretary of H.E. the
Governor to the Registrar General of the High Court, which reads
thus:- 9.1	This
was replied to by the then Registrar General on 2/1/2010 ensuring to
place the said communication before the Hon'ble Chief Justice after
Winter Vacation. 10.	On
8.2.2010, a letter was addressed by the Chief Minister to the Chief
Justice of the State mentioning that the consultation process with
regard to the appointment of Mr. Justice K.R. Vyas though was over,
by virtue of sub-Section (3) of Section 6 of the Protection of Human
Rights Act, his appointment was not feasible, names of the retired
judges of High Court of Gujarat were requested for, for consideration
and appointment to the post of Lokayukta. 10.1	In
response to the said letter of 24.2.2010, the Chief Justice sent a
penal of four names mentioning therein that all these persons are fit
to be appointed to the post of Lokayukta and chronology of names in
the letter neither depicted nor was suggestive of any preference of
his and any one of these judges could be appointed to the said post.
Letter reads thus: On
the very same day, the Chief Justice also wrote to H.E. the Governor
sending these four names of retired judges to her. 10.2	On
2.3.2010, a request was made to the Leader of Opposition of the State
Assembly by the Chief Minister to attend the meeting as a part of the
process of consultation for appointment of Lokayukta. This
move was objected to on 3.3.2010 by the Leader of Opposition by a
detailed letter essentially objecting to the initiation made by the
Chief Minister of the State. It would be apt to reproduce the
relevant contents as under:- 10.3	On
that very day i.e. on 3.3.2010, H.E. the Governor also wrote to the
Chief Minister stating that she had initiated the process of
consultation and pursuant thereto, consultation with the Leader of
Opposition is already held and she expressed that " due to
absence of legality", proposed meeting at his end be cancelled
forthwith and necessary action of consultation was to be initiated by
her only as per the Lokayukta Act . On
3.3.2010 itself, once again, a request was made to the Leader of
Opposition by the Chief Minister inviting him to the meeting on
4.3.2010 for the very purpose. 10.4	
On the ground that the Governor had already initiated the process of
consultation and also on the ground that the Council of Ministers had
no say in the appointment of Lokayukta, the request was made by the
Leader of Opposition to terminate the process of consultation 
forthwith in the communication dated 4.3.2010 addressed to the Chief
Minister, "In keeping with fitness of things" 11.1
The reply sent by the Chief Justice was indicative as to 
 which was the
better choice out of the two names mentioned in the letter of the
Governor. On 3.5.2010, the Governor wrote to the Chief Justice pursuant to
reference she had made to the Attorney General of India seeking his
expert legal opinion, urging the Chief Justice to recommend only one
suitable name in the wake of the decision of Apex Court in the case
of N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and others reported in (2009) 7 SCC
1 for this post. 12.1
After this communication of 3.5.2010, on 5.5.2010 the file was sent
back to the Council of Ministers by the Governor, by making a note
that on a reference made to the Attorney General of India seeking his
expert legal opinion, it had become clear that the Chief Justice of
the High Court is the most suitable person to know the suitability of
the person to be appointed as Lokayukta and the matter was referred
to the Hon'ble the Chief Justice for re-examining the matter, with
further direction to the Government that the file be returned once
the formal proposal was received from the Chief Justice. 12.2
	After this letter of the Governor, reply was sent by the Chief
Justice vide his letter dated 29.12.2010, noting the fact that
question was raised with regard to the name recommended earlier for
appointment to the post of Lokyukta with further mentioning that Mr.
Jutice J.R. Vora, whose name had been proposed and chosen for the
said post, had been appointed as Director of Gujarat State Judicial
Academy, in the interregnum, and therefore, his name need not be
considered for appointment to the post of Lokayukta. In this
background, recommendation of the name of Mr. Justice S.D.Dave was
made for appointment to the said post by stating that he would be
suitable for appointment to the post of Lokayukta, which carries more
responsibilities. 12.3	The
Chief Justice sent a copy of this letter to the Chief Minister
containing the same contents, on dated 31.12.2010, recommending the
name of Mr. Justice S.D. Dave for the appointment. 12.4. On 6.1.2011, the Governor wrote to the Chief Minister that as the 
recommendation was made for the name of Mr. Justice S.D. Dave,
process is required to be expedited considering the fact that the
important post was vacant for a long time. 13.	On
21.2.2011, a letter was addressed by the Chief Minister to the
Hon'ble Chief Justice urging that the entire process of consultation,
as envisaged under Section 3 of the Gujarat Lokayukta Act, had been
completed and that was done concerning one of the names (that of Mr.
Justice J.R. Vora) recommended by the Chief Justice vide his letter
dated 24.2.2010. As the entire process for his appointment had been
gone through, in the public interest, request was made to consult Mr.
Justice J.R. Vora on his willingness to assume the responsibility and
to recommend his name, once again, so that the delay in filling up
the vacancy of Lokayukta could be addressed to. 14.	On
15.3.2011, the letter was addressed by H.E. the Governor to the Chief
Minister to consider the name of Mr. Justice S.D. Dave as was
recommended by the Chief Justice as expeditiously as possible, a copy
of which was sent to the Chief Justice. 15.	
Vide letter dated 22.3.2011, Chief Justice requested the Chief
Minister to consider the name recommended on 31.12.2010 with further
mentioning that the name of Mr. Justice J. R. Vora was recalled.
Again, it was mentioned that it was not the duty of the Chief Justice
to consult Mr. Justice J.R. Vora and since he was already appointed
as Director of Gujarat State Judicial Academy, in the interest of
judiciary, for the post of Lokayukta, he requested to consider the
name of Mr. Justice S. D. Dave. 16.	On
1.5.2011 by a fax message to the Governor Mr. Justice S.D.Dave
requested Her Excellency to recall his nomination on the ground of
his personal difficulties. The letter dated 1.5.2011 reads thus:- 17.	With
this development, on 4.5.2011 the Chief Minister once again, made a
request for recommending the name of Mr. Justice J.R. Vora, by
writing to the Chief Justice, making it explicit that Mr. Justice
J.R. Vora when consulted, he had expressed his willingness to be
considered for the said post and as consultation process concerning
his name had already been gone through, it would help expedite the
process of appointment. 18.	On
7.6.2011 the Chief Justice recommended the name of Mr. Justice R.A.
Mehta for appointment on the said post in this manner:- 18.1	On
16.6.2011, the Chief Minister wrote to the Chief Justice giving
reasons as to why there were reservations against the name of Mr.
Justice R.A. Mehta. His advanced age was one of the grounds and other
grounds narrated for such reservations are as follows:- Once
again, in his communication itself, reiteration was made of
recommending the name of Mr. Justice J.R. Vora in this letter as
well. 18.2	On
that very day i.e. on 16.6.2011, H.E. the Governor wrote to the Chief
Minister and the Leader of Opposition also wrote to the Chief
Minister conveying the agreement to the appointment of Mr. Justice
R.A.Mehta as also requesting him to expedite the process of his
appointment. 18.3	On
2.8.2011, the Chief Justice wrote to the Chief Minister mentioning
therein that he gathered details of the activities of Mr. Justice
R.A. Mehta and found nothing objectionable. There was nothing which
would make him ineligible for the post of Lokayukta and he being a
member of an NGO and a social activist, on the contrary, would show
his ability to work for the society even at the age of 75 years. In
this background, a request was made by the Chief Justice vide this
letter to take up the matter with the Council of Ministers and to
forward the name of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta to Her Excellency the
Governor for his appointment as Lokayukta of the State of Gujarat. 18.4	On
18.8.2011, the Chief Minister wrote to the Chief Justice and gave
details as to why there were reservations against Mr. Justice R.A.
Mehta further substantiating those reservations with documents, and
making further request to recommend the name of a Judge recently
retired from service in the place of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta. Here
again, advanced age was also mentioned as one of the grounds for
reservation. Request made was reflected in this fashion:- 18.5	On
18.8.2010, responding to the last communication of H.E. the Governor,
Chief Minister refuted allegation of delay on the part of the State
in appointment and further wrote thus:- 19.	There
appears to be no further correspondence amongst any of the
dignitaries and on 25.8.2011, the impugned warrant came to be issued
by H.E. the Governor in her office itself and on that very day
communication in that regard had been sent to Additional
Registrar-cum-PPS to the Chief Justice by the Private Secretary to
the Governor intimating the appointment of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta as
the Lokayukta for the State of Gujarat. 20.	On
26.8.2011, a letter was sent to the office of the Chief Minister by
the Private Secretary to the Governor revealing this appointment
under the hand and seal of the Governor. 21.	It
would be also relevant, at this stage, to make a mention of some
other developments which took place during this time. The Gujarat
Bill No.29 of 2011 was passed by the Legislative Assembly on
30.3.2011 making an amendment in Section 2 in sub-Clause (7) after
sub-Clause (d) of Lokayukta Act by adding a list of various 'public
functionaries'. This was done in the wake of the recommendation of
the 13th Finance Commission. 21.2	This
Bill dated 30.3.2011, when sent for the assent of the Governor, at
her end, it was suggested 27th May 2011 that the proposed
Bill passed on recommendation of the 13th Finance Commission since
brings elected representatives of the Local Boards within its purview
and the post of Lokayukta is vacant since 2003. Besides, there were
large number of local Boards in Gujarat, one Lokayukta, however,
competent and efficient may not be in a position to look into the
complaints of irregularities and, therefore, it was suggested that
since the Bill under reference does not specify more number of
Lokayuktas, the same should be considered and that being the
limitation of the proposed Bill, for reconsideration of Assembly, the
Bill was sent back. 21.3	After
this, taking note of notings of H.E. the Governor, an ordinance was
prepared by GAD on 16.8.2011. This ordinance was sent for the
promulgation to the Governor. A detailed note was made by her
particularly objecting to the changes and modifications proposed in Sections 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 14 , 15 and 20 of the existing Gujarat Lokyukta Act,
1986 and on the ground that there was no urgency to bring such an
ordinance, the same was returned to the Government. 21.4	It
emerges from the record that once again, ordinance which was sent to
her on 20.8.2011 was returned by her to the Council of Ministers with
a further detailed note made on 26.8.2011 after issuance of warrant
on 25.8.2011. At an appropriate place, further discussion and
deliberations of these developments shall be made. Prayers/Reliefs:- 22.	On
the basis of the aforementioned factual matrix, the warrant issued on
25.8.2011 by H.E. the Governor is sought to be quashed challenging
the act of the appointment of Lokayukta with the following prayer:- 23.	It
would be necessary to make a mention here that initially H.E. the
Governor was impleaded as the party respondent. Considering the
immunity awarded to the Governor under Article 361 of the
Constitution of India, the amendment was directed vide order of this
Court dated 5.9.2011. Respondents No.2 and 3 were impleaded
subsequently. 24. 
The Registrar General, High Court of Gujarat (Respondent No.2) in his
affidavit-in-reply dated 20.9.2011, pleaded that he was not
conversant with the facts of the case and the entire issue was dealt
with by the Secretariat of the Chief Justice of High Court and thus,
he had nothing to offer to the averments made in the petition. 25.	Mr.
K.S. Prasad, Additional Registrar-cum-Principal Private Secretary to
the office of the Hon'ble the Chief Justice (Respondent No.3) filed
the affidavit-in-reply detailing the chronology of events as also
submitting the confidential photocopies of exchanges amongst various
dignitaries. Although details of these correspondences are mentioned
while mentioning facts, at appropriate junctures, their contents
shall find place in this judgment. Brief
details of other petitions:- 26.1	It
would be relevant to make a mention here that Special Civil
Application No.13499 of 2011 preferred by NCLL also sought relief of
issuance of quo warranto and other similar nature of writ. This
petition is supporting the cause of the State Government espoused in
Special Civil Application No.12632 of 2011. 2	There
	is yet another matter being WP(PIL) No.104 of 2011, which opposes
	the act of issuance of warrant by H.E. the Governor. 26.3	It
is also necessary to refer to a PIL being W.P.(PIL) No.97 of 2011, 
which has been preferred seeking appointment of Lokayukta for the
State of Gujarat where notice was issued to the State on 18.8.2011. There
is yet another writ petition being WP(PIL) No. 102 of 2011 supporting
the act of appointment . No notices were issued in other petitions
preferred to support and oppose the act of issuance of warrants,
however, all the learned advocates and Senior Counsel appearing in
those matters have been heard as interveners since those parties
moved Miscellaneous Application being Civil Application No. 9364 of
2011 with Civil Application No. 9416 of 2011 with Civil Application
No. 9363 of 2011 for being impleaded as parties in main petition
being Special Civil Application No.12632 of 2010 so as to grasp all
the issues in its entirety. Submissions
of parties and interveners:- 27.	Learned
Advocate General of the State of Gujarat was heard extensively whose
various contentions supporting the petition and the points in issue
raised are required to be summarized hereunder:- 28.	The
prepositions of law contended by the learned Advocate General are as
follows:- Corollary
to this main proposition, following propositions are raised as well:- Whether this excludes views of the Council of Ministers headed by
the Chief Minister? Whether this process should not be effective and informative one? How and wherefrom the process should be originated in absence of any
Rules and should convention be not governing the proposal? 29.	The
authorities sought to be relied upon by the learned Advocate General
can be broadly divided under three different heads as follows:- III.	Similar
was the issue where Court followed Patna High Court in the unreported
decision of Jharkhand High Court in the case of Ajit Kumar etc.
vs. State of Jharkhand and Ors. etc. in WP(PIL)No.2475 of 2001
with CWJC No.1894 of 2001 decided on 10.5.2002. IV. In the case of Ram Nagina Singh and others vs. S.V.Sohni and
others reported in AIR 1976 Patna 36 challenge was to the
role of the Governor in making an appointment without the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers and the Court held that Governor
enjoys no such power of 'eo nomine'
 

V.	In
the case of Ram Chandra Nayak vs. State of Orissa and others reported in AIR 2002 Orissa 25, where again the Court held that
under the Orissa Lokpal and Lokayuktas Acts, for appointment of
Lokpal or Lokayukta, the Governor has to act under the aid and advice
of Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister as Head. VI. In
the case of Bhuri Nath and others vs. State of J & K
and others reported in (1997) 2 SCC 745, a distinction was
drawn between the executive power of the State and exercise of power
by the Governor and the President in official capacity, holding that
unless the Governor is required by the Constitution to exercise 
individual discretion, exercise of executive powers which is
coextensive with the legislative power is only with the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister. VII.	Reliance
also was placed on the judgment of Centre for PIL and another
vs. Union of India and another reported in (2011) 4 SCC 1
where the appointment of Central Vigilance Commissioner was under Other
decisions sought to be depended on are : 30.	Learned
Senior Counsel Mr. Mihir Thakor in support of the petition of NCLL
(being Special Civil Application No.13499 of 2011) fervently
submitted that the constitutional scheme as envisaged and adopted by
the nation is democratic Parliamentary System and it can sustain only
on scrupulous adherence to the principles embodied in the
Constitution where both the President and the Governor are to act in
aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. 31.	It
is further urged that debates made in the Constituent Assembly are
eloquently clear that the Governor and the President have no role to
act independently except in the areas specified under the
Constitution. 32.	It
was extensively and strenuously urged that when it is said that 'King
can do no wrong', it essentially speaks of liability of elected
representatives whose acts are made liable under the Constitution and
this adoption of core principles of Parliamentary democracy cannot be
allowed to be disregarded by any authority. 33.	
It is the submission of the learned counsel that in the instant
case, Governor could not have directly appointed the Lokayukta
without the advice of the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief
Minister. He further extended it by saying that the appointment of
the Lokayukta under Section 3 is contemplated even when the
Legislative Assembly is dissolved and in such a situation also, the
Governor needs to depend on the advice of the Council of Ministers
headed by the Prime Minister, but, has no power to act
independently. According to the learned counsel, the decision of the
Apex Court in the case of M.P. Special Police Establishment vs.
State of M.P. and others reported in (2004) 8 SCC 788
contemplated independent functioning of Governor in a
situation where democracy is at peril and that judgment has no
application whatsoever in the present case. 34.	He
further urged this Court that if the act of issuance of warrant by
the Governor is not interfered with, it would not only amount to
permitting creation of two power centers, but, that would also
tantamount to disregarding Constitutional mandate which has carved
out the specific role of Governor in the Parliamentary democracy. It
was further contended that the conventions have very potent role to
play. However, he depended largely on the submission of the learned
Advocate General in this regard. 35.	Heavy
reliance was placed on the judgment of Samsher Singh vs. State
of Punjab and another (supra) to define the role of
Governor under the Constitution. Particularly, emphasizing this role
as executive authority on aid and advice of Council of Ministers. Reliance
on the case of Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur and others vs
The State of Punjab reported in AIR 1955 SC 549 is
also to indicate the role of the Governor, under the Constitution,
wherein the Apex Court has held as under:- The Cabinet enjoying as
it does a majority in the legislature concentrates in itself the
virtual control of both legislative and executive functions and as
the Ministers constituting the Cabinet on presumably agreed on
fundamentals and act on the principle of collective responsibility,
the most important questions of policy are all formulated by them." 36.	The
debate of Constituent Assembly sought to be relied upon shall be
reflected at an appropriate stage. Suffice to specify at this
juncture that these debates cumulatively indicate the role of
Governor in carrying out all the functions and exercise powers unless
otherwise indicated, on advice of Council of Ministers. 37.	Learned
advocate Mr. Shalin Mehta appearing for presenting the factual
details from the Hon'ble the Chief Justice has elaborately dealt
with all the points in issues proposed with a specific note in the
beginning that though he has a very limited role to play, while
presenting the factual details from the Chief Justice, in his
endeavour to assist the Court on all respects, particularly, on all
the queries raised by the Court his submissions were made. The thrust
of the arguments were as follows:- Reliance
was placed upon the judgment of Justice K.P.Mohapatra vs. Sri
Ram Chandra Nayak and others (supra), which according to him
makes it very clear that the appointment suffers no illegality. (v)	He
agreed that it is an acceptable general rule that the Governor needs
to act on aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. However, there
are exceptions carved out and the present case falls under one of
such exceptions. It was reiteratively urged to this Court that nobody
can be a judge in his own case and there would be naturally inherent
bias of Council of Ministers when there arises a question of
appointment of Lokayukta. Heavy
reliance was placed on N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and
others (supra), to insist that process of recommendation was
as required under the law. (vi)	Learned
Advocate Mr. Shalin Mehta since had equated the post of Lokayukta
with that of the Ombudsman, he relied upon the text and the material
of Administrative law to highlight importance of Ombudsman and his
vital role as a watchdog in Parliamentary democracy, which is as
follows:- It
is required to be noted that though as a counsel representing
Secretariat of Chief Justice, limited role was to be played by
learned advocate Mr. Mehta, he contributed on each of the aspects
concluding that the warrant dated 25.8.2011 was legally executed. 38.	Learned
Senior Counsel Mr. Girish Patel challenged the very maintainability
of this petition and questioned as to against whom the writ of quo
warranto could be issued as Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta has not taken
charge of the office of Lokayukta. It
was emphasized by learned Senior Counsel that since last 8 years no
appointment has been made in the State. Consultation with authorities
was going on from the year 2006. This is an exceptional situation in
as much as the entire process of appointment has been subverted by
introducing the Bill and attempting the promulgation of ordinance
which would have changed the very nature and power of all the
dignitaries. It is further urged that in the earlier PIL filed being
SCA 5667 of 2010, learned Additional Advocate General had ensured
that the appointment of Lokyukta was almost at the fag end, but, for
nearly one year, it has not seen the light of the day. He also
emphasized appropriate invocation of the "doctrine of
necessity" keeping in view the developments of last one week
prior to the issuance of the warrant on 25.8.2011. He
also emphasized that the appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 was sought to be made
when the process was almost at the penultimate stage and that in his
opinion was to take out from the purview many serious issues which
otherwise were to fall under the jurisdiction of Lokayukta. 38.1	On
the basis of these submissions, it has been fervently urged by the
learned Senior Counsel to dismiss the petition and he substantiated
his version by following authorities:- Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India and others reported in AIR 1988 SC 782. (5)	Ashish
Handa, Advocate vs. Hon'ble the Chief Justice of High Court of Punjab
& Haryana and others reported in (1996) 3 SCC 145. (6)	J. Jayalalitha vs. Her Excellency The Governor decided by Madras
High Court on 1.10.1997. ( 7)	S.R.
Chaudhuri vs. State of Punjab and others reported in (2001) 7
SCC 126. ( 8)	Ajit
Kumar vs. State of Jharkhand and ors. decided by Jharkhand High
Court on 10.5.2002. ( 9)	M.P.
Special Police Establishment vs. State of M.P. and others reported in (2004) 8 SCC 788. ( 10)	Rameshwar
Prasad (IV) and others vs. Union of India and another reported in
(2005) 7 SCC 157. ( 11)	Justice
K.P. Mohapatra vs. Sri Ram Chandra Nayak and others reported in
(2002) 8 SCC 1. ( 12)	Rameshwar
Prasad and Ors. vs. Union of India and Anr. reported in AIR
2006 SC 980. (13)	N.
Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and others reported in (2009) 7 SCC 1.
 

 

 

38.2	As
some of the authorities sought to be relied upon by both the sides
are common, they have been discussed briefly earlier and shall be
discussed at an appropriate place. Some of the authorities submitted
are new and require a brief mentioning. (i)	In
the case of State of Maharashtra vs. Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak and
another (supra), question was of permission of prosecution
against the Chief Minister of State of Maharashtra, where the Court
has held that the Governor need not act on the basis of the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers. The doctrine of necessity has
been invoked here in the following manner:- (ii)	In
the case of M/s. Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India
and others (supra), it was held that firstly
the object and reasons of the Act should be taken into consideration 
in interpreting the provisions of the statute in case of doubt.
Secondly, documents which were sought to be produced in Court, were
part of the preparation of documents, leading to formation of the
advice tendered to the President of India and as such were privileged
under Article 74(2) of the Constitution. The question was whether the
advice tendered by the Ministers to the President can be inquired
independently. (iii)	In
the case of J. Jayalalitha vs. Her Excellency The Governor reliance was on the decision of State of Maharashtra vs. Ramdas
Shrinivas Nayak and another (supra), it was held that the
question of sanction against the Minister deserved to be decided by
the Governor in his individual discretion and also further observed
that the decision of the Governor to act as per his own discretion
was final. (iv)	
In the case of S.R. Chaudhuri vs. State of Punjab and others (supra), it was a question where there were repeated appointments of
a non-legislator as Minister, each time for a period of six
consecutive months, which was held to be subversion of Parliamentary
democracy. "39. India is a
Democratic Republic. Its chosen system of political organisation is
reflected in The Preamble to the Constitution, which indicates the
source from which the Constitution comes, viz., "WE THE PEOPLE
OF INDIA". By permitting a non-legislator Minister to be
reappointed,without getting elected with the period prescribed by Article 164(4) , would amount to ignoring the electorate in having its
say as to who should represent it - a position which is wholly
unacceptable. The seductive temptations to cling to office regardless
of constitutional restraint must be totally eschewd. Will of the
people cannot be permitted to be subordinated to political expediency
of the Prime Minster or the Chief Minister as the case may be, to
have in his cabinet a non-legislator as a Minister for an indefinite
period by repeated reappointments without the individual seeking
popular mandate of the electorate. 40. Chief Ministers or
the Governors, as the case may be, must for ever remain conscious of
their constitutional obligations and not sacrifice either political
responsibility or parliamentary conventions at the altar of political
expediency". Prof. B. O. Nwabueze in his book Constitutionalism
in the Emergent States" (1973 Edition - page 139), almost thirty
years ago warned : (Emphasis ours) (v)	
In the case of Rameshwar Prasad and Ors. vs. Union of India and
Anr. (supra), reliance is sought to be placed on following
relevant paragraphs:- (vi).	While
emphasizing that office of Lokayukta is the Court, quoting, the case
of N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and others (supra)
reliance is also sought to be placed on following relevant paragraphs
to drive point home as to how the interpretation of statute is
required to be done:- 47. xxx xxx xxx 48. xxx xxx xxx 49. xxx xxx xxx 50. xxx xxx xxx 51. xxx xxx xxx 52. xxx xxx xxx 53. xxx xxx xxx 54.	A case of this nature
is a matter of moment. It concerns public interest. Public
information about independence and impartiality of the judiciary
would be in question. The duty of all organs of the State is that the
public trust and confidence in the judiciary may not go in vain.
Construction of a statute would not necessarily depend upon
application of any known formalism. It must be done having regard to
the text and context thereof. For the aforementioned purpose, it is
necessary to take into consideration the statutory scheme and the
purpose and object it seeks to achieve. 55.	xxx xxx xxx 56.	xxx xxx xxx 57.	Yet again, in K.P.
Varghese v. ITO the strict literal reading of a statute was avoided
as by reason thereof several vital considerations, which must always
be borne in mind, would be ignored, stating (SCC p.180, para 5)
 

	"5. ...The task of
interpretation of a statutory enactment is not a mechanical task. It
is more than a mere reading of mathematical formulae because few
words possess the precision of mathematical symbols. It is an attempt
to iscover the intent of the legislature from the language used by it
and it must always be rememberd that language is at best an imperfect
instrument for the expression of human thought and as pointed out by
Lord Denning, it would be idle to expect every statutory provision to
be 'drafted with divine prescience and perfect clarity'. We can do no
better than repeat the famous words of Judge Learned Hand when he
said: 1 st 
issue: Role of Governor in appointment of Lokayukta:- 45.	The
executive powers of the State are to be exercised by the Governor
directly or through the subordinate as held in the case of Rai
Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur and others vs The State of Punjab (supra).
 This expression is very vide. It connotes the residue of
governmental functions that remain after the legislative and
judicial functions are taken away. In
the case of S.R. Chaudhuri vs. State of Punjab and others (supra), while dealing with British conventions the Apex Court held
as under:- 46.	Thus,
all other functions, other than legislative and judicial powers are
vested by Article 154(1) in Governor. This vesting, of course, does
not operate to transfer to the Governor powers conferred on any
other authority by existing law and it also cannot prevent the
Parliament or the legislature of the State from conferring any such
powers to other authorities which is subordinate to the Governor. 47.	With
this, vital shall be the examination of scheme of Articles 163 of the
Constitution. Article
163 of the Constitution runs as under:- 48. In
the case of Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur and others vs The State of
Punjab (supra), the Apex Court says that Article 163 makes it
clear that "the Governor occupies the positions of the head of
the executive in the state but it is virtually the Council of 
Ministers in each state that curves on the executive Government."
It also says that except in those cases specified under the
Constitution, the Governor is to act on the aid and advice of the
Ministers. 49.	The
Constitution envisages the Parliamentary System of the government
both at the Union and at the State level where "neither the
President nor the Governor is to exercise function personally" 50.	In
the case of Samsher Singh (supra) the Apex Court has
further held in connection with this issue:- 28. Under the Cabinet
system of Government as embodied in our Constitution the Governor is
the constitutional or formal head of the State and he exercises all
his powers and functions conferred on him by or under the
Constitution on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers save
in spheres where the Governor is required by or under the
Constitution to exercise his functions in his discretion. xxx xxx xxx 32. It is a fundamental
principle of English constitutional law that Ministers must accept
responsibility for every executive act. In England the sovereign
never acts on his own responsibility. The power of the sovereign is
conditioned by the practical rule that the Crown must find advisers
to bear responsibility for his action. Those advisers must have the
confidence of the House of Commons. This rule of English
constitutional law is incorporated in our Constitution. Indian
Constitution envisages a parliamentary and responsible form of
Government at the Centre and in the States and not a Presidential
form of Government. The powers of the Governor as the constitutional
head are not different. xxx xxx xxx 57. For the foregoing
reasons we hold that the President or the Governor acts on the aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the
head in the case of the Union and the Chief Minister at the head in
the case of State in all matters which vest in the executive whether
those functions are executive or legislative in character. Neither
the President nor the Governor is to exercise the executive functions
personally." Respective
roles and powers of both the President and the Governor in
west-ministerial democracy are summarized in this decision of Samsher
Singh's case (supra) with very powerful words thus:- 51.	It
would be relevant to reproduce some of the findings of the Apex Court
arrived at in the case of Bhuri Nath and others vs. State of J
& K and others (supra):- 52. In
the case of Kehar Singh and another vs. Union of India and
another (Supra), the Apex Court held as under:- To any civilised society,
there can be no attributes more important than the life and personal
liberty of its members. That is evident from the paramount position
given by the Courts to Art. 21 of the Constitution. These twin
attributes enjoy a fundamental ascendancy over all other attributes
of the political and social order, and consequently, the Legislature,
the Executive and the Judiciary are more sensitive to them than to
the other attributes of daily existence. The deprivation of personal
liberty and the threat of the deprivation of life by the action of
the State is in most civilised societies regarded seriously, and
recourse, either under express constitutional provision or through
legislative enactment is provided to the judicial organ. But, the
fallibility of human judgment being undeniable even in the most
trained mind, a mind resourced by a harvest of experience, it has
been considered appropriate that in the matter of life and personal
liberty, the protection should be extended by entrusting power
further to some high authority to scrutinise the validity of the
threatened denial of life or the threatened or continued denial of
personal liberty. The power so entrusted is a power belonging to the
people and reposed in the highest dignitary of the State. In England,
the power is regarded as the royal prerogative of pardon exercised by
the Sovereign, generally through the Home Secretary. It is a power
which is capable of exercise on a variety of grounds, for reasons of
State as well as the desire to safeguard against judicial error. It
is an act of grace issuing from the Sovereign. In the United
States, however, after the founding of the Republic, a pardon by the
President has been regarded not as a private act of grace but as a
part of the constitutional scheme. In an opinion, remarkable for its
crudities and clarity, Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the Court in
W. I. Biddle v. Vuco Perovich, (1926) 71 Law ed 1161 enunciated this
view, and it has since been affirmed in other decisions. The power to
pardon is a part of the constitutional scheme, and we have no doubt,
in our mind, that it should be so treated also in the Indian
Republic. It has been reposed by the people through the Constitution
in the Head of the State, and enjoys high status. It is a
constitutional responsibility of great significance, to be exercised
when occasion arises in accordance with the discretion contemplated
by the context. It is not denied, and indeed it has been repeatedly
affirmed in the course of argument by learned counsel, Shri Ram
Jethmalani and Shri Shanti Bhushan, appearing for the petitioners
that the power to pardon rests on the advice tendered by the
Executive to the President, who subject to the provisions of Art.
74(l) of the Constitution, must act in accordance with such advice. We may point out that the Constitution Bench of this Court held in Maru Ram v. Union of India , (1981) 1 SCR 1196 : (AIR 1980 SC 2141)
that the power under Art. 72 is to be exercised on the advice of the
Central Government and not by the President on his own, and that the
advice of the Government binds the Head of the State."(emphasis
supplied) 53.	As
an aid to interpret the constitutional provisions the Court needs to
find out the intention of the framers of the Constitution and debates
in the Constituent Assembly is one of the vital and recognized aids
and the same can be relied upon as held by the Apex Court in the
case of S.R. Chaudhuri vs. State of Punjab and others (supra). This judgment further says that:- 54.	The
role of the Governor envisaged at the time of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 debates in the of
Constituent Assembly would be relevant which can throw better light
on the issue at this stage:- If this amendment were
accepted by the House, this clause of article 143 would read thus:- Sir, it appears from a
reading of this clause, that the Government of India Act , of 1935 has
been copied more or less blindly without mature consideration. There
is no strong or valid reason for giving the Governor more authority
either in his discretion or otherwise vis-a-vis his ministers, than
has been given to the President in relation to his ministers. If we
turn to article 61(1) , we find it reads as follows:- It will cumbrous to say at the opening of each article
"Notwithstanding anything contained in article 143 the Governor
can act on his own responsibility". xxx	xxx	xxx
 

 

 

	"The Governor's
ministers shall be appointed by him and shall hold office during his
pleasure." Debates on Articles
147 to 167
 

	"Shri H.V.
Kamath:	Mr. President, 	I fail to see any valid reason for the
retention of this article. It may be argued that it is on the same
lines as an article which we have already adopted with reference to
the President. But, now that we have accepted nominated Governors in
the States, this articles, to my mind, requires to be recast, if not
entirely deleted. There are certain
aspects in this article which are wholly incongruous with, at least
not in conformity with, the principle of nominated Governors for the
States. If the House will carefully consider clause(c) of this
article, to take only one instance, the House will see that the
nominated Governor has been given power to interfere in what may be
called the day-to-day business of the Council of Ministers. I wonder
why the Governor should call upon the Chief Minister to submit for
the consideration of the Council of Ministers any matter on which a
decision has been taken by a Minister but which has not been
considered by the Council. I submit that this is entirely a matter
for the Council to decide among themselves and to arrive at any
particular procedure they like. If a matter has been considered by
one of the Ministers, but has not been considered by the whole
Council, the Governor cannot step in and tell the Chief Minister,
'you must put it before the Council of Ministers'. The Chief Minister
and his colleagues are competent enough to decide which matter should
go before the Council and which it is not necessary to be put before
the Council. This to my mind is in tune with the tenets of
constitutional democracy that we propose to set up in the States. xxx xxx xxx
 

 

 

Dr.P.S. Deshmukh(C.P.
& Berar:General): Mr. President, Sir, I am afraid I am not able
to agree with my honourable Friend Mr. Kamath in his suggestion that
the article should be omitted. If he were to pay a little more
attention to the provisions made by article 146 , which we have just
passed he will, I think, admit the wisdom of incorporating this
artilce in the Constitution. Now under article 146 every order which
is issued by the Ministry or the Cabinet or even individual Ministers
will be an order which will be published and proclaimed in the name
of the Governor. If article 147 is not there, there is nothing which
will empower the Governor to know the various actions taken from day
to day, and the orders pased and issued in his name. My Friend has
said that this would refer even to routine matters. I can tell him,
Sir, that ordinary matters which are unimportant and which are of a
routine nature. I am sure, no Governor in his wisdom would like to
question, or request the Chief Minister that they should go to the
Cabinet for reconsideration
 

Shri H.V. Kamnath:What
is the guarantee? Dr.P.S. Deshmukh: Some honourable Members
who spoke are under the impression that a Constitutional Head has no
functions at all and that he has to do nothing else than to endorse
what the Premier or the Ministers do, without even giving them the
benefit of his advice or giving them the impressions of a detached
spectator on governmental actions. This I subit is entirely wrong.
The Governmental set-up which we have envisaged is on the model of
the British Constitution. Article 147 is repetition of article 65 which we have already accepted with regard to the President in the
Centre. The responsibility of the Government, if at all, is much more
comprehensive and stronger in the Centre under this Constitution than
in the Provinces. In view of this, I cannot understand why these
objections are taken again in respect of the same powers. My Friend, Mr. Gupte,
referred to sub-clause(c) and asked the question, where is the
Governor to get the information from? If you read sub-clause (b), it
says;- Under this clause it
will be open for the Governor to ask the Chief Minister for
information with regard to important questions and if he feels that
certain decisions have been taken not by the Cabinet as a whole but
by an individual Minister which requires reconsdieration at the hands
of the Cabinet as a whole, clause © will given him the power to
get that done. What is wrong about it? When a Minister acts behind
the back of his colleagues, behind the back of the Chief Minister who
is responsible for all the actions of the Ministers, why cannot the
Governor say,"Here is a particular order. I feel that it is a
matter of great importance. I want that by virtue of collective
responsibility all the Ministers must meet together and consider it"?
 If they accept it, he is bound to accept their advice. He has no
right to over-rule them. It is merely a matter of caution that a
decision, which in the opinion of the Constitutional head, is such as
requires the imprimatur of the whole Cabinet and not of a single
Minister, should so receive it. Therefore it is a safeguard which
preserves the collective responsibility and the powers of the Prime
Minister, and not a power which interferes with the Government.
Therefore the fear that it would so interfere is entirely unfounded. xxx xxx xxx
 

 

 

Shri K.M.Munshi:	I
want to make it clear that the position of the Governor must be
considered from the point of view of the constitutional head as in
England. A constitutional head is not a cipher. I will read for the
benefit of the House the position of the King in England as
enunciated by the late Mr.Asquith who could not be considered a weak
Prime Minister at any time of his life. This is his definition of the
position of the constitutional head in England:- xxx xxx xxx
 

 

 

	The Honourable
Dr.B.R.Ambedkar:-As the debate has taken place and as several
Members of the House seem to think that there is something behind
this article 147 which would put the position of the Ministers and of
the Cabinet in the provinces in jeopardy, I propose to offer some
explanation. The first thin I would
like the House to bear in mind in this. The Governor under the
Constitution has no functions which he can discharge by himself; no
functions at all. While he has no functions, he has certain duties to
perform, and I think the House will do well to bear in mind this
distinction. This article certainly, it should be borne in mind, does
not confer upon the Governor the power to overrule the Ministry on
any particular matter. Even under this article, the Governor is bound
to accept the advice of the Ministry. That I think, ought not to be
forgotten. This article, nowhere, either in clause (a) or clause (b)
or clause(c), says that the Governor in any particular circumstances
may overrule the Ministry. Therefore, the criticism that has been
made that this article somehow enables the Governor to interfere or
has upset the decision of the Cabinet is entirely beside the point,
and completely mistaken. 55.	It
will be apt to make a note of some of the commentaries given by Ivor
Jennings under the title of Cabinet Government for better
understanding of the subject:- 56.	Thus,
on the basis of the discussion held here, it can be said that except
those functions/areas which have been specifically carved out under
the Constitution, the Governor has to act with the aid and advice of
the Council of Ministers. It
would be important to make a mention that though the advice tendered
to the Council of Ministers cannot be questioned or inquired into by
the Court, but when the decision is taken by the Governor without the
aid and advice of the Court, the Court can look into the same and
this is well laid down preposition of law. Reference needs to be made
in the case of L.G. Chaudhari vs. The Secretary, L.S.G. Dept.,
Govt. of Bihar and others reported in AIR 1980 SC 383
and also in the case of State of M.P. vs. Nandlal Jaiswal reported in AIR 1987 SC 251. 57. In
the case of Rameshwar
Prasad (IV) and others vs. Union of India and another , the
Apex Court has held as under:- It is also further held in
this judgment that " The immunity granted under Article 361 does not mean that in the absence of Governor, the ground of mala
fides on proclamation being ultra vires would not be examined by the
Court. 58.	Necessary
at this stage is to construe the provision of Article 166 :- For
the conduct of the Government's business Article 166(1) , provides
that all executive actions of the Governor shall be expressly taken
in the name of the Governor. Article 166(3) envisages making of the
Rules by the Governor to allocate all his functions to the Ministers
under the Rule of business except those where discretion, under the
Constitution, has been vested in the Governor and the same is to be
exercised by him or her individually. 59.	In
Samsher Singh's case (AIR 1974 SC 2192 at P. 2198),
this Court had held thus: 20.	The constitutional
mechanism, i.e., Cabinet system of Government is devised for
convenient transaction of business of the executive power of the
State. Though constitutionally the executive power of the State
vests in the Governor, he does not, unless Constitution expressly 
conferred on him, personally take the decision. The decisions are
taken according to business rules at different levels and
ultimately the decision rests with the authority specified in the
business rules and is expressed to be taken in the name of the
Governor. In substance and the reality, decisions are taken by the
Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister or the Minister or
Secretary as per business rules. But they are all expressed to be
taken by the Council of Ministers in the name of the Governor and
authenticated by an authorised officer. The Governor being the
constitutional head of' the State, unless he is required to perform
the function under the Constitution in his individual discretion, the
performance of the executive power, which is coextensive with the
legislative power, is with the aid and the advice of the Council of
Ministers headed by the Chief Minister. 21. As posed earlier, the
question is; when the Governor discharges the functions under the
Act, is it with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers or in
his official capacity as the Governor ? The legislative is aware of
the above constitutional mechanism of governance." 60.	Thus,
when the responsibility for the decision taken as held in Samsher
Singh's case (supra) rests with the Council of Ministers
headed by the Chief Minister, unless required by the Constitution,
transaction of business of executive powers of the State shall need
to be as contemplated under the Rules of business and no individual
discretion is required to be exercised by the Governor in those
cases. 61.	A
reference shall be made at this stage to the following two
authorities, namely that of A.Sanjeevi Naidu etc. vs. State of
Madras reported in AIR 1970 SC 1102 paragraphs
11 and 12 are reproduced as under:- In
the case of State of M.P. vs. Dr.Yashwant Trimbak reported
in 1996 (2) SCC 305 paragraphs 17 and 18 of the second
authority." 18.	Therefore excepting
the matters with respect to which the Governor is required by or
under the Constitution to act in his discretion, the personal
satisfaction of the Governor is not required and any function may be
allocated to Minister." 62.
	In the light of the discussion made hereinabove, Section 3 of the
Gujarat Lokayukta Act,1986, if is examined, at this stage, it reads
as follows:- 3.	Appointment
of Lokayukta.-(l)
For the purpose of conducting investigations in accordance with the
provisions of this Act,the Governor shall, by warrant under his hand
and seal, appoint a person to be known as the Lokayukta: 63.	There
does not appear to be any indication in the statute, much less a
strong and clear indication, which will suggest departure from the
tenets of Parliamentary democracy for this Court to hold that the
appointment under Section 3 of the Gujarat Lokayukta Act,1986 was not
to be done under the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. On
the contrary, all indications are that this appointment is
essentially required to be done by the Governor only on aid and
advice and there is no discretion permitted by this statue that could
be exercised considering the scheme of the Constitution and more
particularly, Articles 163 and 166 of the Constitution. It
is also required to be noted here that under the Rules of Business of
government of Gujarat subject of appointment
of Lokayukta
is chronologically numbered as 36(A)
titled as the Gujarat Government Rules of Business, 1990. Under
Part-II of these Rules, subject is allocated to the General
Administration Department (GAD) and thus, there is a specific
allotment of the business by the Governor. Even
considering the submission of other side that Article 166 is to be
construed directory and not mandatory, then also, it is indicative
of the fact that
this is an area where discretion under the Constitution was not to be
exercised by the Governor. In
case of M/s Rajureshwar Associates V/s. State of Maharashtra and
others reported in AIR 2004 Supreme Court 3770, 
the Chief Minister informally directed not to place before the
Cabinet matter even where there was non concurrence
of Finance Department despite Business Rule 11(2) of the Government
of Maharastra required placing of such matter before the cabinet in
such eventuality. Apex Court disapproved such a bypassing of business
rules thus : 64.	Similar
such issue had arisen before the Patna High Court where the question
was whether the Governor had power to appoint a Lokayukta under the Bihar Lokayukta Act . In the case of Ram
Nagina Singh and others vs. S. V. Sohni and others (supra), it has been held in clear terms by Patna High Court that the
appointment of Lokayukta can be made by the Governor only on the aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers and not independently, which
reads as under:- xxx xxx xxx 26. The other objections
raised on behalf of the petitioners is that the expression inquiry in Article 163 (3) of the Constitution does not apply to cases where
either facts are admitted or where all the relevant and material
facts are placed before the Court and they lead to only one
conclusion. Where a decision has to be arrived at by looking into
materials on the record, it is plain that it is only after an inquiry
that any conclusion can be arrived at. The Court does in such a
situation, inquire into a matter. Further, in my view, where the
foundation of a decision is existence or non-existence of a fact, it
cannot be said that the Court does not inquire into it even though it
is on the basis of such existence or non-existence that a conclusion
is arrived at. It is, therefore, clear that even where facts are
admitted, no conclusion is possible without inquiring into a matter
or issue which is pre-requisite to the exercise of the jurisdiction
or power of the Court in the matter of giving relief to a party in a
judicial proceeding. It would thus be not correct to say that if a
fact in issue is admitted the court has not to inquire into it. The
bar here is on inquiry and not what a party chooses to call as
evidence to prove and disprove the facts. The issue is inherent in
the controversy itself. 27.	Learned counsel for
the petitioners further contended that Article 163 (3) creates a
privilege in favour of the State and it is capable of being waived.
In this case, it is said, it has actually been waived. But as I read
the Article, I do not think that any question of privilege is
involved. The Article is a bar to the jurisdiction of the Court to
inquire into specified matters. There is a clear difference between a
privilege and a bar to the jurisdiction of the Court. The Article
does not create any privilege but contemplates that certain matters
shall not be inquired into by Courts.55 In this view of the matter
the last contention in relation to Article 163 (3) of the
Constitution also cannot be accepted." 65.	In
 the case of Ajit Kumar etc. vs. State of Jharkhand and Ors.
etc.(supra) one of the Judges(J. Iqbal) dealt with the powers
of Governor in the appointment of Lokayukta as under:- Section
3 of Gujarat Lokayukta Act provides for appointment even when
legislative assembly is dissolved, but that also is no indication of
independent powers of the Governor and in such circumstances,
Governor is required to act on aid and advice of Council of Ministers
headed by the Prime Minister. Governor therefore, also cannot draw 
its powers from these wordings and insist on independent exercise of
powers. The Act suggests no departure from the constitutional
requirements certainly. Before
concluding this issue, exceptions spelt out by the Constitution for
the Governor to act independently are to be reproduced from Samsher
Singh's case(supra):- 66.	It
can thus be concluded from the discussion held herein above that in
Parliamentary form of democracy, Governor though exercises executive
powers, these powers are necessarily to be exercised with the aid and
advice of the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister
unless the constitutional provisions carve out areas permitting
individual discretion of the Governor. Moreover,
for all the executive functions to be carried out in the name of
Governor who is constitutional head, these executive functions are to
be carried out as per business rules and allocation of subjects in
the rules determines the authority and decision of such a subject
rests with such authority specified in the business rules. And yet,
in substance, it is the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief
Minister which owes collective responsibility for every decision
taken expressly in the name of the Governor under the business rules. Appointment
of Lokayukta for the State of Gujarat since falls under the Business
Rules ( Item No.36A First Schedule of the Gujarat Government Rules of
Business, 1990), with no indication much less strong indication in
the statute of Governor having been invested with the power to
exercise personal discretion, appointment of Lokayukta though
expressly done in the name of Governor, Lokayukta has to be appointed
only on aid and advice of Council of Ministers headed by the Chief
Minister. 67.	In
such premise, whether the appointment made of the Lokayukta in the
instant case, is justifiable and whether there existed compelling
reasons which could have permitted the Governor to exercise such
powers independently arising from any express provisions of the
Constitution or otherwise shall be dealt with later on in this
judgment. Office
of Lokayukta- Whether Court or has trappings of Court:- 68.	As
provided under Section 3 of the Lokayukta Act, appointment is
expressly to be done by the Governor on aid and advice of Council of
Ministers headed by the Chief Minister who are required to so do it
after consultation with the Chief Justice and the Leader of the
Opposition party. And, that brings to the fore second vital question
as to whether the office of the Lokayukta is Court or has trappings
of the Court or not. This
question assumes importance as that would determine the extent of
power of each dignitary in making such appointment and that also
would have vital bearing on applying the law laid down by the Apex
Court in appointment of judges and Presiding Officers for the Courts
and such institutions/offices which can be termed Courts or having 
trappings of Courts. 69.	It
would be relevant to consider the scheme of the present Act of the
Lokayukta before examining this question. Relevant provisions for 
the purpose of this question would be in Sections 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 :- 4.	Disabilities
in the case of Lokayukta.-(l)
The Lokayukta shall 
not be a member of Parliament or a member of
the Legislature of any State and
shall not hold any office of trust or profit (other than his office
as the Lokayukta) or be connected with any political party or shall
not carry on any business or practice any profession: A person shall be disqualified for appointment as a Lokayukta or for
continuing to hold any such post if any member of his family has
entered into any commercial contract with the State Government and,
the contract is subsisting or has any other dealing with the State!
Government
relating to any business of a commercial nature. Explanation.-For
the purpose of sub-section (2), the expression "family"
means wife, husband, son, unmarried daughter, and son's wife. 5.
Term of office and other conditions of service of Lokayukta - Every person appointed as the Lokayukta shall hold office for a term
of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office: (3)	There
shall be paid to the Lokayukta such salary as is specified in the
Second Schedule. (4)	The
allowances and pension payable to. and other conditions of service
of, the Lokayukta shall be such as may be prescribed: 6.	Removal
of Lokayukta.-The
Lokayukta shall not. be removed from his office except by an order
made by the Governor on the ground of proved misbehaviour or
incapacity after an inquiry made by the Chief Justice of the High
Court or, as the case may be, by such other judge of the High Court,
as the Chief Justice may nominate in this behalf, in which the
Lokayukta had been informed of the charges against him and given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges. 7.	Matters
	which maybe investigated by Lokayukta. (1)
	Subject to the 	provisions of this Act, the Lokayukta may
	investigate any action which is 	taken by, or with the general or
	specific approval of a public functionary 	in any case where a
	complaint involving an allegation is made in respect 	of such action
	or such action can be or could have been in the opinion 	of the
	Lokayukta the subject of an allegation. (2)	No
matter in respect of which a complaint is made under this 
Act
shall be referred to a Commission for inquiry under the Commis- 
sions
of Inquiry Act, 1952 except on the recommendation or with the
concurrence of the Lokayukta: plainant
shall be informed accordingly. An investigation under this section of an action taken by or with 
the
general or specific approval of a public functionary shall not
be 
affected merely on the ground that subsequent to such action
such 
public functionary ceased to hold the capacity in which the
action was 
taken by him or with his approval or ceased to be such
public 
functionary.' 8.	Matters
not subject to Investigation.-(1)
The Lokayukta shall' 
not investigate any action,-- (a)	
in respect of which a formal and public inquiry has been ordered
under the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (37 of 1850) with his
prior concurrence, or (b)	in
respect of a matter which has been referred for inquiry under the
Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 on his recom­mendation or, with
his prior concurrence or by the State Government under the proviso to
sub-section (2) of section 7. or (c)	in
respect of a matter which has been inquired into under the enactments
referred to in clauses (a) arid (b) or has been finally decided by a
competent court. (2).	The
	Lokayukta shall not investigate any complaint which is excluded from
	 his jurisdiction by virtue of a notification issued under section 20.
	 

	(3)		The
	Lokayukta shall not inquire into any matter concerning any person if
	he has any bias in respect of such matter or person and if any
	dispute arises in this behalf, the Governor shall, On an application
	made by the party aggrieved, obtain in such manner as may be
	prescribed, the opinion of the Chief Justice of the High Court arid
	decide the dispute in conformity with such opinion. (4)		The
	Lokayukta shall not inquire into any complaint if the complaint is
	made after the expiry of five years from the date on which the
	action mentioned in such complaint is alleged to have been taken. 9.
Provisions
relating to complaints.-(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, a complaint stating the
allegations may be made under this Act to the Lokayukta by any person
other than a public, servant in his capacity as such: 10.
Procedure in respect of investigations. (1)
Where the Lokayukta decides-to conduct any investigation under this
Act, he,- (a)
shall forward a copy of the complaint or, in the case of any
investigation which he proposes to conduct on his own motion, a
statement setting out the grounds therefor to the public functionary
concerned and the competent authority concerned: tunity
to offer his comments on such complaint or state- 
ment; and	. (c)
may make such orders as to the safe custody of documents relevant to
the investigation, as he deems fit. (2)	Every
such investigation shall be conducted in private and, in 
particular
the identity of the complainant and of the public
functionary 
affected by the investigation shall not be disclosed
to the public or the 
press or published in any manner whether
before, during or after the 
investigation: or (b)	there
are no sufficient grounds for investigating or. as the case may be,
for continuing the investigation: or (c)	other
remedies are. available to the complainant and in the circumstances
of tlie case it would be more proper for the complainant to avail of
such remedies. (5)	In
any case where the Lokayukta decides not to entertain a 
complaint
or to discontinue any investigation in respect of a complaint, 
he
shall record his reasons therefor and communicate the same to
the 
complainant and the public functionary concerned. (6)	The
conduct of an investigation under this Act in respect of any section
shall not affect such action, or any power or duty of any public
functionary to take further action with respect to any matter subject
to the investigation. (7)		Whoever
discloses to the public orto the press
any
information or publishes such information in contravention of the
provisions, of this section shall, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment, for a term which may extend to two years and shall also
be.liable to fine. 11.
Evidence.-(1)
Subject to the provisions of this section, for the purpose 
of
investigation (including the preliminary inquiry, before such
investigation) under .this Act, the Lokayukta may require any public
servant or any other person who in his opinion is able to furnish
information or produce documents relevant to the investigation, to
furnish any such information or produce any such document. For the purpose of any such investigation (including the preliminary
inquiry),
the Lokayukta shall have all the powers of a civil court while trying
a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908) in respect
of the following matters, namely:-- The Lokayukta shall have power to require any person subject, to the-
provisions of sub-section (8) to furnish information .on such points
or matters as, in the opinion of
the
Lokayukta may be useful lor. or relevant to, the subject matter of
the
inquiry and any person so required shall be-deemed to be legally
bound to furnish such informa­tion within the meaning of section
176 and section 177 of the Indian. Penal Code. (4)	The
Lokayukta or any Gazetted officer specially authorised in this behalf
by the Lokayukta may enter any-building or place where he has reason
to believe that any books of account or other documents relating to
the subject matter of the inquiry may be found, and may seize any.
such books of account or documents or take extracts or copies
therefrom, subject to the provisions of section 100 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. 1973 (2 of 1974) in so far as they may be
applicable. (5)	The
Lokayukta shall be deemed to be a Civil Court and when an}' offence
as is described in section 175, section 178, section 179 or section
180 of tlie Indian Penal Code is committed in the view or presence of
the Loka\aikta. the Lokayukta may, after recording the facts
constituting tlie offence and tlie statement of tlie accused as
provided for in tlie Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974),
forward tlie case to a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try tlie
same and the Magistrate to whom any such case is forwarded shall
proceed to hear the complaint against tlie accused as if the case had
been" forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of the
Criminal Procedure. 1973 (2 of 1974). (6)	Any
proceeding before the Lokayukta shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860). (7)	Subject
to the provisions of sub-section (8), no obligation to maintain
secrecy or other restriction upon the disclosure of informa­tion
obtained by or furnished to the State Government or any public
servant, whether imposed by any enactment or by any rule of law,
shall apply to the disclosure
of information for the purpose of any investiga­tion under this
Act and the State Government or any public servant shall not be
entitled in relation to any such investigation'to any such privilege
in respect of the production of documents or the giving of evidence
as is allowedby any enactment or by any rule of law in legal
proceedings. (8)	No
person shall be required or authorised by virtue of this Act. to
furnish any such information or answer any such question or produce
so much of an document.-- (a)	..as
might prejudice the security or defence or international
 

relations
of India (including India's relations with the Government of any
other country or with any international organisation), or the
investigation or detection of crime; or (b)	as
might involve tlie disclosure of proceedings, other than 
the
decision, of the Cabinet or Council of Ministers of the 
State
Government or any committee thereof, if any: ments, materials and other
evidence, to the Chief Minister. On
receipt of the report under sub-section (1),
the
Chief Mini­ster shall cause the same to be placed, without delay,
before the Council of Ministers." 70.	It
can be seen from these provisions that for being appointed as 
Lokayukta, a person has to be minimum a sitting or a retired judge
of the High Court. He is authorized to investigate any complaint
received or forwarded to him and such a complaint is either
investigated or he can at his discretion refuse to investigate the
complaint on account of the same being frivolous or vexatious in
nature. And if complaint is investigated, he is required to present
the report. For
the purpose of conducting such an investigation, it has all the
powers of a Civil Court. By virtue of provision of Section 11(5) of
the Lokayukta Act also, it is deemed to be a Civil Court. The
proceedings before the Lokayukta are deemed to be judicial
proceedings with the meaning of Section 193C and 220 of the Indian
Penal Code. The
reports of Lokayukta have no binding effect, nor do they result into
either conviction or achieving any finality in terms of adjudication.
These reports can, of course, be made basis to initiate prosecution
against public functionaries concerned. Considering
this scheme of the Act the tests which have been set out in various
judgments are to be examined before it can be concluded whether the
function of Lokayukta is that of the Court or not. It is required to
be emphasized at this juncture that the report of Lokayukta does not
culminate into punishing any erring person per se, but it creates
strong opinion of people in judging the elected representative and
the public functionaries. Importance of such reports would be dealt
with separately hereinafter, but, for the purpose of deciding whether
the office can be said to be the Court or whether the same has
trappings of the Court, the answer shall have to be also found from
binding judgments. 71.	During
the course of hearing submission was made to equate office of the
Lokayukta with the High Court and also to place the same on higher
level than that of the High Court considering people's aspiration,
however, such a submission cannot be accepted to hold this office as
Court at present. There is a wide gap between 'what should be' and
'ought to be' and 'what is'. The point in issue on hand shall need to
be determined on the basis of the provisions which are at present
existing. Courts are expected to be alive to the changing social
needs, for present it has to act on the tangible material available
and the statute as that stood on 25.8.2011. 72.	There
are very well laid down tests and criteria for determining whether
any authority/institution/office is a Court or whether it has
trappings of Court. The
Supreme Court in different cases carved out following litmus tests as
guide on this question. It is pertinent to reproduce relevant
portions of those judgments at this stage. In
the case of Dr. Baliram Waman Hiray vs. Justice Lentin and
others reported in (1988)4 SCC 419,
Courts and quasi-judicial
 bodies having trappings of Court are expressly discussed thus:- It is a familiar feature
of modern legislation to set up bodies and tribunals, and entrust
them with work of a judicial, quasi-judicial or administrative
character, but they are not Courts in the accepted sense of that
term, though they may possess, as observed by' Lord Sankey, L.C. in
Shell Co. of Australia's case, some of the trappings of a Court.
Venkatarama Ayyar, J. in Virindar Kumar Satyawadi has referred to
several decisions of the Courts in England and Australia as to what
are the essential characteristics of a Court as distinguished from
tribunals exercising quasi-judicial functions." In
the case of State of Maharashtra vs. Labour Law Practitioners'
Association and others reported in (1998) 2 SCC 688
'Courts' and 'judicial service' are discussed elaborately:- was held to cover all tribunals which were basically Courts
performing judicial functions giving judgments which were binding and
exercising sovereign judicial power transferred to them by the State.
It was held that High Court could exercise its jurisdiction under Article 227 over such tribunals. A Full Bench of the Gujarat High
Court in the case of Shaikh Mohammedbhikhan Hussainbhai v. The
Manager, Chandrabhanu Cinema , 1986 Lab IC 1749 : (AIR 1986 Gujarat 209) held that Labour Courts and Industrial Courts were Courts for
the purposes of Contempt of Courts Act and were also Courts
subordinate to the High Court. 17. The Allahabad High
Court in the case of M/s. Poysha Industrial Company Ltd., Ghaziabad
v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 1985 Lab IC 1683 has, however, held that
the presiding officer of a Labour Court does not belong to the
judicial service of the State as defined in Article 236. The
Allahabad High Court's judgment has relied upon the decision of this
Court in Chandra Mohan 's case ( AIR 1966 SC 1987) (supra) for the
purpose of holding that it is only the hierarchy of ordinary civil
Courts in the narrow sense headed by a District Judge which comes
under the term "judicial service" under Article 236. The
view taken by the Allahabad High Court appears to be too narrow a
view of the term "judicial service". In Chandra Mohan's
case (supra), this Court was primarily concerned with excluding from
judicial service persons who held posts in services which were not
exclusively judicial. When the service is exclusively judicial, there
is no reason to exclude such judicial service from that term under Article 236. The High Court in the present case is justified in
rejecting the narrow view taken in that judgment. 18. In the case of Shri
Kumar Padma Prasad v. Union of India , (1992) 2 SCC 428 : (1992 AIR
SCW 1993), this Court had to consider qualifications for the purpose
of appointment as a Judge of the High Court under Article 217 of the
Constitution. While interpreting the expression "judicial
office" under Article 217(2)(a) , this Court held that the
expression "judicial office" must be interpreted in
consonance with the scheme of Chapters V and VI of Part VI of the
Constitution. So construed it means a judicial office which belongs
to the judicial service as defined under Article 236(b). Therefore,
in order to qualify for appointment as a Judge of a High Court, a
person must hold a judicial office which must be a part of the
judicial service of the State. After referring to the cases of Chandra Mohan (AIR 1966 SC 1987) (supra) and Statesman (Private) Ltd.
(AIR 1968 SC 1495) (supra), this Court said that the term "judicial
office" in its generic sense may include a wide variety of
offices which are connected with the administration of justice in one
way or the other. Officers holding various posts under the executive
are often vested with magisterial power to meet a particular
situation. The Court said, "Did the framers of the Constitution
have this type of offices in mind when they provided a source of
appointment to the high office of a judge of the High Court from
amongst the holders of a "judicial office"? The answer has
to be in the negative. We are of the view that holder of judicial
office under Article 217(2)(a) means the person who exercise only
judicial functions, determines causes inter parties and renders
decisions in a judicial capacity. He must belong to the judicial
service which as a class is free from executive control and is
disciplined to uphold the dignity, integrity and independence of the
judiciary." Going by these tests laid down as to what
constitutes judicial service under Article 236 of the Constitution,
the Labour Court judges and the Judges of the Industrial Court can be
held to belong to judicial service. The hierarchy contemplated in the
case of Labour Court judges is the hierarchy of Labour Court judges
and Industrial Court Judges with the Industrial Court Judges holding
the superior position of District Judges. The Labour Courts have also
been held as subject to the High Court's power of superintendence
under Article 227." In
the case of K. Shamrao and others vs. Assistant Charity
Commissioner reported in (1998) 2 SCC 688 in
the following paragraphs test of the Court is reiterated:- Apex
Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Madras Bar Association reported in (2010 ) 11 SCC 1, also dealt with this
issue:- refers to places where justice is administered or refers to Judges
who exercise judicial functions. Courts are established by the State
for administration of justice that is for exercise of the judicial
power of the State to maintain and uphold the rights, to punish
wrongs and to adjudicate upon disputes. Tribunals on the other hand
are special alternative institutional mechanisms, usually brought
into existence by or under a statute to decide disputes arising with
reference to that particular statute, or to determine controversies
arising out of any administrative law. Courts refer to civil courts,
criminal courts and the High Courts. In
the case of S.D. Joshi vs. High Court of Bombay reported
in (2011) 1 SCC 252
discretion of Court and that of the Tribunal is reiterated
extensively:- and dealt with the question as to whether the Central Government,
while hearing this appeal, was a tribunal and held as under : (AIR
pp. 1680-81, paras 32-33 & 36). has two meanings. It may refer to the discharge of duties exercisable
by a judge or by justices in court, or to administrative duties which
need not be performed in court, but in respect of which it is
necessary to bring to bear a judical mind- that is, a mind to
determine what is fair and just in respect of the matters under
consideration.'
 

	That an officer is
required to decide matters before him 'judicially' in the second
sense does not make him a court or even a tribunal, because that only
establishes that he is following a standard of conduct, and is free
from bias or interest. *			*			* 36.	Now, in its functions
the Government often reaches decisions, but all decisions of the
Government cannot be regarded as those of a tribunal. Resolutions of
the Government may affect rights of parties and yet, they may not be
in the exercise of judicial power. Resolutions of the Government may
be amenable to writs under Articles 32 and 226 in appropriate cases,
but may not be subject to a direct appeal under Article 136 as the
decisions of a tribunal. The position however changes when Government
embarks upon curial functions and proceeds to exercise judicial power
and decide disputes. In those circumstances, it is legitimate to
regard the office who deals with the matter and even the Government
itself as a tribunal. The officer who decides, may even be anonymous;
but the decision is one of a tribunal, whether expressed in his name
or in the name of the Central Government. The word 'tribunal' is a
word of wide import, and the words 'court' and 'tribunal' embrace
within them the exercise of judicial power in all its forms. The
decision of the Government thus falls within the powers of this Court
under Article 136." 73.	In
light of the examination of provisions of the Lokayukta Act as also
the materials on record and the principles established by the Apex
Court, time and again,it would not be possible to state and hold that
the office of the Lokayukta is either a Court or has trappings of
Court. It has no power to give a definitive judgment attaching
finality and authoritativeness nor does it possess trappings of Court
conferring any power to perform judicial functions. The office of
Lokayukta is an august office envisaging strong and independent
person who acts 'judicially' , having powers of deemed civil courts
for certain provisions of the Indian Penal code as envisaged under Section 11 of the Lokayukta Act and yet, considering the discussion
above, it can neither be given the status of Court, let alone of the
highest Court nor can the concept of trappings of Court be imparted
for evaluating its functions. 3rd
Issue: Convention 74.	On
having held that this office of Lokayukta is neither Court nor having
trappings of Court, question that arises is as to how the
consultation process will have to begin and from where the proposal
for appointment needs to be emanated from. The
third point in issue therefore is as to whether there is any role of
conventions in absence of rules or clear guidelines to regulate
exercise of discretion and to solve the problem of filling the gap. 75.	It
was argued by the learned Advocate General that so far in the
appointment of the Lokayukta, from the time the statute has come
into being in the year 1986 conventionally the proposal, on all
occasions, had emanated from the office of the Chief Minister, where
either the recommendation was made with a request to opine on the
name of the recommandee or the names were called for from the Chief
Justice of the State. But at no point of time, it was the office of
the Governor which had called for any name for such an appointment. It
was also pointed out that in this case also, in the year 2005, when
the name of Mr. Justice K.R.Vyas was considered, it had emanated from
the office of the Chief Minster and the proposal was sent to the
Chief Justice who had opined in favour of his appointment. What had
been followed on earlier three occasions, also had continued in case
of Mr. Justice K.R. Vyas and this convention is also followed,
according to him, in other states where such appointments are being
made for the post of Lokayukta. This request was also found in a
letter dated 10.9.2009 addressed to the Government by the Governor
for sending a fresh proposal, he further argued. It
was fervently urged that a complete departure was made by the
Governor by calling for the names twice directly from the Hon'ble the
Chief Justice. Not only this was done giving a go by to the earlier
conventions, but, the same was not an authorized action as urged by
the Advocate General. It is further urged that this was not an
appointment of a Presiding Officer of the Court nor of a Judicial
Office,therefore, application of ratio laid down in case of Ashish
Handa, Advocate vs. High Court of Punjab & Haryana and others (supra) and that of N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and others (supra) cannot be made applicable in the instant case. While harping
on convention reliance is placed on the following judgments mentioned
hereinunder:- What Dicey described under these terms are the rules of responsible
Government which regulate relations between the Crown, the Prime
Minister, the Cabinet and the two Houses of Parliament. These rules
developed in Great Britain by way of precedents during 19th Century
and were inherited by the British colonies as were granted
self-government and independence. This phenomenon is not limited to
Britain and is true of constitutions in general. Conventions are
found in all established constitutions and soon developed even in the
newest. 353. Two sets of
principles, thus, make up the rules of constitutional law. One, set
of rules is contained in the written constitution of a country and
the other set is referred to as the "conventions of the
constitution". Conventions are a means of bringing about
constitutional development without formal changes in the law. K.C.
Wheare in his book "The Statute of Westminster and Dominion
Status" (Fourth Edition) defines the conventions as under: 354. The conventions grow
up, around and upon principles of the written constitutions.
Necessary conventional rules spring up to regulate the working of the
various parts of the Constitution, their relation to one an other and
to the subject. Sir W. Ivor Jennings. in his book Law and the
Constitution" (Fifth edition) refers to the constitutional
conventions in the following words:- These rules Mill referred
to as "the unwritten maxims of the constitution". Twenty
years later Dicey called them "the conventions of the
constitution", while Anson referred to them as "the custom
of the constitution". The short explanation of the
constitutional conventions is that they provide the flesh which
clothes the dry bones of the law; they make the legal constitution
work; they keep it in touch with the growth of ideas. A constitution
does not work itself; it has to be worked by men. It is an instrument
of national co-operation, and the spirit of co-operation is as
necessary as the instrument. The constitutional conventions are the
rules elaborated for effecting that co-operation. Also, the effects
of a constitution must change with the changing circumstances of
national life. New needs demand a new emphasis and a new orientation
even when the law remains fixed. Men have to work the old law in
order to satisfy the new needs. Constitutional conventions are the
rules which they elaborate." 355. The conventions
enable a rigid legal framework - laws tend to be rigid-to be kept up
with changing social needs and changing political ideas. The
conventions enable the men, who govern, to work the machines. Dicey
in his book "Introduction to the Study of the Law of the
Constitution" refers to the conventions in the following words: The written constitutions
cannot provide for every eventuality. Constitutional institutions are
often created by the provisions which are generally worded. Such
provisions are interpreted with the help of conventions which grow by
the passage of time. Conventions are vital in so far as they fill-up
the gaps in the Constitution itself, help solve problems of
interpretation, and allow for the future development of the
constitutional frame work. Whatever the nature of the Constitution, a
great deal may be left unsaid in legal rules allowing enormous
discretion to the constitutional functionaries. Conventions regulate
the exercise of that discretion. A power which, juridically, is
conferred upon a person or body of persons may be transferred,
guided, or canalised by the operation of the conventional rule. K.C.
Wheare in his book 'Modern Constitution' (1967 edition) elaborates
such a rule as under: 356. The primary role of
conventions is to regulate the exercise of discretion - presumably to
guard against the irresponsible abuse of powers. Colin R. Munro in
his book "Studies in Constitutional Law" (1987 edition) has
summed up the field of operation of the conventions in the following
words: Further
relevance is also emphasized in paragraphs 411 and 478 of this
judgment, however,so as not to additionally burden this text, only
reference is given. 76.	Per
contra, it has been argued by other side that whatever may be the
past practices or convention, in the wake of the judgments of the
Apex Court given case of N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose and
others (supra) and in the case of Ashish Handa,
Advocate vs. High Court of Punjab & Haryana and others (supra)
that would have no significane. Moreover, as held in case of Justice
K.P.Mohapatra vs. Sri Ram Chandra Nayak and others (supra),
the law of the land would prevail and the convention would have no
relevance as there are explicit guidelines available from the Courts.
It was further contended that considering the importance of the post
and the nature of the functions to be exercised by the Lokayukta, it
is essential for the Chief Justice to recommend a name for such a
post. 77.	Before
delving further into the subject, it is required to be specified, at
this stage, that in both the case laws of Ashish
Handa (supra)
and that of N.
Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose (supra),
the Apex Court was considering the appointment of judicial officer,
whereas this Court is confronted with the question of appointment of
Lokayukta. As has been held hereinabove that the office of
Lokayukta is neither Court nor has the trappings of the Court and,
therefore, it could be said that ratio of both these judgments, 
would not be made applicable for such an appointment mutatis
mutandis. Reference
is also needed incidentally at this stage to the case of Ajit
Kumar etc. vs. State of Jharkhand and Ors. etc.(supra) where ratio laid down in case of Ashish Handa (supra) was pressed into
service. High Court of Jharkhand dealt with the same thus:- However,
one shall have to essentially keep in mind the pronouncement of the
Apex Court in the case of Justice K.P.Mohapatra vs. Sri Ram
Chandra Nayak and others (supra), where the question of
appointment of Lokayukta was at large before the Apex Court. This
decision clarifies and emphasizes the role of the Chief Justice in
making an appointment of the Lokayukta. For the appointment of
Lokayukta under the Orissa Lokpal and Lokayukta Act, 1995 , the Chief
Minister of Orissa sent three names to the Chief Justice of Orissa
High Court and the Leader of Opposition and requested them to convey
their considered view on the subject. The Chief Justice had
recommended, for the appointment name of Justice Mohapatra whereas
the Leader of Opposition wished that the person to be appointed
should be a judicial personality with high integrity and professional
maturity and, therefore, another name was suggested by him. When
the notification had been issued appointing Justice Mohapatra as
Lokpal, this was challenged by way of public interest litigation. The
Court noted the fact that the Leader of Opposition had not stated
anything against the Lokpal designate and the Chief Justice had
during the consultation, named this person as the person for being
appointed as Lokpal. In this background, the findings of the Apex
Court would be relevant., which state thus: 78.	It
 thus clearly states that for such appointment, the Chief Justice of
the High Court would be the best person for proposing and suggesting
such person for being appointed as Lokpal. It also further states
that opinion of the Chief Justice since would be totally
independent and he would be in a position to find out who is the most
suitable for such post and considering not only the importance but
the nature of duties of Lokpal, the primacy requires to be given to
the opinion of the Chief Justice of the High Court, in this context. 79.	This
detail was necessitated on account of two aspects, firstly the
proposal in the case of Justice Mohapatra had emanated from the
office of the Chief Minister and the names of three judges were sent
for consideration to both the Chief Justice and the Leader of
Opposition. While holding that the Chief Justice is the best person
whose views need to be given primacy in the appointment of the
Lokayukta, the proposal in that case which had emanated from the
office of the Chief Minister was sustained. Secondly, the Court also
needs to record the fact that in this judgment the Court had in
terms said that the Chief Justice would be the best person for
proposing and suggesting such person for being appointed as Lokpal
and, therefore, it has explicitly though not eliminated the 
possibility of proposal emanating from the office of the Chief
Minister, the indications are loud and clear as could be appreciated 
while considering the role of the Lokayukta under the Gujarat
Lokayukta Act . 80.	In
light of the discussion held hereinabove, it can be said that
though there have been conventions in the past, and as also discussed
by the Apex Court conventions have importance to regulate the
discretionary power and to fill in the gaps where powers are not
specifically worded. In this case conventionally, the proposals with
the names of the retired persons emanated from the office of the
Chief Minister and these proposals were considered and were acted
upon for, appointment to this post of Lokayukta, the recommendation
and proposal by the Chief Justice for this post would be necessary in
wake of decision of the Supreme Court in Justice Mahapatra 's case
(supra) as also the some being need of an hour considering the
scheme of the Act, importance of this post and its growing
requirement in the country. It
is necessary to make a mention here that twice the process was
initiated from the office of the Governor calling for one name
instead of the panel, while insisting to excise her personal
discretion in this appointment. Surprisingly, there was no objection
raised on either of the times. That issue at present, is not to be
gone into in light of anwer given to the 1st issue in this
judgment, but that shall be touched only while deciding whether H.E.
the Governor was empowered to issue the warrant on the basis of
expediency. 4 th 
Issue : Consultation in appointment of Lokayukta 81.	This
brings to the next vital question as to what is consultation, nature
of consultation and its extent desirable in such appointment and
whether, in the instant case, consultation was in fact held and
whether the same had been over or not when the act of issuance of the
warrant was made on 25.8.2011. 82.	At
this stage, firstly, it is essential to quote from the judgment of Justice K.P.Mohapatra vs. Sri Ram Chandra Nayak and others (surpa), where the Apex Court relying upon the judgment of The
Indian Administrative Service vs. Union of India reported in
1993 Sup(1) SCC 730 discussed the issue of consultation in the
appointment of Lokayukta in Indian Administrative Service case
(supra), the Court was considering the phrase "after
consultation with the Governments of States concerned" and on
this issue discussed a number of decisions on the word
"consultation". The conclusion that had been arrived at in
that judgment has been reproduced, which reads as under:- The object of the consultation is to render consultation meaningful
to serve the intended purpose. Prior consultation in that behalf is
mandatory. (2) When the offending
action affects fundamental rights or to effectuate built-in
insulation, as fair procedure, consultation is mandatory and
non-consultation renders the action ultra vires or invalid or void. (3) When the opinion or
advice binds the proposer, consultation is mandatory and its
infraction renders the action or order illegal. (4) When the opinion or
advice or view does not bind the person or authority, any action or
decision taken contrary to the advice is not illegal, nor becomes
void. (5) When the object of
the consultation is only to apprise of the proposed action and when
the opinion or advice is not binding on the authorities or person and
is not bound to be accepted, the prior consultation is only
directory. The authority proposing to take action should make known
the general scheme or outlines of the actions proposed to be taken be
put to notice of the authority or the persons to be consulted; have
the views or objections, take them into consideration, and
thereafter, the authority or person would be entitled or has/have
authority to pass appropriate orders or take decision thereon. In
such circumstances it amounts to an action 'after consultation'. (6) No hard and fast
rule could be laid, no useful purpose would be 	served by
	formulating words or definitions nor would it be 	appropriate to lay
down the 	manner in which consultation 	must take place. It is for
the Court to determine in 	each case in 	the light of its facts and
circumstances whether the action is 'after 	consultation'; 'was in
fact consulted' or was it a 'sufficient 	consultation'." 83.	The
Apex Court in the case of Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record vs.
Union of India reported in AIR 1994 SC 268, of course was
considering the consultation for the appointment of judge in the High
Court where the meaning and manner of consultation, nature of
consultation etc. have been deeply gone into by Hon'ble Mr. Justice
Ratnavel Pandian while giving concurrent view with the majority.
Relevant paragraphs of the judgment are as under:- 115. Marshal, CJ with
reference to judicial activism in interpreting has observed thus: 116. Keeping the above
view, let us examine the relevant constitutional provisions in their
true spirit and without stretching them too far. 117. Clauses (1) and (2)
with its first proviso of Article 124 reads thus: vide Act 22 of 1966. (2) Every Judge of the
Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under
his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the
Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the State as the President
may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he
attains the age of sixty-five years : 118. Article 217(l) 'With
regard to the appointment of Judges to the High Courts reads thus: 119. Under the above
provisions, it is the President who is vested with the authority of
appointment by warrant and under his hand and seal "after
consultation" with specified constitutional functionaries. The
consultees whom the President may in his discretion consult in case
of appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court are.,
 

(1) Such of the Judges of
the Supreme Court and
 

(2) Such of the Judges of
the High Courts in the States
 

as the President may deem
necessary for this purpose. But the proviso to clause (2) of Article
124 makes it obligatory on the part of the President to consult the
Chief Justice of India in case of an appointment of a Judge other
than the Chief Justice. Thus, Article 124(2) envisages two kinds of
consultation, one being discretionary on the part of the President
and the other being mandatory, In case of appointment of a Judge of
the High court other than the Chief Justice of the constitutional
functionaries are,
 

(1) Chief Justice of
India
 

(2) The Governor of the
State
 

(3) Chief Justice of the
High Court concerned. 120. It is clear that
under Article 217(l) , the process of 'consultation' by the President
is mandatory and this clause does not speak of any discretionary
'consultation' with any other authority as in the case of appointment
of a Judge of the Supreme Court as envisaged in clause (2) of Article 124. The word ,consultation' is powerful and eloquent with
meaning, loaded with undefined intonation and it answers all the
questions and all the various tests including the test of primacy to
the opinion of the CJI. This test poses many, tough questions,
one of them being, what is the meaning of the expression
consultation' in the context in which it is used under the
Constitution. As in the case of appointment of a Judge of the Supreme
Court and the High Court, there are some more constitutional
provisions in which the expression 'consultation' is used. Those
provisions are: 129. Black's Law
Dictionary defines the expression as under: 84.	The
entire discussion, of course, was in the light of the requirement of
consultation envisaged under the Constitution while appointing the
Judge of the High Court. What culls out from the definitions taken
from various dictionaries and the authorities laid down time and
again by the Apex Court on the subject is that the object of
consultation is to render it meaningful for the purpose of serving
intended object when the opinion finds the proposer it is mandatory
to consult. In substance it is the process to arrive at satisfactory
solution. There must be full and effective consultation and the same
has to be purposeful and meaningful. 85.	Undoubtedly,
here is not the question of consultation under the Constitutional
requirements nor is the consultation for the purpose of appointing
Judges or Presiding Officers for the institute which is either Court
or trappings of the Court. However, as the person to be appointed on
this post requires to possess qualities like integrity and
credentials of impeccable nature and utmost commitment and sincerity
towards the cause, consultation process as contemplated under the
statute is with the Chief Justice of the State and Leader of
Opposition. Considering the very nature of appointment and importance
attached to this post, consultation cannot be merely directory in
nature obviously nor can it be a mere ordeal. It would entail
proposal, placing of fullest possible details, deliberations,
discussions, consideration and decision as a culmination. 86.	In
light of the discussion above, endeavour hereinafter would be as to
whether the 'consultation' in the instant case was full and effective
and whether it was meaningful as otherwise envisaged in the case
laws. It
was contended by learned Advocate General that the 'consultation'
process was not yet over. It is not the process of thrusting any
person without meaningful deliberation and he also had elaborated the
factual details to support his contention for which reliance is also
placed on the exchange of communication to substantiate this point.
He also forcefully urged that the process cannot be snapped
unilaterally when the Government is in fact contemplated as a
proposer under the statute. 87.	On
the other side, learned advocate Mr. Mehta and learned advocate Mr.
Patel urged that appointment was after the 'consultation' and the
same was meaningful as was otherwise required before being
concluded. 88.	As
noted, the consultation has a potency of active consideration
culminating into a fruitful result. If there is a consultation over
more than one names, there would arise a necessity to compare and
choose on evaluation the most suitable person for the purpose of
appointment. In case of one name, effective and purposeful
consultation though may not always result into concurrence, but, the
same to be effective, amongst all the three dignitaries who are part
of this process of consultation, before appointment to the post of
Lokayukta is must. Regard
should be to the fact that recommendation in question here had been
made by the Chief Justice and this was in wake of unwillingness
expressed by Mr. Justice S.D. Dave due to his personal reasons. In
the aforementioned premise, when the name of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta
was proposed on 7.6.2011 by the Chief Justice, as rightly pointed by
the learned Advocate General, that process of consultation cannot be
said to have dated back to the year 2006 as this recommendation had
been made only in the month of June, 2011 and every time, a new name
is recommended, the process of consultation necessarily shall have to
begin afresh. This is also not to indicate that the length of
consultation would always have bearing while deciding this issue,
nevertheless as discussed earlier, the regard shall have to be of
purposeful consultation. 89.	
Thus, when the name of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta was recommended by the
Hon'ble the Chief Justice, pursuant to this recommendation dated
7.6.2011, reservation against the name was placed by the Chief
Minister vide his communication dated 16.6.2011 addressed to the
Chief Justice. There were mainly two reservations. Firstly, his
advanced age of 75 years, on comparing the nature of duties and
responsibilities attached to the post of Lokayukta and secondly, his
association with some NGOs and social activist groups and due to this
association, the service rendered by him as a panelist for them. The
request vide this communication dated 16.6.2011 is to have a relook
at the name proposed vide letter dated 7.6.2011. Reiteration again,
of course, is to the name of Mr. Justice J.R. Vora in this
communication as well. After about 6 weeks on 2.8.2011, the reply
of the Hon'ble the Chief Justice is to this communication of
16.6.2011, where the opinion with regard to Mr. Justice R.A.Mehta had
been given in unequivocal terms, wherein it was mentioned that there
was no such activity which would make him ineligible for the
appointment to the post of Lokayukta and he is a man of high repute
and integrity, which he maintained while in service and, thereafter
also. In a concluding paragraph, it was urged to the Chief Minister
in this communication to take up the matter with the Council of
Ministers and then, to forward the name of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta to
Her Excellency for his appointment as Lokayukta of the State of
Gujarat. Communication
of the Chief Minister thereafter on 18.8.2011, again raised concerns
and reservations against this name elaborately, placing the details
in the communication as well as substantiating the said details with
various documents on the basis of which it was urged that though
there are no personal reservations of the writer (of the Chief
Minister) against the name but considering pre-conceived opinion of
Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta, he would not be the most suitable choice and
therefore, on that count as well as again referring to his advanced
age it was urged to recommend the name of the Judge who may have
presently retired from the service. A letter addressed to the
Governor by the chief Minister on 18th August, 2011 itself
also states that due to certain reasons, name lastly recommended was
not acceptable to the State Government. What
emerges thus is that the recommendation made for the said post by the
Chief Justice on 7.6.2011 was not found acceptable by the State
Government. Therefore, the letter dated 16th June,
2011 addressed to the Chief Justice placing therein reservations
against the name. Reply was given to this by the Chief Justice on
2.8.2011 clarifying the facts concerning reservations. It can be
gathered from record further that reservations ventilated in the
earlier communication dated 16.6.2011, were again reiterated, with
further materials attempting to substantiate them. Considering the
nature of consultation, even if reservation had no valid basis,
except reflection of different perception, it would not be possible
to conclude that in the reply of 2.8.2011 final words were spoken.
Second communication from the Government was a clear indication that
the reservations against the name was intense and,this was a request
to review the decision placing additional available materials before
the Chief Justice for his consideration. It would not be feasible to
say that there was no further scope left for any response to the said
urge, more particularly, when this was made to the Chief Justice of
the High Court who had proposed the name. Again, if an urge was
made to suggest an alternative, the same cannot be regarded as an end
of process on the name recommended by Chief Justice. It was clear to
one and all concerned importance of view of the Chief Justice is in
this process, however, for meaningful deliberation, there may not be
preclusion to request such a review, nor would this non acceptance of
the State in the letter conclude statement in the process when
otherwise request to review was not yet attended to finally. One
 also needs to keep in mind that on earlier occasion on 24.2.2010,
when the recommendation was made of four names by the Chief Justice
at the behest of Government, one of the names recommended was of Mr.
Justice J.R. Vora, which was finalized by the Council of Ministers on
completion of consultation process and pursuant to that, his name
had been proposed to the Governor for appointment. In this
background, when twice thereafter, there was recommendation of the
names at the instance of H.E. the Governor, who assumed the role of
an independent appointing authority and name of Mr. Justice J.R.
Vora was recalled . On his being appointed at the Gujarat State
Judicial Academy and therefore, if the request gets reiterated in
this background with documents and without any further reply from the
Chief Justice. Conclusion of process could not be presumed. There
is no express suggestion nor any indication of the closure of the
consultation on record, in the pleadings or otherwise in
communication and, therefore, in the light of the discussion made, on
the details which cull out from these communications, and having
regard to the requirement of consultation as elaborated hereinbefore,
I conclude that the consultation was not yet over and, therefore, the
question corollary to the earlier point as to whether there was a
stalemate in the process of consultation shall have to be answered in
negation. At
the cost of reiteration, it needs to be mentioned that in such a
selection, the primacy is to the opinion of the Chief Justice of the
State but, that would not take away the statutory requirement of the
consultation as understood and laid down by the Apex Court. And, even
in the appointment of Judges where the final say is of the judiciary
process, does not rule out the requirement of purposeful and full
consultation, but in fact, insists on such meaningful process. 5th
Point in issue: Expediency in selection - 'Doctrine of Necessity' 90.	The
last and vital question that necessitates redressal is whether the
Doctrine of Necessity was to be invoked for the appointment of
Lokayukta and whether there existed such weighty reasons which would
allow and permit discretion of the Governor in issuing the impugned
warrant. One
is conscious of the fact that the State does not have Lokayukta from
the year 2003. The object and reasons for enacting the statute are
also eloquent and illuminating. From time immemorial corruption in a
public life has perturbed the society and is a matter of grave
concern for all concerned. The people of this nation have given to
themselves the Constitution with democratic and republican characters
 so that they can grow holistically live with dignity and attain
social, economic and political justice. It is a reality that the
common man suffers inexplicably, he endures patiently and is
aggrieved boundlessly by many inactions and malaises. In a
democratic set-up people's concerns and problems against elected
representative and administration required redressal. 91.	Relevant
at this stage is to be alive to the fact that the Administrative
Reforms Commission was constituted in the year 1966 to redress this
perpetual grievance of citizens where issue of corruption in public
life due to crisis of integrity engaged intense attention. As a
panacea to this concern, the statute ( The Gujarat Lokayukta Act ) has
seen the light of the day. 91.1	The
terms of reference in the notification dated 5.1.1966 issued by the
President of India states that "the Commission will give
consideration to the need for ensuring highest standard of efficiency
and integrity in the public services and for making public
administration a fit instrument for carrying out the social and
economic policies of the Government and achieving social and economic
goals of development as also one which is responsive to the people" If in the prosperity of the people, lies the strength of
the Government, it is in their contentment that lie the security and
stability of the democracy." 91.3	The
Commission took note of " the oft-expressed public outcry
against the prevalence of corruption, the existence of wide-spread
inefficiency the unresponsiveness of administration to popular needs" 91.4	It
also had drawn its conviction from the fact that the then Chief
Justice of India, Shri P.B.Gajendragadkar in his address to the
Indian Institute of Public Administration supported the establishment
of an institution of this type "on the ground that the
confidence of the public is the main asset to a public administration
and that the establishment of such an institution would create a
sense of confidence in the people that their grievances would be
looked into." 91.5	Reference
is made of the Late Prime Minister, Shri Jawaharlal Nehru who while
speaking to the All India Congress Committee said that the system of
Ombudsman fascinated him, "for the Ombudsman had overall
authority to deal with charges even against the Prime Minister and
commanded respect and confidence of all. He felt, however, that in a
big country like India, the introduction of such a system was beset
with difficulties." 91.6
	 Reference is also made of say of Shri M.C. Setalvad, India's first
Attorney-General who referred to the "need for the expeditious
redress of grievances of the people and for rooting out corruption,
if democracy were to survive in India and in this connection
mentioned the institution of the Ombudsman as the one which would go
a long way in providing quick justice. However, he referred
to the need for care in the selection of the person occupying the
position of Ombudsman so that he should be outside Government's
influence and should also command the respect of the general public" 91.8	The
Committee was convinced of need of such an institution for the
country " to supplement to the Parliamentary control,
independent of any political application, outside the normal
administrative hierarchy, and free from formalism, publicity and
delays associated with the government machinery". 91.9	Vastness
of the country and its population also need not deter the Commission
to recommend such an institution. It therefore observed that " 91.10	
On the basis of the study of the institution of Ombudsman and its
relevance in this country, the Committee reported thus:- 91.11	Report of this
committee, culminated in recommending two special institutions for
the redressal of the citizens' grievances. In words of this Committee
"There should be
one authority dealing with complaints against the administrative acts
of Ministers or Secretaries to Government at the Centre and in the
States. There should be another authority in each State and at the
Centre for dealing with complaints against the administrative acts of
Ministers or Secretaries to Government at the Centre and in the
States. There should be another authority in each State and at the
Centre for dealing with complaints against the administrative acts
of other officials. All these authorities should be independent of
the executive as well as the Legislature and the judiciary." 91.12	They
are designated authority dealing with the complaints against the
Ministers and Secretaries to the Government as "Lokpal"
and the authorities at the Centre and the State empowered to deal
with complaints against other officials may be designated as
"Lokayukta". 91.13	The
main features of Lokpal and Lokayukta were specified in the report as
under:- 91.14	For
the appointment of Lokpal suggestion is made that the Lokpal should
be appointed by President on the advice of the Prime Minister, which
would be tendered by him after consultation with the Chief Justice of
India and the Leader of Opposition. His tenure, jurisdiction and
procedure for dealing with the complaints, powers for carrying out
functions, all had been detailed in the said report. In concluded
with the following note:- The
Gujarat Lokayukta Act 92.	It
is pertinent that the recommendations made in the interim report of
Administrative Reform Commission have been made the basis for
establishing this institution in various parts of the Nation. 
Gujarat Lokapal and Lokayukta Bill, 1975, in its Statement of objects
and reasons makes this report its base:- submitted in 1966, the Administrative Reforms Commission
recommended, interalia the setting up of an institution of Lokpal to
inquire into the complaints of corruption in administration. To give
effect to this recommendation of the Administrative Reforms
Commission, the State Government had published the Gujarat Lokpal
Bill, 1975 (Guj.Bill 7 of 1975). That Bill was referred to the
Government of India for administrative approval. The Government of
India had made certain suggestions in respect of that Bill. The said
Bill, however, lapsed on account of the dissolution of the Gujarat
Legislative Assembly. The present Bill is on the same lines as the
earlier one and some of the suggestions made by the Government of
India have been incorporated therein. The main object of this Bill is
to provide for appointment of Lokayukta to inquire into the
complaints in respect of actions taken by all public functionaries
viz." 93.	People
of this country have given to themselves the Constitution and all the
institutions established under the Constitution or by virtue of the
statutes flowing from this fountainhead, are meant to subserve their
needs and aspirations. Essential attributes of our Democracy are
embodied in the preamble aiming at liberty, equality, justice,
dignity, fraternity and unity . Transparency and efficiency of
administration and responsiveness of elected representative members
are some of those fundamental urges interwoven with concept of
justice which get echoed in the provision of this statute. 94.	In
this background, the Gujarat Lokayukta Act, 1986 and particularly
some of the provisions of the Act already referred to earlier in this
decision when closely examined, they unfailingly reveal that the
Act is a vital enactment for creating confidence of people by
redressing their cause to be undertaken by the Lokayukta on
investigating allegations against public functionaries as also for
safeguarding the dignity and prestige of public functionaries against
false and frivolous allegations. 94.1	As
the person to be appointed on the said post has to be a sitting Judge
of the High Court or a retired Judge of the High Court having no
affiliation with any political parties nor having any interest
anywhere, a report prepared by him wold have a vital bearing. He has
tenure of five years unless removed on inquiry by the Chief Justice.
Again, this report is required to be placed before the Council of
Ministers. For the purpose of investigation, he has wide powers and
for not entertaining frivolous complaints, the powers are also given
to punish such persons also. He also enjoys immunity from removal
as indicated and his salary is that of the Chief Justice of the
State. All these aspects would assume relevance, particularly while 
considering filling of vacancy in time and filling the same in
consonance with the object of the Act. 95.	No
Court can endorse to the non-appointment or delayed appointment of
Lokayukta in the State which is otherwise booming with economic
growth. It is peoples' Court. It is a hope of the common man, who
could ventilate his grievances against the corruption of public
functionaries. It would avail him an opportunity to be part of the
cleansing spree in the public domain without being bogged down by the
alien language, inconvenient procedurality and unaffordable cost in
such an endeavour. The fact is also recognized while dealing with
delay that with the lapse of time, memory of people may fade and
issues which are otherwise very crucial for people may take a back
seat and fervor over vital issues may die down, thereby, tilting the
balance in favour of those erring whose conduct and actions are to be
investigated by the Lokayukta, particularly considering Section 8(4) of the said Act, which excludes investigation of complaints made
after the expiry of 5 years from the date of occurrence. 96.	Considering
thus, the nature of the post as also keeping in mind avowed objects
of the Act and also aspirations of the people, plea of doctrine of
necessity shall have to be examined and while so doing, it is
required to be addressed in light of the first point in issue which
is answered in affirmation and where it is held in terms that the
Governor does not have power to act independently in appointing the
Lokayukta under Section 3 of the Gujarat Lokayukta Act when read with Articles 163 and 166 of the Constitution of India unless the areas
carved out by the Constitution or by the judgments of the Apex Court
so permit her and unless the grounds put-forth fall under any of
these exceptions, the issuance of warrant cannot be sustained. 97.	Undisputedly,
the post remained continuously vacant for the period of 8 years as
could also be made out from the materials placed before this Court.
From the year 2003 to 2006, there does not appear to be any move from
the Government for the appointment of Lokayukta. As also indicated by
my brother Judge, for this non-action for all the three years, there
is no material made available to the Court. This none action is of
course not conforming to the object of the Act. 98.	The
chronological events which have been mentioned at the outset, are
indicative that for the period between 7.8.2006 to 10.9.2009, no
appointment was made though the name of Mr.Justice K.R.Vyas was
considered, consulted and consensus was reached on that name. It
needs to be regarded here that the proposal had emanated from the
office of the Chief Minister in August, 2006 and the same was cleared
at the end of the Chief Justice on 7.8.2006. Thereafter, the request
of appointment by Government continued to lie in the office of the
Governor. On 29.12.2009 a letter was addressed to the Registrar
General by the Principal Secretary to the Governor making a request
for sending a panel for consideration as the name of Mr.Justice K.R.
Vyas was dropped on account of his appointment as the Chairman of the
State Human Rights Commissions of Maharashtra. 99.	
In the second period between 8.2.2010 to 5.5.2010, the proposal was
sent of four names on 24.2.2010 and out of these four names of
retired Judges of the High Court, Mr. Justice B.C. Patel was already
with the National Human Rights Commission and Mr. Justice
R.P.Dholakia was already working as President, Gujarat State
Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and on account of the
advanced age of Mr. Justice P.M. Chauhan ( 82 years) his name was not
considered for the post. Thus, ouf of four names proposed by the 
Chief Justice , for all practical purpose only one name had remained
for consideration and as mentioned earlier in the letter chronology
was not indicative of any preference of the Chief Justice. Although
the request was made after the consultation was over for appointing
Mr. Justice J.R. Vora, the Governor instead chose to call for the
opinion of the Attorney General and also requested for the
comparative opinion of the Chief Justice and on getting the same
requested directly to the Hon'ble the Chief Justice to send one name
instead of panel. 100.	Such
proposal was received on 31.12.2010 when name of Mr. Justice S.D.
Dave was recommended. After his withdrawal from the said
consideration on 1.5.2011, fresh name was once again recommended on
7.6.2011. This dissection is not for any other purpose but to
scrutinize and consider whether the period of delay could be made a
ground for circumventing the well laid down procedure and the mandate
of the Constitution. 101.	It
needs to be noted and reiterated that though twice after 2006, the
process had been completed, no appointment was made on one or the
other grounds and instead twice Governor initiated independently
steps for appointment and none of them had either constitutional
backing or any statutory force and therefore, the authority which
otherwise preferred to choose its own pace in appointing the
Lokayukta seems to use that very aspect of delay while changing the
mode to fast track. This selective expediency is required to be
spelt out, particularly, when the same has been linked with the
doctrine of necessity. 102.	Again,
if the authority was with the the Governor to appoint independently
and also have consultation with the Chief Justice and the Leader of
Opposition, as has been indicated in the letter dated 3.5.2010, no
delay in that case could be attributed to the Council of Ministers
for non-appointment nor could it be said that the Council of
Ministers could not be Judges in their own cause nor was there any
need for any communication with the Government in this connection. However,
as discussed hereinbefore, that is not the interpretation
permissible. Council of Ministers does have a role in such an
appointment and that is the reason why while mentioning the period
between 2003 to 2005, specific mention is made that there was
absolutely no move nor any action emerging for the appointment on
such a vital post. Again, as indicated in the judgment of the Apex
Court, if Council of Ministers had no role to play, that parameter
would equally apply to the Leader of Opposition, who is also a public
functionary.	 Either going by convention or the long drawn
consultative process in the post, it nowhere is indicative of any
doubt in the minds of any of dignitaries that this appointment
required consultation with the Council of Ministers and in the
penultimate stage, Governor was to issue warrant as per advise and an
aid of Council of Ministers and legislature also has contemplated
that. 103.	This
issue of delayed appointment also requires to take into account
other two grounds, emphasized for issuance of warrant without the
advice of Council of Ministers, namely, promulgation of ordinance and
appointment made under the Commissions of Inquiry Act . Recommendation
of Promulgation of Ordinance : 104.	Emphasis
during submissions was that attempt was made by the Government in the
preceding week of issuance of warrant to change the very nature of
the Act as also adding the number of persons in the team of Lokayukta
and also changing the constitutional committee for appointing
Lokayukta, particularly, when the process of consultation was at a
very active stage which necessitated this appointment. Mention is
needed here that the addition to the list of the public functionaries
in Section 2 (7) after sub-clause(d) had been made on 30.3.2011 and
this was done in wake of requirement of 13th Finance
Commission. The
note from H.E. the Governor dated 27.5.2011 is indicative that more
number of Lokayuktas were required to be appointed considering the
total number of village panchayats, Taluka Panchayats, District
Panchayats, Municipalities and Municipal Corporations in the State 
as also in the wake of addition to the list of elected
representatives of the Local Bodies under the said Act. Therefore,
in the ordinance sent for the promulgation on 16.8.2011, addition
was proposed where the Lokayukta is made Chairperson with other
members to be appointed under Section 3 of the Act. This was added
pursuant to the note of the Governor that one Lokayukta may not cope
up with the complaints with the addition of more public functionaries
and, therefore, this cannot be surely indicative of any curtailment
of the power of one person, who was to be appointed as Lokayukta.
However, the real objection is against the amendment proposed in Section 3 of Lokayukta Act where appointment was required to be made
after obtaining the recommendation of a Committee. As contended by the learned Advocate General this amendment was on
the lines of Lokpal Bill, which was to be placed before the
Parliament where also similar such changes in the formation of
committee have been contemplated. A note of objection of the Governor
is indicative that the Lokpal Bill introduced in the Parliament is 
at a discussion stage, the format of Selection Committee is likely 
to undergo the change and, therefore, the changes proposed in Lok Pal
bill at the Center should not weigh with the State Government and it
should wait till the proposed Bill is passed and endorsed by the
President of India. Of course, in the newly suggested Committee, as
per the amendment of Section 3 , there is no role given to the Chief
Justice directly in the appointment, but there is an addition of
one Judge of the High Court whose name the Chief Justice would
suggest since the Recommendatory Committee is made of 5 members. This
change was contemplated when there was already an active
consideration of the name of Mr. Justice R.A. Mehta and after the
request was made to the Chief Justice by the Chief Minister as head
of the Council of the Ministers to review his decision on
18.8.2011. Thus, the amendment suggested were more or less on the pattern of
the Lokpal Bill at the center which raised grave concern for the
Governor. In my opinion, none of the changes proposed in the Act
would attract Doctrine of Necessity as addition of member was in
compliance with the note of the Governor and formation of Committee
was on the pattern of Lokpal Bill proposed at the center. If further
delay in appointment of Lokayukta was the concern, there is no time
limit which would bind the Governor for promulgating the ordinance.
Although sending of ordinance back within two days to the Governor
is highlighted, keeping in view the fact that there is no
constitutional mandate requiring the Governor to promulgate such an
ordinance within any time frame and being aware of that it was also
sent back to the Government giving reason of no urgency, the ground
made out for issuance of the warrant on account of such a move cannot
fall under any of the exceptions, much less the exception contended
of either the doctrine of necessity or the peril to the democratic
set-up. Appointment
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act :- The
primary object of the appointing a Commission as spelt out by the
Supreme Court in the case of State of J & K vs. Bakshi
Gulam Mohammad reported in 1967 AIR 122, is as
under:- The
nature and scope of inquiry contemplated under the Commissions of
Inquiry Act , is to investigate the facts , record the findings and
submit the report to the Government. The
Commission has no power of adjudication. The report of the Commission
is purely recommendatory and cannot be enforced proprio vigore. 
Though they are not binding in nature, if any such matter is before a
judicial side, the Court needs to arrive at its own conclusions after
assessment of evidence. As
per the scheme of Lokayukta Act , those matters which are referred for
inquiry under the Commissions of Inquiry Act cannot be investigated
by the Lokayukta but,nothing can prevent the State Government under Section 7(2) of the Lokayukta Act from referring the matter to such
commission if the matter is of definite public importance ,even when
Lokayukta is functioning and even when no recommendation or
concurrance is given by him for such reference.The fact also needs to
be regarded that the appointment under the Commissions of Inquiry Act is of a former Judge of the Supreme Court and the very office is
indicative of having utmost integrity and high reputation and,
therefore, that ground is simply not available to circumvent
constitutional mandate by invoking doctrine of necessity. It
would be necessary to state here that though case of M.P. State
Special Police Case (Supra) is much harped upon, facts in that case are completely different and can have no application in the present
case by any stretch. In that case, after the report of Lokayukta
indicting Ministers, when question came up for the sanction to
prosecute such Ministers, Council of Ministers denied despite
overwhelming evidence and Governor assented the same. Apex Court in
this background approved the action of Governor. It raised caution
and clarified that the Governor would not assume appellate powers
over the decision of the Council of Ministers ordinarily and carved
out the following areas of
exceptions for the Governor to act on its own discretion without aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers : apparent Bias revealing from facts 3.	Council
of Ministers acting on the basis of Irrelevant and extraneous 
consideration. 4.	Council
of Ministers disables itself or disentitles itself 5.	Propriety
 demands independent action of the Governor 6.	Democracy
at peril-complete breakdown of the rule of law
 

 	
 

Other
authorities pressed into service by the learned counsel Mr. Patel, 
discussed earlier, largely speak of those areas where permission for
prosecution was not granted by the Council of Ministers either to
prosecute the Chief Minister or any other Minister and, thus, such
obvious acts of not sustaining the very faith of the Constitution, 
by shielding serious acts of corruption, were construed as perilous
to the democracy. None of these authorities can have any
applicability in the present set of facts. Ratio
of the Apex Court in case of Rajendra Singh Verma (Dead) through LRS
V/s. I.T.Governor of N.C.T of Delhi and others reported in 2011 (10)
SCALE P.315 & Election Commissions of India and another V/s.
Dr.Subramanian Swamy and another reported in 1996 (4) SCC 104 will
not come to the rescue for invoking Doctrine of Necessity or
otherwise for substantiating this act of appointment. In
case of Rejendra Sing Verma (Supra) it is held that ordinarily
Governor is to act on aid and advice of the Government, but, when
High Court recommended compulsory retirement of Judicial Officer,
Governor has to act on such an advice of the High Court as 
Constitutionally, High Court is authorized to supervise District
Judiciary and initiate disciplinary actions. As those powers of
disciplinary control are clearly spelt out under the Constitution, in
such circumstances, Governor's action acting without the aid of
Council of Ministers was sustained, specifying objective of Article
235 of the Constitution. In
the instant case the Constitutional mandate is otherwise. Rules of
business do not authorize Governor to so act . And, even when primacy
is to the opinion of the Chief Justice as held earlier, neither the
consultation process was over nor were there any specific
directions for taking such a step and statute also does not indicate
any departure. This authority cannot help the cause of issuance of
warrant . In
case of Election Commissions of India and another V/s. Dr.Subramaniam
Swamy (Supra). The Apex Court clearly indicated as to when Doctrine
of Necessity can be invoked. In
this case, Article 324 of the Constitution necessitated participation
of the Chief Election Commissioner and yet Court opined that if there
was unanimity of other two Election Commissioner in a meeting ,
Chief Election Commissioner should recuse himself from participation,
whose biased attitude was evident on record. In the case on hand,
there were many avenues open which were not resorted to by the
Governor. Nor was this an unavoidable situation warranting
invocation of this doctrine of necessity . 106.	Even
when it is said that under the provisions of Lokayukta Act - like Sections 4 and 6 , there are attributes for complete independence as
also for protecting independence, even when this office is regarded
as larger part of justice dispensation system, it cannot be said that
the very nature of post indicated inherent bias or apparent bias and
Governor only could act nor would it be feasible to import and apply
any of the above exceptions, constitutionally carved out and as
developed by the decisions of the Apex Court to the facts of the
present case. 107.	In
the result, on this point it can be held thus :- Government
could have insisted for appointment both the times which is not done
except for reiteration in the communication. This may not find favour
with the Court and yet, on the question of permissibility of exercise
of powers under the constitution or otherwise , this non action
cannot allow the powers to be shifted when there existed none. This
also cannot bring the case under any of the exceptions carved out by
the case laws . 107.2		As
discussed earlier, with consultation process not being over in case
of appointment of respondent No.1 and with no communication or
indication to the Governor from the Chief Justice or the Council of
Ministers for issuance of warrant, and contrarily , indication in
the letter of18th August, 2011 is of awaiting the reply to
the concern raised in the last communication addressed to the Chief
Justice, act of issuance of warrant shall have to be held as without
the authority under the law. 107.3	As
indicated there is no time limit to issue ordinance and as has been
done by the Governor, the same could not have been insisted upon . Under the Commissions of Inquiry Act , appointment of former Judge
of the Supreme Court of India and referring to the commission some of
the matters of public importance could surely not provide the ground
to act independently invoking exceptional clause. Thus,
 this is neither case of inherent or apparent bias nor of peril to
the democratic set-up nor covered under any other emergent situation
to fall under any other exceptions. 108.	One
 must be anxious to ensure that non-appointment on such a vital post
is not allowed on one or the other grounds as expiry of the period of
5 years would take away from the purview of the Lokayukta those
subjects of investigation and, therefore, this is a vital
consideration to be kept in mind while judging the actions of all
functionaries. But, in that endeavour, the Court cannot permit the
disturbance of vital equilibrium of democratic set up envisaged by
the Constitutional framers and thereby allow any authority to
overreach the mandates of the Constitution. This thin and yet vital
balance needs to be inevitably maintained Neither in the name of
delay nor in the name of growing demand, nor in an attempt to set
right the lapse of long period of appointment, shortcut made
impermissible by the Constitution can be endorsed by the Court of law
more particularly, when facts discussed hereinabove indicate no such
necessity to permit such a course otherwise not allowed. 109.	Apex
Court in case of S.R.Chaudhari V/s. State of Punjab (Supra ), after
referring to Prof. B.O. Nwabueze from his book "Constitutionalism
in the Emergent States" (1973 Edition) stated thus : 110.
 	It would be appropriate to quote Nani Palkhiwala here from his
book "We the Nation" : 111.	Declaratory
Relief :- 112.	Before
concluding, it is imperative to mention that when the petition of
the State is being allowed, there would arise the question of void as
for all these years, no appointment has been made to the post of
Lokayukta and, therefore, without entering into the technicality and
considering the fact that there is already a petition in the form of
 Public Interest Litigation pending before this Court, the direction
for an early appointment would be necessary. Final
Conclusion : 113.	Accordingly,
I conclude as under:- 114.	With
this, the petition of the State being SCA No. 12632 of 2011 is
allowed declaring the action of appointment in valid and contrary to
Constitutional mandate with the consequential relief of quashing the
warrant dated 25.8.2010 appointing respondent No.1 as Lokayukta for
the State of Gujarat. 115.
	In the result, Special Civil Application No.13499 of 2011 is also
required to be allowed. 116.	In
this premise, SCA No. 12632 of 2011 and SCA 13499 of 2011 and other
Civil Applications stand disposed of in light of above declaration . (Ms.
Sonia Gokani, J. ) 
 

 

Sudhir*