1. The petitioner has filed the instant petition under Section 438 Cr.P.C.
for grant of bail in the event of arrest in FIR No.118/2021 dated 10.04.2021
registered at Police Station South Rohini for offences punishable under Sections 328 , 389 and 34 IPC. 2. The brief facts leading to this bail application are as under: in cash were made and the complainant was threatened that if
 demands are not met the petitioner herein would file a case of rape
 against the complainant. It is stated that after the incident the
 complainant was called more than 25 times for payment of money.
 The complainant also produced various voice recordings to
 substantiate that the petitioner and Nikhil Bhattal are demanding
 money from the complainant and threatening him that if their
 demands are not met a case of rape would be filed against the BAIL APPLN. 2837/2021 Page 2 of 7 complainant. FIR No.118/2021 dated 10.04.2021 was registered at
 Police Station South Rohini for offences punishable under Sections
 328 , 389 and 34 IPC. b) It is pertinent to mention here that the petitioner and Nikhil
 Bhattal also filed a complaint against the complainant herein, being
 FIR No.119/2021, dated 10.04.2021, for offences under sections
 376 / 506 IPC. c) The co-accused Nikhil Bhattal was arrested on 11.04.2021. He
 has been granted bail by this Court vide order dated 22.07.2021 in
 BAIL APPLN. 1520/2021. d) The petitioner filed an application for anticipatory bail, being
 Bail application No.2776/2021, before the learned Sessions Judge,
 North West District, Rohini Courts, which was rejected vide order
 dated 30.07.2021. e) The petitioner has, thereafter, approached this Court by filing
 the instant bail application. 3. Notice was issued on 04.08.2021. Status Report has been filed. The
Status Report indicates that in the voice recording the petitioner herein is
also heard demanding a TV and a Mobile phone from the complainant. It is
also mentioned in the Status Report that the petitioner is being heard
threatening the complainant of dire consequences. It is stated in the Status
Report that the petitioner has no permanent address and her mobile phone is
also switched off. It is stated in the Status Report that despite making all
efforts the Police has not been able to arrest find the petitioner and she is
evading arrest. 4. Heard Mr. Viraj Datar, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner, Mr.
Rahul Chandlok, learned counsel for the complainant and Ms. Kusum
Dhalla, learned APP for the State and perused the material on record. 5. Mr. Viraj Datar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner
states that the fact that the petitioner was trying to prepare her defence and
therefore the fact that she did not join the investigation does not mean that
the petitioner was absconding. He states that the petitioner had gone to the
Police Station and her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C was recorded in
the complaint filed by her against the complainant onb allegations of rape.
He states that the mere ipse dixit in the Status Report that the petitioner is
absconding does not hold water. He states that the Police have not taken any
steps/action against the petitioner by filing applications before the concerned
Court to declare the petitioner a proclaimed offender. He further states that
other than taking voice samples there is no necessity for arresting the
petitioner and therefore the petitioner should be granted anticipatory bail. 6. Per contra, Ms. Kusum Dhalla, learned APP contends that the
petitioner was not available at her residence when the Police went there and
the petitioner had not joined the investigation. She also states that the FIR
was lodged on 10.04.2021 and the Police did not rush to the court by
moving an application without taking all efforts to ensure that the accused
against whom allegations are made joins the investigation. She states that
the present case is one of honey trap and the fact that the petitioner gave her
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. would have no relevance because the
first step in a case of rape is to record the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 Cr.P.C. She further states that the moment the complainant filed
the instant FIR the petitioner has gone into hiding and she has surfaced only BAIL APPLN. 2837/2021 Page 4 of 7 when the co-accused, Nikhil Bhattal, was granted bail by this Court. She
further states that the investigation is at a very nascent stage, qua the
petitioner, the petitioner is alleged of an offence under Section 328 IPC for
which the petitioner can be punished with up to ten years of imprisonment.
She states that the conduct of the petitioner shows that she can abscond and
therefore the petitioner ought not be granted anticipatory bail. 7. Mr. Rahul Chandlok, the learned counsel for the complainant supports
the case of the prosecution and states that the petitioner and the co-accused
have constantly threatened the complainant and have demanded money. He
states that it is a case of honey trap and anticipatory bail ought not to be
given to the petitioner. 8. A reading of the FIR shows that this is a case of honey trap. The
allegation against the petitioner is that she has threatened the complainant
and has demanded money. Material on record shows that only when the
complainant filed the instant FIR, the petitioner filed her complaint under Section 376 IPC against the complainant herein. Investigation is at a very
nascent stage. The petitioner is accused of an offence under Section 328 IPC
which permits for imprisonment up to four years. 9. The parameters that are necessary for consideration for grant of
anticipatory bail are well settled. The Court while granting or rejecting to
grant bail has to take into account several facts such as: 10. It is well settled that while considering the prayer for grant of
anticipatory bail, a balance has to be struck between two factors,
namely: 11. Charge-sheet qua the petitioner is yet to be filed. The petitioner's
voice sample has to be taken and the investigation has also to be conducted
as to whether there are any other cases in which the petitioner is involved
and as stated earlier the investigation is at a nascent stage. The petitioner is
accused of an offence under Section 328 IPC, which is a serious offence.
There is some justification in the contention of the learned APP that the
conduct of the petitioner does show that there is a likelihood of her fleeing
from justice and that she would not cooperate with the investigation. The
probability of the petitioner and the co-accused, Nikhil Bhattal, extending
threats to the complainant cannot be ruled out at this stage. 12. In view of the above, this Court feels that this is not a fit case where BAIL APPLN. 2837/2021 Page 6 of 7 the petitioner should be granted bail in the event of arrest. 13. Accordingly, the petition is dismissed along with the pending
applications, if any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. AUGUST 16, 2021
Rahul BAIL APPLN. 2837/2021 Page 7 of 7