Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of rule for the
respondent State. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined 1. By way of present petition, the petitioner seeks for
quashment of the order below Exh. 31 dated 19.04.2023 passed
by the Ld. Sessions Judge, Bhavnagar in Sessions Case No. 145
of 2022 with Sessions Case No. 153 of 2022 with Sessions Case
No. 9 of 2023 and to further direct further investigation in
connection with Sessions Case No. 145 of 2022 with Sessions
Case No. 153 of 2022 with Sessions Case No. 9 of 2023 to be
carried out by superior officer not below the rank of
Superintendent of Police pending before the Ld. Principal District
Judge, Bhavnagar. 2. The petitioner is the original complainant and for the sake
of brevity, the petitioner is referred to as a complainant in this
order. 3. Brief facts of the case are as under:- Since the offence alleged against the accused were exclusively
triable by the Court of Sessions, after being committed, all three
charge sheets were registered as Sessions Case Nos.145/2022,
153/2022 and 9 of 2023. All are ordered to be tried together. In
the above sessions cases, an application Exh.31 was moved by
the complainant u/s 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 for further investigation of the offence. By impugned order
dated 19.4.2023, the learned Session Judge, Bhavnagar rejected
application Exh.31. 4. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the petitioner has
preferred present petition seeking above stated relief. 5. Learned advocate Mr. Nimit Shukla appears for the
petitioner and learned APP Mr. KM Antani appears for the
respondent State. 6. Though served, none remained present for the respondent
No.2. 7. Learned advocate Mr. Nimit Shukla for the petitioner
referring to reason Nos.3 to 12 stated in the application Exh.31,
would submit that the investigating officer has made unfair and
baised investigation. He would further submit that the police
has not carried out panchnama of the Hotel Citadel, whereupon
the complainant met with the accused Kajal. He would further
submit that in the interest of justice, it is necessary to draw Page 4 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

panchnama where the complainant met with the accused Kajal
first time. Simultaneously, the police has also not carried out
panchnama of the office of the complainant, whereupon first
time, accused Samatbhai and Rajubhai came to meet the
complainant. It is also alleged that CCTV footage of the Citadel
Hotel is not collected as evidence. It is further submitted that
the abstract of the Register of the Citadel Hotel, where the
complainant and accused Kajal have signed, is not obtained nor
sent for analysis of the hand-writing expert. It is also alleged
that though CDR of mobile numbers are obtained, no CIF form is
collected as to prove CDR which are possessed by the accused
and which are forming part of the talks between the complainant
and the accused. In such a way, it is submitted that the police
has made a stall and incomplete investigation. 8. Learned advocate Mr. Shukla would further submit that to
meet with the principle of fair trial, the police is required to
collect all such evidence and has to make out proper
investigation when allegation of serious offences of extortion and
honey trap has been alleged against the accused. But, police has
carried out one sided investigation which downplay the rigours
of the incident and may help the accused. He would further
submit that even some of the persons are not made as an
accused though clear case is made against them. 9. Referring to judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Anant Thanur Karmuse Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in
2023(1) GLH 553, learned advocate Mr. Shukla would submit
that though in the present case, charge is framed and the Page 5 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

witnesses are examined, the limits which is stated in case of Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya Vs. State of Gujarat reported in
(2019) 17 SCC 1, would not come in way of this Court to pass
necessary orders for further investigation. He would further
submit that limit which is stated in case of Vinubhai Haribhai
Malaviya (supra) would not apply to the constitutional Court in
case if the situation demands for further investigation. He would
further submit that fair investigation is the fundamental right of
the complainant and if the same is not done, it may prejudice
the very purpose and the right stated therein. 10. Upon the foregoing arguments, it is submitted that the
learned Session Judge has committed serious error in rejecting
application Exh.31. Learned advocate Mr. Shukla would further
submit that this Court should exercise constitutional powers
and in view of various reasons stated in the petition, this Court
has to interfere with the impugned order and order for further
investigation. 11. At the end of argument, it is submitted to allow this
petition. 12. On the other hand, learned APP Mr. Antani canvassed two
fold submissions. 13. Firstly referring to the grounds mentioned in application
Exh.31 for seeking further investigation of the offence, he would
submit that none of the grounds making out case for exercising
powers u/s 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, Page 6 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

which allows the learned trial Court to pass an order of further
investigation. He would further submit that the order of further
investigation cannot be made at the whims and thoughts of the
complainant. He would further submit that the petitioner is a
de facto complainant. Reading the provisions of section 173(8) of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, he would submit that
power is lying with the investigating officer or the Court
conducting the matter to order for further investigation to do the
justice, but in the present case, the complainant wants to carry
out the investigation in a particular way, which is not permitted
and rightly has been denied by the learned trial Court. He would
further submit that before seeking relief of further investigation,
the de facto complainant must establish grounds that the
investigation has seriously prejudiced his right to take justice.
He would further submit that marking out certain points or
circumstances as thought by the complainant would not allow
him to seek relief for further investigation. 14. Secondly, learned APP would submit that in the present
case, charge is already framed and the trial is progressed. The
petitioner complainant has approached this Court at the stage of
leading evidence in sessions case and as such, the equity is not
foreseeable in the present case. He would further submit that
delay and laches should be considered in the present case to
deny the relief. He has also referred to and relied upon the case
of State of Maharashtra Vs. Digambar reported in (1995) 4 SCC
683 to contend that delay and laches proves pivotal effect in
denying the relief to the writ petitioner. He would further submit
that in the present case, more than 30 witnesses are examined Page 7 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

and the trial is at a substantial stage. So allowing further
proceedings at this stage would seriously prejudice the right of
the accused and would be antithetical to the principle of fair
trial. The submission was canvassed to dismiss the petition. 15. Heard learned advocates appearing for both the sides and
also perused the authorities cited at bar . 16. At the outset, following undisputed facts are emerging from
the record.  By way of this petition, the petitioner complainant prayed
 to quash and set aside the order passed below Exh.31. As
 such, essentially, the petitioner is asking for allowing
 application Exh.31 filed before the learned Session Court.
  The trial is substantially progressed and more than 30
 witnesses are examined.  The petitioner has not invoked jurisdiction of this Court
 seeking further investigation, but has invoked jurisdiction
 of this Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India
 to issue writ of mandamus to quash and set aside the
 impugned order passed below Exh.31 denying further
 investigation. 17. Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
reads as under:- 18. It is undoubted that the constitutional Court can direct
further investigation even by some other investigating agency.
The fair investigation is a pivotal to fair trial. It is undoubted
that the power to order fresh/ de novo or re-investigation are
being vested with the constitutional Court. The proceeding of
the trial or examination of some witnesses cannot be an absolute
impediment and fatuous the constitutional power from
exercising it ensuring for the fair and just investigation. 19. At this juncture, I may refer to the observations and
findings of the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Anant Thanur
Karmuse (supra) in para 8.1 and 8.2, which reads as under:- 8.2 In the case of Dharam Pal (supra), after taking into
 consideration the catena of decisions on the point, it is
 observed and held that the constitutional courts can direct
 for further investigation or investigation by some other
 investigating agency. It is observed that the purpose is,
 there has to be a fair investigation and a fair trial. It is
 observed that the fair trial may be quite difficult unless
 there is a fair investigation. It is further observed and held
 that the power to order fresh, de novo or re- investigation Page 10 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

 being vested with the constitutional courts, the
 commencement of a trial and examination of some witnesses
 cannot be an absolute impediment for exercising the said
 constitutional power which is meant to ensure a fair and
 just investigation. While observing and holding so, in
 paragraphs 24 and 25, it is observed and held s under:- 20. Bearing in mind the above principle culled out from the
binding precedent, if we look back to the facts of the case, at the
cost of repetition, it can be said that by way of this petition, the
petitioner has not invoked the constitutional power of this Court
for re-investigation or de novo investigation or fresh
investigation. What has been asked is to upturn the order
passed below Exh.31, whereby, the learned Session Judge has
declined relief of further investigation. Clear distinction can be
marked in both the preposition. 21. In case of Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya (supra), whereby it
is unequivocally stated about the powers of Magistrate exercising
for further investigation. The Hon'ble Apex Court limits the
power to be exercised till commencement of trial. The relevant
observation made in para 42 reads as under:- 22. Coming back to the case on hand, though the petitioner
has pointed out certain exigencies for seeking further
investigation, but none of them can be considered as a lapse or
deficiency in the investigation, which equates with non-
observation of fair investigation. Referring grounds mentioned in
Exh.31, they are no more than thoughts of the complainant.
They cannot consider emotion for further investigation on to
term the investigation unfair. Merely, the petitioner complainant
wishes to carry out investigation in a particular way would not
be a reason for order for further investigation of the offence.
There is no circumstance pointed out by the petitioner
complainant which warranting further investigation of the
offence. Some of thoughts in mind of the complainant if not
carried out by investigating officer in investigation of the offence,
it cannot be basis of order for further investigation. The
complainant seeking further investigation is needed to show and
display serious lapses, which are glaring and have prejudicial
affect upon fair trial. Further to be noted that one of the
accused Mr. Vijay Parmar is under trial prisoner and it is
specifically observed by the learned trial Court in the impugned
order that he is in judicial custody since long and the matter is
at the stage of recording of the evidence. This reason is also
weighed with the learned trial Court for denying the application. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/SCR.A/8608/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 08/11/2023

 undefined

The fact of case of Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya (supra) has been
applied to its proper perspective by the learned trial Court along
with judgment of Athul Rao Vs. State of Karnataka reported in
(2018) 14 SCC 298. 23. Under the supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the
Constitution of India, this Court do not find any reason to
interfere with the impugned order. 24. Resultantly, present petition fails and stands dismissed.
Rule discharged. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
SHEKHAR P. BARVE Page 15 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed Nov 08 20:52:25 IST 2023