This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has
been filed seeking following relief:- 2. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that on the FIR
lodged by the respondent No. 4, respondent No. 3 has registered Crime
No.736/2022 at Police Station Kotwali Disrict Morena for offence under Sections 354 and 506 of IPC. During the course of arguments, it was
submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that since the entire alleged
incident of outraging the modesty had taken place in Delhi, therefore, the
Police Station Kotwali District Morena has no jurisdiction to register the
FIR. It is further submitted that the petitioner has made a representation 3 to the police authorities to obtain the call details, CCTV footage of Bank
as well as whatsapp chat of respondent No. 4, but no heed has been paid
by the police. It is further submitted that although the respondent No. 4
has claimed herself to be an illiterate lady, but the whatsapp chats of the
petitioner indicate that she was writing in English. 3. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner. 4. The petitioner by making an application to the police authorities
had claimed that the respondent No. 4 had not come to Delhi, therefore,
the said fact can be verified from taking her mobile location. In the
application, it has also been objected that since the main offence of
catching hold of the hands of respondent No. 4 with an evil intention and
pressing her breast was allegedly committed in Delhi, therefore, Police
Station Kotwali District Morena should have registered the FIR at '0' and
should have transferred the case to the police of competent jurisdiction.
Respondent No. 4 is a lady of easy virtue and by falsely implicating in
Honey Trap, she is in habit of lodging the FIRs. 5. Sections 177 and 178 of CrPC reads as under:- 6. From the plain reading of Section 178 of CrPC, it is clear that if a
part of offence is committed within the territorial jurisdiction of different
police station, then the matter can be tried by a Court having jurisdiction
over any of such local areas. 7. If the FIR is considered, then it is clear that a part of cause of
action had taken place within the territorial jurisdiction of Police Station
Kotwali District Morena. It is specifically mentioned in the FIR that the
respondent No. 4 had lost her husband in the year 2013 and from
thereafter she is residing along with her children in a rented premises and
was looking for a job. About 8 days prior to the date of FIR she received
a phone calls from mobile No. 92649 70480 and the caller disclosed his
name as Nishant Mishra and allured that he has come to know that she is
in search of job and the petitioner is working in Mahindra Kotak Bank,
Noida and is in habit of assisting the ladies who are destitute. Since the
respondent No. 4 was in need of job, therefore, she started talking to the
petitioner. The petitioner asked her to come to Delhi, where he would
provide a job to her and thereafter she went to Delhi on 20.07.2022 and
at about 06:00 PM reached to the place as instructed by the petitioner.
The petitioner also came out of his Bank and they both had a tea in a tea
stall. When the respondent No. 4 enquired about the job, then the
petitioner assured that on the next day, they will talk about the job and,
thereafter took her to an empty plot situated behind the tea stall and
caught hold of her hand with evil intention and also started inserting his
hand in her clothes to touch her breast. When it was objected by the
respondent No. 4, then it was stated by the petitioner that if she wants to
get some job, then she has to satisfy him otherwise he would kill her. Thereafter, the respondent No. 4 ran away from the spot and came back
to Morena and informed the entire incident to her brother and,
accordingly, FIR was lodged on 24.07.2022. Thus, as per the FIR, the
petitioner had allured the respondent No. 4 by making her call which was
received by the respondent No. 4 at a place falling within the territorial
jurisdiction of Morena. Since only on the allurement of the petitioner,
respondent No. 4 had gone to Delhi, therefore, a part of cause of action
had also arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of Police Station Kotwali
District Morena and in the light of Sections 177 and 178 of CrPC, the
Police Station Kotwali District Morena also has territorial jurisdiction to
entertain the FIR. Therefore, no mistake was committed by the Police
Station Kotwali District Morena by registering the FIR. 8. So far as the question of request made by the petitioner to the
police authorities for investigating the matter in a particular manner is
concerned, it is well established principle of law that this Court while
exercising power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot
supervise the investigation, although it can monitor the same. The
difference between the supervision and monitoring has been explained by
the Supreme Court in the case of Manohar Lal Sharma Vs. Principal
Secretary and others reported in (2014) 2 SCC 532 and has held as
under:- 9. It has been held in the case of Manohar Lal Sharma (supra) that
to supervise would mean to observe and direct the execution of a task
whereas to monitor would only mean to maintain surveillance. If this
Court directs the Police Station to investigate the offence in a particular
manner, then it would certainly amount to supervision and not
monitoring. Monitoring the investigation is just to ensure that the
Investigating Agency is conducting the investigation in free, fair and
time bond manner without any external interference. Thus, the relief
sought by the petitioner in the present petition cannot be granted as it
was amount to supervision which is not permissible under the law. 10. The Supreme Court in the case of XYZ Vs. State of Madhya
Pradesh by order dated 05.08.2022 passed in SLP (Cri) No.1674/2022
has held as under:- (emphasis supplied) 31. While the Delhi High Court made these
observations while dealing with a case of rape, courts
must remain alive to their duty to treat victims
sensitively in cases alleging all forms of sexual
harassment and sexual assault. The Courts must try to
ensure that the process of attempting to bring alleged
perpetrators to justice is not onerous for the victims.
Aggrieved persons should not have to run from pillar to
post for the mere registration of a complaint and
initiation of investigation especially when a cognizable
offence is prima facie made out in their complaint. 32. In Aparna Bhat v State of Madhya
Pradesh , a two-judge Bench of this Court took note of
the "entrenched paternalistic and misogynistic attitudes
that are regrettably reflected at times in judicial orders
and judgments." In that case, Justice S. Ravindra Bhat
observed and we reiterate: Even an indirect undermining of this responsibility
 cast upon the court, by permitting discursive
 formations on behalf of the accused, that seek to
 diminish his agency, or underplay his role as an
 active participant (or perpetrator) of the crime,
 could in many cases, shake the confidence of the
 rape survivor (or accuser of the crime) in the
 impartiality of the court. The current attitude
 regarding crimes against women typically is that
 "grave" offences like rape are not tolerable and
 offenders must be punished. This, however, only
 takes into consideration rape and other serious
 forms of gender-based physical violence. The
 challenges Indian women face are formidable : they
 include a misogynistic society with entrenched
 cultural values and beliefs, bias (often sub-
 conscious) about the stereotypical role of women,
 social and political structures that are heavily male-
 centric, most often legal enforcement structures that
 either cannot cope with, or are unwilling to take
 strict and timely measures. Therefore, reinforcement
 of this stereotype, in court utterances or orders,
 through considerations which are extraneous to the
 case, would impact fairness. ... 43. The instances spelt out in the present
 judgment are only illustrations; the idea is that the
 greatest extent of sensitivity is to be displayed in the
 judicial approach, language and reasoning adopted
 by the judge. Even a solitary instance of such order
 or utterance in court, reflects adversely on the entire
 judicial system of the country, undermining the
 guarantee to fair justice to all, and especially to
 victims of sexual violence (of any kind from the
 most aggravated to the so-called minor offences). 33. The legislature has, at places, moulded
criminal procedure to enable victims of sexual crimes to 10 seek justice. This has been done in recognition of the
gravity of sexual crimes and the need to handle such
cases in an appropriately sensitive manner. For instance, Section 327 CrPC provides for in camera trials to be
conducted with respect to offences punishable under Sections 376 , 376A, 376B, 376C or 376D of the Indian
Penal Code 1860. 34. This Court, too, has had its role to play in
ensuring that justice does not remain inaccessible. In State of Maharashtra v. Bandu @ Daulat , this Court
directed that special centres be set up in each state in
order to facilitate depositions by vulnerable witnesses,
including victims of sexual offences. In Smruti
Tukaram Badade v. State of Maharashtra , a two judge
bench of this Court (of which one of us, Dr. DY
Chandrachud, J. was a part) supplemented the directions
issued in Bandu @ Daulat (supra) with respect to
setting up such special centres. 35. It is the duty and responsibility of trial
courts to deal with the aggrieved persons before them in
an appropriate manner, by: Furthermore, no such relief has been claimed by the petitioner in the writ
 petition. 14. Considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 coupled with the fact that the petitioner himself has filed whatsapp chats
 which had taken place between him and respondent No. 4, in which
 respondent No. 4 has specifically made allegations against the petitioner,
 this Court is of the considered opinion that no case is made out for
 entertaining this writ petition. 15. Accordingly, the petition fails and is hereby dismissed. (G.S. AHLUWALIA)
 JUDGE
Abhi Digitally signed by ABHISHEK CHATURVEDI Date: 2022.08.18 17:14:30 +05'30'