This petition is filed seeking grant of bail under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, pertaining to

Crime No.213/2018 of Sarjapur Police Station. The said

case after charge sheet culminated into CC No. 1734/18.

Finally after committal proceedings, it came to be

registered as SC No.5014/2019, pending on the file of III

Additional District and Sessions Judge, Bangalore Rural

District, sitting at Anekal. The said case was registered for

the offence punishable under sections 14A and 14B of the

Foreigners Act, 1946; under Section 25 of the Indian Arms

Act, 1959; and Section 34 of the Aadhaar Act, 2016. 2. The petitioners are arraigned as Accused Nos.7

and 10 respectively in the said Case. 3. The brief facts of the case divulged from the

Charge sheet papers are that: 4. On plain reading of the Charge Sheet papers, it

is seen that specific allegations have been made against

the petitioners that, they are Bangladesh citizens, and they

have been illegally migrated to Indian Territory and

residing in India without any authority of law. Hence, they 5 have committed the offence under Sections 14A and 14B of the Foreigners Act. So far as other offences are

concerned, no such allegations are made against the

petitioners. 5. At the time of submitting arguments, the

petitioners' counsels Sri C. Mohammad Pasha, Sri

Sirajuddin Ahmed and as well the learned High Court

Government Pleader Sri Rohith B.J., have submitted that,

there is no decision as to when and on what grounds the

bail can be granted to such persons. No specific guidelines

have been made to regulate the stay of such persons who

have come to India without any Passport or Visa. There

are no specific guidelines in this context as to how those

persons should be treated during the course of

investigation, inquiry, trial, and after acquittal or

conviction by the Courts. Therefore, both of them have

submitted that this court has to hear the matter in detail

so as to set some guidelines to the Police, Judicial officers,

and to all the Government Officers concerned, who are in 6 the helm of affairs while dealing with deportation of such

persons. 6. In the above said background, this Court has felt

that the Central Government is also a necessary party, as

such, the Counsel for the petitioners was directed to make

the Central Government as a party to the proceedings.

Accordingly, as per the Court's order dated 16.10.2019,

the Union of India, Ministry of Home Affairs is also made

as Respondent No.2. 7. I have heard the Learned Counsels for the

Petitioners Shri C.Mohammad Pasha and Sri Sirajuddin

Ahmed who enlightened the Court on various aspects. The

learned Additional Solicitor General Sri C. Shashikantha,

who has taken notice of the petition on behalf of the Union

of India, has also very effectively assisted the Court in

disposing of this petition. Sri Prasanna Deshpande,

Additional Advocate General, along with Sri B.J. Rohith,

learned High Court Government Pleader, have also given 7 their valuable inputs to this Court as and when required

with necessary particulars. 8. In view of the extensive submissions made by the

learned Counsels as noted supra, and various legal and

factual points which have been raised, though it appears

to be simple bail matter, but the Court has taken up the

matter in detail to discuss about various facets of the case

so as to find out some solutions to the gray areas in law,

so as to lay down certain guidelines if possible. Though, it

is a very difficult task to lay down guidelines exhaustively

but an effort, and endeavor is always expected from the

court, in that context an attempt is made by this Court. 9. The Learned Counsels for the Petitioners Sri

Mohammad Pasha and Sri Sirajuddin Ahmad in detail

submitted that, petitioners though migrated themselves

without any Passport or Visa, but they can still be

considered as Indian citizens since they are living in India

for a long period and a child is also born to second 8 petitioner, and presently the child though not committed

any offence is with the mother in the jail. The foreigners

have to be treated with all dignity and respect till they are

deported to their country if they are found to be illegally

residing in Indian Territory. Women and Children have to

be given with special facilities during their detention or

stay in India. Therefore, they submitted that proper

directions may be issued to the concerned authorities in

this regard. 10. The learned Additional Solicitor General Sri C.

Shashikantha submitted that, the Central Government in

this Context has made certain guidelines and also taken

care of the foreign nationals who have violated the laws of

Indian territory by way of issuing directions to the

concerned authorities under various provisions of law in

the name and Style of "MODEL DETENTION

CENTRE/HOLDING CENTRE/CAMP MANUAL 2019", which

exhaustively covers all the queries raised by the learned

counsel for the petitioners. Therefore, he has submitted 9 that, the same may be taken into consideration. He has

also submitted so far as women and children are

concerned, the other prevailing laws like Juvenile Justice

Act, and Prisons Act and Rules and Jail Manuals would take

care of the same. 11. The Learned Additional Advocate General Shri

Prasanna Deshpande and Learned High Court Government

Pleader Sri Rohith B.J., have submitted that various

directions have been issued by this Court, regarding

adaptation of the directions issued by the Central

Government to the State Government. The State

Government has in-turn furnished sufficient information to

the Court in this regard, and they requested the Court to

peruse the same. 12. The Learned Additional Solicitor General and as

well, the learned Additional Advocate General are of the

opinion that even if bail is granted to the petitioners, they

should not be allowed to go anywhere and their 10 movements have to be restricted, till they are deported to

their country, they shall have to be kept in the Detention

Centers though not in regular jails unless the court

concerned feels it just and necessary under the facts and

circumstances of each case. It is also submitted that, the

State Government has already established Detention

Centers in this regard. 13. In the wake of the above said submissions, the

Court has to examine this Case with regard to the

following important points: 14. Before answering the above points it is just and

necessary to bear in mind that, once the appropriate

Governments or Union Territories or any other authority is

entrusted with the task of identifying, detecting and

deporting the illegal migrants, it is their duty to deport

them to their respective nation as expeditiously as

possible. The Courts should also bear in mind that, India

is a large country having its border with many countries.

People in the sub-continent have a common history and

share many similarities in physical looks. Due to various

reasons including political or economical, inimical reasons,

some people from neighboring countries may enter India.

May be due to some cultural and ethnic similarities, on

many occasions such migrants go unnoticed and they

almost willing and try to settle in our country. These

illegal migrants sometimes pose threat to the national 12 security, and infringe the rights of Indian Citizens. It

should also be borne in mind that now-a-days terrorism

has become serious concern for most of the nations.

Illegal migrants who enter Indian Territory with obvious

motives to cause damage to the national security are more

vulnerable. It is also evident from various instances which

happened in India, that some miscreants have recruited

Indian citizens to their organizations for their wrongful

gain, in turn to cause wrongful loss to Indian territory. We

have very bitter examples of infiltrators inhuman acts at

Jammu and Kashmir, Rohigyas in State of Myanmar. The

retaining of the illegal migrants may be some times helpful

to the country if they came to our country eking their lively

hood and they are all from hard working community. But,

that does not mean to say that for that reason, they can

be retained in India in violation of the various Acts and

Rules of the Country. 15. Therefore, preventing the entry of illegal

migrants to India and deporting them to their country, if 13 they are found to be illegal migrants or without or invalid

Passport and Visa, continued to reside in India without any

authority of law, is an important task as they also some

time impose pressure on citizens and pose a security

threat, especially in sensitive areas. In this background,

we have to understand how those persons should be dealt

with and what are the responsibilities of the authorities,

who are in the helm of affairs. 16. FIRST POINT: In order to answer this point,

various facets of laws of the land with reference to the

facts, needs to be discussed in detail. The following are the

important aspects: 17. Illegal migrants: Section 2(1) (b) of Indian

Citizenship Act, 1955, explains who is an illegal migrant,

and how citizenship can be acquired. The provision reads

as follows. means a foreigner who has entered into India - (i) without a valid Passport or other
 travel documents and such other document or
 authority as may be prescribed by or under
 any law in that behalf; or (ii) with a valid Passport or other
 travel documents and such other document or
 authority as may be prescribed by or under
 any law in that behalf but remains therein
 beyond the permitted period of time; (i) Except as provided in sub-section (2),
 every person born in India, (a) On or after the 26th day of January, 1950,
 but before the 1st day of July, 1987; (b) On or after the 1st day of July, 1987, but
 before the commencement of the Citizenship
 (Amendment) Act, 2003 and either of whose
 parents is a citizen of India at the time of his
 birth; (c) On or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 , where (i) both of his parents are citizens of India;
 or (ii) one of whose parents is a citizen of
 India and the other is not an illegal migrant at
 the time of his birth,

 shall be a citizen of India by birth. 18. Therefore, according to Indian law, illegal

migrants are not actually refugees. Since India is not

a signatory to the 1951 Refugee Convention, the United

Nations principle of non-refoulement and impediment to

expulsion does not apply in India. Illegal migrants are 16 denied impediment to expulsion if they do not fall within

the host country's legal definition of a lawful refugee.

Illegal migrants are those people who migrate to a

country in violation of the immigration laws, and who have

not acquired the citizenship of India, or continued their

residence without any sort of legal right to live in our

country. That means to say the persons who have not

acquired any citizenship as per the Indian Citizenship Act ,

but who resides in India fall under the category of illegal

migrants. Even the children born to parents who are

illegal migrants, or any one of them is illegal migrant is

also not a citizen of India automatically by birth.

Therefore, it clearly goes to show that taking birth in India

is not a criterion, but they should fall under the definition

as defined under the Citizenship Act . 19. In this background it is appropriate to note that,

in a case reported in (2005) 5 SCC 174 between

Sarbananda Sonowal and Union of India, wherein the

Hon'ble Apex court in clear terms after detail thorough 17 discussion rejected the bringing of an act called 'Illegal

Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983,

holding that, the Act "has created the biggest hurdle and

that is an impediment or barrier in the identification and

deportation of illegal migrants." On 9th August 2012, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court while hearing a Public Interest

Litigation petition for deportation of illegal migrants, it was

observed that, the policy of the Government of India does

not support any kind of illegal migration either into its

territory or illegal immigration and the Government is

committed to deport illegal migrants, but only lawfully. 20. The Citizenship Amendment Act , amended in the

year 2019 , which gave some relief to some persons,

which reads as follows. 21. Therefore, it is clear that the persons who are not

given with any neutralization certificate or who does not

fall within the category of amended provisions of Citizenship Act and who are defined as illegal migrants are

to be treated as illegal migrants to Indian Territory. 22. (b) Detection, identification and

determination of foreign nationals who are accused

of committing offences in India: 23. Let me have some provisions under important

laws in this regard. (1) Under 'the Passport (Entry into
 India) Act 1920', Section 2 defines the word 'entry' means
 entry by water, land or air; Section 3 of the Act 'Power to make
 Rules' says that the Central Government may
 make Acts and Rules to prohibit the entry into
 India or any part thereof any person who has
 not in his possession a Passport issued to him; Section 4 of the Act 'Power of arrest' also
 provides that - (1) any officer of police, not
 below the rank of a sub-Inspector, and any
 officer of the Customs Department empowered
 by a general or special order of the (Central
 Government) in this behalf may arrest without a
 warrant any person who has contravened or
 against whom a reasonable suspicion exists 20 that, he has contravened any rule or order
made under section 3 of the Act. general or special order, direct the removal of
any person from India who, in contravention of
any Rule made under Section 3 of the Act,
prohibiting entry into India without Passport and
thereupon any officer of the Government shall
have all reasonable powers necessary to enforce
such direction. (2) The Passports Act, 1967 and the
Passport Rules, 1980, are enacted to regulate
the purpose of issue of Passports and travel
documents, to regulate the departure from
India, the Citizens of India and for other
persons and for matters incidental or ancillary
thereto. Under this Act particularly Sections 2 and 3 , defines what is meant by 'departure',
'Passport', 'Passport Authority', 'Prescribed' and
'travel documents'. Section 3 , explains the 'Passport or travel
document for departure from India'. Section 12 of the Act deals with the
offences and penalties prescribed. Section 13 of the Act deals with the power
to arrest such persons who have committed
any offence under section 12 of the Act. Section 13(1) prescribes the Officers who
are empowered to make arrest by a general or
special order of the Central Government (like
officer of police not below the rank of Sub-
Inspector or Immigration Officer Etc.,)

 (3) Under Section 14 , 14A and 14B of the
Foreigners Act, 1946, the offences are defined
as to who can be treated as not a citizen of
India. It can be safely said that, under Section
14 , whoever (a) remains in India exceeding the
period mentioned in Visa, (b) does any act in
violation of the conditions of the valid Visa
regarding his entry and stay in India (c)
contravenes the provisions of this Act or any
order made or any direction given in pursuance
of this Act or such order. The said acts shall be
punished with imprisonment for 5 years and
with fine etc., 22 (4) Section 14 (A) deals with 'penalty for
entry of a person in a restricted areas' etc.,
whoever - (a) enters into any area in India, which is
 restricted for his entry under any order
 made under this Act, or any direction
 given, remains in such area without any
 authority of law beyond the period
 specified in any permit for his stay; or (b) Any person enters into or stays in
 India in any area without valid
 documents required for such entry or
 stay; shall be punished with imprisonment for
 two years and may extend to eight years
 with fine. (5) Section 14(B) deals with 'Penalty
 for using forged Passport', whoever uses a
 forged Passport he shall be punishable with
 imprisonment which shall not be less than 2
 years may also be extended to 8 years with
 fine. (6) Section 14 (C) deals with 'Penalty for
abatement'. It means whoever abets any
offence under the Act also be made punishable
with the same punishment provided for the
offence abated. (7) Apart from the above , the Central
Government has also framed The Foreigners
Order, 1948, is a subordinate legislation, framed
exercising powers under section 3 of the
Foreigners Act, 1946. Section 7 of the said
Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1948 deals with
Restrictions of Sojourn in India, which
specifically mandates that; (i) Every foreigner who enters India on any
authority or Visa and Passport, he shall also
obtain from the Registration Officer in
accordance with Rule 6 of the Registration of
Foreigners Rules, 193,9 a permit indicating the
period for which he would remain in India. In
such an eventuality registering authority can
restrict the stay at any place specified in the
Visa. (ii) If he has no Passport or Visa, he has
to obtain a permit indicating the period during 24 which he is authorized to remain in India from
 the Registration Officer. (iii) He shall not visit any other place or
 places unless such Visa or permit prescribes and
 further that before the expiry of the period, he
 shall leave India. Under Rule 6 of the said Rules, it is also
 clear that every foreigner entering India shall
 submit a report submitting his address in India
 and other particulars in a specified Form A. Rule
 9 also speaks about proof of identity and Rule 8
 speaks about the validity of the Certificate of
 registration. 24. The Competent Authorities under various

enactments, Rules and Orders (like Police, Customs

Officers, Immigration Officer, FRRO, FRO and other are

entrusted with the responsibility of identifying the persons

who are not citizens of India, who have entered into India

without any Passport or Visa, or even if they have entered

into Indian Territory with valid Visa and Passport or stayed

in the country with any license or permission from the 25 competent authority and the same has been expired and in

spite of that they are staying in India. 25. Apart from the above, the Competent

Authorities under Order 2 of the Foreigners (Report to

Police) Order 2001, mandates that - "Where any person

who has reason to believe that a foreigner has entered

India without any valid documents or is staying in the

country beyond the authorized period of his stay,

accommodates such foreigner in a premises, occupied

owned or controlled by him, for whatever purpose, it shall

be the duty of such person to inform the same to the

nearest police station within 24 hours about the presence

of such foreigner. Therefore, various Acts and the Rules

as noticed supra, empowers any person who is having

responsibility as a citizen of this country can bring it to the

notice of the competent authority about such illegal

migrants, or any foreigner who is staying in India beyond

the period of license or permit so as to take appropriate 26 action in this regard, and to deport such persons to their

respective countries. 26. In the above said context it is worth to mention

here that, Sri C. Shashikantha, learned Addl. Solicitor

General of India has furnished a letter addressed by the

Joint Secretary to Government of India to all the Principal

Secretaries of Home Departments of the States, in No

24013/29/Mis./2017-CSR.III(i) Dated 8th August 2017, in

which strict directions have been issued to the concerned

authorities Stating that - "It is essential to identify illegal
 migrants/person and also keep watch on their
 activities for preventing any untoward incident
 that can take place, All States/Union
 Territories, Administrations are advised to
 sensitize all the law enforcement and
 intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in
 identifying the illegal migrants and initiate the
 deportation process expeditiously and without
 delay". 27. In another letter issued by the Central

Government to the State Governments through Chief

Secretaries issued in No 25022/63/2017-F.IV dated 28th

February 2018, requesting to take appropriate prompt

expeditious steps for identification of illegal migrants,

regarding their restriction to specified locations as per the

provisions of law, capturing their biographic and biometric

particulars, cancellation of fake Indian Documents, and for

legal proceedings including initiation of deportation

proceedings as per provisions of law. Particulars of those

illegal migrants who have wrongfully obtained Aadhaar

Cards are directed to be shared with UIDAI for appropriate

legal action. 28. In the above context it is also worth to mention

here a decision of this Court reported in ILR 2004 KAR

4603 between El Mustafa El Fathi and State Of

Karnataka, wherein this court has observed on facts and

law that - " The judges who deal with the offences under

the Foreigners Act are justified in giving direction to the 28 State and concerned authorities to take appropriate steps

to deport the accused (foreigner) after serving sentence."

The relevant Para is extracted hereunder: 29. Therefore, in case of a Foreign National (not a

citizen of India) entering into the Indian Territory without

any Passport or Visa or any permit under the prevalent

Indian laws or if he continues in the country even after the

lapse of the period prescribed in such Visa or permit has

to be considered an illegal migrant and he has to be

deported to his country as expeditiously as possible, i.e.,

immediately after detection and identification of such

Foreign Nationals, but strictly in accordance with the laws

of India. 30. At the time of detection and identification as

noted in the first point, the competent authorities and

officers under various enactments and rules as noted

above, like police or Vigilance departments, they may also

find that apart from committing the offences under the Passport Act or under the Foreigners Act , such illegal 30 migrants also committed various other offences under

various provisions of Indian Penal laws. In such an

eventuality, what has to be done by the authorities, also

requires to be taken note of. 31. It Goes without saying that an Accused, who has

violated any of the penal laws of the country shall be

treated on par with the other accused who have violated

the same laws and stand on the similar footing. The same

procedure has to be adopted by the authorities, with

reference to Registration, investigation and report to the

Courts, and also inquiry and trial before the competent

court of law. Before adverting to this aspect further, it is

just and necessary to bear in mind, as to how

determination of nationality of a person can be done

before he being deported to his country. 32. The Foreigners Act, 1946 is the present parent

enactment which also says that how the determination of 31 nationality has to be done. Section 8 of the said

enactment is the relevant provision which reads as follows: 33. From reading of the above said provision, it is

clear that if a question arises for consideration in respect

of a particular person as to which nation he belongs to or

whether a citizen of India, the same has to be determined

as a condition precedent before his deportation from India.

The proviso also clearly discloses that where the foreigner

has acquired the nationality of Indian country by birth, he

shall, except where the Central Government so directs

either generally or in a particular case, he is deemed to

retain that nationality unless he proves to the satisfaction

of the said authority that he has subsequently acquired by 33 naturalization or otherwise some other nationality and still

recognized as entitled to protection by the Government of

the country, whose nationality he has so acquired. Sub

clause (2) also makes it abundantly clear that a decision as

to nationality given under sub-section (1) shall be final and

shall not be called in question in any court. However, the

Central Government has the powers to revise any such

decision. 34. Section 9 of the said Act deals with 'Burden of

proof' on whom to prove that aspect is also predominantly

explained. This provision meticulously casts the burden on

the persons who claim that they are Indian citizen and is

not a foreign national or an illegal migrant. Section 9 reads as follows: 35. From reading the above said provisions, it is

clear that if a question arises with reference to the Act,

whether any person is or is not a foreigner of a particular

class or description, the onus of proving such person is not

a foreigner or is not a foreigner of such particular class or

description, as the case may be shall not withstanding

anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 lie

upon such person. Therefore, it is the reverse burden cast

upon the person who claims that he is not a foreigner or

he is not a foreigner of a particular class or description

particularly when he claims that he is the citizen of the

country of India. That presumption will always be

continued till he rebuts the presumption in accordance with

the recognized principles of criminal jurisprudence of our 35 Country. This presumption runs virtually Contrary to the

general principles that the proof to be given by the

prosecution. 36. In this context, it is also worth to refer the

Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964. In pursuance of the

powers of the Central Government, on the basis of the

parent Act, i.e., Foreigners Act, 1964 , the Tribunals have

to be constituted by the Central Government for

determination of the nationality of any person whose

nationality is in dispute or questioned. It is to be taken

note of that, the Competent Authority referred to in sub

clause (2) of schedule to the Citizenship (Registration of

Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards), Rules 2003,

makes it abundantly clear that the Tribunals constituted

under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964, the Tribunal

has got absolute power for the purpose of deciding the

nationality of a person which calls for consideration before

such Tribunal. As per Order 2(a) of the said Foreigners

(Tribunals) Order, 1964, "the Central Government or the 36 State Government or the Union Territory Administration or

the District Collector or the District Magistrate may" by

order refer a question as to whether a person is not a

foreigner within the meaning of Foreigners Act, 1946 , to

the Tribunal constituted for the said purpose. After

following the procedure as contemplated under Rule 3 of

the said order, the Tribunal has to decide the nationality of

the said person. Rule 4, the power of the Tribunals is also

explained stating that the Tribunal shall have the powers

of the Civil Court while trying the suit under the Code of

Civil Procedure for the purpose of determining the

nationality of a particular person. Constitution of the

Tribunal is also explained in Rule 2 itself. 37. Therefore, it is clear that the Tribunals are the

competent authority in order to determine the nationality

of a person. In this context, it is worth to refer a decision

of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2019) 6 SCC 604

between Abdul Kuddus and Union of India and Others, 37 wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has made an observation

that - para (2) to Para 3 of the Schedule to the 2003
Rules. Further, the opinion formed by the
Foreigners Tribunal being an executive order
would not operate as res-judicata. It is
highlighted that in some cases, persons who
have been declared to be a Foreigner under
the Foreigners Act have been included in the
draft National Register of Citizens for the State
of Assam, while in others siblings and close
blood relations of such persons have been
named in the draft National Register of
Citizens. It is averred that in these cases of
contradictions, an aggrieved person should be
entitled to take recourse to Para 8 of the
schedule to the 2003 Rules. 22. We have examined the
contentions and have no hesitation in holding
that they have no force. The Foreigners Act
and the Citizenship Act including the Rules
framed under the two Acts have to be read
harmoniously as both the Acts are inter-related
and sister enactments. Pertinently, the Rules
framed under the Citizenship Act are
subordinate legislation. The expression 39 Competent Authority used in sub-para (2) to
Para 3 of the Schedule to the 2003 Rules
would obviously and without a doubt has
reference to the duly constituted authority
under the Foreigners Act . Indeed, the learned
counsel for the appellants did not make any
attempt to point out and highlight that there
could be any other authority covered by the
expression "Competent Authority" or which
would qualify and can be treated as a
Competent Authority referred to in sub-para
(2) to Para 3 of the Schedule, albeit in a
different context as a Competent Authority that
makes reference to the Tribunal in terms of
Para 3. On receipt of such reference, the
Tribunal has to submit its opinion/decision,
which opinion/decision in terms of the
Explanation to Section 6-A of the Citizenship
Act is final and binding. Decisions of the
Tribunal have been given primacy. Thus, the
Competent Authority referred to in sub-para
(2) to Para 3 of the schedule would be, without
a doubt, the Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners Act i.e., the 1964 Order." 38. If the above said two paragraphs are

understood meaningfully in consonance with the Citizenship Act and the Foreigners Act, 1946 , it is clear

that the decisions of the Tribunal have to be given

primacy. The expression Competent Authority used in sub

para (2) to Para (3) of the Schedule to the 2003 Rules

noted above would obviously and without a doubt has

reference to the duly constituted authority (Tribunal) under

the Foreigners Act and there is no other authority

competent to decide this particular issue of determining

the nationality of a person. Therefore, it is clear that the

Competent Authority has got absolute power to determine

the nationality of a person. The expression Competent

Authority as is used in the enactments noted above, that

makes only reference to the tribunal in terms of para 3 and

also the only authority which has empowered to determine

the nationality of a person. Therefore, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has with all clarity and certainty said that the opinion

of the Tribunal is final and binding and the decision of the 41 Tribunal has to be given the primacy over all other

proceedings if any. The Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners Act i.e., 1964 order is the ultimate authority to

determine the nationality of a person. 39. In the above said background, it is made clear

that even before the Tribunal and also before any court of

law, if any question arises with regard to the nationality of

a person particularly when the violation of section 14 , 14A , 14B offences under the Foreigners Act , are alleged, it is

the burden on the person who claims that he is not a

foreign national and he has to prove the same before the

court of law. But, ultimately even for any reason, when

courts may tentatively come to the conclusion that he

rebutted the presumption, but still the other authorities as

noted in the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 u/s.2 , can

refer the question as to whether a person is not a foreigner

within the meaning of Foreigners Act, 1946 to the Tribunal

constituted for the purpose of the same. 42 40. The Foreigners (Tribunals) Order has been

subjected to amendment in the year 2019. By way of an

amendment the State Government or the Union Territory

or the District Collector or the District Magistrate can refer

the matter to the Tribunal for determination with reference

to the nationality of any person. Therefore, from reading

the above said provision, it is abundantly clear that if any

doubt arises with regard to the nationality of a person,

irrespective of any opinion expressed by any of the

authorities or courts, still the authorities mentioned in Rule

2 of the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964, can make a

reference to the Tribunal, and the decision of the Tribunal

is final and binding on the parties unless the said Order is

set aside in any appeal or re-considered by the Central

Government. 41. In the above said backdrop, as I have already

referred to in the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court

reported in (2007) 1 SCC 174 between Sarbananda 43 Sonowal and Union of India, on this point, it is just and

necessary to re-look into the observations that - 42. Under the above said provisions of law, the

determination of the nationality of a person has to be

decided by the Competent Authority i.e., the duly

Constituted Tribunals only, and the same is binding on the 44 parties unless the same is set aside or reviewed by

competent constitutional court or Central Government. 43. PROCEDURE DURING INVESTIGATION,
INQUIRY AND TRIAL: 44. It goes without saying that if an accused, a

foreign national who is not a citizen of India, violated not

only the provisions under Foreigners Act , but also any of

the penal laws of the country, shall be treated on par with

other accused. So far as the procedural aspects are

concerned, the same procedure requires to be adopted by

the authorities with reference to Registration,

investigation, inquiry and trial before the competent

courts of law. 45. It is worth to refer here, the Foreigners Act ,

which is enacted in the year 1946 and the same is enacted

in addition to Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 , the Indian Passports Act, 1920 and other enactments for the

time being in force govern the foreign nationals.

Therefore, all the other enactments are also applicable

particularly, Passports Act and other enactments which are

referable to the Foreigners in order to detect the offence

committed by them, apart from the offences committed

under the Foreigners Act . 46. In fact, I have carefully examined the Foreigners

Act, 1946 and other enactments as noted above, wherein,

there is no provision provided for application of a separate

procedure by the courts while dealing with such offenders

who have committed the offences under the Foreigners Act and other penal laws of the country. Therefore, unless a

separate procedure is contemplated or the application of

general law like, Code of Criminal Procedure is barred, the

common Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, is with equal

force applicable for the purpose of dealing with such

offenders particularly by the Investigating agencies and

the criminal courts. Section 5 of Cr.PC. also says that - 47. Therefore, it goes without saying that if there

is any special law like Foreigners Act , if it does not provide 47 any special procedure for the purpose of conducting

investigation, inquiry and trial. In such an eventuality, the Code of Criminal Procedure is applicable. 48. In this background, the court has to examine

the above said aspects with reference to Registration,

investigation, inquiry and trial by the courts. 49. As narrated in the earlier part of this Judgment,

the Central Government vide its letters dated 8.8.2017 and

28.2.2018 addressed to the Chief Secretaries to all the

State Governments/Union Territory Administrations, have

brought it to the notice that the authorities should detect

and identify the foreign nationals in the country who have

violated the Passport Act or Foreigners Act and to deal with

them as expeditiously as possible to bring them to the

jurisdiction of the courts and also to take appropriate steps

for their deportation expeditiously without any delay.

Therefore, it is clear that the police and other Competent

Authorities can register a criminal case against such 48 foreign nationals for the offences alleged to have been

committed by them and register case and investigate and

file appropriate report to the competent Court. All the

provisions of Cr.P.C are ipso facto applicable to those

foreign nationals also. 50. So far as this particular case is concerned,

without over burdening this judgment, I am mainly

concerned with the provisions of bail as to whether the

foreign nationals are also entitled for the remedies as

contemplated under the provisions of Cr.P.C. 51. It is also worth to note here that in none of the

above said special enactments including the Foreigners

Act, 1946 , there is no bar for the courts exercising the

powers under Chapter 33 of Cr.P.C particularly with

reference to the provisions of Sections 436 to 439 of

Cr.P.C. In the absence of any bar in the special

enactment, the said provisions are equally applicable to 49 the foreign nationals so far as the bail provisions are

concerned. 52. Once a case is registered when it is said that

the provisions of bail is also applicable, but the question

arises as to what is the procedure that should be followed

at the time of granting or refusing bail to such persons

under the provisions of Sections 436 to 439 of Cr.P.C. It is

quiet natural that under the Foreigners Act, 1946 , the

foreigners who have violated the provisions of the said Act,

they are not supposed to wonder around the country freely

as if they are the citizens of the country, even if bail is

granted to such persons. The bail cannot be treated as an

authority or license to move around the country as if a

legal document by the competent authorities. Therefore,

the courts, without hearing the Competent Authorities, and

the State, and without imposing necessary conditions, no

such bails can be granted to such person to move freely

anywhere in India even for a day without Passport or Visa,

as he is presumed to be an illegal migrant. Therefore, it 50 goes without saying that, an under-trial prisoner even

during the investigation, inquiry and trial, whether he

should be given a free hand to move anywhere as he likes,

or his movements have to be restricted, or he has to be

detained anywhere else is the question i.e., to be

considered by the Courts. 53. Of course, in the above said context, as noted

above, Section 9 of the Foreigners Act 'Burden of Proof'

will come into play, which raises a presumption that if in

any case not falling u/s.8 , any question arises with

reference to this Act or any Order made or direction given

thereunder whether any person is or is not a foreigner of a

particular class or description as the case may be, shall

notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence

Act, 1872 , lie upon such person to show to the authorities

or Court, that he is not a foreign national i.e., he was

authorized to remain in Indian territory. 51 54. In this Context section 3 of the Foreigners Act

1946 also play a dominant role, which entrusted certain

powers to the competent authorities. The said provision

reads as follows. [(cc) shall, if he has been required by
order under this section not to remain in India,
meet from any resources at his disposal the
cost of his removal from India and of his
maintenance therein pending such removal;] (d) shall remove himself to, and remain
in, such area in [India] as may be prescribed; (e) shall comply with such conditions as
may be prescribed or specified-- (i) requiring him to reside in a particular
place; (ii) imposing any restrictions on his
movements; (iii) requiring him to furnish such proof
of his identity and to report such particulars to 53 such authority in such manner and at such
time and place as may be prescribed or
specified; (iv) requiring him to allow his
photograph and finger impressions to be taken
and to furnish specimens of his handwriting
and signature to such authority and at such
time and place as may be prescribed or
specified; (v) requiring him to submit himself to
such medical examination by such authority
and at such time and place as may be
prescribed or specified; (vi) prohibiting him from association
with persons of a prescribed or specified
description; (vii) prohibiting him from engaging in
activities of a prescribed or specified
description; (viii) prohibiting him from using or
possessing prescribed or specified articles; 54 (ix) otherwise regulating his conduct in
any such particular as may be prescribed or
specified; (f) shall enter into a bond with or
without sureties for the due observance of, or
as an alternative to the enforcement of, any or
all prescribed or specified restrictions or
conditions; (g) shall be arrested and detained or
confined; and may make provision for any
matter which is to be or may be prescribed and
for such incidental and supplementary matters
as may, in the opinion of the Central
Government, be expedient or necessary for
giving effect to this Act. (3) Any authority prescribed in this
behalf may with respect to any particular
foreigner make orders under clause (e) or
clause (f) of sub-section (2). 3A. Power to exempt citizens of
Commonwealth Countries and other persons
from application of Act in certain cases.-- 55 (1) The Central Government may, by
 order, declare that all or any of the provisions
 of this Act or of any order made there under
 shall not apply, or shall apply only in such
 circumstances or with such exceptions or
 modifications or subject to such conditions as
 may be specified in the order, to or in relation
 to-- (a) the citizens of any such
 Commonwealth Country as may be so
 specified; or (b) any other individual foreigner or
 class or description of foreigner. (2) A copy of every order made under
 this section shall be placed on the table of both
 Houses of Parliament as soon as may be after
 it is made. " 55. On meticulous reading and meaningful

understanding of the above said provisions, it clears out

the doubt that, a foreigner who is presumed to be an

illegal migrant cannot remain in India or wonder or move

around freely, unless and until he is authorized or 56 permitted by the Competent Authorities to remain in India

with certain conditions regulating his conduct with

specifications as provided u/s.3 (2) (a) to (g) of the Foreigners Act . This provision empowers the competent

authorities for any valid reasons to exercise their powers

under section 3(2) (a) to (e), restricting the movements of

a foreigner, with specifications. In that eventuality

Particularly under Section 3(2)(f) such person shall enter

into a bond with or without sureties for the due observance

of, or as an alternative to the enforcement of, any or all

prescribed or specified restrictions or conditions; noted at

sub clause 3(2)(a) to (e). In fact section 3(2) (g) empowers the competent authority that, they can arrest

and detain or confine such persons, if no license or

permission granted under section 3(a) to (e) and also

make a provision for any matter which is to be or may be

prescribed and for such incidental and supplementary

matters as may be, in the opinion of the Central 57 Government, be expedient or necessary for giving effect to

this Act. 56. Therefore, subject to the above said conditions,

the court has to examine while granting or refusing bail as

to whether the said person has to be detained anywhere

else other than regular jails. It goes without saying that,

after registration of a criminal case, during investigation,

inquiry and trial, the accused persons are entitled to make

application for grant of bail as a matter of right. The court

has to examine depending upon the facts and

circumstances of the case applying the general guidelines

for grant of bail and if for any reason, the court comes to

the conclusion that the accused is entitled to be released

on bail, the court has to examine whether the said person

has to be kept in any detention centers during the

pendency of investigation, inquiry or trial, even after

acquittal or conviction of the said person. 58 57. As noted above, granting bail, should not be

understood that it amounts ratifying or legalizing their

illegal stay in the country. Therefore, the courts have to

pass an order only after hearing the Competent Authorities

(State)who are empowered to pass appropriate orders

u/s.3 (2) of the Foreigners Act to ascertain whether the

competent authority has got any grievance to keep the

accused persons anywhere else other than the jails till the

investigation, inquiry or trial is concluded. Further, the

Competent Authorities can put any conditions, to them and

on taking bond with or without surety for the due

observance of conditions, they can be released on bail.

Otherwise, if the accused persons have to be released on

bail, the Central Government or the State Government as

the case may be, have to make necessary arrangements to

detain them in separate detention centers, till they are

deported to their countries. This does not mean to say

that the courts have no power to keep those persons in jail 59 itself. It all depends upon the facts and circumstances of

each case. 58. If the offences are committed apart from the

Foreigners Act and Passports Act, and under any other

penal laws, for the time being in force, where serious

allegations are made, having committed serious heinous

offences and if the court on considering the gravity of the

offence, nature of allegations made against them and in

respect of that if it comes to the conclusion that even for

such serious offence, apart from the Foreigners Act and

Passports Act, if the court inclines to grant bail, then the

court can definitely order to keep them in the jail itself

because they should also be treated on par with the other

accused persons who have committed similar offences

under various other penal laws of the country. If the

offence committed either under the Passports Act or the Foreigners Act , and prima facie found that they are the

foreign nationals and no other offences under any other

penal laws of the country has been committed, in such an 60 eventuality, they should be treated as foreign nationals

and till they are deported, normally, they should not be

detained in the prison if bail is granted, the court has to

direct them to be detained in the separate Detention

Centre established by the Central Government or the State

Government as the case may be. If for any reason they

are not entitle for bail they can be ordered to be kept in

regular jails. 59. During the course of inquiry and trial, if the

court finds that the Competent Authorities while filing the

charge sheet have not complied with the legal

requirements, if for any reason, the court cannot take

cognizance of any offence alleged by the competent

authorities under the various enactments, in such an

eventuality, the Competent Authorities still have got power

to refer the question of nationality of such person for

determination as per the procedure noted above, while

dealing with the determination of the question of

nationality of alleged foreign national and to take 61 appropriate orders from the Tribunal constituted under the

Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964. The appropriate

Governments shall also take steps to deport if they are

determined as foreign nationals. 60. For any reason, the proceedings before the

criminal court or before any court, where the proceedings

are initiated against a foreign national under the Foreigners Act or under any other penal laws, which raises

the question of nationality, is quashed by the competent

court like High Court or Supreme Court u/s.482 of Cr.P.C.

even in such an eventuality also, as noted above, the

Competent Authorities as per the Foreigners (Tribunals)

Order, 1964, can still refer the question as to whether a

person is not a foreigner within the meaning of the Foreigners Act, 1946 , to a Tribunal constituted for the

purpose of the same. If the courts are reluctant to grant

bail for any reason, though the offences alleged only falls

under the Foreigners Act , or under the Passports Act , only

and the determination of his nationality is pending or it is 62 to be considered by such court, in such an eventuality

also, the court can order to keep them in regular jails. 61. It is obvious that whether the accused is

enlarged on bail or kept in jail or in the Detention Center is

entitled to be tried before the court in accordance with law

for the alleged offences committed by him. 62. Further, the court at the time of framing of

charges, discharges or releases the accused and close or

drop the proceedings for any technical reasons and if the

Competent Authorities who have filed the charge sheet to

the concerned court, if they are of the opinion that the

accused person is still a foreign national and he is not an

Indian citizen, then also they can invoke the provision of section 3 of the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 for

referring the said question as to whether such person is

not a foreigner for the purpose of taking appropriate steps

to deport such person. Such remedy is not barred to the

competent authorities. 63. Section 3A of the Foreigners Act, 1946, also

empowers the Central Government to exempt any person

from the purview of the Act and declare such persons

legality in staying in the country. Therefore, the

authorities taking action against such person under the Foreigners Act shall also bear in mind the above

provisions, and ascertain whether such person fall within

the category as per Section 3A of the Foreigners

(Tribunals) Order, 1964. 64. (D) PROCEDURE AFTER TRIAL [ACQUITTAL

OR CONVICTION TILL DEPORTATION OF SUCH

FOREIGN NATIONAL TO HIS COUNTRY: 65. The learned Addl. Solicitor General of India Sri

Shashikantha has produced document No.3 before the

court in No.25022/19/2014.F1, dated 29.04.2014 of

Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs (Foreigners

Division) addressed to the Principal Secretary (Home) of all

State Governments/Union Territory/ Administrations with

regard to Consolidated instructions regarding procedure to

be followed for deportation/repatriation of a foreign

national. 66. On careful perusal of the same, it is observed

that the Central Government has delegated its power to

State Governments and other competent authorities

u/s.3(2)(c) and 3(2)(e) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 for the

purpose of taking appropriate action whenever a case has

been registered against a foreign national vide its

Notification, New Dellhi-2 dated 19th April, 1958 in

S.O.Nos.590 and 591 (F.No.4/3/56-(I)F.I.) and

(F.No.4/3/56-(II)F.I.) respectively. By virtue of the said

powers there is a direction issued to the Competent

Authorities like Police, Foreigner Regional Registration

Officer (FRRO)/FRO to examine the valid travel document

of a foreigner to ascertain whether he is an illegal migrant

and to take appropriate action to prosecute him and to

take appropriate action to deport him from the country as

early as possible. In the said letter, it is directed that all

the State Governments and the Competent Authorities

were requested to ensure that such process has to be

initiated from the date of registration of a case itself and if 66 the trial of the accused is on and if the accused is

convicted, action should be taken much before the actual

date of completion of the sentence so that the travel

document of the foreigner is made available by the

Embassy/High Commission concerned well before he/she

completes the sentence. The said letter also directs that,

the concerned authorities may also impose restriction on

the foreigner on the completion of their jail terms,

restricting the movements of those persons or they should

be kept in Detention Centre/Holding Centre/Camp to

ensure their availability for expeditious deportation or

repatriation to their country. There is also a direction in

the said letter that the respective Governments were also

advised to ensure all foreign nationals who have completed

their sentence but whose deportation or repatriation is

awaited due to non-confirmation of nationality, non-issue

of travel documents and/or delay in arranging air tickets

by the foreigner concerned or by the Mission of the country

concerned for deportation, they may be released from jail 67 but they shall be kept at appropriate places or in

detention centers. Such Detention Centers as many

required have to be established which are having basic

facilities of Water, Electricity with hygiene location and

appropriate security. 67. The learned ASGI also produced another letter

No.25022/45/2019-F.1 dated 1.7.2019 from Government

of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, addressed to the

Principal Secretary (Home) of all the State Governments/

Union Territory Administrations, and DGPs. of all the

States and to the FRROs. Requesting them to ensure that

this process is initiated immediately on arrest of the

foreigner or on filing of FIR, so that the process of

nationality verification is completed by that time, the travel

document of the foreigner is made available by the

Embassy/High Commission concerned, so that the said

person can be deported immediately after the completion

of the trial and serving sentence if any. 68 68. Therefore, it goes without saying that

immediately after the registration of the case, the

Competent Authorities having found or suspected that the

person involved in the said case is a foreign national, who

has according to them has no right to be in India or

continued to be in India, but for the proceedings against

him, before the court of law or Tribunal, in such an

eventuality, all necessary steps to be taken subject to the

orders of the competent court to detain them in a

Detention Center till they are deported to their country. 69. The learned Additional Advocate General has

produced a letter dated 09.01.2019 in No.25022/32/2014-

F.I. (VOL.II) of Government of India, Ministry of Home

Affairs addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary (Home)

and Principal Secretary (Home) of all the State

Governments/Union Territory Administrations, with

reference to establishment of Model Detention

Center/Holding Centre/Camp Manual. The document

reveal that, the Central Government, has drafted detention 69 centers manual, as directed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

their orders dated 12.9.2018 and 20.9.2018 in IA

No.105821/2018 in WP (Civil) No.406/2013 filed by

Collaborative Network for Research and Capacity Building,

Guwahati, for the purpose of setting up of a Detention

Center/Holding Centre/Camps in various States and Union

Territories and to prepare a manual for Detention Centers. 70. It is also stated in the said letter that the

Central Government has prepared a draft of Model

Detention Centre for the purpose of keeping such illegal

migrants or the accused persons in connection with the

above said enactments. Therefore, from the above said

directions, the Detention Centers have to be established

for the purpose of keeping the accused persons in such

Detention Centers till their deportation takes place from

the Indian country. 71. In addition to the above, the learned Addl.

Solicitor General of India has also produced the approved, 70 Model Detention Centre/Holing Centre/Manual, 2019. The

said document reveals that, it contained all the details in

four chapters: 72. According to the said manual, the powers of the

Central Government, u/s.3(2)(c) and 3(2)(e) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 , have been delegated to the State

Government and Union Territory Administrations for

establishment of Detention Centers and how the Detention 71 Center should be and what are the facilities that should be

provided in the Detention Centers. 73. On careful perusal of this manual, the Central

Government has directed the State Governments and

Union Territories to provide all necessary facilities for the

inmates to maintain standards of living in consonance with

human dignity and all basic amenities like electricity,

drinking water (including water coolers), hygiene,

accommodation with beds, sufficient toilets/baths with

provision of running water, communication facilities,

provision for kitchen etc., shall be provided. There should

be proper drainage and sewage facilities. All the

accommodations should provide basic requirements of

healthy living. It is also directed that CC TV cameras shall

be installed at various centers for monitoring movements

of detainees, apart from providing all other basic

necessities. 74. Therefore, it is clear from the above aspects

that, the Central Government on the directions of the

Hon'ble Apex Court has taken steps and directed the State

Governments to establish the Detention Centers as and

when necessary and at the places where it is necessary for

the purpose of detaining the foreign nationals till their case

is decided by the court or if they are convicted till they

serve the sentence and deported to their country. 75. This court in order to ascertain the steps taken

by the State Government in pursuance of the said

directions issued by the Central Government on various

occasions called for information from the Competent

Authorities to file their necessary affidavits regarding steps

taken by them to establish the Detention Centers in

Bengaluru and other various places in the State. 76. In pursuance of the directions issued by this

Court, a memo was filed by the Additional Advocate

General(AAG) with a document dated 31.10.2019 stating 73 that, the Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka in a

meeting with Principal Secretary, Social Welfare

Department and Additional Commissioner of Police,

Intelligence and others taken a decision with regard to

establishment of foreigners Detention Center at Bengaluru

and also other places in the State. They have filed the

resolution dated 21.10.2019 wherein the Competent

Authorities have taken a decision to establish Detention

Centers with standard operating procedure. 77. On 18.11.2019, an affidavit was filed by one

Mr. K. Nanjundegowda, Police Officer on the query raised

by this court stating that, the Government has established

a temporary Detention Centre, presently for the purpose

of keeping the foreign nationals convicted and again whose

cases are pending, providing all facilities, situated near

Sarjapur Police Station within the jurisdiction of Sarjapur

Police Station which is having twelve two bed room

houses, fitted with CCTVs, and it is ready for occupation of

the inmates. 78. Dr.Rajanish Goel, Additional Chief Secretary to

Government of Karnataka has also filed a detail affidavit

dated 8.11.2019, wherein he has categorically stated that

in pursuance of the directions issued by this court vide

order dated 5.11.2019 to furnish the information about the

establishment of Foreigners Detention Centre within the

state of Karnataka as per the empowerment given to the

State by the Central Government. It is submitted that the

Central Government has circulated the model Detention

Centre/Holding Centre/Camp manual prepared in

pursuance of the directions of the Hon'ble Apex Court

order dated 12.9.2018 and 20.09.2019 on IA

No.105821/2018 in Writ Petition (Civil) No.406/2013.

According to those directions, the State Government has

also prepared Standard Operating Procedure ('SOP' for

short) and Detention Centers will be established and

maintained as per the guidelines contained in the SOP. It

is also stated that the State Government has identified a

place and building, called Government Pre-Metric Boys 75 Hostel, Bengaluru, which is situated at Sondekoppa

Village, near Tavarekere, Bangalore North, which cater the

needs of all the foreign nationals to be detected and

detained till their deportation. He has also produced the

SOP and also the photographs of the Detention Center and

it appears the same is ready for its inauguration. 79. Mr. Goel has also filed another affidavit on

26.11.2019 stating that the State Government has taken

steps to establish 35 temporary Detention Centers in

almost all the districts temporarily including Bengaluru City

and they are all equipped with basic facilities such as Bed

rooms, Bath rooms, water and electricity, drinking water

facility, medical facility, food and sufficient police

protection as per the requirement and directions of the

Central Government and the Hon'ble Apex court. The said

affidavit is also annexed with a document which shows

that in all the District Headquarters the Detention Centers

are identified and they are established. 76 80. On 11.12.2019, the Additional Advocate General

has also filed a memo along with certain documents,

wherein it is specifically stated that the Department of

'Women and Child Development' have also stated that

they have taken special care and protection to the children

and women who are or who may be kept in Detention

Centers and they have established Child Welfare

Committees throughout the State and the Committees are

taking all the responsibilities of food, clothing, shelter,

education, Vocational training, Recreation facilities etc., as

per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)

Model Rules, 2016. Further, the committee will also take

appropriate action to repatriate the children belonging to

other Districts, States or country by following all necessary

procedure. It is clarified that the committee only can take

appropriate steps so far as the juveniles and minors who

are not implicated in any crime born to foreigners. 81. Therefore, from the above said submissions and

the affidavits filed before the court, it is clear that the 77 State Government has also taken appropriate steps for the

purpose of establishing as many Detention Centers and

Holding Centre/Camps as per the model manual issued by

the Central Government. 82. Under the above said facts and circumstances of

the case, it is clear that as per the directions issued by the

courts on various dates for establishment of Detention

Centers in almost all the districts including Bengaluru City

said to have been accomplished on the basis of the

affidavits filed before the court by the responsible officers

of the State. However, it is made clear that it is an endless

process, the government has to take necessary steps as

and when need arises to establish detention centers to

cater the needs, with all basic necessities. 83. In view of the above, it can be said that

whether the accused is released on bail or acquitted, or his

nationality is questioned and not yet determined, it is the

Competent Authorities who have to take a decision to keep 78 him in the Detention Centre or he should be released by

taking bond with or without sureties specifying the

conditions for his stay in any particular place as per Section 3(2)(a) to (f) of the Foreigners Act . If the accused

person is detained in the jail by the court, in such an

eventuality, the court has to examine the situation

whether he should be kept in jail or in the Detention

Centre depending upon the facts and circumstances of

each case and the heinous nature of offence committed by

him other than the offences under the Foreigners Act and

Passports Act etc., and further if the persons are acquitted

even then the Competent Authorities have got any doubt

with regard to the nationality of such person, can file

appropriate application before the Tribunal constituted

under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 and also

keep such person in the Detention Centre till the

deportation takes place by the Competent Authority.

Further, if the accused is ordered to kept in regular jail

either rejecting the bail or is convicted and is sentenced to 79 undergo imprisonment, appropriate Government have to

take or initiate action from the date of registration of the

FIR and keep the deportation papers ready to deport the

said person immediately after the sentence is completely

undergone by such person and thereafter, immediately,

deport such person to their mother country. 84. In this context, it is also just and necessary for

this court to guide the concerned as to how the courts

have to deal with the foreigners if the offence is committed

and they are before the court. 85. Of course, this court in a decision reported in

ILR 2016 KAR 1232 between Christian Chidieere

Chukwu and The State of Karnataka by K.R. Puram

Police Station, Bengaluru and another wherein this

court has held that - "Normally, while considering a bail
 application, Criminal Courts will see forum of
 trial and whether they are punishable with death
 or imprisonment for life. But in cases of over 80 stay of a foreign national in India, it amounts to
 illegal stay till he/she is deported and if he/she
 is released and trial takes a lot of time, on the
 basis of the order of bail, he/she will be allowed
 to stay in India till the conclusion of the trial and
 this would be contrary to the provisions of Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946" 86. In the above cited case, the court has also

directed that if a foreign national is involved in any offence

including the Foreigners Act , the concerned police

department and other Foreign Regional Registration Officer

have to share their respective data; there should be

periodical meeting to share the opinion in order to monitor

such persons. 87. The court also observed that in the event of

filing charge sheet for the offence under the Foreigners Act or any other Act or penal provision or local laws, the court

has to take up such accused on trial on top priority and

dispose of the said case as expeditiously as possible. The

Public Prosecutors should also bring it to the notice of the

court and request the court to take up the case on priority

and examine all relevant witnesses without undue delay

and steps to be taken to deport the said person after the

sentence being undergone. 88. The court also observed that while convicting

the accused persons in such cases and while imposing

sentence, a positive attempt must be made by the judges

of the criminal court by writing judgments preferably in

English and also recording evidence in English in order to

make them to understand the judgment. 89. Apart from the above, this court also feels it just

and necessary to direct the trial Courts to deal with the 82 matters where a foreign national is involved and alleged to

have committed the offence under the Foreigners Act and

other offences: 90. REGARDING DETENTION OF WOMEN AND

CHILDREN: 91. In this context, it is worth to be noted that in

1959, the United Nations declaration with reference to the

rights of the child was adopted by the General Assembly of

the United Nations and in Article 24 of the International

Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966. In the said

declaration, the importance of the child has been fairly

recognized and accepted by India as a party to the said

declaration the said international charters have been

ratified by the Government of India. Therefore, India has

to identify and respect and implement the rights of the

children whether they belonged to Indian country or any

country who are residing in India. 92. The women prisoners who are also to be taken

care of considering their rights and as well as vulnerability

of them and susceptible for exploitation and easily become

prey's under various unavoidable and precarious, and

peculiar circumstances in the jails or while in detention

centers. In this regard, there are various Rules under the Prisoners Act and also as well as the Prison Rules.

Presently, I am not concerned with those Prisoners Act or

Rules, which has already taken care of as to how the

women have to be treated in the jails. 93. What I would like to impress upon the

Governments is that whatever the facilities given and care

they take with reference to Women and children in the jails

on the basis of the Prisons Act and Prisons Rules and

Manuals, at least same facilities or even more facilities to

be provided depending upon the circumstances of the

situation and the nature of the persons particularly women

and children though they are kept in jails or Detention

Centers. It is just and necessary to say that in the present 87 day situation, considering the great traditions of our

country as to how we are treating, respecting and taking

care of women and children, particularly so far as the

prisoners are concerned much care has to be taken if

possible to avoid any social stigma that may be attached

to women living in prison or Detention Center, as the same

often severely affect and attach stigma upon them even

after they are released. It is also to be taken note of by

the concerned Governments that particularly when a

foreign national women is kept in Detention Center or in

jail, apart from providing basic necessities to them they

must also be provided with opportunities to have contact

with their respective counsels, embassies, through

Competent Authorities. In fact, the jail authorities who are

entrusted with the task of maintaining Detention Centers

must inform the respective consulates about the details of

their incarceration and the contact must be established

with the inmates appropriately. If necessary, the foreign

inmates must be provided with translators to help them to 88 communicate with the prison officials and other inmates

for easy understanding of the Rules and procedure and to

communicate their grievance to the Competent Authorities.

For the purpose of effective post release of the accused

and their psychological well being, it is essential for the

said persons to communicate with their family, friends

regularly by allowing the friends and family persons to the

jails and to the Detention Centers or by means of using

new technological deals by way of video conferencing for

proper communication. 94. Especially female prisoners living with their

children need more care and nourishment. The Detention

Center authorities and the jail authorities are also provide

if possible with added food provisions and medical facilities

to meet their dietary requirements. So far as the women

are concerned, as there is no necessity for this court to go

in detail because prison manual and Prisoners Act itself

takes care and to keep the women prisoners separately

not to allow them to mingle with the male prisoners and 89 various provisions have been made under several

enactments and Rules to take care of the women in the

jail. I can only remind the authorities to follow them very

meticulously. 95. If the child belonged to a foreign national and

where both the parents or one of the parent particularly

mother is in jail, then necessary steps should be taken in

lieu of the law that, the child must always enjoy all the

rights as set forth in the United Nations declaration of the

rights of the Child whether it is outside or inside the jail

without distinction or discrimination on account of race,

colour, language, origin of political or other national or

social by birth or other status. Further, the child shall

enjoy the special protection and shall be given

opportunities and facilities by law and other means to

enable it to develop physically, mentally and socially in a

healthy and normal manner with dignity. The child is also

entitled to receive education which shall be free and

compulsory at least in the elementary stages even if the 90 child happens to be in the jail or detention center along

with its mother. The concerned states while framing the

laws particularly in Detention Centers, shall respect the

right of the child, who is actually separated from one or

both the parents and the State should make arrangement

to safeguard the interest of such child. 96. In fact, there is no necessity for this court to give

a detailed separate guidelines as the subject matter

involved in this particular case, has already been dealt with

by the Hon'ble Apex Court in a decision reported in

(2007) 15 SCC 337 between R.D.Upadhyay and State

of AP and others, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court while

dealing with the matter with reference to the plight of the

under trial prisoners languishing in various jails in the

country with regard to the children in jail with their

mothers who are in jails either as under trial prisoners or

convicts. Sometimes the children, for no fault, but by

force or under such circumstances have to stay in jail with

their mother in some cases because of the tender age of 91 the child. While in other cases, it may be because there

was no one to take care of the child when the mother has

been in jail. In such circumstances, the environment is

certainly not congenial for the development of the children. 97. Taking into consideration the various enactments

particularly the Juvenile Justice Act , the Hon'ble Apex

Court has called for the opinion from all the states and also

collected research study of children, women prisoners in

jails conducted by the National Institute of Criminology

and Forensic Sciences. In the above said judgment at

paragraph 14, the Hon'ble Apex Court has in detail

extracted the salient features of the study and brought to

the notice of all the Governments in February, 2002. After

the said report being communicated to the States, the

Hon'ble Apex Court has also called for the opinion of the

various states in order to safeguard the interest of the

women and children languishing in jail. It was suggested

by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the arrest of women

suspects be made only by lady police, as such suspicion 92 itself affects the innocent children who are taken into

custody with their mother to avoid arrest of innocent. It is

also suggested, Periodic meetings should be available to

the women with the child for up-keeping of the rights of

the children. 98. The Karnataka State has also put forward its

opinion by stating that the children are allowed to live with

their mother up to the age of six years and education is

also looked after by the various NGOs, when the children

are left to be in jail. After considering the reports and as

well as the representation of the various states, the

Hon'ble Apex Court has formulated various guidelines

which in my opinion require to be extracted in this

judgment: jails that are not at all equipped to keep small
children. Women prisoners with children should
not be kept in such sub-jails, unless proper
facilities can be ensured which would make for a 100 conducive environment there, for proper
biological, psychological and social growth. 8. the stay of children in crowded barracks
amidst women convicts, under trials, offenders
relating to all types of crimes including violent
crimes is certainly harmful for the development of
their personality. Therefore, children deserve to
be separated from such environments on a
priority basis. 9. Diet: Dietary scale for institutionalized
infants/children prepared by Dr. A.M. Dwarkadas
Motiwala, MD (Paediatrics) and Fellowship in
Neonatology (USA) has been submitted by Mr.
Sanjay Parikh. The document submitted
recommends exclusive breastfeeding on the
demand of the baby day and night. If for some
reason, the mother cannot feed the baby,
undiluted fresh milk can be given to the baby. It
is emphasized that "dilution is not recommended;
especially for low socio-economic groups who are
also illiterate, ignorant, their children are already
malnourished and are prone to gastroenteritis and
other infections due to poor living conditions and 101 unhygienic food habits. Also, where the drinking
water is not safe/reliable since source of drinking
water is a question mark. Over-dilution will
provide more water than milk to the child and
hence will lead to malnutrition and infections. This
in turn will lead to growth retardation and
developmental delay both physically and
mentally." It is noted that since an average Indian
mother produces approximately 600 - 800 ml.
milk per day (depending on her own nutritional
state), the child should be provided at least 600
ml. of undiluted fresh milk over 24 hours if the
breast milk is not available. The report also refers
to the "Dietary Guidelines for Indians - A Manual," 10. Jail Manual and/or other relevant Rules,
Regulations, instructions etc. shall be suitably
amended within three months so as to comply
with the above directions. If in some jails, better
facilities are being provided, same shall continue. 11. Schemes and laws relating to welfare and
development of such children shall be
implemented in letter and spirit. State
Legislatures may consider passing of necessary
legislations, wherever necessary, having regard to
what is noticed in this judgment. 12. The State Legal Services Authorities shall take
necessary measures to periodically inspect jails to 103 monitor that the directions regarding children and
 mother are complied with in letter and spirit. 13. The Courts dealing with cases of women
 prisoners whose children are in prison with their
 mothers are directed to give priority to such cases
 and decide their cases expeditiously." 99. In view of the above said guidelines, it appears,

the Karnataka State Government has also taken various

steps in this regard. The Detention Center manual which I

have already referred to, submitted by the learned Addl.

Solicitor General of India, in Chapter 4, item No.4.30,

says that - "Adequate provision should be made for

medical attendance for the detainees. A mobile medical

dispensary may also be provided for attending to the

medical emergency 24 x 7. Posting/detailing of a staff

nurse/training of some staff for giving first aid may also be

considered. Any additional medical facilities to be provided

may be considered by the State Governments/Union

Territory Administrations concerned. Item No.4.31 says

that - Special attention may be given to the 104 women/nursing mother, transgender detainees, children

etc., Item No.4.32 says that - Crèche facilities for

children may be provided. Item No.4.33 says that -

Children lodged in the Detention Center may be provided

educational facilities by admitting them in local schools

nearby. Item No.4.34 says that - A skill centre may also

be provided within the detention centre. 100. The learned Addl. Solicitor General of India

also produced a communication letter in No.23/IMM-

1/2019(1)-III 1552 dated 9.12.2019 which is styled as

Memorandum has stated that though there is no specific

legal norms could be find in respect of looking after

children of illegally staying foreigners (in custody or in

bail). However, the court has to take into consideration

the circumstances has to pass appropriate orders. In this

background, it is just and necessary to direct the

concerned authorities that: 101. He has also produced another document No.2

about the care taken by the Central Government under the JJ Act , wherein Section 3(v) of the said Act empowers the 106 Government to take appropriate measures to take care of

the children and protection of the children by catering to

their development needs and by adopting a child friendly

approach in dealing with the matters in the best interest of

the children. 102. The rehabilitation, transfer, repatriation and

restoration of children rights have also been enumerated

under the JJ Act , u/s. 3(v) & (x) of the Act. Section 3(v) of the Act says, - The primary responsibility of care,

nature and protection of the child shall be biological family

or adoptive or foster parents, as the case may be". Section 3(x) of the Act says; there shall be no

discrimination against a child on any grounds including

sex, caste, ethnicity, place of birth, disability and equality

of access, opportunity and treatment shall be provided to

every child". 103. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of

Children) Model Rules, 2016 has also been framed under 107 the said Act, which provide detail procedures for transfer

of child, when the child is a national of another country or

the subject is raised before any Competent Authority or

court. Rule 81(1) says that - During the inquiry if it is

found that the child hails from a place outside the

jurisdiction of the JJ Board or the Child Welfare committee,

the Board or the committee shall order for transfer of the

child and send a copy of the order stating the reasons for

and circumstances of such transfer to the State

Government and District Child Protection Unit. Sub-clause

(5) of Rule 81 of the said Rules says that - Where a child is

a national of another country, the Board or the committee

shall inform the State Government immediately on the

production of the child before the Board or the Committee

which may initiate the process for repatriation of the child

immediately in consultation with the Ministry of Home

Affairs and Ministry of External affairs as the case may be.

Sub Clause (6) of Rule 81 of the said Rules says that -

During the period pending finalization of the repatriation; 108 the child shall be kept in a Child Care Institution. Sub-

clause (7) of Rule 91 of the Rules says that - The expenses

for the repatriation of the child to another country shall be

borne by the State Government concerned. 104. In the light of the above said provisions under

the JJ Act , it is worth to note here a letter in

F.NO.14051/169/2019-F-VI dated 6.12.2019 produced by

Sri. Shashikantha, the Addl. Solicitor General of India,

which indicates that, the Ministry of Home affairs also

filed an affidavit before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

in Writ Petition (Civil) No.1045/2018 between Hash

Mander and Union of India and another, which later

converted into Supreme Court Legal Services Committee

Vs. Union of India and another , by way of an affidavit

dated 29.10.2019, that the provisions under JJ Act and

Rules are equally applicable to all the children, who

deemed to be foreigners, including inter-alia the children

who are detained and also those children from outside,

who have no other person to take care of them. 109 105. From the above said aspect, it is clear that, by

establishing the Detention Centers or in the event of the

mother or father of the child who belonged to foreign

nationals or one of them belonged to foreign national and

is suspected to be an illegal migrant to India, in such an

eventuality, the procedure contemplated under the

detention manual which is in fact adopted by the

Karnataka State also as per the affidavit filed by the

Additional Secretary to the Government has to be very

strictly and meticulously followed. It is to be noted that if

the children is given to the mother who is in jail, the

Government shall make all necessary arrangements for the

said child development as per the guidelines of the

Supreme Court in Upadhyaya's case noted supra, and

also as per the provisions under the JJ Act and Rules. 106. At the cost of repetition, I may say that, a

memo filed by the Additional Advocate General for the

State of Karnataka dated 11.12.2019 before this court

clearly discloses that, the Women and Child Development 110 Department has already undertaken to provide protection

to the children as per the JJ Act and Rules. In this regard,

the department has already established Child Welfare

Committees throughout the State of Karnataka and as on

date, more than 33 Child Welfare Committees are

functioning within the State. The Committee will take all

the responsibilities of providing food, shelter, clothing,

education, vocational training, recreation facilities etc., as

per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)

Model Rules, 2016. It is also stated, under Rules 32 and

38, the Committees will take appropriate action to

repatriate the children who belonged to other Districts,

States or Country by following necessary procedures and

will oversee the transfer or deportation of such children to

their motherland. Though it is stated in the said memo

that, there is no special protection centers established by

the State Government exclusively for juveniles or minors

who are not implicated in any crime born to foreigners,

but, it is clear from the affidavit filed before the Hon'ble 111 Apex Court as noted above, in Writ Petition (Civil)

No.1045/2018, the Central Government has accepted that

the Juvenile Justice Laws which are applied to all children

of those deemed to be foreigner including the children who

are detained and those who are free while their parents

are detained. Therefore, it goes without saying that all the

facilities which are available to the children of our country

also shall be extended to the children who are found to be

the children of the illegal migrants who are in jail or in

detention centers during the course of investigation,

inquiry or trial or undergoing punishment after the

sentence being passed against them, till they are deported

to their country. 107. Therefore, what are all the facilities and the

guidelines issued by the Hon'ble Apex court in

Upadhyay's case is strictly applicable to the women and

children who are in jail irrespective of whether they are

Indian citizens or foreign nationals. 108. While adopting the model Detention

Centre/Holding Centre/Camp Manual, 2019, the State

Government also should take care of the directions issued

by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Upadhyay's case with

respect to women and children who are said to be

vulnerable, they have to take proper care in this regard

particularly with reference to the health condition of the

women and their education and their dignity during their

stay in Detention Centers or in the jail. Further, added to

that, the children born to them who are also considered to

be not the Indian Nationals but the foreign nationals, the

children are also entitled to all facilities and rights that

may be available to the Indian children, in view of the

above said discussion and also in view of the protection

under Juvenile Justice Act . 109. It goes without saying that, if the child has

committed any offence under the Foreigners Act, 1946 or

under other Penal Laws of the land, who is a foreign

national, the child has to be tried by the Juvenile Justice 113 Board and for those persons Juvenile Justice Act and Rules

are applicable with reference to the Registration,

investigation, inquiry or trial as contemplated under the

Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of children) Act,

2015. The Act was amended twice in 2006 and 2011,

though the enactment was introduced in the year 2000.

Mainly the Act was amended to provide amenities for the

children and for its implementation to make the law more

child friendly during the course of implementation of the

Act in order to take care of several issues such as

increasing incidents of abuse of children in various

institutions, inadequate facilities, care, quality and

rehabilitation measures in homes, high pendency of cases,

responsibility and accountability of institutions and also

inadequate provisions to counter offences against children

like sale of children for adoption purpose etc. 110. The new enactment has addressed all these

issues. In fact, said enactment explains the definition of

child which simply says that the child means a person who 114 is not completed 18 years of age. It does not discriminate

amongst the children whether Indian or foreigner's child in

India. If a juvenile child finds with the mother up to the

age of six years, the custody of child should be given to

the mother, if the mother is in jail or with the consent of

the mother, the custody of the child can be given to

another parent. If both the parents are in jail or another

parent is not available, in such an eventuality, the child

must be given to the close relative who can take care of

the child in proper manner, otherwise Government should

take the responsibility of the child to take care of the child

till the mother or father who are in jail, foreign nationals

after their release deported to their mother country. If the

child is retained in the Detention Centre, the mother and

the child should be provided with all facilities in order to

keep them in a dignified manner. If the child is a juvenile

offender or the child in conflict with law, in such an

eventuality, the child shall be kept in the child centers or a

separate Detention Centre if established or it should be 115 kept under the institution recognized under the JJ Act and

Rules with all facilities, till the child is deported to its

mother country. All the bail provisions are equally

applicable to such children. 111. Therefore, looking from the above said facts

and circumstances of the case, it goes without saying that

there shall not be any discrimination so far as the foreign

child is concerned if it happens to be a child, whose father

and mother are illegal migrants or one of the parent is

illegal migrant, all facilities and care to be taken and given

as if the said child has the nationality of Indian country till

deportation takes place. 112. Before parting with this Judgment I feel it just

and necessary to issue the following guidelines to the

Courts and the concerned authorities on the basis of the

above said discussion, though it may not be exhaustive but

it may have some help to the authorities in the helm of

affairs. GUIDELINES. (1) As soon as the offence under Foreigners Act and other Laws is detected and there is a strong
prima facie material to show that the detected
person is a foreign national, and if he has no
Passport or Visa, or if the Visa is expired, and he has
no right to stay in Indian Territory, proceedings shall
be immediately started to deport him to his nation,
without un-necessary delay, from the date of
registration of FIR against such person.

(2) The jurisdictional police have to immediately
take steps to inform the concerned competent
authorities to initiate proceedings to deport such
foreign national to his mother country visa-a-vis
other competent authorities also share the details of
such person amongst themselves and concerned
jurisdictional Court. (3) If the Court refuses to grant bail to those
persons (foreign nationals) in any criminal case, the
Court shall keep such person in regular jail, till the
disposal of the case. (4) If for any reason the Court grants bail including
anticipatory bail, in any criminal case where the
offender is a foreign national, and the offences are
under the Foreigners Act and/or also under any other
Laws for the time being in force, and their Visa is
cancelled or lapsed, or they have no Passport, or
they are illegal migrants, then the Courts shall
specifically order to keep them in detention centers,
unless the competent authority has passed any order
under section 3(2)(a) to (f) of Foreigners Act, 1946 ,
or till further orders of the court or till they are
deported to their mother country. (5) If the case registered against the foreign
nationals, ended in conviction, they shall be ordered
to be kept in regular prison of the State till they
serve their sentence, and after serving the sentence,
they shall be kept in detention centers till, they are
deported to their country. (6) If the case ends up in discharge, release of the
accused or acquittal, and their nationality is in
dispute before the competent Tribunal, they shall be
ordered to be kept in detention centers till they are
deported to their country unless they have any right
or otherwise entitled to remain in India, or the 118 competent authority has passed any orders under section 3(2)(a) to (e) of Foreigners Act 1946, the
acquittal, discharge or release of the accused is no
bar for the concerned competent authorities to
question the nationality of that person before the
competent Tribunal. (7) The Public Prosecutors, the defence Counsel
and the Courts shall make all their efforts to
expeditiously deal with such cases by giving priority,
for its early disposal, so as to enable other
competent authorities to take appropriate steps
under the facts and circumstances of each case for
deportation of such foreign national (accused) as
early as possible. The Court may also if permissible
under law, and applicable to the facts and
circumstances of a case may invoke sections 265A
to 265L under chapter XXI (A) of Code of Criminal
procedure, after following due procedure.

(8) As far as possible where a foreign national is
involved in a case, the courts shall make their
endeavor to record evidence and write the judgment
in English Language, if the accused in such case is
not conversant with the local language. 119 (9) The Central Government and the State
Governments shall take all necessary steps to
establish as many as necessary Detention Centers,
at Cities, Districts and Taluka places as per the
detention Center Manual referred to in this
judgment, with all necessary basic facilities, as per
the detention centre manual, as per the directions
and guidelines of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
case of Upadhyaya Vs State of A.P. and others reported in (2017)15 SCC 337, so as to keep the
foreign nationals, till their deportation whenever they
are ordered to be kept in detention centers by
competent authorities or by the Courts. (10) In case, the accused/foreign national is a
woman or a woman having a child or the child itself,
the competent authorities, including jail authorities,
detention centers, and the Courts and Juvenile
Justice Boards have to follow the Guidelines of the
Hon'ble Apex Court laid down in Upadhyaya 's case
noted supra; in addition to the provisions under the Prisons Act as well as Prisons Rules, and Juvenile
Justice Act and Rules strictly and meticulously in
their letter and spirit. (11) If a mother who is a foreign national, is in
custody and having infant below the age of six years
or up to six years, the court may order the child to
accompany the mother during her custody. If, either
of parents got arrested, then the custody of the child
may be given to the other parent who is not
arrested. If both the parents are arrested and they
are in custody in same or in some other case, court
may order custody of children to their close relative
or to Government shelter home, or to any other
organization recognized or undertaking of the
government where government or concerned
authorities can monitor the well being of the child, as
per Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)
Act, 2015 and Rules. (12) If a foreign national is convicted by the
Court, and any application for parole is made, the jail
authorities have to take in to consideration the
conditions enumerated under Section 4 of the
Foreigners Act, 1946, in addition to the Prisons Act and Rules. (13) If a Foreign National is found to be an illegal
migrant and not a citizen of India, and has been 121 involved in criminal offences under other law of the
land for the time being in force, apart from Foreigners Act , the State Government or the Central
Government as the case may be, take immediate
necessary steps by exercising their discretion after
applying their mind to the facts and circumstances of
the case, if necessary and if the circumstances
warrants, if the said offences are not heinous or anti-
social, or not punishable with imprisonment for
more than three years, or with fine only to withdraw
those cases under Section 321 of Cr.PC., so as to
enable the concerned authorities to take necessary
steps to deport such persons to their mother
country, as expeditiously as possible.

(14) The State Legal Services Authority, District
Legal services Authorities, and Taluka Legal Services
Committees, shall make a periodical visit to the jails
and Detention centers to ensure and satisfy itself
that the concerned authorities have taken necessary
steps to implement the directions issued by the
Hon'ble Apex Court in Upadhyay 's case and also
the Detention Center Manual, so as to take
appropriate action to inform the concerned
authorities to rectify their mistakes and also the 122 Legal Services Authorities suo-motu can take steps
in accordance with law to get the mistakes or errors
rectified on the legal side. (15) The Central Government and the respective
State Governments shall often revise the Detention
Center Manual and also the Prisons Act and Rules
based on the need of the hour to bring necessary
changes, so as to effectively and efficiently
implement the very object of such Manual and laws.

(16) The Central Government, the State
Government, the Karnataka State Legal Services
Authority, Karnataka Judicial Academy and Police
Academy in the State shall take appropriate
necessary swift action to sensitize all the stake
holders, Judges, Prosecutors, Police Officers, Custom
and Immigration Officers (FRRO-FRO), Jail
Authorities and Officers delegated in Detention
Centers, in this regard. (17) Registry is directed to send a copy of this
Order to the Chief Secretary, Principal
Secretary to Home Department, Director
General and Inspector General of Police, 123 Karnataka State Legal Services Authority and
 Karnataka Judicial Academy, for appropriate
 necessary steps. 113. With the above said observations, now I would

like to recollect the facts of this case to consider the

merits of this case to find out whether the petitioners are

entitled to be enlarged on bail or not. 114. In the bail petition, it is categorically stated

that there is no prima facie case made out against the

petitioners, but unfortunate is that they have become the

scapegoats in the hands of the complainant police and they

should not be detained in judicial custody merely on

suspicion or doubt. The petitioners have already

undergone imprisonment for more than one year and long

incarceration may not be necessary as the offences are not

punishable either with death or imprisonment for life and

the offence u/s.14 , 14A and 14B of Foreigners Act, is only

punishable with maximum punishment of 7 years

imprisonment. It is also submitted that, the petitioners are 124 father and daughter and they were residents of West

Bengal and are rag pickers. It is also submitted at

paragraph 12 that the petitioners did not had any intention

to stay in India and they are about to leave after the

treatment of the child but to their misfortune they were

arrested and implicated in this case. They claim that they

have become the citizens of India and there are no

documents to show that they belong to Bangladesh and

there is no report or authentic document to show, in order

to attract Section 14 of the Act. 115. However, when the police have invoked Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, the presumption u/s.9 of

the Foreigners Act, will come into play, unless it is shown

to the court during the course of trial, that the petitioners

are not foreign nationals, they should be presumed as

foreign nationals. Apart from invoking Section 14A of the

Foreigners Act, it is alleged that they were holding the

empty cartridges with them and therefore, the police have

invoked Section 25 of the Indian Arms Act. However, the 125 major offences are u/s.14A and 14B of the Foreigners Act.

The offence u/s.25 of the Arms Act is not punishable either

with death or life imprisonment. Therefore, in my opinion,

by means of imposing stringent conditions, the petitioners

are entitled to be enlarged on bail. However, it is made

clear that though the court is enlarging them on bail, they

cannot be given free movements to wonder across India as

per their whims and fancies, till the case is decided or till

the Government decides whether they have to be deported

to their mother country or not. Till that point of time, in

my opinion, they shall be kept in Detention Centre with all

facilities as noted above and if they are acquitted in the

case registered against them, the Government has to take

appropriate steps whether the determination of their

nationality has to be done by the Competent Authority and

whether they are still to be deported to their mother

country and thereafter only appropriate decision has to be

taken by the Government. Further, if they are convicted

for any reason, the Competent Authorities have to take 126 appropriate steps to deport them to their country

immediately. 116. With the aforesaid observations, I pass the

following: each with one surety for the like sum to the satisfaction of
the trial court. (2) The trial court is hereby directed that, at the
time of releasing of the petitioners on bail, the Competent 127 Authorities shall be informed to detain them in any of the
Detention Centers in Bangalore or at any place nearby
Bengaluru City, till the trial is concluded. (3) It is also made clear that, under Section 3(2) of
the Foreigners Act, if the Competent Authority feels that,
by means of imposing restrictions on the movements of
the petitioners by taking bond with or without surety for
the observance or as an alternative to the enforcement of
any of the prescribed or specific restrictions or conditions
can control their movements, such orders may be passed
by the Competent Authority with intimation to the Court. (4) The petitioners shall not indulge in hampering or
tampering the prosecution witnesses and they shall be
made available to the court on all the future hearing dates
unless they are exempted by the court for any genuine
reasons or cause. (5) The petitioners however, shall not leave the
jurisdiction of the trial court without prior permission till
the case registered against them is disposed of. Sd/- JUDGE
PL*