1. By this writ-application under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India, the writ-applicants have prayed for the Page 1 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

following reliefs: 2. The case of the writ-applicants, in their own words, as

pleaded in the writ-application is as under: 3. Thus, the subject matter of challenge in this writ- application is a show-cause notice dated 26.07.2007 issued by

the Collector, Gandhinagar, in exercise of his suo motu powers

under Section 211 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code. The

show cause notice reads as under: For the aforesaid reasons, why the Revenue
 Entry Nos. 12834, 13210 and 14144 should not be
 cancelled? The opponents as aforesaid are directed to
 remain present on date 12-9-2007 at 11:30 a. m. at
 the address mentioned as aforesaid, personally or
 through authorised representatives for hearing and for
 producing evidence, failing which it will be presumed
 that you are not willing to submit anything and,
 accordingly, ex-parte decision will be taken which you
 may note. Sd/- (Illegible)
 For Collector, Gandhinagar. Copy to : 4. It appears from the materials on record that one

Keshavlal Chaturbhai Patel executed a registered Will in

respect of his properties including 1/2 share in the land in

question. The Will is dated 01.02.1989. Keshavlal Chaturbhai

bequeathed half share in the land in question in favour of

Dahyalal Soni. Dahyalal Soni happened to be the father of the

two writ-applicants herein. 5. On 13.05.1993, the name of Dahyalal Soni came to be

mutated in the record of rights on the basis of the registered

Will. The entry mutating the name of Dahyalal Soni later came

to be certified. After a period of 14 years, the Collector thought

fit to issue the show-cause notice as regards the legality and

validity of the entry on two counts, first, the family pedigree

chart of the testator had not been produced at the relevant

point of time and secondly, the probate of the Will had not

been obtained. 6. Being dissatisfied with the issue of such notice by the

Collector after a period of almost 14 years, the writ-applicants

are here before this Court with this petition. C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT 7. On 21.11.2007, a coordinate bench of this Court passed

the following order: 8. Mr. Mehul S. Shah, the learned senior counsel appearing

for the writ-applicants vehemently submitted that the show

cause notice issued by the Collector in exercise of his suo

motu powers under Section 211 of the Bombay Land Revenue

Code, after a period of 14 years from the date of certification

of the entry, is not tenable in law. Mr. Shah would submit that

the name of Dahyalal Soni came to be mutated in the record of

rights on the strength of a registered Will. Mr. Shah would

further submit that the Will is pertaining to a property located Page 10 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

at Gandhinagar. The property is not located in the residential

town and is outside the area of residential town at village

Mansa, District Mehsana and, therefore, the probate is not

a must for succession of the rights of the parties based on the

Will. 9. In support of his submissions, Mr. Shah has placed

reliance on a decision of this Court in the case of Ramniklal

(Ramanlal) Trikamji Sevak Vs. State of Gujarat - V. C.

Trivedi And/Or His Successor & 4 [Special Civil

Application No.2685 of 2004 decided on 06.02.2013]. 10. Mr. Shah has also placed reliance on a decision of the

Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab & Ors. Vs.

Bhatinda District Co-op Milk P. Union Ltd. , reported in

2007 AIR SCW 6599, to contend that although no period of

limitation has been prescribed, yet the same would not mean

that the suo moto power can be exercised at any time. According to the learned senior counsel, in such

circumstances, even at the stage of show cause notice, this

Court can definitely interfere and quash such a show cause

notice. In such circumstances referred to above , the learned

senior counsel prays that there being merit in this petition, the Page 11 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

same be allowed and the impugned show-cause notice be

quashed. 11. On the other hand, this petition has been vehemently

opposed by Mr. Hardik Soni, the learned AGP appearing for the

State. According to the learned AGP, any action or order which

can be termed as a nullity, such action or order can be

quashed or set right at any point of time. According to the

learned AGP, a delay in null and void transactions would not

come in the way of the authority in exercising its suo moto

power. Mr. Soni laid much emphasis on the fact that Dahyalal

Soni was not an agriculturists and, in such circumstances, he

could not have inherited agricultural land by way of a Will. According to the learned AGP, the law in this regard is well

settled. He further pointed out that the issue, as on date, is at

large before the Supreme Court. According to the learned AGP,

this Court may interfere at the stage of show cause notice

provided the show cause notice is without jurisdiction. To put it

in other words, according to the learned AGP, the authority

issuing the show cause notice should have jurisdiction and if

such jurisdiction is vested in the authority, then this Court in

exercise of its writ-jurisdiction should not interfere at the stage

of show cause notice. Mr. Soni, the learned AGP has placed Page 12 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

reliance on the affidavit-in-reply filed on behalf of the State

duly affirmed by the Deputy Collector, Land Reforms,

Gandhinagar. 12. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the

parties and having considered the materials on record, the

only question that falls for my consideration is that whether

the impugned show cause notice is tenable in law. 13. Let me go straight to the decision of this Court in the

case of Ramniklal (supra), wherein the following has been

observed: 6. Same situation would prevail in the present matter
 inasmuch as the 'Will' was pertaining to the property
 not located in the presidential town but located Page 16 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 outside the area of presidential town i.e. Junagadh.
 Probate was not required to be obtained before the
 'Will' is acted upon. 7. Under these circumstances, the order of the
 Revenue Authority on the basis that probate was
 required to be obtained before the entry was
 recorded in the revenue record pertaining to the 'Will'
 cannot be sustained. On the aspect that one of the
 property is located at Mumbai or was pertaining to
 property of Mubmai. The said ground is non existence
 and the findings so recorded, could be said as
 perverse to the record., 8. As referred to herein above, the copy of the 'Will'
 which is produced in the present proceedings shows
 that none of the property was located at Mumbai for
 which the 'Will' was executed. 9. In view of the aforesaid, the order passed by the
 revenue authority for setting aside the decision of
 certifying the entry based on the 'Will' without
 probate cannot be sustained in the eye of law and
 hence, the same deserves to be set aside. 10. Mr.Karia, learned counsel appearing for
 respondent No.5 attempted to contend that the
 property which is subject matter of the 'Will' is by
 way of inheritance acquired by widow Prabhuichchha
 from her husband Prabhuprasad and therefore, she
 could not have executed 'Will' for the said property. C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 In my view, such aspect cannot be gone into while
 certifying the revenue entry and if respondent No.5 is
 asserting any right in property or is challenging the
 authority or genuineness of the 'Will', appropriate
 remedy is available before the Civil Court by
 preferring Civil Suit for appropriate relief." 14. Thus, the contention of Mr. Shah that the probate is not a

must for the purpose of getting the names mutated in the

record of rights on the strength of Will is fully fortified by the

decision of this Court in the case of Ramniklal (supra). Therefore, the Collector could not have raised the issue of

probate in the show-cause notice. This ground itself is not

available. If the ground itself is not available, the same goes to

the root of the jurisdiction of the Collector in issuing such show

cause notice. 15. Let me now look into the decision of the Supreme Court

in the case of State of Punjab (supra). I may quote the

relevant observations thus:- We may also notice that in cases where an
 assessment order is to be reviewed, the same
 should be done within a period of one year. 16. A bare reading of Section 21 of the Act would
 reveal that although no period of limitation has
 been prescribed therefor, the same would not
 mean that the suo moto power can be exercised at
 any time. 17. It is trite that if no period of limitation has
 been prescribed, statutory authority must exercise
 its jurisdiction within a reasonable period. What,
 however, shall be the reasonable period would
 depend upon the nature of the statute, rights and
 liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors. C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT 18. Revisional jurisdiction, in our opinion, should
 ordinarily be exercised within a period of three
 years having regard to the purport in terms of the
 said Act. In any event, the same should not
 exceed the period of five years. The view of the
 High Court, thus, cannot be said to be
 unreasonable. Reasonable period, keeping in view
 the discussions made hereinbefore, must be found
 out from the statutory scheme. As indicated
 hereinbefore, maximum period of limitation
 provided for in sub-section (6) of Section 11 of the
 Act is five years. 19. In The State of Orissa v. Debaki Debi & Ors.
 reported in [AIR 1964 SC 1413], on interpretation
 of the provisions of Section 12(6) of the Orissa
 Sales Tax Act, 1947, 36 months time was
 considered to be the period of limitation for
 exercise of the revisional jurisdiction. 20. In S.B. Gurbaksh Singh v. Union of India & Ors. [1976 (37) STC 425], Untwalia J., speaking for the
 Bench, opined : 21. Our attention has been drawn to a decision in
 Commissioner of Sales Tax, Orissa & Anr. V. M/s.
 Halari Store etc. [(1997) 7 SCC 715] wherein this
 Court, while considering the provisions of Orissa
 Sales Tax Act, 1948 and the Rules framed
 thereunder, held : 22. The question as to what would be the
 reasonable period did not fall for consideration
 therein. The binding precedent of this Court, some
 of which had been referred to us heretobefore,
 had not been considered. The counsel appearing
 for the parties were remiss in bringing the same to
 the notice of this Court. Furthermore, from a
 perusal of the impugned notice dated 4.9.2006, it
 is apparent that the Revisional Authority did not
 assign any reason as to why such a notice was
 being issued after a period of 5½ years. 23. Question of limitation being a jurisdictional
 question, the writ petition was maintainable. C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT 24. We are, however, not oblivious of the fact that
 ordinarily the writ court would not entertain the
 writ application questioning validity of a notice
 only, particularly, when the writ petitioner would
 have an effective remedy under the Act itself. This
 case, however, poses a different question. The
 Revisional Authority, being a creature of the
 statute, while exercising its revisional jurisdiction,
 would not be able to determine as to what would
 be the reasonable period for exercising the
 revisional jurisdiction in terms of Section 21(1) of
 the Act. The High Court, furthermore in its
 judgment, has referred to some binding
 precedents which have been operating in the field.
 The High Court, therefore, cannot be said to have
 committed any jurisdictional error in passing the
 impugned judgment." 16. The decision of the Supreme Court , referred to above ,

fortifies the submission of Mr. Shah that even at the stage of

show cause notice, the High Court has the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India because, the question of

limitation being a jurisdictional question, the writ petition is

maintainable. 17. This very Court had the occasion to deal with the very

same issue in the case of Shivcharan Lalchand Bhatiya Vs. Page 23 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

Sejal K. Mevada [Special Civil Application No.12250 of

2017 decided on 05.04.2018] wherein the following has been

observed: 8. We heard the submissions made by Mr.
 U.U. Lalit, Mr. Pravin H. Parekh, Mr. Ranjit
 Kumar, Mr. P.V. Shetty, learned senior
 counsels and also the other learned counsels
 appearing for the respondents. The main
 submissions of the learned counsels appearing
 for the respondents are that the names of the
 predecessors in title of the respondents are
 found mentioned in the Khasra Pahani of the
 year 1954-55 and the purchase of the subject
 land by the respondents from them under
 registered sale deeds are not in dispute and
 they have been regularly paying land revenue
 continuously since the year 1954 and
 substantial rights on account of continuous
 possession and enjoyment of the subject
 property has been accrued to the respondents
 and the exercise of suo-motu revisional power
 after long lapse of time is arbitrary and
 summary remedy of enquiry and correction of
 records cannot be invoked when there is
 bonafide dispute of title and liberty has been
 given to the appellants to work out its
 remedies by way of filing civil suit and the
 findings of the High Court are sustainable on
 facts and law. In support of their submissions
 reliance was placed on the following decisions
 of this Court. In the decision in State of Gujarat vs. Patil
 Raghav Natha and others (1969) 2 SCC 187
 this Court while adverting to Sections 65 and 211 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879
 held that though there is no period of
 limitation prescribed under Section 211 to Page 27 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 revise an order made under Section 65 of the
 Act, the said power must be exercised in
 reasonable time and on the facts of the case in
 which the decision arose, the power came to
 be exercised more than one year after the
 order and that was held to be too late. In the decision in Mohamad Kavi Mohamad
 Amin vs. Fatmabai Ibrahim (1997) 6 SCC 71
 this Court while dealing with Section 84-C of
 Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act,
 1976 held that though the said Section does
 not prescribe for any time limit for initiation of
 proceeding such power should be exercised
 within a reasonable time and on the facts of
 the case, the suo motu enquiry initiated under
 the said Section after a period of nine months
 was held to be beyond reasonable time. In the decision in Santoshkumar Shivgonda
 Patil and others vs. Balasaheb Tukaram
 Shevale and others (2009) 9 SCC 352 this
 Court while dealing with the power of revision
 under Section 257 of the Maharashtra Land
 Revenue Code, 1966 held as follows : In the decision in State of Punjab and others
 vs. Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk
 Producers Union Ltd. (2007) 11 SCC 363 this
 Court while dealing with the revisional power
 under Section 21 of the Punjab General Sales
 Tax Act, 1948 held thus : In the decision in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk
 Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham vs. K. Suresh
 Reddy and others (2003) 7 SCC 667 this Court
 while dealing with suo motu power of revision
 under Section 50-B(4) of the Andhra Pradesh
 (Telangana Area) Tenancy and Agricultural
 Land Act, 1950 held as follows : 9. Consequent to the merger of Hyderabad
 State with India in 1948 the Jagirs were
 abolished by the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana
 Area) Abolition of Jagirs Regulation, 1358 fasli.
 'Khasra Pahani' is the basic record of rights
 prepared by the Board of Revenue Andhra
 Pradesh in the year 1954-55. It was gazetted
 under Regulation 4 of the A.P. (Telangana
 Area) Record of Rights in Land Regulation
 1358F. As per Regulation No.13 any entry in
 the said record of rights shall be presumed to
 be true until the contrary is proved. The said
 Regulation of 1358- F was in vogue till it was
 repealed by the A.P. Rights in Land and
 Pattadar Pass Books Act, 1971 , which came
 into force on 15.8.1978. In the 2nd edition
 (1997) of "The Law Lexicon" by P. Ramanatha
 Aiyer (at page 1053) 'Khasra' is described as
 follows: "Khasra is a register recording the
 incidents of a tenure and is a historical record.
 Khasra would serve the purpose of a deed of
 title, when there is no other title deed." 10. Admittedly, the names of the predecessors
 in title of the respondents are found
 mentioned in the Khasra Pahani of the year
 1954-55 pertaining to Survey Nos.36 and 37 of
 Gopanpally village. The purchase of the said
 lands by the respondents from them under Page 31 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 registered sale deeds are also not seriously
 disputed. The further fact is that they have
 been regularly paying land revenue
 continuously since the year 1954. The
 appellants herein issued the impugned notice
 dated 31.12.2004 under Section 166B of A.P.
 (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act,1317 F
 (1907) for cancellation of entries in the Khasra
 Pahani of the year 1953-54, by fixing the date
 of inquiry as 5.2.2005 and that notice is the
 subject matter of challenge here. Subject to the provisions of the Andhra
 Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue
 Regulation, 1358 F, the Government or any
 Revenue officer not lower in rank to a Collector
 the Settlement Commissioner of Land Records
 may call for the record of a case or
 proceedings from a subordinate department
 and inspect it in order to satisfy himself that
 the order or decision passed or the
 proceedings taken is regular, legal and proper
 and may make suitable order in that behalf; Provided that no order or decision affecting
 the rights of the ryot shall be modified or
 annulled unless the concerned parties are
 summoned and heard. (2) Every Revenue Officer lower in rank to a
 Collector or Settlement Commissioner may call
 for the records of a case or proceedings for a
 subordinate department and satisfy himself
 that the order or decision passed or the
 proceedings taken is regular, legal and proper
 and if, in his opinion, any order or decision or,
 proceedings should be modified or annulled,
 he shall put up the file of the case and with his
 opinion to the Collector or Settlement
 Commissioner as the case may be. Thereupon
 the Collector or Settlement Commissioner may
 pass suitable order under the provisions of
 sub-section (1). C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 (3) The original order or decision or an
 authentic copy of the original order or decision
 sought to be revised shall be filed along with
 every application for revision." 11. No time limit is prescribed in the above
 Regulation for the exercise of suo motu power
 but the question is as to whether the suo motu
 power could be exercised after a period of 50
 years. The Government as early as in the year
 1991 passed order reserving 477 acres of land
 in Survey Nos. 36 and 37 of Gopanpally village
 for housesites to the government employees.
 In other words the Government had every
 occasion to verify the revenue entries
 pertaining to the said lands while passing the
 Government Order dated 24.9.1991 but no
 exception was taken to the entries found.
 Further the respondents herein filed Writ
 Petition No.21719 of 1997 challenging the
 Government order dated 24.9.1991 and even
 at that point of time no action was initiated
 pertaining to the entries in the said survey
 numbers. Thereafter, the purchasers of land
 from respondent Nos.1 and 2 herein filed a
 civil suit in O.S.No.12 of 2001 on the file of
 Additional District Judge, Ranga Reddy District
 praying for a declaration that they were lawful
 owners and possessors of certain plots of land
 in survey No.36, and after contest, the suit
 was decreed and said decree is allowed to
 become final. By the impugned Notice dated
 31.12.2004 the suo motu revision power under
 Regulation 166B referred above is sought to
 be exercised after five decades and if it is
 allowed to do so it would lead to anomalous
 position leading to uncertainty and
 complications seriously affecting the rights of
 the parties over immovable properties. 12. In the light of what is stated above we
 are of the view that the Division Bench of the
 High Court was right in affirming the view of
 the learned single Judge of the High Court that
 the suo motu revision undertaken after a long
 lapse of time, even in the absence of any Page 33 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 period of limitation was arbitrary and opposed
 to the concept of rule of law. 13. Thus, we find no merit in these appeals.
 Consequently they are dismissed with no order
 as to costs." 15. Justice T.S. Thakur (as his lordship then was), in
 his separate but concurring judgment, observed as
 under; But what would constitute reasonable time
 would depend upon the facts of each case. 20. To the same effect is the decision of this
 Court in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya
 Coolie Sangham V. K. Suresh Reddy and Ors. (2003) 7 SCC 667 where this Court held that
 even in cases of fraud the revisional power
 must be exercised within a reasonable period
 and that several factors need to be kept in
 mind while deciding whether relief sooner be
 denied only on the ground of delay. The Court
 said: 21. To the same effect is the view taken by this Page 35 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 Court in Sulochana Chandrakant Galande. v.
 Pune Municipal Transport and Others (2010) 8
 SCC 467 where this Court reiterated the legal
 position and held that the power to revise
 orders and proceedings cannot be exercised
 arbitrarily and interminably. This Court
 observed: 22. In State of H.P. and Ors. v. Rajkumar
 Brijender Singh and Ors. (2004) 10 SCC this
 Court held that in the
 absence of any special circumstances a delay
 of 15 years in suo motu exercise of revisional
 power was impermissible as the delay was
 unduly long and unexplained. This Court
 observed: 23. We may also refer to the decision of this
 Court in M/s Dehri Rohtas Light Railway Page 37 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 Company Ltd. V. District Board, Bhojpur and
 Ors. (1992) 2 SCC 598 where the Court
 explained the legal position as under: 24. To sum up, delayed exercise of revisional
 jurisdiction is frowned upon because if actions Page 38 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 or transactions were to remain forever open to
 challenge, it will mean avoidable and endless
 uncertainty in human affairs, which is not the
 policy of law. Because, even when there is no
 period of limitation prescribed for exercise of
 such powers, the intervening delay, may have
 led to creation of third party rights, that cannot
 be trampled by a belated exercise of a
 discretionary power especially when no cogent
 explanation for the delay is in sight. Rule of law
 it is said must run closely with the rule of life.
 Even in cases where the orders sought to be
 revised are fraudulent, the exercise of power
 must be within a reasonable period of the
 discovery of fraud. Simply describing an act or
 transaction to be fraudulent will not extend the
 time for its correction to infinity; for otherwise
 the exercise of revisional power would itself be
 tantamount to a fraud upon the statute that
 vests such power in an authority. 25. In the case at hand, while the entry sought
 to be corrected is described as fraudulent,
 there is nothing in the notice impugned before
 the High Court as to when was the alleged
 fraud discovered by the State. A specific
 statement in that regard was essential for it
 was a jurisdictional fact, which ought to be
 clearly asserted in the notice issued to the
 respondents. The attempt of the appellant-
 State to demonstrate that the notice was
 issued within a reasonable period of the
 discovery of the alleged fraud is, therefore,
 futile. At any rate, when the Government
 allowed the land in question for housing sites
 to be given to Government employees in the
 year 1991, it must be presumed to have known
 about the record and the revenue entries
 concerning the parcel of land made in the
 ordinary course of official business. In as much
 as, the notice was issued as late as on 31st
 December, 2004, it was delayed by nearly 13
 years. No explanation has been offered even
 for this delay assuming that the same ought to
 be counted only from the year 1991. Judged
 from any angle the notice seeking to reverse Page 39 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 the entries made half a century ago, was
 clearly beyond reasonable time and was rightly
 quashed." 16. Thus, the Supreme Court, in Ranga Reddy (supra) made itself very clear that even in cases
 where the orders sought to be revised are
 fraudulent, the exercise of power must be within a
 reasonable period of the discovery of fraud. What is
 important is the observation of the Supreme Court
 that simply describing an act or transaction to be
 fraudulent, will not extend the time for its correction
 to infinity; for otherwise the exercise of revisional
 power would itself be tantamount to a fraud upon
 the statute that vests such power in an authority. 17. I don't find any fraud in the case on hand. Let me
 assume for the moment that the transaction in
 question was in breach of the provisions of section
 63 of the Tenancy Act, but that by itself, is not
 sufficient to accuse the parties of having played
 fraud with the State Government. 18. Even otherwise, any transaction in contravention
 of section 63 or 64 of the Act is made invalid and not
 void. This becomes clear from the language of section 63 and the provisions contained in section
 64(8) of the Act thereof. There is a fine distinction
 between the terms "invalid" and "void". It become
 clear from the language of the statutory provisions , referred to above , that any invalid transaction will Page 40 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 have to be decided or declared invalid. It would thus
 mean that an invalid transaction per se may be
 invalid, but it will not be invalid unless it is decided
 or declared to be so. It has to be invalidated. It thus
 becomes clear that an invalid transaction is made
 equivalent to a voidable transaction and not a void
 transaction. It is a trite principle of law to say that a
 voidable transaction remains valid till it is avoided,
 annulled or invalidated. In order to annul, avoid or
 invalidate a voidable transaction, powers for the
 purpose will have to be exercised within reasonable
 time. 19. A learned Single Judge of this Court in the case of Mavjibhai Dharsibhai & Ors. vs. State of Gujarat &
 Ors. , 1994 (2) GLR 1168 had the occasion to
 consider the power under section 84-C of the Act. I
 may quote the relevant observations as under; 20. In the case of Thakorbhai Tribhovandas Rao (supra), a Division Bench of this Court observed as
 under; 21. In the case of Thakorbhai Tribhovandas Rao (supra) a learned Single Judge of this Court
 observed; 22. In the case of Arunbhai Laljibhai Gadhiya
 (supra), a learned Single Judge of this Court
 observed as under; 6. In the instant case, the order dated
 31.01.2007 passed by the Mamlatdar is
 sought to be revised by the Collector under Section 76-A of the Tenancy Act after a period
 of about four years, which is not permissible in
 view of the proviso to the said section. Hence,
 initiation of proceedings under Section 76-A at
 the instance of Collector by issuing show-
 cause notice being illegal, the same deserves
 to be quashed and set aside, more
 particularly, when the Collector himself had
 granted NA permission to the predecessor in
 title of the petitioners in respect of the land in
 question, permitting them to use the land for
 non-agricultural purpose. 7. In that view of the matter, the notice dated
 21.09.2011 issued by the Deputy Collector,
 Surat, is quashed and set aside. The petition is
 allowed accordingly. It is clarified that the
 Court has not decided the other issues though
 raised in the petition. Rule is made absolute
 accordingly." 23. In the case of Shah Arvindkumar Daulatkrishna
 (supra), a learned Single Judge of this Court
 observed as under; C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 "6. As stated herein above, the legality of the
 impugned orders passed by the respondent
 Nos.2 and 4 is being examined only qua the
 provisions contained in Section 76A of the
 Tenancy Act as the respondent No.2 has
 reviewed the order of the Mamlatdar under Section 76A of the Tenancy Act. From the bare
 reading of the proviso to Section 76A of the
 Tenancy Act, it clearly transpires that the
 Collector could not have called for the record
 of any proceedings either suo motu or on the
 reference made by the State Government,
 after the expiry of one year from the date of
 such order passed by the Mamlatdar or
 Tribunal. In the case of Thakorbhai
 Tribhovandas Rao and Ors. Vs. State of
 Gujarat and Ors. (supra), it has also been
 held as under:- 7. So far as the facts of the present case are
 concerned, the respondent No.2 had sought to
 review the order passed by the Mamlatdar
 after the expiry of ten years of the said order
 and, therefore, such review was hit by the
 proviso to Section 76A of the Tenancy Act. It is Page 49 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

 true that this Court, while passing the order in
 the petition filed by the petitioners, had
 observed that the powers of the respondents
 to examine the legality of the order passed by
 the Mamlatdar in accordance with law was
 kept open, however, at the same time, all the
 contentions of the petitioners were also kept
 open. It is needless to say that the respondent
 No.2 was required to act in accordance with
 law and keeping in view the provisions
 contained in the Tenancy Act . Since the
 proviso to Section 76A of the Tenancy Act does
 not allow the Collector to call for the record or
 to examine the legality of the order of the
 Mamlatdar or the Tribunal after the expiry of
 one year from the date of such order, the
 impugned orders passed by the Collector as
 well as the Revenue Tribunal are in violation of
 the said provision and, therefore, bad in law. 8. In that view of the matter, the impugned
 orders dated 11.5.2011 and 9.2.2010 deserve
 to be set aside and, are hereby set aside. The
 petition stands allowed accordingly. Rule is
 made absolute accordingly." 24. Thus, I am convinced that the suo motu exercise
 of power at the end of the Deputy Collector under section 76A of the Act after a period of almost
 twenty years is nothing but an abuse of the
 provisions of the Act." 18. At this stage, let me deal with the submission of the

learned AGP as regards Dahyalal Soni not being an

agriculturist. Let me clarify that this issue as such pales into

insignificance because the transaction in question is much

prior to the decision of the Division Bench of this Court on Page 50 of 51 C/SCA/23469/2007 JUDGMENT

which strong reliance is placed by the learned AGP. Even the

Division Bench in its judgment has clarified that all

transactions earlier in point of time may not be disturbed. Apart from the same, the show cause notice has not been

issued on such ground. The show cause notice does not say

that Dahyalal Soni could not have inherited the agricultural

land by way of a Will being a non-agriculturists. The show

cause notice is only on two grounds, (1) Probate and (2) Family

Pedigree Chart. 19. In the overall view of the matter, I am convinced that the

Collector was not justified in law in issuing the impugned show

cause notice in exercise of its suo motu powers under Section

211 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code after a period of 14

years from the date the entry came to be certified. 20. In view of the above, this petition succeeds and is hereby

allowed. The impugned show cause notice is hereby quashed. Rule is made absolute. Direct service is permitted. (J.B.PARDIWALA, J)
MAYA Page 51 of 51