The Kerala High Court issued an order directing banks not to freeze the entire bank accounts of traders who receive UPI payments from senders under cybercrime investigation and instead freeze only the amount suspected to be involved in the crime, LiveLaw reported on October 19.

The court was listening to a batch of petitions filed by persons, mostly small businessmen and retailers, who had their bank accounts frozen when they received UPI payments from accounts that were part of a cyber financial crime.

This issue was highlighted by news outlets in April 2023 when traders faced hardships because of the account freezing.

Is it possible for #UPI to #harm you for receiving a payment?

There are various reports on Malayalam media today about this type of harm. Eg. Receiving rs 300 payment via UPI for a rice pan cake (pathiri) resulted in a small merchant's account freeze. https://t.co/y0TXQf6EWz

— 𝗔𝗻𝗶𝘃𝗮𝗿 𝗔𝗿𝗮𝘃𝗶𝗻𝗱 (@anivar) April 9, 2023

#Kerala banks are freezing hundreds of accounts based just on notes from police officers from other states investigating cybercrimes. The account holders have tenuous link to the fraud. Many are forced to pay bribes to wriggle out of #AccountFreeze https://t.co/cvAUBxxFGy

— george poikayil (@george_poikayil) April 14, 2023

Bank A/Cs can be frozen for no fault of yours? What many UPI users learned in Kerala. @thekorahabraham writes https://t.co/8gdXm1pIZx

— Dhanya Rajendran (@dhanyarajendran) April 15, 2023

You can also read more about the issue in this thread here.

Article continues below , you might also want to read:

“The petitioners assert that they have literally caught between the ‘Devil and the Deep Sea’ because, for one, they do not know why their accounts have been frozen; and for the second, they are now facing incalculable loss in their business and unspeakable prejudice, with their accounts being rendered unavailable to them to operate, all because some unknown person, sitting in a far off and remote place in India or even abroad, is alleged to have made UPI transactions in their accounts as part of small trading or payment against services bonafide rendered, including in restaurants and retail shops,” Justice Devan Ramachandran said in his order.

The Justice noted that there needs to be certain specific safeguards into the process, otherwise people will lost their faith in the UPI system itself.

“In the afore perspective, when the requisitions in these cases – by various Police Authorities in several States of India – mention the exact amount suspected to have been credited to the accounts of the petitioners herein, one fails to fathom why their bank accounts in full, should remain frozen. This is more so because, even when the sums in question may have found credit in the accounts of the petitioners, unless the investigation eventually reveals that they were complicit in the Cyber Crime, or had received the same being aware of it, they could never be construed to be accused,” the Justice noted.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event