This Second Appeal is in challenge of the judgment dated

 10.01.2007 passed by the learned Additional District Judge, Angul in

 R.F.A. No.5 of 2006 dismissing the First Appeal arising out of the

 judgment passed by the learned Civil Judge (Senior Division), Angul

 on 21.03.2006 in Civil Suit No.69 of 2002. 2. Plaintiffs are the Appellants and defendants are the

 Respondents in this Second Appeal. Plaintiff No.1-Kalinga Institute

 of Mining Engineering & Technology (KIMET) is an Engineering

 School established in the year 1989 pursuant to a registered Deed of

 Trust executed on 22.08.1989. The Institution is affiliated to All

 India Council of Technical Education (AICTE). Plaintiff Nos.2 and 3

 and defendant Nos.1 to 5 are the founder trustees constituting the

 Board of Trustees. Plaintiff No.2 (since dead) was unanimously

 elected as Secretary of the Trust Board. The Institute (P-1) was initially represented by the

 Secretary of the Trust Board (P-2). P-3 and P-4 are two other 3 members of the Trust Board. They filed the suit for declaration that

plaintiff No.2 is the Secretary of the Trust Board and as such he is

entitled to manage the administration of the institute through

members of the Trust Board till formation of a Governing Body in

accordance with the guidelines of AICTE, with further declaration

that defendant Nos.1 to 5 have ceased to be members of the Trust

Board and as such they be permanently restrained from interfering in

the administration of the institute. 3. Shorn of unnecessary details, the plaintiffs' case may be

narrated. D-1 to D-3, as members of the Trust Board, resigned on

30.04.1990, 01.04.1990 and 27.04.1990, respectively, and their

resignations were accepted by the Trust Board under resolution dated

26.12.1990. D-4 and D-5 were ousted from the Trust Board due to

their continuous absence. After the resignation as well as ouster of

the defendants the Trust Board was left with only two trustees, i.e.,

P-2 and P-3. But, at a later stage, the defendants, who had either

resigned or were ousted, formed an unholy combination and in a

fictitious meeting held on 10.01.1993 passed a resolution removing P-

2 from the post of Secretary of the Trust Board and appointed D-1,

K.C. Nath, as the Secretary. In the same meeting resolution was

passed permitting D-1 to D-3 to withdraw their resignations.

Thereafter, on the strength of such resolution they started creating 4 disturbance in the day-to-day affairs of the institution. Hence, the

suit. 4. D-1 to D-5 filed written statement jointly. D-6 did not

choose to file any W.S. In their written statement D-1 to D-5 have

contended that in April, 1990 when it was noticed that P-2, as the

Secretary of the Trust Board, was not discharging his duty properly

and was not rendering accounts to the Trust Board, the formers

submitted purported resignations to put pressure on P-2 to discharge

his duty properly. But, instead of mending his modus operandi, P-2

started misappropriating funds of the institute for which one F.I.R.

was lodged against him. On 25.10.1992 as per the request of other

members of the Trust Board, D-1 to D-3 withdrew their purported

resignations. In the meeting of the Trust Board held on 10.01.1993,

which was attended by all the members except P-2, withdrawal of

resignations of D-1 to D-3 was accepted, plaintiff No.2 was removed

from the post of the Secretary and D-1 was requested to take charge

of that post. 5. During pendency of the suit Purna Chandra Pradhan,

(P-2) who was representing the institute, died. His son Lambodar

Pradhan (P-4) filed a petition under O.1 r.10, C.P.C . to be impleaded

as a party claiming that he had been nominated as a permanent

trustee/member of the Trust Board. Objection was filed contending

that son of deceased plaintiff No.2 being not duly appointed as a 5 trustee by the Trust Board he could not be permitted to represent the

trust. The Principal of the institute filed a separate petition to be

impleaded as a plaintiff. Other legal representatives of deceased P-2

also filed a separate petition for being substituted and arrayed as

plaintiffs. Subsequently, these legal representatives took the stand

that they would have no objection if Bansidhar Pradhan's petition be

allowed. Learned trial court vide order dated 30.7.2005 allowed

Lambodar Prdahan's petition and arrayed him as P-4 to carry forward

the suit observing, inter alia, that there was no defect with regard to

his appointment as a trustee. 6. Having analysed the evidence learned trial court has

concluded that D-3 to D-5 are still continuing as members of the

Trust Board but D-1 and D-2 have ceased to be members thereof. It

has further held that Lambodar Pradhan (P-4) having not been duly

inducted as a trustee/member of the Trust Board he has no locus

standi to represent the institution. 7. Being aggrieved, P-1 and P-4 preferred R.F.A. No.5 of

2006 and D-1 to D-5 preferred R.F.A. No.9 of 2006. Learned lower

Appellate Court dismissed both the R.F.As. However, while dismissing

R.F.A. No.5 of 2006 it observed that not only D-1 and D-2, but also

D-3 had ceased to be members of the Trust Board. It concurred with

trial court's finding that D-4 and D-5 are still continuing as trustees.

So far as the status of P-4 is concerned, learned lower Appellate 6 Court held that his very induction to the Trust Board as a member

being not legal, he had no cause of action to proceed with the suit. 8. The Second Appeal has been admitted on the following

substantial questions of law: (i) Whether in view of the resolution dated
 15.03.1990 (Ext.23) and resolution
 dated 26.12.1990 (Ext.25) of Trust
 Board of KIMET ousting Defendant No.4,
 Bansidhar Pradhan and Defendant No.5,
 Gobind Ch. Nayak from the Trust Board
 were legal and valid in view of the facts
 that the said resolutions have an
 evidentiary value under Section 35 of
 the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and that
 no rebuttal evidence was adduced on
 behalf of the defendants to dislodge the
 value of the aforesaid resolution? (ii) Whether both the courts below
 committed gross error of law by coming
 to a finding that the plaintiff No.4,
 Lambodar Pradhan is not a trustee of
 KIMET and has no locus standi to file
 the suit in view of the order dated
 30.07.2005 passed by the learned Civil
 Judge (Senior Division), Angul in C.S.
 No.69 of 2002 wherein it was held that
 Defendant Nos.1 to 5 had ceased to be
 members of Trust Board by virtue of
 acceptance of their resolutions and
 ouster and that plaintiff Nos.4,
 Lambodar Pradhan was legally accepted
 as a trustee in place of deceased,
 Gundicha Behera (Plaintiff No.2). Could
 the learned Civil Judge (Senior Division),
 Angul reverse its own finding given in
 order dated 30.7.2005 while passing the
 final judgment even though the order
 dated 30.7.2005 was not challenged by
 the defendants in any higher forum and
 the said order became final and binding
 between the parties? (iii) Whether the courts below are justified in
 giving a finding that fraud and
 interpolation were committed by the
 plaintiffs while ousting defendant Nos.3,
 4 and 5 from the Trust Board in absence
 of any particulars of fraud being alleged
 in the pleading and evidence led to that
 effect? 9. Lengthy arguments were advanced by both the sides on

question No.2. It is argued by the learned counsel for the Appellants

that once the learned trial court, after taking into consideration the

rival submissions of the parties, passed order dated 30.7.2005

permitting P-4 to continue the suit observing that he was legally

accepted as a trustee, subsequently, while disposing of the suit it

could not have reversed its own finding recorded in the order dated

30.7.2005 observing that P-4 was not duly inducted as a trustee and

had no locus standi to continue the suit, more so when the order

dated 30.7.2005 was not challenged by the defendants in any higher

forum and thereby allowed it to attain finality. Learned counsel for

the Respondent No.4 has argued justifying the trial court's stand

submitting that the finding recorded in order dated 30.07.2005 is a

mere prima facie satisfaction on the induction of plaintiff No.4 as a

trustee to allow him to continue the suit which does not operate as

res judicata against any finding on merits of the case upon

examination of the entire evidence adduced during the trial. 10. In support of his contention learned counsel for the

Appellants has cited the judgment in Muthiah Chettiar v. Krishna 8 Dossvaru , reported in AIR 1921 Madras 599 (F.B.) and

Venkatarama v. Persurama, reported in AIR 1948 Madras 81

wherein it is observed that an order passed under O.22 r.10 of C.P.C .

is appealable. Relying on this observation, learned counsel submits

that the respondents-defendants having not preferred appeal against

order dated 30.7.2005, the same had become final and, therefore, the

learned trial court could not have reviewed that order while passing

the judgment. In support of his further contention that order dated

30.7.2005 of the learned trial court accepting plaintiff No.4 as a

trustee is not an interlocutory or interim order but a final order which

is conclusive and could not have been reopened by the learned trial

court itself or even by the learned lower Appellate Court, reliance has

been placed on several decisions including judgment of the apex

Court in Chhabil Das v. Pappu , reported in (2006) 12 SCC 41. In

that case an order under O.22 r.5, C.P.C . allowing the Applicant to be

impleaded as legal representative of the deceased Plaintiff was passed

observing that the Applicant was adopted by the deceased. It being

not challenged in higher forum had attained finality. Therefore, it

was held that the Defendant-Appellant could not be permitted to raise

question in the Second Appeal that the adoption of the Applicant was

per se illegal and he could not represent the estate of the deceased

Plaintiff. In Kali Pachi and others v. Ramalekshmi Ammal

Muthammal and others, reported in AIR 1953 TRAV-CO. 158 it is 9 observed that on a petition under O.22 r.5, C.P.C . if the question as

to who is legal representative has been determined before proceeding

with the suit after hearing the parties thereto, the Court's decision on

that question is conclusive as between the parties to such a

proceeding so far as the particular case is concerned and the parties

to that proceeding cannot be allowed to question that order at any

subsequent stage of the suit. In Rabindra N. Das v. Santosh

Kumar Mitra and others , AIR 1975 Calcutta 381, it is held that

an order for substitution passed under O.22 r.5, C.P.C . is not in the

nature of an interlocutory order and is conclusive and binding. 11. Learned counsel for Respondent No.4, on the other hand,

has cited AIR 2010 Supreme Court 344 ( Suresh Kumar Bansal v.

Krishna Bansal & Anr. ). In this reported case the plaintiff had

instituted a suit for eviction and recovery of arrears of rent. During

pendency of the suit the plaintiff died. After his death his widow filed

an application for substitution and the brother of the deceased

plaintiff also filed an application for substitution on the strength of a

Will allegedly executed by the deceased plaintiff in his favour. The

learned Civil Judge allowed the application filed by the widow and

rejected the other one observing that the Will seemed to be

suspicious. The dispute between the widow and the brother of the

deceased plaintiff on the question as to who is the legal representative 10 of the deceased went up to the apex Court and the Hon'ble apex

Court observed as follows:- 12. Most of the judgments referred to above are on the

provisions contained in O.22 r.5, C.P.C . But the order dated

30.7.2005 permitting the appellant to continue the suit is not under

O.22 r.5. That order was passed on the appellant's application

nomenclatured as one under O.1 r.10, C.P.C . But, the appropriate

provision under which it can be brought is O.22 r.10, C.P.C . In Roshan Lal Kunja Mal v. Kapur Chand , AIR 1960 Punj 382,

referred to in Smt. Pushpa Kumari v. Dewan Chand Trust, New

Delhi : AIR 1983 Delhi 91, a Division Bench has observed that in a

representative suit by trustees if some of the trustees die during

pendency of a suit and new trustees are appointed they are not

representatives of the old trustees within the meaning of O.22 r.3 of

the Code. The new trustees are added as parties under O.22 r.10 of

the Code. In Rikhu Dev v. Som Dass : AIR 1975 SC 2159, the

principle on which O.22 r.10 is based is explained in the following

words:- Thereafter, A-4 approached the trial court to be arrayed as a party to

continue the suit on behalf of the Institute claiming that he was a

duly inducted Trustee. Learned trial court recording its prima facie

satisfaction permitted him to represent the Institute and to continue

the suit. Consequent upon his introduction as a party the plaint was

not sought to be amended. So, the relief for declaration that P-2 is the

Secretary of the Trust Board and as such he is entitled to manage the

affairs of the Institution through the members of the Trust Board

were rendered redundant. Similarly, the defendants did not amend

their written statement incorporating pleadings challenging the

validity of A-4's induction as a Trustee. No issue was framed on that

count. Under such circumstances, there is little scope to delve into

the validity or legality of A-4's induction as a Trustee. But, so far the

order of permission to continue the suit is concerned, after passing of

the order dated 30.7.2005 neither the trial court nor the lower

appellate court could have taken a stand which is contrary to the

prima facie satisfaction recorded in the said order. Therefore, the

observation of the learned courts below that Appellant No.4 has no 13 locus standi to continue the suit is not sustainable in law. To this

extent, question No.(ii) is answered in favour of the Appellant No.4. 14. Question No.(iii) is on the absence of pleadings giving

detailed particulars of fraud allegedly committed by the plaintiffs

while ousting defendant Nos.3 to 5 from the Trust Board. Neither in

the written statement there is any challenge to the validity of the

ousting of D.3 to 5 from the Trust Board on the ground of fraud nor

any finding has been recorded by the learned courts below that there

was fraud committed by plaintiff No.2 to oust the defendants from the

Trust Board. It is simply pleaded in the W.S. that there were

interpolations of some documents. Such a plea is not tantamount to

plea of fraud. Therefore, this question does not deserve any

consideration. 15. Question No.(i) is on the evidentiary value of resolutions

dated 15.3.1990 (Ext.23) and dated 26.12.1990 (Ext.25) of the Trust

Board ousting D.4 and D.5 from the Trust Board. Both the learned

courts below have exhaustively dealt with the evidence, including

Exts.23 and 25, while considering the validity of alleged ouster of D.4

and D.5. Section 35 of the Evidence Act deals with relevancy of entry

in any public record or electronic record made by a public servant in

performance of his duty. In order to render any document admissible

under Section 35 it must be shown that the entry relied on is one in a

public or official book, Register or record made by a public servant in 14 discharge of his official duty and the entry relied on states fact in

issue or relevant fact. Such entries are presumed to be correct unless

rebutted. Learned counsel for the respondent No.4 has argued that

the entry made in the Resolution Book, from which the two

resolutions in question have been exhibited, are not made by a public

servant and the resolution book itself is not a public or official book,

Register or record as contemplated under Section 35 of the Evidence

Act. Learned counsel for the Appellants, on the other hand, argues

that the Trust Board being a creature of law under the Indian Trust

Act, 1882 , the Resolution Books maintained by it come within the

ambit of Section 35 of the Evidence Act. Admittedly, the plaintiff

No.1-Institution is a private Institution run by Trustees constituting a

Trust Board. Resolutions passed by the members of the Trust Board

are found recorded in a Register. The members of the Trust Board are

not public servants. The Resolution Book, therefore, cannot be

treated as public or other official book, Register or record maintained

by a public servant. Section 35 of the Evidence Act is not applicable

to Exts.23 and 25. 16. On behalf of the appellants a petition has been filed for

production and acceptance of additional evidence. It is asserted that

the documents could not be filed before either of the learned courts

below as those were not available for production. It is further claimed

that the additional evidence is intended to be adduced only to show 15 that Respondent Nos.4 and 5, being involved in various crimes

including misappropriation of funds of the Institute (P.1), are unfit to

continue as Trustees even if they succeed in this Second Appeal. This

prayer is opposed to by the respondents contending that the

documents intended to be proved as additional evidence have no

bearing on examining the correctness and/or legality of the impugned

judgment as well as in answering any of the substantial questions in

this Second Appeal. The following observation made by the apex

Court in Union of India v. Ibrahim Uddin , reported in (2012) 8

Supreme Court Cases 148 is relevant for the purpose of guidance. An application under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC is to be considered at the time of hearing of appeal
 on merits so as to find out whether the documents
 and/or the evidence sought to be adduced have
 any relevance/bearing on the issues involved. The
 admissibility of additional evidence does not
 depend upon the relevancy to the issue on hand, or
 on the fact, whether the applicant had an
 opportunity for adducing such evidence at an
 earlier stage or not, but it depends upon whether or
 not the appellate court requires the evidence
 sought to be adduced to enable it to pronounce
 judgment or for any other substantial cause. The
 true test, therefore is, whether the appellate court
 is able to pronounce judgment on the materials
 before it without taking into consideration the
 additional evidence sought to be adduced. Such
 occasion would arise only if on examining the
 evidence as it stands the court comes to the
 conclusion that some inherent lacuna or defect
 becomes apparent to the court. 17. In view of this observation, it is to be examined as to

whether the evidence sought to be adduced are required to enable 16 this Court to pronounce judgment or whether this Court is able to

pronounce judgment on materials already on record without taking

into consideration the additional evidence sought to be adduced. The

documents sought to be produced as additional evidence are intended

to show that these are F.I.Rs. as well as allegations and counter-

allegations against R.4 and R.5 on their alleged involvement in

criminal cases, various scams and misappropriation of funds of the

Institute. It is argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that if

these documents are taken into consideration then the Court, even if

it confirms the findings of the learned courts below that these two

respondents are still continuing as members of the Trust Board,

would definitely come to a conclusion that R.4 and 5 being involved in

serious crimes/scams are unfit to be continued as Trustees. The suit has been filed for declaring that the defendants

have ceased to be the members of the Trust Board and therefore, they

have no right to interfere in the administration of the institution. The

suit is not filed for declaring them disqualified to be members of the

Trust Board on grounds including their involvement in serious crimes

as well as various scams. Therefore, the documents sought to be

adduced as additional evidence are not required for either answering

any of the substantial questions of law or enabling the Court to

pronounce judgment in this appeal which can be pronounced on the

materials already placed before on record. The contentions raised by 17 the learned counsel for the Respondents that the documents sought

to be adduced as additional evidence are totally irrelevant and have

no bearing on the dispute between the parties is, therefore, accepted. 18. At the closure of argument learned counsel for

Respondent No.5 has made a submission supported by the learned

counsel for the appellant that even after disposal of the Second

Appeal the Collector who vide order dated 3.5.2011 has been directed

by this Court to act as Receiver in respect of the appellant institution

should be allowed to continue to act as Receiver instead of handing

over management of the institution in the hands of any of the

Trustees till the Department of Industries, Government of Orissa

forms a Governing Body of the institution in accordance with the

guidelines framed by AICTE. During pendency of this appeal, finding that there was

scramble amongst the Trustees to take over management of the

institution, order was passed on 3.5.2011 directing the Collector,

Angul to act as Receiver in respect of the institution and take charge

of the entire management of the said institution including operation

of the institution's Bank Account as well as exercise of financial

power for payment of the salary of the staff members with observation

that the interim arrangement should continue till the appeal was

taken up for hearing. In support of the contention that the Receiver

can be continued even after disposal of the Second Appeal reliance 18 has been placed on the decision in Hiralal Patni v. Loonkaran

Sethiya , reported in AIR 1962 Supreme Court 21 wherein it is

observed that the Court has ample power to continue the Receiver

even after the final decree if the exigencies of the case so require. In

the said reported case Hon'ble apex Court have referred to some

authoritative Text Books on Receivers such as Halsbury's Laws of

England; Kerr on Receivers; High on the law of Receivers and The Law

Relating to Receivers in British India wherefrom the following

principles on the duration of appointment of Receiver by the Court

emerge. When a Receiver is appointed for a limited time his office

determines on the expiration of that time without any further order of

the Court and if the appointment is 'until judgment or further order' it

is brought to an end by the judgment passed in the case. In the

judgment the Court may however provide for the continuance of the

Receiver, but such appointment is regarded as a new appointment.

The functions of a Receiver usually terminate with the termination of

the litigation in which he was appointed. Although as between the

parties to the litigation his functions have terminated with the

determination of the suit, he is still amenable to the court as its

officer until he has complied with its directions as to the disposal of

the funds which he has received during the course of his

Receivership. The court, however, has ample power to continue the 19 Receiver even after the final decree if the exigencies of the case so

demand. In this case the Receiver was appointed till the hearing in

the appeal. Considering the nature of dispute between the parties and

the way the case is going to be finally disposed of, this Court does not

find the existence of any exigency to continue the Receiver after

disposal of this Second Appeal. 19. The end result of the lis is that R-4 and R-5 are not found

to have ceased to be the members of the Trust Board. As regards the

status of Appellant No.4 the plaint having not been amended to

incorporate any relief for declaration of his status as a member of the

Trust Board, his status cannot be declared in this suit though he has

been permitted to continue the suit. Once it is finally concluded that

R-4 and R-5 did never cease to be the members of the Trust Board the

manner of induction of A-4 as a Trustee, as claimed by him in his

application under O.1 r.10, C.P.C . that has been dealt with in the

order dated 30.7.2005 of the learned trial court, is glaringly found to

be in contravention of Clause-6 of the bye-laws of the Trust.

Therefore, learned courts below were compelled to observe that

Appellant No.4 is not a validly appointed member of the Board of

Trustees. 20. In the result, the Second Appeal is dismissed on contest

but, in the facts and circumstances, without cost. Judgment of the 20 learned lower appellate court is confirmed. R-4 and R-5 being found

to have never ceased to be the members of the Trust Board are

entitled to act as the Board of Trustees under the Deed of Trust as

well as the bye-laws of the Trust including the management and

functioning of the Trust, i.e., the Institution (A-1). The Receivership

shall stand terminated on the expiry of two months from the date of

this judgment. The Collector, Angul as Receiver shall hand over

charge of the entire management of the Institution to the members of

the Trust Board existing as on the date of handing over of such

charge. On the expiry of the aforesaid period of two months the

Receiver shall cease to exercise any function in respect of the

management of the Institution including exercise of financial power.

The Receiver shall submit account for the entire period of the

Receivership before this Court within three months from the date of

this judgment and after acceptance of the account, the Receivership

shall stand discharged. A copy of this judgment be served on the Receiver, i.e.,

the Collector, Angul through the Judge-in-Charge, Nizarat Civil

Courts, Angul within ten days hence. With the disposal of the Second Appeal, all the pending

misc. cases stand disposed of. .............................. R. Dash, J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 18th November, 2014/A.K. Kar, Secretary
 D. Aech, Sr. Steno