M/s. Himadri Steel Pvt. Ltd. having its Office & Works at
 Nuagoan, Satkatia, P.O. & P.S-Chakuliya, Dhalbhumgarh, Dist-
 East Singhbhum, Jharkhand, represented through one of its
 Director Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, Son of Sri Harishankar
 santhalia, Resident of 12, Diagonal Road, Bistupur, P.O. & P.S.
 Bistupur, Dist-East Singhbhum. ... Petitioner

 Versus 1. Jharkhand Urja Vikas Nigam Limited through its Chairman
 cum Managing Director having its office at Engineers Bhawan,
 H.E.C. Township, Dhurwa, P.O. & P.S. Dhurwa, Dist. Ranchi. 2. Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited through its Managing
 Director having its office at Engineers Bhawan, H.E.C.
 Township, Dhurwa, P.O. & P.S. Dhurwa, Dist. Ranchi. 3. The General Manager-Cum-Chief Engineer, Singhbhum
 Electric Supply Area, Bistupur, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand Bijli
 Vitran Nigam Limited, office at Co-operative Building,
 Bistupur, Jamshedpur, P.O. & P.S. Bistupur, Dist. East
 Singhbhum. 4. The Electrical Superintending Engineer, Electric Supply
 Circle, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited,
 Office at Vikas Bhawan, P.O. & P.S. Adityapur, Dist.
 Saraikella-Kharsawan. 5. Electrical Executive Engineer (C & R), Electric Supply Circle,
 Jamshedpur, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Office at
 Vikas Bhawan, P.O. & P.S. Adityapur, Dist. Saraikela-
 Kharsawan. 6. Electrical Executive Engineer, Electric Supply Division,-
 Ghatshila, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, P.O. & P.S.
 Ghatshila, Dist. Saraikela, Kharsawan. 7. Assistant Electrical Engineer, Electric Supply Sub -Division, -
 Chakulia, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, P.O. & P.S.
 Chakulia, Dist. East Singhbhum. ...Respondents ------- CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SHREE CHANDRASHEKHAR ------- For the Petitioner : Mr. Navaniti Prasad Singh, Sr. Advocate
 Mr. Dhananjay Kr. Pathak, Advocate
 Mrs. Sweta Rani, Advocate
 Mr. Shashi Kant Mishra, Advocate
 Ms. Naina Mishra, Advocate
 For the Respondents : Mr. Ajit Kumar, Advocate-General
 Mr. Navin Kumar, Sr. S.C
 Mr. Prabhat Singh, S.C ------ 07/05.09.2018 Legality of the provisional assessment order dated
 29.09.2017 has been challenged by the petitioner-M/s Himadri 2 Steel Private Limited. 2. Briefly stated, the petitioner, a company registered
under the Companies Act, 1956 , has been granted electrical
connection under HTSS tariff with contract demand of 3000 KVA,
which was energized on 03.07.2006. On account of a massive
blast in the cubical metering unit there was electricity
break-down in the petitioner's premises which was rectified on
16.06.2017 by a team of the respondent-Nigam's officials and a
report was prepared. The report thus prepared records that
metering unit chamber was slightly damaged, K-phase CT and all
PT were found in proper condition (written as OK), meter reading
was correct and there was proper sealing, however, b-phase CT
which was totally cracked and damaged was replaced. No
evidence of misutilisation or theft of electricity was found. The
meter readings for the previous successive several months or
after June, 2017 record description of meter chamber and the
meter chamber glass and everything seems to be fine till
26.09.2017 when an inspection was carried out at the
petitioner's premises; the meter reading report has been prepared
by a 5-member team of the Nigam's officials. 3. The inspection report dated 26/27.09.2017 has become
centre for controversy in this case. 4. On the basis of a written report of the Assistant
Electrical Engineer, Chakulia P.S. Case No. 30 of 2017 under Section 379 / 420 / 353 I.P.C and under Section 135 / 137 / 138 of
the Electricity Act, 2003 was lodged. On 27.09.2017, the
petitioner has submitted its written objection to the inspection
report dated 26/27.09.2017, however, on 29.09.2017 provisional
assessment under Section 135 of the Electricity Act, 2003 read
with Clause 11.9 of the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Electricity Supply Code) Regulations, 2015 was
passed and the petitioner was directed to pay Rs.3,23,71,524/-
which according to the respondent-Nigam is the amount of loss
caused due to theft of electricity by the petitioner. The petitioner
has pleaded that during investigation no evidence of theft of
electricity was found and accordingly, the police has submitted 3 Final Form No. 39 of 2017 dated 30.11.2017; a
protest-cum-complaint to the Final Form submitted by the police,
however, has been filed on behalf of the Nigam. 5. In the counter-affidavit, the respondents have asserted
that the procedure under the Electricity Supply Code
Regulations, 2015 in case of theft of electricity has been followed
and the provisional assessment order dated 29.09.2017 has been
served upon the petitioner under sub-section (1-A) to Section 135 and that it was not a case of suspected theft rather,
there were arrangements made for theft in such a manner that it
can be easily made or removed at any time and, thus, cannot be
detected in routine inspection. Allegations of non-cooperation
during inspection and non-submission of the production chart
have been made in the counter-affidavit. These allegations have
been denied by the petitioner and it has produced its production
chart. The written notes of argument filed on behalf of the
respondents reiterates the aforesaid stand taken by the
respondents in the counter-affidavit, and a portion of the
judgment in "M/s Shyam Lal Iron and Steel Company Through
One of Its Directors Shri Shambhu Lal Shaw Vs. Jharkhand State
Electricity Board Through Its Chairman, Engineers Bhawan,
Dhurwa, Ranchi and Others" reported in 2013 (3) JLJR 435 has
been quoted extensively to contend that the remedy for the
petitioner on its grievances as projected in the writ petition lies
elsewhere and not in a proceeding under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India. 6. The Electricity Act, 2003 is a special legislation and it
contains few unique features; one being powers vested in the
Special Court constituted under Section 153 to assess civil
liability as well. Chapter XII of the Electricity Act, 2003 deals
with "unauthorized use of electricity". Section 126 provides that
if on an inspection of any place or premises or after inspection of
the equipments, gadgets, machines, devices found connected or
used, or after inspection of records maintained by any person,
the assessing officer comes to the conclusion that such person is
indulging in "unauthorized use of electricity", he shall assess the 4 electricity charges payable by such person or by any other person
benefitted by such use. Section 127 provides a forum for appeal
to any person aggrieved by final order made under Section 126 . Section 135 defines "theft of electricity". It provides an exhaustive
definition of theft of electricity which includes various acts of
interference with meter, tapping of electricity, making or causing
to be made any connection with overhead, underground or
underwater lines or cables, or service wires, or service facilities of
a licensee and tampering of meter, installation or use of
tampered meter etc. It also provides punishment for the first
offender and subsequent conviction, vests powers in the licensee
and the supplier to disconnect electricity, power of search and
seizure, examination or seizure of any books of accounts or
documents and raising a provisional assessment bill. Various
acts of "unauthorized use of electricity" also seem to constitute
offence under Part XIV for which sentence and fine are
prescribed. Section 126 and Section 135 are distinct and
different provisions which operate in different fields and have no
common premise in law [refer " Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation
Limited and Others Vs. Anis Ahmad " reported in (2013) 8 SCC
491]. The cases covered under Section 126 are those in which
electricity was consumed in variation of the terms and conditions
of supply leading to malpractices and mens rea is not an
essential ingredient under Section 126 , whereas for finding a
case of theft mens rea is one of the relevant factors. Part XIV of
the Electricity Act, 2003 provides a complete mechanism how
cases of theft of electricity have to be dealt with. Part XIV seems
to be a complete code in itself. Section 135 reads as under : Provided that in a case where the load abstracted,
consumed, or used or attempted abstraction or attempted consumption
or attempted use- 7. Challenge to the provisional assessment order dated
29.09.2017 is founded on two grounds, namely; it is without
jurisdiction, and illegal. 8. Powers of the authorized officer to make the provisional
assessment order are not hedged with any statutory limitations,
though the Electricity Supply Code Regulations, 2015 provide
some procedural safeguards. Obviously, challenge to the
provisional assessment order on the ground that the authorized
officer has no jurisdiction must be grounded on lack of
jurisdictional facts. It is now settled that jurisdiction of the Court
to entertain a suit or an application depends upon the averments
contained in the plaint or the claim application and not on the
defence taken by the other party [refer " Sanwarmal Kejriwal Vs.
Vishwa Co-operative Housing Society Ltd. and Others " reported in
(1990) 2 SCC 288]. A jurisdictional fact is one on existence or 7 non-existence of which depends assumption or refusal to assume
jurisdiction by a Court, tribunal or an authority [refer "Shrisht
Dhawan (SMT) Vs. M/s Shaw Brothers" reported in (1992) 1 SCC
534]. It has been held that if the jurisdictional facts do not exist
the Court or tribunal or the authority cannot act, and if existence
of jurisdictional facts has wrongly been assumed, a writ of
certiorari would lie. 9. In the context of sub-section (1-A) to Section 135 of the
Electricity Act, 2003, jurisdictional facts which must appear in
the inspection report are those facts which connect the consumer
to the theft of electricity. 10. Scheme under sub-section (1-A) seems to run like this: 11. Sub-section (1-A) begins with the expression "without
prejudice to the provisions of this Act". The expression "without
prejudice" has occurred at two places in Section 135 (1-A). What
meaning can be assigned to "without prejudice" is a matter of
interpretation which is capable of variation according to its uses.
But generally it is meant as a declaration that rights and
privileges of the party concerned are not waived or lost, except
what has been expressly conceded or admitted. The expression
"without prejudice" has been used in sub-section (1-A) to carve
out an exception, an exception to the duty to supply electricity
under Section 43 and not to disconnect supply of electricity if a
defaulter deposits an amount equal to the sum claimed from him
under Section 56 , to immediately disconnect the supply of
electricity upon detection of theft of electricity. Sub-section (1-A)
is followed by three proviso. It is well known that a "proviso"
restricts operation of the main provision. The first proviso to 8 sub-section (1-A) confers a power upon the licensee or supplier or
any other officer of the licensee or supplier as authorized by the
Appropriate Commission for the purpose of sub-section (1-A)
which runs counter to the obligations under Section 43 and Section 56 . Power to immediately disconnect the supply of
electricity upon detection of theft of electricity is, thus, a special
power authorized by law. The first proviso provides that for the
purpose of sub-section (1-A) only officer of the licensee or
supplier who are authorized by the Appropriate Commission or
any other officer of the licensee or supplier, but of the rank
higher than the rank so authorized by the Appropriate
Commission only can disconnect the supply line of electricity.
Under the second proviso officer of the licensee or supplier is
under an obligation to lodge a complaint in writing relating to the
commission of theft of electricity in the police station having
jurisdiction, within twenty-four hours from the time of
disconnection of the supply of electricity. The third proviso
provides respite to the consumer which has suffered
disconnection of the supply of electricity on an allegation of theft
of electricity. It again puts an obligation on the licensee or
supplier, as the case may be, to restore the supply line of
electricity within forty-eight hours of deposit of the provisional
assessment bill. The third proviso also finds the expression
"without prejudice" in it. It reads as under : 12. It is thus apparent that under the scheme of
sub-section (1-A) the starting point is inspection. It is the
inspection report which would reveal that theft of electricity has
been detected in course of inspection. It is therefore necessary
that the inspection report must reveal and record the evidences
collected during the inspection on the basis of which the
authorized officer has recorded its satisfaction that it is a case of
theft of electricity. Under Regulation 11 .5 the authorized officer is 9 required to prepare a report in which any irregularity, if noticed,
such as tampered meter, artificial means adopted for theft of
energy, must be recorded. Regulation 11 .6 provides that the
report shall clearly indicate whether sufficient evidence
substantiating the fact that theft of energy was found or not, and
the details of such evidences must also be recorded therein. 13. The learned Advocate-General has contended that it is
the subjective satisfaction of the authorized officer on the basis of
which the provisional assessment order for theft of electricity is
made and the Court in the writ jurisdiction would not review
subjective satisfaction of the authorized officer. 14. Admittedly, it is the inspection report which forms basis
for the provisional assessment order in the case of theft of
electricity and while so, subjective satisfaction of the authorized
officer must reflect in the inspection report. What the authorized
officer has found and what is his opinion must be reduced in
writing in the inspection report. It is not like this; that it can be
inferred from the inspection report that theft of electricity has
occurred and therefore supply line disconnected and a First
Information Report lodged. De hors the observations in the
inspection report, if a First Information Report is lodged, it would
not confer powers and jurisdiction upon the authorized officer to
make an order of provisional assessment. This assumes
significance also for the reason that the authorized officer who
has passed provisional assessment order may not be the one who
has carried out the inspection. Section 135 itself creates two
separate class of officers of the licensee and the supplier. The
officers of the licensee or supplier, as the case may be, who may
disconnect the supply of electricity under sub-section (1-A) are
those who are authorized for this purpose by the Appropriate
Commission (first proviso), whereas officers of the licensee and
the supplier who may enter, inspect, break-open, search any
place or premises are those who are authorized in this behalf by
the State Government (sub- section 2 ). It may be so, that the
officers authorized by the Appropriate Commission are the
officers authorized by the State Government also, but then a 10 converse may also occur. If the officer who has conducted
inspection of the consumer's premises and prepared the
inspection report is not the one who has passed the provisional
assessment order, and, if the inspection report does not furnish
the details of theft of electricity, it cannot be contemplated in law
that, still, the authorized officer would have jurisdiction to
proceed to make provisional assessment of loss suffered due to
theft of electricity. The fact, that the officer authorized by the
Appropriate Commission has disconnected the supply line of
electricity and lodged a First Information Report, cannot be read
into the inspection report so as to confer jurisdiction upon the
authorized officer to pass provisional assessment order. 15. Therefore, it is the inspection report and the inspection
report alone which must record the jurisdictional facts so as to
clothe the authorized officer with powers and jurisdiction to pass
a provisional assessment order. It is not sufficient that under
sub-section (1-A) the authorized officer has powers and
jurisdiction to pass a provisional assessment order and the
officer making the assessment order is authorized by law;
jurisdictional facts must appear from the inspection report. If it
is held that since a First Information Report has been lodged and
therefore the authorized officer has powers to make provisional
assessment, such an interpretation would lead to uncertainty
and would confer unbridled powers upon the officers of the
licensee or supplier, as authorized by the Appropriate
Commission, to lodge a First Information Report and raise
provisional assessment bill. Only if the inspection report records
a finding on the theft of electricity and gives details of the
evidences collected during the inspection which unerringly
disclose theft of electricity, irrespective of the obligation to lodge a
First Information Report within twenty-four hours of
disconnection of electricity as provided under second proviso to
sub-section (1-A), the provisional assessment order can be
sustained. A plain reading of the third proviso makes it apparent
that a provisional assessment order can be made prior to
registration of a First Information Report. Under the Electricity 11 Supply Code Regulations, 2015, however, a provisional
assessment order can be made even after registration of a First
Information Report, but, that is when the procedure for
"suspected case of theft" is adopted. 16. Under the Electricity Act, 2003 against the provisional
assessment order passed under sub-section (1-A) no appeal is
provided, as in case of an assessment under Section 126 . In
contra-distinction to the procedure laid down under Section 126 ,
sub-section (1-A) does not provide a right of hearing to the
consumer, nor the consumer has an opportunity to object to the
provisional assessment order. The first opportunity to a
consumer to object to the provisional assessment order arrives
when the Special Court under Section 154(5) proceeds to
determine the civil liability against a consumer in terms of money
for theft of energy. Third proviso to sub-section (1-A), however,
makes an offer to the consumer to seek resumption of supply of
electricity on payment of the assessed amount. Definition of
"theft of electricity" under Section 135 is so wide and expansive
that it seems to include every incidence of unauthorized use of
electricity. Proviso to sub-section (1)(ii) puts a reverse burden on
the consumer. Now, in this background of the statutory scheme
under Section 135 it cannot be contended that the Courts must
keep any challenge to the subjective satisfaction of
the authorized officer at bay. Apparently, drastic measures
are provided under sub-section (1-A). If such drastic
powers - disconnection of supply of electricity, lodging of a First
Information Report, provisional assessment order and
resumption of supply of electricity only on payment of the
assessed amount - are to be exercised by the authorized officer,
it must be grounded on relevant considerations. 17. Object behind the drastic measures provided under
sub-section (1-A) is to discourage and prevent theft of electricity
and, in turn, to minimize revenue loss to the Electricity
Boards/Nigams. Section 135 is a penal provision but given the
object behind Part XIV as a whole, sub-section (1-A) needs what
the Supreme Court calls "a wholesome interpretation", that is to 12 say, a fine balance between literal and purposive construction
[refer " State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Brijesh Singh Alias Arun Kumar
and Another " reported in (2017) 10 SCC 779]. Keeping in mind
the legislative intendment while wide amplitude has to be given
to the expression or a provision under Chapter XIV, but at the
same time strict compliance of the procedural aspects must be
enforced. Raising a bogey of "theft of electricity" if without any
evidence and without recording its satisfaction on detection of
theft of electricity by the authorized officer a consumer is forced
to pay the provisional assessment bill as a condition for
resumption of supply of electricity, the basic and fundamental
right of a consumer "to know" is denied to him. 18. Conspectus of the aforesaid statutory provisions reveals
that registration of a First Information Repot is a subsequent
event, the basic document is the inspection report which must
speak the facts. Theft of electricity must be visible on a bare
reading of the inspection report. In short, theft of electricity must
be apparent. If it requires a strenuous exercise to "infer" that it
is a case of theft of electricity, the matter shall be first
investigated and then decided in the trial, but, before that for
raising a provisional assessment bill the authorized officer cannot
raise a presumption, which otherwise cannot be raised in law at
this stage, so as to vest in itself a power to pass provisional
assessment order. Even if the magic words "theft of electricity
has been detected" are missing in the inspection report, with
bare eyes one must be able to read that, "yes it is a case of theft
of electricity". 19. At the first blush, such an interpretation of
sub-section (1-A) may seem incongruous; registration of a First
Information Report on the allegation of theft of electricity is a fact
which exists either before or after an order of provisional
assessment has been made, but once distinction between
criminal liability and civil liability is kept in mind things become
clear. Any interference with the provisional assessment order is
permissible only on the ground that it is without jurisdiction or
wholly illegal, whereas considerations for quashment of a First 13 Information Report are different. Of course, it cannot be said with
certainty, or in absolute terms, that interference with the
provisional assessment order would have no bearing on
sustainability of the First Information Report, on an
apprehension of prejudice that may be caused to the pending
trial, challenge to the provisional assessment order on these
limited grounds cannot be wished away. If facts of a case are
such that on a similar ground a First Information Report lodged
against a consumer on an allegation of theft of electricity can be
quashed, the law must take its own course, but then interference
with the provisional assessment order should not be confused
with quashment of a First Information Report; considerations at
this stage are quite different. 20. On the aforesaid premises, it is held that irrespective of
registration of a First Information Report for theft of electricity, it
is the inspection report prepared on detection of theft of
electricity under sub-section (1-A) to Section 135 of the
Electricity Act, 2003 which alone confers powers and jurisdiction
upon the authorized officer to pass an order on provisional
assessment of loss suffered by the Board/Nigam on account of
theft of electricity. 21. Reverting back to the facts of the case, it is pertinent to
record that the inspection report dated 26/27.09.2017 does not
record satisfaction of the authorized officer on theft of electricity.
The report prepared on the inspection of the petitioner's premises
on 26.09.2017 records that all the seals were found intact,
however, it takes exception to installation of the cubical metering
unit in a metal sheet room covered by metal sheet which makes
easy approach to the CT PT of the metering cubical. In this report
it was observed that the nut in which GPC seal is used to affix
the wires is found welded at mid-point and this weilding enables
the removal of the seal to short the CT terminal without
disturbing the seals. The inspecting team has also found two
holes in the meter chamber and the cover of the meter chamber
can be opened easily without breaking the glass. On the
inspection report the petitioner's representative has lodged 14 protest that: (i) there is no weilding on the nut, (ii) earlier also
there had been blast in the cubical metering, which is very old,
and was twice repaired, (iii) door cannot be opened without
opening plastic seal, (iv) all plastic seals (paper seal) were found
correct, plastic seal may be checked, and (v) joint inspection be
made by the officer of Board and the office bearer of Chamber. 22. The procedure provided under the Regulations in case of
"theft of electricity" requires the authorized officer to prepare a
report under Regulation 11 .5 to record details of connected load,
condition of meter seals, condition of meter and irregularities, if
any, noticed at the time of inspection such as, tempered meter,
artificial means adopted for theft of energy. Provisions under
Regulation A11 which deal with theft and unauthorized use of
electricity read as under: If, however, the period during which such theft of electricity has taken
place cannot be ascertained, such period shall be limited to 12 months
immediately preceding the date of inspection. The period of assessment
may be arrived at after taking into consideration the following guidelines
or any combination thereof or any other evidence which may be
provided by the consumer: 11.10 After establishing the duration period of theft, the Authorised
Officer shall prepare an assessment order on applicable tariff as per the Electricity (Amendment) Act, 2007 and any subsequent amendments,
and serve on the person under proper receipt. 11.11 In case of a regular metered connection, where a case of theft of
electricity is detected, units allowed to be recorded in the meter for
which bills have been raised by the Distribution Licensee to the person
during the period, for which the assessment is made, shall be duly
credited to the consumer. 11.12 In case of suspected theft, the Authorised Officer shall remove the
old meter under a seizure memo and seal it in the presence of the
consumer or his authorised representative and the Authorised Officer
and the consumer have to sign on the seal borne on the meter. The
Distribution Licensee or supplier shall continue the supply to the
consumer with a new meter. The old meter shall be tested in the
presence of the consumer and the Authorised Officer at the Distribution
Licensee's testing lab which shall give a test report, in writing, which
along with photographs/video graphs shall constitute evidence thereof.
The Authorised Officer shall record reasons to suspect theft in the
premises in his report: Now, in this state of affairs which unerringly disclose absence of
jurisdictional facts in the inspection report so as to authorize the 18 authorized officer to make a provisional assessment order, on a
plea that it can be inferred on a meaningful reading of the
inspection report read along with clause (b) and (c) of the
sub-section (1) to Section 135 that it is a case of theft of
electricity, the provisional assessment order cannot be sustained. 26. An alternative plea for challenging the provisional
assessment order dated 29.09.2017 has been raised by
Mr. Navaniti Prasad Singh, the learned Senior counsel for the
petitioner. It is contended that the respondents themselves have
recorded in the inspection report and also in the written report
that it is a case of suspected theft and therefore the procedure
under Regulation 11 .12 onwards should have been followed by
them and since the procedure prescribed under the Electricity
Supply Code Regulations, 2015 has not been followed, fall out of
the same is that the provisional assessment order must go. To
fortify this contention the learned Senior counsel for the
petitioner has relied on decision in " Hukam Chand Shyam Lal Vs.
Union of India and Others ." reported in (1976) 2 SCC 128. On
calculation of the loss caused to the Nigam on account of theft of
electricity, the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has
referred to Regulation 11 .9(c) to demonstrate that on account of
serious error in the method of calculation the provisional
assessment order dated 29.09.2017 warrants interference. 27. Stand taken by the respondent-Nigam is that the
consumer like the petitioner on its own cannot decide that it is a
case of suspected theft. 28. Whether it is a case of theft or a case of suspected theft
of electricity, at this stage a finding on this issue cannot be
recorded by this Court. The expression used in the inspection
report and the written report certainly leaves it open to an
interpretation that the respondents themselves thought that it is
a case of suspected theft, but then they have lodged a First
Information Report on the allegation of theft of electricity. In fact,
under the Electricity Act, 2003 there can be only two situations;
unauthorized use of electricity or theft of electricity. Under the
Electricity Supply Code Regulations, 2015, however, a third kind 19 of situation has been conceived. It contemplates also a situation
 where the materials found in course of the inspection do not,
 with certainty, disclose direct theft of electricity. Case pleaded by
 the respondents in the counter-affidavit is that the case against
 the petitioner is of direct theft of electricity. In the aforesaid facts,
 any opinion or finding on merits of the rival contentions on this
 issue would amount to pre-judging the issue. 29. On error of calculation in the provisional assessment
 order, all that is required to be recorded is that previous to the
 inspection carried on 26.09.2017 petitioner's premises were
 inspected on 04.09.2017 and on that day theft of electricity was
 not detected by the Nigam's officials. Under Regulation 11 .9(c)
 assessment of loss according to the assessment formula vide
 Annexure-19 to the Regulations shall be for the actual period
 from the date of previous checking of installation to the date of
 detection of theft, however, a provisional assessment bill has
 been raised for the period between 16.06.2017 to 26.09.2017,
 which on the face of the records must be held wrong. 30. To summerise, the inspection report dated
 26/27.09.2017 does not record the jurisdictional facts so as to
 authorize the authorized officer to make the provisional
 assessment order dated 29.09.2017, and resultantly the
 provisional assessment order dated 29.09.2017 is held void and
 illegal. There is serious error also in calculation of the provisional
 assessment of loss caused to the Nigam. Accordingly, the
 provisional assessment order dated 29.09.2017 is quashed. 31. By an interim order dated 14.03.2018, the
 respondent-Nigam was directed to resume supply of electricity at
 the petitioner's premises on deposit of Rs. 25 Lacs (Rupess
 Twenty Five Lacs). The amount so deposited by the petitioner
 shall be adjusted against the future bill(s) raised by the Nigam, in
 terms of the Regulations. 32. The writ petition is allowed, in the aforesaid terms. (Shree Chandrashekhar, J.)
Amit/Tanuj
 AFR