1.1 The decree holder/respondent/plaintiff Smt. Babita Chawla had 

filed suit No. 216/2000 (new No. 983/09) before the court of Civil Judge, 

Delhi for declaration and for permanent prohibitory injunction against 6 

persons, one of them was Municipal Corporation of Delhi but its name was 

later deleted, the title of the plaint was thus as follows:­ 

 "Smt. Babita Chawla, W/o Sh. Trilok Chawla
 R/o 4/9, Old Double Storey,
 Lajpat Nagar - IV, New Delhi - 110024. ...Plaintiff
 Versus 1. Union of India,
 Through Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development,
 Nirman Bhawan. 2. Land and Development Officer, Nirman Bhawan,
 New Delhi. 3. Municipal Corporation of Delhi
 through its Commissioner, Town Hall,
 Chandani Chowk, Delhi. 4. Mr. Kuldeep S/o Gian Chand, 
 R/o 4/11, Old Double Storey,
 Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi - 110024. 5. Mr. Arjun Dass, S/o Smt. Savitri Devi,
 W/o Sh. Jassa Ram
 R/o 4/13 Old Double Storey,
 Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi - 110024. she is owner of entire Lavatory block situated on the ground floor, adjacent 

to quarter No. 4­ IV/9 Old Old Double Storey, Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi - 110024, as per Scheme and to direct the defendants No. 4 to 6 to hand 

over the peaceful and vacant possession thereof to the plaintiff in exchange 

of additional area allotted to them by defendant No. 1 to 3, which has also 

been occupied and constructed by them vis a vis to restrain defendant No. 4 

to 6 permanently from using common Lavatory Block, adjacent to quarter 

No. 4­ IV/9 Old Old Double Storey, Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi - 110024, 

and from asserting any right, title interest therein. The appellants were ex­

parte in the proceedings before the trial court. By decree/judgment dated 

10.08.2009 by the court of Ms. Ravinder Bedi, JSCC cum ASCJ cum 

Guardian Judge, South, Delhi decreed the suit in favour of plaintiff and 

against the defendants as prayed. The decree holder/plaintiff/respondent 

filed execution petition No. 36/2010. The executing court of Ms. Anu 

Aggarwal, Civil Judge 02, South issued notice on execution petition to the 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 3 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

judgment debtors, inclusive of to the appellants herein. They 

(appellants/Judgment debtors) filed their objections, the same were dealt by 

the executing court in order dated 12.01.2012 and dismissed their 

objections. The appellants assail the impugned order dated 12.01.2012 in 

their present joint appeal. 2.1 The appellants assail the impugned order, by presenting facts 

and record, which is reiteration of the facts and record presented before the 

executing court of Civil Judge, Saket, New Delhi. In nutshell, the appellants' 

appeal and objections revolves around five points. Firstly, the appellant No. 

1 has name and is known by name Sh. Arjun Bulandani but no person by 

name Arjun Bulandani was impleaded in the original suit. Similarly the 

appellant No. 2 has name and is known by name Kuldeep Gulwani but no 

person by name Kuldeep Gulwani was impleaded in the original suit. Whereas, they have interest and right in the suit property. . Secondly, the 

respondent played a fraud on court by impleading one of the defendant No. 

4 as Mr. Kuldeep and another defendant No. 5 Mr. Arjun Dass, in order to 

obtain and secure ex­parte judgment in her favour, for which she 

succeeded. The respondent/decree holder had also filed writ petition No. 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 4 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

2122 of 1994 in Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and one Ms. Kanta was arrayed 

as respondent No. 4 deliberately and falsely, which shows that respondent 

actually played fraud upon the court and misrepresenting the identities of 

the parties, for which she has not right to seek relief on the principle of 

equity Thirdly, the appellants were never served with the summons by the 

trial court and the ex­parte order was obtained at the back of appellants, for 

which they are not bound by the decree. The original allottee of property 

bearing No. 04/11, Old Old Double Storey, Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi - 110024 (including Lavatory Block property in question), was originally 

allotted to Sh. Santu Mal (since deceased), he left six legal heirs namely Sh. Ram Chand, Smt. Kamla Devi, Ms. Anita, Sh. Gian Chand, Sh. Vasudev, 

Sh. Manohar Lal i.e., sons, daughter in law and grand daughter, which fact 

was within the knowledge of respondent and appellant No. 2 Sh.Kuldeep 

Gulwani is son of Gian Chand. The said other five persons, as co­owner 

and in possession of said property, have not been impleaded party to the 

suit. Fourthly, by such acts and deeds of respondent, not only the identities 

of appellant was concealed but misrepresented by playing fraud and after 

obtaining ex­parte decree, the same is being executed against the 

appellants, which came to the knowledge of appellants when notice was 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 5 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

received, then record was obtained and inspected, it revealed all the acts 

and deeds of respondent. Fifthly, the appellants filed their objections before 

the executing court, while relying upon provisions of rule 101 of order XXI CPC , which reads as follows, was also not considered:­

Rule 101 of Order XXI CPC ­ "All questions (including questions relating to 
right, title or interest in the property) arising between the parties to a 
proceeding on an application under rule 97 or rule 99 or their 
representatives, and relevant to the adjudication of the application, shall be 
determined by the court dealing with the application and not by a separate 
suit and for this purposes, the curt shall notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, be deemed to 
have jurisdiction to decide such questions." The appellant presented and demonstrated all such facts and 

features before the executing court, however, neither ld. Civil Judge 

appreciated them nor considered the position of law nor law laid down in 

judgments presented, merely passing reference was made. Whereas, the 

appellant ought to have been given an opportunity to lead evidence on the 

points raised, formal issues were to be framed but instead the objections 

were dismissed in a summary way. The respondent had played a fraud but 

the executing court failed to appreciate. It is settled position of law that 

declaratory decree is judgment in personam and not judgment in rem, it 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 6 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

cannot be executed against the appellants who are not party to the suit. The principle of audi altrem partem and of natural justice has not been 

followed by the executing court. As appears, the respondent/plaintiff had 

filed the suit and sought the declaration on the basis of some scheme but it 

was never enforced or implemented by the Union of India or Land and 

Development Office, which appears from the proceedings of Writ Petition 

(C) No. 8113 of 2009 and order dated 13.07.2010 therein, thus no rights have 

emerged or created in favour of respondent to seek declaration or 

possession or prohibitory injunction, but the objections were dismissed 

without affording opportunity. 2.2 During the course of arguments, similar contentions have been 

advanced and appellants fortify their contentions while referring and relying 

upon the following precedents/ case laws:­ 1. Shreenath and Anr vs Rajesh & Ors AIR 1998 SC 1827 - It is held 
 that the expression "any person" under sub­cl. (1) of rule 97 is used 
 deliberately for widening the scope of power so that the Executing 
 Court could adjudicate the claim made in any such application under 
 order XXI rule 97. thus by the use of the words "any person", it 
 includes all person resisting the delivery of possession, claiming right 
 in the property even those not bound by the decree, includes tenants 
 or other persons claiming right on their own including a stranger. MCA No. 02/12 Page 7 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla 2. Inder Singh vs Piara Singh & Anr AIR 1993 P&H 83 - it is held that as 
 per Order XXI rule 35, the possession of the immovable property 
 covered by a decree can be delivered to the decree holder by 
 removing a person bound by the decree only. In other words, a 
 person who establishes that he is not bound by decree passed 
 against any other person, cannot possible be dispossessed in 
 execution of that decree. The executing court is bound to consider 
 the application of a person, in possession, where he was not a party 
 to the decree, before he is dispossessed. 3. Bhagwat Narayan Dwivedi vs Kasturi D/o Ramdayal AIR 1974 MP 26 - it is held that the executing court has no jurisdiction to remove a 
 third party not bound by the decree from possession and deliver 
 possession to the decree holder or auction purchaser, unless and 
 until (a) it holds that such a person is bound by the decree, or (b) it 
 makes an order under Order XXI rule 98 CPC which presupposes the 
 making of a complaint by the decree­holder under order XXI rule 97 of 
 the Code. Further, if the executing court is satisfied that the resistance 
 or obstruction was occasioned by a third person claiming in good faith 
 to be in possession of the property on his own account or on account 
 of some person other than the judgment debtor, then the executing 
 court will refuse to deliver possession to the decree holder and 
 dismiss the application. 4. Nusserwanji E. Poonegar & Ors vs Mrs. Shirinbai F. Bhesania & Ors AIR 1984 Bombay 357 - wherein it was held that issues must be 
 framed, the attention of the parties must be focused upon the points 
 which are to be decided, evidence must to allowed to be led and 
 documents should be allowed to be produced and relied upon. The 
 adjudication under Rule 101 cannot be made on the basis of an 
 affidavit alone unless the parties themselves so desire. Substantial 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 8 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 questions including the questions of title to immovable property of 
 high value are very often involved even in execution proceedings. 
 Further held, that considering all these aspects, one must agree that 
 the proceedings are in the nature of a suit and should be conducted in 
 an appropriate manner. Rule 105 of order XXI only broadly 
 prescribes the outline of the procedure which the court has to follow. 5. Silverline Forum Pvt. Ltd. vs Rajiv Trust & Anr 1998 (3) SCC 723 - 
 held that executing court has a duty to decide that whether the person 
 who is resisting/obstructing to vacate the property is bound by the 
 decree. 6. N.S.S. Narayana Sarma & Ors vs M/s Goldstone Exports (P) Ltd. & 
 Ors AIR 2002 SC 251 - held that when any person claiming title to 
 the property in his possession obstructs the attempt by the decree 
 holder to dispossess him from the said property the executing court is 
 competent to consider all questions raised by the person offering 
 obstruction against execution of the decree and pass appropriate 
 order which under the provisions of Order XXI rule 103 is to be 
 treated as a decree. Further, in rule 101 it is categorically declared 
 that all questions including questions relating to right, title or interest 
 in the property arising between the parties to a proceeding on an 
 application under rule 97 or rule 99 or their representatives and 
 relevant to the adjudication of the application shall be determined by 
 the court dealing with the application and not by a separate suit and 
 for this purpose, the court shall, notwithstanding anything to the 
 contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, be 
 deemed to have jurisdiction to decide such questions. 7. Rajeev Dutta & Ors vs Punjab Wakf Board & Anr AIR 2003 NOC 556 
 (Him Pra) - held that the provisions of Rule 101 are mandatory and 
 provides for inquiry into the question of right, title and interest raised 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 9 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 therein and ambit and scope of such inquiry will depend on the facts 
 and circumstances of each cases i.e., in a case if the question raised 
 can be decided on the basis of admitted and undisputed facts a 
 comprehensive inquiry may not be necessary but in a case where 
 contentious pleas of facts are raised, the executing court is bound to 
 hold a detailed inquiry and permit the parties to lead evidence to 
 prove their rival please based on facts. Further, the enquiry under 
 rule 101 being mandatory the executing court could not and should 
 not have proceed to dismiss the objection petitions without affording 
 any opportunity to the parties to prove their rival averments and that 
 too in the absence of production of proof of the Will set up by the 
 appellants. 8. Ahsan Devi & Anr vs Phulwasi Devi & Ors AIR 2004 SC 511 - held 
 that the legislature purposely amended provisions in order XXI to 
 enable the third parties to seek adjudication of their rights in execution 
 proceedings themselves with a view to curtail the prolongation of 
 litigation and arrest delay caused in execution of decrees. Further, a 
 third party resisting or obstructing the execution of the decree can 
 also seek adjudication of his rights under order XXI rule 97 CPC in 
 the same way as the decree holder. 9. S.P. Chengalvarayanaidu vs Jagannath 1994 (1) SCC 1 - it is held 
 that no equity is to be exercised in favour of person who has played 
 fraud upon the court and the said question can be determined even in 
 collateral proceedings. 10.Kancherla Lakshminarayana vs Mattaparthi Syamala & Ors 2008 (14) 
 SCC 258 - held that the provisions of order XXI rule 58 CPC read 
 with the provisions of order XXI rule 101 CPC spell out the duty of the 
 court to adjudicate all the questions relating to the rights of the parties 
 and that the executing court had failed to consider the provisions in 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 10 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 the proper perspective and it should have decided as to whether the 
 decree between the first the second respondents is a collusive decree 
 merely meant to defeat the right of the appellant. 3. The respondent opposed the appeal vehemently while referring 

the record of original suit and the proceedings before executing court that 

the court had dealt all the aspects in detail in order dated 22.01.2012. Neither the respondent made any misrepresentation nor played any fraud 

either upon the court or on the appellants nor she concealed identities of 

appellant and complete particulars were written in the record and 

notice/summons were issues properly, which were received by the 

appellants under their signatures. They abstained from their appearance in 

the court. Now they cannot took the umbrella of rule 101 of order XXI CPC to say to start de­novo trial, after keeping silent for long period when the suit 

was pending for around a decade. They remained absent and abstained 

from the proceedings at their own wish or peril. In fact the appellant No. 1, 

during the proceedings in appeal also admitted his signatures on the 

summons, which have been duly recorded in the judicial proceedings dated 

19.04.2012 when had been shown receipt of summons, available at page 

No. 407 in the trial court record. The other appellant was also served with 

summons in his name. MCA No. 02/12 Page 11 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 On the one hand the appellants have got additional area and 

occupied it, which was in lieu of exchange of Lavatory Block under the 

Scheme, but they want to deprive the respondent of the suit property, which 

has been decreed in favour of respondent/decree holder. The appeal is 

abuse of process of the court and it is liable to be dismissed. The 

respondent fortifies her contentions while relying upon the following case 

laws: Further, adjudication of objections does not mean that framing of 
 issues is always necessary for the executing court and the term 
 adjudication as used in rules does not start and end with the framing 
 of issues but it requires appreciation of the case of the objector and 
 documents in support of such objections. Thus, framing of issues is 
 not alway necessary and appreciation of pleadings of the objector and 
 his documents means adjudication. 2. M/s Cauvery Coffee Traders, Mangalore vs M/s Hornor Resources 
 (intern.) Co. Ltd. 2011 (4) CCC 723 (S.C) - As per the doctrine of 
 election and rule of estoppel of section 115 of Indian Evidence Act 
 neither one can approbate and reprobate nor to blow hot and cold or 
 fast and loose. A person may be precluded by his actions or conduct 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 12 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 or silence when it is duty to speak from asserting a right which he 
 would have had. 3. State of Punjab vs Sanjogta & Ors Vol. CXXVIII­(2001­`2) The 
 Punjab Law Reporter 610 - held a third party has another remedy to 
 institute an independent civil suit for declaration of its title, claiming 
 therein relief of injunction to protect its possession and bar of rule 101 
 of order XXI CPC is not applicable to it. 4. The executing court in its order dated 12.01.2012 came to the 

conclusion that, firstly, appellant No. 2 was sent the notice on execution 

petition, at the same address where summons for suit was sent and served, 

secondly, the summons were sent in the name of Kuldeep by stating his 

parentage and address, which were duly served upon him, therefore, the 

appellant No. 2 cannot say that he was not served or his name was not 

Kuldeep but Kuldeep Gulwani or he was not arrayed properly. Thirdly, he 

cannot be construed third party since he was a party to the suit and he is a 

judgment debtor, therefore, there were no merits in the objection. Similarly 

objections of appellant No. 1 were dismissed that notice on execution 

petition and summons on suit were sent at the same address, which were 

served upon him vis a vis he is neighbourer of respondent. The name of 

Arujn Dass was mentioned along with C/o Smt. Savitri W/o Sh. Jassa Ram 

and then address of appellant No. 1 and in the same fashion notice on 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 13 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

execution petition were sent and served upon him. He cannot assert or 

claim that for want of summons in his name, as mentioned in the objections, 

he was not a party to the suit or he is to be treated alike third party for the 

purposes of objections. 5. Findings ­ The contentions of both sides are assessed in the light of 

statutory provisions of law and the record of suit No. 983/2009 (216/2000) 

and also record of execution petition No. 36/10. Now the points raised are 

taken one by one. 5.1 The appellants contended one major point in three forms by 

projecting that they are known by name Mr. Arjun Bulandai and Mr. Kuldeep 

Gulwani but their respective names were mentioned in the original suit as 

Arjun Dass and Kuldeep respectively, which amounts to concealment of 

their true identity and the respondent had played fraud upon the court as 

well as on the appellants. However, for the following reasons this major 

point carries no weight:­

 i. The appellants in the present appeal and in their objections are 
 projecting that Kuldeep Gulwani and Kuldeep are two different 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 14 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 persons and Sh. Arjun Bulandani and Arjun Dass are two different 
 personalities. Whereas, their names have been mentioned with 
 parentage and complete address, which were also mentioned in the 
 summons sent to them. Therefore, it is not like this that Kuldeep 
 Gulwani and Kuldeep are two different persons and Sh. Arjun 
 Bulandani and Arjun Dass are two different personalities. ii. Mr. Kuldeep has signed his objections filed before the executing court 
 and he also signed the present appeal, besides Vakalatnama. In the 
 objections dated 06.04.2011 and appeal dated 16.02.2012 and 
 Vakalatnama dated 16.02.2012, at all places he put his signature as 
 "Kuldeep" without his surname. Therefore he himself writes his name 
 as Kuldeep. Further, the trial court summons were served upon him 
 on 09.11.2000 (at page No. 405 in the trial court record) and as per 
 report the process server had inquired the name of Kuldeep S/o Sh. 
 Gian Chand and after confirmation by the addressee, the summons 
 were delivered to him, which the appellant No. 2 acknowledged it 
 under his signature "Kuldeep". There is no dispute of his parentage 
 and address mentioned in the suit as well as narrated by him in the 
 present appeal. iii. Similarly, appellant No. 1 was also sent summons by the trial court 
 and the same were received and acknowledged by him on 
 09.11.2000, which mentions his parentage and address and the 
 process server reports that the summons were delivered after 
 confirming the name of addressee and then it was delivered to him. 
 Further, appellant No. 2 appeared in the court personally and he was 
 shown the summons at page No. 407 (in the trial court file) and he 
 confirmed that the summons were acknowledged by him under his 

MCA No. 02/12 Page 15 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 signatures, the proceedings were also recorded in the appeal file on 
 19.04.2012. iv. To say, on the basis of reasons (i) to (iii) above, that the appellants 
 are the same person, who were not only party in the suit but also the 
 summons were delivered to them and they acknowledged under their 
 signatures. The appellants cannot say that summons were sent to 
 the persons other than the appellants. They also cannot say that their 
 identity was concealed or fraud was played because of want 
 of /mentioning of their surname nor they came to know about the 
 proceedings in the execution petition. v. The appellants abstained to appear in the proceedings after service 
 of summons on them and they were proceeded ex­parte. Had they 
 appeared in the court, they could make all their submissions inclusive 
 on the point of non­joinder of other persons, as projected in the 
 objections or in the present appeal but for want of their appearance 
 there and their absence, now they cannot say that the case 
 proceeded without considering their plea or opportunity of being 
 heard. The court had served them with the notices and thereafter 
 proceeded as summons were also directed before date of hearing on 
 14.11.2000 but they remained unserved. It carries no weight to say 
 that the suit was suffering from non­joinder of others and mis­joinder 
 of appellants. vi. Therefore, considering the aforementioned reasons and the reasons 
 given by the executing court in order dated 12.01.2012, to that extent 
 the order is confirmed. impleaded and they ought to have been given an opportunity to lead 

evidence, after framing formal issues but the objections were dismissed 

summarily in view of settled propositions of law. Whereas, the respondent 

has contrary intentions. For the following reasons, appellants' contentions 

on the point of Scheme and on the point of rule 101 of order XXI CPC are 

declined:­ (a) The appellants had reference of Writ Petition No. 8113 of 2009 that 
 the scheme was non­enforceable or there are some other disputes. 
 Whereas, Union of India and L&D Office, Nirman Bhawan 
 (defendants No. 1 and 2 in the suit) have given complete detail by 
 reference to various writ petitions inclusive of W.P. No. 1703 of 1991 
 under the title C­Type Double Storey Non­Corner Quarters Residents' 
 Welfare Association vs Union of India and order dated 29.05.1992 that 
 number of suits were pending before the subordinate courts and let 
 the matter be decided by these courts. There are also guidelines 
 dated 11.11.1983 with regard to Scheme. To say, the appellants are 
 projecting as if the Scheme is non­existent or non­est but it is not so. (b) It is not mandatory requirement of law to frame formal issues and 
 record the evidence under the provisions of rule 101 order XXI CPC , it 
 depends on the circumstances of each case. Since the present 
 appellants were party/defendants in the original suit and they were 
 served with the summons, therefore, the trial court has rightly not 
 recorded the formal issues or evidence, since it would have been re­

MCA No. 02/12 Page 17 
 Arjun Bulandani & Anr vs Babita Chawla

 opening of case/de­novo trial under the objections of appellant in 
 execution proceedings. Whereas, the appellants could have 
 participated in the proceedings of trial court. (c) The appellants were very well aware of the trial from the very 
 inception, it cannot be construed that they came to know from the 
 proceedings/notice on execution petition about the impugned 
 decree/judgment. (d) In view of the discussion, analysis and reasons (a) to (c) above, the 
 findings of executing court in order dated 12.01.2012 on other points is 
 also confirmed. 6. Thus, appeal is dismissed and impugned order dated 

12.01.2012 is confirmed. The trial court record of original suit No. 983/09 

and record of execution petition No. 36/2010 be returned to the trial court 

and executing court respectively along with the copy of present judgment. The appeal record is consigned to record room. Vide separate judgment announced today, appeal is 

dismissed and impugned order dated 12.01.2012 is confirmed. The trial 

court record of original suit No. 983/09 and record of execution petition No. 

36/2010 be returned to the trial court and executing court respectively along 

with the copy of present judgment. The appeal record is consigned to 

record room.