The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has acknowledged the potential of Big Tech and AI to innovate in the Indian financial sector, in its Report on Currency and Finance 2023-24 . Particularly, it has shown enthusiasm for the collaborations between big technology companies, Indian banks, and Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), and the production of AI technologies in India. However, the RBI has also charted out the various risks posed by these new technologies.

The Central Bank has noted that Big Tech companies could become a dominating force in the financial market. It has also stated that AI could negatively impact the job market, especially middle-tier jobs.

On the benefits and challenges of Big Tech collaborations in India’s financial sector

The RBI states that integrations between financial services and non-financial Big Tech platforms can have a positive impact on the Indian financial sector. According to the RBI, these collaborations have the potential to give rise to financial innovations and enhance user experience.

Big Tech platforms, with their large user base, have the benefit of network externalities i.e. the demand for their product is high due to its large user base associated with perceived quality.  This allows the platform to accumulate more data, which helps it innovate and provide more services, which in turn attracts more users and perpetuates the cycle.

The RBI noted the growing presence of Big Tech in embedded finance and lending. The rising adoption of e-commerce in India suggests a demand for embedded finance in India. Similarly, Big Tech can also capture the lending market due to their access to resources. Big Tech companies can rely on machine learning for credit risk assessment. This is particularly useful in a country like India, where a traditional credit scoring system is rare due to scarcity of information and the demand for lending without collateral is high. The RBI has acknowledged that stringent banking regulations could set back the credit activities of such companies.

However, the Big Tech companies can be a threat to the financial sector in India. They could become ‘too big to fail’ and dominate markets. Further, they can exploit their access to extensive data to favour their own products. They can also reduce competition by bundling and cross-subsidising their products and making it so that financial institutions can access prospective clients only via their platforms.

Their collaborations with Indian Financial institutions may also create challenges. In the lending sector, Big Tech may encourage excessive risk-taking. This can happen especially when the Big Tech company is responsible for the customer-facing aspect and not the underwriting aspect. This could have a much more adverse impact on NBFCs and Banks than on the Big Tech companies.

On the role of AI in growing India’s digital trade opportunities

The RBI has also considered the benefits and challenges of AI. The Central Bank views AI as an asset for India at the global level. It noted that AI has the highest relative AI-skill penetration rate and the largest increase in AI talent between 2016 and 2023. It encourages leveraging this talent. The Bank suggested incorporating augmented reality (AR)/virtual reality (VR) and AI-ML technologies in the education sector, to create AI specialists in non-software domains that can build domain-specific AI models for tailor-made use by organisations. They stated that India is in an “advantageous position” to develop LLMs suited to the Eastern world, especially for culturally similar regions like South and Southeast Asia.

Further, it views India as a potential production hub for AI. It noted that the number of Global Capacity Centers (GCCs) in India has also increased by around 60% since 2015- 16 to reach more than 1580 in 2022-23, and the number is expected to reach 2400 by 2030. AI can significantly boost India’s digital trade as it has become a preferred destination for GCCs, the central bank said.

On the risks of integrating AI in the financial sector

The Central Bank acknowledged that AI and Large Language Models can have a positive impact on the banking and financial sector. AI can significantly impact the banking industry by improving operational efficiency and better risk management.

While the integration of AI in financial services seems inevitable in India, the RBI has charted out the many challenges that AI poses.

Privacy: The Central Bank noted that AI and its reliance on data can pose a privacy risk to many Indians.

Labour : The RBI noted financial labour has become increasingly decentralized, depending heavily on outsourcing and telework. Further, the use of AI in financial services has automated a lot of routine functions. The RBI stated that this can widen the gap between the capital and labour returns, and create a “fragmented labour market with low-skill low-pay and high-skill/high-pay jobs, while middle tier jobs are displaced by technology.”

Algorithmic Bias : The increased use of AI algorithms by financial institutions could create challenges such as a lack of explainability, potential discriminatory biases, and false signals. Further, algorithms used to underwrite loans could potentially accumulate risks and fail to evolve their underwriting standards. Quantum computing could also be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks.

The RBI also stated ten principles to design responsible and ethical AI solutions for financial services. They are fairness; transparency; accuracy; consistency; data privacy; explainability; accountability; robustness; monitoring and updating; and human oversight.

Risks: The RBI has also acknowledged risks posed by model hallucinations and digital disinformation and misinformation. They have noted that AI has reputational risks and could pose ethical and moral dilemmas.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event