1. The Complainant/Appellant filed an RTI application dated 08.05.2023 seeking
information on the following points: (v) Whether SBI Credit Card department has received any communication from
 Cyber Crime Police Station on the above-mentioned subject and action taken, if
 any. 2. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 22.05.2023 and the same is reproduced as under:- 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Complainant/Appellant
filed a First Appeal dated 27.05.2023. The FAA vide order dated 13.06.2023 upheld the
reply given by the CPIO. 4. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Complainant/Appellant approached the
Commission with the instant Complaint/Second Appeal dated 29.07.2023. 5. The Complainant/Appellant was present during the hearing in person and on behalf
of the Respondent, Kalyan Kishore, DGM & CPIO attended the hearing through video
conference along with Rashmi Arora, AVP-Litigation, SBI Cards attending the hearing in
person. 6. The Complainant/Appellant stated that he has received the information from the SBI
Cards, but wanted to question as to how can the said entity claim to be not a public
authority. 7. The Respondent, Kalyan Kishore, DGM & CPIO endorsed the reply of 22.05.2023
provided by their office while the representative present from SBI Cards & Payment
Services Limited submitted that the desired information was sent to the
Complainant/Appellant on 12.06.2023. 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observes that the Complainant/Appellant filed the
instant appeal and complaint on grounds of non-receipt of the desired information and
sought for action and directions to be issued against SBI, Mumbai. Pertinently, so, the
email vide which the information was provided to the Complainant/Appellant on
12.06.2023 is also predating the date of the instant Complaint/Appeal which renders the
basis of these cases to be misconceived and prima-facie false since the
Complainant/Appellant has not challenged the role of the Respondent for not having
provided him with the sought information at the time of the hearing. Rather, the Appellant
seeks to raise a fresh issue for consideration i.e. of wanting to question the stance of SBI
Cards to be not a public authority, which is not a maintainable ground as the RTI
Application in the instant matter was filed with a public authority, who in turn has dealt
with the same in line with the provisions of the RTI Act . 9. The Appeal and Complaint are hereby dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Anandi Ramalingam) (आनंदी रामिलंगम)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 िदनांक/Date: 26.11.2024

Authenticated true copy

Col S S Chhikara (Retd) कनल एस एस िछकारा, ( रटायड)
 Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: