CRL.M.A. 3256/2024 Exemption allowed, subject to just exceptions. Application stands disposed of. W.P.(CRL) 350/2024 & CRL.M.A. 3257/2024 1. Petition under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been
 preferred on behalf of the petitioner for setting aside the order dated
 02.11.2023 passed by learned ASJ/SPL. FTC in SC No.126/2022 whereby
 the application filed on behalf of the petitioner for further investigation in
 FIR No.127/2021 under section 376 IPC registered at PS: Connaught Place Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 350/2024 Page 1 of 4 By:DINESH CHANDRA Signing Date:05.02.2024 20:12:16 has been dismissed. 2. Issue notice. Learned ASC for the respondent/State appears on
 advance notice and accepts notice. 3. In brief, as per the facts noticed in the impugned order, the petitioner
 came in contact with prosecutrix through a 'Dating App' and both started
 communicating with each other. Eventually, both of them entered into
 sexual relationship, which the prosecutrix alleged to be on 'promise of
 marriage' by the petitioner. Prosecutrix further alleged that she got pregnant
 and thereafter the petitioner blocked her mobile number and also allegations
 of abuse and criminal intimidation were levelled. 4. An application preferred on behalf of the petitioner before the learned
 Trial Court for conduct of further investigation qua the angle of honey
 trapping and extortion by the prosecutrix, stands dismissed by the learned
 Trial Court. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner/accused submits that the
 investigating agency seized only one of the mobile phones which was in
 possession of the prosecutrix, while the other mobile phone being used by
 the prosecutrix on which WhatsApp messages were exchanged, was not
 seized during the course of investigation. As such, it is submitted that an
 important aspect of investigation has been overlooked and not collected by
 the investigating agency. 6. On the other hand, learned ASC for the State submits that the other
 mobile phone on which WhatsApp messages are alleged to have been
 exchanged could not be seized as the complainant/prosecutrix claimed that
 the same belonged to her friend. Further despite efforts, the same could not
 be seized. 7. The application preferred by the petitioner has been dismissed by
 learned trial court observing that the same is devoid of merits and abuse of
 process of Court, merely to pressurize the prosecutrix. It is noticed that no
 complaint of extortion was made by the petitioner and there is no iota of
 allegation to substantiate the case that the prosecutrix is a member of gang
 of honey trapping. It is further observed that the purpose of further
 investigation is not to prove or establish the defence of the accused. 8. It is well settled that where chargesheet has been filed by the police
 under Sub section 2 of Section 173 of CrPC, the police can undertake further
 investigation in respect of the offence, under Sub section 8 of section 173 CrPC. The objective for 'further investigation' remains to find the truth and
 bring evidence on record for ensuring substantial justice. However, this right
 does not extend for mere 'reinvestigation' or 'fresh investigation' to be
 started ab initio. If the circumstances deserve for a further investigation, the
 power of the jurisdictional court to direct the police to conduct further
 investigation cannot have any inhibition and the same is not ruled out
 merely because cognizance has been taken by the Court. Whether further
 investigation should or should not be directed is within the discretion of the
 jurisdictional court which exercises the discretion on the facts of each case,
 before the trial actually commences by framing of charge. A fair trial is the
 imperative in dispensation of justice. 9. In the instant case, if any WhatsApp messages were exchanged
 between the petitioner with the prosecutrix, the same must have been also
 recorded even on the 'WhatsApp' of the petitioner's device. The aforesaid
 messages can be duly looked into or brought to notice of court, if deemed
 appropriate by the petitioner during evidence. Merely, on the basis of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 350/2024 Page 3 of 4 By:DINESH CHANDRA Signing Date:05.02.2024 20:12:16 allegation that the prosecutrix may be a member of gang of 'honey trapping'
 or the second mobile phone used by prosecutrix may contain some evidence
 of extortion, does not appeal to direct further investigation under Sub-
 section (8) of Section 173 Cr.P.C. In view of above, no grounds are made
 out to direct further investigation as prayed by the petitioner. However, the
 cost of Rs.20,000/- directed to be deposited by the petitioner vide impugned
 order is set aside. Petition is accordingly disposed of. A copy of this order be forwarded to the learned trial court for
 information. (ANOOP KUMAR MENDIRATTA)
 JUDGE
 FEBRUARY 1, 2024/v Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 350/2024 Page 4 of 4 By:DINESH CHANDRA Signing Date:05.02.2024 20:12:16