DR. ASHOK KUMAR MISHRA, TECHNICAL MEMBER 1. The Appeal has been filed by the Appellant under Section 53B

 R/w Section 26(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 (for short 'Act)

 against the impugned order dated 01.06.2017 passed by the

 Competition Commission of India (for short 'CCI') in Case No. 99

 of 2016. 2. The Appellant has prayed the following reliefs: 3. The Appellant - Shri Vinod Kumar Gupta, Chartered Accountant,

 representing a society, named, Fight for Transparency Society.

 As per the submission of the learned counsel for the Appellant

 that the main objective of society is to bring the voice of people at

 large before the appropriate judicial forums for protection of their

 rights and secure social justice etc. 4. The brief facts of the case as stated by the Appellant is as follows: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 2 of 58 g. They have stated that Predatory Pricing is conspiracy

 speculative in nature, where conspirators sustain substantial

 loss in present to reap uncertain gains in future. It was held

 in Brooke Group Ltd Vs. Brown & Willamson Tabacco Corpn,

 it was held that Predatory price conduct consists in a business

 rival pricing its product in an unfair manner with an object to

 eliminate or retard competition and thereby gaining and

 exercising control over prices in the relevant market. The

 Plaintiff must prove: 5. The Deputy Director law CCI/Respondent No.1 has stated that

 the impugned order dated 01.06.2017 of the CCI is being Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 17 of 58 reiterated to supplement its stands and augmented it by stating

 that the order of CCI is quite elaborated and brings out the

 reasons and logic for arriving at the findings. Accordingly, it

 appears that the CCI has covered in its order under Section 26(2) of the Act which commences from formulating the issue resulting

 from the input provided by 'Informant' who is primarily aggrieved

 by the alleged abusive conduct of the WhatsApp/OP in

 compelling the users through changed in its terms of service and

 privacy policy, to share their accounts details and other

 information with Facebook etc. covering the provisions of Section

 4 of the Act. To bring out a clarity of the impugned order, it is

 prudent to extract para 10 to 20 the said order passed by the CCI

 on 01.06.2017. 10. In order to arrive at a decision in this matter, it is to be

 determined is whether the OP has infracted the provisions

 of Section 4 of the Act. However, determination of the said

 issue requires delineation of relevant market, assessment

 of the position of dominance of the OP in the relevant market

 and examination of the alleged abusive conduct of the OP

 in terms of Section 4 of the Act in case it is found to be in a

 dominant position in the relevant market. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 18 of 58 11. The Commission notes that as per Section 2(r) of the

 Act, 'relevant market' means the market which may be

 determined by the Commission with reference to the

 'relevant product market' or the 'relevant geographic

 market' or with reference to both the markets. In regard to

 the relevant product market, the Commission notes that

 'WhatsApp', an instant communication app for

 smartphones using standard cellular mobile numbers, is a

 platform for communication through texting, group chats

 and voice and video calls. It is noted that instant

 communication apps cannot be compared with the

 traditional electronic communication services such as text

 messaging, voice calls etc. as provided by various

 telecommunication operators. It is so because unlike

 traditional modes of communication, instant messaging

 using communication apps are internet based and provide

 additional functionalities to the users. For example, users

 of communication apps can see when their contacts are

 online, when they are typing or when they last accessed

 the application. Further, instant communication apps can

 be used through smartphones only whereas traditional

 electronic communication services can be used through any Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 19 of 58 mobile phone. There are also differences in the pricing

 conditions in both the above said modes of communication.

 'WhatsApp' is a free to download communication

 application which does not charge any fee from its users for

 providing the services and just uses internet connection on

 the device to send instant messages, connect voice calls etc.

 Further, text messaging through traditional modes can be

 done between people who do not use the mobile service of

 the same service provider, whereas instant messaging

 services typically require you and your contacts to be on the

 same communication application platform. Thus, the

 Commission is of the view that the relevant product market

 in this case may be considered as 'the market for instant

 messaging services using consumer communication apps

 through smartphones'. 12. With regard to the relevant geographic market, the

 Commission observes that the functionality provided by

 consumer communication apps through smartphones is

 inherently cross-border. As consumers are free to install

 any app they want, the geographic scope for either demand

 or supply of consumer communication apps is not limited to

 any particular area where the consumers acquire Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 20 of 58 connectivity to his/ her device. Moreover, the developers

 distribute similar products to all of their customers

 regardless of their geographic location. Further,

 functionality of consumer communication apps through

 smartphones does not differ depending on the region or

 country concerned, either in terms of price, functionalities,

 platforms or operating system. This is consistent with the

 fact that all consumers with access to internet are in

 principle free to download and install any app they want,

 irrespective of their geographic location anywhere in the

 world. However, competitive conditions, regulatory

 architecture and players may vary in different countries/

 regions. Since in the present matter, the allegations of the

 Informant pertain to the alleged anti-competitive conduct of

 'Whatsapp' within the geographic boundary of India and

 the conditions of competition in the market for instant

 messaging services using consumer communication apps

 through smartphones is homogeneous throughout India,

 the Commission is of the view that the geographic area of

 'India' may be considered as the relevant geographic

 market in the instant case. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 21 of 58 13. Considering the relevant product market and the

 relevant geographic market delineated above, the

 Commission is of the view that relevant market in this case

 may be considered as 'the market for instant messaging

 services using consumer communication apps through

 smartphones in India'. 14. On the issue of dominance of the OP in the relevant

 market as defined supra, the Commission notes that in

 India a number of other players such as Apple with

 iMessage, BlackBerry with BBM, Samsung with Chat ON,

 Google with Google Hangouts and Microsoft with Skype are

 providing consumer communication apps and are also

 active in the provisions of smartphone hardware and

 operating systems. Besides, many other consumer

 communication apps providers such as Hike, Viber,

 WeChat and Snapchat are also active in market. As per the

 information available in the public domain, globally

 'WhatsApp' is having a billion monthly active users and

 within India, it is having 160 million monthly active users.

 According to a study of 'Jana and mCent', 97% of the

 smartphone users in India use a communication app daily

 and the most popular is 'WhatsApp', which is installed on Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 22 of 58 96% of devices and has more daily active users than any

 other communication app in India. As per the said report,

 'WhatsApp' is installed in 2.3 times more devices than

 home-grown messaging app Hike. According to a study

 conducted by 'TNS/TNC Connected Life Study 2015', 56%

 of the internet users in India use 'WhatsApp' and 51% use

 'Facebook' every day. Further, amongst India's internet

 users, 'WhatsApp' tops the list of instant messaging apps.

 Further, citing a study conducted by Global Web Index, the

 Informant has submitted that 64% of mobile users in India

 use 'WhatsApp' which is the largest as compared to any

 other mobile messaging app usage. Based on the the above,

 the Commission is of the opinion that the OP is in a

 dominant position in the relevant market as defined under

 para 13 above. 15. With regard to the abusive conduct of the OP in the

 relevant market, it is noted that the Informant has alleged

 that the OP is abusing its dominant position in the relevant

 market by introducing privacy policy which compels its

 users to share their account details and other information

 with 'Facebook'. In this regard, the Commission observes

 that the data sharing terms of the privacy policy of the OP Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 23 of 58 as updated on 25th August, 2016 relate to sharing of users'

 'WhatsApp' account information with 'Facebook' to improve

 the online advertisement and products experiences

 available on user's 'Facebook' page. It is noted that the OP

 provides the option to its users to 'opt out' of sharing user

 account information with 'Facebook' within 30 days of

 agreeing to the updated terms of service and privacy policy.

 Moreover, the OP has submitted that 'Facebook family of

 companies' will use such information for the purpose of

 improving infrastructure and delivery systems,

 understanding how their services are used, securing

 systems, and fighting spam, abuse or infringement

 activities. The Commission also finds force in the

 submission of the OP regarding its users safeguards that

 all types of 'WhatsApp' messages (including chats, group

 chats, images, videos, voice messages and files) and

 'WhatsApp' calls are protected by end-to-end encryption so

 that third parties and 'WhatsApp' cannot read them and

 also the message can only be decrypted by the recipient.

 Further, as stated in the key updates summary of the OP,

 nothing a user shares on 'WhatsApp', including his/ her

 messages, photos, and account information, will be shared Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 24 of 58 onto 'Facebook' or any other apps of 'Facebook family of

 companies' for any third party to see, and nothing a user

 posts on those apps will be shared by 'WhatsApp' for any

 third party to see. 16. The Informant has also alleged that the conduct of the

 OP is in breach of the IT Act, 2000 and the right to privacy. In this regard, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in W.P. (C)

 7663/2016 in the matter of Karmanya Singh Sareen and

 Others Vs. Union of India and Others ; wherein the

 Petitioners, who were the users of WhatsApp, had made

 the prayer that sharing user data of subscribers of

 'WhatsApp' with any entity including 'Facebook' should be

 prohibited and protection and safety of privacy of details/

 data of every kind of user of 'WhatsApp' should be ensured;

 vide its order dated 23rd September, 2016 has observed

 that: guaranteed under our Constitution, a three Judge Bench in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) referred the matter to a larger

 Bench and the same is still pending. 18. Be that as it may, since the terms of service of

 "WhatsApp" are not traceable to any statute or statutory

 provisions, it appears to us that the issue sought to be

 espoused in the present petition is not amenable to the writ

 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 19. However, we have taken note of the fact that under the

 Privacy Policy of "WhatsApp", the users are given an option

 to delete their "WhatsApp" account at any time, in which

 event, the information of the users would be deleted from

 the servers of "WhatsApp". We are therefore, of the view

 that it is always open to the existing users of "WhatsApp"

 who do not want their information to be shared with

 "Facebook" to opt for deletion of their account......." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 26 of 58 17. In the said order the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi had

 also ruled that if the users opt for completely deleting

 'WhatsApp' account before September 25, 2016, the

 information/ data/ details of such users should be deleted

 completely from 'WhatsApp' servers and the same shall not

 be shared with 'Facebook' or any one of its group

 companies. However, against the aforesaid order of the

 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, an appeal was preferred before

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the matter is still pending

 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the above backdrop,

 the Commission is of the view that the allegations of breach

 of the IT Act, 2000 do not fall within the purview of

 examination under the provisions of the Act. 18. Further, the Informant has alleged that by not charging

 any subscription fee since January, 2016 from its users,

 the OP is indulging in predatory pricing. In this regard, the

 Commission observes that there are several other

 applications available in the relevant market which do not

 charge any fee from the users for availing their services for

 instance, Hike, Messenger and Viber are also available for

 free. It appears to be the standard practice in the industry/

 business that all consumer communication apps are not Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 27 of 58 charging any fee from the users. The Commission observes

 that 'WhatsApp' was previously charging subscription fee

 from its users which was subsequently scrapped. This may

 be due to the presence of many other service providers who

 are offering the services for free of cost. Furthermore, from

 the submissions of the OP, the Commission notes that the

 revenue model of the OP is like other players in the

 industry/ business and it is still evaluating the various

 modes that can be used to earn revenues from its services

 by providing value to its customers. 19. The Commission also observes that there are no

 significant costs preventing the users to switch from one

 consumer communication apps to another. It may be due to

 the following reasons: (i) all consumer communication apps

 are offered for free of cost or at a very low price (mostly

 free), (ii) all consumer communication apps are easily

 downloadable on smartphones and can co-exist on the

 same handset (also called 'multi homing') without taking

 much capacity along with other apps, (iii) once consumer

 communication apps are installed on a device, users can

 pass on from one app to its competitor apps in no-time, Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 28 of 58 (iv) consumer communication apps are normally

 characterised by simple user interfaces so that costs of

 switching to a new app are minimal for consumers, and (v)

 information about new apps is easily accessible given the

 ever increasing number of reviews of consumer

 communication apps on apps store like google play store

 etc. Furthermore, the expansion of Hike Messenger to

 nearly 100 million user base within three years of

 launching their services into the aforesaid market reflects

 that in this market, there are no significant barriers to entry

 and consumers appear to be price sensitive. Based on the

 above, the Commission is of the view that even though

 'WhatsApp' appears to be dominant in the relevant market,

 the allegations of predatory pricing have no substance and

 the OP has not contravened any of the provisions of Section

 4 of the Act. 20. In the light of the above analysis, the Commission finds

 that no prima facie case of contravention of the provisions

 of Section 4 of the Act is made out against the OP in the

 instant matter. Accordingly, the matter is closed under the

 provisions of Section 26(2) of the Act." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 29 of 58 6. The Respondent No.2 /Appellant in I.A No. 893 of 2022 brought

 to the notice of this Tribunal on 29th April, 2022 that the 2nd

 Respondent existing name as appearing in the appeal paper book

 so filed originally vide diary no. 2193 dated 31.07.2017 as

 "WhatsApp INC" has been changed into "WhatsApp LLC" w.e.f.

 01.01.2021. 7. It is pertinent to mention that this Tribunal vide its order dated

 29th April, 2022 has allowed IA No. No. 893 of 2022 in the interest

 of justice on the ground that there is no objection from the other

 side as well as on the side of the Appellant even though no

 counter was filed in the said IA. 8. It was submitted by the Ld. Sr. Counsel for the R2, the Appeal is

 erroneous and misconceived and the Appellant has failed to

 produce/ present any evidence before the R1- CCI to establish

 even prima facie that WhatsApp violated the Act. The various

 issues raised/ elaborate explanations/Submissions made by the

 Ld. Sr. counsel including the Written submission filed by the R2

 are enumerated hereunder: e. At the outset, it is important to note that the 2012 Privacy

 Policy of R2 specifically allowed it to (i) amend its privacy

 policy , (ii) share user information with a third party service

 provider "to the extent that is reasonably necessary to

 perform, improve or maintain the WhatsApp Service" and

 "to protect the security or integrity of the WhatsApp site or

 our servers, and to protect the rights property or personal

 safety of WhatsApp, our users or others", and (iii) in case

 of an acquisition or merger of R2 with a third party,

 transfer or assign the information collected from users to

 such third party. These are standard provisions, which

 reserve the commercial rights of any service provider.

 Though the 2012 Privacy Policy allowed R2 to update its

 privacy policy without seeking further user consent, R2

 went above and beyond what was required under the

 Privacy Policy. R2 ensured that all users received clear and

 prominent notice of the Update, including the revised

 Privacy Policy, and an opportunity to consent to the

 Update, if they so choose, by affirmatively accepting the

 Update. Existing users were given thirty days to decide Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 34 of 58 whether to consent voluntarily to the Update by clicking

 "Agree", and new users similarly had to click "Agree

 & Continue." In addition, Respondent No. 2 implemented a

 control that gave existing users the further choice not to

 have their account information used by Facebook, Inc. to

 improve their Facebook advertisements and product

 experiences. It is, therefore, humbly submitted that since

 the Update cannot be said to have been "imposed" by

 Respondent No. 2 on its users, there can be no violation of Section 4(2)(a) of the Competition Act, and this allegation

 should be dismissed on this basis alone. f. That Section 4 of the Competition Act deals with only ex

 post violations of the Competition Act and not with

 theoretical prospective violations that have no basis in fact.

 Therefore, in the absence of evidence of existing effects or

 likely adverse effects on competition, there can be no

 finding of an imposition of an unfair term or condition.

 Further, there is no allegation that the Update excluded or

 foreclosed any other consumer communications

 application, or that there was any harm to consumers /

 users of consumer communications applications, or, for

 that matter, any harm to users of WhatsApp, or otherwise Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 35 of 58 restricted competition in any relevant market in India.

 Without even these most basic elements of an alleged

 violation of the Competition Act , the present Appeal

 should not be entertained. Without prejudice to the

 submissions that the users had a clear choice to opt out

 and switch to alternate consumer

 communications applications, it is submitted that the

 mere lack of an option to opt out of sharing any

 information whatsoever and continue to use WhatsApp

 ipso facto cannot be unfair or abusive. The supposed

 lack of choice must lead to a competitive harm in order to

 be cognizable under the Competition Act - i.e. there must

 be foreclosure of competition shown; there also needs to be

 a demonstration of such a harm. All end-user license

 agreements (EULA) in the software markets are standard

 'take it or leave it' agreements, without any option to

 reserve any one portion. If the mere lack of an option

 to reject or reserve any portion of the terms of use / EULA

 is considered to be abusive, as is alleged by the Appellant,

 then any and all such terms / EULAs of an allegedly

 dominant enterprise would be in contravention of Section

 4 of the Competition Act. This would severely infringe an Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 36 of 58 enterprise's rights to enter into contractual relationships

 under terms it considers reasonable. Therefore,

 the allegation of the Appellant that the Update was unfair

 is baseless and against competition law principles, and

 ought to be dismissed. The Appellant also alleges that the

 "assurance" given earlier through official blogs by

 Respondent No. 2 that the collected user

 information would not be used for commercial purposes

 was "unfairly" withdrawn by the update. The Appellant has

 completely misconstrued the postings by Respondent No. 2. This post is irrelevant in the present case, as the

 proposed business model of charging users a fee was never

 implemented in India except for a short duration to

 iPhone users. In any event, the post merely sought to

 explain Respondent No. 2's then proposed revenue

 generation model of charging a fee rather than generating

 revenue through advertisements / ads. It is submitted that

 the 2012 Privacy Policy of Respondent No. 2 and Update

 are wholly consistent with standard industry practice

 with respect to the collection and use of information to

 provide and improve the services. There are myriad

 examples across online markets, such as the Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 37 of 58 Vodafone/Kabel Deutschland merger, Google's acquisition

 of Nest, Viber's acquisition by Rakuten, and

 Tumblr's acquisition by Yahoo, where intellectual property

 and data, including personal information, is shared by a

 company with its acquirer in order to help the combined

 company build upon the assets and capabilities of the

 acquired company. A rule that precluded such integration

 and data sharing efforts would damage investment and

 discourage acquisitions in India's technology industry, as

 any acquirer would face the prospect that changes to the

 target's data sharing practice (post acquisition / merger)

 could be viewed as anti-competitive conduct under the

 provisions of the Competition Act .'). g. The R2 has submitted that several industries such

 as technology, e-commerce, media, energy,

 telecommunications, insurance, banking and transport

 rely on the collection and use of data to improve the

 experience for its users. Similarly, sharing of limited data

 by Respondent No. 2 with Facebook, Inc. was intended to

 (as recognised by Respondent No. 1), among other

 things, improve user experience, for example, by more

 effectively fighting spam and abuse, and by giving Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 38 of 58 Facebook users an improved products and ads experience.

 Further, the Update clearly informed users of the

 information and the purposes for which user

 information would be shared with Facebook, Inc. if they

 consented to the Update. The privacy policies of other free

 consumer communications applications such as WeChat,

 Viber, Hike, Line, and Snapchat contain almost identical

 language as Respondent No. 2's with respect to the

 collection and use of data to improve the user experience,

 including by providing targeted advertising. It is

 further important to note that information shared with

 Facebook, Inc. is not shared onto Facebook or any of the

 other family of applications for others to see. In any event,

 Respondent No. 2 provided its existing users with a control

 that went above and beyond the law and industry

 standard, enabling those users to decide whether or

 not Facebook, Inc. may use their account information to

 improve their Facebook advertisements and products

 experience. Further, several governments owned

 companies, including the State Bank of India, and the

 Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited,

 also collect and use customer information in similar ways Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 39 of 58 see https://www.onlinesbi.com/sbijava/PrivacyStatemen

 t.html: https://www.services.irctc.co.in/beta_htmls/term

 _termsrc.html. As is evident from the above, Respondent

 No. 2 submits that collection of data is a common practice

 among online market participants, and it is important for

 improving the customer experience and quality of services.

 The mere collection and use of data by a business cannot

 be held to be unfair. Users benefit from the improved

 quality of services and products that result from the use of

 this data, and those products and services are often

 provided at no cost for the user. The Appellant has not

 provided any evidence or reasoning as to how such

 collection and usage of user information has damaged him

 or any other user of WhatsApp. In fact, the sharing of

 information has in no way diminished, but to the contrary

 has improved, the quality of services offered. Further, if the

 Appellant's theory were to be accepted, then when any of

 the technology companies named above or any other

 company operating in India changes its Privacy Policy to

 better serve its users, such a change would constitute an

 unfair act by resulting in a change to the user experience.

 Such a result would, of course, be absurd, and would only Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 40 of 58 serve to harm Indian users of these services by

 die incentivizing innovation and change. This further

 shows why the Appellant's allegation that the change to the

 Privacy Policy was unfair should be rejected.

 h. WhatsApp is not dominant in any relevant market, and

 consequently, cannot be said to have abused its dominant

 position; Respondent No. 2 humbly submits that the

 definition of relevant market can be left open in the instant

 case as there is no abuse that can be established; this has

 been unequivocally held by Respondent No. 1 in the

 detailed Impugned Order. In fact, in the absence of

 any abuse, there is no requirement to assess whether

 Respondent No. 2 enjoys a dominant position. Accordingly,

 Respondent No. 2 reserves its right to make detailed

 submissions on relevant market and assessment of

 dominant position. Without prejudice to the above,

 assuming without accepting the relevant market to be as

 defined by Respondent No. 1, i.e., "the market for instant

 messaging services using consumer communications apps

 through smartphones in India" (Consumer Communications

 Applications), it is humbly submitted that Respondent No.

 2 cannot be said to be dominant. It is submitted that, in Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 41 of 58 alleging that Respondent No. 2 is a dominant enterprise,

 the Appellant has made no reference to the rest for

 dominance under the Act, let alone satisfied

 it. Explanation (a) to Section 4 of the Act sets out the

 test for dominance and states that for an enterprise to

 enjoy a dominant position, it must be in a position of

 strength that enables it to act independently of competitive

 forces prevailing in the market or affect competitors,

 consumers or the relevant market in its favour. This is not

 the case here, and the Appellant has failed to provide

 any comparative analysis or provide any evidence that

 Respondent No. 2 acts independent of competitive

 constraint from other providers of consumer

 communications applications active in India such

 as Google Hangouts, iMessage, Viber, Hike, Line, imo,

 Messenger, Snapchat, or the SMS services offered by every

 telecommunications operator in India. Market shares do

 not establish dominance in the innovation driven

 Consumer Communications Applications market; The

 Appellant has sought to establish that Respondent No. 2

 is dominant based solely on an assertion that Respondent

 No. 2 has high market shares based on incomplete and Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 42 of 58 misleading data. First, the percentage of phones that have

 downloaded a particular app does not indicate how

 frequently such an app is used or its share of a market in

 any meaningful sense. Indeed, the evidence that is in the

 record indicates that other consumer

 communications applications have entered successfully

 and grown rapidly. Hike, for example, has over 100 million

 users and is only one of many such services. Second,

 Respondent No. 2 submits that market shares in and

 of themselves, do not establish dominance. In a technology

 driven market that is dynamic and constantly evolving,

 such as the market under consideration in the present

 case, market shares tend to fluctuate drastically and are

 not sufficient to show dominance. This is also recognized

 by the EC in Facebook/WhatsApp where it held that "the

 consumer communications sector is a recent and

 fast growing sector which is characterised by frequent

 market entry and short innovation cycles in which large

 market shares may turn out to be ephemeral." Respondent

 No. 1 has recognized this in its recent decision in the Ola

 Case, where it acknowledged the dynamic nature of

 innovation driven markets, and expressed its hesitation to Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 43 of 58 interfere where such interference poses a risk of

 prescribing sub-optimal solutions to nascent and

 developing markets. Considering factors such as

 rapid market expansion, low entry barriers and effective

 entry of competitors, countervailing forces in the market,

 and the nature of competition in the dynamic innovation

 driven markets, Respondent No. 1 held the mobile

 application based taxi aggregator - 'Ola Cabs' - not to be

 dominant. It is submitted that similar factors exist in the

 Consumer Communications Applications market as well,

 and, like in the Ola Case, high market shares are

 irrelevant. As the EC found, short innovation cycles are

 present in the Consumer Communications Applications

 Market. When Viber was among the few (along with the

 erstwhile Google Talk, not Hangouts) to offer the option of

 voice calls, it was one of the widest used consumer

 communications applications. When other applications

 began offering similar services, usage shifted to

 other applications fairly quickly especially to those that

 offered a better product. i. The Consumer Communications Applications space

 is characterized by significant entry and expansion, Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 44 of 58 negating any alleged dominance; the R2 submits that the

 dynamic nature of this space and the increasing reach of

 the internet and mobile telephony across the world has

 also led to significant entry and expansion by other

 consumer communications applications. 9. We have carefully gone through the pleadings of the parties and extant

 provisions of the Act and the submissions made by the ld counsel /

 Ld. Sr. Counsels for the parties including their written submissions

 and we are having the following observations: Learned counsel for the appellant referring to the
 rejoinder filed before the Commission submits that
 certain allegations had also been made against
 the 'Facebook Inc.', but the Commission has not
 dealt with such allegations in the impugned order.
 We have heard the learned counsel for the parties
 and perused the record. We find that the
 Facebook, Inc. and Facebook India Online
 Services Private Limited were not the party-
 respondent before the Commission and they were
 not even heard nor any decision taken with regard
 to them. For the said reason we also do not want
 to hear them at the stage of appeal. Hence, we
 allow the prayer to delete their names from the
 array of the respondents. Accordingly, it is
 ordered to delete the names of Facebook, Inc. and
 Facebook India Online Services Private Limited
 from the array of the respondents. However, it is made clear that if the case is
 remanded, it will be open to the appellant to
 agitate the matter against the aforesaid parties
 before the Commission if there is any allegation
 against them. With the aforesaid observations,
 I.A. Nos. 52 and 53 of 2017 stands disposed of. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 46 of 58 Post the appeal on 15th November, 2017. The
 appeal may be disposed of at the stage of
 admission." b. The entire thrust of the Appellant /Society, fight for

 transparency society is on the new privacy policy commenced

 on 25.08.2016 after take over by the Facebook of WhatsApp

 and Facebook becoming the WhatsApp parent company

 asking the users to share their user account details and other

 information available on WhatsApp to the Facebook and the

 only way for the user was to opt out of services within 30 days

 leading thereby the customer to accept the new terms and

 conditions without having any other remedy or consent under

 pressure. c. The other grievance of the Appellant is that the WhatsApp

 policy has breached the provisions of Information Technology

 Act, 2002 . d. The Appellant has made also to prove that termination of

 users services without giving any reason to a large population

 of user is an unfair ability and so also the jurisdiction and

 governing law of California restricting the maximum liability

 to US$100 only has made non-feasible for any user from India

 to approach for any legal grievance redressal. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 47 of 58 e. It is also observed that WhatsApp washed off its hand to

 inform the user in case of case breach & lack of policy laid

 down for minimum standard for protection of data. The

 Appellant also submitted penalty imposed and enquiry

 initiated by different forum around the world.

 f. The Ld. Sr. Counsel for the R2 has stressed that the nature of

 information shared under 2016 up-date was limited and used

 for specific purposes. He stressed that WhatsApp has no

 access to user chats content, as messages are end to end

 encrypted. Even on query by the Bench he went on to confirm

 through his submission that WhatsApp messages including

 chats, group chats, videos, files etc are end to end encrypted

 and nobody other than the sender and recipients can illicit

 any information out of that even not WhatsApp or any third

 party. Encryption is technical a widely used programme by

 the Banks, e-commerce site etc.

 g. It was also confirmed by the learned Sr. Counsel that the

 WhatsApp has collected only mobile number of the user and

 some characters in the name field which may not be a real

 name and sharing of all other information was optional.

 h. He has stressed that the coverage of Section 4(2)(a) of the Act

 requires to prove by the Appellant that it has imposed directly Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 48 of 58 or indirectly unfair or discriminatory conditions in services.

 The Appellant has failed to prove with any data or any

 reasoning other than that inbuilt system has provided the

 user with the option to accept the update or disconnect from

 WhatsApp site. i. We do not find anything unusual in this as it was not

 compulsorily put on the users to accept their terms and

 conditions under pressure. Users were free to come out of

 their site if they are having a doubt or any other reason.

 j. We are also observing these days that all e-commerce site

 asking for such option and only when the user is confident

 that it is not a spam site, then users put 'agree' otherwise,

 they come out the sites to save their data. k. We also do not find any unfair or discriminatory conditions, if

 WhatsApp has accepted the responsibility that it is end to end

 encrypted messaging with high quality voice and video calling

 and other user friendly features. l. Let it be very clear that in any 'merger'/ 'amalgamation' the

 transfer of business involves existing users/service

 providers/vendors to opt for the new organization and this is

 the way the update is accepted or rejected. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 49 of 58 m. It is also very much clear that the 2012 Privacy Policy of

 WhatsApp, allowed WhatsApp to amend its privacy policy and

 share user's information with a third-party service provider to

 the extent it is reasonably necessary to maintain or improve

 the WhatsApp service and to protect the security or integrity

 of the WhatsApp site or servers. WhatsApp has not also

 washed off its hands for keeping the users unaware in case of

 data breach, if it comes to their notice as was confirmed by

 the Ld. Sr. counsel for R2. WhatsApp has ensured that all

 users received clear and prominent notice of the 2016 update

 including the revised privacy policy and an opportunity to

 consent to the 2016 update by accepting the same within 30

 days by clicking "agree" for existing users and "agree and

 continue" for new users. n. WhatsApp has also implemented a use control that has helped

 the existing users the additional choice not to allow their

 account information to be used by Meta to improve their Meta

 advertisements and products experiences without their

 consent. This is over and above the 2012 WhatsApp Privacy

 Policy. o. The other issue on the violations of provisions of Information

 Technology Act, 2000 is concerned, we do not find that how Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 50 of 58 Competition Act and IT Act is connected to determine

 competition and the Adjudicating Authority and the Appellate

 Authority for both are different and law is different. As pointed

 out by the Respondent that the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi

 has found in Karmanya Singh Sareen Vs. Union of India &

 ors. (W.P(c) No. 7663 of 2016, found no infirmity in the 2016

 update and the matter is litigated before the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court of India in Karmanya Singh Sareen & Anr. Vs. Union of

 India (SLP (C) No. 804 of 2017). p. The Commission in its elaborate order dated 01.06.2017 has

 reached to the conclusion that the WhatsApp Inc. is in a

 'dominant position' in the relevant market. We agree with it as

 the Commission has collected the data which reveals that 96%

 of devices uses WhatsApp and are active users than any

 communication App in India. The Commission has also found

 that 56% of the Internet Users in India use 'WhatsApp' and

 51% use 'Facebook' everyday. Hence, it is primarily accepted

 that the WhatsApp Inc. and now the changed management

 after take over is in a 'dominant position' in the 'relevant

 market'. q. What the Appellant has failed to prove that the Opposite

 party/Respondent is abusing its dominant position in the Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 51 of 58 relevant market by introducing privacy policy which compels

 its users to share their account details and other information

 with Facebook as the Respondent has provided the users opt

 out of sharing user accounts information with Facebook

 within 30 days of agreeing to the updated of service and

 privacy policy. It also reveals that they have updated the policy

 for improving infrastructure and delivery system alongwith

 tools for securing systems and fighting with spam, abuse or

 such negative activities. r. An 'organization' may be a 'dominant organization' but only

 when it abuses its 'dominant position' then only ' Section 4 of

 the Competition Act, 2002' is attracted. For brevity and clarity

 the same is reproduced below: s. From the above it is very clear, unless you abuse the

 'Dominant Position' prohibitory action cannot be taken

 against you. As far as the issue of 'predatory pricing' is

 concerned, there is no cost being charged by WhatsApp

 messaging at the moment and hence, directly we cannot

 confirm that it is predatory prices as R1/Commission has

 rightly observed that there are no significant costs preventing

 the users to switch from one consumer communication Apps

 to another as also almost all consumer communication Apps

 are offered free of costs or at a very low price (mostly free) and

 available normally by simple user interfaces. It is very much

 clear world-wide nothing is free but it is the organization

 which lends such services develops some business modules

 to generate sufficient income to sustain its growth. Hence,

 based on all these discussions, we do not find even the

 allegations of 'predatory pricing' has any substance.

 t. As far as reliance on foreign proceedings pointed out by the

 Appellant is concerned, what we observed in certain foreign

 jurisdiction the provisions of Indian Competition Act and

 those foreign jurisdiction, Competition Act have different

 connotation e.g. Italian Competition Authority under Article

 20 , 24 , & 25 of the Italian Court provisions do not related to Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 54 of 58 abuse of dominance or any Anti-Competitive Behavior which

 are prohibited under the (Indian) Competition Act 2002 vide

 Section 4. Unlike, the Competition Commission of India/R1,

 the Italian Competition Authority (AGCM) bears two hats and

 enforces Italian and European Consumer Protection law as

 well as Competition Law. However, these are distinct

 functions and there are different departments within the

 AGCM responsible for the implementation of the antitrust and

 competition laws, and consumer protection laws (AGCM,

 Organization Chart, available at http://en.agcm.it/en/about-

 us/organization/organization-chart (on 06 May, 2022).

 u. It is a settled law that requisite reliance be placed on our home

 land proceedings under the homeland jurisdiction and the law

 laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. Blending

 the issue of (Competition Act, 2002 ) (Indian) where certain

 provisions have been borrowed from statute in Australia and

 Canada are not relevant. The law laid down by foreign

 authorities are not binding on this Tribunal as has been held

 by the COMPAT (the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. Vs.

 Competition Commission of India and Ors. dated 05 August,

 2014 (Appeal no. 15 of 2011), at paragraph 52 to 55. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 55 of 58 v. All these reveal that legal elements require to establish abuse

 of dominant position in India are distinct from the

 situation/conditionality laid down in other jurisdiction and

 mixing borrowing from statutes of foreign jurisdiction does not

 mean that Indian statutory authority is to act as per the

 statute of foreign jurisdiction or their case law unless it finds

 a 'prima facie' violation of the Competition Act, 2002 .

 w. All this depicts that Respondent No.2 in the present form is,

 no doubt, a 'dominant position' but it has not 'abused its

 dominant position' based on inputs provided by the Appellant.

 Simply updation of terms and conditions and the users

 consenting or non-consenting does not amount to abuse of

 dominant position in the relevant market where R2 is

 operating as one of the service providers in the form of

 messaging App where multiple messaging providers are

 available as also in the service sector. In the digital age it has

 become a common practice. It is also proved, beyond doubt,

 that this Tribunal is not competent under the Competition

 Act, 2002 to enter into the violation of Information Technology

 Act, 2002 where relevant authorities are different to

 adjudicate the issue and in this case the Hon'ble Delhi High

 Court has already examined the issue and has passed the Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 56 of 58 consequential order Karmanya Singh Sareen Vs. Union of

 India & ors. (W.P(c) No. 7663 of 2016 and the same is in

 appeal before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in

 Karmanya Singh Sareen & Anr. Vs. Union of India (SLP (C) No.

 804 of 2017). x. It is also very clear that this Tribunal is to do the judicial

 scrutiny of the orders passed by R1. While examining the

 issue, the citations available within Indian jurisdiction are

 primarily to be relied and if, no reference, is there then only,

 we can opt for the judgment in foreign jurisdiction. Each

 countries statute has its own nuances. We have already seen

 that Italian Competition Authority looks at consumer

 protection as well as Competition Law whereas Indian

 Competition Act is primarily concerned with preventing

 practices having adverse effect on Competition, to promote

 and sustain competition in market etc. The facts brought out

 in foreign jurisdiction may be different from the facts what has

 been brought for Indian jurisdiction so all these reliance on

 foreign proceedings is misplaced and needs to be disregarded

 as they have no relevance insofar as the present case is

 concerned. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 57 of 58 In view of the above, we do not find any inconformity in the

 findings of Competition Commission of India and hence, the

 'Appeal' deserves to be dismissed and accordingly is

 dismissed. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of.

 Interim order, if any, passed by this 'Appellate Tribunal',

 stands vacated. No order as to costs. (Justice M. Venugopal)
 Member(Judicial)

 (Dr. Ashok Kumar Mishra)
 Member(Technical)
2nd August, 2022
New Delhi

Raushan Competition Appeal (AT) No. 13 of 2017 Page 58 of 58