The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed new technology-based measures to secure the trading environment and prevent unauthorised transactions in trading and demat accounts. In a consultation paper released on February 18, 2025, the market regulator proposed SIM binding and biometric verification alongside other measures to benefit investors.

The new measures follow the market regulator’s earlier norms on Internet-based trading and Services using wireless technology and certain sections of the 2024 master circular for stockbrokers.

The public can submit comments for the proposal by March 11, 2025, here .

SEBI mandates stock exchanges to provide controls to trading applications to undertake the following activities:

SEBI also proposed measures to strengthen the existing framework for call and trade or walk-in trade clients. For context , the call and trade facility allows users to trade in the stock market using a phone, when one’s computer is not accessible.

SEBI claims that the proposed framework would create “secure and robust authentication” for logging into mobile applications for trading. Besides this, the system will better inform investors of the logged-in sessions of their UCCs on other devices and will give them greater control over their trading application through features like temporary lock among other restrictions.

The market regulator states that its move is in response to tech misuse, including unauthorized trading account access, SIM spoofing, and erroneous share transfers. SEBI aims to address the issue of inadequate technology-based controls leaving web-based or mobile-based trading vulnerable to fraud or identity theft. The new framework was developed by a SEBI working group to address these security concerns.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event