The Bombay High Court recently temporarily restrained multiple websites from infringing on the trademarks of UTI Infrastructure Technology and Services Limited (UTIITSL) with the intention of misleading India’s citizens that they’re authorised to provide PAN-related services. Domain registrars were further directed to disable or block access to the infringing domains, as well as future ones flagged by UTITSL. The case will be heard next on February 20th. The accused websites include Extra Tech World, Vle Bazaar Private Limited, VleBazaar, and CoDesk Venture Private Limited/CoDesk Venture.

“It cannot be in dispute that the PAN system is of paramount importance on a national scale due to its multifaceted impact on governance, taxation, and financial integrity, and it can be said to be the cornerstone of a robust financial economic system,” Justice Bharati Dangre’s January 12th order noted . “PAN related services are pivotal in fostering fiscal discipline and ensuring a transparent and accountable economic framework, as apart from being a unique identifier for individuals and entities, it also aim[s] at streamlining the tax recovery and payment process. Government of India has made it mandatory for PAN card holders to link the same to Aadhar [sic] Card, which is an acceptable proof of identification in India, and therefore, any potential misuse of the licence/authorisation to issue PAN cards, would be highly detrimental not only to the interest of the plaintiff, but also to the national interest.”

But first, why are UTIITSL and PAN this important? The company is authorised by India’s Income Tax Department to process PAN and PAN-related services, like issuing Aadhaar cards, voter IDs, driving licenses, and more. This work is important because the 10-digit PAN numbers allotted to individual taxpayers are used to track the financial transactions of Indian citizens and companies. This helps “ascertain the [entity’s] taxable component to prevent tax evasion,” the Bombay High Court’s order recorded. UTIITSL has been offering these services on behalf of the Income Tax Department since May 2003, with the agreement valid until March this year.

What was the case about? UTIITSL accused the websites of deliberately infringing on its copyrights and using its trade marks without authorisation in a “deceptively similar artistic style” to its own. This gave the impression that they were authorised to offer PAN-related services—even though these are exclusively provided by UTIITSL. These companies also collected personal and confidential data from the public without authorisation, and in some cases, UTIITSL believed they may have issued fraudulent PAN cards as well. UTIITSL argued that the infringement had far-reaching consequences that would “ripple through the foundation” of India’s economy.

“The PAN cards and all other PAN related services offered by any entity other than the Plaintiff and Protean eGov Technologies Limited (earlier known as NSDL eGov), which has not been authorized by these entities, are dubious,” Justice Dangre’s order recorded.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event