SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Somebody theft my iPhone 13 from Welcome metro station Delhi and I didn’t get any resolution for such happening from Police Why?
DATE: 2024-09-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1f6wudi/somebody_theft_my_iphone_13_from_welcome_metro/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was traveling on the Metro from Welcome Metro station to Majlis Park. While exiting the Welcome Metro Station, I realized that my iPhone 13, which was in my pocket, was missing. Upon reviewing the CCTV footage from the station of camera no 32 installed at station , I clearly identified (Video attached)an individual who appeared to have picked up the phone from my pocket at 11:02 AM. Upon knowing of the happening we first locked our phone from icloud.com and gone to the police station SHASTRI PARK METRO POLICE reached at 11:20 AM after telling our incident police lodged an FIR at 2:00 PM .Unfortunately, despite reporting the incident instantly and providing evidence, my iPhone 13 has not been provided for IMEI tracking . At the very next day i received a sms on my registered mobile number (VERY STRANGE THING FOR ME i am unable to digest that how they got my number) which was used in my apple id about my phone has been located with link findmy.co.in/225 (SCREENSHOT attached) i think the link was looked genuine and as it is same as real webinar I mistakenly filled up all details of icloud and passcode now the link sender (SURAJ SOFTWARE HOUSE , DELHI) NEHRU PALACE of which the link has registered got all my Details he removed the device from i cloud still after 4 days the police has not provided my phone for IMEI tracking and the hackers thieves are doing there work promptly very fast . 

In this incident i have 3 questions?

1. Why delhi police does not put the phone on IMEI tracking immediately?
2. How the stealer got my registered mobile number which was used in my apple id ?
3. Why when we have a clue about the domain name registrar still such thing police take into there knowledge avoiding its a big scam of 1000 crores in delhi?