1. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiff, Enterprise Holdings,
Inc for permanent injunction, restraining infringement of trademark,
copyright, passing off, damages, rendition of accounts, delivery up etc.
against the defendant. Alongwith the suit, plaintiff also filed an application
under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC being I.A.
4224/2013. 2. The suit alongwith said interim application was listed before court on
13th March, 2013. After hearing, detailed ex-parte order was passed against
the defendant restraining it from offering vehicle rental and leasing services
and any other related services under the trademark and trade name
ENTERPRISE or ENTERPRIZE or any other deceptively similar mark to
plaintiff's trade mark ENTERPRISE. 3. Upon service of interim order, the defendant filed its written statement
and contested the prayer of interim order passed on 13 th March, 2013. The
defendant also filed an application under Order 39 Rule 4 for vacation of an
exparte interim order being I.A. No. 12412/2013. By this order, I propose to
decide both pending applications. Issues were framed on 4 th February, 2014
and the matter is now at the stage of evidence. 4. The case of the plaintiff: The plaintiff's mark ENTERPRISE is therefore well known in
 India for vehicle rental and leasing services in view of the trans
 border reputation and also directing marketing in India since 2007.
 The plaintiff has also filed large number of documents in order to
 establish its averments made in the plaint. Case against the defendant as set up by the plaintiff 5. It is alleged that in October 2010, plaintiff first became aware of
defendant from its website www.enterpriseautorentals.org and made a
telephone call when the defendant assured that they will stop use of the mark
ENTERPRISE. The plaintiff was surprised that in 2011, the defendant
website was active, cease and desist notice was sent on 27 th October, 2011.
On receipt of the notice, the defendant shifted its office. The plaintiff traced
the defendant and issued another notice on 6th January, 2012. The defendant
by its letter dated 11th January, 2012 stated that they would respond but no
response was received. On investigation on 9th January, it was found that
defendant started using the mark ENTERPRIZE also. 6. It is alleged that defendant is a partnership concern of Mr. Gulwant
Singh and Mr. Sandeep Singh and the aforesaid two partners of defendant
were earlier working for Avis, which is a direct competitor of the plaintiff in
the same line of business of vehicle rental services. The aforesaid partners
were thus, fully aware of the plaintiff and its reputation before commencing
its services using the trade mark ENTERPRISE/ENTERPRIZE and the use
by the defendant of the mark ENTERPRISE/ENTERPRIZE is with a view to
exploit the tremendous and enviable goodwill and reputation that the
plaintiff commands. The illegal and unauthorized use of the mark
ENTERPRISE/ENTERPRIZE is calculated to deceive the public into
believing that defendant's services and concern are those of the plaintiff's or
are in some way connected or associated with the plaintiff. 7. It is submitted by the plaintiff that the adoption and use by the
defendant of the trade mark ENTERPRISE, which is identical to and
ENTERPRIZE, which is substantially similar to, plaintiff's registered trade CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 4 of 31 mark ENTERPRISE in respect of identical services amounts to infringement
of plaintiff's registered trademark and passing off. 8. The case of defendant in the written statement: 9. In the reply to the written statement filed by the defendant, the
plaintiff mainly took the following pleas: 10. Let me now consider the rival submissions of the parties.
Generic Name 11. In order to understand the arguments of the defendant, one has to
examine the definition of the "mark" and the "trademark" under Sections
2(1)(m) and 2(zb) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 together. In Section
2(1)(m) , the meaning of the "mark" includes the name and word and/or any
combination thereof. Similarly, as per Section 2(zb) , the "trademark" means,
if the same is used in relation to goods or services for the purposes of
indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the
goods or services, as the case may be, and some person having the right as
proprietor to use the mark. In the present case, it is the admitted position that CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 7 of 31 the essential feature of the mark ENTERPRISE is registered trademark in
favour of the plaintiff. 12. In the case of Automatic Electric Limited v. R.K. Dhawan 1999 (19)
PTC 81 (Del) the aspect of generic mark has been extensively discussed in
para 12-16 of the order, the same reads as under: registered in Australia. The fact that the defendant itself has
 sought to claim trade proprietary right and monopoly in
 "DIMMER DOT", it does not lie in their mouth to say that the
 word "DIMMER" is a generic expression. User of the word
 "DIMMER" by others cannot be a defence available to the
 defendants, if it could be shown that the same is being used in
 violation of the statutory right of the plaintiff. In this
 connection, reference may be made to the decision of this Court
 in Prakash Roadline Ltd. Vs. Prakash Parcel Service (P) Ltd. ;
 reported in 1992(2) Arbitration Law Reporter page 174. Reference may also be made to the decision in P.M. Diesels
 Ltd. Vs. S.M. Diesels ; reported in 53 (1994) Delhi Law Times 742. It was held in those decision that if the plaintiff is a
 proprietor of the registered trade mark, the same gives to the
 proprietor of the registered trade mark the exclusive right to
 use the trade mark with relation to goods in respect of which
 the trade mark is registered under the provisions of Section 28 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act." In view of the above, the plea raised by the defendant at this interim
stage cannot be accepted being a registered trademark in favour of the
plaintiff. Infringement 13. It is settled law that in order to prove the case for infringement of
trade mark, the plaintiff has to show that the essential features of the
registered trade mark which has been adopted by the defendant has been
taken out from the plaintiff's registration. Only the marks are to be
compared by the Court and in case the registration is granted in favour of the
plaintiff, he acquires valuable right by reason of the said registration. 14. The test of comparison of the marks side by side is not a sound one
since a purchaser will seldom have the two marks actually before him when
he makes his purchase. The eye is not an accurate recorder of visual detail
and that marks are remembered rather by general impression or by some
significant detail than by any photographic recollection of the whole. While
judging the question as to whether the defendant has infringed the trade
mark by colourable imitation of the mark or not, the Court has to consider
the overall impression of the mark in the minds of general public and not by
merely comparing the dissimilarities in the two marks. 15. In K.R. Chinna Krishna Chettiar v. Sri Ambal & Co. , AIR 1970 SC
146, the Supreme Court held that ocular comparison is not always the
decisive test. Resemblance between the two marks must be considered with
reference to the ear as well as to the eye. In this case, the Registrar held that
the sound of "AMBAL" does not so nearly resemble the sound of
"ANDAL" in spite of certain letters being common to both the marks, as to
be likely to cause confusion or deception. The Registrar thus found that the
marks were not deceptively similar. But on appeal both the Single Judge
and Division Bench found deceptive similarity. The Supreme Court,
dismissed the appeal, and held that there was a striking similarity and
affinity of sound between the word "Andal" and "Ambal" and held that there
was a real danger of confusion between the two marks. 16. The following are the judgments are relevant to be referred to for the
purpose of grant of relief in the cases of infringement of the trade marks: No doubt, where the evidence in respect of passing off CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 12 of 31 consists merely of the colourable use of a registered trade
 mark, the essential features of both the actions might
 coincide in the sense that what would be a colourable
 limitation of a trade mark in a passing off action would
 also be such in an action for infringement of the same
 trade mark. But there the correspondence between the two
 ceases. In an action for infringement, the plaintiff must, no
 doubt, make out that use of the defendant's mark is likely to
 deceive, but were the similarity between the plaintiff's and
 the defendant's mark is so close either visually,
 phonetically or otherwise and the court reaches the
 conclusion that there is an limitation, no further evidence
 is required to establish that the plaintiff's rights are
 violated. Expressed in another way, if the essential
 features of the trade mark of the plaintiff have been
 adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get-up, packing
 and other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets
 in which he offers his goods for sale show marked
 differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin different
 from that of the registered proprietor of the make would be
 immaterial; whereas in the case of passing off, the
 defendant may escape liability if he can show that the
 added matter is sufficient to distinguish his goods from
 those of the plaintiff" iii. In the case of National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg.
 Co. AIR 1971 SC 898 at page 903 it was held as under: iv. M/s Avis International Ltd. vs. M/s Avi Footwear
 Industries and another, reported in AIR 1991 Delhi 22,the
 relevant paras of which read as under: In view of the above said facts and circumstances, it is held that two
marks ENTERPRISE and ENTERPRIZE visually, phonetically and
structurally are deceptively similar. The use of the trade mark
ENTERPRISE/ENTERPRIZE by the defendant amounts to infringement of
trade mark of the plaintiff. In case the defendant is allowed to use the
deceptively similar trade mark, there would be confusion and deception.
Goodwill and reputation in India by the plaintiff in an action for
passing off 17. Infringement of a registered trademark is caused by the use of the
mark which is identical or nearly resembling to that of registered trademark
in respect of the same, similar or different goods in terms of provisions of Trade Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"). In that sense,
the remedy of infringement is statutorily conferred upon the registered
proprietor. On the other hand, passing off action is an action in common law
which is essentially the protection of goodwill and reputation which the
person has created by virtue of carrying out of business activities under a
particular name and style or under a brand name for that matter and the said
action is an action in deceit which is to prevent any misrepresentation caused
amongst public. The said misrepresentation may be in the form of innocent CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 15 of 31 representation or deliberate representation which is immaterial in the case of
passing off. The fundamental difference that passing off is an action which
essentially protects goodwill and not the unregistered trademark has been
explained in the case of Star Industrial Co. Ltd. v. Yap Kwee Kor [1976]
Fleet Street Patent Law Reports 256 decided by Privy Council comprising
Lord Diplock in his speech wherein it has been observed that passing off is
an action which is to preserve the goodwill of a person and not aimed at to
protect an unregistered trademark. In the words of Lord Diplock, it has been
observed as under:- 18. From the reading of the said observation of Lord Diplock's speech, it
is clear that the gist of passing action is goodwill and reputation which is CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 16 of 31 sought to be protected and thereby misrepresentation is prevented in the
course of trade. It is altogether different matter that misrepresentation may
include the use of mark in the course of trade and ultimate effect of passing
off action in most of the cases is protection of the trademark anyway, but the
heart and soul of the passing off action has always been protection of
goodwill and reputation aimed at to prevent misrepresentation. The gist of
passing off action has been explained by Lord Diplock in yet another
judgment of Erven Warnink v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd. [1980] RPC
31 wherein Lord Diplock has laid down five essential elements which are
necessary to be proven as jurisdictional facts for the purposes of establishing
the tort of passing off. The said five ingredients are as under:- 19. One of the essential ingredients is goodwill. The classic case of
passing off as it existed since its genesis always insist the existence of
goodwill of a merchant in order to give him a locally enforceable right to sue
for passing off. This has been explained by Kerly's in his book called Law
of Trade Marks and Trade Names (Fourteenth Edition) (South Asian
Edition 2007), wherein the concept of goodwill has always been categorized
as local in character and the learned author observed thus:- 20. This concept of goodwill and the insistence of localized business has
been traditional concept of passing off which sometimes is called as classic
case of passing off. However, this concept of passing off has undergone
changes due to advent of technology and modernization. For the said reason
the tendency to insist localized goodwill has been transformed into proving
reputation of a global character. All this would mean that courts entertaining
the case of passing off can discount the localized existence of goodwill and
the business in the territory specific if the substantial nature of reputation has
been proved which has some kind of nexus in the territory where the
protection is sought and the said concept in the modern language is called
trans-border reputation whereas the goodwill is always local in character, the
concept of reputation is dynamic and is all encompassing. The reputation of
a person can transcend boundaries by virtue of its advertisement in the
newspapers, media circulation, expatriate reputation due to cultural akin ness
and all other relevant factors which connect one countries business with that
of another. This has been aptly explained by the Division Bench of Delhi
High Court in the case of N.R.Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation , AIR 1995 CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 18 of 31 Delhi 300 wherein the S. Jagannath Rao, J. speaking for the Bench has
approved the concept of trans-border reputation in the following words:- 21. The said judgment of Whirlpool [supra] has been approved by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of N.R. Dongre and Ors. vs
Whirlpool Corpn. and Anr. , 1996 (2) ARB.LR 488 SC wherein J.S. Verma,
J. speaking for the Bench again reiterated the exposition of law laid down by the Division Bench of Delhi High Court. This exposition of 1996 in the case
of Whirlpool [supra] has been further revisited by the courts in India more
importantly in the case of Allergan Inc. v. Milment Oftho Industries , 1999
PTC (19) (DB) 160 wherein Ruma Pal, J. has carefully analyzed the
interplay between the goodwill and reputation in a case of passing off action
and has laid down that the courts in India have followed the third approach
which is a middle path wherein strict insistence of localized business is not
necessary. However, reputation which is sought to be protected has to be
substantial one having global character. The observation made by Hon'ble
Judge is as under:- Hunt (1896) AC 7; ITC v. B.C. Srinivas Shetty, . In my opinion
 reputation framing the basis of a passing off action need not be so
 localised. Whatever the compulsion for the Courts taking the first or
 second view in other countries, as far as this country is concerned,
 Courts in India prescribe to the third view and have held that a
 plaintiff with a reputation which is established internationally can
 sue to protect it in this country even if it does not have any business
 activity here. In other words reputation of a product may precede its
 introduction and may exist without trade in such product in the
 country. See N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation, (DB ); J. N.
 Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v. Rose & Thistle , 1994 PTC 83 (DB); Calvin
 Klein Inc. v. International Apparels , (1995) FSR 515 : 1995 IPLR
 83; Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Supra) at p. 133." 22. The said judgment passed in the case of Milment [supra] passed by
Division Bench of Kolkata High Court has been further approved by
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Milment Oftho Industries v.
Allergan Inc. , (2004) 12 SCC 624 presided by S.N. Variava, J. wherein the
Supreme court has laid down that : It was further observed on the facts of the case as under: 23. The overall effect of the said judgment was pretty clear that the courts
in India have started recognizing the global character of the brand names and
have started giving them protection merely on the basis of global nature of
reputation without insisting any localized business which was significant
departure from the classic trinity laid down by Lord Diplock in the case of CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 21 of 31 Erven Warnink (Supra). The position of law uptill Milment has been
followed that the courts in India by placing reliance on the said decision
have proceeded to grant interim orders to the multi-nationals having their
brands which are of global character and prevented the misuse of the said
brands by protecting trans-border reputation subject to fulfilling of essential
characteristics necessary to prove trans-border reputation. The decision in
the case of Milment was also rendered in the year 2004 when the impact of
internet, e-commerce, social media was yet to be seen and realized. 24. Recently, on 24th January, 2014, this Court has rendered a decision in
the case of Cadbury UK Limited & Anr vs. Lotted India Corporation Ltd. ,
reported in 2014 (57) PTC 422 (Delhi) wherein the decision of law relating
to trans-border reputation has been further strengthened and has been taken
to another level wherein the court has not merely relied upon the decision of Milment (Supra) and Whirlpool (Supra) but has also extended the principle
of trans-border reputation by observing that the existence of a merchant on
web pages which are of foreign origin and social media are sufficient to
show the trans-border nature of reputation without having any activity in
India at the relevant time. Though it is very broad extension of the concept
of trans-border reputation, but it is a question of fact in each case as to how
the internet documents are sufficient to show the global character of the
trademark and the reputation attached to the same. The impact of the said
decision which has been given very recently is yet to be seen and analyzed
by the other courts in India in the upcoming times. Effectively, the concept
of trans-border reputation and goodwill is interesting in academic sense.
However, due to advent of internet media, international travel, the insistence
on the localized business as well as trans-border reputation is nowadays CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 22 of 31 more or less dealt with in a kind of presumptive approach rather than by
actual establishment of the same. As the international businesses grow and
proximity between the markets would increase, over the time this concept
will become weaker and on one good day world will be treated as one
market. 25. In para 33 of the said decision , Dr. S. Murlidhar, J. has summarized
the following principles: There must be some material that the product is known to the
 Indian consumer. The material will be scrutinised by the Court
 from many relevant perspectives including the class of
 consumers likely to buy the product (See the decision dated
 15th March 2010 of this Court in CS (OS) 626 of 2006 Roca
 Sanitario S.A. v. Naresh Kumar Gupta ). (e) Although in the internationalisation of trade there could be
 a possible confusion with the domestic trader bona fide
 adopting business names similar to names legitimately used
 elsewhere, a dishonest adoption or use of a mark similar to one
 having a reputation in the market, with a view to causing
 deception or confusion in the mind of the average consumer,
 may invite an injunction. including the class of consumers likely
 to buy the product (See the decision dated 15th March 2010 of
 this Court in CS (OS) 626 of 2006 Roca Sanitario S.A. v.
 Naresh Kumar Gupta ). (e) Although in the internationalisation of trade there could be
 a possible confusion with the domestic trader bona fide
 adopting business names similar to names legitimately used
 elsewhere, a dishonest adoption or use of a mark similar to one
 having a reputation in the market, with a view to causing
 deception or confusion in the mind of the average consumer,
 may invite an injunction." 26. In the present case, there is prima facie evidence available on record
to show that the plaintiff has a user of the mark ENTERPRISE which has
acquired goodwill and reputation in various countries of the world including
India. Thus, there is no force in the submission of the defendant that plaintiff
has no use in India. 27. The test of confusion and deception in order to prove the case of
passing off has been very well discussed in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel
vs. Chetanbhai Shah And Another, a judgment delivered by the Supreme
Court, reported in (2002) 3 SCC 65, wherein the Apex Court while
considering a plea of passing off and grant of ad interim injunction held in
no uncertain terms that a person may sell his goods or deliver his services
under a trading name or style which, with the passage of time, may acquire a
reputation or goodwill and may become a property to be protected by the
Courts. It was held that a competitor initiating sale of goods or services in
the same name or by imitating that name causes injury to the business of one CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 24 of 31 who has the property in that name. It was held that honesty and fair play are
and ought to be the basic policy in the world of business and when a person
adopts or intends to adopt a name which already belongs to someone else, it
results in confusion, has the propensity of diverting the customers and
clients of someone else to himself and thereby resulting in injury. It was held
that the principles which apply to trade mark are applicable to trade name
also. Relevant para 10 of the aforesaid judgment reads as under:- In this case, the Apex Court further observed that: In another case of passing off, a Division Bench of this Court in the
case of B.K.Engineering Co. vs. Ubhi Enterprises and Anr. , reported in
1985 PTC 1, in para-57 inter alia it is held that trading must not only be
honest but must not even unintentionally be unfair. Thus, it appears to the Court that the plaintiff has made a strong case
of passing off in its favour. In case the defendant is allowed to use the
similar name, it would amount to passing off his business and services as CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 25 of 31 that of the plaintiff. No justification has been given by the defendant to use
similar name. It appears that the defendant was aware about the name,
goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff's name ENTERPRISE at the time of
its adoption. Thus, such user by the defendant is tainted and dishonest.
Territorial Jurisdiction 28. In the present case, the plaintiff has invoked the jurisdiction of this
Court in Para 29 of the plaint which reads as under: "29. That the Defendant offers and provides its services under the
 trade mark ENTERPRISE and ENTERPRIZE within the National
 Capital Territory region including Delhi. The Defendant thus carries
 on its business within the territory of this Hon'ble Court under the
 mark ENTERPRISE and ENTERPRIZE. Hence this Hon'ble court
 has jurisdiction to entertain and try the present suit" b) In Express Bottlers Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Pepsi Inc. and Ors. , 1989
 (9) PTC 14 it has been held as under. Delay 34. The case of the defendant is that the defendant has been using the
mark ENTERPRISE since 2010. It is the admitted position that the issue of
delay is not fatal in an action for infringement of trademark. It is also
pertinent to mention that before the filing of this suit, notice was issued by
the plaintiff to the defendant not to infringe his right. However the defendant
continued to use the mark ENTERPRIZE. Such use by the defendant was
considered to be a use on its own peril and risk. It is also interesting to note
that the defendant is carrying on business with a competitor of the plaintiff. 35. It has been held in many cases that such statutory right cannot be lost
merely on the question of principles of delay, laches or acquiescence. It was
also held that in general mere delay after knowledge of infringement does
not deprive the registered proprietor of a trade mark of his statutory rights or CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 28 of 31 of the appropriate remedy for the enforcement of those rights so long as the
said delay is not an inordinate delay. The ratio of the aforesaid decisions are
squarely applicable to the facts of the present case. Thus, injunction cannot
be refused under these circumstances. 36. The issue of delay and acquiescence has been considered by Courts in
various matters. Some of them are referred to as under: b) In the case of Swarn Singh vs. Usha Industries (India) and
 Anr., AIR 1986 Delhi Page No.343 (DB) it was held as
 under : c) In the case of Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s India
 Stationery Products Co., AIR 1990 DELHI 19 it was held
 as under : d) In the case of M/s. Bengal Waterproof Lim. Vs. M/s.
 Bombay Waterproof Manufacturing Co. AIR 1997 SC
 1398 it was held as under : 37. No other arguments are addressed by the defendant's counsel. 38. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case, the
defendant, its servants, agents and all other persons acting on their behalf are
restrained from using the trademark ENTERPRISE/ENTERPRIZE in
relation to the business of offering vehicles rental and learning services and
any related services under the said name or in any manner whatsoever in
order to create the confusion and deception and infringing the trademark of
the plaintiff. 39. The application is accordingly allowed and disposed of. The
defendant's application under Section 39 Rule 4 read with Section 151 CPC
being I.A. No.12412/13 is dismissed. The findings given in these
applications are tentative and shall have no bearing when the suit is decided
on merit after recording the evidence of the parties. 40. No costs. 41. The plaintiff shall produce evidence by way of affidavit within 6
weeks. Parties shall file list of witnesses within 4 weeks from today. 42. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 30th May, 2014. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
MARCH 11, 2014 CS (OS) No.489/2013 Page 31 of 31