SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I am a victim of Fraud and am stuck in between policemen , help me out.
DATE: 2014-03-10
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2028ly/i_am_a_victim_of_fraud_and_am_stuck_in_between/

--- POST TEXT ---

Here is a complete synopsis of what happen :

I recently came back to India after being out of the country for 15 years. So the way things work out here are completely new to me. I needed a new phone for me and my wife as we were still using the old blackberry and hence I considered going for the Apple iPhone 5S. As the Apple stores quoted a very high price , I settled down to buy a used piece.

I found a person who was into sales of Mobile which were used and managed to strike a fair deal with him. The deal was that he would pay 3,000 for each of the blackberries in form of a cash discount on our new purchase. We opted for the 5S gold , 16GB variant and each phone costed us about 40k. They were a month used and they came with bills. I had to pay him 74k in total and he told me I had to pay by cash. I did the same , and hence there is no proof that I paid him for the phone.

It's been 2 weeks now and today morning I got a call from the police station and they asked me to come over for a interrogation. Surprised was I but went to the police station. They took away my phone instantly amd began asking me about random people. I told them I knew nothing and showed them all my documents giving them proof I recently returned to India. The connection was with some case of criminal activity in which my phone was used. I told them how I got the phone. But when I produced the bill and they enquired with the Apple Store , the bill was found to be fake. And the dealer who sold the phone to be had closed his shop due to financial constrains and had moved on.

Now the problem is that , the police think I'm involved in the criminal activity even though i have no clue whatsoever. They think I am lying because the dealer has closed his shop and his number is also dead and gone. They have ordered me not to go out of my city until the investigations are completed. But , my work may anytime ask me to go to places. What should I do? 

EDIT : The police called in for a Final Hour of "questioning" and , they apologized for they were wrong. I'm out of everything! Thank you for your help , r/india!