(AIRPORT AND GENERAL)
 New Customs House, New Delhi-110037

 Appearance: 3. The appellant was registered as authorized courier by the

Commissioner of Customs (General), New Delhi and was allowed

to transact business at new courier terminal IGI Airport, New

2 CIER 2010 3 Delhi. The Commissioner received an offence report from the

Joint Commissioner, Air Cargo Export Commissionerate New

Delhi on 15.07.2021 stating that a large quantity of electronic

goods including Apple Brand i phones, multi brand old and used

laptops, Sony brand PSI, Dietary supplements etc., were

imported mis-declaring them as household goods through the

appellant. 4. Two Master Airway Bills3, both dated 02.06.2022, were

filed by the appellant along with the import manifest declaring

the goods as household articles. These two MAWBs had 32 and

20 House Airway Bills4 declaring the imported goods as

household articles. On examination, they were found to contain

the electronic goods indicated above. The consignee details in

the invoices pasted on the boxes of the import consignments did

not match with the import manifest and courier Bills of Entry filed

by the appellant. Customs sent letters to persons whose names

appeared on the invoices. Some letters were returned by the

postal authorities with remarks such as "insufficient address", "no

such person", "deceased" etc. Other letters were received and

the supposed consignees replied denying ever having ordered the

consignments. Therefore, it appeared that the importers' KYC

documents were mis-used by the appellant to facilitate import of

the mis-declared goods. After completing the investigation and

recording statements of various persons, the appellant's

registration was suspended by an order dated 23.07.2021 and

3 MAWB
4 HAWB 4 the appellant was asked to show cause why its registration

should not be revoked and the security deposit should not be

forfeited and penalty imposed. In the show cause notice it was

alleged that the appellant had violated the Regulation 12(i),

12(iii), 12(vi), 12(v), 12(vii) and 12 (x) of CIER 2010. These

Regulations place the following obligations on the courier. Regulation 12(i): obtain an authorization, from each of the
 consignees or consignors of the imported goods for whom
 or from whom such courier has imported such goods or
 consignees or consignors of such export goods which such
 Courier proposes to export, to the effect that the
 Authorised Courier may act as agent of such consignee or
 consignor, as the case may be, for clearance of such
 imported or export goods by the proper officer;

 Regulation 12 (iii): advise his consignor or consignee to
 comply with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations
 made thereunder and in case of non-compliance thereof, he
 shall bring the matter to the notice of the Assistant
 Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
 Customs; Regulation 12 (iv): verify the antecedent, correctness of
 Importer Exporter Code (IEC) Number, identity of his client
 and the functioning of his client in the declared address by
 using reliable, independent, authentic documents, data or
 information. Regulation 12 (v): exercise due diligence to ascertain the
 correctness and completeness of any information which he
 submits to the proper officer with reference to any work
 related to the clearance of imported goods or of export
 goods; Regulation 12 (vii): not withhold any information relating to
 assessment and clearance of imported goods or of export
 goods, from the Assessing Officer; Regulation 12 (x): abide by all the provisions of the Act and
 the rules, regulations, notifications and orders issued there
 under. 5. The appellant contested the proposals in the SCN.

However, in the impugned order the Commissioner held that the

appellant had violated Regulations 12(i),(iii),(iv),(v),(vii)and(x)

and cancelled the registration of the appellant, forfeited the

security deposit and imposed a penalty. 6. We have heard Ms. Priyanka Goel, learned counsel for the

appellant and Shri Shiv Shankar, learned authorized

representative appearing for the department and perused the

records. 7. Ms. Priyanka Goel, learned counsel for the appellant

submitted as follows: the whole inquiry report is based on the two

 contradictory statements of the appellant. Apart from

 the statements, there is nothing on record which can

 point out that appellant was aware about the goods till

 the time the consignment were examined by the

 department; (f) The courier license was granted to appellant in 2014 and

 the appellant courier had an unblemished track record; (g) The case of the department against the appellant is that

 there was systemic failure on behalf of the appellant to 7 detect the fraud and lack of supervisory control. It

 cannot therefore be held that the appellant itself has

 committed any fraud with intent to evade any duty or

 prohibition; (h) That the revocation of Courier License for violating the

 terms of Regulation 12 (i), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii) and (x) of

 CIER, 2010 is too harsh on the appellant; (i) The appellant had already paid the price for his lack of

 supervision. He was firstly arrested and thereafter his

 registration was cancelled and from past four years he

 has been out of business; (j) Reliance is placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Tribunal in

 the case of Fle Fast Line Express Pvt. Ltd. Vs.

 Commr. Of Cust. (Air Cargo Export), New Delhi5; (k) Therefore, it is humbly prayed that the impugned order

 may be set aside. 8. Shri Shiv Shankar, learned authorized representative

appearing for the department vehemently supported the

impugned order and submitted as follows: Therefore, it is evident that the appellant filed

 benami courier Bills of Entry for goods without any

 authorization. In the statement of Shri Hrushikesh

 Mohanty, Director of the appellant recorded on

 02.07.2021, he confirmed that no authorization

 was obtained by the appellant. Therefore, the

 factual position is that the appellant had not

 obtained any authorization from the consignee or

 the consignor and the consignees were either non-

 existent on the address or they had not ordered

 any such goods. Therefore, the appellant had

 violated the Regulation 2(1)(ii). (ii) Regulation 12(1)(iii) requires the courier to advise

 the consignor or consignee to comply with the

 provisions of the Act, Rules and Regulations and in

 case of non-compliance, bring the matter to the

 notice of the Assistant Commissioner or Deputy

 Commissioner. In this case, it is evident that the

 appellant had not advised any of the consignees

 because the appellant had not even obtained any 9 authorization and the so called consignees either

 did not exist at the address or they had not

 ordered the goods. Therefore, this is a violation of

 Regulation 12(1)(iii). (iii) Regulation 12(1)(iv) requires the courier to verify

 the antecedents, correctness of IEC, identity of

 his clients and functioning of his clients at declared

 address by using reliable independent data or

 information. During investigation, when Shri

 Hrushikesh Mohanty, Director of the appellant was

 asked on 02.07.2021, he explained that he did not

 possess any KYC documents for the consignee nor

 did he conduct any independent or reliable

 documents to verify the KYC details of the

 consignee. Therefore, Regulation 12 (1)(iv) of

 CIER, 2010 was violated. (iv) Regulation 12(1)(v) requires the courier to

 exercise due diligence to ascertain the correctness

 and completeness of any information which he

 submits to the proper officer with reference to

 work related to the clearance of imported goods or

 its export goods. During examination of the goods

 by the SIIB officers, Shri Mohanty, in his

 statement dated 02.07.2021 admitted that they

 had not exercised due diligence in verifying the

 correctness and information of his submission

 submitted by the Customs Authorities. Therefore, 10 the appellant had indeed violated Regulation

 12(1)(v). (v) Regulation 12(1)(vii) mandates the courier to not

 withhold any information related to assessment

 and clearance of imported goods or export goods

 from the assessing officers. The most significant

 part of assessment is the nature of the goods.

 The goods were mis-declared which would mis-

 declaration have gone undetected but for the

 investigation by the SIIB. The appellant had not

 fulfilled its obligation under Regulation 12(1)(vii). regulations and notifications and orders issued

 thereunder. In his submission dated 02.07.2021

 Mr. Mohanty, the Director of the authorized courier

 admitted to engaging in these practices under

 influence of Shri Sadik from Dubai and driven by

 the desire to earn quick profits during COVID-19

 pandemic. He also explained that he and Mr.

 Mahinder were involved in managing and

 subsequently destroying proofs of delivery and

 that they conspired to mis-declare mobile phones

 as household goods for financial profits. This

 clearly is in violation of Regulation 12(1)(x). (vii) In view of above the appellants were not

 compliance with the key regulations under CIER 11 2010 which cannot be condoned especially given

 its admitted actions of willfully ignoring the

 regulatory requirements for financial gain. The

 decision to the revoke the licence is based on the

 severity of the breach, which poses significant risk

 to the integrity of the customs process and

 revenue collection. Therefore, the impugned order

 is correct and calls for no interference. 9. We have considered the submissions on both sides and

perused the records. 10. The facts of the case are not in dispute. The appellant had

imported goods and had filed Master Airway Bills and House

Airway Bills and courier Bills of Entry. The way the courier

business operates is different from the way of customs brokers

operate. The Customs Broker is required to only to assist by

processing documents through the customs by filing the Bills of

Entry and processing them. The importer has to pay the import

duty and take the goods. However, in case of imports through

courier, the responsibility of transporting the consignment to

India, clearing it through the customs, paying the appropriate

duty and further delivering the goods to the consignee at his

address is completely undertaken by the authorized courier. In

other words, the authorized courier not only transports goods

from the seller but delivers them to the consignee after

processing through different legal systems and also pays the

customs duty on behalf of the importer. Therefore, the courier 12 acts as an agent of the importer. It is reasonably expected that

the agent would know who is the principal who he is

representing. The courier also transports the goods up to the

premises of the importer. Typically, when delivering the goods,

the courier collects not only its charges but also the amount of

duty which it had paid on imported goods. It is for this reason

that the courier agencies are extremely careful to ensure that the

consignee exists. For this reason, a courier also consults the

consignee often several times to ensure that it is willing to pay

the customs duty which is assessed. 11. Therefore, while it is possible for the customs broker to not

physically verify the address of its clients and only verify it

through documents, it is impossible for any courier to not verify

address of the client and contact details because after clearing

the goods through the customs the courier has to deliver it to the

client and collect not only it's charges, if any, but also the duty

which the courier had paid. It is this principal and agent

relationship between the importer consignee and the courier

which distinguishes the courier regulations from the Customs

Broker Licensing Regulations. 12. Undisputedly, in this case, the goods declared in the courier

Bill of Entry did not match the invoices pasted on the cartons. It

is not unreasonable for the officers to presume that the goods

were intended to be delivered to the consignees. The courier

should not only ensure that the consignee exists but, it is in its

own interest to ensure that the consignee agrees to pay the 13 appropriate duty of customs. When the goods were examined,

they were found to be different from what was declared from the

MAWB and HAWB and courier Bill of Entry. 13. Not only were the goods different from what was declared,

the consignees also either had not existed at all as was evident

from the return of the letters by the postal authorities or the

consignees existed but they had never ordered the goods. 14. Evidently, the electronic goods which were actually found

were attempted to be smuggled into India under the cover of

fake baggage declaration as household goods. 15. In short, the appellant filed benami courier Bills of Entry to

smuggle electronic goods under the garb of various

miscellaneous goods of household items. The submission of the

appellant is that it had a limited role in dealing with the imported

consignments and could not have opened the packages or dealt

with the imported goods in any manner except as directed by the

Customs Officers cannot be accepted. The responsibility of the

appellant was to present the imported goods to the Proper Officer

for inspection, examination and assessment if so required before

paying the customs duty and delivering the consignments to the

importers. It is also the submission of the appellant that the

investigation is based on the statements of the appellant which

were contradictory and that the appellant had an unblemished

track record before this incident. 16. It is also the submission of the appellant that it had not

committed any fraud with an intent to evade any duty or

prohibition. The appellant placed reliance on the order of this

Tribunal in Fle Fast Line Express Pvt Ltd. vs. Commissioner6 . 17. We agree with the appellant to the extent that it has no

control over what goods were actually sent in the consignments

by the overseas exporter and that it had no authority to open

and check the packages except to the extent of opening and

presenting to the Customs for examination on its direction.

However, the appellant should know on whose behalf it was filing

the courier Bill of Entry. It is impossible for a courier to not to

know who the consignee is. Before filing the courier Bill of Entry,

it is required to obtain a KYC and authorization from the

consignee. The reason for this is evident. The appellant as a

courier, acts as an agent of the consignee and pays duties on the

imported goods and after clearance delivers them at the

consignee's premises and collects the duty amount from the

consignee. It is impossible for the courier to not know the

identity or the address of the consignee for these reasons. In

this case, the consignments were invoiced in the names of

several persons who were found to be non-existent or who had

not ordered the goods in question. In other words, benami

carrier Bills of Entry were filed by the appellant to clear goods.

And the goods so attempted to be cleared were declared as

6 2021 (378) ELT 361 (Tri.-Del.) 15 household articles and were actually found to be electronic

goods. 18. Thus, the appellant had not obtained authorization from

the consignees, it is evident that it had not advised any of the

consignees and, in fact, the consignees either did not exist or had

not ordered the goods. The appellant admittedly was not in

possession of the KYC documents. Therefore, we have no

hesitation in holding that the appellant had violated Regulation

12(1) (iv), (iii), (iv) of CIER 2010. 19. The appellant had also not exercised due diligence in

providing the complete information to the customs authorities.

The least that could have been expected from the appellant is to

give the correct identity of the consignees. We have no doubt

that the appellant had violated the Regulations 12(1)(v) of CIER

2010. 20. Regulation 12(1)(vii) requires the courier to not to withhold

any information related to assessment and clearance of the

imported goods from the Assessing Officers. The goods declared

by the appellant in the Bills of Entry and the identity of the

courier were different from what was found. It is possible that

the appellant may not have known about the mis-declaration of

the goods apart from the fact that the consignees either did not

exist or had not ordered the consignments, it is evident that

these were benami courier Bills of Entry by the consignors. 16 21. We, therefore, see no good reason to differ from the finding

of the Commissioner that the appellant had violated Regulation

12(1)(vii) of CIER 2010. 22. For all these reasons we also find that the appellant did not

abide by all the provisions of the Regulation which would result in

violation of Regulation 12(1)(x) of CIER 2010. 23. Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the judgment of

Fle Fast Line Express Pvt Ltd. We find that in this case the

findings were that the importers were genuine and they had

existed and the courier had obtained the KYC documents which

were not fake and that the Bills of Entry were also filed as per the

invoices. The courier was unaware of the real contents of

consignments and had no authority to open and verify. Under

those circumstances, the revocation of the courier import

registration was set aside. 24. In view of the above, we find no reason to interfere with

the impugned order. The impugned order is, accordingly, upheld

and the appeal is dismissed. [Order pronounced on 01.08.2025 ]

 (JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA)
 PRESIDENT

 (P. V. SUBBA RAO)
 MEMBER ( TECHNICAL )
Tejo