Seventeenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Discussion on the motion for considertion of the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020 (Discussion Concluded and Bill Passed). माननीय सभापति : अब सहायता प्राप्त जननीय प्रौद्योगिकी (विनियमन)विधेयक, 2020 पर चर्चा करेंगे। माननीय मंत्री जी । THE MINISTER OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE AND MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS (SHRI MANSUKH MANDAVIYA): Hon. Chairperson, Sir, I rise to move: For conditions like when there is a complication of placenta previa where it is supposed to not continue the pregnancy because it becomes a high-risk pregnancy. In some cases, like the surrogate mother, couple wants the mother to give birth to the child. So, the doctors go for a conservative pregnancy. Then, that can become life threatening also to the mother. Therefore, having insurance coverage for the mother is very important. I thank the hon. Minister for especially addressing that issue also. This ART Bill allows the following beneficiaries to avail the benefits of the Assisted Reproductive Technology: one is the Indian married couples, male and female; single Indian females; single foreign females; and married foreign couples, male and female. I was listening to my colleague on the other side who was speaking of – why single males or only males cannot be a part of this? Then, a lot of people also question, why single male is not allowed to take the benefit of the Assisted Reproductive Technology. According to the Adoption Rules of 2017 in our country, a single male cannot adopt a girlchild. According to this Bill, sex selection of the embryo is not permissible. So, even if a male wants to adopt a child, it is difficult in the earlier stages to know that the conceived child or the child which is going to be born, is a male or female. Sir, it is because of this practical issue, it is not possible to have single male go for the ART procedures. The rights and duties of the ART Clinics is very important because this is where the entire procedure is going to take place. The ART Clinics must ensure that the women who are approaching to the ART Clinics for their services are above the legal age of marriage and below the age of 50 years whereas the men who are approaching the clinics for their services are above the legal age of marriage and below the age of 55 years.  What happens is this. In the past we have seen that there are many such cases, I will not say all, but in many clinics, many unmarried girls are going; many unmarried girls are participating in this ART procedure. A lot of exploitation has been done in the past. If a female is married and has her own child, many a time it also happens that while giving birth to a child, she might have a complication and because of which in the future, she might not be able to give birth to any child. That is the reason why it is essential that she is married and she has her own child. Then only, she should be going for the Assisted Reproductive Technology services. According to the Bill, the ART Clinic must also ensure that the oocyte donor is between the age of 23 and 35 years of age. It also says that the donor may donate oocyte only once in her lifetime and only seven oocytes shall be retrieved from the donor. Why only seven? I would also like to address that because when a female oocyte is retrieved, she is given Ovulation Induction Drugs (OID). There have been studies in the past when women are given too many high doses of OID to get more oocytes. This has been practiced in many ART clinics. They want more oocytes; then, they can make more money out of it. That is the reason why the Bill says, only seven oocytes because when we give OID, it causes ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome; in mild cases, it just secretes fluid in the body. But in severe cases, it can be life threatening to the female whom we are giving these drugs to get the oocyte. So, it is very properly put in clause here. In the best interest of the oocyte donors, the Bill also mandates that the oocyte shall be retrieved from a woman who has been married like I already said and she should have at least a child of three years of age. Under section 22 , the Bill mandates for an informed consent from all the parties which are involved in the procedure of the ART technology. To further affirm the well being of an oocyte donor, the Bill mandates that there must be an insurance coverage in favour of the oocyte donor as well. The most important thing I feel when we talk of ART procedure is the professional counselling of both the commissioning couple as well as the woman who is involved in this procedure. It is very important that the ART clinic must professionally counsel about the implications, the success rate and also guide them to make an informed decision which is very important. I am glad that the Bill also speaks on this. Any information at the ART clinic about the single woman or the commissioning couple is to be kept confidential which is very important because we all think of privacy these days. I think this is very, very important. Every ART clinic and bank must have a grievance redressal cell. If anybody has any complaint or anybody wants to take up any issues, the grievance redressal cell will definitely be addressing those issues. I would commendably congratulate the Government because recently, the National Family Health Survey-5 has come which has shown that India has a higher number of female citizens than male citizens. Though this indicates a significant and definite improvement in the space of gender equality at birth, this was also achieved through the relentless and constant work of the Government to ensure the same. When we are talking of technology, it can be a boon and a curse at the same time. Therefore, to ensure that the technology is used ethically, this Bill expressly prohibits sex selection at all stages of the procedure. Section 21 prohibits sex selection. Section 32 lays down penalty for those who engage in sex selection. Section 32 mandates imprisonment for a period extending from five to ten years. The Bill mandates that the rights of the child born through Assisted Reproductive Technology will have the same rights as that of a biological child born to the commissioning couple. The child will have the same rights, responsibilities and privileges that are otherwise available to a biological child under any law in force. Section 33 states that if the parents or the medical practitioner abandons the child, the person responsible will have to pay a fine of Rs. 5 lakhs to Rs. 10 lakhs for the first offence. If this is being done subsequently, they will be liable to be imprisoned for a term of eight to twelve years along with a fine which is above Rs. 10 lakhs and less than Rs. 20 lakhs. Different authorities to regulate the ART have also been put in place. To ensure maximum coverage among laws, the National Board, State Board and the National Registry shall be the same as the National Board that was mentioned in the Surrogacy Bill. The National Board will be constituted under sub- section 1 of section 15 of the Surrogacy Act. The powers and functions of the National Board will be to advise the Central Government on policy matters related to the ART. The National Board will remain the central policy making authority to bring uniformity in access, treatment services and quality across all clinics. They shall also govern the ART services provided, nature of services provided and the outcome of the services. However, since the penalties are different for both the Bills, the offences and penalties under the ART Bill will be administered by the registration authority under the ART Bill. According to section 40 of the Bill, these three authorities or the officers authorised by these may search the premises of any facility where they think that any offence under this Act has taken place. Under the quick development of technology and science along with the vast expansion of ART facilities in India, there is a real and urgent need to introduce a legislative framework to regulate the functioning of these entities. There are numerous social, legal, ethical, and scientific aspects to the ART procedures that need to be taken into account while devising the framework to govern the ART practices in India. The Bill has analysed ART landscape in India and has effectively addressed all the issues and malpractices that are there. The Bill has elaborately laid down a framework that expressly prevents exploitation of women and children involved in ART procedures and carries the best interests of donors and biological parents forward. Sir, we see that these days a lot of celebrities are using surrogacy to have children. Many celebrities who have already had their own biological children are also going in for surrogacy. This Bill will definitely ensure that people who are in need, the couples who are infertile, can avail the benefits of ART. It is not that just because somebody who has lots of money and does not want to carry a pregnancy can go for this. I think these things also will be checked upon by this Bill. Sir, lastly, I would like to make a small suggestion before I finish. Section 12 speaks of the State Board and its composition. In the composition, it says that an eminent medical practitioner will be one of the members on the Board. Instead of having ‘eminent medical practitioner’, if we have an ‘eminent gynaecologist or obstetrician’, I think that will be more appropriate in the context of the Bill. Sir, with these words, I wholeheartedly support the Bill. Thank you. SHRI GAUTHAM SIGAMANI PON ( KALLAKURICHI ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, thank you for giving me this opportunity to express my views on this Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. As a DMK Member of Parliament concerned over State powers, first I wish to start with the powers of the National and State Boards as provided in the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. Section 8 of the Bill states that the powers of the State Boards and every provision is only an insistence to follow the directions of the National Board. Sir, then I do not find any reason to have a State Board. The easiest way would have been to have a branch each of the National Board in every State like the Union Government officers already existing. So, the present Government has taken on itself the sole responsibility of regulating the emerging field. This obsession of this Government is very established now. Next, as a Medico, I wish to register a strong protest on behalf of the medical community. This Bill in the guise of stringent rules, tries to project the medical practitioners of assisted reproductive medicine as willing or conscious defaulters. Sir, regulating a medical practice need not focus so much on criminalising the whole process. Registration, maintenance of proper records and following protocols as provided in the Act is fine. But proposing stringent criminal clause and punishment provisions does not seem to be fair. Periodical inspections, monitoring, and summoning registered clinics for verifying the records and enquiry is all right. But search and seizure of records are thoroughly unwarranted. Tomorrow if a clause is added, arrest and remand can also be provided under this Act. Sir, there is room for irregularities in every service and regulating the same is in order. But medical service works on a different footing. Every decision taken can be interpreted in more than two ways. When so much care is taken to deal with the ‘complaint’ part, not a clause is there to protect or even defend the medical practitioner. As the Government is aware, this is an ever-growing new field and innovative methodologies are added every now and then. Hence, there should be a clause to defend the medical decisions taken in specific situations. The field has agencies who could exploit the commissioning couple and the doctors as well. Hence, the following few points need to be addressed immediately. 1.                The National and State Boards should necessarily have Assisted Reproductive Technology experts on them. 2.                The complaints could range from clerical errors to critically technical ones. So, the complaint redressing mechanism should not be handled by non-medico bureaucracy/police alone. The Complaints Evaluation Committee should have an ART expert in the panel. There should be a clause to punish the complainant if the complaint is proved false.  This will discourage false and motivated complaints. Lastly, the criminal and punishment clause providing for long imprisonment should be removed.  Defaulters and offenders should be dealt with as per the CrPC . Thank you, Sir. DR. KAKOLI GHOSH DASTIDAR ( BARASAT ): Thank you, Sir.  Our country has, for long, awaited the legislation on Assisted Reproductive Technology.  Nearly 60 million people of this country of adult age group were waiting for the legislation because nearly 60 million people at a time of the reproductive age group in this country suffer from infertility who are unable to bear a child after one year of unprotected coitus, that is, nearly 30 million couples.  So, it is at least laudable that the hon. Minister and the Government have brought this Bill, though the Surrogacy Bill was like putting the cart before the horse.  It was brought here before.  Surrogacy cannot take place unless in-vitro fertilisation takes place.  So, we brought the cart; now we are bringing the horse. What I would like to say is this.  I completely agree with Mr. Karti here in point about the exclusion of single parents, transgenders and LGBT couples at this age; they should be brought in.  They also have a right to become parents.  Extracorporeal fertilization, that is what ART is, which is fertilization outside the human body, has been compared to man’s landing on moon.  It is so specific, so sensitive and so super-specialised.  People who have been working on it for 30-40 years have devoted their lives to make the baby happen. Extracorporeal fertilization means taking out the gamete, that is the oocyte from the woman, and the sperm from the male partner, and mimicking completely whatever we have inside us, the human beings.  In physiological terms, it is known as milieu interieur.  We mimic this situation outside in the laboratory, in the computer which has oxygen, carbon dioxide, humidity as we have in our body and the baby is formed outside.  This is a very, very difficult task.  But it is a proud moment for India that we are contemporary with Professor Robert Edwards and Mr. Patrick Steptoe of the Bourn Hall Clinic, Cambridge.  They have been given the Nobel Prize but our own scientist Prof.  Subhash Mukherjee was not.  But he was a contemporary of not only Professor Robert Edwards and Mr. Patrick Steptoe but also of Townsend of Australia and Harvard Johns of the United States.  He was a Bengali.  I am proud of that.  But he had to commit suicide because the then Government, the Left Front Government ridiculed him.  They did not believe that he did it.  So, he committed suicide.  I have a very sensitive feeling towards him.  I am humble that I was his physiology student.  After his death, his work was taken up by one of his colleagues and another student, Dr. Baidyanath Chakraborty and Dr. Sudarshan Ghosh Dastidar, who not only carried forward his work, but also reported the first successful IVF pregnancy from Asia in the Third World Congress at Helsinki, Finland in 1984. Before we go deep into the Bill, from my side, I would like to elaborate a little bit on the procedure.  It is because the procedure has a great significance to this Bill today.  As Dr. Gavit was saying that ovarian hyperstimulation might take place. Ovarian hyperstimulation is a killer disease.  It is not talking about Gynaecology.  Sometimes an IVF laboratory is mixed up with a pathological laboratory.  It has nothing in common. A pathologist knows nothing about the IVF.  He has never handled the gametes.  An ovum is 100 microns in diameter, about as wide as a strand of hair, and can only be seen under microscope.  A sperm is much smaller than that.  When in vitro fertilization takes place, these two are mixed in petri dish.  Though it is called test tube baby these days, most people do not use test tubes.  They use petri dishes.  This petri dish is then put in the incubator for the baby to develop on its own. There is an advancement to this, which is known as intracytoplasmic sperm injection.  In case the sperm is so slow, or so less in number, hair-thin pipettes are used to place the sperm in an equipment called the micromanipulator, where the tail of the sperm is crushed and it is then injected into an ovum to develop into a baby.  This is called intracytoplasmic sperm injection, which is a much superior technology than ART or IVF. To master this technique of catching hold of sperm, by using joysticks, in the robotic movement and putting it in the ovum, a doctor spends his life time.    When we are talking about the National Board or the State Board, we are not mentioning who is going to be its member.  With due respect to the administrator, with due respect to the officers who are going to be the members of the Board, I would like to say that they have no knowledge about these equipment, or the scientific procedure involved.  So, if they themselves do not know or understand the procedure, how are they going to catch hold of those erring clinics?  How will they be able to know who is doing wrong, cheating the patient, and who is actually doing AID but saying that he has done ICSI.  What is the difference between the two? AID is Artificial Insemination by Donor.  It is a very simple and easy technique.  A woman who is ovulating comes to the doctor saying that her husband’s sperm count is very low.  A doctor who knows about ICSI will say that he can use his husband’s sperms.  Even we have an advanced technique to ICSI, that is TESA, in which a single sperm can be taken out by cutting the testis of a man and then following ICSI.  In this way, the doctor can assure the patient that the baby will have the genetic material of its own father because it is his sperm which he has taken out and used.  But, if a doctor is trying to cheat, he can take somebody else’s sperm from the sperm bank and use it.  If the administrator of the Board does not know about this procedure, he will not be able to find out whether the patient has been cheated.  So, it is completely wrong, erroneous, and – mind my words – I would say that some … * person has coined this term of administrator in the Board.  It is not done.  The National Board or the State Board cannot be formed like this. Bengal has a role in the renaissance.  Bengal has come up again through music, culture, and art because of our hon. Chief Minister, Kumari Mamata Banerjee.  Some Member was talking about poor patients.  Kumari Mamata Banerjee has opened a state-of-art ART Centre of Excellence in a State Government hospital of West Bengal where poor patients can take the benefit of free IVF or ICSI treatment.  This has already been started.  If the Government want to control or stop the patients from being cheated, such centres must be opened in the Government sector because the private sector has been cheating the patients.  I will here mention only the name of the State and not the name of the doctor because I do not want to highlight her.  In Gujarat there was a lady, who nearly owned a whole village, who used to go to poor ladies, give them food for one year, take out their ovum, make them surrogate mothers and cheat them.  I do not want to name her.  I am sure the Government knows about her.  I have just mentioned the State.  I do not want to mention the name of the person because it is not the State which is erring but it is that particular doctor who is erring. So, there are doctors who want to err and cheat patients. This kind of a National Board and a State Board is completely erroneous because unless the doctor or the member of the Board knows about the subject, they cannot catch hold of the patients. The provision with regard to the registry is good. The clinics should be registered. The clinics should be made accountable and they should be putting in the data that how many oocytes were retrieved. Dr. Heena Gavit was talking about hyperstimulation. Each woman ovulates once a month in the reproductive age group. But when we are doing this artificial insemination, we are giving them injections depending upon her hormonal status and too many eggs might come out. The eggs might be so many -- that is called hyperstimulation -- that there is extravasation for fluid in the third space and she might get collected fluid in her abdominal ascites. Even fluid might collect in her thorax or hydrothorax and she might die. So, you have to know where to stop this stimulation of the injections and to stop that, a qualified doctor, who has been working on the subject for the last 20 or 25 or 30 or 40 years, must see the result of the rising blood E2 level every day. So, unless the Board is qualified enough, it will not be able to catch it. How do you see how many eggs are coming out? You cannot see it from the top. So, for that, we do a transvaginal ultrasound daily. We measure the doppler blood flow daily and we measure the size of the follicles daily. So, one doctor has to sit throughout the day and night measuring the follicles every day in the woman to see that she will not die. It is a very humble moment for me. I am this country’s first Transvaginal Ultrasound Sonologist. I started my work in 1980-81. I have forgotten the year. Maybe, it is more than 42 years. So, unless you know how many eggs she is bringing out, you cannot caution her that she might die. You just stop the medicines and the injections, take out the follicles and let her live. There should be a qualified person in the Board. The Bill says nothing about the qualified persons. We cannot have so many boards – one board here, one board there and everywhere. Here a prick, there a chick, and everywhere a chick chick. We do not have so many qualified people in this country. There are a few qualified people who have been working for the last 20 or 30 or 40 years. So, you might have one single board and it might be a centralised reporting telling who is doing what. Many clinics have been cheating women. Many women have lost their lives. Many women have lost their properties trying to get a baby because everybody wants to have a baby after marriage. Nowadays, before marriage, young people want to have a baby. Now, we have to keep up to the times. If they are of age, why cannot we give them a benefit of becoming parents? We should be able to do that. Science is there. Another erroneous term here is the ‘bank’. This is not the State Bank in Kolkata or the State Bank in Delhi. It is talking about ‘gamete’ banks. Where to get the gametes from? As far as male is concerned, it is very easy. Males know how to take out the samples. That is treated and the same is put in the bank. But for the women again, she has to stimulate it with injections. The folliculometry has to be done through the transvaginal ultrasound -- the serial rise of the estradiol level like I was talking for the patient -- and then, through the vagina, the ovum retrieval has to be done. So how do you form an ovum bank without the qualified people? Who trains the qualified people? As far as I know, even till date, we do not have an ART degree here in the country. Please let me tell you that Gynaecologists are not ART specialists. Dr. Heena Gavit, I am sorry to say this. Gynaecology has only one chapter on it. Williams has only one chapter maybe. Gynaecologists, per se, are not infertility specialists. Infertility specialists are those who have worked with the gametes. They are the ones who have been doing it for twenty years and who know the subject right from the beginning. So, who will form the Board and who will monitor the bank? You were also talking about the gamete bank and zygote bank, that is, an embryo bank. To form the embryo, you need an IVF lab. So, unless there is a proper and a government-monitored IVF laboratory with serious, sincere and experienced doctors, how do you form a gamete? As I have told you earlier, take the oocyte from the lady through the transvaginal ultrasound and take the sperm from the man if it is a masturbated specimen and if he does not have a semen outside, then cut the testis and take it out. This is called TESA or PESA. You put them together and make the baby. Then, you put the embryo in the bank. So, you need a laboratory. The bank and the laboratory must be in the same place because if the bank is somewhere and the laboratory is somewhere, you take out the egg here and make the baby here and carry it to the bank. It will die on the way. The baby is smaller than your hair strand. This Bill today, I think, also goes to support corporates. There are corporates and we know about them. I do not want to mention the names here. They have come into India.  They are mostly international corporates.  It will support them because the international corporates will be using foolhardy gullible patients. They will tell them that they will get them donor. They take money from them and do not give to the donor or to the surrogate. So, this will support the corporates and not the poor people of the country. It will not support the sixty million brothers and sisters who are looking for a child, for whom this Bill is being brought today and for that case, I am so grateful to the Minister. Hon. Minister should give a thought to the things that I have been speaking about. This Bill has to be changed. It has to go to scrutiny and the Board must be manned by people who know the subject. But banks have to be completely abolished unless it is associated with an IVF laboratory manned by the people who know the subject and who are not actually pathologists. I am not trying to demean the pathologists. If a pathologist has been working on IVF for 30 years, then welcome them. If an hon. gynecologist is working on IVF for 30 years, then welcome them. Otherwise, every gynecologist is not an IVF specialist because it is not taught in MBBS or MD curriculum. You have to give thought to all these things before we come to the Bill to pass it. Thank you so much Sir. DR. BEESETTI VENKATA SATYAVATHI ( ANAKAPALLE ): Thank you Chairperson Sir. On behalf of YSR Party and under the dynamic leadership of Shri Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy garu, I stand here to support the Bill. Many previous Speakers like Dr. Kakoli Ghosh and Dr. Heena have highlighted many points.  While hearing Dr. Kakoli Ji’s speech, I felt like I am hearing gynecology class during my post-graduation days. It is a pleasure that I am here with you all. Respected Chairperson Sir, from my Party, I want to make a few points about the Bill. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020 provides for the regulation and supervision of the assisted reproductive technology clinics and assisted reproductive technology banks. So, this Bill is for regulation, prevention of misuse, safe and ethical practice of assisted reproductive technology services and the matters connected therewith. Chairperson Sir, this Bill also intends to protect the affected women and children from exploitation, support the oocyte donor with an insurance cover, regulate multiple embryo implantation and protect the children born through ART.  The Bill, further, aims to regulate cryopreservation of sperm, oocytes and embryo by the ART Banks and intends to make pre-genetic implantation testing mandatory for pre-existing heritable or genetic diseases only for the benefit of the child born through assisted reproductive technology. So, again, Chairperson Sir, India’s fertility industry is an integral part of the country’s growing medical tourism industry which experienced 30 per cent growth in 2000 and 15 per cent growth between 2005 and 2010.  Despite so much activity in India, there are no standardisation protocols yet and reporting is still very inadequate. Furthermore, there are only guidelines on ART and no law still exists. There has been debate on the medical, ethical and legal aspects of the ART. That is why, this Bill has come to regulate all these things. So, to mention a few points, the Bill provides that every ART clinic and bank must be registered under the National Registry of Banks and Clinics of India. The National Registry will be established under the Bill and will act as a central database with the details of all ART clinics and banks in the country. State Governments will appoint Registration Authorities for facilitating the registration process. Hon. Chairperson, Sir, a child born through ART will be deemed to be a biological child of the commissioning couple and will be entitled to the rights and privileges available to a natural child of a commissioning couple. A donor will not have any parental rights over the child. These are the few regularisation points that I wanted to make. The other point is about the establishment of Boards. With regard to the national and State Boards, the Bill provides that the national and State Boards for surrogacy constituted under the Surrogacy Regulation Bill, 2019 will act as a national and State Board respectively for the regulation of the ART services also. The key powers and functions of the national Board include advising the Central Government on ART related policy matters and reviewing and monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the Bill. Any clinic or bank advertising or offering sex selective ART will be punishable with imprisonment between five and ten years, or fine between Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 25 lakh, or both. No court will take cognizance of offences under the Bill except on a complaint made by the national or State Boards or by any officer authorised by the Boards. The Standing Committee also made some recommendations. The Committee noted that the cost of ART services varies across clinics. It recommended that a Standard Operating Procedure should be formulated to ensure the uniform cost of ART services and also adhere to global quality standards. Further, a monitoring mechanism should be set up under the national Board to prohibit commercialisation of ART services by the private sector providers. Sir, before I conclude, I would like to submit that the Bill is a welcome legislation and the impact of it would be that it would bring about the registration of all the clinics; it would control unethical ART practices; it would improve the quality of ART services; it would facilitate framing of requisite policies as we would be having all the data; and most importantly, the needy couples would be more sure of the ethical practice of ART. At present there are only six IVF clinics in Government sector, namely, in AIIMS, Lady Hardinge, PGI, Chandigarh, KGM Lucknow, Army Hospital Delhi and Pune, while remaining thousands of IVF centres are in the private sector. So, the Government should ensure that each medical college or premier Government hospitals or institute must have IVF for ART facilities so as to enable the common poor masses to avail the services of ART. Sir, finally, from our State of Andhra Pradesh I would like to highlight that post-bifurcation of the State – since the hon. Health Minister is present here – absence of tier I cities in the State has resulted in no scope for private healthcare sector to provide super-speciality healthcare services in the State. This is only possible through setting up of public sector institutions. Hence, I would like to request the Government, through you, to approve the proposal for setting up of 13 new medical colleges that have been submitted already by our hon. Chief Minister, Shri Y S R Jaganmohan Reddy Garu. Sir, thank you for very much for giving me this opportunity to discuss the provisions of the Bill. Thank you. डॉ. आलोक कुमार सुमन ( गोपालगंज ): सभापति महोदय, मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं कि आपने मुझे दी असिस्टेड रीप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी बिल पर बोलने का मौका दिया। यह विधेयक देश में महिलाओं के कल्याण के लिए उठाया गया एक महत्वपूर्ण कदम है। जैसा कि हम सभी जानते हैं कि संसद में दी सरोगेसी(रेगुलेशन) बिल, 2020 को पेश करने और दी मेडिकल टर्मिनेशन ऑफ प्रेगनेंसी (अमेंडमेंट) बिल, 2020 को मंजूरी देने के बाद इस विधेयक को वर्तमान सत्र में लाया गया है, जो महिलाओं के प्रजनन अधिकारों के संरक्षण के लिए एक सराहनीय पहल है। महोदय, पूरे विश्व में लाखों की तादाद में पुरुष एवं महिलाएं संतान के अभाव में तनाव में जीते हैं। अपने देश में रीप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी का लम्बा इतिहास है। 25 जुलाई, 1978 को विश्व में पहला टेस्ट ट्यूब बेबी पैदा हुआ। हमारा देश रिप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी के क्षेत्र में काफी आगे बढ़ा। इसके परिणामस्वरूप वर्ष 1978 में तीन महीने बाद3 अक्टूबर को दूसरे टैस्ट ट्यूब बेबी ने जन्म लिया और मेडिकल क्षेत्र में डिबेट का विषय बन गया। इसके साथ ही सोशल एंड लीगल इम्पलीकेशन पर चर्चा शुरू हो गई। यह भारत की बहुत बड़ी उपलब्धि थी। मेडिकल क्षेत्र में इसका प्रभाव ऐसा पड़ा कि अनुमान लगाया गया क‍ि वर्ष 2026तक 4500 करोड़ रुपये की मार्केट इस टेक्नोलॉजी के विस्तार से होगी। भारत एशियाई देशों में इस टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग करने वाला तीसरा देश होगा। मैं सदन को बताना चाहता हूं कि आईसीएमआर के आंकड़ों के अनुसार देश में 512 एआरटी क्लिनिक एनरोल्ड हैं जबकि वर्ष 1999 में केवल 60 एआरटी क्लिनिक्स थे। वर्ष 1978 में आईवीएफ के आने से एआरटी के बारे में डिबेट शुरू हुई। साथ ही साथ वर्ष 1985-86 में पहली बार सरोगेसी द्वारा मदरहुड में सफलता मिली। भारत में वर्ष2002 में सरोगेसी अलाऊ हुआ। बढ़ती हुई वैज्ञानिक सफलता को ध्यान में रखते हुए जरूरी हो गया कि रिप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी की एथिकल गाईडलाइन तैयार की जाए। वर्तमान विधेयक को, इस क्षेत्र में मजबूती देने के साथ, बिना एनरोलमेंट के क्लिनिक्स को रैगुलेट करने के लिए लाया गया है। महोदय, वर्ष1985में पूरे विश्व में 10 लाख बच्चों का जन्म हुआ। एआरटी का विस्तार हुआ,लेकिन यह टेक्नोलॉजी काफी एक्सपेंसिव है। विश्व स्तर पर विकासशील देशों में मात्र 18 से 40परसेंट ही इसकी सफलता है। इसलिए मेरा सरकार को सुझाव है कि इसकी कॉस्ट को इफेक्टिवली रैगुलेट किया जाए ताकि आम आदमी और गरीब परिवार को इस टेक्नोलॉजी का लाभ मिल सके। महोदय, एम्स की रिपोर्ट के अनुसार 120 से180 लाख कपल्स भारत में हर साल इन्फर्टाइल कपल के रूप में डाइग्नोज़ होते हैं। इस बिल से सबसे ज्यादा फायदा यह है कि सहायक प्रजनन तकनीक की सेवाओं को यह कंट्रोल करेगा और बांझ दंपतियों में एआरटी के तहत नैतिक तौर तरीकों को अपनाए जाने के संबंध में कहीं अधिक भरोसा पैदा करेगा। यह बिल नेशनल बोर्ड,स्टेट बोर्ड, नेशनल रजिस्ट्री, स्टेट रजिस्ट्रेशन अथारिटी से जुड़े क्लिनिकों और एआरटी बैंकों को रैगुलर टर्म्स प्रोवाइड करेगा। पिछले कुछ वर्षों के दौरान एआरटी का चलन काफी तेजी से बढ़ा है। भारत में तेजी से एआरटी सैंटर्स और हर साल होने वाली एआरटी साइकल्स की संख्या में सर्वाधिक वृद्धि हुई है। देश में एआरटी ने खासकर, इन-विट्रो फर्टीलाइजेशन,बांझपन के शिकार तमाम लोगों में नई उम्मीद जगा दी है। इससे जुड़े कई कानूनी, नैतिक और सामाजिक मुद्दे भी सामने आए हैं। आज भारत ग्लोबल फर्टीलिटी इंडस्ट्री के मुख्य केंद्रों में शामिल हो गया है और रिप्रोडक्टिव मेडिकल टूरिज्म भी तेजी से बढ़ रहा है। भारत में रिप्रोडक्टिव क्लिनिक हर तरह की सेवाएं ऑफर कर रहे हैं। जैसे इन-विट्रो फर्टीलाइजेशन,इंट्रा-साइटो प्लाज्मिक स्पर्म इंजेक्शन, गैमेट इंट्रा फैलोपियन ट्रांसफर, जाइगोट इंट्रा फैलोपियन ट्रांसफर, प्रि इम्पलांटेशन,जेनेटिक डाइग्नोसिस, क्रायो प्रिजर्वेशन ऑफ गैमेट्स एंड एम्ब्रयो एंड यूज ऑफ फर्टीलिटी मेडिकेशन और जेस्टेशनल सरोगेसी जैसी अनेक सेवाएं मुहैया कराने के बावजूद अब तक प्रोटोकॉल का कोई मानकीकरण नहीं हो पाया है। इस बारे में सूचनाएं देने का चलन काफी हद तक अपर्याप्त है। इस बिल के आने से महिलाओं एवं बच्चों को शोषण से संरक्षण प्राप्‍त होगा। एआरटी क्लिनिक में आईवीएफ रेसीपिएंट्स का डाटा भी उपलब्ध नहीं है। अभी तक आईसीएमआर ही एआरटी क्लिनिक्स को पूरे देश में एक्रेडिटेशन,सुपरविजन और रैगुलराइज करती है। इस बिल के आने से एआरटी क्लिनिक्स में हर पहलू पर ध्यान दिया जाएगा। मैं बताना चाहता हूं कि माननीय मुख्यमंत्री नीतिश कुमार जी द्वारा इंदिरा गांधी आयुर्विज्ञान संस्थान पटना,जो बिहार का प्रीमियम हैल्थ सैंटर है, में डिपार्टमेंट ऑफ रिप्रोडक्टिव मेडिसन स्थापित कराया गया, जो आज सराहनीय काम कर रहा है। यह इंस्टीट्यूट न केवल बिहार, बल्कि ईस्टर्न इंडिया के लिए भी काम कर रहा है। एआरटी बिल, 2020 के पास हो जाने से निश्चित ही डिपार्टमेंट ऑफ रिप्रोडक्टिव मेडिसन को फायदा होगा। मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ इस बिल का समर्थन करते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। … ( व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : आपकी बात रेकॉर्ड में नहीं जाएगी। … ( व्यवधान) … * 

डॉ. निशिकांत दुबे ( गोड्डा ):सभापति महोदय, दादा दूसरे की बातों पर बहुत क्वैश्चन करते हैं। यहां एक गलती हो गई थी। काकोली जी बहुत अच्छा बोलीं। मैं उनका बड़ा सम्मान करता हूं, लेकिन जब भी उन्होंने ममता जी को संबोधित किया तो ‘श्रीमती’ कहकर संबोधित किया। मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि उस नाम को सुधार लिया जाए। सुश्री या कुमारी जो भी ममता बनर्जी जी हैं, वह लिख दिया जाए। वह ‘श्रीमती’ नहीं हैं। … (व्यवधान) HON. CHAIRPERSON :  We will check it. … (Interruptions) माननीय सभापति : कोई अन्य बात रेकॉर्ड में नहीं जाएगी। … (व्यवधान)… * 

  
 

 

श्रीमती संगीता आजाद ( लालगंज ): धन्यवाद सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे असिस्टेड रिप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी बिल पर अपना विचार रखने का मौका मिला, उसके लिए मैं आपके साथ-साथ अपनी बहुजन समाज पार्टी की मुखिया बहन कुमारी मायावती जी का भी आभार व्यक्त करती हूं। इस विधेयक के बन जाने के उपरान्त सरोगेसी के क्षेत्र में अवैध रूप से हो रहे व्यापार पर प्रतिबन्ध लगाने व सामाजिक कुरीतियों को रोकने में प्रभावी कदम होगा। इस बिल के बदौलत बांझता से ग्रस्त अनेक व्यक्तियों को न केवल एक आशा की किरण दिखाई देती है,अपितु इसमें विधिक,नैतिक और सामाजिक मुददों को भी विस्तार से सम्मिलित किया गया है। लेकिन, इसके चलते बहुत सी कानूनी, नैतिक व सामाजिक चुनौतियां भी सामने आई हैं। एआरटी पिछले कुछ वर्षों में बहुत तेजी से विकसित हुआ है। भारत में एआरटी केन्द्रों की संख्या और हर साल की जाने वाली एआरटी प्रक्रियाओं की संख्या में बड़े पैमाने पर वृद्धि हुई है। भारत विगत वर्षों में इस वैश्विक प्रजनन उद्योग के प्रमुख केन्द्रों में से एक बन गया है, जिसमें जननीय चिकित्सा पर्यटन एक महत्वपूर्ण कार्यकाल है। भारत में क्लिनिक-युग्मक दान, अंतगर्भाशयी वीर्यसेचन, इंट्रा विट्रोफर्टिलाइजेशन,इन्ट्रा साइटोप्लाज्मिक स्पर्म इंजेक्शन, पूर्व गर्भरोपण अनुवांशिक निदान और जेस्टेशनल सरोगेसी जैसी लगभग सभी एआरटी सेवाएं प्रदान करते हैं। भारत में इतने अधिक कार्यकलापों के बावजूद, इस संबंध में अभी तक न्यायाचारों का कोई मानकीकरण नहीं हुआ है। अभी भी बहुत कम मामलों की जानकारी मिल पाई है। इसके अलावा, ए.आर.टी. को विनियमित करने के लिए कोई कानून नहीं है। इसे दिशा-निर्देशों के माध्यम से ही विनियमित किया जाता है। एआरटी बिल का उद्देश्य एआरटी बैंकों और क्लीनिकों को विनियमित करना है। एआरटी सुरक्षित और नैतिक अभ्यास को अनुमति देता है और महिलाओं तथा बच्चों को शोषण से बचाता है, लेकिन विधेयक सिर्फ विवाहित, विषम लैंगिक जोड़ों और विवाह की उम्र से ऊपर की महिलाओं को एआरटी का उपयोग करने की अनुमति देता है परंतु एकल पुरुष, समलैंगिक जोड़े और एल.जी.बी.टी.क्यू.आई. व्यक्तियों तथा जोड़ों को एआरटी तक पहुँचने से बाहर करता है। यह संविधान के अनुच्छेद 14 और पुट्टास्वामी फैसले में निर्धारित निजता के अधिकार का उल्लंघन करता है। जहाँ सर्वोच्च न्यायालय ने कहा है कि विवाह की पवित्रता, प्रजनन की स्वतंत्रता, पारिवारिक जीवन की पसंद और होने की गरिमा सभी व्यक्तियों के लिए समान है। महोदय,विधेयक में अण्डादाता की लिखित सहमति की आवश्यकता होती है, लेकिन प्रक्रिया से पहले या उसके दौरान उसकी काउंसलिंग या उसकी सहमति वापस लेने की क्षमता प्रदान नहीं करता है। उसे वेतन, समय और प्रयास के नुकसान के लिए कोई मुआवजा या खर्च की प्रतिपूर्ति नहीं मिलती है। शारीरिक सेवाओं के लिए भुगतान करने में विफल रहने से मुक्त श्रम का गठन होता है, जो संविधान के अनुच्छेद 23 द्वारा निषिद्ध है। विधेयक में पूर्व प्रत्यारोपण आनुवांशिक परीक्षण की आवश्यकता होती है, जहां भ्रूण पहले से मौजूद आनुवांशिक जीवन के लिए खतरा या आनुवांशिक रोगों से पीड़ित होता है। इसे कमीशनिंग पार्टियों की अनुमति के साथ अनुसंधान के लिए दान किया जाता है। इन विकारों में विशिष्टिकरण की आवश्यकता है। यह यूजेनिक्स के एक अनुमय कार्यक्रम को बढ़ावा देने वाला बिल है। विधेयक के पूर्व संस्करणों द्वारा भ्रूण का उपयोग करके अनुसंधान को विनियमित किया है, जिसे वापस लिया जाना चाहिए। हालांकि बिल और एसआरबी क्रमशः एआरटी व सरोगेसी को विनियमित करते हुए दोनों क्षेत्रों के बीच काफी ओवरलैप है, फिर भी बिल एक साथ काम नहीं करते हैं। कोर एआरटी प्रक्रिया को अपरिभाषित छोड़ दिया गया है। इसमें से कोई एसआरबी में परिभाषित है,लेकिन बिल में नहीं है। युगल, बांझपन,एआरटी क्लीनिक और बैंकों को चालू करने की परिभाषाओं को बिल के बीच सिंक्रनाइज़ करने की आवश्यकता है। बिल एसआरबी के तहत सरोगेसी बोर्ड को एआरटी के लिए सलाहकार निकायों के रूप में कार्य करने के लिए नामित करता है,जोकि वांछनीय है। हालांकि दोनों विधेयकों ने पंजीकरण के लिए कई निकायों की स्थापना की है,जिसके परिणामस्वरूप दोहराव होना है। यह इस बिल की कमी है। दोनों विधेयक के तहत समान अपमानजनक व्यवहार के लिए अलग-अलग सजा दी जाती है। इस विधेयक के तहत अपराधी जमानती है, लेकिन एसआरबी के तहत नहीं है। इस विधेयक के तहत10 साल के लिए और एसआरबी के तहत 25 साल का रिकॉर्ड्स बनाए रखना होता है। सरोगेसी क्लीनिक, एआरटी क्लीनिक द्वारा की गई एक ही कार्रवाई विभिन्न नियमों को आकर्षित करती है। बिल में क्लीनिक और बैंकों के लिए एक शिकायत प्रकोष्ठ बनाए रखने की आवश्यकता है,लेकिन ये एकतरफा होंगे। इसके बजाय क्लीनिकों में नैतिकता समितियां होनी चाहिए एवं अनिवार्य परामर्श सेवाएं भी क्लीनिकों में स्वतंत्र होनी चाहिए। पीसी-पीएनडीटी बिल के विपरीत एआरटी जीवन बनाने के बारे में है। चिकित्सा लापरवाही के लिए हमारे पास वर्तमान में कई सारे कानून हैं। एआरटी विधेयक में जेल सहित इतनी कड़ी सजा देने की कोई अनिवार्यता नहीं है। जैसा कि हम सभी को ज्ञात है कि इस बिल के पास हो जाने के उपरांत राष्ट्रीय व राज्य स्तर पर एक बोर्ड गठित किया जाना है और उन बोर्डों की कार्य प्रणाली तथा दायित्व को निर्वहन के संबंध में विदित किया गया है। मेरा सरकार को यह सुझाव है कि केन्द्र सरकार द्वारा बनाए जाने वाले इस संबंधित बोर्ड में अनुसूचित जाति व अनुसूचित जनजाति के सदस्यों को भी प्रतिनिधि के रूप में अवश्य रखा जाए। इसके साथ ही, यह सेलेक्ट कमेटी का प्रस्ताव है कि राज्य में तीन महिला विशेषज्ञों के सदस्य के रूप में रखा जाए। इसके साथ ही साथ राज्य में 10 अतिरिक्त सदस्य जो सरोगेसी क्षेत्र में अनुभव रखते हैं, उनको नामित करने के लिए सेलेक्ट कमेटी में सिफारिश की गई है। इन 10 अतिरिक्त सदस्यों में भी कम से कम 4 अनुसूचित जाति व अनुसूचित जनजाति की महिलाओं व पुरुषों को रखा जाए, जिससे इसको कंट्रोल किया जा सके। सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे इस विधेयक पर बोलने का अवसर प्रदान किया,उसके लिए मैं आपके प्रति बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SADANAND SULE ( BARAMATI ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I stand here and thank the hon. Minister for bringing this very important Bill to Parliament today. I would like to congratulate my colleague Kakoli Ghosh who has outdone herself in her speech today. It was really one of the finest speeches we have heard in Parliament after a long time. She was very patiently heard by everybody. My colleague Sangeeta Azad is not a doctor, my colleague Karti Chidambaram, and Dr. Satyavati, who herself is an MD, have thrown a lot of light on a very serious subject. Sir, I am not a doctor. But I do understand the trauma a couple goes through. I was just talking to my friend Kanimozhi about the same thing. When such a Bill comes up, it really makes you to introspect and think about your life that something which comes so easily to millions of women, there is a cross-section of couples or human beings who have such difficulty in having a child. I think having a child is one of the happiest moments for any woman in this world. So, I congratulate the hon. Minister for bringing this Bill. But I would just like to ask him a few questions and give some suggestions to him. I think this is a very wonderful and one of the finest debates where, I think, we have all learnt something new today. I would like to ask the hon. Minister as to how the Surrogacy Bill and this Bill are going to complement each other, because there was one big point which everybody has made and I would also like to highlight. I am not going to repeat any points which have been made earlier by my colleagues and they are all very valid. We all feel that besides the couples who want the children, there is a cross section of single people in this country today, who also want to have children especially the LGBTQ community, and a single father, which I think Karti Chidambaram talked about. Here, Heena Gavit clarified that because of the Adoption Rule, 2007, single men cannot adopt a girl; and because they cannot adopt a girl, they cannot avail of this Bill. I think, this is something, we as a society need to introspect.   I agree, a single father is a man, and I think, here we will have to talk to the Minister of Women and Child Development.  I would request the hon. Health Minister to speak to the hon. Minister of Women and Child Development.  Maybe, a lot of us can also help and contribute, and work out on it after an extensive discussion. But I feel that we should not deprive any human being, who deserves or wants to have a child.   So, just to leave any man out because there are some adoption rules, will not be fair.  Rules are made by all of us and they have to be inclusive.  That is the beauty of legislation.  So, why do we not put all the bright minds together, take technical people who have worked on this, and see how we can make best use of it? Everybody can make use of all such legislations that we make and this being one of the most important one. Another point, which I would like to make to the hon. Minister, who is so patiently listening to us is, what Kakoli Ghosh also said.  It is really about the timing of the Bill.  ‘The horse before the cart or the cart before the horse’, is what  has happened.  But I think, we must expedite this and make sure that the Bill, which is pending before the Rajya Sabha, is moved so that we can integrate the two Bills.  You can make sure that they are implemented flawlessly in this country. Kakoli Ghosh extensively talked about the technicality of people, who will be on the Committee.  I propose to the hon. Minister, with the permission of all my colleagues, that why don’t you start with Parliament?  We have Satyavathi-ji and Kakoli Ghoshi-ji who are so qualified. So, why does the Parliament not promote such people, who genuinely want to do something?  They have done things on the field and it is not that the first time they would be doing it.   Heena is also a doctor.  So, they can choose and make sure that this Committee has got people who are working on the field.  I have nothing against it.  It is wonderful that there should be Secretaries in the Committee.  As Dr. Kakoli Ghosh said, we have no objection to Secretaries being there in the Committee.  But then, the Secretaries, who are going to be there, have to be highly qualified like my friends Dr. Satyavathi, Dr. Kakoli and Dr. Heena.   So, I feel that the Committee has to be very, very critical.   If I am put on this Committee, I am not sure whether I would be able to contribute like all these women colleagues who are  so qualified to do it. So, I think, it is going to be very, very important of how to get this Committee going. I would like to highlight one more point to the hon. Minster.   There is a pre-implementation genetic testing.  Will you be allowing this?  The technical part of pre-implementation genetic testing is that this is not for sex determination but it is for disease determination. So, what is the Government line on this?  What would the Mantralya like to propose for this testing?  It is because the parents would not really want to give birth to a child who could be having deformity.  It is the question of the life of the parents and the child. We do not even know how long the child will live.  Normally, it would be either down syndrome or epilepsy or cerebral palsy.  There are so many issues that the parents go through.  So, if there is a chance that we could address this as an extension, it would be good. I am sure, Kakoli Ghosh-ji and Satyavathi-ji would throw some light on this later on and explain to us whether this kind of  technology can be made use of. I am saying it because this Bill seems to be silent on disease control. So, can you guide us on how we can take this forward? About the clinics and technicians, the other Members have already spoken extensively. But to make this affordable to all, why don’t you give it as a project to every State?  You may give a target to every State.  We would want firstly the skilled workers to do it.  Whatever I understand from the speech of Dr. Kakoli Ghosh is that it is a highly technical and skilled job.  There are a lot of times and even in Government hospitals, we do not get people even to do simple sonographies.   So, here, the big question is that if we do not have technicians for a simple sonography, how are we going to expand the ART? So, is the Government doing something through the Skill Development Department to make sure that we put this as an agenda as a top priority programme for any Government, be it our State or your State or the country as a whole?   Why don’t you take the help of FOGSI, which includes great gynaecologists?  They have also written to you. They have a great organisation in India. 16.00 hrs 

          I think, the COVID-19 has taught all of us that the entire medical fraternity has exceptionally delivered and, actually, outdone themselves during COVID-19 times.  Why are we looking at only putting everybody in jail?  Jail is not the solution.  The doctors are not criminals.  They have proved to be God right now in India.  In COVID, who has saved our lives?  It is the administration which has worked overtime and all the doctors and medical workers who worked so hard during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Therefore, I urge the hon. Minister to find a way out.  Just putting in jail all our doctors may not be a solution.  Why do not you take the help of IMA or FOGSI or all such organisations instead of putting criminal charges on doctors? Is there not a way where their institute, IMA or the FOGSI, can punish the doctors instead of us punishing and putting them in jail?  I do not think, putting them in jail is going to be a solution.  I think, this is something about which you must talk to all doctors.  Your MoS, Bharati tai, is also a doctor.  Why do you not ask her to talk to the fraternity?  Sanjay bhai, who is sitting here, is also a doctor.  I am sure, they will all agree with what I am saying.  This is not about you versus us but this is largely a social goal that we have to achieve.  We have to make sure that the doctors of this country feel very secure and safe.  We cannot threaten our doctors.  So, this is a very good act that you all are doing.  Technically, I am not sure if India is really ready and sound and, therefore, I urge the hon. Minister, in his reply, to see how we, as States, can work better with you to improve the situation of all the women. Just a last line that I would like to read what the lady Gita Aravamudan, an award-winning journalist, said in the book, Baby Makers: The Story of Indian Surrogacy.  She said in her book: “The Constitution gives a woman the right to reproduce or not to reproduce as she wishes and she has the right to privacy when she makes her reproductive choices.”  So, this has to be incorporated in the Bill.  If I have the right to reproduce, I mean, I can hire a surrogate.  I can go in for IVF whether I am a transgender or a lesbian or a divorcee.  I have this right as I wish.  This is a woman who has lent her womb, who has all these rights.  So, I request you to be considerate.  This is not a gender issue; this is a social issue.  I think, sometimes, some things should be dealt with the heart.  Thank you, Sir. श्री अनुभव मोहंती ( केन्द्रपाड़ा ): आपने मुझे इस गंभीर विषय पर बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। सर, मैं अपनी बात वहीं से शुरू करूंगा, जहां पर माननीय सदस्य सुप्रिया सुले जी ने अपनी बात खत्म की है। This is, definitely, not a gender issue.  It is an issue for all of us.  We have to think above genders. 16.03 hrs                       (Dr. Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar in the Chair) 

पुरुष होने के नाते, मैं इस विषय पर यह कहने पर गर्व करता हूं कि हम आज इस बिल के माध्यम से सरोगेसी और जीवन देने की बात कर रहे हैं। साथ ही, हम आज इस चीज पर चर्चा कर रहे हैं कि कैसे महिलाओं को सुरक्षा प्रदान करें, उनको हर तरह से प्रोटेक्शन दें और कॉमर्शियल सरोगेसी में किसी तरह की मिसइंटरप्रिटेशन न की जाए और उसमें किसी तरह की करप्शन न रहे, उस पर कैसे रोक लगाएं। The Assisted Reproductive Technology Bill aims to regulate ART banks and clinics, allow safe and ethical practice of ARTs, and protect women and children from exploitation. The Bill was introduced to supplement the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, which awaits consideration by the Rajya Sabha after review by two parliamentary committees. मैडम, भारत के विधि आयोग की 228 वीं रिपोर्ट में भी इस चेतावनी के साथ कॉमर्शियल सरोगेसी पर रोक लगाने की सिफारिश की गई थी कि सामाजिक उद्देश्यों और उद्देश्यों के उचित मूल्यांकन के बिना, अस्पष्ट नैतिक आधार पर निषेध जो सरोगेसी की सेवा कर सकता है, तर्कहीन होगा। यह बिल ऐसी अनुमति देता है, जिसमें केवल करीबी रिश्तेदार ही सरोगेट मदर हो सकती है। इसे डिफाइन किए बिना ही करीबी रिश्तेदार कौन हो सकता है, वह वास्तव में कठिन होगा। आज भी हम हिन्दुस्तान में जैसे परिवारों में रहते हैं, I belong to a joint family. हिन्दुस्तान में आज भी ज्वाइंट फैमिलीज हैं और पूरा परिवार एक साथ रहता है, वहां पर हम उम्मीद करें कि हमारे ही परिवार का कोई सदस्य सरोगेसी के लिए राजी हो और वह आगे आए । Through this Bill, we are going to give more benefits to the people who want to be parents. सरोगेट वह हो सकता है,जो पांच साल तक विवाहित हो,जिसकी आयु 25से 35 वर्ष के बीच हो और उसका अपना एक बच्चा हो। यह सरोगेट मदर की शारीरिक स्वायत्तता और पसंद पर राज्यों द्वारा एक मोरल इम्पोजिशन है,क्योंकि मानदंड अविवाहित महिलाओं को सरोगेट के रूप में कार्य करने की अनुमति नहीं देता है। मैडम, बिल में ऐसे कपल्स को शामिल नहीं किया गया है, जैसे इंटरफेथ और इंटरकास्ट जोड़े हैं। नॉर्मली हिन्दुस्तान में इंटरफेथ और इंटरकास्ट जोड़े होते हैं,जहां पर ऐसी शादियां होती हैं, वहां इनको अपने फेथ या अपनी कास्ट से अलग कर दिया जाता है और इनको त्याग दिया जाता है तो इनको कहां से करीबी रिश्तेदार मिलेंगे? अगर ये मां-बाप बनना चाहें तो उनके परिवार के लोग ही उनके साथ नहीं हैं तो ये कहां से सरोगेसी के लिए किसी मां को चुनेंगे या कोई लेडी उनके परिवार से आगे आएगी, जो इनको सरोगेसी में मदद करे? There is a valid point to think on this. Through you, Madam, I would request the hon. Minister to look into this matter very gravely. इस प्रस्तावित कानून के अनुसार केवल हेटेरोसेक्सुअल कपल्स कम से कम पांच साल से विवाहित, जिन्हें चिकित्सकीय रूप से इनफर्टाइल के रूप में प्रमाणित किया गया है, सरोगेसी का विकल्प चुन सकते हैं। इसमें अनमैरिड कपल्स, हेटेरोसक्सुअल्स,सिंगल, तलाकशुदा या फिर जो विडो औरतें हैं, उनको किसी तरह की सुविधा नहीं दी गई है और उनको इसमें किसी तरह से शामिल नहीं किया गया है। More importantly, the Bill discriminates against LGBTQ individuals who do not have the legal right to marry in India even after progressive judgments by the hon. Supreme Court in NALSA vs. Union of India , 2014, and Navtej Singh Johar vs. Union of India , 2019. In Devika Biswas vs. Union of India (2016) 10 SCC 726, the hon. Supreme Court recognised the right to reproduction as an important component of right to life under Article 21. Thus, restricting A.R.T. and surrogacy only to heterosexual relationships would be a violation of Article 21. … (Interruptions) This is a clear violation of Article 21. These restrictions also agitate against the concept of right to equality under Article 14 of our Constitution. इसमें दो-दो आर्टिकल्स को ये स्ट्रेट डिफाई कर रहे हैं और उनको ऑनर नहीं कर रहे हैं। माननीय मंत्री जी, आप जवाब देते वक्त इसमें थोड़ी सी क्लैरिटी रखिए और हमें ज्ञान दें तो I will be obliged. अगर ये इन आर्टिकल्स को वायलेट करते हैं, वे राजी होते हैं, So, I urge upon him to kindly reconsider this Bill. I do not think, we should come with a haste, so much of hurriedness, कोई गलत चीज़ ले आएं, जिससे हम सबको, पूरे देश को असुविधाओं का सामना करना पड़े। इसके अतिरिक्त बिल कॉमर्शियल सरोगेसी पर प्रतिबंध लगाकर एक महिला की अपनी पसंद की आजिविका की प्रैक्टिस करने का अधिकार छीनता है। कॉमर्शियल सरोगेसी को विनियमित और मॉनिटर करने के लिए सही उपायों के साथ कॉमर्शियल सरोगेसी पर प्रतिबंध लगाने की कोई आवश्यकता नहीं है, जो वंचित महिलाओं के लिए आय का एक स्रोत है। सर, मैं आपको बता दूं कि और आप मेरी बात पर न हंसे, क्योंकि आप माननीय मंत्री जी हैं तथा मैं चाहता हूं कि एक महिला को केवल शोषण के शिकार के रूप में देखा जाना गलत होगा, न कि एक समान अधिकार रखने वाले नागरिक के रूप में। आप इस बिल से उसे सरोगेट मदर के रूप में काम करने के अधिकार से वंचित कर रहे हैं। मैडम, मैं आपके माध्यम से यह भी कहना चाहूंगा, जो मुझसे पहले सुप्रिया जी ने भी कहा है। The Bill prohibits and penalises abandonment or rejection of the surrogate by the couple post-birth. This Bill defines ‘abandoned child’ by defining grounds of abandonment as ‘physical mental defect or infirmity, or being more than one in number’ excluding ‘sex of the child’. मैडम, हम सेक्स ऑफ चाइल्ड पहले से भी जान जाएंगे। In this aspect, the Bill does not address the plight of such surrogate child found non-genetically connected with either of the parents post-birth due to mishaps arising out of switching or swapping of the donated frozen gametes of couples in clinics or labs or in sperm banks. The Bill is unclear if such a surrogate child is allowed to be abandoned or rejected or left in adoption home or orphanage. The Bill needs to address these issues very clearly. मैडम, इसमें और एक बात भी है, जो डॉक्टर्स दिन-रात मेहनत करते हैं, कोविड का समय था, कोई भी वक्‍त  हो, देश में ऐसी कोई भी स्थिति पैदा होती है, they are the frontline warriors. Madam, the penalty for taking life like in abortions, sex determination, cannot be same for giving life which the ART seeks to do. It can never be the same. दोनों बहुत अलग-अलग चीजें होती हैं। इस पर गौर फरमाया जाना चाहिए। मैडम, अंत में मैं यह कहना चाहूंगा कि जब भी हम बच्चों के बारे में बात करते हैं, तो मैं इसलिए इमोशनल हो जाता हूं, क्योंकि मुझे बच्चों से बहुत लगाव है, मैं बच्चों से बहुत प्यार करता हूं। मुझे ऊपर वाले से इतना आशीर्वाद मिला है कि मुझे बच्चों से बहुत प्यार मिलता है। हालांकि, मैं अभी तक पिता नहीं बन पाया हूं, कोई भी वजह हो, लेकिन मुझे बच्चों से लगाव है, इसलिए मैं कहना चाहूंगा किwe are talking about surrogacy. We are talking about giving birth to a child. उसको दुनिया में लाना चाहते हैं, लेकिन जैसे हमने एट द सेम टाइम एबन्‍डन की बात कही है, वैसे ही एक पति या पत्नी,वे मैरेड कप्पल हों, जैसा कि आपने कहा है कि जो पांच साल से शादीशुदा हों, जिन्हें बच्चा नहीं हो रहा है, तो वे बच्चा कर सकते हैं, 25 साल से 35 साल की महिला सरोगेट मदर हो सकती है। जब एक कप्पल शादी के बाद एक दूसरे से डिवोर्स लेना चाहते हैं या अलग होना चाहते हैं, उस वक्‍त बच्चे के बारे में ज्यादा कोई नहीं सोचता है। वहां पर बच्चा पैरेंटल एलिनेशन का शिकार होता है। यह अलग-अलग डिपार्टमेंट डील करता है। हमारा संविधान हमें बहुत सारी सुविधाएं देता है, बहुत राइट्स देता है, लेकिन डीपली कनेक्टेड, जैसे यह एक वेब की तरह होता है, एक चीज दूसरे से कनेक्टेड होती है, दूसरा तीसरे से कनेक्टेड होता है, तीसरा चौथे से कनेक्ट होता है और चौथा सातवें से कनेक्टेड होता होगा। ये सारी चीजें कनेक्टेड होती हैं। हमें पैरेंटल एलिनेशन पर भी नजर रखनी चाहिए। इसमें लॉ मिनिस्ट्री की भूमिका है,वुमेन एंड चाइल्ड मिनिस्ट्री की भी भूमिका है। मैडम, मैं आपके माध्यम से यह अनुरोध करना चाहूंगा कि there has to be a separate Ministry, especially for children. जो चाइल्ड डेवलपमेंट मिनिस्ट्री के नाम से जाना जाए, जो स्पेशली बच्चों के स्वास्थ्य एवं उत्तम भविष्य के लिए फोकस्ड हो। मैं इससे पहले भी सदन में कह चुका हूं कि हिन्दुस्तान में हर साल 80,000 से लेकर 1,32,000 बच्चे पैरेंटल एलिनेशन का शिकार होते हैं और वे अपनी जिंदगी में ज्यादातर गलत रास्ते को चुनते हैं। वे ड्रग एडिक्शन की ओर जाते हैं, वे टेररिस्ट अटैक में शामिल होते हैं या क्रिमिनल ऐक्टिविटीज में शामिल होते हैं। उन्हें रिलेशनशिप में भरोसा नहीं रहता है। Madam, please give me one minute. I will conclude. उनको किसी रिश्ते पर भरोसा नहीं रहता है। आज की तारीख में पूरे भारत में ऐसे बच्चों की संख्या डेढ़ करोड़ से ज्यादा है। यह हमारे देश के लिए साइलेंट एपीडेमिक है। हम उनको कैसे बचाएं, बच्चों को कैसे परिवार के साथ जोड़ कर रखें। आप सरोगेसी के लिए कह रहे हैं। मैं इसका समर्थन कर रहा हूं या विरोध कर रहा हूं, उससे ज्यादा कहूंगा कि कृपया इसको इतनी जल्दबाजी में न लाएं। इसमें और कुछ चीजें हैं, जिन पर आपको गौर फरमाना चाहिए। सेलेक्ट कमेटी की रिपोर्ट के अनुसार आपको जो-जो चीजें बोली गई हैं, वे पूरी तरह से इसमें ऑनर नहीं हुई हैं।So, I would request you to kindly reconsider this, take a little more time, rethink, and bring some more amendments. Then, if it really helps the children of our nation, we can again have a discussion in this House and unanimously pass it. Thank you so much. मैडम, आपने मुझे इस बिल पर बोलने का मौका दिया है,इसके लिए मैं अपनी पार्टी, बीजू जनता दल की तरफ से, नवीन सर की तरफ से आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। PROF. RITA BAHUGUNA JOSHI ( ALLAHABAD ): Madam, I stand here in support of the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. I have been very closely listening to all the hon. Members, who have spoken on the Bill and let me confess that I was really overwhelmed by the speeches that have come in. I would rather confess that I am not a medico, and my degree as a Doctor comes from a PhD in humanities. सारे तकनीकी विषय आ चुके हैं, उन पर बात करने की बजाए मैं मानवीय पक्ष के रूप में अपनी बात को यहाँ पर प्रस्तुत करूँगी। हम एक वेलफेयर स्टेट हैं, एक कल्याणकारी राज्य हैं। हमारा संविधान हमें बराबरी के अधिकार के साथ ही बहुत-से अधिकार प्रदान करता है। हम एक पेट्रिआर्कल सोसायटी भी हैं, यानि कि हम एक पुरुष प्रधान समाज में रहते हैं। सभी एशियाटिक कंट्रीज ऐसी ही हैं, हम भी वही हैं। आप सोचिए कि ऐसी व्यवस्था है, जिसमें एक महिला परिवार को बेटा नहीं दे पाती है, तो उसे कितनी हीन दृष्टि से देखा जाता है,उसे अभागिन माना जाता है,उसे कोसा जाता है। अगर वह संतान ही न दे पाए, तो महिला की ही गलती मानकर जिस प्रकार से उसे परिवार में वेदना सहनी पड़ती है,हम लोग उसके प्रत्यक्ष गवाह हैं क्योंकि हम लोग समाज में घूमते हैं। 21वीं सदी है। समय बदल रहा है। यह सत्य है। कई नई-नई तकनीकें आ रही हैं, जिससे बांझपन को समाप्त किया जा सकता है। अब तो यह तथ्य भी सामने आ गया है कि बांझपन या संतान न होने का कारण केवल महिला में ही कमी नहीं, बल्कि कहीं-न-कहीं पुरुष में भी कमी हो सकती है। इन सभी बातों के अंतर्गत दुनिया भर के वैज्ञानिकों ने नई-नई समस्याओं को देखते हुए जो आविष्कार किए,उनमें एक आविष्कार यह भी था, जिसे सबसे पहले टेस्ट ट्यूब बेबी के नाम से जाना गया। तब मैं भी बहुत यंग थी, मुझे लगता था कि यह कैसे हो सकता है? जो रूढ़िवादी लोग थे, वे कहते थे कि हम प्रकृति के खिलाफ जा रहे हैं, जो प्राकृतिक रूप से व्यवस्था है,हम उसके खिलाफ जा रहे हैं। लेकिन धीरे-धीरे यह यथार्थ बन गया। यह इस तरह से यथार्थ बना कि पहले पढ़े-लिखे लोगों ने और बाद में सामान्य लोगों ने इसे ग्रहण करना शुरू कर दिया। आज चाहे आप आईवीएफ कहिए या उसे किसी और नाम से बुलाइए, आजआईवीएफ और सरोगेसी के माध्यम से संतान प्राप्ति हकीकत बन गई है। अब यह व्यवस्था एक प्रचलन बन चुकी है। जब एक व्यवस्था को लोग स्वीकार करने लगते हैं, तो उसके लिए होड़ लगती है, उसकी तरफ लोग भागते हैं। जब लोग भागते हैं, तो हम और आप चाहें या न चाहें, उसका व्यावसायीकरण होता है। इस व्यावसायीकरण में शोषण होता है। जब शोषण होता है, तो सरकार को ऐसी व्यवस्था लानी पड़ती है,जो पारदर्शी व्यवस्था हो,शोषण मुक्त व्यवस्था हो,लेकिन वह लोगों तक सुविधा को पहुंचने में विघ्न न पैदा करे। इसी पक्ष को एड्रेस करने के लिए, इसके समाधान के लिए यह बिल लाया गया है। मैं तकनीकी बातों पर नहीं जाती हूँ। सभी ने उन बातों के बारे में कहा है। पर आप खुद सोचिए, पहले डॉ. गावित ने, डा. बोस और फिर डॉ. सत्यवती ने इसके जितने भी मेडिकल पहलू हैं, उनको हमारे सामने रख दिया है। एक बात तो सत्य है कि विषय बहुत ही जटिल है। इसलिए इस जटिल व्यवस्था में,इस प्रक्रिया में, केवल विशेषज्ञों को ही हैंडल करना चाहिए, उसमें हस्तक्षेप करना चाहिए। लेकिन आज क्या हो रहा है? जिस तरह से आज गांव-गांव में झोलाछाप डॉक्टर्स हैं,आज आप किसी भी गली-मोहल्ले में जाइए तो आपको आईवीएफ सेन्टर मिल जाएगा। वह सेन्टर चाहे एक छोटे-से कमरे से चल रहा हो, चाहे किसी बड़े क्लीनिक में हो या किसी अच्छे हॉस्पिटल में हो, लेकिन अब यह एक व्यवसाय जैसा बन गया है। इसमें बिचौलिए आ गए हैं। शोषण होता है। इसका इलाज इतना महंगा है कि कोई भी तीस-चालीस लाख रुपए मांग लेता है। हमारे एक साथी ने कहा कि इसका व्यावसायीकरण मत बन्द कीजिए,लेकिन मैं पूछना चाहती हूँ कि इस व्यावसायीकरण में लाभ किसको मिलता है? क्या उस महिला को लाभ मिलता है,जो अपने शरीर को, अपनी जान को खतरे में डालती है या उस बिचौलिये को,जो उसे लेकर आता है या वह, जो अपनी गरीबी से, अपने परिवार के दबाव में आकर सरोगेट होने के लिए राजी हो जाती है। इन सारी बातों में, हम चाहते हैं कि ये दोनों व्यवस्थाएं रहें। चूंकि ये लिंक्ड (जुड़ी) हैं, हम लोग जानते हैं कि अस्सिटेड रिप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी और सरोगेसी दोनों लिंक्ड हैंI इसी वजह से आईसीएमआर ने वर्ष 2005 में इस पर चर्चा शुरू की कि इस टेक्नोलॉजी के जितने भी क्लीनिक्स और बैंक्स हैं, उनको रेगुलेट करने की आवश्यकता पर जोर दिया । इसके लिए वर्ष 2008 में पहला ड्राफ्ट लाया गया, लेकिन फिर लॉ कमीशन ने कहा कि इसे और `स्ट्रिंजेंट` (सख्त) बनानेहोने की आवश्यकता है, इसे और `स्ट्रांग` कीजिए, इसे`स्ट्रेन्देन` (मजबूत) कीजिए। वर्ष 2014में बिल आया,फिर वर्ष 2019 में भी बिल आया, दोनों बिल्स आए, फिर वे राज्य सभा में जाने के बाद सेलेक्ट कमेटी को भेज दिये गये। स्टैंडिंग कमेटी ने इस पर अपनी `ओपिनियन`(मत) दी । अब यह बिल आया है,तो इस बिल को कब तक टालेंगे? देखिए, 12-14 साल हो चुके हैं। आप इस बिल को दो पक्षों से देखिए। एक पक्ष कानून का है और दूसरा पक्ष नियम का है। आप कानून तो बनाइए, नियम बनते रहेंगे। नियम बनाने में सरकार को जो भी सुझाव हम और आप दें, उन सुझावों को ग्रहण कर के, जो भी संभव है, उसको लागू करने की आवश्यकता है,उसको लागू करना चाहिए। सभापति महोदया, आप इस व्यवस्था के बारे में खुद सोचिए। एक विवाहित कपल डॉक्टर के पास जाता है, जिसके पास संतान नहीं है। तीन करोड़ से ज्यादा विवाहित कपल्स आज प्रतीक्षा कर रहे हैं कि उनको बच्चा हो । जब वे जाते हैं, तो उनका टेस्ट होता है, उनका सैंपल लिया जाता है, फिर उसको स्टोर किया जाता है,इसके बाद उसका इन-विट्रो फर्टिलाइज़ेशन होता है, फिर सरोगेसी होती है या महिला स्वयं ही आईवीएफ के माध्यम से गर्भवती बनती है। इतनी जटिल व्यवस्था में यदि आप कोई नियम नहीं बनाएंगे, तो मैं आपसे कह रही हूं, जो मेरा अनुभव है, इसका दुरुपयोग लगातार होता चला जाएगा। किसी सदस्य ने बच्चों के सेक्स डिटरमिनेशन के बारे में कहातो कुछ ने कहा कि आप ऐसा क्यों कर रहे हैं कि सिंगल पैरेंट नहीं बन सकते? इस कानून में लड़कियों-महिलाओं को आईवीएफ का अधिकार दिया जा रहा है। जो उम्र की लिमिटेशन है,उसके बारे में आप भी जानते हैं । जो गेमिट होती है, उसकी जो क्वालिटी है, वह किस उम्र में कैसी रहती है। पुरुष का 55 वर्ष तक तो महिलाओं का 35 वर्ष तक गेमिट स्ट्रांग होता है। बच्चा सरोगेट से होना है या आईवीएफ से होना है, वह बच्चा कैसा होगा, उसके लिए बहुत महत्वपूर्ण है कि हम `साइंटिफिकली` वैज्ञानिक तरीके से आगे बढ़ें। यह बहुत आवश्यक होता है, इसीलिए हर पल, हर कदम सतर्क रहने की आवश्यकता होती है। जहां तक अन्य विषय हैं, जिनके बारे में माननीय सदस्यों ने कहा कि यह टेक्नोलॉजी बहुत कम लोगों को आती है। हमें यह चिंता क्यों है कि क्लिनिक्स कम हो जाएंगे? हमें चिंता क्यों है कि बैंक्स कम हो जाएंगे? हमें ये चिंताएं नहीं होनी चाहिए, सिर्फ इतनी चिंता होनी चाहिए कि यह प्रोसेस सरलता से एक्सपर्ट्स के हाथ में हो और अधिक खर्चीला भी न हो। मैं गवर्नमेंट से ज़रूर रिक्वेस्ट करूंगी, उन्हें चाहिए कि वे देखें कि कैसे इस पूरे सिस्टम को, इस व्यवस्था को आम आदमी तक पहुंचाया जा सकता है, गरीब तक पहुंचाया जा सकता है, जो इसके खर्च को बर्दाशत नहीं कर सकता। जहां तक सजा की बात है, हम सब जानते हैं कि अगर कोई (सख्त) कार्रवाई नहीं होती है, तो कोई सुनता भी नहीं है। आप देखिए कि हमारे राइट्स होते हैं, अव्यवस्थाएं होती हैं, परंतु जब वह नियम से बंधते हैं, तब ही सक्सेसफुल होते हैं । अत: `स्ट्रिन्जेंट मेजर्स` नैसिसरी हैं,क्योंकि इन्हीं के माध्यम से हम इसको स्ट्रीमलाइन करने की स्थिति में आ सकते हैं। इसके अलावा, जो भी बच्चा पैदा होता है, उस बच्चे को `अडॉप्ट` करना  (गोद लेना) पैरेंट्स की जिम्मेदारी हो जाती है। जो कमीशनिंग पैरेंट्स हैं,उन्हें उस बच्चे को लेना ही लेना है। वह बच्चा किन हालातों में,कहां पर पैदा हुआ, हम सरोगेसी की बात कर रहे हैं, वह भी जानना बहुत कठिन हो जाता है। इसलिए, आईवीएफ हेतु रजिस्ट्रेशनकी व्यवस्था की गई है । रजिस्ट्रेशनहेतु स्टेट लेवल सपोर्ट की भी व्यवस्था है । यह बात भी आ रही है कि बोर्ड्स बनेंगे और वह क्या करेंगे?बोर्ड्स के लिए तो बिलकुल`क्लियर मैनडेट` है कि वे व्यवस्था की स्टडी करेंगे, और सलाह देंगे। वे देखेंगे किसही तरह से उसकी मॉनिटरिंग हो रही है या नहीं हो रही है । नियमों काठीक से इंप्लिमेंट हो रहा है या नहीं हो रहा है । बोर्ड में कौन लोग होने चाहिए, इस पर बहुत लोगों ने सलाह दी है। मैं भी इस बारे में कहूंगी कि जो लोग इस विषय को समझते हैं,उनका बोर्ड में होना बहुत आवश्यक है। विशेषज्ञ चिकित्सकों को बोर्ड में होना चाहिए, क्योंकि वे ही समझ पाएंगे कि कैसे, क्या करना है। आप इन-टोटैलिटी देखिए, यह जो पूरा बिल आया है, यह पारदर्शिता को लाते हुए, शोषणवादी व्यवस्था को समाप्त करते हुए, एक कुशल और बहुत ही स्पेशिलाइज़्ड माध्यम से लोगों को संतान देने के लिए है। सभापति महोदया, इसीलिए मैं इस बिल के पक्ष में खड़ी हूं और मैं चाहती हूं कि सदन इस बिल को पास करे और हमने जो सुझाव दिए हैं,उन सुझावों को नियमों के अंदर लाकर सरकार उनका प्रावधान करे। मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ आपका आभार व्यक्त करती हूं कि आपने मुझे बोलने का अवसर दिया। धन्यवाद। … (Interruptions) …* 

 

SHRI HASNAIN MASOODI ( ANANTNAG ): Madam, let me at the outset congratulate the hon. Minister for bringing this comprehensive legislation. It is a good attempt to fill up a legislative vacuum and a good attempt at providing a legislation for a subject that is important which required a legislation. The urge to have a child is there maybe for religious or psychological reasons because there is a belief that one survives through a child. So, in that background, people who are not blessed with a child are prone to exploitation or vulnerable to exploitation. They have been exploited in the absence of a valid law to regulate assisted reproductive technology. It is a right law. It is a right step in the right direction. My friends have pointed out some lacunae which need to be addressed by the hon. Minister. The first and the foremost difficulty is the technical difficulty. This Bill depends on the Surrogacy Act and that law is yet to mature into an Act. We know that there are different stages in a legislation. That is still a Bill. As was pointed out, clause 3 says that the National Board to be constituted would be the same as that of the clause 5 of the Surrogacy Bill. But that Act is not in existence. That is yet to come. So, this may create some kind of technical difficulties in the days to come. Secondly, as pointed out by learned Members, this is discriminatory in some respects. An effort is required to be made by the hon. Minister to give a re-look and remove those areas because it leaves out some segments of the society that should have been benefited by this legislation and should have been made eligible for the benefits of this legislation. But they have been left out. In that regard, there should be some re-look and the benefits under this legislation should be extended to those groups as well. Dr. Heena pointed out that the difficulty in extending the benefits of this legislation to a male more than 21 years of age is because there is a prohibition in adoption. But that does not sound convincing. Of course, there are reasons why they are left out. It is because the girl child should not be exposed to some kind of exploitation. That is why adoption was prohibited. But that can be dealt with by other means, by having some other regulations so that those problem areas can be covered. But the benefits cannot be denied. Otherwise, we would keep some segments of the society left out. The argument that is put forward to say that this benefit should be denied to a male, because the child may be a girl child, and when the adoption is prohibited how can the male have that child, does not hold good in the case of LGBTQ. Of course, the Bill makes a good effort as regards the prohibition on pre-implementation of genetic testing. But Section 25 of the Act keeps pre-implementation genetic testing an open-ended provision. You say in the provision, ‘such other purposes as may be prescribed.’ This makes it an open-ended provision and this gives a kind of scope for misuse of this provision. If you identify the disease for which the pre-implementation genetic testing can be done, you better identify it with certainty than to keep it open ended. The Act has some important provisions and takes care of some important aspects of the matter. The first one is about transfer of human gametes and embryos to any country outside. Section 30 takes cares of it. Again, Section 31 is very important. Section 31 (1) says, `the child born through assisted reproductive technology shall be deemed to be a biological child of the commissioning couple and the said child shall be entitled to all the rights.’ Section 31(2) says, `a donor shall relinquish all parental rights over the child or children which may be born from his or her gamete.’ This used to be a question of dispute between the natural child, the donor, and the child or the commissioning couple. These areas are covered. Lastly, I would like to talk about the pricing aspect. Madam, your speech has made us realize the advantage of having an expert in the House. To be very honest, we do not know many things. I do not know particularly the money aspects of the problem which were highlighted by you. You made us understand that. It is the job of an expert and I wish that you are made the first chief of the national Board that is contemplated under the Act, so that you can give disha and direction to this new legislation. But one thing is very important. Madam, we were told only by you that there are 60 million people who are in the queue, who are not blessed with a child and who will depend on this assisted reproductive technology. They will be indirectly benefited by this Act and will be saved from the exploitation which is so common in this field. But this Act should also take care of the cost of this  assisted reproductive technology. Unless and until it is done, it will be a luxury, it will be restricted to a creamy layer. It will be restricted to only 60 million people. But what about the people who cannot afford it? So, the Bill should also take care of the cost or regulate the cost. What about the BPL families or the families which are not blessed with a child and which will depend on this technology but cannot afford it because they do not have the sufficient resources? So, I would request the hon. Minister to give a thought to this aspect as well, so that the benefits under the Act become available to that segment of the society as well. With these words, I conclude my speech. ADV. A.M. ARIFF ( ALAPPUZHA ):  Madam, before entering into the discussion, I would like to submit to the hon. Speaker Madam that you should consider the point of order raised by the senior Member. The clarification given by the hon. Minister has not sufficient relation with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. Madam, please consider the point of order raised by Shri N.K. Premachandran. Even though I support the intention of the Bill, I would like to submit some suggestions and criticisms which have come from the various corners of the society and also been published in the medical journals. I think the hon. Minister will consider all the suggestions and the criticism in this regard at the time of clause by clause consideration. All other Members who spoke earlier pointed it out that the Bill excludes same sex couples and the live-in couples from accessing ARTs. The Bill missed an opportunity to recommend that reproductive rights, which are internationally and constitutionally recognized as universal, be extended to live-in couples and same sex couples. It is noteworthy that the eligibility for access to surrogacy under the SRB, 2019 includes a medically necessitated condition, but the ART Bill, 2020 restricts it only to infertility. It has failed to fully address the right of donors, especially egg donors. This is despite the fact that hormonal treatment is necessary for an egg donor, and the procedure for extraction of eggs is invasive and can potentially be life-threatening too. The Bill recommends insurance coverage for the donor for 12 months and also social security insurance, the parameters of which are not clear. It also recommends the payment of maternity benefits to an egg donor who suffers from miscarriage. This is perplexing as a gamete donor is not carrying a pregnancy. So, the question of a miscarriage does not quite arise. There is no provision for donor compensation or even the reimbursement of expenses for loss of salary, time, and effort. The labour involved in producing and sharing biomaterial for the benefit of third parties is not recognised. Any compensation is available only when there is an untoward medical incident by way of a miscarriage. This is justified in keeping with the altruistic nature of the ART Bill, 2020. The crucial definitions in both Bills remain unsynchronised. For example, the SRB, 2019 does not define ART, ART clinics or ART banks. The ART Bill, 2020 defines these terms. Then, there are terms defined in the SRB, 2019, but not in the ART Bill, for example, fertilisation, implantation, foetus, and sex selection. The definition of infertility differs between the two Bills. Given the overlap between surrogacy and ART procedures, precision in and consistency between the two Bills, when it comes to medical terms, are critical. Several stakeholders have criticised the ART Bill, 2020 for prescribing long prison sentences with punishment being disproportionately high in relation to the offence committed. Differential treatment of defendants who have committed the same offences under both Bills will constitute arbitrary executive action, which is unconstitutional. The Bill has omitted intervening on significant issues with constitutional ramifications such as access to ARTs and compensation for the egg donor. As some of my previous speakers pointed out, permitting medical tourism and access for foreigners changes the economics of the ART market. In the absence of pricing regulation for ART clinics and banks, these organizations will continue to grow unbridled such that only the wealthiest can access ARTs excluding millions from the non-elite socio-economic groups who aspire to form families. Meanwhile, women who provision reproductive materials and labour will continue to be devalued, uncompensated, and unprotected as underground markets for egg donors and surrogacy would thrive. Also missing entirely in the ART Bill, 2020 is any mention of the rights of the child born out of ARTs to know their parentage, which is crucial to their best interests, and is increasingly accepted as a norm globally and was protected under previous drafts of the ART Bill. Thank you, Madam. SHRI N. K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson. Madam, I rise to support this Bill subject to the reservation that I have made at the time of raising my Point of Order regarding the procedural irregularity in considering this Bill at this juncture because the Surrogacy Bill is pending before the other House. It has not yet been passed and assented to by the President. Since it has not become an Act of Parliament, referring to provisions of that particular Bill, which has to be passed by Parliament, is not a good legislation. It is a bad legislative practice. I hope that the hon. Speaker may give a Ruling on this issue. Subject to the reservation of that Ruling, I am making some of the points on this Bill. I would like to know only one point from the hon. Minister. Suppose, the other House, in its own wisdom, is not passing the Bill - it depends on them; it is not mandatory that the Bill should be passed by the other House - what would be the fate of this Bill? The hon. Minister has to explain this  because the legislative wisdom of Lok Sabha cannot be taken for granted. This is in the legislative domain. You cannot take it for granted that the other House would pass the Bill and the hon. President, will give assent to the Bill. Suppose the President is not giving assent to the Bill, suppose the President is returning the Bill, what would be the fate of this Bill? So, please don’t take Parliament, please don’t take Lok Sabha for granted. We are having the right in our own legal or legislative domain; we are having the legislative supremacy in passing the Bill and the same should be respected. So, first of all, I make my reservation with the hope the ruling may come from the hon. Speaker. Madam, I support the Bill in many senses. Madam, your speech was well heard by the House and the same was appreciated.  The medical perspective of the Bill and the ethical and other issues have already been covered by most of the learned speakers. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill is to provide for the regulation of ART services in the country. I support the Bill. There are many defects and concerns in the Bill.  Still, I am supporting the Bill because something is better than nothing. Now a days, there is nothing to regulate the ART services; its growth is mushrooming in the country. According to the research study conducted by an institution on medical technology based in Bengaluru, – it has now available in the public domain - ten to 15 per cent of the married couples in India are facing infertility. That means, 27.5 million of married couples in India are facing infertility. This means that it is one of the lucrative businesses by which money or business can be made by exploiting these poor people or these married couples, who do not have a child. So, definitely, regulation is highly required. Since there is no regulatory mechanism to supervise and monitor these ART services, definitely, it is the need of the hour. I support the Bill with certain reservations and objections. The second point is regarding the definition of assisted reproductive technology services. The definition includes all techniques that seek to obtain a pregnancy by handling the sperm or oocyte outside the human body and transferring the gamete into the reproductive system of a woman. Madam, I have gone through the Standing Committee Report. There are detailed discussions about the definition of ART services but unfortunately none of the observations made by the Committee has been adopted by the Government in redefining the definition of ART services. It is quite unfortunate on the part of the Government. This definition has to be elaborated; this definition has to be further explained. This is my suggestion. During the last few decades, there is a growth of Art services, especially in India. We have gone through this Bill and have gone through many documents. It is very astonishing to see there that India is becoming one of the major centres of global fertility industry, and thereby, India is becoming a reproductive tourism centre. That means, it is becoming a lucrative business; that means definitely the commercialisation of ART services is going to happen. I do appreciate the Government and the hon. Minister for bringing this Bill. We have to have some mechanism to regulate ART services. The commercialisation of ART services has to be regulated and restricted because it is a humane service to be provided to the married couple, who do not have any issue or children. There were guidelines in our country but they are not sufficient to meet the purpose. The ART services involve medical, legal and social issues. To an extent, we are able to contain or address the legal issues. But as far as the social issues and ethical issues are concerned, I do not think the Bill is sufficient to meet the purpose. That should also be addressed. In the Standing Committee’s report, it is very clear but, unfortunately, nothing has come out. I did not hear the introductory speech of the hon. Minister. The Committee cautions the Government. The second para of the report, ‘The general observations and recommendations of the Standing Committee’ states: “The Committee however believes that the Government should make efforts to undertake a study to work on the cause of infertility instead of allowing the private sector to maximise the profit by marketing ART services. The Committee in this regard also recommends that the Government should enhance ART services in each medical college or district hospitals by opening infertility clinics so that the poor masses can avail the ART facilities. The Committee strongly decides that the ART facilities should not be confined to the ‘bourgeoise class’. It is the word that was used by the Standing Committee. This shall not be confined to the bourgeoise class, the capitalist or the rich people in the country. In this regard, the Committee cautions the Government not to allow commercialisation venture. At IVF centres, commercialisation of gamete donation must be prohibited in letter and spirit by effective implementation of the provisions of the proposed legislation ensuring that the ART services do not expand as money making business. This observation is very vital and the Government should definitely address this issue. Otherwise, it will create big concerns among the public at large. Most of the hon. Members have spoken regarding consent. I am not supporting the argument given by most of the learned Members about it not being allowed to the single male. I do not support it because there are many things a single male is not allowed to access in a country like India because our ethos, culture, and traditions are not permitting him to do it. Sometimes, section 377 is scrapped by the hon. Supreme Court and, sometimes, in future, it may allow it. But for the time being, what the Government has done is the best. I fully support it. I am not supporting the argument given by most of the learned Members regarding the first point. My second concern is about the violation of Article 14. In the case of Justice Puttaswamy vs. Union of India , the Supreme Court held the sanctity of marriage, the liberty of procreation, the choice of family life, and the dignity of all individuals irrespective of social status from the aspects of privacy. This is an act of privacy. Is the right to privacy being protected by this legislation? How can the Government ensure through this legislation this right to privacy? There are the chances or loopholes in the law by which the details can be leaked to some other sources that will be causing grave repercussions. That is my first concern. My third concern is regarding Article 23 of the Constitution. A woman receives no compensation or reimbursement of expenses for loss of salary, time, and effort, failing to pay for services and unpaid labour which are prohibited by Article 23 of the Constitution which is against exploitation. Another part is regarding the commissioning parties which only need to obtain an insurance policy. Is the amount of insurance fixed? Is the minimum ceiling limit fixed? Is the time also fixed? The fourth concern is the about absence of a qualified medical person in the State level regulation authority who may understand the nuances of infertility and IVF treatment. His absence would become problematic. I have given a notice of the amendment. If the hon. Minister can see me, I would request to him to accept that amendment. Let it be a woman medical professional, who is aware of these issues, in the State authority. The last point which I would like to make is that there is going to be multiplicity of legislation on this larger issue. There is the Surrogacy Bill, there is the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Bill, and then there is this ART (Regulation) Bill. Why three Bills? Why can we not have a comprehensive Bill covering all these three aspects? Multiplicity of laws on the same issue leads to confusion and is bad for implementation. The issues of surrogacy and ART services are closely related. I, therefore, urge upon the Government to come with a comprehensive Bill covering all these three aspects of surrogacy, medical termination of pregnancy, and the ART services. With these words, I conclude. Thank you. श्रीमती नवनित रवि राणा ( अमरावती ): सभापति महोदय, आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। Surrogacy helps infertile, childless couples to have children of their own. I totally support this. हमारे कई माननीय सदस्यों ने इस विषय पर बोला है। हमारी भारती मैडम है,जो इस डिपार्टमेंट की राज्यमंत्री है। बहुत सारे लोगों ने अलग-अलग तरीके से अपनी बातें रखी हैं। हमारी चेयरपर्सन ने भी इस विषय पर अपने बहुत सारे सजेशंस दिए हैं। हम लोग इस विषय से रिलेटेड नहीं हैं, डॉक्टर नहीं हैं। अभी हम जो कुछ बोल रहे हैं या सजेशन लाए हैं,वे हम बहुत सारे एक्स्पर्ट्स व डॉक्टर्स से बात करके लाए हैं। जिस क्षेत्र से मैं बिलॉन्ग करती हूँ, वहाँ के ऐसे पेशन्ट्स से संपर्क करके ही मैं यहाँ पर बता रही हूँ। Sir, this Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019 was introduced by the Minister of Health and Family Welfare in Lok Sabha on 15th July, 2019. उसके बाद अभी यह विषय चर्चा में आया है। जिस प्रकार से बताया गया कि बहुत सालों से इस पर चर्चा हो रही है। यह विषय हर कमेटी में अलग-अलग चीजों पर चर्चा के लिए गया है और उसके बाद अभी यह विषय यहाँ आया है। हमारे पास कुछ चीजें हैं, जिनके बारे में मैं बोलना चाहूँगी। The Bill defines surrogacy as a practice where a woman gives birth to a child for an intending couple and hands over the child after the birth to the intending couple. The Bill in its present form adopts a need-based approach rather than a rights-based approach. The rights of the surrogated mother, of the unborn child, and of the person to parenthood must be given highest priority while formulating the regulation by striking a perfect balance. Now we have concern for three parties in this, Madam, the unborn child, the surrogated mother, and the intending couple. So, while passing the Bill, we have to take care of the rights of all these three parties. Commercial surrogacy is banned and at present; only relatives can be involved in surrogacy. We have to look at the practical issues in a male-dominated society.… (व्यवधान) सर,यह ठीक है कि आपने इसे करेक्ट किया। मैं आपको बताना चाहूँगी कि उसी समय से ही डिस्कशन हो रहा है। … (व्यवधान) This is what is happening. माननीय सभापति : मैडम, आप चेयर की तरफ एड्रेस कीजिए। … ( व्यवधान) श्रीमती नवनित रवि राणा : मैडम, तब से हम लोक सभा में सुन रहे हैं। Shri Premachandran has also asked the Minister how this Bill came to Lok Sabha when it is not passed in Rajya Sabha. We all have discussed about this and the Minister is also sitting in the House. This is the confusion that is happening here. Madam, I will just keep my suggestions before the House. Very senior Members have also mentioned this in their speeches. I am sorry I do not know what is going on. माननीय सभापति : मैडम, आप बोलिए। … ( व्यवधान) श्रीमती नवनित रवि राणा : मैडम, तब क्या होगा? जब आपने बोला है कि रिलेटेड सेरोगेसी नहीं करनी चाहिए, उसमें एक चीज की बहुत समस्या होगी, क्योंकि जिस देश में हम रहते हैं, वहाँ थोड़ा-सा मेल डोमिनेटिंग है। अगर किसी फैमिली मेम्बर्स या ब्लड रिलेशन को हम फोर्स करते हैं कि आपको यह करना है, नहीं तो मैं नहीं रखूँगा। इसके साथ सेरोगेटेड बेबी नहीं करके दिया तो आपके यहाँ प्रॉब्लम आएंगी। मैडम,मैं मंत्री महोदय से रिक्वेस्ट करूँगी, इसमें आपने जो भी मेन्शन किया है, उसके लिए मेरा एक छोटा-सा सजेशन है। इस संबंध में मैंने एक्स्पर्ट से भी बात की है। Commercial surrogacy is banned. जिस तरीके से अभी एक ‘मिमी’ पिक्चर आई थी, वह एक कमर्शियल मूवी थी। उसमें दिखाया गया था, हमारे एक कुलिग ने मेंशन किया है कि बाहर के लोगों के लिए यह एक कमर्शियल देश बन चुका है। बाहर से कोई भी यहाँ आकर रूरल एरिया में जाता है, ट्राइबल एरिया में जाता है और they just borrow the womb of one woman. वह उस बेबी को लेकर चला जाता है। अगर उसको कुछ हो जाता है औरIf the baby is not perfectly okay, then they leave the surrogate mother in the lurch and move away without even informing her. यह उस पिक्चर में कमर्शियली दिखाई दिया है। उसको हमने बैन कर दिया है। परंतु, हमने फैमिली के ऊपर जो डाल दिया है, उस पर भी हमें ध्यान रखना पड़ेगा। 17.00 hrs 

उसमें भी कई चीजों पर नोटीफिकेशंस लानी पड़ेंगी। … (व्यवधान) मैडम, जो 60 मिलियन कपल्स हैं, जो अभी भी पैरेन्ट्स बनने के लिए इच्छुक हैं, ऐसी फैमिलीज़ के लिए, ऐसे कपल्स के लिए,हम लोगों को यह ध्यान रखना चाहिए कि जो रूरल एरियाज़ में हैं या ट्राइबल एरियाज़ में जो गरीब लोग रहते हैं, हमारे पास उनके बहुत सारे इश्यूज़ आते हैं। बड़े लोग बड़े शहरों में इसे कर पाते हैं, पर हम जिस क्षेत्र को बिलांग करते हैं, अमरावती,विदर्भ या महाराष्ट्र के ऐसे जो पिछड़े इलाके हैं,जहां पर कोई किसान है या मजदूर है या हाथ मजदूर है,ऐसी फैमिलीज़ के लिए अवेयरनेस लाना और सरकारी योजना लाना, जिसके माध्यम से वे अपने आपको पैरेंट्स बना सकें, इसके लिए ईजी और एक्सेज़ अमाउंट से हम उनकी क्या मदद कर सकते हैं, यह उन्हें पैरेंट्स बनाने के लिए बहुत महत्व रखता है। मैडम, मेरे कुछ सजेशंस थे और बहुत सारे इश्यूज़ भी इस बीच में आ गए। मैं बस इतने ही सजेशंस मंत्री जी को दूंगी। आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। SHRI P. RAVINDHRANATH ( THENI ): Thank you, hon. Chairperson, Madam, for giving me the opportunity to support this Bill.  I thank the hon. Health Minister for bringing this important Bill. I come from Tamil Nadu which has huge infrastructure and development potential in the medical sector.  It has the second-highest Artificial Reproductive Technology (ART) clinics in the country.  Also, it is a hub for medical tourism.  Hence, any legislation which will regulate these practices will increase medical tourism which will lead to an increase in revenue. I would like to point out that raising a family is an important aspect of life in Indians. India faces a lot of burdens in terms of infertility with at least 27 to 30 million reported cases of the same, and it is on the rise in India.  With this spirit, the Government has introduced this Bill that will regulate ART services in the country.  I would like to add that with this, couples will feel more confident and will view the ART methods as ethical. I would like to highlight that the Bill has a slew of advantages.  This Bill provides safe and ethical ART methods.  The doctors will be allowed to test, thus preventing any genetic disease.  Also, this Bill will establish regulatory boards at the State and national level. India is a world leader in ART methods.  The industry is currently expanding at a CAGR of 18 to 19 per cent and is expected to touch INR 25 billion.  I would like to highlight that only one per cent of the infertile couples come for treatment and this Bill will help in removing the stigma and will be of great help. It is important to note that currently 50 per cent of the IVF cycles are performed in India by unorganised clinics.  I would like to point out to the Chair that this increases risk, and this Bill will go a long way in minimising this.  Currently, no regulations are in place and the entry barriers are low.  Hence, this Bill is absolutely necessary to bring regulation and ensure that norms are met. I would like to highlight another angle which is economic.  India is a hub for medical tourism and hence this Bill will provide regulations.  This will offer numerous benefits such as economies of scale, promotion, branding and fair pricing, etc. combined with high quality of care and service.  It is a huge opportunity for the medical tourism sector and will pave the way for India to become a global leader. With this, I extend my heartiest congratulations to hon. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji for his guidance.  On behalf of my party, AIADMK, I support this Bill. Thank you, Madam. SHRI K. NAVASKANI ( RAMANATHAPURAM ): Thank you Madam.  I will not say a lot.  The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill is a much-awaited piece of legislation.  However, there are certain key areas of concern.  There are certain drawbacks in the Bill in its current form which need to be addressed.  I hope the Government will be able to answer the concerns that I have.  I will briefly raise them here.  Unless these areas are addressed, bringing such a key legislation with such massive drawbacks would have severe ramifications in the future.  I will ask few questions point-by-point, and the Minister can clarify if my concerns hold value or not. The first question on the ART Bill in the current form is the question of discrimination.  The Bill defines the ‘commissioning couples’ as infertile married couples in Clause 2(g).  This is highly discriminatory and violates the Right to Equality guaranteed under Article 14 of our Constitution and the Right to Life under Article 21. The ART Bill also does little to protect the egg donor.  Though there is a provision for insurance, there is no monetary compensation provision in the Bill for the loss of salary, time and effort.  There is no provision for the donor withdrawing her consent at any point after giving her consent, even though the same has been provided for the commissioning couples.  This too hurts the interest of the donor. The Bill still retains the very existing heritable life threatening or genetic diseases clause for the pre-implantation genetic testing, even though the other purposes as may be prescribed, has been dropped.  This is a vast definition and would be misused as a loophole. Thank you. SHRIMATI PRATIMA MONDAL ( JAYNAGAR ): Madam, I rise to speak on the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020.  I got an opportunity to hear an excellent debate, especially from you Madam, and all other hon. Members on this important Bill.  So, for me today is the first day of the Winter Session. I have a very small query and I would like to ask the hon. Minister to clarify the norm set for the eligibility to avail the facility of ART.  According to Clause 2(g) ‘commissioning couple’ means an infertile married couple, and Clause 2(a) states ‘woman’ meaning ‘any woman above the legal age of marriage’ is eligible to avail the ART route of reproduction.  This means that unmarried women have an option to become mothers.  So, it is a very welcome small step in the right direction.  But I would say that it is contradictory to the provision contained in the Surrogacy Bill passed by the Lok Sabha. The Surrogacy Bill allows only infertile couples to opt the method of surrogacy, which itself is a form of Assisted Reproductive Technology.  On the one hand, single women are allowed to bear child through IVF or ICSI but if the intending mother is infertile, she cannot consider surrogacy as an option.  So, what kind of law is this?  The provisions contained in one law are contradictory to the other though both are absolutely related.  So, I would like to request the hon. Minister to clarify the same. I would also like the hon. Minister to ensure that no discrimination is made in ART clinics against unmarried women seeking to be mothers through ART.  There must be a provision which specifically mentions that discrimination against the unmarried women is a punishable offence. Other Members have already spoken about the single men and the LGBTQ community wanting to be fathers.  This is absolutely unconstitutional as the right of individuals wanting to be parents is curbed. I would also request the Minister to kindly elaborate Clause 35(1) under Chapter 5 which states: माननीय स्पीकर सर अभी पीठासीन हुए हैं। हमारे ऊपर बार-बार यह इल्जाम लगता है कि विपक्ष सदन नहीं चलाना चाहते हैं, फलां-फलां,बहुत सारे इल्जाम लगाए जाते हैं। महोदय,आप ज़रा ट्रेजरी बेंच को देखिए। आप इनसे पूछिए कि इस सदन को चलाने में इन लोगों की कितनी दिलचस्पी है। यहां पर माननीय मांडविया जी को छोड़कर कितने मंत्री बैठे हुए हैं?...(व्यवधान) आप देखिए।…(व्यवधान) आप खुद गिनती कर लीजिए।…(व्यवधान)यहां पर कोई फ्रंट लाइन मंत्री नहीं बैठा है,सभी सेकेंड और थर्ड लाइन मंत्री बैठे हुए हैं।…(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : मंत्रिगण को यहां पर उपस्थित रहना चाहिए। … ( व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : माननीय सदस्यगण, इसमें पैरवी करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। … ( व्यवधान) श्री अधीर रंजन चौधरी : आप लोग सीरियस नहीं है, यह साफ पता चलता है।…(व्यवधान) हमारे हिन्दुस्तान में दो बातें कही जाती हैं, फर्टिलिटी और इनफर्टिलिटी। पूरी दुनिया में इनफर्टिलिटी में हमारा हिस्सा 25 से30 प्रतिशत है। फर्टिलिटी को सामने रखकर हमें यह समझाया जाता था कि जनसंख्या विस्फोट के चलते हिन्दुस्तान की तरक्की नहीं हो पा रही है, लेकिन अब पूरा नक्शा ही बदल गया है। नेशनल हेल्थ कमेटी की रिपोर्ट आ गई है, उसमें यह दर्शाया गया है कि अब हमारे यहां फर्टिलिटी दर रिप्लेसमेंट लेवल से भी कम है।…(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : इसमें सरकार क्या करेगी? … ( व्यवधान) श्री अधीर रंजन चौधरी : महोदय, मैं इसलिए कह रहा हूं, क्योंकि दशकों के प्रयासों के बाद इतनी बड़ी अचीवमेंट हुई है। अभी क्या जनविस्फोट का रवैया चलेगा या रुकेगा? जब आप देश के आर्थिक हालत को सुधार नहीं पाते हैं, तब आप यह दुहाई देते हैं कि जनसंख्या विस्फोट, जनसंख्या विस्फोट, जनसंख्या विस्फोट। तरह-तरह के प्रोवोकिंग स्टेटमेंट भी आते हैं कि यहां वो करो, वहां वो करो। हम जनसंख्या विस्फोट को तो संभाल चुके है। आज हिन्दुस्तान में यह हालत है कि हमारे यहां मेल से ज्यादा फीमेल की संख्या हो गई है। सेक्स रेशियो में 1,000 मेल और 1,020 फीमेल हैं। अब आप लोग क्या कहेंगे? मैं यह आप लोगों से पूछना चाहता हूं। माननीय मंत्री जी, शायद आप इस बिल को लाने से पहले, इसको तंदुरुस्त एवं सशक्त करने के लिए जो हमारी स्टेंडिंग कमेटी है, उसने काफी मशक्कत की है। शायद आपके समक्ष उसकी रिपोर्ट भी पेश की गई होगी। मैं उस रिपोर्ट को सामने रखते हुए यह जरूर कहना चाहूंगा कि यह बिल हमारे संविधान के आर्टिकल 14 का उल्लंघन कर रहा है। Only married couple unable to conceive due to infertility or other medical condition and women above the legal marriage age that is after 18 years can avail ART services. बहुत सारे सदस्यों ने यह बात कही है, लेकिन आपका ध्यान आकर्षित करने के लिए मैं इसको दोहराना चाहता हूं।Single males, unmarried live-in couples, same sex couples and transgender men and women are excluded from the purview of the Bill. I think this is discriminatory and violate the fundamental right to equality under Article 14. देखिए, स्टैंडिंग कमेटी की यह ऑब्ज़र्वेशन है - The Committee recommended that the confidentiality of the data should conform to the law as laid in the Judgement of Justice K.S. Puttaswamy Vs. Union of India , the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 and the National Digital Health Blueprint issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. यह मैं नहीं कहता हूं, मेंबर्स यहां पर कोई मनगढ़ंत बात नहीं कह रहे हैं। स्टैंडिंग कमेटी ने सभी चीजों को मद्देनज़र रखते हुए, काफी मशक्कत और विस्तार से चर्चा करने के बाद इस निष्कर्ष पर पहुंची है कि यह बिल माननीय सुप्रीम कोर्ट के जजमेट का उल्लंघन करता है। यह कहीं न कहीं संविधान के आर्टिकल का उल्लंघन करता है। मैंने अभी आर्टिकल 14 का जिक्र किया है। महोदय, मैं यहां पर एक और बात रखना चाहता हूं। The egg donor’s interests are subordinated in the Bill. The donor receives no compensation or reimbursement of expenses for loss of salary, time and effort. Failing to get pay for bodily services constitute free labour which is prohibited under Article 23 of the Constitution of India. यह मैं नहीं कह रहा हूँ। मैं ‘डॉ. सुधा चन्द्रशेखर, कंसल्टेंट,टाटा ट्रस्ट हेल्थ सिस्टम ट्रांसफॉर्मेशन प्लेटफार्म’ को कोट कर रहा हूँ। She also said that State level Registration Authority to be established to oversee ART practices as per the Bill must include an Obstetrician or Gynaecologist and not just an MBBS doctor. क्योंकि इन्फर्टिलिटी और आई.वी.एफ. में जो फर्क है, उसे हम जैसे लोग नहीं समझ सकते हैं। यहां पर जिन डॉक्टर्स ने चर्चा में भाग लिया था, उनसे हमने बहुत कुछ सीखा है। इसमें हमें लगता है कि यह बहुत जटिल प्रक्रिया है और यह चीज भी जटिल है। जब चीज जटिल होती है तो हमें सावधानी बरतना भी जरूरी होता है। इसलिए मैं समझता हूँ कि आप ज्यादा जल्दबाजी कर रहे हैं। आप जल्दबाजी इसलिए कर रहे हैं, क्योंकि इस लेजिसलेशन के आने से पहले एक और लजिसलेशन आया,एक लेजिसलेशन आने के बाद एक और लेजिसलेशन आ गया तो आप बिल्कुल प्रिमैच्योर लेजिसलेशन ला रहे हैं। As per the provisions of the proposed Bill, the National and State Boards established under the Surrogacy Act 2020 are to function as Boards to oversee ART. The Surrogacy Bill, 2019 has only been passed in the Lok Sabha and is not yet an Act of law. यह बहुत बड़ा मुद्दा है। आप जो मर्जी बोल देते हैं तो ऐसा नहीं होगा। यह सदन है और सदन की कार्यवाही में नियम-कानून का जो अलग तरीका है, उसे आपको मानते हुए, उनका पालन करते हुए चलना चाहिए। This betrays the haste on the part of the Government to proceed with a Bill when it is incumbent on another pending legislation. इस बिल में बड़ी अस्पष्टता दिखाई दे रही है और आप इस बिल को पास करके गलती कर रहे हैं, ऐसा हमें प्रतीत होता है। आसमान तो टूट नहीं पड़ेगा, जब आप इतने सालों से रुके हुए हैं और दो-दो स्टैंडिंग कमेटीज़ बनी हुई हैं। एक सेरोगेसी पर बनी हुई है और दूसरी ए.आर.टी. पर बनी हुई है तो आपको ध्यान से सारे विशेषज्ञों को लेकर एक कॉम्प्रिहेंसिव होलिस्टिक लेजिसलेशन बनाना चाहिए,जिसमें हम इस तरह के लूपहोल्स ना दर्शाएं। आपको देखना पड़ेगा कि इस तरह के लूपहोल्स प्रतीत ना हो पाएं। आप आई.सी.एम.आर. की गाइडलाइन को भी इग्नोर कर रहे हैं। The ICMR guidelines published in 2005 were more inclusive as live-in couples were eligible thereunder. The guidelines also included minimum standards such as for ART counselling, clinics, laboratories, personnel and procedure. However, these have been left to the proposed National Board to prescribe. इस बिल में इसका प्रावधान क्यों नहीं रहेगा? इसमें एक और चीज है, जिसे ध्यान से देखना चाहिए। The right of child to seek donor. बच्चे को मालूम होना चाहिए कि डोनर कौन है। जब बच्चों को होश आता है तो वे अपने माता-पिता को ढूँढ़ते हैं। यह दुनिया का धर्म है, लेकिन आप यह भी छीन रहे हैं। The ICMR guidelines provide that any child born through ART should have the right to seek information about the donor except the individual identity. If they apply for such information after attaining 18 years of age, आप क्या करोगे? 18 वर्ष के बाद वे वोटर बन जाते हैं। वोटर बन जाने से उन्हें पता नहीं लगेगा कि उनके माता-पिता कौन है। The Bill is silent on the right of the child to seek information on reaching adulthood. आप हमारे बच्चों के लिए बहुत बड़ी गलती कर रहे हैं, जो ए.आर.टी.के जरिए दुनिया में आने वाले हैं।It may be noted that while ART clinics and banks are not restricted from operating, the Government has pushed for a ban on commercial surrogacy as per the provisions of the Surrogacy Bill, 2019. Some women activists have suggested that commercial surrogacy be reframed as compensated surrogacy and have pushed for women’s right to be compensated for being a surrogate. सबसे बड़ी जिम्मेदारी लेती हैं हमारी महिलाएं। इस दुनिया में हम सदियों से यह तहजीब बनाकर देश चलाते हैं किthe worth of a woman is to be determined by the productivity of the womb, लेकिन हम नहीं मानते हैं कि एक महिला को सिर्फ एक वूम की हैसियत से माना जाए। उनकी बहुत सारी गुणवत्ता है,क्वालिटी है, पोटेंशियलिटी है, लेकिन किसी भी सूरत में महिलाओं को वंचित न होने देने का प्रावधान इस बिल में रखना चाहिए। दूसरी बात है – कम्प्लेंट मैकेनिज्म। Under the proposed legislation, an aggrieved party cannot directly approach the court.  Only the National Board or the State Board or any officer authorised by the State Board can approach the court.  This is problematic as it could interfere with the person’s right to justice. इसे आपको एड्रेस करना पड़ेगा। Coming to posthumous reproduction after the person dies, it refers to reproduction by using the gamete of a deceased person. The Standing Committee suggested that posthumous reproduction should be permitted even in the absence of prior consent of the deceased unless the deceased has previously objected to this. आप बैंक बनाते हैं, उस बैंक में किसी ने रखा है, वह मर भी सकता है,लेकिन उसके बाद क्या होगा? उससे सहमति न मिलने तक क्या आप वह सीमेन या गैमेट इस्तेमाल कर सकते हैं? यह एक बड़ा मुद्दा है, इस पर आप ध्यान दीजिए। सर,एक अन्य मुद्दा है – स्टैडर्डाइजेशन । इसके बारे में भी कमेटी ने जिक्र किया है। The Committee noted that the cost of ART services varies across clinics.  It recommended that Standard Operating Procedures should be formulated to ensure the uniform cost of ART services and global quality standards.  Further, a monitoring mechanism should be set up under the National Board to prohibit commercialisation of the ART services by private service providers. मैं जानता हूं कि आप कॉरपोरेट्स की कंसर्न्स ज्यादा समझते हैं,लेकिन फिर भी हमें यह देखना पड़ेगा कि कॉमर्शियलाइजेशन के चलते हमारे गरीब लोगों के ऊपर बुरा असर न पड़े। आप यह बात देखिए। हिन्दुस्तान में इनफर्टिलिटी के चलते हम लोग जो तरीके अपनाते हैं, जैसे आईवीएफ और अन्य बहुत सारे अलग-अलग तरीके हैं, उनमें लोगों को न्यूनतम कितना पैसा खर्च करना पड़ता है या एक व्यक्ति को इसमें न्यूनतम क्या खर्च करना जरूरी होता है?इसके लिए क्या सरकार की कोई सोच है कि कोई भी हो, हम अपनी किसी भी महिला के वूम को बैरेन नहीं रहने देंगे? जो महिला मां बनना चाहती है, उसको मां बनाने की जिम्मेदारी देश की है, राष्ट्र की है, इसलिए जिनको ऐसी तकलीफ है, उस तकलीफ से ऊपर उठाने के लिए और उनको मां बनाने के लिए गरीब लोगों को सुविधा देने के लिए आपकी क्या सोच है? The Committee also recommended that the Department of Health Research should clearly define the role of ART banks and the specialists required in them for the screening of gamete should be done by an ART clinic and the bank should be responsible for the collection, storage and supply of gamete. सर, दोनों बिल्स में जो फर्क है, उस मुद्दे को लेकर और अन्य दो-तीन बातें करके मैं अपनी बात खत्म करूंगा। Although the Bill and the SRB regulate ARTs and surrogacy respectively, there is a considerable overlap between both the sectors.  Yet the Bills do not work in tandem.  हम चाहते हैं कि दोनों बिल्स एक साथ काम करें। Core ART processes are left undefined.   Several of these are defined in the SRB but not in the Bill.  Definitions of commissioning couple, infertility, ART clinics and banks need to be synchronised between the Bills.  A single woman cannot commission surrogacy but can access ART. The Bill designates Surrogacy Boards under the SRB to function as advisory bodies for ART which is desirable. However, both will set up multiple bodies for registration which will result in duplication or worse lack of regulation. Surrogacy clinic is not required to report surrogacy to National Registry. Also, the same offending behaviours under both the Bills are punished differently and punishments under the SRB are greater. Offences under the Bill are bailable, but not under the SRB. Finally, records have to be maintained for ten years under the Bill, but for 25 years under the SRB. The same actions taken by a surrogacy clinic and ART clinic which are likely to be the same entity but may attract varied regulation. The Bill requires clinics and banks to maintain a grievance cell but these will be one-sided. Clinics must instead have ethics Committee. क्योंकि इसमें सोशल, एथिकल, रिलीजियस,इकोनॉमिकल,पॉलिटिकल बहुत सारी चीजें आ जाती हैं। इसमें एथिक्स कमेटी की जरूरत है, क्योंकि हमारा देश एथिक्स को मानकर चलता है और आप हमसे ज्यादा मानते हैं। मैं इसलिए मांडविया जी को कह रहा हूं कि Mandated counselling services should also be independent of the clinic. क्लिनिक की काउंसलिंग सर्विस को किसी की रसूख से बाहर लेकर आना चाहिए। The SRB and the Bill impose high sentences (8-12 years) and hefty fines. आप जानते हैं कि प्री-कंसेप्शन एण्ड प्री-नेटल डायग्नोस्टिक एक्ट, वर्ष1994 में लागू हुआ था। उसमें क्या निकला? The PCPNDT Act, 1994 demonstrates that enhanced punishments do not secure compliance. Lawyers and judges also lack medical expertise. Patients already sue fertility clinics in consumer redressal fora which is preferable to criminal courts. Unusually, the Bill requires all bodies to be bound by the directions of Central and State Governments in the national interest and friendly relations with foreign States. इसमें विदेशों से बहुत सारे लोग आते हैं। विदेशों से हिन्दुस्तान के इस डेस्टिनेशन पर आने की एकदम होड़ लगी है, क्योंकि वे जानते हैं कि हिन्दुस्तान में सस्ते में फर्टिलिटी हो सकती है। Public order, decency and morality are being broadly phased. आजादी को हम किसी हालत में वंचित नहीं होने देंगे, हमें यह सोचना चाहिए। मैं साथ ही साथ यह कहूंगा कि आप दोबारा फिर से सोचिए कि दोनों बिलों में कोई कॉन्फ्लिक्ट न बन जाए – सरोगेसी एण्ड एआरटी। लेजिस्लेशन लाने का यह मकसद कभी नहीं होना चाहिए। मैं मौके का फायदा उठाते हुए, अंत में एक सवाल पूछना चाहता हूं कि आपने वादा किया था,सरकार ने वादा किया था कि दिसम्बर महीने के अंदर हिन्दुस्तान में सभी को दो टीके लग जाएंगे। अभी थर्ड वेव आने वाली है। माननीय अध्यक्ष : इस पर कल चर्चा करेंगे। श्री अधीर रंजन चौधरी : मैं यह भी आपसे जानना चाहता हूं कि आपने इसके लिए क्या तैयारी की है? मैंने यह पहले ही कह दिया था कि मौके का फायदा उठाकर पूछ रहा हूं। मैं यह बिल प्रिंसिपल मानता हूं और सरकार से निवेदन करूंगा कि हमने, विपक्ष की तरफ से, जो बात रखी है, उस बात को मद्देनजर रखते हुए ठोस कार्रवाई कीजिए,यह आपसे निवेदन है। धन्यवाद। श्रीमनसुख मांडविया : माननीय अध्यक्ष महोदय, असिस्टेड रीप्रोडक्टिव टेक्नोलॉजी बिल, 2020 पर सम्मानीय 18 सदस्यों ने अपने महत्वपूर्ण सुझाव दिए हैं। उनमें श्री कार्ती चिदम्बरम जी,हिना गावीत जी, डॉ काकोली घोष जी,डॉ. बी. वी. सत्यवती जी, डॉ. आलोक कुमार सुमन जी,संगीता आजाद जी, सुप्रिया सुले जी, अनुभव मोहंती जी, रीता बहुगुणा जी, ए. एम. आरिफ जी, हसनैन मसूदी जी, प्रेमचन्द्रन जी, नवनीत रवि राणा जी, प्रतिमा मण्डल जी और लास्ट में अधीर रंजन चौधरी जी हैं। आप सब लोगों ने अपने सुझाव विस्तार से दिए हैं। मेरी अपेक्षा है कि मैं आप सभी को विस्तार से रिप्लाई दूं, जिससे आपको भी सैटिस्फेक्शन हो। आपका सुझाव यहां विस्तार से कैसे माना गया है और इस बिल में कैसे उसकी आपूर्ति की गई है, मैं बिल के ऊपर प्रारंभ करूं,उसके पहले मैं स्टैंडिंग कमेटी के सम्माननीय सदस्यों का आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं। उन्होंने न केवल यह बिल देखा, बल्कि विस्तार से उस पर गहन अध्ययन भी किया है, बिल को एक धभकार दिया। उन्होंने 46 सुझाव दिए हैं। उनमें से आपके 22 सुझाव सीधे तौर पर, अभी मैं अमेंडमेंट के रूप में यहां लाया हूं और 24 सुझाव ऐसे हैं, हम उनमें से कई सुझाव नियम में भी ले सकते हैं। इस तरह से आपका महत्वपूर्ण योगदान रहा है। आज कुल 18 सम्मानीय सदस्यों  ने अपने विषय यहां रखे हैं। मैं अपनी भावना व्यक्‍त करना चाहता हूं कि यह इंडस्ट्री नहीं है। किसी माता-पिता को संतान चाहिए, मातृत्व चाहिए। यह मातृत्व के साथ जुड़ा हुआ विषय है। यह माता-पिता बनने का विषय है, इसलिए उसको इंडस्ट्री को रूप में न देखा जाए। इन भावनाओं को ध्यान में रख कर सारा फ्रेम वर्क किया गया है। जब मैं स्टेंडिंग कमेटी के बाद मंत्री बना, तो मैंने उसके लिए एक बार फिर से विस्तार से public consultation, stakeholder consultation किया। कई लोगों के सुझाव लिखित रूप में आए थे और जिन्होंने वेबसाइट पर अपने सुझाव दिए थे, हम ने उनको भी विस्तार से देखा और उनमें  से जो कुछ भी ऐड करने की आवश्यकता महसूस हुई, उसे हम ने विस्तृत रूप से ऐड भी किया है। ऐसे कई विषय थे। एक 26 साल की महिला थी। उसकी retrieval के दौरान मृत्यु हो गई थी। ऐसी स्थिति में उनका ख्याल रखना आवश्यक होता है। हम उसको कैसे उसमें ऐड करें,इस दृष्टि से बिल को तैयार किया गया है। ऐसी भी कई शिकायतें आई हैं, ऐसी कई घटनाएं हुई हैं, मैं कई जगह ऐसा नहीं कह सकता हूं, लेकिन युवा महिलाओं के वूम का कई जगहों पर कामर्शियल यूज भी हुआ है। ऐसी शिकायतें हमारे सामने आई हैं, इसलिए कोई unethical practice न हो जाए, यह भी बहुत आवश्यक है। हम ने उसको भी बिल में मेंशन किया है। एक 74 साल की महिला ने इस सिस्टम का उपयोग करते हुए एक बच्चे को जन्म दिया। एक एज के बाद यह प्रैक्टिस न हो, यह फिजिकली बहुत आवश्यक होता है। हम ऐसी प्रैक्टिसेज को कैसे रोकें?यह 40-42 साल से चल रहा है, लेकिन उसको रेग्युलेट करना है, यह बहुत आवश्यक है। हम उसे रेग्युलेट नहीं करेंगे,तो ऐसी unethical practices बढ़ती जाएंगी और एक इंडस्ट्री का स्वरूप धारण कर लेंगी, यह बिलकुल उचित नहीं है। इस दृष्टि से कोई  unethical preservation न हो, वह भी देखने की आवश्यकता है। Sex selection भी हो जाता हो, यह कभी नहीं होना चाहिए, उसे भी रेग्युलेट करना था। Multiple embryo transplant करने के संबंध में हमें शिकायत और इंफॉर्मेशन मिली थी। एक-दो जगह पर ऐसे advertisement भी आ रहे थे। जिसमें caucasian gametes के लिए जहरात होती थी। यह बहुत गलत है। Gametes की मिक्सिंग हो जाए, यह प्रैक्टिस बन जाए कि हमें इस टाइप का gametes चाहिए, इस टाइप का बच्चा चाहिए, गोरा बच्चा चाहिए,एआई वाला बच्चा चाहिए,वह तो बहुत गलत हो जाएगा। हमें उसे कैसे रेग्युलेट करें, इन सब स्थितियों को ध्यान में रखते हुए, आज भी एआरटी हो रहा है, ऐसे बहुत से क्लिनिक्स हैं, लेकिन उनका कोई रजिस्ट्रेशन नहीं है। हमें यह पता नहीं है कि यह कौन कर रहा है? ऐसे ही एआरटी के लिए, एम्ब्रियो के लिए जो बैंक है, उसका भी कोई रजिस्ट्रेशन नहीं है। एआरटी सर्विस किसको लेना है,किस को नहीं लेना चाहिए, इसके लिए कोई न कोई एज फिक्स होनी चाहिए, यह भी नहीं है। जो डोनर है, उस वक्‍त जो वूम लेना है, उसको जो ट्रीटमेंट करनी पड़ती है, hormone treatment करनी पड़ती है, इसलिए कभी-कभी महिला के हेल्थ पर निगेटिव असर पड़ता है। जैसा कि मैंने बताया है कि किसी-किसी महिला की मृत्यु भी हो जाती है, उसका इंश्योरेंस हो, यह बहुत आवश्यक होता है। इसलिए हम ने उसमें व्यवस्था की है। जब इस प्रैक्टिस का उपयोग करके कोई महिला माँ बनना चाहती है, तो वह कितना एम्ब्रियो ले,इसको भी रेगुलेट करना आवश्यक है क्योंकि दो-तीन एम्ब्रियो लेने से दो बच्चे या तीन बच्चे हो जाएं,यदि कोई यह भावना पूर्ण करने की कोशिश करे, तो यह भी उचित नहीं होगा। इसके लिए भी इस बिल में व्यवस्था की गई है। यहाँ कई सम्माननीय सदस्यों ने अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस से संबंधित विषय उठाये। लोगों ने कहा कि उसमें जेल की सजा नहीं होनी चाहिए। यदि कोई अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस करे, उसको तो हम नहीं बख्श सकते हैं। ऐसा कोई कानून नहीं बनाया जा सकता है, जिसमें कोई इस तरह का फ्रॉड करके बच जाए। हालांकि हम डॉक्टर्स की इज्ज़त करते हैं, हर डॉक्टर ऐसा करेगा, यह भी नहीं है। यहाँ यह उल्लेख किया गया कि कोविड की स्थिति में देश को डॉक्टर्स ने बचाया। आज नहीं, बल्कि सदियों से हम डॉक्टर्स का सम्मान करते हैं,लेकिन इस तरह की किसी भी अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस के लिए हम कभी इजाज़त नहीं दे सकते हैं। इस दृष्टि से, इस बिल में सजा का प्रावधान किया गया है। … (व्यवधान) गलती करे, ऐसा नहीं है,अगर कोई अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस करे, तो ऐसा नहीं होना चाहिए। अगर कोई अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस करके बच्चे का सेक्स बता दे,ऐसा नहीं हो सकता है। कोई ऐसी प्रैक्टिस कर ले, जिससे महिला को नुकसान हो जाए। कोई कमर्शियली ओवम और एम्ब्रियो बेचने लगे, प्राइवेट बिज़नेस करना शुरू कर दे। यह तो समाज के लिए बहुत ही दुखद स्थिति साबित हो सकती है। इसलिए इन सारी स्थितियों में, हालांकि सभी स्थितियों में जेल भेजा जाए, इसकी आवश्यकता नहीं है। इन सारी बातों को देखते हुए, हमने इस बिल में प्रावधान किया है। सम्माननीय सदस्यों ने अपने-अपने विषय रखे हैं। उन सभी को मैं एक के बाद एक लूँगा। उन्होंने अपने सुझाव दिए हैं, मैं उनके सुझावों को भी इसमें ऐड करना चाहूंगा। इससे संबंधित अन्य कानून में भी दण्ड का प्रावधान है, सजा है। ट्रांसप्लांटेशन ऑफ ह्युमन ऑर्गन एक्ट में भी दस साल की सजा है। पीएनडीटी एक्ट में भी सजा है। मेडिकल टर्मिनेशन ऑफ प्रेग्नेंसी एक्ट में भी सजा है। सरोगेसी बिल में भी सजा का प्रावधान रखा गया है और इसी हाउस ने उसको पारित किया है। इसलिए कोई अन-एथिकल प्रैक्टिस करे, तो उसको दण्डित करना चाहिए। यह भी आवश्यक है। यहाँ यह विषय भी उठाया गया कि आप महिला से माँ बनने का अधिकार नहीं छीन सकते हैं। हम यह अधिकार नहीं छीनना चाहते हैं। हर महिला माँ बन सके, उसके लिए आपने जो सुझाव दिया था, उस सुझाव को हमने माना भी है। सिंगल मेन के अलावा, 21 वर्ष से ऊपर की महिला अगर सिंगल है, तो वह ऐसा कर सकती है। आज अकेले पुरुष के लिए भी गोद लेने का अधिकार नहीं है। इसलिए कोई महिला अगर 21 साल से ऊपर की है, तो उसके लिए भी छुट्टी की व्यवस्था है,हम उसे भी प्रतिबंधित नहीं रख रहे हैं। यहाँ यह बात भी आई कि विडो महिला के लिए भी छुट्टी होनी चाहिए और डायवोर्सी महिला के लिए भी छुट्टी होनी चाहिए। इसकी व्यवस्था सरोगेसी बिल में है ही। विडो और डायवोर्सी महिला के लिए, 35 से 45 साल की महिला के लिए सरोगेसी के माध्यम से माँ बनने का अधिकार प्राप्त हुआ है। उसमें 21 वर्ष से ऊपर की सभी महिलाएं एआरटी का यूज कर सकती हैं। यह सुझाव भी हमने मान लिया है ताकि भविष्य में कोई महिला मातृत्व चाहती है, तो वह माँ बन सके। माननीय कार्ती जी अपनी बात रखते हुए जो कह रहे थे, मैं उनका जवाब देना चाहूंगा।            … (व्यवधान) श्री प्रेमचन्द्रन जी जो विषय यहाँ रख रहे थे, आपने कहा कि दो बोर्ड क्यों बना रहे हैं, एक बोर्ड ही बनाना चाहिए। एक बोर्ड बनाने के लिए यह विषय हमें यहाँ लेकर आना पड़ा। स्टैंडिंग कमेटी ने कहा कि दोनों बिल्स, एक में कोख दूसरी महिला को देना है। अगर पत्नी को बच्चा नहीं हो रहा है, अगर उसमें कोई कमी है या वह अपने यहाँ बच्चा नहीं पैदा करना चाहती है,तो तीसरे को गोद लेती है। इसमें थर्ड पार्टी आ जाती है, तो यह सरोगेसी हो जाती है। एआरटी में महिला को बच्चा चाहिए,लेकिन उसकी फर्टिलिटी में कोई कमी है, ऐसी किसी त्रुटि के कारण वह एम्ब्रियो बाहर से बनवाकर अपने में इंप्लांट करवाती है, तो वह एआरटी बन जाता है। एआरटी और सरोगेसी में केवल इतना ही डिफरेंस है, इसलिए सम्माननीय स्टेंडिंग कमेटी ने उस पर बहुत विस्तार से डिस्कशन किया। विस्तार से डिस्कस करने के बाद उन्होंने डिसीजन लिया कि दो बोर्ड बनाने का कोई मतलब नहीं है,एक ही बोर्ड बनाया जाए और दोनों एक में ही काम करे और काम करने में उसे कोई दिक्कत न हो, उसकी भी इसमें सुविधा ऑटोमेटिकली हो जाएगी। इसके अलावा यहां एक और विषय रखा गया था, आपने कहा कि आपका औसिट   डोनर परिणित महिला ही होनी चाहिए। आपने यह भी कहा कि एआरटी क्लिनिक पर कैसे नियंत्रण करेंगे? रजिस्ट्रेशन में ऑटोमेटिकली उसका नियंत्रण हो जाए, ऐसी व्यवस्था उसमें ऑलरेडी की गई है। इसके अलावा डॉ.हिना जी ने एक बहुत अच्छी बात कही, उन्होंने कहा कि इसमें कपल के साथ काउंसलिंग करनी चाहिए, यही अच्छी बात है। देश में आज बहुत बड़ी संख्या में ऐसे बच्चे हैं,क्या काउंसलिंग करवाकर हम उनका अडॉप्शन नहीं करवा सकते? अडॉप्शन करवाने की भी आवश्यकता है,जिससे उसको बच्चा भी मिल जाए और उसका मातृत्व का भाव भी पूर्ण हो। इस दृष्टि से हिना जी का भी सुझाव बहुत अच्छा है और उसको हमें सामाजिक तौर पर लेना भी चाहिए। श्रीमती सुप्रिया सुले जी ने कहा कि सिंगल पुरुष को भी एआरटी का लाभ देना चाहिए। यह विषय सामाजिक भी है, बच्चों के विकास के साथ भी जुड़ा हुआ है और मातृत्व के साथ भी जुड़ा हुआ है। हमारा कानून भी प्रतिबंधित करता है कि हम पुरुष को अडॉप्शन के लिए,किसी को गोद लेने की अनुमति दें, इसलिए हमने यह प्रावधान नहीं रखा है। आपने जेनेटिकल टेस्टिंग की बात कही है, जेनेटिकल टेस्टिंग का विषय सभी केसेस में नहीं करना है, लेकिन कभी किसी केस में कोई कमी दिखाई दी, जैसे कोई एम्ब्रियो लिया और वह एम्ब्रियो नार्मल नहीं लगा, ऐसी स्थिति में ही जेनेटिक टेस्टिंग करनी है, बाकी जेनेटिक टेस्टिंग का प्रावधान नहीं रखा है और न ही रखना चाहिए। यह सरोगेसी बिल नहीं है, यह एआरटी बिल है, इसलिए मैं आपके अन्य क्वैश्चन्स का रिप्लाई नहीं दे रहा हूं। श्रीमती संगीता आज़ाद जी ने कहा कि उसमें आप गेमिट्स कितने समय तक रखेंगे? यह विषय बहुत महत्वपूर्ण है और जब हम नियम बनाएंगे,तब इसको एड भी कर लेंगे। अविवाहित महिला के विषय का जो प्रश्न था, मैंने उसका रिप्लाई ऑलरेडी दे दिया है कि वह वूम्ब नहीं दे सकती, ताकि यह एक एथिकल प्रैक्टिस रहे और कमर्शियल न हो जाए। कई ऐसी घटनाओं का मैं पार्लियामेंट के फ्लोर पर उल्लेख नहीं करना चाहता हूं, लेकिन एक महिला 21 वर्ष के बाद एक बार ही एआरटी के लिए अपना वूम्ब दे सके, यह जरूरी है, ताकि आज के बदलते समय में यह व्यापार न बन जाए, बिज़नेस न बन जाए। … (व्यवधान)हम इसे इंडस्ट्री के रूप में नहीं देखना चाहते हैं, इसलिए इसको कंट्रोल किया गया है और यह सुझाव भी स्टेंडिंग कमेटी ने बहुत परामर्श के बाद ही दिया है और उसको हमने माना है। … (व्यवधान) एलजीबीटी का भी उल्लेख किया गया। डॉ.कोल्हे जी ने उल्लेख किया कि एलजीबीटी को भी उसका लाभ मिलना चाहिए। स्वाभाविक तौर पर एक सिंगल महिला इसका लाभ ले सकती है। इससे ऑटोमेटिकली उसका लाभ भी मिल जाएगा, उसमें कोई दिक्कत नहीं है। आपने एक बात कही, जिससे मैं थोड़ा असहमत हूं। आपने मेंबर्स के लिए कहा, मेंबर्स के लिए आपने शब्दों का प्रयोग किया कि कौन ऐसा … *है, जिन्होंने यह बना दिया, ऐसे मत कहिए क्योंकि उसमें टेन मेंबर्स एक्सपर्ट्स हैं, उसमें10 मेडिकल प्रैक्टिशनर मेंबर्स लिए हैं। मेडिकल एक्सपर्ट्स की राय के आधार पर बोर्ड चलेगा। एग्जिक्यूशन करने के लिए एक एडमिनिस्ट्रेटर हो, it is one thing, लेकिन उसे गाइड करने वाला और उसका कैसे एग्जिक्यूशन करना है, उसके लिए 10 एक्सपर्ट लोगों की टीम होगी। डॉक्टर्स आपके ही क्लीग हैं, इसलिए उनके लिए ऐसे शब्द प्रयोग करने से मैं सहमत नहीं हूं। कुल-मिलाकर सभी विषयों पर मैंने बोल दिया है। एक विषय जेल की सजा का है। हम भी नहीं चाहते हैं कि किसी को जेल हो, लेकिन अनेथिकल प्रेक्टिस देख कर न करें। कुल-मिलाकर यह बिल बहुत सोच-विचार करने के बाद लोक सभा में लाए हैं। लोक सभा से यह बिल पारित होने के बाद राज्य सभा में सरोगेसी बिल पेंडिंग है यहां प्रेमचन्द्रन जी उल्लेख कर रहे थे और बहुत स्ट्रोंग्ली कोट कर रहे थे,नियम-66 का जिक्र कर रहे थे लेकिन उसका भी समाधान जब यह बिल बनाया गया और जब लीगल फ्रेम वर्क में उसके लिए डिस्कस किया गया और लीगल डिपार्टमेंट को भेजा गया, तब उन्होंने कॉलम-6 क्लाज में लिख ही दिया है कि यह बिल तब लागू होगा जब सरोगेसी बिल पास होगा। यह बात बिल में ही मेंशन की गई है, इसलिए कोई चिंता की बात नहीं है। उसका इम्प्लीमेंटेशन वैसे भी नहीं रुकेगा। वहां जब यह बिल पास होगा, तभी इम्प्लीमेंटेशन होगा। SHRI N. K. PREMACHANDRAN : Suppose the other House does not pass the Bill, what would be the fate of Clause 3, Clause 4, Clause 6, and Clause 7? श्रीमनसुख मांडविया : मैं बहुत ज्ञाता तो नहीं हूं, लेकिन जब आपने क्लाज-66 की बात कही, तब मैंने बुक में देखा। इस बिल में सभी सदस्यों ने अपने महत्वपूर्ण सुझाव दिए हैं। कई महत्वपूर्ण सुझाव जो बिल में नहीं हैं, जब नियम बनाएंगे, तब मैं अवश्य शामिल कर लूंगा। इसके अलावा भी किसी को कुछ कहना है, जो सदन में नहीं कह पाए हैं और आप चाहते हैं कि आप सुझाव दें, तो आप अवश्य दीजिए। जब रूल्स फ्रेम करेंगे तब अवश्य उन सुझावों को ध्यान में रखेंगे। मैं सभी सदस्यों का आभार व्यक्त करता हूं और सभी सदस्य इसे सर्वानुमति से पारित करें, यह अपेक्षा रखता हूं। DR. KAKOLI GHOSH DASTIDAR : Sir, through you, I want a clarification regarding the procurement of the ovum in the ovum bank. It is because the ovum is not available over the counter. It will have to be produced in a lab. So, if the bank, that is stated in the Bill, is not accompanied by a proper and a sophisticatedly-functioning IVF lab, then how will the bank store the ovum? The provision is there. So, how will the ovum come to the ovum bank? There should be a properly-functioning and a well-equipped IVF lab along with it. So, is there any provision for that? श्रीमनसुख मांडविया : यह बहुत अच्छा सुझाव है। बैंक और क्लीनिक, दोनों को साथ में लिंक करेंगे और दोनों को साथ में ही मैनेज करेंगे, इस तरह की व्यवस्था जब हम नियम बनाएंगे, तब करेंगे। माननीय अध्यक्ष : कोई और माननीय सदस्य क्लैरीफिकेशन चाहता है? डेमोक्रेसी से सारे काम होने चाहिए। श्री अधीर रंजन चौधरी : मंत्री जी, पोस्थूमस रिप्रोडक्शन के लिए आपकी क्या राय है? यदि किसी की मृत्यु हो जाए और उनका ओवम बैंक में रखा है। वे अपनी इजाजत उसे यूज करने के लिए नहीं दे सकते हैं, उसके लिए क्या प्रोविजन है? श्री मनसुख मांडविया :यह तो आपसी सहमति से ही हो सकता है। प्रो. सौगत राय ( दमदम ): यदि कोई मर जाता है और उसका स्पर्म प्रिजर्व्ड है। माननीय सदस्य ने पूछा है कि क्या उससे एआरटी से बच्चा हो सकता है?