1. The petitioner, apprehending arrest in the FIR, captioned above, for wrongful
allotment of tenders and causing loss to the tune of Rs.28 lacs to the public exchequer,
has come up before this Court under Section 438 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail. 2. As per para 14 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he had no criminal
antecedents. 3. Petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions including
declaration of assets by the petitioner and their family members, and are also
voluntarily agreeable to the condition that till the conclusion of the trial, the petitioner
shall keep only one mobile number, which is mentioned in AADHAR card, if any, and
within fifteen days undertakes to disconnect all other mobile numbers. The petitioner
contends that custodial interrogation and pre-trial incarceration would cause an
irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. The State's counsel opposes the bail and states that considering the allegations,

 1 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 19-09-2023 01:51:03 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:122451 CRM-M-31873-2023 2 the petitioner's custodial interrogation is necessary. REASONING: 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 19-09-2023 01:51:03 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:122451 CRM-M-31873-2023 3 authorities. It is those people who had done such tampering and shown wrong numbers
who are responsible at this stage, the kind of evidence which has been placed before
this Court, the petitioner cannot be held responsible for the same. 9. Given the penal provisions imposed and the sentence provided by the Legislature,
the nature of allegations coupled with the fact that the petitioner is a first offender, and
one of the relevant factors would be to provide an opportunity to course correct. Even a
prima facie perusal of paragraph 5 of the bail petition needs consideration for bail. 10. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565, (Para 30), a
Constitutional Bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must enter the
cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or refusal of bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005 (2) SCC 42, (Para 18) a
three-member Bench of Supreme Court held that the persons accused of non-bailable
offences are entitled to bail if the Court concerned concludes that the prosecution has
failed to establish a prima facie case against him, or despite the existence of a prima
facie case, the Court records reasons for its satisfaction for the need to release such
person on bail, in the given fact situations. The rejection of bail does not preclude filing a
subsequent application. The courts can release on bail, provided the circumstances then
prevailing require, and a change in the fact situation. In State of Rajasthan v Balchand ,
AIR 1977 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3), Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the basic rule
might perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail, except where there are circumstances
suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice or creating other
troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and the like by the
petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail from the Court. It is true that the gravity of
the offence involved is likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of justice and
must weigh when considering the question of jail. So also, the heinousness of the crime. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu v Public Prosecutor , (1978) 1 SCC 240, (Para 16), Supreme
Court held that the delicate light of the law favors release unless countered by the
negative criteria necessitating that course. In Prahlad Singh Bhati v NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4
SCC 280, Supreme Court highlighted one of the factors for bail to be the public or the
State's immense interest and similar other considerations. In Dataram Singh v State of
Uttar Pradesh , 2018:INSC:107 [Para 7], (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held
that the grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the
matter and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously,
compassionately, and in a humane manner. Also, conditions for the grant of bail ought
not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the grant of bail
illusory. 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 19-09-2023 01:51:03 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:122451 CRM-M-31873-2023 4 11. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT
of Delhi ) 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench
held that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive
conditions. In Sumit Mehta v. State of N.C.T. of Delhi , (2013)15 SCC 570, Para 11,
Supreme Court holds that while exercising power Under Section 438 of the Code, the
Court is duty-bound to strike a balance between the individual's right to personal
freedom and the right of investigation of the police. While exercising utmost restraint,
the Court can impose conditions countenancing its object as permissible under the law
to ensure an uninterrupted and unhampered investigation. 12. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 13. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponential growth in technology and artificial
 intelligence has transformed identification techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recognition are incredibly
 sophisticated and pervasive. Impersonation, as we know it
 traditionally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an officer believes that the
 accused might be a flight risk or has a history of fleeing from
 justice, then in such cases, appropriate conditions can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolution has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponential and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only fitting that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alternative options. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 14. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: OR (b). Petitioner to hand over to the concerned investigator a fixed deposit
 for Rs. Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automatic
 renewal of the principal and the interest reverting to the linked account,
 made in favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district,
 or blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief
 Judicial Magistrate'. Said fixed deposit or blocking funds can be from any
 of the banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any
 of the well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the
 bankers are not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it
 shall be permissible for the petitioner to prepare an account payee
 demand draft favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for a similar
 amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds until the case's closure or
 discharged by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declarations made in
 the bail petition and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the petitioners/applicants shall
 mention the following personal identification details: 15. The petitioner is directed to join the investigation as and when called by the
Investigator. The petitioner shall be in deemed custody for Section 27 of the Indian
Evidence Act. The petitioner shall join the investigation as and when called by the
Investigating Officer or any Superior Officer; and shall cooperate with the investigation at
all further stages as required. In the event of failure to do so, it will be open for the
prosecution to seek cancellation of the bail. Whenever the investigation occurs within
the police premises, the petitioner shall not be called before 8 AM, let off before 6 PM,
and shall not be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman treatment, etc. 16. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 17. Petitioner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail petition, made
before this court through counsel as reflected at the beginning of this order or in earlier
orders. If the petitioner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this
ground alone, the bail might be canceled, and the victim/complainant may file any such
application for the cancellation of bail, and the State shall file the said application. 18. The bail bonds shall remain in force throughout the trial and after that in Section
437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not canceled due to non-appearance or breach of conditions. 19. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused does not influence witnesses. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi ,
2022:INSC:735 [Para 28], Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on
July 20, 2022, A Three-Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail
conditions imposed by the Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they
seek to serve but must also be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The courts
while imposing bail conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity
of a fair trial. While doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation of rights
and liberties must be eschewed". 20. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any

 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 19-09-2023 01:51:03 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:122451 CRM-M-31873-2023 7 language that the petitioner understands. 21. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 22. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police or the
investigating agency from further investigation as per law. 23. In case the Investigator/Officer-In-Charge of the concerned Police Station arraigns
another section of any penal offence in this FIR, and if the new section prescribes
maximum sentence which is not greater than the sections mentioned above, then this
bail order shall be deemed to have also been passed for the newly added section(s).
However, suppose the newly inserted sections prescribe a sentence exceeding the
maximum sentence prescribed in the sections mentioned above, then , in that case , the
Investigator/Officer-In-Charge shall give the petitioner notice of a minimum of seven
days providing an opportunity to avail the remedies available in law. 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 25. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 26. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.