SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I need some life advice from a 3rd perspective.
DATE: 2023-04-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12x69nc/i_need_some_life_advice_from_a_3rd_perspective/

--- POST TEXT ---

**Please read the last line of the post if you don't want to read the whole thing**

I need advice from you guys as I am literally stuck in my life as well as my thinking. I don't understand anything at this moment. 

Now let me try to put my problems into words,

I come from the rural parts of a small remote town.

My mom worked as a maid and saved up some money. Now she had enough money(around 4-5 lac) to buy some form of property and think about building a home. But, she was deprived of education while wanting to study and she didn't want me as her only child to have the same fate so she decided to use that money for my education instead of trying to build a home.

For context, a home is pretty necessary to us as we live above a cowshed and when we open the window, there is cow dung and obviously flies and mosquitoes everywhere. It is right next to the place where my uncle and my grandfather live. Also my dad, uncle and grandfather are always having a cold war to the point that I have never in my life seen these 3 ever have a normal conversation.

So, my mom paid for my private school and my college, which my dad was against as he felt that "if you're good enough, you will shine from any place". He worked enough driving a local transport to keep food on the table and a drink for himself in the evening. I used to hate him for it at the time.

Now I go to the college. During the 3rd month I see that the whole college is a scam. Everything is just for marketing. The placements are fake. People get placed for name and they never get the call/offer letter. The only people that get placed are for the mass recruiters. I think that I should drop out, but the college had all my original documents so I was scared to do that. I couldn't even say this to my parents as it was their life savings they had burned for this, how could I say it was a scam? I didn't have the courage. The exams were purely luck. You could write the whole answer right and fail, or write the lyrics of a song and get the highest marks. I was demotivated to study and slowly went into deep depression. I started smoking weed. It was so bad that there was not a single minute that passed that I was awake and not stoned for 3 years straight. The only time I was motivated to move from my bed was to go to get weed or to smoke it. Its been 4 years since and I've not smoked weed since and I even stopped smoking cigarettes around a year ago. But only the problems I created for myself has gone away. The real problem is always there.

So, after college ended, I couldn't find a job. I stayed at home for a year which was a torture as I was experiencing extreme withdrawals from having completely stopping weed. I could not sleep for more than 2 hours. I would have extreme negative thoughts and there were nights I spent just crying and trying to figure out what was happening to me. On top of this, family, relatives, neighbors asking why I was not working because everyone thought I was studying at a good college and I was good in studies too so there was high hopes for me. All of this frustrated me even more and on top of this I would visit nearby and not so nearby cities searching for job, just any job, but no one wanted to hire me.

After an year of this, I called a friend who was working and asked if i could get a job there. He said that it would be contractual and had to work like laborers and pay was minimal. I had no options so I went. Fortunately, I got hired as a trainee engineer, but it was even worse. As a company employee, the company did not have to give me any overtime money, so, the work was basically minimum of 12 hrs per day(max I worked is 16 hours) 7 days a week and 365 days. Basically no holidays. In the 2 years I worked there, I went home 2 times after fighting for leave and not getting so just picking my bags and leaving.

for the past 1.5 years I have been working for a different company. It pays for any overtime and the work timings are fixed, so its relatively much better. The problem is I just earn 22k per month. I want to be able to build a home at a decent place for my family and have them retire. I am unable to sustain my life here. I feel like I'm just wasting my life. The current niche that I work for has very limited scope for growth. people with 12-15 years of experience earning 40k per month and have to do work like manual laborers.

I work in shifts and my whole health has gone down the drain. I am always sleepy and cant concentrate on anything.

I live 2000km away form home. I have no friends I can relate to, I have to save up for months just to go home and there is no way I can even live a normal life doing work like this. I want to get in a relationship but I cant as people in the current place I'm living in, I cant find any room for bachelors, and when I am from another state, forget it. There have been murders for people dating, so, forget it. Its been years since I ever talked to a girl. Arranged marriages in my hometown is extremely difficult to have since there is a good dating culture. My health bad as it is due to lack of sleep and lack of proper food. Did I mention I cant eat non-veg food. If i even talk about meat, I'm seen like I'm committing a crime.

Not to mention the constant threat of breaking something/losing my life if I happen to lose concentration while working at 3rd shift from 00:00 to 07:00.

My seniors say that my growth is well above average with respect to my exp/work. I cannot accept this. I cant even live a normal life. This is despicable. I don't know how to proceed further.

I have been learning web development for the past 8-9 months in my free time in hopes of getting a job that is work from home and a better chance of career growth, but people don't even call for interview, I don't know what kind of life I'm living and when this will all end...

&amp;#x200B;

**-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**

Suggest me how I can move to any good cities and at least have a chance to grow and make my life at least worth living and at least have the chance to try to repay my parents in some way.