SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Aukaat of Flipkart (Court Case) with pics and proof
DATE: 2023-11-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/17qfxh9/aukaat_of_flipkart_court_case_with_pics_and_proof/

--- POST TEXT ---

Aukaat of Flipkart vs Amazon India 
Flipkart aka Fraudkart - 
Wanted to share my experience (with pics) with flipkart &amp; many others who r experiencing it every day . 
How Flipkart hires a lawyer to defend themselves of Frauds they do &amp; even point finger at you (customer) that you r trying to harass Flipkart with mal intention . This is how they value their customers . 

This is what happens when fraud happens on Flipkart in contrast to Amazon .

I got a slip instead of ₹2899 CD &amp; return policy was not an option on dis product . So when i tried to contact Flipkart Customer support .. only an AI machine was there to attend me &amp; that machine repeatedly kept on saying that this product is received &amp; you cannot return it . As it was just a machine .. i cudnt even explain my situation . Then i tried to give a review on this product warning other buyers about this seller which did not get published . Then what i noticed is that on this popular product .. very few reviews were present &amp; all were positive. So even reviews on Flipkart are fake &amp; if someone tries to give real feedback .. it gets ignored to SAFEGUARD fraud that's happening on their website . 

COURT CASE-

after few months i filed a case against Flipkart .. i got call from someone working in Flipkart saying that we need some proof &amp; all other stuff in order to come to conclusion that me as customer is not lying . I said that i already posted review with pics but ur website didn't published it ... in reply he says that review may not be according to our policy .. 
I asked them if only positive reviews come under their policy ..? he didn't know how to reply to that . 
So in court instead of refunding me ₹2899.. they hired a lawyer who prepared papers which says that me as a customer is trying to harass Flipkart by false charging . It was also written that whatever happens on Flipkart website is not a responsibility of Flipkart at all . 
So are we as customers r fool to trust Flipkart as brand wen they don't even care what's goin on their website .
I cud hv continued this case but hassle of going to court &amp; fighting this giant Fraudsters was not something i thought is worth for . See this is not about getting 2800₹ back .. it's about fighting against such fraud companies who treat their customers like trash.

AMAZON CUSTOMER SERVICE- 

At last i wud like to tell How Amazon have dedicated teams to help u through ..in such situations . As one of their product didn't get deliver to me but it was marked as delivered on website .. i contacted them .. explained de situation .. they said give us 3 days .. our team will investigate on this matter if it was a mistake from seller or courier .. after 3 days they refunded me full amount . Usually i don't experience such things on Amazon . i hv bought multiple items from Amazon till now but i bought 4 items from #Flipkart &amp; 2 out of them were frauds &amp; they also harass u for using their website .