SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [RANT] SBI worker blames me for faulty transactions even though plenty of their customers are getting scammed
DATE: 2018-02-20
SCORE: 54
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7yvec1/rant_sbi_worker_blames_me_for_faulty_transactions/

--- POST TEXT ---

I received a message today about being credited with some 12k on my SBI account which confused me. Checked my online SBI account and realised that a week back some Google Octro had made a transaction of that 12k from my account which I had not realised. A simple google search showed that a lot of SBI customers were also complaining about this Google Octro thing (also found a TOI article on it). Its an App on the Google Play store from what I understood. But never mind that, I was just thankful I got my money back. However, a quick advice from my father was to close my SBI account because the Octro company may still have my account details and such, so there might be a risk of such fraudulent or faulty or whatever transactions to occur again. I've never taken the time to manage my finances or understand how fraud transactions work so this part is probably my fault because I realised a week late that 12k was even missing from my account in the first place. So I went to the bank to close my account and maybe create a new account after that.

Now I am not confrontational, and I even see my faults in the whole thing. But the man behind the desk was a whole different story. When I went and old him I'd like to close my account, he looked up the statement of my transactions. And I pointed out the faulty ones and he started blaming me for those.

He used a shitty ass analogy and I quote "if a pick pocket steals from a person and the person doesn't realise then the blame lies on the person for not realising." Yea right the pickpocket is the angel here for stealing from a man carrying a wallet. What the fuck is this victim blaming nonsense?? 

He told me I can't blame the bank for not realising I lost money. Except I didn't even blame the bank. I only told him I wanted to close my account and gave him the reason when he asked why??

And then I told him I have been busy with things plus my card was with my parents too during that time so I didn't properly check my account frequently and I realise that its my fault. And then he was like "of course its your fault. Computer won't make mistakes it'll only do what its told, so if there was a mistake in telling it what to do then you should've realised and complained." 

And then the icing on the cake was that he went on "You youngsters are on the phone the whole day doing WhatsApp yet you didn't check the transaction message. I know you people are always looking at your phone and message toh aaya hi hoga. Tumhi ne nahi dekha." All this after I explained that I know it was my fault that I didn't realise.

Why are office workers in India so rude? This may seem like a small thing for many of you but I hate confrontation and avoid it as much as possible. I even admitted the blame on my part and I didn't even lodge a complaint or anything but they still decide to aggressively blame and mock me for being irresponsible? lol and SBI is definitely not at all at fault even though plenty of their customers had actually suffered cause of this Google Octro fiasco.

My experience with SBI so far had been pretty decent until this incident. But now I'm just going to go ahead and get my account closed and move to another bank.

tl:dr SBI account had fraudulent transaction, got blamed for being irresponsible