Pronounced by Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member
 The above application was filed by the applicants viz., some of the

residents living near the S IPC OT Industrial Estate, Cuddalore District.

According to the applicants, the second respondent - State Industries

Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (S IPC OT) had developed an industrial

estate in Cuddalore District for the purpose of providing infrastructure

facility with a view to promote industrial growth in the State. The functions

of the second respondent include development of industrial complexes,

industrial parks and industrial estates, establishing sector specific Special

Economic Zones and implementation of special infrastructure projects. 2 Corrected Copy

Currently, the second respondent has 20 industrial complexes in 12

Districts and 6 sector specific Special Economic Zones and Cuddalore is

one such complex established by the second respondent. They had

established heavy chemical, pharmaceutical and energy industries in

Cuddalore Industrial Estate which is located 8 Kms south of Cuddalore

Town on the seaward side of Cuddalore - Chidambaram Highway stretching

from Pachaiyankuppam in the north to Sonanchavadi in the south of

Cuddalore. 2. It is also known as global toxic hotspot, facing lot of criticism and

concerns from the local communities especially with respect to

industrialization and pollution. The report released by the S IPC OT Area

Community Environmental Monitors (SACEM) in September, 2004 noted

that the residential areas surrounding a number of chemical manufacturing

facilities in the Cuddalore Industrial Estate documented extremely elevated

levels of a large number of toxic chemicals in the air breathed by

community members. The report showed concerns with regard to toxic and

carcinogenic chemical levels exceeding the ambient air standards and the

cumulative impacts of such large number of chemicals posing unacceptable

health threats to the communities living in proximity to the industrial

facilities. As per the findings of the report, a total number of 22 chemicals

were found in air samples, 8 of these chemicals were known to cause

cancer in animals and humans. Fourteen out of 22 chemicals, including

trichloroethene, benzene, chloroform, carbon, teteachloride, acrolein,

methylene chloride and hydrogen sulphide violated the United States

Environmental Protection Agency‟s safety levels as per Annexure A-1 which

is a report titled „Gas Trouble Air Quality in S IPC OT, Cuddalore. 3. The Madras High Court, suo motu, took note of the above mentioned

SACEM report of 2004 and directed registering of suo motu a writ petition 3 Corrected Copy

i.e., MEMBER SECRETARY V. STATE OF TAMIL NADU (W.P. No.27241 of

2004). In its order dated 29.8.2012, the Hon‟ble High Court directed the

Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to keep continuous air monitoring,

including for toxic gases of the units in the S IPC OT Cuddalore and take

necessary and suitable legal action against any errant or default unit as per

law, evidenced by Annexure A-2. 4. Further, on account of the severe air pollution, residents had also

complaining of falling water tables and the constantly degrading water

quality in the region. The analysis of water samples conducted by the Tamil

Nadu Pollution Control Board showed that ground water was available only

at the depth of 800 feet or more in comparison to the older depth of 30 feet.

Further indiscriminate extraction of ground water from the vulnerable

coastal acquifer and discharge of solid and liquid effluents from the

industries contaminating sub surface water. They are also dumping solid

wastes and discharge toxic effluents on to the land within or outside their

premises having large scale impact. 5. The State Human Rights Commission headed by the Retired Judge

investigated the pollution issue in the area in 1998 and reported

environment related human rights violations in S IPC OT and was over

polluted and the peoples health and the local environment could not

withstand the burden of new chemical industries, as evidenced by

Annexure A3 report. 6. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board in a reply under the Right to

Information Act informed that it had taken 41 samples from at least 11

locations in and around S IPC OT between February, 2013 and April, 2014

and they were tested and also ascertained their potability etc. Nine out of

the 11 locations were inside the premises of various factories in S IPC OT 4 Corrected Copy

complex. The report revealed that the water quality in that area was below

the drinking water standards and containing Cadmium, Chromium, Lead

and Iron etc in excess level than the permissible limit. The presence of

heavy metals in the water would be having bad health impact in the

people, including causing cancer disease in the people. On account of the

over extraction of surface water and depletion of ground water level, the

saline water intruded into the surface water in that area. Though the

Pollution Control Board and other regulators were aware of such toxic

substances in the water and the poor water quality, no serious actions were

taken against the persons who were responsible for such contamination

and pollution. Annexure A-4 and 5 reports would go to show the poor

quality of water in that area. The SACEM has been constantly demanding

clean drinking water at the cost of S IPC OT industries and remediation and

restoration of the contaminated ground water, evidenced by Annexure A-6

newspaper report. They also provided certain remedial measures for

restoring the water quality. Applying polluter pays principle, the

respondents are having legal obligation to provide clean drinking water to

the people and also have responsibility to restore the damage caused to

environment under Section 9 of the Environmental (Protection) Act of 1986

and other provisions of the environmental laws such Water (Prevention and

Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution)

Act, 1984 . 7. They also relied on the dictum laid down in the decisions reported in

DR. B.L. WADEHRA V. UNION OF INDIA (1996)2 SCC 594, SUBHASH

KUMAR V. STATE OF BIHAR & ORS (1991) 1 SCC 598), VIRENDER GAUR

V. STATE OF HARYANA (1995) Suppl. (6) SCR 78), INDIAN COUNCIL FOR

ENVIRO LEGAL ACTION V. UNION OF INDIA (1996) 5 SCC 281), M.C

MEHTA V. KAMAL NATH & ORS (2000) 6 SCC 213), VELLORE CITIZENS 5 Corrected Copy

WELFARE V. UNION OF INDIA & ORS (1996) 5 SCC 647), INTELLECTUAL

FORUM V. STATE OF A.P (2006) 3 SCC 549), M/S. IVORY TRADERS AND

MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION AND ORS. VS. UNION OF INDIA AND

ORS (AIR 1997 Delhi 267), G.R. SIMON V. LUNION OF INDIA (ASIR 1997

Delhi 301) and M.C. MEHTA V. UNION OF INDIA & ORS (2004) 12 SCC 118) in support of their case. 8. So the applicant filed the above application seeking the following

reliefs: 9. The first respondent filed reply affidavit contending as follows: Fishing activity is carried out in that river. River Uppanar is filled with

sea back waters with high TDS ad Chloride content. Water quality

monitoring, marine disposal are being done as under: Corrected Copy 29. The CEPI score after installation/commissioning of pollution

control equipments/measures were calculated as 54.69 during August,

2011. 30. Based on the action taken by the TNPCB to implement the time

bound action plan, MoEF had lifted the moratorium on 15.2.2011 in 8

more critically polluted areas which includes the S IPC OT, Cuddalore

based on recommendations received from the CPC B. 31. The CEPI score calculated based on the analysis report for the

period 2011-12 is as follows: 32. The CEPI score calculated based on the analysis report for the

period 2013 is as follows: completed before the end of March, 2015. So they prayed for accepting

the contention and pass appropriate orders in the matter. 34. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, on the basis of the

directions given by this Tribunal by order dated 7.9.2016 filed further

reply affidavit dated 26.9.2016, contending as follows: 28 35. The ROA of the water samples is described below: Corrected Copy

Status of water quality in bore wells located inside the S IPC OT 37. The details of water sample collected in bore wells inside the S IPC OT

Industrial Complex, Cuddalore is detailed below: 38. There are 6 number of bore well water samples collected from the

wells located inside the S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore. The

report of analysis of above samples revealed that the parameters of lead

and iron are exceeded in three locations and total hardness in two

locations out of six locations exceeded to the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2012.Status of water quality

in piezo metric wells located inside the S IPC OT 39. The details of water samples collected in piezo metric wells inside

the S IPC OT industrial complex , Cuddalore is detailed below: 40. There are 27 number of piezo metric bore well samples collected

inside the industries located in S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore.

The report of analysis of above piezo metric well samples reveals that the

parameters of nickel, lead and iron exceeded in 3, 15 and 5 locations out 31 Corrected Copy

of 27 locations respectively as per the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2-2012.And other general

parameters of TDS, Chlorine and total hardness exceeded in 1, 1 and 7

locations out of 27 locations respectively. Status of water quality in river

Uppanar located adjacent to S IPC OT 41. The Uppanar river is situated at Cuddalore 180 Km south of

Chennai and 25 km south of Pondicherry. The river flows between

Cuddalore town and most part of Chidambaram Taluk and confluences

with Bay of Bengal through a mouth of Gadilam river. It runs behind the

S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore.l 42. The river water samples collected in the upstream and

downstream of river Uppanar ast Poondiyanuppam village and Rasapet

village (near sump - 6). The flow of river Uppanar water mainly consists

of back water of sea water during high tide and low tide behind the

S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore and the storm water is being

confluence during rainy season in the upstream of river Uppanar. The

report of analysis of Uppanar river water revealed the presence of lead in

traces level. 43. Conclusion; It was ascertained fro the report of analysis of bore well

water samples collected outside the S IPC OT, inside the S IPC OT and Piezo

metric well water samples collected inside the premises of industries

revealed that the parameters lead and iron are commonly present in the

water samples and are exceeding the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2012. The report of analysis

of Uppanar river water revealed presence of traces level of lead." 44. The second respondent filed the counter affidavit contending as

follows: 32 45. So far as the present application is concerned, it relates to the

S IPC OT Industrial complex, Cuddalore which was established in the year

1984 and developed in Phase - I, Phase - II and Phase - III. Phase - I

over an extent of 518.79 acres in Kudikadu and Pachaaiankuppam

villages. Phase - II over an extent of 154.72 in Semmankuppam village

and Phase - III over an extent of 1934.41 acres in Periyapattu,

Kayalpattu, Thiruchopuram and Andalmullipalayam villages which are

located along Cuddalore-Chidambaram Highway. S IPC OT is providing

the following infrastructure such as water supply, roads, drains and

street lights apart from other allied service roads, cross roads etc. Apart

from that Post Office, Fire Station, CSIA Dispensary and Canteen are

being operated in the said area and in all 36 units including the Central

Ware Housing Corporation are under operation and 16 are under

construction. There are certain units which were sick and closed

numbering about 17. Out of the 32 operating units, 13 units were

categorized as red/large category units, 3 units were categorized as

red/medium category units, 8 units were categorized as red/small

category units and the remaining 8 units were categorized as orange and

green category units. They were all shown in Annexures II, III & IV. The

respondent is supplying water to the industries by having deep bore well

and they were all drilled to a depth of 1000 feet and the water is drawn

from the aquifer layer of depth 630 feet. By providing such a measure,

the prevention of sea water seeping through and as such the ground

water is being collected immediately on withdrawal. 33 Corrected Copy 46. It is submitted that a company known as Cuddalore S IPC OT

Industries Common Utilities Limited was formed for collecting and

discharging the treated effluent from member industries which is in turn

disposed of into the Bay of Bengal through pipeline and at a distance of

970 m. Further, the discharge is to a depth of 8 m below the sea

surface. This facility is in operation since January 2000. It is necessary

to submit that the said CUSECS Ltd., obtained necessary no objection

certificates under the various Acts like Water (Prevention and Control of

Pollution) Act , l974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act ,

l981 and no objection certificates from the Pollution Control Board and

Environmental Clearance under various notifications of the Central

Government. 47. It is respectfully submitted that presently 12 units only are

discharging their treated trade effluent through the said CUSECS. The

other 10 units have provided zero discharge system. There are about 10

units which are not generating any trade effluents. There are two

industries which are individually discharging their treated trade effluents

into the sea as per the norms stated above. The zero discharging

industries and the list of trade effluent discharging industries are shown

in Annexure Nos. V,VI & VII. 48. It is further submitted that so far as the ground water in S IPC OT

area is concerned, it is being monitored monthly by the 1st respondent.

It is further a fact that none of the industries in the S IPC OT industrial

complexes is discharging any solid waste So far as Air and Water

Pollution Acts are concerned, necessary safeguard under the said Acts

were done and the same is effectively controlled by the authorities

constituted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. In the above

circumstances, it is respectfully submitted that all the allegations 34 Corrected Copy

contained in the application submitted by the three individuals are not

correct. The said individuals are with a view to cause prejudice has

come forward with these set of allegations which deserves to be rejected

in limine. 49. It is a matter of fact that in an earlier suo motto writ petition in WP.

No.27241 of 2004 all these factors were taken into consideration by the

Hon‟ble Division Bench of the Madras High Court and the same was

disposed of on 29.8.2012. It would be seen that the applicants got

themselves impleaded as respondents No.14, 15 and 16 in the said writ

petition and ultimately the Division Bench had only directed the Tamil

Nadu Pollution Control Board to keep continuous air monitoring

including for toxic gases of the units of S IPC OT, Cuddalore and take

necessary legal action etc. In the said writ petition, the specific claim

made by the applicants to completely ban setting up of or expansion of

any unit had been negatived. Therefore, it is clear that the present

applicants are interested in closing down the S IPC OT by filing this

application. It may not be out of place to submit that they have also filed

similar application No.164 of 2014 before this Hon‟ble Tribunal.

Therefore, it is clear that the applicants are purposely targeting the

industrial units of the S IPC OT for their personal gains or publicity more

in the nature of political publicity. 50. So far as this respondent is concerned, while following up the

strict norms, governing the pollution, conditions are attached to the very

allotment order/lease deeds with conditions not to violate any of the

pollution laws and every industries are abiding by the said conditions. It

is further submitted that the government has already declared S IPC OT

area, Phase - I and II as special and hazardous zone under the

provisions of the Tamil Nadu Country and Town Planning Act as per 35 Corrected Copy

GOMsNo.1730 dt. 24.7.1974 which continues as on date. Therefore, any

permission if at all granted, keeping it in view of the area is declared so.

Therefore the entire allegations contrary to this is devoid of any merits. 51. The averments contained in para 2 and 3 relates to the forming of

S IPC OT and its functions and the allied activities of the Pollution Control

Board etc. The averments contained in para 4 with all sub paras traces

the earlier history relating to the units at Cuddalore. The narration is

only to pinpoint the pollution at Cuddalore by adding that it is because

of the units in S IPC OT. It is respectfully submitted that as stated

already as per the directions and as per the law governing the issue,

every aspect of the matter is being monitored by the Pollution Control

Board and other authorities and as a matter of fact the violations

mentioned in the various paragraphs and the defects pointed out are not

there at all. It is further submitted that this respondent is submitting

the latest analyst reports by the authorities which may be read as part

and parcel of this counter which will go to show that the entire

averments contained in para 4 are not true. It is further submitted that

so far as the presence of lead in the water, it is submitted that it cannot

be attributed to the S IPC OT and the entire area in and around Cuddalore

is having the same content in the water. Therefore, the presence of lead

which is slightly above the prescribed limit is common to the area and as

such this respondent cannot be said to be the cause for this. The entire

averment by the petitioner was only to project this issue which is not due

to the existence of the industrial units. 52. The averments contained in para 5 also general in nature and as

such this respondent is conscience of legal obligations which they are

discharging in letter and spirit. Though this respondent is not

responsible for any of the shortcomings in the ground water, the 36 Corrected Copy

respondents have taken the task of providing various drinking water

development in and around that area and supplying of drinking water to

various villages which are all accepted by the local people. Therefore also

the averments in para 5 are made without verifying the state of affairs on

ground. 53. The ground No.(i) alleging that the discharge from the industries in

S IPC OT is adversely affected the ground water for last two decades is

factually incorrect and contrary to the reports of the Pollution Control

Board. As stated already, the only few units which are discharging the

treated trade effluents that too in the marine sub soil without even

affecting the upper layer of the sea. 54. The ground No.(ii) is with reference to safeguard which will have to

be followed for air pollution which we have already submitted that it has

been taken care of and being monitored by the Pollution Control Board

authorities periodically and as such there is no air pollution on the part

of this respondent or the units in Cuddalore. Similarly the allegations in

Ground (iii) alleging that the Pollution Control Board has not issued any

notice under Water Pollution Act is totally without any basis as there is

no discharge of any treated trade effluent except the mode stated above.

Hence that ground also requires to be rejected. 55. The entire ground of attack seems to be that there are violations

and difficulties on the part of the Pollution Control authorities in

effectively enforcing the Act which is submitted is factually incorrect and

the Pollution Control Board is taking effective steps as per the law as well

as the directions issued by the Hon‟ble Division Bench and as such the

entire ground of attack on this ground requires no consideration and

liable to be rejected. 37 Corrected Copy 56. The reliance placed on the judgment of the Apex Court is with the

hidden motive of stopping the industrial growth which the very

judgments are condemning and what is required is a balancing of

industrial developments, urbanization without compromising the

pollution. Therefore the quoting of various judgments in the ground with

a view to enlarge the scope of application deserves to be rejected. 57. It is further submitted that so far as reading of the entire case laws

referred to by them will only support the theory of balancing the State

Industrial Growth which provides the job opportunity etc along with the

maintenance of standards of life Therefore it is submitted that the entire

application is made without any basis and verifying the status on ground

and the same is liable to be rejected. 58. It is further submitted that so far as this respondent is concerned,

being creature of a State and being registered as a company has got its

own obligation of maintaining standards as well as growth of industry

and has provided the following welfare measures directly as well as

through its member units. 59. Drinking water supply to villages: Cuddalore S IPC OT Industries

Association had contributed Rs. Seven lakhs to District Administration

under self sufficient scheme towards water supply arrangement and

drinking water is being supplied to nearby villages of Kudikadu,

Sangolikuppam and Semmankuppam Panchayat. 60. Under Corporate Social Responsibility Scheme, S IPC OT had

contributed Rs.91.00 lakhs to the District Administration under self

sufficient scheme for the construction of 15 over head tanks and 13

school buildings class rooms to the nearby villages as per Annexure -

VIII. M/s. Strides Shasun Pharmaceuticals Ltd, is providing drinking 38 Corrected Copy

water to the Kudikadu village & colony by tanker lorries on regular basis

at every door step. M/s. Clariant Chemicals India Ltd, is providing water

supply to Kudikadu Colony by piping system, besides M/s. Pioneer

Jellice India Pvt. Ltd., and M/s. Arkema Peroxide India Pvt Ltd., are

providing water supply to nearby villages at the entrance of their factory. 61. Medical Facilities: Cuddalore S IPC OT Industries Association is

running a first aid center in S IPC OT premises by providing morning one

doctor and one doctor in the evening to provide medical assistance to

villagers. Cuddalore S IPC OT Industries Association is operating one

ambulance service round the clock for providing transport facility for the

villagers to go to government hospital. M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd., is

operating three dispensary with duty doctor at Semmankuppam,

Nochikadu, Chittirapettai village to provide medical facilities to nearby

villages. M/s Tagros chemicals India Ltd., is operating four dispensaries

with duty doctor covering Pachiankuppam village, Sothikuppam village,

Manakuppam, Thaikal Thoni Thurai. M/s. Strides Shasun

Pharmaceuticals Ltd, is operating one dispensary with duty doctor at

Kudikadu village to provide medical facilities to nearby villages. M/s

Arkema Peroxide India Pvt. Ltd. Operating one dispensary with one duty

doctor and one male nurse at Semmankuppam village to provide medical

facilities to nearby villages. All the industries in S IPC OT industrial

complex had spent approximately Rs.35 lakhs in providing medical

equipments and now the government general hospital has obtained

ANASBH accreditation.‟ 62. Corporate Social Responsibility activity: M/s. Rkema Peroxide

India Pvt Ltd, distributed around 5 MT of rice to local village people

during recent flood in November 2015. M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd.,

distributed 34 tons of rice to local villages peoples during flood in 39 Corrected Copy

November, 2015. M/s. Coverstro India Pvt Ltd., distributed 2.0 Mt of rice

distributed during recent flood in November, 2015. 63. For clean India movement, we have provided dust bins to

Cuddalore Municipality for worth of around 3 lakhs. This respondent

further submits that this apart as a corporate which owes social

responsibility has provided the reliefs during the floods caused in

November 2015. It is submitted that reliefs are being provided by this

respondent as well as their member units in Thane cyclone, Tsunami

and every time when the crisis arises. Therefore the directions sought for

in the application to provide for such kind of facilities are already taken

care of by this respondent which is admitted by the local people,

presidents and villagers and the District Authorities. In the above

circumstances, it is therefore prayed that this Hon‟ble Tribunal may be

pleased to dismiss the above application with cost. 64. The third respondent - Central Pollution Control Board filed their

counter affidavit contending as follows: For strict implementation of action plan, the Central Pollution Control

Board has requested all the State Pollution Control Boards of 43 CPAs to

constitute local committees to conduct field visits and review/verify the

implementation of action plans and submit progress reports on bi-

monthly basis to the Central Pollution Control Board. Simultaneously,

the implementation of action plans in CPAs is also being periodically

reviewed by the Technical Review Committee constituted at the level of

Central Pollution Control Board. As the CEPI reflects the improvement

in the environmental quality due to implementation of action plan, the

Central Pollution Control Board is also carrying out periodical

environmental quality monitoring based on which CEPI is being

evaluated and the trend in the CEPI is being analysed for taking

appropriate decision on lifting/re-imposition of moratorium. The MoEF &

CC has initially adopted a policy of lifting of moratorium conditionally on

submission of verified progress reports from concerned State Pollution

Control Boards in the line of initiation/implementation of ground work

towards implementation of action plans. On the basis of that policy,

MoEF & CC lifted moratorium from Cuddalore vide their O.M dated

15.2.2011 upon receipt of progress report of implementation from the 41 Corrected Copy

Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The environmental quality

monitoring is being carried out by the Central Pollution Control Board

through the approved environmental labs periodically and CEPI is being

assessed based on the recorded monitoring data in the 43 CPAs. The

evaluated CEPI reflects the environmental quality of the 43 CPAs and

also serves as a yardstick to assess the progress achieved in the

implementation of action plans. 65. So far, three rounds of monitoring have been undertaken by the

Central Pollution Control Board for the years 2009, 2011 and 2013

based on which CEPI has been evaluated and the details of which for

Cuddalore CPA are as follows: Industrial cluster 2009 2011 2013

Cuddalore 77.45 78.41 70.12

2011 data: Mercury exceeds in 1 out of 4 locations

Nickel exceeds in 1 out of 4 locations

Manganese exceeds in 2 out of 4 locations

Iron exceeds in out of 4 locations

2013 data: Nickel exceeds in 1 out of 4 locations

Manganese exceeds in 2 out of 4 locations

Iron exceeds in 1 out of 4 locations

Boron exceeds in 1 out of 4 locations 42 Corrected Copy

The following measures were taken by the Central Pollution Control

Board, MoEF & CC, Government to combat the deterioration of

environmental quality i.e., air, surface water, ground water in various

polluted industrial clusters across the country including Cuddalore and

the following measures have been taken for that purpose: 66. The Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board requested all the

Chief Secretaries of States in which CPAs are located to constitute State

Level Committees under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary to ensure

regular review of implementation of action plans, thereby preventing the

degradation of environmental quality of the CPAs. Technical review

committee comprising of national level experts is being held regularly to

review the implementation of action plans formulated for each of the 43

CPAs. MoEF & CC vide OM dated September 17, 2013 directed Central

Pollution Control Board to undertake environmental quality monitoring

in CPAs through a third party on biennial basis for computing CEPI.

Accordingly, environmental quality monitoring in 10 CPAs namely

Ankleshwar, Ghaziabad, Indore, Jharsuguda, Ludhiana, Panipet,

Patancheru-Bollaram, Singrauli, Vastva and Vapi was undertaken by the

Central Pollution Control Board during 2013-14 and monitoring in

remaining 78 polluted industrial areas will be undertaken by the Central

Pollution Control Board during 2014-15. Tendering process for the

proposed monitoring is currently under progress. Directions have been

issued by the Central Pollution Control Board to all the concerned State

Pollution Control Boards of 43 CPAs for installation of Continuous

Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations and Continuous Water Quality

Monitoring Stations in each of the 43 CPAs. They have submitted that

the contentions of the Central Pollution Control Board may be considered

and appropriate order may be passed. 43 Corrected Copy 67. The fourth respondent has filed reply affidavit contending as

follows: 68. It is respectfully submitted that the S IPC OT INDUSTRIAL

COMPLEX, CUDDALORE was established during the year 1984. The

industrial complex has phase - I and phase - II where textile processing,

pharmaceuticals, dye chemicals, pesticides and miscellaneous industries

were located. The S IPC OST Industrial Complex, Cuddalore is located

along the Cuddalore - Chidambaram Highways (NH-45-A). S IPC OT

Phase - I has a total extent of 518.79 aces and Phase - II has a total

extent of 190.52 acres. 69 They are having the following infrastructural facilities viz.,

Water supply .. Total number of bore wells - 10

 Total yield - 3.1 MGD

Roads & Drains .. 18 m width road &

 12 m width road

Total length .. 7 km 44 Corrected Copy

Post office, Fire Station, CSIA dispensary, Canteen are operated in this

area. The S IPC OT Industrial Complex is surrounded by the following

topography: Fishing activity is carried out in that river. River Uppanar is filled with 51 Corrected Copy

sea back waters with high TDS and Chloride content. The water is not

used for any other activities. River Uppanar is monitored monthly at the upstream and downstream

side of the SIPOT area. Marine water quality is monitored by the Board

once in three months at the discharge point of CUSECS, M/s. Clariant

Chemicals (I) Ltd., and DESAL reject discharge by M/s. Chemplast

Sanmar Ltd., The report of analysis of ground water collected from the

four locations viz., S IPC OT project office campus, Kudikadu OHT, M/s

Tagros Chemicals India Ltd., and M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd., 78. It is respectfully submitted that monitoring mechanism of effluent

generating from industries are submitted as follows: 79. It is respectfully submitted that air quality monitoring system in

industries are submitted as follows: 80. A continuous ambient air quality monitoring station was installed

and operated by M/s. Asian Paints Ltd., S IPC OT, Cuddalore to monitor

SO2 NOx PM10 PM2.5. Leak detection and repair monitoring study was

conducted by M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd. M/s. Asian Paints Ltd., M/s.

Clariant Chemicals India Ltd., M/s. Shasun Pharmaceuticals Ltd and

M/s. Tagros Chemicals India Ltd and M/s Indo International Fertilizers

Ltd for the control of fugitive VOC emission and submitted the report to

the Board. 81. It is respectfully submitted that status on the industries

connected real time on line monitoring data to care air centre, TNPCB

Chennai are submitted as follows: Most of the plots were allotted to chemical and pharmaceuticals

industries. 64 Corrected Copy 94. S IPC OT also proposed to form an industrial park in Phase III vide

GO.Ms.No.179 dt. 30.6.1997, 749 dt. 12.11.1998 and 838, dt. 17.11.

1999 and acquired the land of 1197.90 acres and 736.51 acres. This

land has been allotted to 2 nos. of industries like Nagarjuna oil

corporation ltd., is 1647.34 acres and South India Mills Association is

244.444 acres. The above land has been acquired at Periyapattu,

Kayalpattu, Thiruchopuram and Andalmullipallam village in Cuddalore

and Chidambaram Taluk. 95. Details of industries in S IPC OT, Cuddalore as on 10.3.2015

Status Phase-I Phase-II Phase-III Total Under operation 30 3 0 33 Under construction 15 5 2 22 Sick Closed 17 0 0 17 Total 62 8 2 72 Out of the total no of industries allotted by S IPC OST, there are large

scale industries, medium scale industries and small scale industries. 96. The list of industries in Phase-I & II are listed below: 97. Water being supplied to the industries by S IPC OT from the 12

Nos. of deep bore wells dug within the complex. The bore wells were

drilled to a depth of 1000 ft. With 12" dia 10"dia and 8" dia boreholes

using with PVC casing plain and slotted pipes. The water is drawn from

the aquifer layer of depth 630 ft. And supplied to the industries. The

committed quantity and the average wader consumed by industries are

listed below: company under 1956 Act with equity participation by S IPC OT and

formed a company known as Cuddalore S IPC OT Industries Common

Utilities Ltd., for collecting and discharging the treated effluent from the

member industries into Bay of Bengal at a distance of 970 m. The

company CUSECS started functioning from January 2000. The

industries treated effluent are being collected by dedicated HDPE

pipelines and discharged into Bay of Bengal at a distance of 970 M. Out

of this 33 operating units, 21 industries are generating trade effluent. 99. All the industries have provided individual effluent treatment plant

in their premises. Out of the above, 11 units have provided additional

system to maintain zero discharge of trade effluent, remaining 10 70 Corrected Copy

industries are discharging their treated trade effluent into Bay of Bengal.

Among 10 units, 9 units have been discharging treated effluent from

their member industries for marine disposal into sea through CUSECS . 100. The CUSECS discharges the treated effluent directly into marine

through a separate pipeline of 970 m into Bay of Bengal. The remaining

unit M/s. Clariant Chemicals India Ltd, discharges the treated effluent

directly into the marine through a separate pipe line of 1 km into Bay of

Bengal. M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd., PVC Division has provided

desalination plant and discharges the diesel reject into Bay of Bengal at a

distance of 1 km into the sea. 101. The Zero Discharging Industries are: 102. The trade effluent discharging industries through CUSECS are: 103. Regarding para no.2: It is submitted that the averments in

paragraph 2 relates to the status of the applicants in the area and this 71 Corrected Copy

respondent has no comments to offer on the same except that the

industries in S IPC OT are not contributing to any ground water pollution

in the area. 104. Regarding para no3: Most of the plots were allotted to chemical and pharmaceuticals

industries. 105. S IPC OT proposed to form an industrial park in Phase III vide

GO.Ms.No.179 dt. 30.6.1997, 749 dt. 12.11.1998 and 838, dt. 17.11.

1999 and acquired the land of 1197.90 acres and 736.51 acres. This

land has been allotted to 2 nos. of industries like Nagarjuna oil

corporation ltd., is 1647.34 acres and South India Mills Association is

244.444 acres. The above land has been acquired at Periyapattu,

Kayalpattu, Thiruchopuram and Andalmullipallam village in Cuddalore

and Chidambaram Taluk. 72 Corrected Copy 106. Regarding para No.4.1: It is submitted that the averments are too

general in nature. Status on the industries connected real time on line

monitoring data to care air centre, STNPCB, Chennai. All the industries

in S IPC OT industrial complex have provided air pollution control

measures with online sensors. The details of online sensors provided

and connected with Care Air Centre, TNPCB, Chennai like PH, flow, SPM,

Nox, SO2 TVOC, CHLORINE SENSORS, FLOW METER, pH meter

conductivity meter, online BOD, COD and TSS meters etc TNPCB

continuously monitoring online parameters on regular basis. 107. Whenever the air pollutants exceed the standards, the Joint Chief

Environment Engineer, District Environmental Engineer of Tamil Nadu

Pollution Control Board and the unit head receive the SMS alert as well

as e mail from the CARE AIR Centre, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control

Board, Chennai for the rectification of the same immediately.

Immediately, the unit authorities rectify the fault and inform the status 73 Corrected Copy

of corrective action to the Joint Chief Environment Engineer, District

Environmental Engineer of Tamilnadu Pollution Control Board. 108. Regarding para No.4.l2: 109. The Hon‟ble High Court of Madras in its order dated 29.8.2012 in

W.PNo.27241 of 2004 has directed the Board to keep continuous air

monitoring, including for toxic gases of the units in S IPC OT, Cuddalore

and to take necessary and suitable legal action against any errant or

default unit as per law. Also it has stated that we do not see any reason

to lift the ban imposed by us on the functioning of CUSECS. However, it

is made clear that if CUSECS complies with the required legal criteria by

the authorities concerned like TNPCB, it is for the authorities concerned

to pass appropriate orders on the request of CUSECS. M/s. CUSECS

LTD., has applied for consent of the Board on 24.6.1996 under the Water

(P& CP) Act, 1974 and Air (P& CP) Act, 1981 and has obtained NOC from

the Board vide Lr.No.T5/TNPCB/F-9051/CUD/W/A/96 dt. 28.6.2004 for

the above said facility. The unit has obtained Environmental Clearance 74 Corrected Copy

under CRZ notification from MoEF , GOI vide Lr.No.J16011/24/2003-1A

dt. 30.11.2005. 110. Consent to operate was issued on 10.5.2013 for a period valid

upto 30.9.2013 The consent has been renewed upto 30.6.2015. M/s.

CUSECS has applied for renewal of consent under Air & Water act and

consent was received vide Proceedings

No.F.013CUD/RS/TNPCB/CUD/A/2016 dt. 13.8.2016 and F.

013CUD/RS/TNPCB/CUD/W/2016 dt. 13.8.2016 and the consent is

valid upto March, 2021. 111. Presently 10 units are discharging their treated trade effluent and

one unit discharges the treated sewage through CUSECS for marine

disposal and also consented by the Board. The details are as follows: The designed pumping capacity of the system CUSECS sump -6 is 500

m3 hr presently they CUSECS discharges maximum of 125 m3 hr. 112. Regarding para No.4.3: 113. It is submitted that none of the industries located in the S IPC OT

industrial complex are using cadmium, chromium, lead and nickel as

raw material or as finished products. None of the industries located in

the S IPC OST industrial complex are discharging their solid waste as well

as liquid waste into the land inside as well as outside the premises. 114. Regarding para No.4.4.1. It is submitted that allegations in this paragraph are made on

unsubstantiated data. As stated already, industries in S IPC OT complex

are not contributing towards any alleged contamination of ground water

in the area. The drinking water is being supplied by the District

Administration to all the nearby surrounding villages S IPC OT is

supplying water to the industries only from the bore wells drilled in

S IPC OT industrial complex 76 Corrected Copy 115. Regarding para No.4.4.2: 116. Regarding para Nos.4.4.3 and 4.4.4: 117. Regarding para Nos.4.5 & 4.6: Corrected Copy

This respondent states that all environmental concerns expressed by the

applicant have been addressed and continued to be attended to by this

respondent association and its member industries in the S IPC OT

industrial complex under the guidance and supervision of the statutory

authorities like the TNPCB and the District administration. The

industries have stood by the villagers and provided appropriate reliefs at

times of natural calamities like tsunami and Thane cyclones etc‟. It is

respectfully submitted that therefore the claims made in the application

as though the S IPC OT industries complex area has suffered serious

environmental damage and requires radiation at the cost of member

industries etc. Based on some archaic reports and unsubstantiated

allegations that are far from truth are baseless and motivated and

deserve strongest condemnation. The applicant in seeking prosecution of

officials without providing any credible data to substantiate his

allegations against them and for accusing the industries for any alleged

deterioration of drinking water quality in the S IPC OT Industrial complex

area without an iota of evidence to substantiate the same must be taken

to task for abuse of process of court. It is therefore prayed that this

Hon‟ble court may be pleased to dismiss Application No.34/2015 with

costs and thus render justice. 131. The applicant filed rejoinder to the reply submitted by the

second respondent, reiterating their contentions in the application and

further reiterating the allegations regarding the poor quality of

environment, affecting the water quality in that area and also regarding

the directions issued by the Tribunal, directing to supply drinking water

and also denying the various allegations made against them regarding

the bonafides on their part in filing the application. 82 Corrected Copy 132. They reiterated the suo motu action taken by the Madras High

Court in W.P.27241 of 2004 and the directions issued thereon by

judgment dated 29.8.2012, directing the pollution control Board to

monitor the ambient air quality and take appropriate steps to arrest the

pollution that is being happening in that area. The request made by the

respondents 14 to 16 in that writ petition viz., the present applicant to

ban the setting up or expansion of units in Cuddalore S IPC OT industries

was not acceptable and the applicant had reiterated that that will not

prevent them from filing this application regarding the poor quality of

water pollution caused, as that aspect has not been considered by the

High Court in the writ petition mentioned above. So they reiterated their

relief for allowing the application. 133. As per order dated 7.9.2016, this Tribunal had considered the

report submitted by the Pollution Control Board regarding the nature of

pollution caused to the ground water and directed the fourth respondent

to make immediate arrangement for the purpose of supply of drinking

water facilities to all the residents in the S IPC OT, Cuddalore area and

directed the State Pollution Control Board to conduct fresh analysis of

the water samples and file a status report. 134. As per order dated 29.9.2016 this Tribunal had considered

the report submitted by the Pollution Control Board wherein they have

stated that the comparison of the analysis of water samples taken

outside the S IPC OT industrial complex as well as inside S IPC OT

industrial complex showed that the parameters of Lead and Iron are

commonly present in excess of the prescribed standards. The presence of

Nickel was not mentioned and so the Pollution Control Board was

directed to file further report. 83 Corrected Copy 135. As per order dated 1.2.2019, this Tribunal had considered the

pleadings and also various reports filed by the Pollution Control Board

and appointed a Joint Committee comprising of the Central Pollution

Control Board and Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board to collect

the samples from the bore wells and shallow aquifers, peizo metric wells

in and around S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore and Uppanar river

and furnish a report to this Tribunal within one month. The Committee

was also directed to ascertain the status of functioning of ETPs or other

effluent treatment devices used by the industries and further directed to

ascertain as to how much quantity of drinking water must be supplied to

the inhabitants. The S IPC OT association which is supplying the drinking

water may suitably increase the quantity of water, having regard to the

needs of the inhabitants and viability of water availability. 136. As per order 8.7.2019, this Tribunal has considered the Report

of the Joint Committee and also the objections filed by the applicant and

observed that out of 28 samples taken from the piezo metric wells

situated within the industrial area, 9 were found exceeding the

acceptable limit of TDS of 500 mg.L. The concentration of Calcium and

Magnesium hardness in water while the other parameters were found

acceptable within limits of standard of drinking water. This Tribunal also

expressed its dissatisfaction regarding the functioning of ETPs, as the

samples for both the inlet and outlets had not been taken and tested and

the adequacy of the pollution control devices examined. 137. So this Tribunal directed the Joint Committee to draw a Terms of

Reference regarding the following aspects and submit a report viz., (i) To take the samples from the inlet and outlet of all the ETPs to

ascertain as to whether the effluent are within the prescribed limit; 84 Corrected Copy (ii) To ascertain the source of the heavy metal pollutants like Nickel,

Cadmium, Manganese, Iron and Lead etc. (iii) To ascertain the adequacy of the pollution control devices installed by

the industry. (iv) After such tests, to assess the environmental compensation to be paid

by the individual units for the default on their part.

The committee was also directed to ascertain as to whether the action

plan had been implemented and if so whether there has been any

improvement of the situation in the area. The Committee was also

directed to assess the environmental damage caused to the area and

submit the report. 138. The Joint Committee submitted the report dated 25.3.2019. The

committee also annexed the status of functioning of ETPs of different

industries as Annexure 4-b. 139. On the basis of the directions issued by this Tribunal, the Joint

Committee has filed the report dated 11.11.2019 which reads as follows: Based on assessment conducted in 2018, the air & land environment

found improved but no improvement observed in the water environment

w.r.t CEPI score. TNPCB communicated meeting with stake holders and

is in the process of preparing action plan to improve the environmental

quality of Cuddalore S IPC OT industrial complex. Final observations and conclusions of Committee: As per the joint

monitoring of industries as well as sediment samples collected from

Uppanar river following are the conclusions: 140. The Pollution Control Board also filed the status report as

directed by this Tribunal signed on 3.10.2016 which reads as follows: Based on the Hon‟ble NGT diection, fresh water samples from bore

wells piezo metgric ells in and around S IPC OT and Uppanar river are

collected on 9.9.2016 and 12.9.2016. The above said samples were

collected by the TNPCB officials and analyzed in the advanced

environmental laboratory, TNPCB, Cuddalore. The report of analysis of

the water samples is described below: Status of water quality in bore wells located inside the S IPC OT 37. The details of water sample collected in bore wells inside the S IPC OT

Industrial Complex, Cuddalore is detailed below: 38. There are 6 number of bore well water samples collected from the

wells located inside the S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore. The

report of analysis of above samples revealed that the parameters of lead

and iron are exceeded in three locations and total hardness in two

locations out of six locations exceeded to the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2012.Status of water quality

in piezo metric wells located inside the S IPC OT 39. The details of water samples collected in piezo metric wells inside

the S IPC OT industrial complex , Cuddalore is detailed below: 40. There are 27 number of piezo metric bore well samples collected

inside the industries located in S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore.

The report of analysis of above piezo metric well samples reveals that the 121 Corrected Copy

parameters of nickel, lead and iron exceeded in 3, 15 and 5 locations out

of 27 locations respectively as per the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2-2012.And other general

parameters of TDS, Chlorine and total hardness exceeded in 1, 1 and 7

locations out of 27 locations respectively. Status of water quality in river

Uppanar located adjacent to S IPC OT 41. The Uppanar river is situated at Cuddalore 180 Km south of

Chennai and 25 km south of Pondicherry. The river flows between

Cuddalore town and most part of Chidambaram Taluk and confluences

with Bay of Bengal through a mouth of Gadilam river. It runs behind the

S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore.l 42. The river water samples collected in the upstream and

downstream of river Uppanar ast Poondiyanuppam village and Rasapet

village (near sump - 6). The flow of river Uppanar water mainly consists

of back water of sea water during high tide and low tide behind the

S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore and the storm water is being

confluence during rainy season in the upstream of river Uppanar. The

report of analysis of Uppanar river water revealed the presence of lead in

traces level. 43. Conclusion; It was ascertained fro the report of analysis of bore well

water samples collected outside the S IPC OT, inside the S IPC OT and Piezo

metric well water samples collected inside the premises of industries

revealed that the parameters lead and iron are commonly present in the

water samples and are exceeding the drinking water standards of

accepted limit as prescribed in the IS 10500:2012. The report of analysis

of Uppanar river water revealed presence of traces level of lead." 122 Corrected Copy 141. The applicant filed objection to the report dated 27.3.2019

which reads as follows: 142. Thus the applicants sought the following relief from this Hon‟ble

Tribunal: 143. That several orders have been passed by his Hon‟ble Tribunal in

the present matter, highlighting the critical situation in S IPC OT

Industrial Area, Cuddalore. During the pendency of the case, the

Southern Bench of this Hon‟ble Tribunal was pleased to pass an interim

order dt. 7.9.2016 in light of the huge water pollution problem faced by

the S IPC OT, Cuddaloe residents based on the analysis of the samples

taken by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The relevant part of

the order is reproduced hereunder.: The said order is reproduced hereunder: 144. When the matter was taken up on 1.2.2019 the Hon‟ble Tribnal

noted as follows: 125 The Committee may also ascertain the status of functioning of ETPs or other

 effluent treatment devices used by the industries. The Committee may also report

 as to how much the quantity of drinking water must be supplied to the

 inhabitants. The TNSPCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and

 compliance. A copy of this order be sent to the TNSPCB by e-mail for compliance.

 The S IPC OT association which is supplying the drinking water may

 suitably increase the quantity of the water, having regard to the

 needs of the inhabitants and viability of water availability.

 Put up for consideration of the report on 27.03.2019. 145. Thus, it is clear that the joint inspection team was directed to: 146. Before responding to the findings and recommendations of the

report dated 25.3.2019, it is important to state the conclusions of the

Joint Inspection Team. 3. Conclusions: 4.45 T/Day and 16.72T/Day respectively. The sludge and the salt are disposed to the
 common TSDF. Out of 26 units, 22 units installed online monitoring system to monitor pH, &Flow
 and 4 units has online monitoring system to monitor pH, Flow, BOD, COD.

 vi. The Quantity of drinking water supplied to the inhabitants : There are 4
 Panchayat in and around the S IPC OT, 6 villages belongs to Kudikadu and
 Sedapalayam Panchayat, 3 villages under Pachayankuppam and 6 villages under
 Semmankuppam. Drinking water to these villages being supplied through Tanker
 Lorries, OHTs and R.O Plants. As per the information provided concerned Panchayat
 office, KudiKadu Panchayat and Sedapalyam Panchayat are supplied 23% more than
 the required water supply. However two panchayats viz. Pachayankuppam (- 49%)
 and Semmankuppam(-54%) are supplied with less than the required water supply. 147. The applicants would like to make the following submissions in

response to the Joint Inspection Report dated 25.3.2019.

On the samples collected from bore wells: 128 148. On the issue of status of effluent treatment plants and other

effluent treatment devices: 149. That another critical observation of the joint inspection team is

that the source of water is ground water which is withdrawn through

bore wells. It is pertinent to note that the ground water levels have been

consistently declining in Cuddalore District. Despite this, the joint

inspection team failed to look into the issue whether these industries had

valid NOC from the CGWA and whether the guidelines of 2015 were

being followed. It is pertinent to note that water intensive industries

cannot be permitted to extract ground water in over exploited areas.

 150 That further it is submitted that the joint inspection team has not

even considered the compliance status of the conditions of the consent

regarding effluent treatment of any of the ETPs. In fact, the report notes

that the consent of several industries are to expire on 313.2019.

However, no action has been taken against the said industries for non

renewal and operating without valid consent by these industries. 151. It is pertinent to note that the joint inspection team has failed to

consider the earlier report of high level pollution and contamination in

the S IPC OT area which has also been recorded by this Hon‟ble Tribunal

in the order dated 7.9.2016 wherein the TNPCB‟s findings are

categorically recorded that ground water quality in S IPC OT, Cuddalore based on the analysis

of the samples taken by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board that the ground water in and around

S IPC OT Industrial Estate is heavily contaminated including cadmium and is not suitable for drinking or

other purposes involving contact with humans or cattle. 130 Corrected Copy

 The samples taken from 10 out of 11 localities show that Cadmium level was 5 to 128

above permissible limits in samples collected from S IPC OT Project Office; it was 3 to 125

times above limits in samples collected from Kudikadu overhead tank; it was 3 to 130 times

above limits in samples collected from M/s.Tagros and it was 3-128 times above limits in

samples collected from samples collected from the premises of M/s.Chemplast Sanmar

Further, CPC B had also reported high levels nickel, manganese, Mercury

and iron in its 2013 report. There has been no change in the situation

as was prevailing between the time of these findings and the present joint

inspection team. Therefore, it is questionable if the findings are reliable

in the light of this non application of mind by the joint inspection team

Further, the applicant had also put on record 2014 analysis by the

applicants. It is pertinent to note that Cuddalore is already categorised

as a critically polluted area in 2009 and the condition has only worsened

over the years. It is submitted that the applicants had filed the above

titled application seeking assessment of the environmental damage and

for remediation of the area. In fact, even in the order dated 1.2.2019 this

Hon‟be Tribunal had noted as follows: 152. On the issue of drinking water: 131 153. The applicant also filed objection the Joint Inspection Report

dated 11.11.2019 which reads as follows: 154. That the applicants have specifically sought directions with respect

of time bound independent assessment of the extent of environmental

damage as well as plan for restoration and remediation of the

groundwater which is admittedly contaminated due to the industrial

activities by the member industries of S IPC OT Cuddalore. It is submitted

that until then, there must be a moratorium with respect to expansion

and setting up of new industries, so as to prevent further environmental

damage. The applicants had also sought directions for prosecution of the

responsible officers of the TNPCB who have not taken any action against

the violators under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of

Pollution) Act of 1974. 155. That even though the above titled application was filed in 2015,

with several documents which showed that the ground water in the

entire Cuddalore area is contaminated with presence of heavy metals.

Over the course of the proceedings, there have been several reports of the

TNPCB which have also confirmed presence of heavy metals in the

ground water in the area in question. However, till date there has been

no assessment of the extent of damage and no time bound remediation

plan has been prepared. Further, the residents living around the

S IPC OT complex in Cuddalore are suffering due to the contaminated and

toxic ground water which is adversely impacting their health. It is

further submitted that the joint committee has failed to consider this

back ground while dealing with entire issue and submitting the report. 133 Corrected Copy 156. That when the matter was taken up on 1.2.2019 the Hon‟ble

Tribunal noted as follows: metric wells in and around S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore and Uppanar

 River and furnish areport to this Tribunal within one month by e-mail at [email protected] . The Committee may also ascertain the status of functioning of ETPs or other

 effluent treatment devices used by the industries. The Committee may also report

 as to how much the quantity of drinking water must be supplied to the inhabitants.

 The TNSPCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance.

 A copy of this order be sent to the TNSPCB by e-mail for compliance.

 The S IPC OT association which is supplying the drinking water may

 suitably increase the quantity of the water, having regard to the

 needs of the inhabitants and viability of water availability."

That in purported compliance of the Hon‟ble Tribunal‟s directions, the TNPCB

filed a joint inspection report dated 27.3.2019. The said report had also

found contamination in the ground water samples. The following findings are

relevant: 134 The following observations are noteworthy: 157. That the applicants have now received a report dated

11.11.2019 submitted by the TNPCB purportedly in compliance of

the order dated 8.7.2019. At the outset the applicants would like

to make the following submissions: 168. Further, in the matter of Janardan Kundalik Rao Pharande & ors Vs.

 MoEF & ors. (O.A.No.7/2014) (WZ) vide order dated 11.7.2019 this 146 Corrected Copy

Hon'ble Tribunal considered the methodology for assessment of

environmental compensation upon recommendation of the committee

comprising representatives of MoEF & CC, CPC B and IIT, Mumbai.

Following methodology was formulated for assessment of compensation: 169. This was done in view of order dated 20.2.2019 of the Tribunal

which directed constitution of a committee to assess the amount required for

remediation of environment and for compensating he victims. It is

submitted that the said case was with respect to compensation to farmers

who were victims of pollution. In the present case, there is a need to look at

the cumulative assessment of the adverse impact and the extent of the same

and methodology to remediate the area as well as compensate the residents. 170. That the applicants submit that the industries in S IPC OT have been

contaminating the environment since late 1990s. The present application as

filed in 2015 with respect of remediation of the contaminated ground water

in the villages around S IPC OST units. It is submitted that the report dated

11.11.2019 is completely lacking as it has restricted its inspection to the

units currently in operation in S IPC OT but has not done any analysis or test

of the ground water quality in and around the villages of S IPC OT. The

committee has simply recommended that for further improvement of

environmental quality of Cuddalore S IPC OT industrial complex, a revised 147 Corrected Copy

 CEPI action plan is to be prepared and implemented in a time bound

 manner. Further, no cumulative impact has been assessed by the committee

 with respect to the damage to the environment. Thus, the committee has

 undertaken a lackadaisical exercise and has not fully complied with the

 directions of this Hon'ble Tribunal. Therefore, in light of the above made submissions, this Hon'ble Tribunal

 may be pleased to grant the prayers in the Original Application. 171. The second respondent filed additional reply which reads as

follows: 172. I submit that the applicant has filed the above O.A.No.34 of 2015

and in the above O.A, the only grievance raised by the applicant was this

respondent was not supplying water to the nearby villages and as a

villager, he was affected by the non supply of water by this respondent.

This respondent has filed a detailed counter affidavit stating that the list

of industries functioning at S IPC OT Industrial Complex at Cuddalore and

how water is supplied to the nearby villages with the supporting

documents. The grievance of the applicant is that the industries

functioning in the industrial complex, Cuddalore are polluting the

villages which are wild allegations and without any basis and supporting 148 Corrected Copy

documents. This Hon‟ble Tribunal was pleased to direct the Central

Pollution Control Board and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to

conduct three inspections at various levels during various dates and the

report of the joint inspection was also filed before this Hon‟ble Tribunal.

A perusal of the report would go to show that the industries are treating

their trade effluent generated to the best standards available, economic

viability and comply with standards prescribed by TNPCB from time to

time. Some of the major industries had gone for zero liquid discharge

system and they are not letting out any effluent. Industries which are

generating trade effluent and treat their effluent by the individual

industries to the best standards and discharge through CUSECS for

marine disposal. The tested water samples at various stages of raw

effluent, treated effluent were inspected along with the submitted

documents filed by TNPCB. Hence it is evident from these documents

that the industries are not contributing any water pollution so as to

damage ground water/soil in the surrounding area. None of the

industries located in the S IPC OST Industrial complex are using

Cadmium Chromium Lead and Nickel as raw material or as finished

products and this has been stated in our counter affidavit filed during

the year 2015. 173. The Joint Committee comprising of CPC B & TNPCB officials had

inspected the units and submitted the report to the Hon‟be National

Green Tribunal, as per the guideline laid. This respondent is supplying

sufficient drinking water by tanker loads to the surrounding villages of

S IPC OT such as Vairankuppam, Thatchan colony,

Semmankuppam,Sangolikuppam, Eachankadu, Kuikadu,

Pachiankuppam and the photographic evidence were submitted to this

Hon‟ble Tribunal. I further submit that the joint committee comprising of 149 Corrected Copy CPC B & TNPCB officials had inspected the units and the effluent

treatment system and collected samples of raw effluent and final treated

effluent and submitted the report of analysis to this Hon‟ble Tribunal as

per the guidelines laid. 174. I submit that based on the information provided in the report,

now the applicant is accusing this respondent for drawing water and

supplying without obtaining permission from the Central Ground Water

Authority. In this context whether the state has the power to regulate

the extraction of ground water which was subject matter of batch of writ

petitions filed before this Madras High Court. The learned single Judge

upheld the validity of G.O.Ms.142 where the CGWA was also a party

respondent and against the same the batch of writ appeals are filed

which are still pending. So the issue of obtaining

license/permission/NOC for existing bore well units is pending before

High Court and as o date the existing units are still functioning with the

interim orders granted by the High Court. At this juncture it is to be

noted S IPC OT being a state owned corporation does not require any

permission to extract water from existing bore wells. 175. It is pertinent to state that the S IPC OT Industrial Complex sat

Cuddalore was set up in the year 1984 and during that period itself

borewells were installed. The Central Ground Water Authority was

constituted under Section 3(3) of the Environment Protection Act, 1995.

It is submitted that the Central Ground Water Authority is regulating

withdrawal of ground water by industries/projects in 802 over exploited

and 169 Critical Assessment Units. List of these critical areas has been

circulated to the State Pollution Control Boards and MOEF which refer

the new industries/projects to CGWA for obtaining permission: 150 176. A perusal of the notification issued b the CGWA would got to show

that the District of Cuddalore is not a „critical zone‟ or „over exploited

zone‟ and the ground water level is in the „safe zone‟. Therefore, the

question of getting permission from the CGWA does not arise. I submit

that the 2nd respondent is drawing water from their deep borewell and

also supplying water to the industries from the year 1984. I further

submit that at that point of time, authorization was not required from

Central Ground Water Authority. The Central Ground Water Authority

does not issue No Objection Certificate for the ground water withdrawal

in the States of Andhra Pradesh, NCT Delhi, Goa, Himachal Pradesh,

Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West

Bengal and in Union Territories of Chandigarh, Puducherry and

Lakshadweep. 177. I submit that the 2nd respondent has been drawing water from

12 numbers of deep aquifer layer bore wells. The 2nd respondent is

supplying water to all the industries for the last 35 years and there is no 151 Corrected Copy

decline in ground water level - quantity & quality in water. The 2nd

respondent had drilled all bore wells before the year 1995 and the 2 nd

respondent had drilled all bore wells before the circular issued by the

Chief Engineer, Chennai in Circular No.CE-5/2010/DD(G)/2.7.2010. It

is pertinent to state that the above G.O is exclusively meant for Panchatti

village in Thiruvalur District. The reference to the G.O will have not

application to the present case. Since Thiruvallur District has been

classified as a critical zone by the Central Ground Water authority and

after 2015 floods, the ground water level has increased in all part of

States of Tamil Nadu and the G.O referred cannot be a yardstick because

of the frequent changes of the ground water table depending on the

monsoon and rains of every year. 178. I submit that the 2 nd respondent has come to know that there is a

proposal pending with the Government side for regularization of

borewells drilled before the year 2010. The 2n respondent was requested

to take up this issue and regularize their bore wells from State

Government Ground Water Authorities and to get No Objection

Certificate from the State Ground Water Authorities, Chennai at the

earliest. However, in view of the recent developments, I humbly submit

that the 2nd respondent has proposed 20 MLD desalination plant for

Cuddalore S IPC OT and the work order was issued Lr. to the Tamilnadu

Water Investment Company Ltd., vide

Lr.No.CW/CUD/TWIC/Desalination plant/2018 dt. 9.8.2019. The

detailed study for installation of desalination plant work is under

progress. I further state that none of the industries in the 2n respondent

industrial complex have dug any individual bore well in their premises

and only the 2nd respondent is supplying water and catering the needs to

all the industries for the land allotted by them. I further submit that 152 Corrected Copy

most of the pharma & pesticide industries have gone for zero liquid

discharge and had reduced their water intake. 179. I submit that the 2nd respondent is supplying drinking water to

the nearby villages by tanker loads on daily basis. The industries had

also installed RO water systems in the following villages namely

Vairankuppam, Thatchan Colony, Semankuppam, Semmankuppam

Colony, Sangolikuppam, Eachankadu, Kudikadu and Thaikal Thoni

Thurai in three panchayats. I further submit that M/s. Solara Active

Pharma is supplying drinking water by tanker loads to the Kudikadu

Colony. There are to numbers of RO plant installation is under progress

in Sangolikuppam Meenavar Street, Sangolikuppam Colony and

Semmankuppam Village. The 2nd respondent has not received any

complaint of water shortage from the local village public up to this date. 180. I submit that the 2nd respondent and its industries Association

had drilled bore well at Sedapalayam village panchayat and providing

pipeline from the bore well to Sangolikuppam village & Semmankuppam

Village to supply drinking water and the or is under process. I submit

that the entire villages around he S IPC OT Industrial Complex at

Cuddalore have been benefited by this respondent. The petitioners being

few villagers, cannot be an aggrieved party since they enjoys the benefit

of safe drinking water supplied by this respondent along with the people

of their village. The attitude of the applicant is only to fish out

information and create trouble to the existing industries in the industrial

complex and as such there is neither public interest or environmental

issue involved it eh above O.A. The report of the joint committee is

absolutely or clearly state that with regard to the treatment of effluents

by the industries are very clear as such the grievance of the applicant is

answered. It is evident that the State has provided sufficient check and 153 Corrected Copy

balance effectively between the industries and the villagers and co

existence of industries and the life of the people in the villages have been

well maintained. As a lonely public, the applicants have come before this

Hon‟ble Tribunal with most unclean hand and the intention is only to

threaten the industries or create trouble to the industries so that the job

opportunities and market of the manufactured products mainly

pharmacy products prevalent in that region goes to other States and

Countries. 181. In the above circumstances, taking note of the fact that there is

no effluent untreated by this respondent and any of the industries in the

industrial complex and the fact that this respondent is supplying water

regularly without affecting the ground water level to all the neighbouring

villages under the scheme is to protect the industries ad he livelihood of

the villagers and is done only as a method of welfare State and the

applicants have got no right to interfere in the welfare measure created

by the State. 182. It is also to be noted that as per the instruction of District

Administration, 2nd respondent and the industries have jointly put lot of

efforts and implemented desilting projects throughout the District in

order to maintain the water table. The approximate total volume of

desilting done in various water bodies by the S IPC OT industries in

surrounding villages of Cuddalore District is 1,00,000 M3 at a cost of

Rs.133.lakhs. 183. It is submitted that all the grievances raised in the application

have been answered and therefore the application field deserves no

merits. It is prayed that this Hon‟ble Tribunal may be pleased to dismiss

the above application." 154 Corrected Copy 184. The fifth respondent filed reply to the response submitted by

the applicant to the Joint Committee report which reads as follows: 185. It is submitted that the claim of the applicant that continuous

water pollution is being caused by industries in S IPC OT is purely

baseless and unscientific. Cuddalore S IPC OT is pioneer in implementing

zero liquid discharge facility for the factories situated at their location.

Around 20 years back, i.e., January, 2000, a common effluent discharge

facility viz., CUSECS was established to discharge the treated effluent to

deep sea where he dilution is 1000 times. All the 14 major industries in

S IPC OT have zero liquid discharge facility and the waste water generated

is treated and reused in their process. All other industries are treating 155 Corrected Copy

their effluent as per the Marine standards and discharge through

common effluent HDPE pipe line at a distance of 1 KM away from the

high tide line. M/s. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd is having their own marine

discharge facility for the Desal reject and uses the same for discharging

the treated effluent into sea. TNPCB officials have taken surprise

samples from various industries and marine discharge points in order to

ensure the quality of the treatment system With this, it is clear that

there is no possibility of discharging untreated water to the ground by

any of the industries and therefore the claim by the applicant is false and

without any basis. 186. It is submitted that S IPC OT is drawing water from confined

aquifer through deep bore well to supply water to the member industries.

This source is well below the ground water table mentioned by the

applicant and which is separated from unconfined aquifers by an

impermeable layer. Unconfined aquifers are those into which water

seeps from the ground surface directly above the aquifer. Confined

aquifers are those in which an impermeable dirt/rock layer exists that

prevents water from keeping into the aquifer from the ground surface

located directly above. Further to this, all the industries are taking

effective water conservation measures with guidance of TNPCB and the

water consumption shows a reducing trend year by year. So the decline

of ground water is not attributable to any industrial activity. The decline

in the ground water table mentioned in the New Indian Express and

relied upon by the applicant does not mention the cause to be any

industrial activity. 187. In so far as the industries are concerned, they are treating their

trade effluent generated to the best standards available, economic

viability and comply with the standards prescribed by TNPCB from time 156 Corrected Copy

to time Some of the major industries had gone for zero liquid discharge

system and they are not letting out any effluent. Industries which are

generating trade effluent treat their effluent to the bet standards

available and discharge through dedicated individual HDPE pipelines

and discharge into CUSECS for marine disposal. S IPC OT is drawing

water and supplying to the industries. S IPC OT has been drawing water

from the deep aquifer layer. S IPC OT is supplying water to the industries

for the last 35 years and there is no decline in ground water level either

in quality or in quantity. None of the industries are discharging their

treated effluent/untreated effluent on the ground. So there is no

question of ground water pollution by the industries. 188. It is submitted that already TNPCB & CPC B have conducted three

inspections at various times and collected water samples, raw effluent,

treated effluent and inspected the industries and the report have been

submitted to this Hon‟ble Tribunal. It must be stated that the industries

are not contributing to any water pollution so as to damage ground

water/soil in the surrounding area at any time CEPI moratorium was

imposed in Cuddalore S IPC OT industries during January 2010. Short

term and long term action plan were prepared by the Tamil Nadu

Pollution Control Board to monitor and improve the quality of air and

water environment and steps were taken to implement the action plan by

the industries. The moratorium has been lifted on 15th February 2011 in

8 more critically polluted areas based on recommendations received from the CPC B. These are: Ludiana (Punjab), Varanasi - Mirzapur (UP), Agra

(UP), Bhavnagar (Gujarat), Cuddalore (Tamil Nadu), Dombivalli

(Maharashtra), Aurangabad (Maharashtra) and Navi-Mumbai

(Maharashtra). It is submitted that none of the industries located in the

S IPC OT Industrial Complex are using Cadmium, Chromium, Lead and 157 Corrected Copy

Nickel as raw material or as finished products and this has been state in

the affidavit filed by the industries association in 2015 itself. The joint

committee comprising of CPC B & TNPCB had inspected the units and

submitted the report to this Hon‟ble Tribunal as per the prevailing

guidelines and the report does not state that any of the industries are

using the above chemicals as raw material or any such chemical comes

out as a finished product. 189. It is submitted that S IPC OT is supplying sufficient drinking water

by tanker loads to the surrounding villages near S IPC OT. Industries have

also provided RO plant in the surrounding villages of S IPC OT such as

Vairankuppam, Thatchan colony, Semmankuppam, Sangolikuppam,

Eachankadu, Kudikadu, Pachiankuppam ad photographic evidence is

available for the same. It is important to note that no complaint has

been made by the local body regarding the water supply to these local

villages. Only NGOs with vested interest are making false complaints

with an ulterior motive. Recently, as per the order of this Hon‟ble

Tribunal, the Joint Committee comprising of CPC B & TNPCB had

inspected the units and the effluent treatment system and collected

samples of raw effluent and final treated effluent and submitted the

report of analysis to this Hon‟ble Tribunal as per the guidelines laid. 190. It is submitted that already TNPCB & CPC B has conducted three

inspections at various times and collected water samples raw effluent,

treated effluent and inspected the industries and submitted their report

to this Hon‟ble Tribunal. None of the industries located in the S IPC OT

industrial complex are using Cadmium, Chromium Lead and Nickel as

raw material or as finished products and this has been stated in our

affidavit file during the year 2015. 158 Corrected Copy

„ 191. Regarding the complaint of non compliance with TOR by the joint

inspection committee it is submitted that already joint inspection

committee comprising of TNPCB & CPC B had conducted three

inspections at various times and collected water samples, raw effluent,

treated effluent and inspected the industries and submitted their report.

None of the industries located in the S IPC O industrial complex are using

Cadmium, Chromium, Lead and Nickel as raw material or as finished

products and this has been stated in our affidavit filed during the year

2015. TNPCB had not given prior notice of inspection to the industries

and inspection carried out without intimation. Only the applicants were

informed and to be present during the industries inspection, and three

applicants were present all the time during joint inspection. The

industries always maintain the housekeeping and operate full fledged

ETP operation at all times. The industries were in operation as per the

marketing demand/constraints and raw material availability. It is a

natural phenomenon that all the industries will not be operating 365

days a year. 192. As regards the allegation regarding failure to take ground water

samples from surrounding villages or not doing cumulative impact

assessment, it is submitted that already ground water samples had been

collected and analysis report of the same has been submitted to the

Hon‟ble Tribunal. The applicant had informed that 5 units were not in

operation during the time of joint committee inspection. M/s Tanfac

Industries was not in operation during the time of inspection and the

industry had informed to TNPCB vide Lr.dt. Nov. 2017. M/s. Crimsun

organics had obtained consent to operate recently from TNPCB but the

unit is operating only on pilot scale. As regards M/s. Covetro India Pvt.

Ltd., due to low market demand, the unit is operating approximately 15 159 Corrected Copy

days a month and letter was submitted to TNPCB As regards M/s.

Kawman Pharma, based on the market demand and order, the unit

operate intermediately. Regarding M/s. Golden Fish, due to rough

weather fish catchment is poor, and the unit could not get fish, so the

unit was not in operation. 193. As regards the remark on ZLD system being ineffective and in

poor condition, it is submitted that in all the industries Multiple Effect

Evaporator are in operation as per the supplier technical specifications

It is submitted that the principle underlying the MEE operation is

evaporating the effluent under vacuum in different stages and the

separate the water in vapour form which is then condensed as water and

reused in the plant operations. The concentrated effluent is further

dried in mechanical drier and the salt is collected is sent to TSDF,

Gummidipoondi. Since the plant is operated in different stages the grab

samples may not represent the right characteristics of the sample.

Further, the efficiency of the MEE is decided by percentage reduction of

TDS in condensate when compared with feed TDS rather than the

percentage of TDS concentrate. The industries explained this to the

TNPCB and as directed by the Board lr.dt. 23.1.2020, the industries

engaged an external lab approved by MoEF and NABL. The samples were

taken as composite sample for an 8 hour duration and a detailed report

has been submitted. The report shows that percentage reduction of TDS

in condensate is more than 90% all the cases. Hence from the above

report it is clear that the ZLD system is working efficiently as per the

specification. In Multiple effect Evaporator the effluent is evaporated and

the condensate is collected for further reuse and the concerted residue is

further treated in a drier. The dry salt generated from the drier is send

to Tamil Nadu Waste Management Ltd. Gummidipoondi - TSDF approved 160 Corrected Copy

by TNPCB. Hence there is no question of heavy metal contamination

arising at all. The generation and disposal of the salt is monitored by

TNPCB through hazardous waste manifest and all the records are

submitted by the industries to TNPCB as per the records are submitted

by the industries to TRNPCB as per the HWM Rule 2016. The presence of

iron, copper, nickel and zinc in MEE concentrate are collected as power

are baggage, stored and sent to TSF at Gummidipoondi for disposal. So

there is no question of presence of any heavy metals as alleged. From

the statement by the applicant itself it is clear that presence of heavy

metals are in traces and within the prescribed limit. Therefore, when all

the parameter are well within the limits, the question of cumulative

assessment does not arise. 194. Regarding the CEPI SCORE, it is submitted that CPC B has

authorized a third party to conduct survey and collect samples. Third

party had conducted air survey at four locations water quality at four

locations and surface water at four locations. They have collected water

samples in the Uppanar which will have high TDS chlorides and

Sulphates. It is preferable that CPC B authorized third party ought to

have collected water samples in lakes or ponds or river water, so the

parameters will be normal and CEPI ranking will be below 40. Recently

TNPCB has conducted a parallel survey with reputed agencies and it is

understood that the CEPI score was found well below 35. 195. Regarding Zero Liquid System Performance Study, it is submitted

that Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board had issued letters to individual

ZLD units to study the performance of Multiple Effect Evaporator and

submit the report. Based on the letter issued to ZLD units, Cuddalore

S IPC OT Industries Association took the study collectively ad engaged

M/s. Glens Innovations Labs Pvt Ltd. Chennai to carry out the study on 161 Corrected Copy

the ZLD units and to submit a detailed report on the performance of

Multiple Effect Evaporator System in the ZLD units and to submit a

detailed report on the performance of Multiple Effect Evaporator system

in the ZLD units. Based on the work order issued to M/s. Glens

Innovations Labs Pvt. Ltd, Chennai conducted a thorough study on the

ZLD units and submitted a report. The copy of the report is produced as

an annexure to this rejoinder. To summarize it is submitted that all the

industries in S IPC OT are operating their units within the prescribed

regulations laid down by TNPCB at all time. It is therefore prayed that

the Hon‟ble Tribunal may be pleased to dismiss Application No.34/2015

as devoid of merits." 196. They have also produced the report prepared by Glens

Innovations Labs Pvt Ltd., Chennai regarding the efficiency of Multiple

Effect Evaporator Efficiency Study of Cuddalore Industries to show that

the multiple effect evaporator efficiency system adopted by them are

effective. 197. Heard Mr. Ritwick Dutta, learned counsel for the applicant. Mr.

C. Kasirajan through Ms. Kothai Muthu Meenal, counsel for the first

respondent, Mr. Sriram representing Mr. Ramesh Venkatachalapathy,

counsel for the second respondent, Mrs. Jayalakshmi, representing Mr.

D. Ekambaram, counsel for the third respondent, Dr. V.R.

Thirunarayanan for fourth respondent and Mr. K.S. Viswanathan,

counsel for the fifth respondent. 198. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that

the application was filed in the year 2015 alleging that the water quality

in S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore is highly polluted, having

certain heavy metals like Cadmium, Nickel, Iron Manganese, Lead etc 162 Corrected Copy

and earlier on the basis of the Pollution Index prepared by the Central

Pollution Control Board, this area was declared as one of the Critically

Polluted Area out of 43 such industrial clusters identified by the Central

Pollution Control Board and certain directions were given. On the basis

of that, moratorium for starting new industries and expansion of the

existing industries, was imposed by the MoEF & CC and thereafter due

to certain improvements, the same was lifted and an action plan was

directed to be prepared and the industries were directed to implement

the same and directed the Pollution Control Board to monitor and submit

reports regarding the improvements to consider the question of lifting of

moratorium either partially or totally. It is on the basis of the report of

the Pollution Control Board, later it was lifted. The learned counsel also

submitted that on the basis of the report of the Pollution Control Board

and also the newspaper report, the Hon‟ble Madras High Court had

taken suo motu proceedings in which the present applicants were also

joined and the Hon‟ble Madras High Court, after considering the

pleadings and reports submitted by the Pollution Control Board,

disposed of the matter, directing the Pollution Control Board to conduct

periodical monitoring and take action against the industries which was

not complying with the pollution norms. The learned counsel also

argued that the various reports submitted by the Pollution Control Board

and the Joint Committee appointed by this Tribunal will also go to show

that though there was some improvement but it was not effective and the

contamination of water in those areas still continue. However, the Joint

Committee has come to the conclusion that none of the industries were

using Nickel, Chromium or Lead or Cadmium as raw material. Further,

the report submitted by the Joint Committee will go to show that the

Multiple Effect Evaporators used by the industries were not upto the 163 Corrected Copy

mark and they require improvement. The learned counsel also argued

that the Committee has not complied with the directions issued by this

Tribunal by order dated 8.7.2019. The Committee also did not conduct

the scope of health hazards in that area and they have not conducted

any cumulative study of the effect of pollution of water on account of the

functioning of the industries in that area. They did not also trace out the

source of contamination containing heavy metals like Cadmium,

Chromium etc., though in some of the samples heavy metals were

present both inside and outside the S IPC OT Industrial Complex.

According to the learned counsel, applying the „polluter pays‟ principle,

the industries are bound to do the remediation work to make the water

quality potable in that area and till then they will have to supply drinking

water to the people of the locality. He has also contended that though

there were complaints regarding health problem on account of the

pollution caused in that area, no such study was conducted to ascertain

the reason for such health problem in that area. So the learned counsel

also submitted that the Committee has not considered the efficiency of

the RO system provided by them in some of the villages for meeting the

drinking water needs and how the waste water that is being discharged

from the RO system are being utilised and what are all the heavy metals

that are present has not been mentioned. So the learned counsel

submitted that the following reliefs will have to be granted to the

applicant which reads as follows: 199. The learned counsel for the applicant also relied on the decisions

reported in A.P. POLLUTION CONTROL BOARD V. PROF. M.V. NAYUDU

(RETD) AND OTHERS ( 1999) 2 SCC 718, HOSPITALITY ASSOCISATION

OF MUDUMALAI VS. IN DEFENCE OF ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMALS &

OTHERS ( 2020) 10 SCC 589, HIMACHAL PRADESH BUS STAND

MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT V. CENTRAL EMPOWERED

COMMITTEE & OTHERS 2021 SCC Online SC 15 in support of his

submission. 200. The learned counsel appearing for the second respondent

submitted that the S IPC OT Industrial Estate was established long ago 165 Corrected Copy

and all necessary precautions have been taken by the industries to avoid

pollution and that is being properly monitored by the second respondent

Corporation as well. Though there were certain deficiencies found during

2011- 2014, on the basis of the action plan prepared by the Pollution

Control Board, the probable polluting industries have implemented the

recommendations of the Pollution Control Board and they are not

discharging any trade effluents generated within the industrial complex

into the ground, as all the industries are having their own Zero Liquid

Discharge System and they are using the water that is being discharged

as effluents without letting the same into the ground either into drain or

in the water body. Further, the trade effluents that has been generated

by some of the industries are being collected by STP and after treatment

discharging the same into the Bay of Bengal. So it cannot be said that

the industries were responsible for any contamination of water in that

area. Since the committee report shows that none of the industries were

using Lead, Magnesium or Chromium, Cadmium, Nickel as raw material,

they cannot be mulcted with the liability for the presence of heavy metals

in the ground water. The learned counsel also submitted that they are

committed to protect environment and all necessary steps have been

taken for that purpose and they are spending huge amount as Corporate

Social Responsibility to meet the needs of the people, including drinking

water being supplied, considering the quality of water in that area. Since

none of the industries were responsible for any particular type of

pollution, they cannot be mulcted with the liability of payment of

environmental compensation, applying the principle of „polluter pays‟. So

the learned counsel submitted that there is no necessity for any further

direction to be issued and if at all, the same periodical monitoring can be 166 Corrected Copy

done by the Pollution Control Board to resolve the issue whenever such

pollution is being detected by them. 201. The learned counsel appearing for the Pollution Control Board

submitted that none of the industries were discharging the trade

effluents into the drain or water body and regular monitoring is being

done by them and whenever any deficiency is found, they used to take

action against the industries and they will abide by any of the directions

of this Tribunal in this regard. 202. The learned counsel appearing for the fourth respondent

submitted that the State Government is taking all necessary precautions

to avoid pollution being caused on account of the operation of the

industries in S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore and other complex.

They are ready to abide by any direction of this Tribunal to improve the

situation, if required and even prepared to take study as per the

directions of this Tribunal. 203. The learned counsel appearing for the fifth respondent

submitted that the attempt of the applicant to enhance the scope of the

litigation attempted to show that there is water contamination caused on

account of the operation of the units in S IPC OT Industrial Complex,

Cuddalore. In fact, the report of the Joint Committee will go to show that

none of the industries were letting the trade effluents generated either

into the ground or drain or water body so as to make them responsible

for any ground water contamination. Further, the Joint Committee

report also will go to show that none of the industries were using any of

the heavy metals found in the ground water analysis as raw material and

as such they cannot be held responsible for the alleged contamination of

the presence of the heavy metals mentioned in the report. Further, huge 167 Corrected Copy

amounts have been spent by the industries on the basis of the directions

issued by the Pollution Control Board as part of the action plan prepared

by them as directed by the MoEF & CC and Central Pollution Control

Board will serve the online index that is being found on the basis of

analysis of air and water during the earlier days and on account of the

implementation of the directions and the action plan by the industries

improvement has been caused in that area and it cannot be treated as a

critically polluted area inspite of the fact that all the industries were

operating in that area. Since the Committee has come to the conclusion

that there is no degradation caused and there is no necessity for

imposing environmental compensation, there is no necessity for

appointing any fresh committee to go into the issue except directing the

Pollution Control Board to monitor the functioning of the units and take

action against the erring units if there is any violation found. The

grievance of the applicant has been considered by the Madras High Court

in the writ petition mentioned by the applicant and came to the

conclusion that none of the reliefs claimed by the applicants who were

arrayed as respondents 14 to 16 in that writ petition cannot be granted

and rejected their contention that no more expansion or new industries

are allowed to be started in the industrial complex and the Hon‟ble High

Court had only directed the Pollution Control Board to conduct periodical

inspection and take appropriate action against the industries, if any

violation is found except the direction that no more further direction or

study need be conducted as claimed by the counsel for the applicant and

he prayed for dismissal of the application. 204. The points that arise for consideration are: 168 205. This Tribunal felt that, before going to the merits of the case, the

precedents on this aspect can be considered. In the decision reported in

SUBHASH KUMAR VS.STATE OF BIHAR AND OTHERS (1991 SCC 598),

the Hon‟ble Apex Court held that the right to life is a fundamental

right Under Article 21 of the Constitution and it includes the right

of enjoyment of pollution free water and air for full enjoyment of life.

If anything endangers or impairs that quality of life in derogation of

laws, a citizen has right to have recourse to Article 32 of the

Constitution for removing the pollution of water or air which may be

detrimental to the quality of life. A petition Under Article 32 for the 169 Corrected Copy

prevention of pollution is maintainable at the instance of affected

persons or even by a group of social workers or journalists. 206. In the decision reported in VELLORE CITIZENS VS. UNION OF

INDIA & OTHERS (1996 (5) SCC 647) the Apex Court has considered the

concept of sustainable development precautionary principle and inter

generational equity and also the responsibility of the Government both

Central and State to protect environment under the provisions of the Environment Protection Act, 1986 and observed as follows: Apart from the constitutional mandate to protect and improve the environment
there are plenty of post independence legislations on the subject but more relevant
enactments for our purpose are: The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution
Act 1974 (the Water Act ), The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (the Air Act) and the Environment Protection Act 1986 (the Environment Act ). The
Water Act provides for the constitution of the Central Pollution Control Board by
the Central Government and the constitution of one State Pollution Control
boards by various State Governments in the country. The Boards function under
the control of the Governments concerned. The Water Act prohibits the use or
streams and wells for disposal of polluting matters. Also provides for restrictions 171 Corrected Copy

on outlets and discharge of effluents without obtaining consent from the Board.
Prosecution and penalties have been provided which include sentence of
imprisonment. The Air Act provides that the Central Pollution Control Board and
the State Pollution Control Boards constituted under the later Act shall also
perform the powers and functions under the Air Act . The main function of the
Boards, under the Air Act , is to improve the quality of the air and to prevent.
control and abate air pollution in the country. We shall deal with the Environment
Act in the later part of this judgement. 14. In view of the above mentioned constitutional and statutory provisions
we have no hesitation in holding that the precautionary principle and the polluter
pays pcinciple are part of the environmental law of the country. 15. Even otherwise once these principles are accepted as part of the
Customary International Law there would be no difficultly in accepting them as
part of the domestic law. It is almost accepted proposition of law that the rule of
Customary International Law which are not contrary to the municipal law shall be
deemed to have been incorporated in the domestic law and shall be followed by
the Courts of Law. To support we may refer to Justice H.R. Khanna's opinion in
Addl. Distt. Magistrate Jabalpur vs Shivakant Shukla (AIR 1976 SC 1207) Jolly
George Varghese's case (AIR 1980 SC 470) and Gramophone Company's case
(AIR 1984 SC 667). 16. The Constitutional and statutory provision protect a persons right to
fresh air, clean water and pollution free environment, but the source of the right is
the inalienable common law right of clean environment. It would be useful to
quote a paragraph from Blackstone's commentaries on the Laws of England
(Commentaries on the Laws of England of Sir Willian Blackstone) Vol.III, fourth
edition published in 1876. Chapter XIII, "Of Nuisance" depicts the law on the
subject in the following words : 17. Our legal system having been founded on the British Common law the
right of a person to pollution free environment is a part of the basic jurisprudence
of the land. 18. The Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Environment Act, inter
alia, states as under : Sections 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 and 8 of the Environment Act which are relevant are as under : Corrected Copy (vi) laying down procedures and safeguards for the prevention of accidents which
may cause environmental pollution and remedial measures for such accidents; (vii) lying down procedures and safeguards for the handling of hazardous
substances; (viii) examination of such manufacturing processes, materials and substances as
are likely to cause environmental pollution; (ix) carrying out and sponsoring investigations and research relating to problems
of environmental pollution; (x) Inspection of any premises, plant, equipment, machinery, manufacturing or
other processes, material or substances and giving, by order, of such direction to
such authorities, officers or persons as it may consider necessary to take steps for
the prevention, control and abatement of environmental pollution; (xi) establishment or recognition or environmental laboratories and institutes to
carry out the functions entrusted to such environmental laboratories and institutes
under this Act; (xii) collection and dissemination of information in respect of matters relating to
environmental pollution; (xiii) preparation of manuals, codes or guides relating to the prevention, control
and abatement of environmental pollution; (xiv) such other matters as the Central Government deems necessary or expedient
for the purpose of securing the effective implementation of the provisions of this
Act. (3) The Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or expedient so to do
for the purposes of this Act, by order, published in the powers and functions
(including the power to issue directions under Section 5 ) of the Central
Government under this act and for taking measures with respect to such of the
matters referred to in sub-section (2) as may be mentioned in the order and
subject to the supervision and control of the Central government and the
provisions of such order, such authority or authorities may exercise the powers or
perform the functions or take the measures so mentioned in the order as if such
authority or authorities had been empowered by this Act to exercise those powers
or perform those functions or take such measures. 4. Appointment or officers and their powers and functions (1) without prejudice to
the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 3 , the Central Government may appoint
officers with such designations as it thinks fit for the purposes of this Act and may
entrust to them such of the powers and functions under this Act as it may deem fit.
(2) The officers appointed under sub-section (1) shall be subject to the general
control and direction of the Central Government or, if so directed by that
Government, also of the authority or authorities, if any, constituted under sub-
section (3) of section 3 of any other authority or officer". 5. Power to give directions. - Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
but subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, in the
exercise of its powers and performance of its functions under this Act, issue
direction in writing to any person, officer or any authority and such person,
officer or authority shall be bound to comply with such directions.
Explanation. - for the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that the power to
issue directions under this section includes the power to direct --- (a) the closure, prohibition or regulation of any industry, operation or process; or (b) stoppage or regulation of the supply of electricity or water or any other
service. 7. Persons carrying on industry, operation etc. not to allow emission or discharge
of environmental pollutants in excess of the standards. No. person carrying on any 174 Corrected Copy

industry, operation or process shall discharge or emit or permit to be discharged
or emitted any environmental pollutant in excess of such standards as may be
prescribed. 8. Persons handling hazardous substances to comply with procedural safeguards. - No person shall handle or cause to be handled any hazardous substance except
in accordance with such procedure end after complying with such safeguards as
may be prescribed". 19. Rule 3(1), 3(2), and 5(1) of the Environment (Protection) Rules 1986
(the Rules) are as under: 20. It is thus obvious that the Environment Act contains useful provisions
for controlling pollution. The main purpose of the Act is to create an authority or
authorities under Section 3(3) of the Act with adequate powers to control pollution
and protect the environment. It is a pity that till date no authority has been
constituted by the Central Government. The work which is required to be done by 175 Corrected Copy

 an authority in terms of Section 3(3) read with other provision of the Act is being
 done by this Court and the other Courts in the country. It is high time that the
 Central Government realises its responsibility and statutory duty to protect the
 degrading environment in the country. If the conditions in the five districts of
 Tamil Nadu, where tanneries are operating, are permitted to continue then in the
 near future all rivers/canals shall be polluted, underground waters contaminated,
 agricultural lands turned barren and the residents of the area exposed to serious
 diseases. lt is, therefore, necessary for this Court to direct the Central Government
 to take immediate action under the provisions of the Environment Act . 207. In the decision reported in DR. B.L. WADEHRA VS. UINION OF

INDIA AND OTHERS (1996) 2 SCC 594, the Apex Court had considered

the responsibility of the Government and the Local Bodies to protect

environment, including the responsibility of disposal of garbage and

waste generated within their Municipality. The non availability of funds,

inadequacy or inefficiency of staff, insufficiency of machinery etc cannot

be pleaded as grounds for non performance of their statutory obligations. 208. In MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, RATLAM V. VARDICHAN (1980) 4

SCC 162, the question before the Apex Court was whether the order of

the Trial Court as upheld by the Hon‟ble High Court, directing the

Ratlam Municipality to draft a plan within six months for the removal of

nuisance caused by the open drains and public excretion by the nearby

slum dwellers and held that it could be sustained. The Apex Court

speaking through Krishna Iyer, J dismissed the appeal of the

municipality and held as under: 209. In the decision reported in A.P. POLLUTION CONTROL BOARD

V.L PROF. M.V. NAYUDU (Retd) & ORS (1999) 2 SCC 718 the Apex Court

has considered the burden of proof to the environmental studies and

observed that reversal of the burden of proof based on precautionary

principle should be that the onus of proof must be on the person who

want to change the status quo and discussed as follows: 4, No. 1, P 1) commented upon the problem of increasing
specialisation in environmental law and on the difficulty of the
Courts, in their present form, moving beyond their traditional role of
detached "Wednesbury" review. He pointed out the need for a Court
or Tribunal. having a general responsibility for overseeing and
enforcing the safeguards provided for the protection of the
environment.... The Tribunal could be granted a wider discretion to
determine its procedure so that it was able to bring to bear its
specialist experience of environmental issues in the most effective
way. Lord Woolf pointed out the need for: a multi-faceted, multi-skilled
body which would combine the services provided by existing Courts,
Tribunals and Inspectors in the 23-02-2021 (Page 6 of 17) www.manupatra.com Library
Principal Bench
environmental field. It would be a 'one stop shop', which should lead
to faster, cheaper and the more effective resolution of disputes in
the environmental area. It would avoid increasing the load on
already over burdened lay institutions by trying to compel them to
resolve issues with which they are not designed to deal. It could be
a forumin which the Judges could play a different role. A role which
enabledthem not to examine environmental problems with limited
vision. It could however be based on our existing experience,
combining the skills of the existing inspectorate, the Land Tribunal
and other administrative bodies. It could be an exciting project.
According to Lord Woolf, "while environmental law is now clearly a
permanent feature of the legal scene, it still lacks clear boundaries."
It might be 'preferable that the boundaries are left to be established
by Judicial decision as the law developed. After all, the great
strength of the English Law has been its pragmatic
approach".Further, where urgent decisions are required, there are
often no easy options for preserving the status quo pending the
resolution of the dispute. If the project is allowed to go ahead, there
may be irreparable damage to the environment; if it is stopped, 178 Corrected Copy

there may be irreparable damage to an important economic interest.
(See Environment Enforcement: The need for a specialised court -
by Robert Cranworth QC (Jour of Planning & Environment, 1992 p,
798 at 806). Robert Cranworth advocates the constitution of a
unified tribunal with a simple procedure which looks to the need of
customers, which takes the form of a Court or an expert panel, the
allocation of a procedure adopted to the needs of each case - which
would operate at two levels -first tier by a single Judge or technical
person and a review by a panel of experts presided over by a High
Court Judge - and not limited to Wednesbury' grounds. 25. In the USA the position is not different. It is accepted that when
the adversary process yields conflicting testimony on complicated
and unfamiliar issues and the participants cannot fully understand
the nature of the dispute, Courts may not be competent to make
reasoned and principled decisions. Concern over this problem led
the Carnegie Commission of Science & Technology (1993) and the
Government to undertake a study of the problems of science and
technology in Judicial decision making. In the introduction to its final
report, the Commission concluded: The Courts' ability to handle
complex science- rich cases has recently been called into -
question, with widespread allegations that the Judicial system is
increasingly unable to manage and adjudicate science and
technology (S&T) issues. Critics have objected that Judges cannot
make appropriate decisions because they lack technical training,
that the Jurors do not comprehend the complexity of the evidence
they are supposed to analyze, and that the expert witnesses on
whom the system relies are mercenaries whose biased testimony
frequently produces erroneous and inconsistent determinations. If
these claims go unanswered, or are not dealt with, confidence in the
Judiciary will be undermined as the public becomes convinced that
the Courts as now constituted are incapable of correctly resolving
some of the more pressing legal issues of our day. The uncertain
nature of scientific opinions: 2 8 . The inadequacies of science result from identification of
adverse effects of a hazard and then working backwards to find the
causes. Secondly, clinical tests are performed, particularly where
toxins are involved, on animals and not on humans, that is to say,
are based on animals studies or short-term cell testing. Thirdly
conclusions based on epidemiological studies are flawed by the
scientist's inability to control or even accurately assess past
exposure of the subjects. Moreover, these studies do not permit the
scientist to isolate the effects of the substance of concern. The
latency period of many carcinogens and other toxins exacerbates
problems of later interpretation. The timing between exposure and
observable effect creates intolerable delays before regulation
occurs. (See Scientific Uncertainly in Protective Environmental
Decision making - by Alyson C. Flournay (Vol. 15) 1991 Harv. Envtt.
Law Review P.327 at 333-335). 29. It is the above uncertainty of science in the environmental
context, that has led International Conferences to formulate new
legal theories and rules of evidence. We shall presently refer to
them. The Precautionary Principle and the new Burden of Proof -
The Vellore Case: 30. The 'uncertainty' of scientific proof and its changing frontiers
from time to time has led to great changes in environmental
concepts during the period between the Stockholm Conference of
1972 and the Rio Conference of 1992. In Vellore Citizens' Welfare
Forum v. Union of India and Ors. MANU/SC/0686/1996 : 31. The Vellore judgment has referred to these principles briefly but,
in our view, it is necessary to explain their meaning in more detail,
so that Courts and tribunals or environmental authorities can
properly apply the said principles in the matters which come before
them. The precautionary Principle replaces the Assimilative
Capacity principle: Envtt. L. Rev. (1998) P. 509 at (p. 547) says: There is nothing to
prevent decision makers from assessing the record and concluding
there is inadequate information on which to reach a determination. If
it is not possible to make a decision with "some" confidence, then it
makes sense to err on the side of caution and prevent activities that
may cause serious or irreversible harm. An informed decision 23-02-
2021 (Page 9 of 17) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
can be made at a later stage when additional data is available or
resources permit further research. To ensure that greater caution is
taken in environmental management, implementation of the
principle through Judicial and legislative means is necessary. In
other words, inadequacies of science is the real basis that has led
to the precautionary principle of 1982. It is based on the theory that
it is better to err on the side of caution and prevent environmental
harm which may indeed become irreversible. 34. The principle of precaution involves the anticipation of
environmental harm and taking measures to avoid it or to choose
the least environmentally harmful activity. It is based on scientific
uncertainty. Environmental protection should not only aim at
protecting health, property and economic interest but also protect
the environment for its own sake. Precautionary duties must not 181 Corrected Copy

only be triggered by the suspicion of concrete danger but also by
(Justified) concern or risk potential. The precautionary principle was
recommended by the UNEP Governing Council (1989). The
Bomako Convention also lowered the threshold at which scientific
evidence might require action by not referring to "serious" or
"irreversible" as adjectives qualifying harm. However, summing up
the legal status of the precautionary principle, onecommentator
characterised the principle as still "evolving" for though it is
accepted as part of the international customary law, "the
consequences of its application in any potential situation will be
influenced by the circumstances of each case". (See First Report of
Dr. Sreenivasa Rao Pemmaraju, Special - Rapporteur, International
Law Commission dated 3.4.1998 paras 61 to 72). The Special
Burden of Proof in Environmental cases: 35. We shall next elaborate the new concept of burden of proof
referred to in the Vellore case at p. 658 MANU/SC/0686/1996 : They are to discharge this burden by showing the absence of a
'reasonable ecological or medical concern. That is the required
standard of proof. The result would be that if insufficient evidence is
presented by them to alleviate concern about the level of 182 Corrected Copy

 uncertainty, then the presumption should operate in favour of
 environmental protection. Such a presumption has been applied in
 AshburtonAcclimatization Society v. Federated Fanners of New
 Zealand [1988] 1 NZLR 78. The required standard now is that the
 risk of harm to the environment or to human health is to be decided
 in public interest, according to a 'reasonable persons' test. (See
 Precautionary Principle in Australia by Charmian Barton) (Vol. 22)
 (1988) Harv. Env. L. Rev. 509 at 549). Brief Survey of Judicial and
 technical inputs in environmental appellate authorities/tribunals: MANU/SC/0032/1999 : [1999]1SCR235 ). 47. The mining operation is hazardous in, nature, it impairs
ecology and people's right of natural resources. The entire process
of setting up and functioning of mining operation require utmost
good faith and honesty on the part of the intending entrepreneur.
For carrying on any mining activity close to township which has
tendency to degrade environment and are likely to effect air water
and soil and impair the qualify of life or inhabitants of the area,
there would be greater responsibility on the part of the
entrepreneur. The fullest disclosures including the potential for
increased burdens on the environment consequent upon possible
increase in the quantum and degree of pollution, has to be made
at the outset so that public and all those concerned including
authorities may decide whether the permission can at all be 185 Corrected Copy

 granted for carrying on mining activity. The regulatory authorities
 have to act with utmost care in ensuring compliance of safeguards,
 norms and standards to be observed by such entrepreneurs.
 When questioned, the regulatory authorities have to show that the
 said authorities acted in the manner enjoined upon them. Where
 the regulatory authorities, either connive or act negligently by not
 taking prompt action to prevent, avoid or control the damage to
 environment, natural resources and peoples' life, health and
 property, the principles of accountability for restoration and
 compensation have to be applied. 48. The development and the protection of environments are not
 enemies, if without degrading the environment or minimising
 adverse effects thereupon by applying stringent safeguards, it is
 possible to carry on development activity applying the principles of
 sustainable development, in that eventuality, the development has
 to go on because one cannot lose sight of the need for
 development of industries, irrigation resources and power projects
 etc. including the need to improve employment opportunities and
 the generation of revenue. A balance has to be struck. We may
 note that to stall fast the depletion of forest, series of orders have
 been passed by this Court in T.N. Godavarman 's case regulating
 the felling of trees in all the forests in the country. Principle 15 of
 Rio Conference of 1992 relating to the applicability of
 precautionary principle which stipulates that where there are
 threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific
 certainty shall not be used as 23-02-2021 (Page 40 of 55) www.manupatra.com Library
 Principal Bench a reason for proposing effective measures to prevent
 environmental degradation is also required to be kept in view. In
 such matters, many a times, the option to be adopted is not very
 easy or in a straight jacket. If an activity is allowed to go ahead,
 there may be irreparable damage to the environment and if it is
 stopped, there may be irreparable damage to economic interest. In
 case of doubt, however, protection of environment would have
 precedence over the economic interest. Precautionary principle
 retires anticipatory action to be taken to prevent harm. The harm
 can be prevented even on a reasonable suspicion. It is not always
 necessary that there should be direct evidence of harm to the
 environment. Considering the question of imposing environmental
 compensation for causing pollution and environmental degradation
 observed as follows: para 8 to 12 212. In the decision reported in INTELLECTUALS FORUM, TIRUPATHI

VS. STATE OF A.P & ORS (2006) 3 SCC 549, the Apex court has

considered the question regarding the protection of water body and the

responsibility of the State on this aspect as follows: Both development and environment should go hand in hand, in other
words, there should not be development at the cost of environment
and vice versa, but there should be development while taking due
care and ensuring the protection of the environment. The concept of
sustainable development also finds support in the decisions of this
Court in the cases M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (Taj Trapezium
Case) (1997) 2 SCC 653, State of Himachal Pradesh v. Ganesh
Wood Products MANU/SC/0038/1996 : AIR1996SC149 andN
armada Bachao Andolan v. Union of India MANU/SC/0206/2005 : Public Trust Doctrine 23-02-2021 (Page 17 of 23) www.manupatra.com Library Principal
Bench 59. Another legal doctrine that is relevant to this matter is the
Doctrine of Public Trust. This doctrine, though in existence from
Roman times, was enunciated in its modern form by the US Supreme
Court in Illinois Central Railroad Company v.People of the State
of Illinois (1892) 146 US 537 where the Court held: The bed or soil
of navigable waters is held by the people of the State in their
character as sovereign, in trust for public uses for which they are
adapted. [...] the state holds the title to the bed of navigable waters
upon a public trust, and no alienation or disposition of such property
by the State, which does not recognize and is not in execution of this
trust is permissible. What this doctrine says therefore is that natural
resources, which includes lakes, are held by the State as a "trustee"
of the public, and can be disposed of only in a manner that is
consistent with the nature of such a trust. Though this doctrine
existed in the Roman and English Law, it related to specific types of
resources. The US Courts have expanded and given the doctrine its
contemporary shape whereby it encompasses the entire spectrum of
the environment. 60. The doctrine, in its present form, was incorporated as a part of
Indian law by this Court in the case of M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath (supra) and also in M.I. Builders v . Radhey Shyam Sahu
MANU/SC/0999/1999 :[ 1999]3SCR1066 . In M.C. Mehta, Kuldip
Singh J., writing for the majority held: [our legal system] includes the
public trust doctrine as part of its
jurisprudence. The state is the trustee of all natural resources which
are by nature meant for public use and enjoyment. [...] The state as a
trustee is under the legal duty to protect the natural resources. [Para
22]
The Supreme Court of California, in the case of National Audubon
Society v. Superior Court of Alpine Country 33 Cal.419 also
known as the Mono Lake case summed up the substance of the
doctrine. The Court said: Thus the public trust is more than an
affirmation of state power to use public property for public purposes.
It is an affirmation of the duty of the State to protect the people's
common heritage of streams, lakes, marshlands and tidelands.,
surrendering the right only in those rare cases when the
abandonment of the right is consistent with the purposes of the trust
This is an articulation of the doctrine from the angle of the affirmative
duties of the State with regard to public trust. Formulated from a
negatory angle, the doctrine does not exactly prohibit the alienation of
the property held as a public trust. However, when the state holds a
resource that is freely available for the use of the public, it provides
for a high degree of judicial scrutiny upon any action of the
Government, no matter how consistent with the existing legislations,
that attempts to restrict such free use. To properly scrutinize such
actions of the Government, the Courts must make a distinction 189 Corrected Copy

between the government's general obligation to act for the public
benefit, and the special, more demanding obligation which it may
have as a trustee of certain public resources, [Joseph L. Sax "The
public Trust Doctrine in Natural Resource Law: Effective Judicial
Intervention", Michigan Law Review, Vol.68 No. 3 (Jan.1970) PP 471- 566)]. According to Prof. Sax, whose article on this subject is
considered to be an authority, three types of restrictions on
governmental authority are often thought to imposed by 23-02-2021 (Page
18 of 23) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench the public trust doctrine [ibid]: In the instant case, it seems, that the Government Orders, as they
stand now, are violative of principles 1 and 3, even if we overlook
principle 2 on the basis of the fact that the Government is itself
developing it rather than transferring it to a third party for value.
Therefore, our order should try to rectify these defects along with
following the principle of sustainable development as discussed
above. 61. Further the principle of "Inter-Generational Equity" has also been
adopted while determining cases involving environmental issues. This
Court in the case of A.P. Pollution Control Board v. Prof. M.V.
Nayudu and Ors. MANU/SC/0032/1999 : [1999]1SCR235 held as
under: 02-2021 (Page 19 of 23) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
to apply these principles in making laws and further these two articles
are to be kept in mind in understanding the scope and purport of the
fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution including Articles
14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India and also the various laws
enacted by the Parliament and the State Legislature. 64. On the other hand, we cannot also shut our eyes that shelter is
one of the basic human needs just next to food and clothing. Need for
a National Housing and Habitat Policy emerges from the growing
requirements of shelter and related infrastructure. These
requirements are growing in the context of rapid pace of urbanization,
increasing migration from rural to urban centers in search of
livelihood, mis-match between demand and supply of sites and
services at affordable cost and inability of most new and poorer urban
settlers to access formal land markets in urban areas due to high
costs and their own lower incomes, leading to a non-sustainable
situation. This policy intends to promote sustainable development of
habitat in the country, with a view to ensure equitable supply of land,
shelter and services at affordable prices. 65. The World has reached a level of growth in the 21st Century as
never before envisaged. While the crisis of economic growth is still
on, the key question which often arises and the Courts are asked to
adjudicate upon is whether economic growth can supersede the
concern for environmental protection and whether sustainable
development which can be achieved only by way of protecting the
environment and conserving the natural resources for the benefit of
the humanity and future generations could be ignored in the garb of
economic growth or compelling human necessity. The growth and
development process are terms without any content, without an
inkling as to the substance of their end results. This inevitably leaves
us to the conception of growth and development which sustains from
one generation to the next in order to secure 'our common future'. In
pursuit of development, focus has to be on sustainability of
development and policies towards that end have to be earnestly
formulated and sincerely observed. As Prof. Weiss puts it,
"conservation, however, always takes a back seat in times of
economic stress." It is now an accepted social principle that all
human beings have a fundamental right to a healthy environment,
commensurate with their well being, coupled with a corresponding
duty of ensuring that resources are conserved and preserved in such
a way that present as well as the future generations are aware of
them equally. The Parliament has considerably responded to the call
of the Nations for conservation of environment and natural resources
and enacted suitable laws. 191 Corrected Copy 66. The Judicial Wing of the country, more particularly, this Court has
 laid down a plethora of decisions asserting the need for
 environmental protection and conservation of natural resources. The
 environmental protection and conservation of natural resources has
 been given a status of a fundamental right and brought under Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. This apart, the Directive Principles of
 State Policy as also the fundamental duties enshrined in Part IV and
 Part IVA of the Constitution of India respectively also stresses the
 need to protect and improve the natural environment including the
 forests, lakes, rivers and wild-life and to have compassion for living
 creatures. 67. This Court in Dahanu Taluka Environmental Protection Group
 and Ors. v. Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. and
 Ors. MANU/SC/0574/1991 : (1991)2SCC539 held that the concerned
 Government should "consider the importance of public projects for
 the betterment of the conditions of living people on one hand and the
 necessity for preservation of social and ecological balance and
 avoidance of 23-02-2021 (Page 20 of 23) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
 deforestation and maintenance of purity of the atmosphere and water
 free from pollution on the other in the light of various factual, technical
 and other aspects that may be brought to its notice by various bodies
 of laymen, experts and public workers and strike a balance between
 the two conflicting objectives." 213. In the decision reported in INDIAN COUNCIL FOR ENVIRO LEGAL

ACTION V. UNION O INDIA & ORS (1996) 5 SCC 281, the Apex Court

considered the validity of Coastal Regulation Zone Notification 1991 as

amended in 1994 and reiterated the responsibility of the State Government

to protect environment and strike a balance between development and

environment as part sustainable development considering the economic

development but without compromising the necessity for protecting

environment. 214. In the decision reported in HIMACHAL PRADESH BUS STAND

MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY V. CENTRAL

EMPOWERED COMMITTEE & ORS (2021 SCC OnLine SC 15) the Apex

Court has considered the scope of environment protection, powers of the

National Green Tribunal and the role of courts in protecting environment

involving a new environmental jurisprudence and observed as follows: 192 The Rule of law postulates a law which is answerable to constitutional
norms. The law in that sense is accountable as much as it is capable of
exacting compliance. Rule by the law on the other hand can mean Rule by
a despotic law. It is to maintain the just quality of the law and its
observance of reason that Rule of law precepts in constitutional
democracies rest on constitutional foundations. A Rule of law framework
encompasses Rules of law but it does much more than that. It embodies
matters of substance and process. It dwells on the institutions which
provide the are of governance. By focussing on the structural norms which
guide institutional decision making, Rule of law frameworks recognise the
vital role played by institutions and the serious consequences of leaving
undefined the norms and processes by which they are constituted,
composed and governed. A modern Rule of law framework is hence
comprehensive in its sweep and ambit. It recognises that liberty and
equality are the focal point of a just system of governance and without
which human dignity can be subverted by administrative discretion and
absolute power. Rule of law then dwells beyond a compendium which
sanctifies Rules of law. Its elements comprise of substantive principles,
processual guarantees and institutional safeguards that are designed to
ensure responsive, accountable and sensitive governance. 47. The environmental Rule of law, at a certain level, is a facet of the
concept of the Rule of law. But it includes specific features that are unique
to environmental governance, features which are sui generis. The
environmental Rule of law seeks to create essential tools - conceptual,
procedural and institutional to bring structure to 23-02-2021 (Page 18 of 26)
www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
the discourse on environmental protection. It does so to enhance our
understanding of environmental challenges - of how they have been
shaped by humanity's interface with nature in the past, how they continue
to be affected by its engagement with nature in the present and the
prospects for the future, if we were not to radically alter the course of
destruction which humanity's actions have charted. The environmental
Rule of law seeks to facilitate a multi- disciplinary analysis of the nature and
consequences of carbon footprints and in doing so it brings a shared
understanding between science, regulatory decisions and policy
perspectives in the field of environmental protection. It recognises that the
'law' element in the environmental Rule of law does not make the concept
peculiarly the preserve of lawyers and judges. On the contrary, it seeks to
draw within the fold all stakeholders in formulating strategies to deal with
current challenges posed by environmental degradation, climate change
and the destruction of habitats. The environmental Rule of law seeks a 193 Corrected Copy

unified understanding of these concepts. There are significant linkages
between concepts such as sustainable development, the polluter pays
principle and the trust doctrine. The universe of nature is indivisible and
integrated. The state of the environment in one part of the earth affects and
is fundamentally affected by what occurs in another part. Every element of
the environment shares a symbiotic relationship with the others. It is this
inseparable bond and connect which the environmental Rule of law seeks
to explore and understand in order to find solutions to the pressing
problems which threaten the existence of humanity. The environmental
Rule of law is founded on the need to understand the consequences of our
actions going beyond local, state and national boundaries. The rise in the
oceans threatens not just maritime communities. The rise in temperatures,
dilution of glaciers and growing desertification have consequences which
go beyond the communities and creatures whose habitats are threatened.
They affect the future survival of the entire eco-system. The environmental
Rule of law attempts to weave an understanding of the connections in the
natural environment which make the issue of survival a unified challenge
which confronts human societies everywhere. It seeks to build on
experiential learnings of the past to formulate principles which must
become the building pillars of environmental Regulation in the present and
future. The environmental Rule of law recognises the overlap between and seeks
to amalgamate scientific learning, legal principle and policy intervention.
Significantly, it brings attention to the rules, processes and norms followed
by institutions which provide regulatory governance on the environment. In
doing so, it fosters a regime of open, accountable and transparent decision
making on concerns of the environment. It fosters the importance of
participatory governance - of the value in giving a voice to those who are
most affected by environmental policies and public projects. The structural
design of the environmental Rule of law composes of substantive,
procedural and institutional elements. The tools of analysis go beyond legal
concepts. The result of the framework is more than just the sum total of its
parts. Together, the elements which it embodies aspire to safeguard the
bounties of nature against existential threats. For it is founded on the
universal recognition that the future of human existence depends on how
we conserve, protect and regenerate the environment today. 48. In its decision in Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India (supra),
this Court, speaking through one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) recognized
the importance of protecting the environmental Rule of law. The court
observed: 02-2021 (Page 19 of 26) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
enabling factor which ensures the health of our ecosystem. 143. Since the Stockholm Conference, there has been a dramatic
expansion in environmental laws and institutions across the globe. In many
instances, these laws and institutions have helped to slow down or reverse
environmental degradation. However, this progress is also accompanied,
by a growing understanding that there is a considerable implementation
gap between the requirements of environmental laws and their
implementation and enforcement -- both in developed and developing
countries alike ... 194 Corrected Copy 156. The Rule of law requires a regime which has effective, accountable
and transparent institutions. Responsive, inclusive, participatory and
representative decision making are key ingredients to the Rule of law.
Public access to information is, in similar terms, fundamental to the
preservation of the Rule of law. In a domestic context, environmental
governance that is founded on the Rule of law emerges from the values of
our Constitution. The health of the environment is key to preserving the
right to life as a constitutionally recognised value Under Article 21 of the
Constitution. Proper structures for environmental decision making find
expression in the guarantee against arbitrary action and the affirmative duty
of fair treatment Under Article 14 of the Constitution.
4 9 . In its first global report on environmental Rule of law in January 2019,
the United Nations Environment Programme ("UNEP") has presciently
stated4: If human society is to stay within the bounds of critical ecological
thresholds, it is imperative that environmental laws are widely understood,
respected, and enforced and the benefits of environmental protection are
enjoyed by people and the planet. Environmental Rule of law offers a
framework for addressing the gap between environmental laws on the
books and in practice and is key to achieving the Sustainable Development
Goals. Successful implementation of environmental law depends on the
ability to quickly and efficiently resolve environmental disputes and punish
environmental violations. Providing environmental adjudicators and
enforcers with the tools that allow them to respond to environmental
matters flexibly, transparently, and meaningfully is a critical building block
of environmental Rule of law. 50. The need to adjudicate disputes over environmental harm within a Rule
of law framework is rooted in a principled commitment to ensure fidelity to
the legal framework regulating environmental protection in a manner that
transcends a caseby- case adjudication. Before this mode of analysis
gained acceptance, we faced a situation in which, despite the existence of
environmental legislation on the statute books, there was an absence of a
set of overarching judicially recognized principles that could inform
environmental adjudication in a manner that was stable, certain and
predictable. In an Article in the Asia-Pacific Journal of Environmental Law
(2014), Bruce Pardy describes this conundrum in the following terms5: 51. However, even while using the framework of an environmental Rule of
law, the difficulty we face is this - when adjudicating bodies are called on to
adjudicate on environmental infractions, the precise harm that has taken
place is often not susceptible to concrete quantification. While the
framework provides valuable guidance in relation to the principles to be 195 Corrected Copy

kept in mind while adjudicating upon environmental disputes, it does not
provide clear pathways to determine the harm caused in multifarious
factual situations that fall for judicial consideration. The determination of
such harm requires access to scientific data which is often times difficult to
come by in individual situations. 5 2 . In an Article in the Georgetown Environmental Law Review (2020),
Arnold Kreilhuber and Angela Kariuki explain the manner in which the
environmental Rule of law seeks to resolve this imbroglio6: One of the main
distinctions between environmental Rule of law and other areas of law is
the need to make decisions to protect human health and the environment in
the face of uncertainty and data gaps. Instead of being paralyzed into
inaction, careful documentation of the state of knowledge and uncertainties
allows the regulated community, stakeholders, and other institutions to
more fully understand why certain decisions were made. The point,
therefore, is simply this - the environmental Rule of law calls on us, as
judges, to marshal the knowledge emerging from the record, limited though
it may sometimes be, to respond in a stern and decisive fashion to
violations of environmental law. We cannot be stupefied into inaction by not
having access to complete details about the manner in which an
environmental law violation has occurred or its full implications. Instead, the
framework, acknowledging the imperfect world that we inhabit, provides a
roadmap to deal with environmental law violations, an absence of clear
evidence of consequences notwithstanding. 53. In the case before us, it is not possible for us to determine in
quantifiable terms the exact effect of the construction of the Hotel-cum-
Restaurant structure by the Appellant and the second Respondent on the
ecology of the area. Both of them have tried to argue that the number of
trees felled by them, in the case of the present construction, is what it
would have been, had they only built a bus stand and a parking space.
However, what we can record a determination on is the way in which the
Appellant and second Respondent have gone about achieving this object.
Specifically, the parties have engaged in the construction without
complying with the plans drawn by the Appellant's third-party consultants,
which were agreed to by them 23-02-2021 (Page 21 of 26) www.manupatra.com Library Principal
Bench
in the RFP. The construction proceeded even when the TCP Department
tried to halt it, refusing to approve its plans. Even the post facto refusal by
the MOEF for changing the nature of the diverted forest land was not
enough to stop the parties. Ultimately, when they were forced to halt the
construction by the CEC, they proceeded with it under the guise of an order
of this Court which permitted only legal construction. A combination of
these circumstances highlights not only conduct oblivious of the
environmental consequences of their actions, but an active disdain for them
in favour of commercial benefits. While the second Respondent was a
private entity, they were actively supported in these efforts by the
Appellant. Hence, it is painfully clear that their actions stand in violation of
the environmental Rule of law. Whatever else the environmental Rule of
law may mean, it surely means that construction of this sort cannot receive
our endorsement, no matter what its economic benefits may be. A lack of
scientific certainty is no ground to imperil the environment.
 Role of courts in ensuring environmental protection
5 4 . In a recent decision of this Court in Bengaluru Development Authority
v. Sudhakar Hegde , this Court, speaking through one of us (D.Y.
Chandrachud, J.) held: in Section 2(1)(m) of the NGT Act, the learned Tribunal can examine and
decide the question of violation of any specific statutory environmental
obligation, which affects or is likely to affect a group of individuals, or the
community at large. 43. For exercise of power Under Section 14 of the NGT Act, a substantial
question of law should be involved including any legal right to environment
and such question should arise out of implementation of the specified
enactments. 44. Violation of any specific statutory environmental obligation gives rise to
a substantial question of law and not just statutory obligations under the
enactments specified in Schedule I. However, the question must arise out
of implementation of one or more of the enactments specified in Schedule
I. 215. So it is clear from this that court has always had a

responsibility to protect environment while considering the question

of sustainable development and wherever it is necessary and when 199 Corrected Copy

it is found that there were pollution caused on account of certain

industrial activities or other activities which were established as

part of improving economic development, applying the principle of

„sustainable development and if any pollution has been caused on

account of their activity to any water body or affecting the quality of

air and water, then courts have got power to apply the „polluter

pays‟ principle and impose environmental compensation and even

direct remedial measures to be taken to restore the damage caused

to environment, applying the reverse burden of proof on the persons

who are responsible for contributing to the pollution and making

them liable for such expenses incurred for restoring the damage

caused to environment. The Apex Court has also considered the

question of duty and responsibility of the State Government to

protect environment as part of life as enshrined under Article 21 of

the Constitution of India and protecting environment, providing

clean water and air. It is also a constitutional obligation under Article 48-A and 51-A(g) of the Constitution of India and also on the

basis of the powers under the provisions of the Environment

(Protection) Act 1986 and the National Green Tribunal has also got

the power to issue certain directions, applying the „precautionary‟

principle to restore the damage caused to environment, apart from

imposing environmental compensation against the persons who

were responsible for the probability of causing pollution on account

of their activity without strict proof of such cause being contributed

by the particular industry or activity of the alleged violator as 200 Corrected Copy

contemplated under Section 14 , 15 and 20 of the National Green

Tribunal Act, 2010. 216. With these principles in mind, the case in hand has to be

considered. It is an admitted fact that the second respondent

Corporation was constituted for the purpose of promoting industrial

development in the State of Tamil Nadu and in discharging their

object of forming such Corporations, they were establishing

industrial complexes in several parts of the State and one such

industrial complex was established in Cuddalore by Phase - I and

Phase - II, housing textile processing, pharmaceuticals, dye

chemicals, pesticides and other industries. This complex is located

8 kms south of Cuddalore Town on the seaward side of the

Cuddalore - Chidambaram Highways, stretching from

Pachaiyankuppam in the north to Sonanchavadi in the south. It is

also an admitted fact that that it is one of the critically/severely

polluted industrial cluster, identified by the Central Pollution

Control Board. In the year 2004, a study was conducted regarding

the pollution that is being caused on account of the emission that is

being discharged from the industrial units in Cuddalore District

and it was found to be critically polluted industrial cluster. There

was a newspaper report published in „The Hindu‟ regarding this

aspect, projecting S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore as

critically air polluted city affecting the health of the people. It is an

admitted fact that on the basis of the newspaper report a suo motu

case was registered by the Hon‟ble Madras High Court as 201 Corrected Copy

W.P.No.27241 of 2004 and the Madras High Court disposed of the

matter by judgment dated 29.8.2012 as follows: from industries in S IPC OT. The effluent is said to be forwarded
 through a network of pipelines and sumps to the sea off the coast of
 Rasapettai village. Initially 19 industries registered 27-02-2021 (Page 2 of 8)
 www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
 as members of CUSECS; currently, only 8 industries are members.
 They are: Thereafter, R. 17 to R.21
came forward to file implead petitions and the said petitions having
been allowed on 27-02-2021 (Page 3 of 8) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
20.10.2010, they have come on record as party respondents.
8 . It is the strong case of CUSECS Ltd. that their member companies
are not using any VOC chemical and that CUSECS is transferring and
discharging the treated effluent received from its member industries
into the sea about 1 km. away from the seashore through HDP
pipeline with end point fitted with specially designed diffuser which
dispense the treated effluent in all the directions simultaneously to
provide very quick dilution and within a very short time the effluent 203 Corrected Copy

reaches harmless state at the point of discharge itself and as a
consequence of the same, the effluent discharged into the sea is
absolutely harmless to marine flora, fauna and aquatic life and have
requested to permit them to commence their operation. 9. It is seen from the records that the National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has conducted a study in
August, 2007 at the S IPC OT area of Cuddalore and has filed a report
before this Court. This report pointed out the presence of VOCs. at
different locations including CUSECS, Alapakkam, Kudikadu,
Pachayankuppam, Karaikadu and Echangadu villages.
1 0 . In the year 2009, the Central Pollution Control Board and the
Ministry of Environment and Forests have conducted a study in
selective industrial clusters of the country to identify polluted industrial
clusters or areas in order to take concerted action and to centrally
monitor them at the National level to improve the current status of
their environmental components such as air and water quality data,
ecological damage and visual environmental conditions. For this, a
total of 88 industrial areas or clusters have been selected by the
Central Pollution Control Board in consultation with the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, Government of India, including Coimbatore,
Cuddalore, Erode, Manali, Mettur, Tiruppur and Vellore Industrial
areas in Tamil Nadu and brought out its report in the month of
December, 2009. 1 1 . This report found that there are 43 industrial areas/clusters out of
88 to be critically polluted with respect to one or more environmental
component and such critically polluted areas include the Cuddalore
S IPC OT area. Following this report, the Ministry of environment and
Forests, Government of India, imposed a moratorium on 43 industrial
clusters, including Cuddalore S IPC OT area, requiring the Tamil
NaduPollution Control Board to monitor the situation by initiating time-
bound action plans for improving the environmental quality in those
industrial clusters/areas. Even though the initial order of moratorium
was till August 2010, for Cuddalore it was extended till 31.10.2010
due to delay in finalizing the action plans. Later, on 26.10.2010, the
Ministry of Environment and Forest, Government of India further
extended its moratorium on setting up new industries or expansion of
existing units
in Cuddalore till March, 2011. Thereafter, the said moratorium was
lifted on 15.2.1011 by the Government of India, based on the
information provided by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and
the Central Pollution Control Board to Ministry of Environment and
Forest that the revised action plans submitted by the respective
SPCBs have been reviewed and approved by them and that the
implementation of the action plan has been initiated. This action of the
Government - in lifting the moratorium - came under strong criticism
by SACEM, requesting to impose further moratorium on expansion of
existing facility and setting up of new units in S IPC OT Cuddalore.
SACEM, has based this request on a critique (prepared in April, 2011)
of TNPCB's action plan for Cuddalore, which formed the basis for
lifting of the moratorium. 27-02-2021 (Page 4 of 8) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
1 2 . In this background, since from the year 2007, the year in which
NEERI has conducted a study in this area, there are lot of changes
with some industries acquiring 'zero discharge' and some industries 204 Corrected Copy

closing down for various reasons and to have information with regard
to the latest position in the area, this Court, by the order dated
18.11.2010, has directed NEERI to inspect the area with regard to the
extent of air and water pollution (alleged to have been) caused by the
respondents 4 to 13 and 17 to 23 and the industries mentioned in
Chapter III, page 3.1 of the final report filed by NEERI in August 2007
and submit a report to this Court, after giving opportunity to the
industries as well as their counsel. To carry on this study, this Court,
vide order dated 22.12.2010, has directed respondents 4 to 11 and 17
to 23 to deposit a sum of Rs. 1 lakh each to the credit of NEERI,
Chennai within a period of one week. 13. Accordingly, a five member team, constituted by the Director,
NEERI inspected the industries/R-4 to R.11 and R.17 to R.23 in
S IPC OT, Cuddalore and submitted its report in April, 2011. In this
report, NEERI has focussed on ground water quality of surrounding
villages, surface water quality, marine disposal site, ambient air quality
and VOC in industries premises. In this report, NEERI has stated that
hysicochemical characteristics of some of the bore wells water in
S IPC OT area do not conform to the limits prescribed for drinking
water purpose with respect to turbidity, TDS and total hardness. On
the whole, it can be concluded that the impact of industrial emissions
from S IPC OT Industries, uddalore on ambient air quality is within
limits as compared to ambient air quality standards with respect to
PM10, PM2.5, SO2, NOx and NH3. Concentrations of five HAPs.
namely Acrolein, Benzene, Formaldehyde, Acetaldehyde and
Propionaldehyde have been found to exceed
standard/screening/guideline values. 14. For better understanding, we re-produce hereunder the
differences between the two reports submitted by NEERI in 2007 and
2011: 15. The above report of NEERI makes it clear that the quality of
ground water and river water do not conform to the prescribed
standards and some of the discharged effluents are within the
prescribed limits and some are not. Therefore, a question would arise
as to whether the respondent industries are to be blamed for such
falling standards in the quality of environment. 16. On the part of CUSECS, the above report of NEERI has been
commented as has no application to their member units. It has been
averred by this respondent that there is no possibility of VOCs from its
premises and hence no such test was being conducted in the
premises of the 21st respondent, even by the TNPCB as it is not
applicable to this respondent. It has further been stated that despite
this respondent is not emitting any air pollution, the sample taken from
the atmosphere situated in various places including the 21st
respondent premises, which has no manufacturing activity, have
shown excess to the standards prescribed by some foreign countries
viz. Ontario (Canada) and New Zealand in respect of Acrolein,
Formaldehyde, Acetaldehyde and Propionaldehyde; that there is no
standard prescribed by India, except Benzene; that the above referred
hazardous pollutants are mainly emerged as evaporative emissions
from un-burnt or partially unburnt hydro carbons mostly from vehicular
exhaust, fuel filling station, fuel adulteration, domestic firewood, 205 Corrected Copy

municipal waste, dumping etc; that NEERI has also taken a sample
test at the point S-11 viz. 27-02-2021 (Page 6 of 8) www.manupatra.com Library Principal Bench
Yogiram Inn, which is 13 km. away from the S IPC OT Industrial
complex; that the said reading of parameter itself is sufficient to
establish that the industrial emissions, if any, are not the cause for the
alleged excess of Acrolein, Benzene, Formaldehyde, Acetaldehyde
and Propionaldehyde; that the sources of atmosphere PAHs are both
natural and anthropogenic; that the natural sources are forest fire,
volcanic activities and bacterial decay of organic materials; that the
anthropogenic sources are industries, automobiles, combustion of
fossil fuels and households, municipal waste dumping etc.; that in fact,
the industries in the S IPC OT industrial complex are situated very near
to the highways and Cuddalore town municipal wastes are dumped in
the adjacent site to the S IPC OT industrial complex and the vehicular
exhaust, fire wood usage of villagers, municipal waste decay and
organic material decay are the main source of VOCs in the said
locality and therefore, according to this respondent, NEERI ought not
to have taken the standard prescribed for two countries situated in
both North and South Poles since the standard is more stringent than
any other country. 17. Be that as it may, the fact lies that CUSECS is not having the
necessary consents from the authorities concerned, except a 'No
Objection Certificate' from TNPCB, which has also been kept in
abeyance by TNPCB for the reason that CUSECS has not adhered to
the conditions attached thereto. When the very inception of CUSECS
is not in accordance with law, having no legal sanctity and further the
possibility of leakage through its pipeline cannot be ruled out (as no
clean chit has been given to CUSECS by TNPCB or any other
competent authority), we do not see any reason to lift the ban
imposed by us on the functioning of CUSECS. However, it is made
clear that if CUSECS complies with the required legal criteria by the
authorities concerned, like TNPCB, it is for the authorities concerned
to pass appropriate orders on the request of CUSECS. 18. There is some force in the contentions raised by some of the units
that they alone cannot be blamed for the pollution since there are
many adding factors like burning of garbage and vehicular traffic
contributing very much to the air pollution. In the absence of any
technical data provided before us by either NEERI or TNPCB to
distinguish or differentiate the pollution because of units or the other
factors, we are unable to either justify or reject the contentions raised
by such units that they cannot alone be blamed. However, being a
statutory body to maintain environment, the burden lies with the Tamil
Nadu Pollution Control Board and also the Central Pollution Control
Board to take all necessary steps to combat pollution, in any form it
may be, in the manner known to law. 19. Some of the impleaded units like respondents 6, 20 and 22 have
urged before us that their emissions are well within the prescribed
limits and even the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has either
given consent or renewed the consent granted to them and hence
they are not at all necessary parties to the present proceedings.
Materials have also been placed before us by the said units stating
that their emissions are within the prescribed limits and that no legal
action has been initiated against them by the authorities concerned. If 206 Corrected Copy

 that is the case, while appreciating such of the actions of the Units in
 taking all steps to combat pollution, we also direct the Tamil Nadu
 Pollution Control Board to continuous air monitoring, including for toxic
 gases of the units and if any violation is found, to take necessary legal
 action against the errant unit/units as per law. 20. Even with regard to the other units, where violations are reported,
 we direct the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to keep continuous
 air monitoring, including for 27-02-2021 (Page 7 of 8) www.manupatra.com Library Principal
 Bench
 toxic gases of the units in S IPC OT Cuddalore and take necessary and
 suitable legal action against any errant or default unit, as per law.
 Though a direction has been sought for on the part of respondents 14
 to 16 to completely ban on the setting up or expansion of any unit in
 the Cuddalore S IPC OT, we make it clear that such blanket orders
 cannot be passed by us since it is for the authorities like the Pollution
 Control Board and the Ministry of Environment and Forest to assess
 each individual case and grant or reject such permissions/renewals
 and all the units cannot be put together and branded as 'violators',
 without verifying the individual cases. Therefore, this request of the
 respondents 14 to 16 is rejected. 217. The additional respondents 14 to 16 in that case are the

present applicants and the prayer for closing down the industries in

Cuddalore Industrial Complex viz., S IPC OT was not accepted by

the High Court and the Hon‟ble High Court only directed the

Pollution Control Board to monitor the industrial activities in that

area and directed them to take action against the erring units

which are not complying with the norms in accordance with law. In

fact, that case was suo motu taken cognizance by the Hon‟ble High

Court purely on the basis of the pollution that has been projected in

the newspaper report published in „The Hindu" based on the report

prepared by S IPC OT Area Community Environmental Monitors

under the caption „Gas Trouble‟ Air Quality in S IPC OT, Cuddalore.

In that report it was found that as nearly as 22 toxic chemicals

were detected in the areas which were prone to cause severe

respiratory problem, skin, cardiac, kidney, reproductive system and

other diseases. The report was based on the situation prevailing 207 Corrected Copy

during 2004. It was, thereafter, that the present application has

been filed during 2015 alleging large scale water pollution in that

area. 218. It is also seen from the orders of this Tribunal that during

2014 a study was conducted in respect of the ground water quality

in S IPC OT Cuddalore on the basis of the analysis of the samples

taken by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and it was found

that the ground water in and around the industrial estate was

heavily contaminated including Cadmium and it was not suitable

for drinking or other purposes including human or cattle. 219. It was also considered by this Tribunal in the order

dated 7.9.2016 that 10 out of 11 locations where the samples were

taken and analysed showed that Cadmium level 5 to 128 above

permissible limit in the samples collected from S IPC OT Project

Office, 3 to 125 times above limits in samples collected from

Kudikadu over head tank, 3 to 130 times above limits in samples

collected from M/s. Tagros and it was 3 to 128 times above limits

in samples collected from the premises of M/s. Chemplast

Sanmar. The environment quality monitoring carried out by CPC B

during 2011 and 2013 showed that Mercury, Nickel, Manganese

and Iron level exceed the permissible limit at least in one or two

locations. The CPC B had requested all the Chief Secretaries of

States in which CPAs were located to constitute State Level

Committees under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary to ensure

regular review of implementation of Action Plans, thereby

preventing the degradation of environmental quality of the 208 Corrected Copy

Critically Polluted Areas. 220. After considering these aspects and also considering

the report submitted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board of

March, 2015 that though TDS, total hardness and Cadmium

exceeds the drinking water standards, none of the industries in

S IPC OT Industrial Complex were using Cadmium and Nickel as

raw material or as finished products, the Tribunal had directed

the Pollution Control Board to conduct further inspection and

submit the report. The fourth respondent was directed to make

arrangement for the supply of drinking water to the residents in

S IPC OT Industrial Complex area and directed to file a compliance

report in this regard. 221. Thereafter, this Tribunal had taken up the matter on

29.6.2019 and considered the report submitted by the Pollution

Control Board wherein it was mentioned that out of 27 samples

collected inside the S IPC OT Industrial complex, Cuddalore and

analysed, at least in 3 samples presence of Nickel, Lead and Iron

were in excess of prescribed parameters. But with regard to the

analysis of the samples taken from outside the S IPC OT Industrial

Complex as well as inside S IPC OT Industrial Complex, it was

stated that the parameters of Lead and Iron were commonly

present in excess of the prescribed standards. But the excess

presence of Nickel was not mentioned. So the District

Environmental Engineer was directed to file a fresh report. 222. Again it was taken up on 18.10.2016 and it was

ascertained from the report of the analysis that the borewell water 209 Corrected Copy

samples collected outside S IPC OT and inside S IPC OT and piezo

metric well water samples collected inside the premises of

industries revealed that the parameters of Lead and Iron were

commonly present in the water samples and were exceeding the

drinking water standards of accepted limit as prescribed in IS

10500:2012. The report of analysis of piezo metric well water

samples revealed that parameter of Nickel, Lead and Iron were

exceeded in 3 locations out of the 27 locations as per the drinking

water standards of acceptable limit prescribed. The report of the

analysis of Uppanar river water revealed presence of traces of

Lead. 223. Thereafter, as per order dated 1.2.2019, after

considering the pleadings and reports that were filed, this

Tribunal had constituted a Joint Committee representing the

Central Pollution Control Board and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control

Board to collect samples from the borewells and shallow aquifers,

peizo metric wells in and around S IPC OT Industrial Complex,

Cuddalore and Uppanar river and furnish a report. The

committee was also directed to ascertain the status of functioning

of ETPs or other effluent treatment devices used by the industries.

The committee was also directed to report as to how much

quantity of drinking water was supplied to the inhabitants. The

Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board was designated as the Nodal

Agency for coordination and compliance. The S IPC OT was

directed to increase the quantity of water having regard to the

needs of the inhabitants and viability of water availability and 210 Corrected Copy

posted the case for consideration of report. 224. This Tribunal has considered the report submitted by

the committee and the objections raised by the applicants on

8.7.2019. It is seen from the report that out of 28 samples taken

from the piezo metric wells situated within the industrial area, 9

were found exceeding the acceptable limit of TDS of 500 mg/L.

The concentration of calcium and Magnesium were found high

indicating high Calcium and Magnesium hardness in water while

the other parameters were found acceptable within limits of

standard of drinking water. The samples of inlet and outlets were

not taken and tested and the adequacy of the pollution control

devices examined and not mentioned about the excess ground

water extraction by the industries and whether the same were

drawn after obtaining necessary permission. So this Tribunal

directed the Joint Committee to analyse further aspects viz., (i) To take the samples from the inlet and outlet of all the ETPs

to ascertain as to whether the effluent are within the prescribed

limit; (ii) To ascertain the source of the heavy metal pollutants like

Nickel, Cadmium, Manganese, Iron and Lead etc;‟ (iii) To ascertain the adequacy of the pollution control devices

installed by the industry; (iv) After such tests, to assess he environmental compensation

to be paid by the individual units for the default on their part. (v) Further, this Tribunal also considered the fact that in the

year 2009 this Cuddalore Industrial area was declared as critically 211 Corrected Copy

 polluted area and an action plan for remediation was prepared

 and so directed the committee to ascertain as to whether the

 action has been implemented and if so whether there has been an

 improvement of the situation in the area. 225. The Joint Committee, as per order dated 1.2.2019 filed

 the report on 25.3.2019 which reads as follows: Preamble
In the matter of Application No. 184 of 2018 (Earlier OA No. 34/2015 (SZ)), Sri S. Pugazhendhi
& Ors. Vs Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board & Ors., the National Green Tribunal, Principal
Bench, New Delhi has passed an order dated 01st February, 2019 (Annexure - 1) and directed
that "Joint team comprising representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) and
the TNSPCB collect samples from Bore wells and Shallow aquifers, Piezo-metric wells in and
around S IPC OT industrial complex, Cuddalore and Uppanar River and furnish a report to this
tribunal within one month by e-mail at [email protected] .
The Committee may also ascertain the status of functioning of ETPs or other Effluent treatment
devices used by the industries. The Committee may also report as to how much quantity of
drinking water must be supplied to the inhabitants. The TNSPCB will be the nodal agency for co-
ordination and compliance". In compliance of above mentioned order, The Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control
Board, Chennai, constituted a Committee comprising the following officials from TNPCB and CPC B. The Committee members were communicated vide proceedings dated February 08, 2019
(Annexure - 2). i. Thiru. G. Gopalakrishnan, Joint Chief Environmental Engineer, TNPCB, HO,Chennai.
 ii. Thiru R. Seralathan, District Environmental Engineer, TNPCB, Cuddalore
 iii. Thiru.Sabapathy, Asst. Director, Adv.Env.Lab, TNPCB, H.O,Chennai.
 iv. Mrs. H.D. Varalaxmi, Scientist E /AD, CPC B, Regional Directorate, Bengaluru.
The Committee mutually decided to visit the site during February 21 - 22, 2019. Apart from the
above, Mr.P.Anantha Narayanan, AE,TNPCB, Cuddalore, Mr.Balasubramaniam and
Mr.Rajaraman, Environmental Scientists, Advanced Environmental Laboratory, TNPCB,
Cuddalore, Mr.S. Iqbal, Sr. Technician CPC B, and Mr.K.Indrakumar, representative of
Cuddalore S IPC OT Industries Association were also participated during the above inspection
and sample collections. 212 Corrected Copy

The S IPC OT industrial estate is located in between the East Coast road connecting Cuddalore-
Chidambaram and Bay of Bengal. This Estate is first formed as Phase I and extended as Phase II
and then extended as Phase III. Details of Joint Inspection. As per the Hon'ble NGT order, the Committee carried out following works: 4. Field Observations: inside the industries of S IPC OT Industrial Complex were used for only ground water
 monitoring purpose. Water samples were collected from the 26 Piezo-metric wells of
 the industries at an average depth of 6 Meters. b. Bore wells located inside the S IPC OT Complex:Water samples are collected from 5
 number of bore wells located inside the S IPC OT industrial complex in which 3
 borewells are located inside 2 industries which is used for their industrial purposes.
 Remaining 2 bore wells are located in public places which are used for domestic
 purposes by the village people. b. Bore wells located outside the S IPC OT (surrounding villages): Water samples
 were also collected from 7 number of Bore wells located outside the S IPC OT which
 are used for domestic purposes by the inhabitants of the villages. The details of
 sample locations are tabulated in Annexure -3. c. Uppanar River: The Uppanar River starts in Cuddalore at (Lat - 11°43'N; Long -
 79°46'E) 180 KM South of Chennai and 25 km South of Pondicherry. The river flows
 towards north and passes adjacent to S IPC OT Industrial Estate and finally
 Confluences with the Bay of Bengal in Cuddalore (Old Town) through a mouth of
 Gadilam River. The flow of Uppanar River mostly consist of back water of sea during
 tidal flows, and storm water confluences during rainy season in the upstream of river
 Uppanar. Due to the flow of sea water into Uppanar River, the water is saline and 213 Corrected Copy

 hence the Uppanar river water is not used for domestic purposes. Two water samples
 were collected from the upstream and downstream side of the Uppanar River.
 Maps showing the locations of Samples Collected from Peizometric/ Bore wells
 inside and outside the S IPC OT complex. Peizo metric wells inside the S IPC OT complex
 Bore wells Inside the S IPC OT
 Bore well outside the S IPC OT
 ii. Inspection of Industries carried out in S IPC OT: S IPC OT Industrial Complex
 Cuddalore consists of 45 numbers of industries, out of which 5 industries belongs to
 17 category, 29 industries are under red category, 7 industries are orange category
 and 4 industries aregreen category. The joint team inspected 26 industries located
 inside the S IPC OT industrial complex to ascertain the status of functioning of ETPs
 or other effluent devices used by the industries. Out of the remaining 19 industries 3
 units were not in operation and 16 were not generating trade effluent from their
 process. The details of the industries and its status of functioning of ETP with its online
 continuous effluent monitoring devices are presented in Annexure - 4a & 4b.
 iii. Inhabitants in and around S IPC OT: The Uppanar River is located on the Eastern
 side of S IPC OT Industrial Estate. The Pachayankuppam village is located on the
 Northern side of the S IPC OT Estate.Kudikadu, Sangolikuppam, Semmankuppam,
 Poondiyankuppam are located within the S IPC OT Estate. These four panchayats
 comprises of 17 Villages. The details of name of the villages, it's population, drinking
 water requirements and the existing drinking water supply schemes to these villages
 are tabulated in Annexure - 5. The map showing the locations of the villages and Uppanar River is as below; Map showing the villages and Uppanar River 5. Monitoring Results & Discussions and other specific observations : 6 Solid L
 s@
 180°
 C
 Chlor m 240 190 210 205 180 170 185 115 195 115 180 130 140 610 120 220 115
 ide as g
7 Cl /
 L

 Sulph m 116 150 120 164 145 120 130 68 147 32 80 68 80 252 38 130 16
 ate as g
8 SO4 /
 L

 Fluor m <M 0.2 <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3
 ide as g DL 35 DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL 72 95 78 43 55 89
9 F /
 L

 Total m <M <M <M <M <M 0.1 <M 0.1 <M <M <M 0.3 <M <M <M 0.1 <M
 Phos g DL DL DL DL DL 11 DL 36 DL DL DL 3 DL DL DL 93 DL
1 phate /
0 as
 L
 PO4
 Total m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 Resid g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
1 ual /
1 Chlor
 L
 ine
 Total m 268 284 560 184 100 96 136 204 44 68 64 48 136 184 136 276 148
 Alkal g
1 inity /
2 as
 L
 CaC
 O3
 Phen m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 ophth g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
 alein /
1 Alkal
 L
3 inity
 as
 CaC
 O3
 Calci m 76. 56. 72. 92. 104 22. 12. 36. 64. 40. 44. 76. 8.0 120 16. 12. 24.
 um as g 15 11 14 18 .21 44 02 07 13 08 09 15 2 .24 03 02 05
1 Ca / 4 L

 Magn m 9.7 24. 2.4 29. 24. 4.8 2.4 29. 12. 2.4 29. 43. 14. 143 26. 14. 21.
1 esium g 2 3 3 16 3 6 3 16 15 3 16 71 58 .37 73 58 87
5 as /
 Mg 216 Corrected Copy

 L

 Nitrit m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 e g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
 Nitro / 1 gen
6 L
 as
 NO2-
 N
 Nitrat m 1.1 1.2 1.9 1.7 1.7 2.3 2.4 1.9 10. 2.7 1.5 1.2 2.8 3.5 2.2 1.5 1.9 e g 3 2 4 9 2 6 7 5 35 2 6 2 6 2 9 4 Nitro / 1 gen
7 L
 as
 NO3-
 N
 Free m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 Amm g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
1 onia
8 /
 as
 L
 NH3
 Copp m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 er as g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
1 Cu / 9 L

 Zinc m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 as Zn g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL 2 / 0 L

 Lead m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 as Pb g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL 2 / 1 L

 Total m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 Chro g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
2 mium /
2 as Cr
 L

 Cadm m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 ium g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
2 as Cd / 3 L

 Nicke m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 l as g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
2 Ni / 4 L

 Iron m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M 0.2 <M 3.8 0.2 <M <M <M <M 0.3 <M
 as Fe g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL 94 DL 22 7 DL DL DL DL 58 DL 2 / 5 L

 Sulfi m <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M <M
 de as g DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL DL
2 S / 6 L

  From the above table, it is observed that out of 28 samples from piezometric wells, 9
 samples were found exceeding the acceptable limit of TDS of 500 mg/L. The TDS
 concentration in samples taken from piezometric well nos. SIP 2G ( Inside premises of
 M/s Covestro India Ltd.,) and SIP 37 G ( Inside premises of M/s Topknit Mill) and were
 found very high ( 1652 & 1800 mg/L). In these two samples Chloride and Sulphate
 concentration also found high. 217 Corrected Copy

  The concentration of calcium and magnesium found high in samples taken from
 piezometric wells no. SIP 2G & SIP 37 G which indicates the high calcium and
 magnesium hardness in water.  Other parameters were found within acceptable limit of drinking water standards in all
 piezometric wells. Table 2 : Report of Analysis of the Borewells collected inside S IPC OT

 Report of Analysis of Bore Well collected on 21.02.2019 and 22.02.2019.  From the above Table, Out of 6 samples taken from Bore wells , 2 samples ( SIP 3 G &
 14 G) were reported high concentration of TDS and Chloride.
  Other parameters were found within prescribed standards for acceptable limit of drinking
 water standards. Table 3: Report of Analysis of the Borewells collected outside S IPC OT
 Sl. No. Parameters Unit Sample Code No.

 SIP-7G SIP-31G SIP-32G SIP-33G
 Color Physical Colourless Colourless Colourless Colourless 1 observation
 Odour Physical Un- Un- Un- Un-  From the above table, out of 4 samples, the TDS concentration in two samples
 taken from bore well no SIP 7G & 31 G was found exceeding the acceptable
 standards of 500 mg/L. The concertation of Chloride also found exceeding the
 acceptable standards of 250 mg/L in above mentioned two bore wells.
  The concentration of copper ( 0.388 mg/L) was found high in bore well no SIP
 7G. Other parameters in all 4 bore wells were found in within prescribed
 standards of drinking water quality . Note : SIP - 8G --Uppanar River U/s, Poondiyankuppam, SIP - 38G - Uppanar River D/s Surface water near M/s.
 Cusecs Pump House, Rasapettai, Kudikadu , Cuddalore

  From the above table, the water quality parameter confirms the intrusion of sea
 water into Uppanar river, however the concentration of copper in u/s of Uppanar
 river was found high in concentration compare to down stream.
ii. Status of Functioning of ETPs of industries in S IPC OT: The Joint team conducted
 inspection of all industries, it's pollution control measures, the status of operation of
 ETPs, sludge generation, mode of disposal of treated effluents and the effluent
 monitoring devices installed by individual industries are presented in Annexure - 4a &
 4b. Following are the significant observations made during inspection;
 a. S IPC OT Supplies water for all the industries in the Estate, except one industry
 M/s.Chemplast Sanmar Ltd (PVC Division), which is taking water from the sea
 and uses it for its process and domestic purposes after desalination in an R.O.
 Plant and disposing the desalination reject water into the sea.
 b. The source of water for S IPC OT is ground water which is withdrawn though bore
 wells. c. The total water consumption by all the industries is 23660.64 KLD. 220 Corrected Copy

 d. In this estate 16 industries are members of M/s. CUSECS which have obtained
 permission to discharge their treated effluents to the sea through M/s. CUSECS
 Ltd. However 5 numbers of industries have installed Zero Liquid Discharge
 System and not discharging their treated effluent through CUSECS. The
 remaining 16 units are discharging their treated effluent / sewage after achieving
 the marine standards through M/s. CUSECS. It is reported that presently the
 treated effluent discharged into sea through this common marine disposal system
 is 10590.95 KLD. e. Two units in this Industrial Estate are discharging the treated trade effluent
 through their own individual marine disposal facilities and during the inspection
 days the cumulative discharge of treated effluent from these two industries was
 8322 KLD. f. 5 industries have provided ZLD system and generating sludge and salt in the tune
 of 4.45 T/Day and 16.72T/Day respectively. The sludge and the salt are disposed
 to the common TSDF and for CO - Processing in the Cement Industries.
 g. Online Effluent Analysers: All the trade effluent generating units have installed
 Online Effluent Monitoring Systems in their effluent outlet pipes and connected
 to "Water Quality Watch" centre in the Head office of TNPCB Chennai. The
 details are enclosed vide Annexure 4a. iii. Details of drinking water supply to inhabitants: There are 17 villages located in and
 around the S IPC OT Industrial Complex. The population of the villages and the present
 water supply provided by the S IPC OT and estimated quantity of water requirement as
 per standard LPCD are tabulated in Annexure - 5 in detail. The abstract of the water
 requirement and the present supply of water are presented below. From the above table it is observed that KudiKadu Panchayat and Sedapalyam
 Panchayat are supplied 23% more than the required water supply. However two
 panchayats viz. Pachayankuppam (- 49%) and Semmankuppam(-54%) are supplied with
 less than the required water supply. 6. Conclusions: Out of 26 units, 22 units installed online monitoring system to monitor pH, &Flow
 and 4 units has online monitoring system to monitor pH, Flow, BOD, COD.
x. The Quantity of drinking water supplied to the inhabitants : There are 4
 Panchayat in and around the S IPC OT, 6 villages belongs to Kudikadu and
 Sedapalayam Panchayat, 3 villages under Pachayankuppam and 6 villages under
 Semmankuppam. Drinking water to these villages being supplied through Tanker
 Lorries, OHTs and R.O Plants. As per the information provided concerned Panchayat
 office, KudiKadu Panchayat and Sedapalyam Panchayat are supplied 23% more than
 the required water supply. However two panchayats viz. Pachayankuppam (- 49%)
 and Semmankuppam(-54%) are supplied with less than the required water supply. 7. Recommendations Of Joint Monitoring Committee: d. All units shall be directed to take steps to explore possible options to reduce fresh water
 consumption and to adopt recover and recycle the treated effluent in their process as
 well as utilities in time bound manner. e. To direct concerned local authority to ensure adequate water supply to two panchayats
 namely Pachayankuppam and Semmankuppam. 226.The committee also annexed the status of functioning of ETPs of

different industries as Annexure 4-b which reads as follows: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019 and engaged in manufacturing the products
 viz.i) Hexaconazole/Propiconazole/Di camba/Tricyclazole - 7 TPM, ii) Metaphenoxy Benzyl
 Alcohol - 20 TPM iii) D V Acid Chloride - 7.5 TPM, iv) Cypermethrin / Alphacypermethrin/
 Permethrin - 100 TPM, v) Quinopyromine Sulphate-1.75 TPM, vi) Oxyclozanide - 2 TPM, vii) Deltamethrin-7.5 TPM. The unit is producing by product of a) Hcl Acid - 239.52 TPM, b) Spent Sulphuric Acid - 0 TPM, c) Sodium Sulphite Solution - 743.39 TPM, d) Sodium
 Sulphite Powder - 0 TPM, e) Hydrogen Bromide Solution - 0 TPM, f) Aluminum Chloride
 Solution - 23.55 TPM, g) Ammonium Chloride - 190.64 TPM .During inspection on
 22.02.2019 the unit was under operationat 95 % of consented capacity. 224 Corrected Copy

 During inspection the reported water consumption of the unit was 375 KLD and the water is
 being supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline. The reported trade effluent generation from
 process was 170 KLD against the consented quantity of 171KLD, out of which 100 was
 Low TDS effluent and 70 KLD was High TDS effluent. The High TDS effluent being treated in the ETP comprises of collection tank, Equalisation
 tank, Neutralisation, Lamella Plate Filter, MEE followed by Vertical thin film drier for salt
 recovery. During inspection, the ETP was in operation, the team witnessed the salt recovery
 from Vertical Thin Film (VTF) drier. The condensate from the MEE and VTF being
 collected and reduced its temperature through cooler and treated along with Low TDS
 effluent. The concentrated effluent being fed to VTF to recover salt in the tune of 14.4
 MT/day. The Low TDS effluent being treated in ETP comprises of collection tank, Flash mixer,
 Floculator, Lamella Plate Filter, Bio-aeration, clarifier dual Media Filter and RO System.

 The chemical sludge from combined waste water treatment is 5397 T/Annum and disposed
 to Tamilnadu Waste Management Ltd. During the time of inspection the unit was generating
 salt at the rate of 14.4 T/Day and sludge 0.5 T/Day. The unit has installed Online
 Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters and pH,
 Flow, BOD, COD, TSS and connected to "Water Quality Watch" at TNPCB, Chennai and CPC B New Delhi. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2021 and the unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 products viz.i) Ammonium Chloride - 56 TPM, ii) Cupric Hydroxide -1 TPM, iii) Sodium
 Sulphite -99 TPM, iv) Meta Phenoxy Benzyl Alcohol 36 TPM. During inspection on
 22.02.2019 the unit was under operationat 92 % of consented capacity. 225 Corrected Copy

 As per the consented capacity, the water requirement of the unit is 21.9KLD, the water is
 supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption
 was20 KLD and generating trade effluent of 16.9 KLD against the consented quantity of 19
 KLD. The unit is located in the same premises of unit- 1 and having separate consent under the
 Air and Water act. The effluent generated being sent to Unit - 1 to treat the effluent.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: During inspection the reported water consumption of the unit was 30 KLD, the water is
 being supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline.The water is used for formulation of the
 pesticides. Reported that no trade effluent is generated from its process

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2020. As per consent the unit is engaged in
 manufacturing ofbulk drugs (32 Nos) as main products, Sodium salt of Methyl Mercaptan
 (40 TPA), Sulphuric Acid (120 TPA), Hydrochloric Acid (60 TPA) as by products.During
 inspection on 21.02.2019the unit was under operation at 0.02%of consented capacity. 226 Corrected Copy

 As per the consented capacity, the waterrequirement of the unit is 918 KLD, the water is
 supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline. During inspection it was reported water
 consumption was452 KLD and generating trade effluent of 322 KLD against the consented
 quantity of 322 KLD, out of which 123.9 was Low TDS effluent and 42.5 KLD was High
 TDS effluent. The Low TDS effluent being treated in ETP comprises of Equalization tank - 1,
 Equalization tank-2,Flocculator -1,Primary clarifier, Aeration tank-1, Secondary clarifier-1,
 Aeration tank-2, Secondary clarifier-2,Sintexstorage tank,Flocculator-2, Tertiary clarifier,
 Treated water storage tank,The condensate water from MEE & ATFD being added in the
 bio-aeration system. The secondary treated effluent being treated through RO system to
 recover RO permeates which is being used in the boiler. The RO reject from the RO system
 being fed to MEE for concentrate. The High TDS effluent being treated in the ETP comprises of collection tank, Equalisation
 tank, Coagulation tank (PAC), Coagulation tank (PE),Clarifier, MEE followed by Agitated
 Thin Film Drier(ATFD) for salt recovery. The domestic effluent is treated in the Sewage Treatment Plant and the treated sewage is
 utilized for gardening process. The unit reported that they are generating chemical sludge in the tune of 2068 T/Annum
 and salt at the rate of 1 - 1.5 T/Day which is disposed to Tamilnadu Waste Management
 Ltd. The unit is not discharging trade effluent to the CUSECS Ltd.The unit has installed
 Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters pH,
 Flow and connected to "Water Quality Watch" of TNPCB, Chennai.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The water requirement of the unit is 13 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 5 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 0.01 KLD against the consented quantity of 10 KLD, and 0.01 KLD was High
 TDS effluent. The unit is located in the same premises of unit- 1 and having separate consent under the
 Air and Water act. The effluent generated during R& D activity being sent to Unit - 1 to
 treat the effluent. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2023and engaged in manufacturing of products
 viz.i) Blue Pigments - 275 T/M, ii) Intermediates - 115 T/M. The unit is producing by-
 products viz. a) Spent Sulphuric Acid - 2700 T/M, b) Spent Hydrocholoric acid - 600 T/M, c) Sodium Hypo Chlorite (Impure) - 700 T/M.During inspection on 22.02.2019 the unit
 was under operation at 52.17 % of consented capacity.

 The water requirement of the unit is 2156 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 1027 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 840 KLD against the consented quantity of 1177 KLD.

 The unit has ETP Comprising Equalization Tank, Lime Preparation Tank - 3, Flash Mixer-
 3Primary Clarifloculator, Clarifloculator, Equalization Basin, Aeration Tank-1, Aeration
 Tank-2, Secondary clarifier- 2, Marine pit - 1, Impervious Pond and Holding Tank -1.The
 treated effluent of 700 KLD being discharged into sea through its own marine disposal
 system. It is reported that thechemical sludge of 4500 T/Annum from the ETP is disposed to
 M/s.Ramco Cements, Alathiyur for co - processing. During the time of inspection the unit
 was generating chemical sludge at the rate of 10 T/Day. The unit has installed Online 228 Corrected Copy

Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters pH, Flow,
TDS, BOD, COD, TSS, Cr and connected to "Water Quality Watch" of TNPCB, Chennai. 229 Corrected Copy

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: During inspection the reported water consumption of the unit was 25 KLD for domestic
 and other utility purpose, the water is being supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline.It is
 reported that the process is not involved any water and not generating any trade effluent. 230 Corrected Copy

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2020 and engaged in manufacturing bulk drugs (40
 Nos) as products.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation and
 producing bulk drugsat 0.1 %of consented capacity.

 The water requirement of the unit is 128 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection, reported water consumption was 35 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 2.8 KLD (High TDS) against the consented quantity of 48.5 KLD.

 The domestic Sewage 6 KL is treated through Sewage Treatment Plant and disposed for
 gardening purpose. The effluent is treated through effluent treatment plant comprisingof stripper column,
 Lamella clarifier, SBR-1(Sequence Batch Reactor), Treated collection storage tank, sand
 filter, carbon filter, MEE and Pusher Centrifuge.

 It is reported that theETP chemical sludge of 300 T/Annum is Disposed to Tamilnadu
 Waste Management Ltd. During the time of inspection the unit was generating salt at the
 rate of 200Kg/Month. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the
 quality of treated effluent for the parameters pH, Flow, BOD,COD, TSS, TDS, CCTV and
 connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai and CPC B.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The water requirement of the unit is 1680KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was1590 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 340 KLD against the consented quantity of 1212 KLD.

 The effluent was treated through combined effluent treatment plant comprising of
 Collection tank, Neutralization tank,Clariflocculator, Treated water tank, Softener plant
 regeneration watercollection tank, Clarifier, Filter press, Flocculent Tank, Collection tank
 Overflow sump, Plant washing collection sump, Sludge Drying beds, Alumina cum sand
 bed, Guard Pond -1 to CUSECS, Sand filter,Softener, Guard Pond - 2 No for reuse,
 Lime preparation tank. After treatment the effluent is disposed through M/s.CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
 from wastewater treatment 1800 T/Annum is disposed for Co Processing in cement kilns
 (M/s. ACC Ltd. and M/s. Ultra Tech Cement Ltd.). During inspection the unit was
 generating sludge at the rate of 2.5 T/day. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system
 to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to
 "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Corrected Copy

 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. As per consent the unit is engaged in
 manufacturing of 4-isobutyl acetophenoneof 417 MTPM andAcetic acid - 172.80 MTPM
 as By Product.During inspection on 22.02.2019 the unit was not under operation.

 The water consumption of the unit is 319 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through its Borewell through pipeline. During inspection the unit is not under operation.

 The trade effluent generation is 134.8 KLD. Since the unit was not under operation from
 October 2017, no trade effluent has been generated.

 The effluent was treated through combined effluent treatment plant comprising of 1) Flash
 mixer, 2) Filter water tank, 3) Multiple effect evaporator, 4) MEE stripper column 3 effect
 evaporator, ATFT dryer, 5) Clarifier water tank, 6) Parallel plate Separator, 7)
 Neutralisaion tank, 8) Screen chamber,9) Collection tank, 10) Dosing tank for alum, 11)
 Dosing tank for lime, 12) Dual media filter, 13) Sludge drying beds.

 After treatment the effluent is disposed through M/s.CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
 from wastewater treatment 360 T/Annum disposed to common landfill -TSDF,
 Gummidipoondi. During the time of inspection the unit was not under operation and hence
 no trade effluent has been generated from the unit.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in generating Electric
 power of 2.50 MW by using Furnace oil as a Fuel .During inspection on 22.02.2019 the
 unit was under operation. The water requirement of the unit is 72.6 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 10 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 2 KLD against the consented quantity of 10 KLD.

 The unit is located in the same premises of unit- 1 and having separate consent under the
 Air and Water act. The effluent generated being sent to Unit - 1 to treat the effluent.
 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: 233 The water consumption of the unit is 1.2 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through its Borewell through pipeline. Since, the unit was not under operation, no trade
 effluent has been generated from the unit. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: . The water requirement of the unit is 690 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 646 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 71 KLD against the consented quantity of690 KLD.

 The effluent is treated through combined effluent treatment plant comprising of
 Equalization tank, Settling Tank, Chemical reaction tank/Nutrient addition tank,
 Aeration Tank, Primary Clarification, Treated effluent collection tank, Guard Pond,
 WTP/CT effluent collection tank, Buffer tank, Secondary clarifier, Lamella filter, Clear
 water collection tank, UF Filterate tank, RO Permeate tank, Sludge drying bed, RO2
 Feed tank, MEE feed tank, RO Stage-1, RO Stage-2, MEE, ATFD.

 After treatment the effluent is recycled in the process. The chemical sludge generated from
 ETP in the tune of 62.40 T/Annum is disposed to cement plants for co processing in cement
 kiln. The RO Reject is treated in MEE and ATFD and Salt is recovered. During the time of
 inspection the unit was generating salt at the rate of 80Kg/day. The unit has installed 235 Corrected Copy

 Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters pH,
 Flowconnected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. As per consent the unit is engaged in
 generating Steam 16 MT/hour, Captive Power 1.5 MW/hour by using Coal as fuel. During
 inspection the unit was under operation. The water requirement of the unit is 387KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 51 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 1 KLD against the consented quantity of 1 KLD.

 The unit is located in the same premises of unit- 1 and having separate consent under the
 Air and Water act. The effluent generated being sent to M/s. Asian Paints Limited (Penta
 Division) to treat the effluent. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing the
 products viz.Processed Fabrics (Bleached / Mercerised /Dyed - Woven and Knitted Fabrics
 579 Ton/Month. During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation at 48 % of
 consented capacity. 237 Corrected Copy

The water requirement of the unit is 788 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 600 KLD and generating trade
effluent of 550 KLD against the consented quantity of 600 KLD.

The effluent is treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of Collection
Tank, Effluent Collection Tank, Equalization Tank, Chlorine Contact Feed Tank,
Chlorine Contact Tank, ECR Reactors, Hopper Tank(Settling Tank), Primary Clarifier,
Cascade Reactor Module, Air Diffusion Tank-I, Air Diffusion Tank-II, Bio Tower Feed
Tank, Bio Tower A Stage, Bio Tower A Stage-II, Bio Tower B Stage-I, Bio Tower B
Stage-II, Surface Aerator -I, Surface Aerator -II, Secondary Clarifier, Sludge Thickener
Tank, Guard Pond, Treated Effluent tank, Dual Media Filter, Chlorine SafetyHood
Neutralization Tank, Sludge Drying Bed, Sludge Drying Bed, Sludge Drying Bed,
Sludge Drying Bed, Sludge Drying Bed. After treatment the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
generatedfrom wastewater treatment 129.6 T/Year is disposed to TSDF Gummidipoondi
and 200 Kg/Month of Chemical Sludge to Ultratech Limited Ariyalur for co processing
into cement kiln. During the time of inspection the unit has 34.86 T of accumulated sludge. The unit has
installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the
parameters pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. 238 Corrected Copy

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Photo graphs showing ETP

 View of Effluent Treatment Plant View of Diffused Aeration Tank 18. M/s. Amcor Flexibles India PvtLtd ., A 9-2, S IPC OT, Cuddalore - 607 005

 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturingof
 Rotogravure Printing Rollers - 40 Rollers/Day.During inspection on 22.02.2019 the unit
 was under operation. The water requirement of the unit is 12KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 0.92 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 0.92 KLD against the consented quantity of 5 KLD.

 The effluent is treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of Collection
 Cum Equalization Sump,Mgo Preparation Tank, Precipitation Tank, Clear Water Sump,
 Pressure Sand Filter, Pressure Activated Carbon Filter, Sludge Drying Bed, Settling
 Tank/Plate Settlers, Membrane Technology using Reverse Osmosis, Ro Permeate Tank,
 RO Feed Tank, Mechanical Filter Press and Solar Evaporator.

 After treatment the treated effluent was recycled to the process. The chemical sludge from
 wastewater treatment 5 T/Annum is disposed for landfilling at TSDF of M/s. TNWML,
 Gummidipoondi. During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate of
 100 Kg/Month. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of
 treated effluent for the parameters pH, Flow, TDS connected to "Water Quality Watch
 Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2020. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 Bleached cotton hosiery fabric 33.600 T/M, Dyed cotton hosiery fabric 16.800 T/M,
 Bleached cotton yarn 54.068 T/M, Dyed cotton yarn 64.848 T/M.During inspection on
 22.02.2019 the unit was under operation at84 % of consented capacity.

 The water requirement of the unit is 224.8KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 190 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 16.9 KLD against the consented quantity of 186.8 KLD.

 The water consumption of the unit is 224.8 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through pipeline. During inspection the unit is consuming 190 KLD water and generating
 trade effluent in the tune of 186.8 KLD. The effluent is treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of Guard
 Pond, Screen Chamber, Collection Tank, Equalization Tank, Anaerobic Digester,
 Aeration Tank, Clarifier- Biological Treatment, Treated Effluent Collection Tank-1,
 Treated Effluent Collection Tank-2, Chemical Mixing and Flocculator, Clarifier-
 Chemical Treatment, Sludge Holding Tank, Filter Press, Sludge Drying Beds, Pressure
 Sand Filter, Activated CarbonFilter, Final Treated Collection Tank.

 After treatment the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
 from wastewater treatment 193.2 Tons/Year being sent to M/s Ultratech Limited Ariyalur
 for co processing in cement kiln. During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate of 190 Kg/day. The
 unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for
 the parameters pH, Flow, TDS connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB,
 Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Photo graphs showing ETP and Salt recovery system

 View of Aeration Tank View of Clarifier 20. M/s. R K Exports KARUR PVT Ltd. Plot No A-8/B, S IPC OT Industrial Complex,
 Cuddalore - 5

 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2020. The unit is engaged in process ofBleaching,
 Dyeing & Printing OfCotton Woven Fabric 166.4 T/M, Bleaching & Dyeing of Cotton
 Yarn 39.0 T/M.During inspection on 22.02.2019 the unit was under operation92 % of
 consented capacity. The water requirement of the unit is 522 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was 404 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 230 KLD against the consented quantity of 366 KLD.

 The effluent was treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of
 Collection Tank, Collection Tank, Aeration Tank, Tertiary Treated Tank,Multigrade
 Filter, Raw Water Tank, Collection Tank, Secondary Clarifier, Secondary Treated
 Tank, Activated Carbon Filter, Sludge Thickner, Filter Press, Flash Mixer,Flocculator,
 TertiaryClarifier,) Guard Pond, Sludge Drying Bed.

 After treatment the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The chemical
 sludge from waste water treatment 90 T/Annum disposed to cement plants for co
 processing in cement kiln. During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate of 250 Kg/day.
 The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent
 for the parameters pH, Flow, TDS connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB,
 Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: 241 Photo graphs showing ETP and Salt recovery system

 View of Aeration View of Clarifier 21. M/s. Topknit Processing Mill PvtLtd.,Plot No A8/A, S IPC OT Industrial Complex,
 Cuddalore-607 005

 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in process ofFabric
 Dyeing 390 Tons/Month.During inspection the unit was not under operation.

 During inspection the reported water consumption of the unit was 464.1KLD, the water is
 being supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline.The water is used for formulation of the
 pesticides. Reported that no trade effluent is generated from its process

 The water requirement of the unit is 464.1KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. The effluent generation is 450.5 KLD. Since, the unit was not under operation
 from October 2017, no trade effluent has been generated from the unit.

 The effluent was treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of
 Collection tank Bar screen, Rc Feed circular tank, Secondary clarifier circular tank,
 Treated watercircular tank, Equalization circular tank, filter feed circular tank, Aeration
 circular tank, Reactivated clarifer circular tank, sludge holding circular tank, Sipcot water
 circular tank,Sipcot water circular tank. After treatment the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd.The chemical sludge
 from waste water treatment 90 T/Annum disposed to cement plants for co processing in
 cement kiln. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: 22. M/s. Arkema Peroxides India Private Limited, Semmankuppam Village, Cuddalore
 Taluk, Cuddalore - 607 005. The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 products viz.Speciality Chemicals as Organic Peroxides 400 Tons /Month, Cross linking
 agent formulation 16 Tons / Month, Lauryl Chloride 50 Tons/Month.The unit is producing
 Benzoic Acid 0.83 Tons/Month, Phosphoric Acid 60 Tons/Annum, Sulphuric Acid 80
 Tons/ Month as By Products.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under 23. M/s. Covestro India Pvt. Ltd Semmankuppam Village, Cuddalore Taluk, Cuddalore
 District

 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2027. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 Thermoplastic Polyurethane resin and compound500 Tons per month.During inspection on
 21.02.2019 the unit was under operationat 97.38 % of consented capacity. 243 Corrected Copy

 The water requirement of the unit is 70KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was20 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 1.5 KLD against the consented quantity of 5.0 KLD.

 The effluent is treated through effluent treatment plant comprising of Collection tank,
 Permeate tank, Clarifier, Air blower, Oil separator, Oxidation tank, Sand filter,
 Neutralisation tank, Aeration tank, Settling tank, Tube settler, Sand filter, Pressure plate
 filter, Biological tank, Sludge drying tank, RO feed tank, RO reject tank, Evaporator,
 Condenser and back wash, RO flushing Tank. After treatment the treated effluent is recycled to the process. The chemical sludge from
 wastewater treatment 1 T/Annum is disposed to TSDF of M/s. TNWML, Gummidipoondi.
 During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate of 0.25 Kg/day.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2021. The unit is engaged in manufacturing
 ofOssein 800 MT/Month, Di-Calcium Phosphate 1700 MT/Month andGelatine 300
 MT/Month.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation50% of
 consented capacity. The water requirement of the unit is 5195KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was1312 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 1295 KLD against the consented quantity of 5000 KLD.

 The effluent is treated through effluent treatment plant comprising of Bone washing
 effluent Collection Tank, Bonewashing Pretreatment Clarifier, Bone Washing pH
 Correction Sump, Bone washing Flash Mixer, Bone washing Primary Clarifier, Bone
 washing Filter Press, Ossein plant, Collection Tank for pretreatment, Gelatine plant
 effluent Collection Pit, Gelatine effluent Storage Tank for pretreatment, Ossein&Gelatine 244 Corrected Copy

Effluent Collection Tank, 11) Ossein Plant Primary Clarifier, Ossein Plant Filter Press,
Screw Press forGelatine Waste, Equalisation tank, Buffer tank, UASBR, Gas Holder
forUASBR, De-Nitrification Tanks, Aeration tank, Secondary Clarifier, PSF, UF Feed
Tank, RO Feed Tank, RO Permeate Collection tank, Sludge Drying Beds, Decanter UF,
UF, RO, RO, DCP plant effluent Collection Tank, DCP effluent pretreatment Clarifier,
DCP pre-treated effluent Collection tank, DCP Aeration tanks, DCP Secondary Clarifier,
Screw Blowers, Sludge Bio-digester, Slurry preparation Tank, Sludge Tank, Gas Holder
for Sludge Digester. After treatment, the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The unit is
generatingbiological sludge. No chemical sludge is generated from the process. Bio sludge
generated is disposed for further use. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to
monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters pH, Flow, BOD, COD, TSS
connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai.

Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The reported water consumption of the unit is 2.24 KLDand the water is supplied by
 S IPC OT through pipeline. No trade effluent is generator from process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2022. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 PVC Resins 300000 Tons/Annum.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under After treatment the treated effluent is recycled to the process. The chemical sludge from
 wastewater treatment 2456 T/Annum is disposed at TSDF of M/s. TNWML,
 Gummidipoondi. Duringthe time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate
 of 2 T/Day. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of
 treated effluent for the parameters pH, Flow, connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2022. The unit is engaged in manufacturing the
 following products: 1) Receiving and transfer of Vinyl Chloride Monomer (VCM) to the
 PVC Plant site at S IPC OT, Cuddalore 316000 T/Annum.
 During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation.

 The water consumption of the unit is 410.4 KLD and the water is taken from sea. Water
 has been withdrawn from sea (for firefighting purpose). No trade effluent is generator
 from process. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: 247 The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2023. The unit is engaged in manufacturing
 ofPrecipitated Silica 900 Tons/Month.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was
 under operation at 24 % of consented capacity. The waterrequirement of the unit is 1350 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was460 KLD and generating
 trade effluent of 146.9 KLD against the consented quantity of 1140 KLD.

 The effluent was treated through effluent treatment plant comprising of Equalization
 Tank, Clariflocculator Depth, Clarified Effluent Tank and Treated Effluent Tank, the
 treated effluent is being sent to CUSECS. Since unit was recently installed there is no sludge generation. The unit has installed
 Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent for the parameters
 and pH, Flow, connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 Sodium Chloride of 18.12 TPM and Ammonium Perchlorate of 37.50 TPM.During
 inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation at 60 % consented capacity.

 As per the consented capacity, the water requirement of the unit is 70KLD, the water is
 supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption
 was60 KLD and generating trade effluent of 12 KLD against the consented quantity of 23
 KLD. 249 Corrected Copy

 The effluent was treated through effluent treatment plant comprising of Collection
 Equalization cum Neutralization Tank, Primary Clarifier, Sludge Drying Bed,Treated
 Effluent Collection Sumpand Pressure Sand Filter.

 After treatment the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
 generated from wastewater treatment 0.04 T/Annum disposal for landfill at TSDF of M/s.
 TNWML, Gummidipoondi. During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at
 the rate of 120 kg/Annum. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the
 quality of treated effluent for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality
 Watch Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of Alpha
 Blue 5.25 TPM, Beta Blue 5 TPM, andFerrous Sulphate 79 TPM.During inspection on
 22.02.2019 the unit was under operation at 75% of consented capacity.

 The waterrequirement of the unit is 28.5 KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was23 KLD and generating trade
 effluent of 10 KLD against the consented quantity of 12 KLD, 250 Corrected Copy

 The effluent is treated through Individual effluent treatment plant comprising of Oil &
 Grease Trap Tank, Collection Sump (Rcc), Collection Sump, Neutralization Tank (MS
 With Rubber Lined), Clarifier (Filter Press), Aeration Tank (Surface), Sand Filter,
 Treated Effluent Tank, Filter Press, Filtrate Tank and Cusecs Tank.

 After treatment, the treated effluent is disposed to M/s. CUSECS Ltd. The chemical sludge
 generated from wastewater treatment 150 T/Annum is disposedat TSDF of M/s. TNWML,
 Gummidipoondi. During the time of inspection the unit was generating sludge at the rate of
 400 kg/Day. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of
 treated effluent for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality Watch
 Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The water requirement of the unit is 25KLD, the water is supplied by S IPC OT through
 pipeline. During inspection reported water consumption was10KLD for processing of
 products. No effluent is generated from the process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The main function of this facility is to ensure the quality of treated effluent received from
 different industries before pumping these effluent into marine out fall and routine
 maintenance of marine out fall. During the time of inspection the treated effluent from the
 CUSECS collection tank was pumping at the rate of 500 KL/hr into marine out fall.

 The common facility has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of
 treated effluent for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality Watch
 Centre" TNPCB, Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The water consumption of the unit is 39 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through pipeline. During inspection the unit is not under operation. 3

 The source of trade effluent generation is from process 10 KLD. During inspection the unit
 is not generating any trade effluent. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated effluent
 for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB,
 Chennai. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2020. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 Fipronil 5% SC 30.0 T/m, Isoprothiolane 40% EC 30.0 T/m, Acetamiprid 20% SP 30.0
 T/m, Imidacloprid 17.8% SL 30.0 T/m, Indoxacarb 15.8% EC 30.00 T/m.During
 inspection the unit was under operation. The reported water consumption of the unit is 5.0 KLD (Domestic use) and the water is
 supplied by S IPC OT through pipeline. No trade effluent is generated from any of its
 process. The unit has installed Online Monitoring system to monitor the quality of treated sewage
 for the parameters and pH, Flow connected to "Water Quality Watch Centre" TNPCB,
 Chennai. 253 Corrected Copy

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing
 of FISH MEAL 45 MT/DAY and FISH OIL 5 MT/DAY.During inspection on 21.02.2019
 the unit was not under operation. The water consumption of the unit is 24.5 KLD and the water is supplied by
 S IPC OT through pipeline. During inspection the unit was not under operation. The trade effluent generation is from process 25 KLD. During inspection the unit
 is not generating any trade effluent. Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2021. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of
 Aluminiumsulphates 75 MT/M and metallic stearates 5 MT/M.During inspection the unit
 was notin operation. It is reported that the unit was closed since 2018.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing of White
 Ice - 600 T/Month.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation.

 The reportedwater consumption of the unit is 24 KLD and the water is supplied by through
 pipeline. No trade effluent is generator from any of its process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The unit has valid Consent upto 31.03.2019. The unit is engaged in manufacturing ofWhite
 Ice Bar 210 T/Month.During inspection on 21.02.2019 the unit was under operation.

 The reportedwater consumption of the unit is 8 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through pipeline. No trade effluent is generator from any of its process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: Corrected Copy

 Thereported water consumption of the unit is 8 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through pipeline. No trade effluent is generator from any of its process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: The reportedwater consumption of the unit is 1 KLD and the water is supplied by S IPC OT
 through pipeline. No trade effluent is generated from any of its process.

 Remarks of the committee on functioning of effluent treatment plant: i. All units shall be directed to take steps to explore possible options to reduce fresh water
 consumption and to adopt recover and recycle the treated effluent in their process as
 well as utilities in time bound manner. j. To direct concerned local authority to ensure adequate water supply to two panchayats
 namely Pachayankuppam and Semmankuppam. 228. Further, as per report dated 11.11.2019 certain

industries were inspected which were already extracted in the

earlier paragraphs. 229. It is seen from the report that the source of Copper and

Nickel is from M/s. Amcor Flexible (I) Ltd., and close monitoring

was directed to be conducted. It is also seen from the report that

though there was certain improvements in respect of air quality

but there was no much improvement in the water pollution. It is

also observed in the report that for further improvement of

environmental quality of Cuddalore S IPC OT industrial complex, a

revised CEPI action plan is to be prepared and implemented in a

time bound manner. So the report shows that there is a necessity

for a further study to be conducted in respect of comprehensive 257 Corrected Copy

environment pollution index and further action plan has to be

prepared for that purpose. 230. It may be mentioned that the Principal Bench of the

National Green Tribunal in O.A.1038 of 2018 which was suo

motu case taken on the basis of the news paper item titled " CPC B

to rank industrial units on pollution levels" authored by Mr.

Sanjay Kaw published in the Asian Age dated 6.12.2018. By order

dated 13.12.2018 the Principal Bench considered the CEPI criteria

tabulated by the Pollution Control Board in respect of 43 critically

pollution areas and 32 severely polluted areas and extracted the

same in para 4 of the order which reads as follows: (79.54) including
 Anand Parbat,
 Naraina, Okhla,
 Wazirpur 5. Gujarat Ankleshwar (88.50), Vadodara (66.91),
 Vapi (88.09), Rajkot (66.76)
 Ahmedabad (75.28),
 Vatva (74.77), 258 Corrected Copy

 Bhavnagar (70.99),
 Junagarh (70.82) 6. Haryana Faridabad (77.07), -- Panipat (71.99) 7. Himachal -- Baddi (69.07),
 Pradesh Kala Amb (68.77),
 Parwanoo (63.83) 8. Jharkhand Dhanbad (78.63) Jamshedpur (66.06),
 Saraikela
 (65.38), Ramgarh
 (65.11), Bada
 jamtara (64.47) 9. Karnataka Mangalore (73.68), Raichur (68.07),
 Bhadravati (72.33) Bidar (67.64),
 Pinia (65.11) 10. Kerala Greater Kochin -- (75.08) 11. Madhya Indore (71.26) Dewas (68.77),
 Pradesh Nagda-ratlam
 (66.67), Pitampur
 (65.09) 12. Maharashtra Chandrapur (83.88), Nashik (69.25),
 Dombivalli (78.41), Chembur (69.19),
 Aurangabad (77.44), Pimpari - In this, Cuddalore was termed as „Critically Polluted Area‟ having

CEPI Index of 77.45. Further, the same was considered by the

Principal Bench on 10.7.2019 wherein the report submitted by the

Central Pollution Control Board was considered and observed that

based on the CEPI-2016 criterion, CPC B carried out further

monitoring in the year 2017-18 where it was found that number of

identified polluted industrial clusters went up to 100. The

said number includes 38 critically polluted, 31 severely

polluted and remaining 31 as other polluted areas. Thereafter, this

Tribunal has considered the copy of the letter dated 17.5.2019

indicating the latest CEPI scores for 100 polluted industrial

areas/clusters monitored during 2018 and that table was extracted

in para 11 of the order which reads as follows: Pending such assessment, interim compensation may be

 recovered onthe scale adopted by this Tribunal in the case

 of Vapi industrial

 area23. 19 Para 55, of O.A 95/2018, order dated 11.01.2019 20 M.C Mehta Vs. Union of India (1997) 2 SCC 353, where the Supreme Court of India held - The developmentof industry is
essential for the economy of the country, but at the same time the environment and the ecosystems have to be protected.
The pollution created as a consequence of development must be commensurate with the carrying capacity of our
ecosystem. M.C Mehta vs. Union of India & Ors. , (2009) 6 SCC 142, at para 23, 30 & 46, the Supreme Court addressed the issue of
wide threat to forest ecology vis-à-vis the mining activities in the Aravalli hills and explained that it is important to evoke
the precautionary principle to impose complete ban on mining in the Aravalli Range in state of Haryana. 22 Indian Council for Enviro Legal Action & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. , ( 1996) 3 SCC 212 Para 16, Vellore Citizens Welfare
Forum Vs. Union of India & Ors. (1996) 5 SCC 647 Para 12-18 - holding that "Polluter Pay" principle is 'accepted principle
and part of environmental law of the country, even without specific statute. M.C Mehta Vs. Union of India & Ors., W.P (C) No. 13029/2015 order dated 24.10.2017 of the Supreme Court of India., O.A
95/2018, order dated 11.01.2019 & O.A No. 593/2017, order dated 03.08.2018: The Tribunal directed CPC B to take penal
action against those accountable for failure in setting up CETPs/STPs/STPs and to recover compensation for damage to the
environment, 26 Corrected Copy 23 Supra 15 22. CPC B has compiled data of industrial clusters which are polluting in terms of

 air, water and other norms together. Under the law, even air pollution or

 water pollution or other pollution, are independent offences. The sustainable

 development and precautionary principle require any polluting activity to be

 prohibited and compensation recovered for damage caused from polluters. If

 there is air pollution, actionable under the Air Act , even if there is no violation

 of Water Act or EPA Act, such pollution cannot be ignored. There has to be

 prosecution, stopping of polluting activity and recovery of

 compensation for restoration of the environment. We have seen
 that

 even when norms of air, water and other pollution are being

 violated,prosecution, stopping of polluting activities

 compensation is not taking place for which there is no
 justification. Likewise action to prohibit polluting activity, initiating
 prosecution

 and recovery of compensation is required not merely for the

 PIAsbased on violation of norms under all the heads, but also

 for areas

 where air, water or other pollution is found individually. Thus
 areas

 not covered by PIAs are also required to be governed by our
 directions

 for enforcing the law by way of stopping polluting activity and
 taking

 other steps. The fact that such pollution is taking place is

 evidencedby there being acknowledged pollution in the form

 of 351 polluted

 river stretches24 and 102 non-attainment cities25. 23. CPC B must compile data of polluted industrial areas not confined to more

 than one parameters as is now being done, but also with respect to polluted

 areas based on water, air or other pollution individually. Compiling data for 26 Corrected Copy

 categorizing areas as polluted areas based on water pollution alone, or air

 pollution or other pollution 24 O.A. 673/2018, News Item Published in 'The Hindu' authored by Shri. Jacob Koshy titled "More riverstretches are
now critically polluted: CPC B", Order dated 20.09.2018 25 O.A. 681/2018, News Item Published In 'The Times of India' Authored by Shri. Vishwa Mohan Titled "NCAPwith Multiple
Timelines to Clear Air in 102 Cities to be released around August 15" order dated 08.10.2018

 alone may be a step in the right direction. Let this be now done

 in the next three months, with the assistance of State

 PCBs/PCCs or other experts. In this regard we may note that

 dealing with the industrial water pollution, this Tribunal

 directed the CPC B to compile its monitoring report with

 reference to 97 CETPs installed in different states as this was

 linked to 100 PIAs also.26 26. Needless to state that there is no right to carry on business in violation of pollution

 norms and right of statutory authorities is coupled with duty. Such right, does not

 carry any unlimited discretion of not taking action when pollution norms are

 violated. 27. In view of the material compiled by the CPCB, with the assistance of SPCBs/PCCs, in

 respect of polluted industrial areas, where action is not being taken by statutory

 authorities, the Tribunal has to exercise its jurisdiction of directing performance of

 statutory functions and duties by the State boards/committees, following similar

 direction by 28. Accordingly, we direct the CPC B in coordination with all State PCBs/PCCs to take steps

 in exercise of statutory powers under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution)

 Act, 1981 , Water (Prevention

 1986 or any other law to prohibit operation of polluting
 activities in

 the said CPAs and SPAs within three months and furnish a 26 Corrected Copy

 compliance report to this Tribunal. The Central Pollution

 Control Board, in coordination with the State Boards/PCBs

 may make 26 O.A No. 593/2017, order dated 19.02.2019, Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. 27 M.C Mehta (Calcutta Tanneries' Matter) Vs. Union of India & Ors., (1997) 2 SCC 411, at para 17, the Supreme Court
directed the Board to take action against defaulting tanneries which, including those which had not complied with the
conditions under Water Act as mentioned in their consents. In M.C Mehta Vs. Union of India & Ors. , (2004) 6 SCC 588,
paras 37,48, 517 69, the Supreme Court passed direction on closure of industrial units which were illegally operating and
were in violation of the Master Plan. assessment of compensation to be recovered from the said

 polluting units for the period of last 5 years, taking into account

 the cost of restoration and cost of damage to the public health

 and environment and the deterrence element. The scale of

 deterrence may be related to the period and the frequency of

 defaults. Such other factors as may be found relevant may also

 be taken into account. No further industrial activities or

 expansion be allowed with regard to „red‟ and „orange‟ category

 units till the said areas are brought within the prescribed

 parameters or till carrying capacity of area is assessed and new

 units or expansion is found viable having regard to the

 carrying capacity of the area and environmental norms. Pending

 assessment ofcompensation, interim compensation be

 recovered at the scaleadopted by this Tribunal in the

 case of Vapi Industrial area as mentioned in para 22 above. 29. We further direct CPC B, with the assistance of SPCBs/PCCs or other

 experts, to compile information with regard to polluted
 industrial areas based on water pollution norms separately, air
 pollution norms separately and other pollution norm
 separately and notify such information on public domain
 within three months. On completing this exercise, action
 against identified individual polluters may be initiated on the
 same pattern on which direction have been issued in para 28 and
 furnish a report to this Tribunal in this regard also, before the
 next date. 30. We direct the MoEF&CC to take steps for enforcement of action planfor

 improvement of the situation. 26 Corrected Copy 31. We may also mention that hearing individual industrial unit is not

 considered necessary for passing the above order as the CPC B/State PCBs

 must exercise their respective statutory powers by following the procedure

 prescribed under the statute even without intervention of this Tribunal. The Tribunal

 is only requiring such statutory bodies to perform their duties to uphold the law

 without going into an individual case28. Direction is with reference to data

 compiled, or to be compiled, by the said bodies only. 32. It is made clear that white and green or non-polluting industries
 except that the parameters thereof may be monitored with a view to see that under

 the garb of label of white/green or otherwise, the polluting activity is not continued.

 which are not causing any pollution will not be affected by this
 order 33. We direct that the CPC B will be at liberty to have an appropriate panel of Experts

 to augment its capacity, in case the available man- power is found to be inadequate

 to execute the above order and for this purpose utilise the environment funds

 available under the environmental compensation head. In this regard, reference

 may also be made to order dated 22.01.2019, of this Tribunal in O.A No. 101/2019, Central Pollution Control Board Vs. Assam State Pollution Control Board & Ors. which

 enables CPC B to utilise the environment fund for the purpose.

The matter was again taken up on 14.11.2019 and considered the report

filed by the Central Pollution Control Board which was extracted in para 6

of the order which reads as follows: MoEF&CC also asked CPC B that report regarding
CEPI and EPI assessment study may be put up to
Ministry for further deliberation, which has been
done (Annexure-XII)." 27 Corrected Copy

Thereafter, passed the following order: 5. The Tribunal has thus no option except to reiterate that meaningful action

 has to be taken by the State PCBs/PCCs as already directed and action taken

 report furnished showing the number of identified polluters in polluted [272] Corrected Copy

 industrial areas mentioned above, the extent of closure of polluting

 activities, the extent of environmental compensation recovered, the cost of

 restoration of the damage to the environment of the said areas, otherwise

 there will be no meaningful environmental governance. This may be failure of

 rule of law and breach of trust reposed in statutory authorities rendering

 their existence useless and burden on the society. On default, the Tribunal will

 have no option except to proceed against the Chairmen and the Member

 Secretaries of the State PCBs/PCCs by way of coercive action under Section 25 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 read with Section 51 CPC. Such

 action may include replacement of persons heading such PCBs/PCCs or

 direction for stopping their salaries till meaningful action for compliance of

 order of this Tribunal. The Tribunal may also consider deterrent

 compensation to be recovered from the State PCBs/PCCs. Such action

 taken reports strictly in terms of law and order of this Tribunal referred to

 above may be furnished by the State PCBs/PCCS on or before 31.01.2020 to the CPC B. The CPC B may prepare a tabulated analysis of the same and file a

 consolidated report before this Tribunal before February 15, 2020 by email

 at [email protected] . The CPC B may also revise its

 mechanism for expansion and new activities by red and orange category of

 industries in critically/ severely polluted areas consistent with the spirit of the

 earlier orders of this Tribunal and principles of environmental law to bring

 down the pollution load and ensure that activities do not further add to such

 load. 232. The order passed by the Principal Bench of the National

Green Tribunal was challenged before the Hon‟ble Apex Court by

certain parties viz., ( CHAMBER OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES

ASSOCIATION VS. CENTRAL POLLUTION CONTROL BOARD ) by

filing Civil Appeal Diary No.8478/2020 and GUJARAT CHAMBER [273] Corrected Copy

OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES VS. CENTRAL POLLUTION

CONTROL BOARD) (Civil Appeal Diary No.19271/2020) and the

Hon‟ble Apex Court condoned the delay in filing the appeals and

notice was issued and the operative portion of the orders dated

13.12.2018, 10.7.2019, 28.3.2019 and 14.11.2019 of the Principal

Bench, National Green Triunal which were extracted above by this

Tribunal in the earlier paragraphs were stayed and this case was

directed to be posted along with Civil Appeal No.2218 and 2219 of

2020. Since it was stayed by the Hon‟ble Apex Court, this Tribunal

cannot rely on the operative portion of the orders of the Principal

Bench. But at the same time, there is nothing wrong in relying on

the details collected for arriving at such conclusion by the

regulating authorities like Central Pollution Control Board and

State Pollution Control Boards in respect of the comprehensive

Environmental Pollution Index of critical/severely polluted

industrial clusters in India. The study conducted by the regulators

even during 2018 - 19 also showed that C IPC OT, Cuddalore

Industrial Complex was falling under the category „severely polluted

area‟, though not critically polluted area, as identified during 2011-

2014. During 2009 - 2014 during which period certain moratorium

was declared by the MoEF & CC even for establishing new units or

allowing expansion of the existing units and subsequently some

improvement had happened on the basis of the implementation of

the action plan suggested by the State Pollution Control Board and

certain relaxations were made and moratorium was lifted either

partially or wholly considering the improvements based on the [274] Corrected Copy

report of the State Pollution Control Board and Central Pollution

Control Board. 233. In the report dated 11.11.2019 also, the functioning of the

ETP of the industrial units were inspected by the Committee and

they found certain deficiencies in the system in respect of at least

some of the industries and suggested for some improvement.

Further, the Joint Committee report dated 11.11.2019 also shows

that further fresh study regarding Comprehensive Environment

Pollution Index has to be conducted in this area for the purpose of

ascertaining further action plan to be prepared for mitigating the

circumstances prevailing in that area. That also shows that the

question of pollution has not been completely eradicated or

removed in that area. 234. It is true that certain study conducted by the fifth

respondent Association through a private agency viz., Glens

Innovations Labs Pvt. Ltd. Chennai which was produced before this

Tribunal, received on 19.3.2020 shows that the Multiple Effect

Evaporators Efficiency Study in respect of MEE reject by the

industries are to the maximum extent satisfactory. But that report

also shows that some of the units are having some deficiency in

achieving the standard and they were achieving only upto 70% to

80%. Even the study conducted by them in respect of contents

shows that the samples contained Chromium, Barium, Mercury

and Lead. In case of Solara Active Pharma it showed presence of

Barium. In respect of Tagros Chemicals India Pvt. Ltd, presence of

Chromium and Barium were noted. In respect of Crimsun Organics [275] Corrected Copy

Pvt. Ltd., the presence of Chromium, Cadmium and Barium were

noted. In respects of DFE Pharma India Pvt. Ltd, presence of

Chromium, Barium and Mercury were noted. In respect of

Chemplast Cuddalore Vinls Ltd., presence of Barium and

Chromium were noted. 235. They have not mentioned about the other industries.

Further, there is nothing to show that any tests have been

conducted in respect of identifying the presence of Nickel in any of

these industries. There was no cumulative effect of the presence of

such heavy metals on environment which has been considered by

the Committee. Unless cumulative study of all these metals on the

water quality is conducted, it cannot be said that a proper study

has been conducted so as to come to a conclusion that none of the

industries were responsible for such contamination. Further, it is

clear that these improvements were found in these units only after

it was declared as „critically polluted‟ area and moratorium was

imposed and certain action plans were prepared and directed to be

implemented in order to make them ZLD units so as to avoid

discharge of untreated water/effluent into the ground. So the act of

all these units which were discharging sludge earlier into the

ground and the impact of such discharge on water quality has not

been ascertained. Unless such a deep study has been conducted, it

cannot be said that none of the units were responsible for causing

pollution on environment. Further, most of the industries which

were accommodated in that complex are either possibly polluted

industries of 17 categories identified and „red‟ category industries [276] Corrected Copy

which are prone to produce polluting materials which is likely to

affect either air or water. 236. It will be seen from the newspaper report regarding the

death caused on account of pollution, there is a trend of increase in

the mortality rate that is being caused on account of air pollution or

water pollution. In spite of that, no effective health study has been

conducted by any of the Departments to identify the reason for

such mortality and the remedial measures to be taken for the

purpose of mitigating the circumstances and reduce the mortality

rate on account of such pollution. 237. So under these circumstances, it cannot be said that the

contention of the fifth respondent Association that they cannot be

mulcted the liability of environmental compensation as the report

shows that none of the industries were using Nickel, Cadmium,

Lead etc either as raw material or by-product is correct and it

cannot be accepted in toto. There is no attempt made for the

purpose of ascertaining the source of such heavy metal in the water

exceeding the permissible limit, making the water below the

standard of drinking water and it did not mention the remedial

measures to be taken for the purpose of mitigating the cause of

pollution and make the water quality to the extent of potable limit

by the Committee appointed by this Tribunal though the purpose of

appointing that Committee was to make such study and submit the

remedial measures to restore the water quality in that area.

Further, though it is mentioned by the applicant as well as the

sixth respondent that certain RO systems were established in some [277] Corrected Copy

of the villages for the purpose of providing clean water , no attempt

was made by the Committee to ascertain the nature of quality of

water that is being used in such RO system and how the sludge

generated are being disposed of by the persons who are responsible

for operating the same as well. 237. So under these circumstances, there is no merit in the

submission made by the second respondent as well as the fifth

respondent that no further study need be conducted and there is

no necessity for any remedial measures to be taken for meeting the

situation and the application has to be closed by this Tribunal. 238. As an environment court, this Tribunal has got a

responsibility, when it is found that the place continues to be a

severely polluted area, at least in respect of water pollution, then

applying the „precautionary‟ principle and „polluter pays‟ principle

and „intergenerational equity‟ to take measures to remedy the

situation and give necessary direction to the persons who are

responsible to carry out such directions to meet the situation. 239. Further, under Section 3 and 5 of the Environment

(Protection) Act, 1986, the Central Government and State

Governments are having equal responsibility to protect environment

and take remedial measures by preparing necessary action plan for

restoring the damage caused to environment on account of

pollution due to some activities of industries or otherwise the cause

and source cannot be traced out, as per the constitutional mandate

of Article 48-A and 21 of the Constitution of India to protect [278] Corrected Copy

environment and also to provide clean environment, as it is

declared to be part of „right to life‟ as enshrined under Article 21 of

the Constitution of India. 240. So under these circumstances, we feel that it is necessary

to give certain directions while considering the question of

„sustainable development‟ to protect „economic development‟ vis-a-

vis the necessity to protect environment and without compromising

the environment protection which is necessary for the purpose of

promoting „inter generational equity‟ and „public trust‟ doctrine. 241. So this Tribunal feels that it is necessary to appoint a

comprehensive committee to conduct an elaborate comprehensive

study in respect of the S IPC OT, Cuddalore viz. Water pollution, the

source of heavy metals, remedial measures to be taken and identify

the persons responsible for such degradation and collect

environmental compensation from those persons who are

responsible for such act, by applying „polluter pays‟ principle and

also to conduct health study impact of such things on the health of

the people in that locality and provide necessary remedial measures

to resolve the issue permanently, suggesting recommendations and

the persons who are expected to carry out such recommendations

and implementation of the action plan in an effective manner.

Further, an indepth study will have to be conducted by comparing

the situation prevailing prior to the establishment of the industrial

complex and post establishment to ascertain the environment

degradation, by applying the reverse engineering or relate back [279] Corrected Copy

theory to ascertain the source and probable reason and person

responsible to the same. 242. So it is also necessary to conduct investigation, applying

related back theory of the condition of water and soil in that area

before the establishment of the industrial complex and whether

there was any impact caused on account of the activities of the

units in the industrial complex. The reason for the contamination

of water and air in that area after the establishment of the units

and what are the remedial measures to be taken for rectifying the

same permanently. It is also necessary to conduct health survey,

as world-wide examination of mortality rate by the health

organisation, shows that there is increase in the mortality rate on

account of pollution being caused to atmosphere. The nature of

disease, reason for increase and the remedial measures to be taken

for curtailing the same are also necessary for the purpose of

mitigating the circumstances of any alleged possible industrial

pollution being caused on account of the existence of those units in

that industrial complex are also to be gone into by this Tribunal for

which data will have to be taken by appointing a proper committee

and directing the committee that has been appointed by this

Tribunal to go into those aspects and suggest the source, remedial

measures, fixing the responsibility, assessing compensation etc. 243. So under these circumstances, this Tribunal feels that it is

necessary to appoint a Joint Committee, comprising of a (1) Senior

Scientist from Central Pollution Control Board (2) Senior Scientist

from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (3) an Expert having [280] Corrected Copy

expertise in Chemical Engineering, including Organic Substances

from National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli, a Scientist

from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, having expertise in

industrial pollution, an Expert in Health Services from the Rajiv

Gandhi Government General Hospital and Research Centre,

Chennai and District Collector, Cuddalore to inspect the S IPC OT

Industrial Complex, Cuddalore and the surrounding villages which

are likely to be affected on account of the activities (the

surrounding villages which are in the close proximity to the

Industrial Complex and the probable villages which are likely to be

affected on account of its activities including the area of operation

of CUSECS) and its operation and conduct relate back

environmental study or reverse engineering process to ascertain the

pre-existing conditions of water, air and soil quality in those areas

before the establishment of SICOT Industrial Complex, Cuddalore

and the comparative changes occurred on environment, including

quality of air, water and soil for the pre and post period of time

during the alleged improvement is achieved at least to the extent of

air pollution, the sources of presence of heavy metals like Arsenic,

Cadmium, Nickel, Chromium, Barium etc in the air, water and soil

and the possible contributory industry of such heavy metals and

also to ascertain as to whether this is due to geomorphological

change in the nature or soil who were responsible for such presence

of heavy metals or contribution of industrial pollution and suggest

remedial measures, conduct health study regarding health of the

people in that area as to whether the increase in mortality rate or [281] Corrected Copy

nature of disease affecting the health of the people prior to and after

establishment of Industrial Complex, the remedial measures to be

taken for the purpose of mitigating the circumstances and

retrieving the damage caused to water, and soil to its original

position and assess the environmental compensation to be

recovered from the responsible/possible polluting industries. After

getting such report, the State Government as well as the regulators

and the S IPC OT, fifth respondent Association have to implement

the action plan to be prepared by the Committee to resolve the

issue permanently in an effective manner so as to protect health of

the people and continue to take steps to improve the situation in

that area permanently. The Pollution Control Board is directged to

initiate action against the industries identified and impose

environmental compensation against them, after following the

procedure in accordance with law. 244. The expenses for conducting the study by the Committee has

to be met by the S IPC OT and the fifth respondent Association and if

necessary the Government will have to provide necessary financial

assistance for this purpose of implementing the action plan as

directed as protection of life of the people by providing clean

environment which includes right to get pollution free air and water

as part of life as contemplated under Section 21 of the Constitution

of India apart from the constitutional mandate of protecting

environment under Article 48-A of the Constitution of India. The

Committee is also given the liberty to co opt any other Expert of

their choice if they feel necessary for the purpose of preparing a [282] Corrected Copy

proper action plan and suggest remedial measures to resolve the

issue permanently in that area. The Committee is also directed to

conduct study regarding the functioning of RO system provided and

if any improvement is required , suggest the same as well. 245. So the application is disposed of as follows: The Committee is directed to conduct the following study for

preparing the action plan for resolving the issue of water pollution

and restore the water quality (a) Conduct study, applying reverse engineering or relate back

theory to the condition of air, water and soil in Cuddaloe prior to

the establishing of the S IPC OT Industrial Complex and subsequent

to the same [283] Corrected Copy (b) The reason for the presence of heavy metals like Chromium,

Nickel, Cadmium, Lead, Iron and other heavy metals and the

reason for high TDS and hardness of water quality and relative

study has to be conducted as to whether this was due to the any of

the activities of the industrial units in the area due to generation of

natural reasons prevailing in that area. (c) Conduct Health Study as to whether there was any increase in

the mortality rate or increase in the nature of disease prior to and

after the establishment of the S IPC OT Industrial Complex. (d) The remedial measures to be taken for the purpose of resolving

the issue permanently. (e) Identify the units/industry on account of whose probable activity

that such contamination has been caused. (f) Suggestions and recommendations to be carried out by the

industrial units or other establishment so as to resolve the issue

permanently and take the water quality to the extent of potable

limit to provide clean water to the people of the locality. The

Committee is also directed to conduct study regarding the

functioning of RO system provided and if any improvement is

required , suggest the same as well. (ii) The Committee shall prepare a Comprehensive Action Plan with

recommendation of temporary and long term measures to resolve

the issue and assess the environmental compensation, fixing the

responsibility of the persons responsible for the same and provide [284] Corrected Copy

necessary data and method of calculation of assessment of

environmental compensation. (iii) The Committee is given the liberty to coopt any other expert of

their choice to conduct the study and prepare action plan. (iv) The expenses for conducting the said study shall be borne by

the S IPC OT and fifth respondent, apart from the State Government

of providing necessary funds if necessary for meeting the situation. (v) Till such study is completed and action plan implemented the

present arrangement of providing drinking water to the affected

villages by S IPC OT and fifth respondent Association shall continue. (vi) The District Collector, Cuddalore will be the Nodal Officer for

providing necessary logistics and coordination for the Committee to

inspect and prepare the report. (vii) The Committee is directed to complete the study and prepare

the report within a period of six months and submit the same to the

State Government and also this Tribunal by e-filing in the form of

Searchable PDF/OCR Supportable PDF and not in the form of

Image PDF along with necessary hardcopies to be produced as per

Rules (viii) The State Government, S IPC OT, fifth respondent Association

and State Pollution Control Board are directed to evolve the

methodology of implementing the action plan and direct the

responsible persons to implement the Action Plan so as to remedy

the situation in an effective and time bound manner. (ix) This Tribunal shall consider the report and pass appropriate [285] Corrected Copy

direction if any required at a later stage on receipt of the report

from the Committee. (x) The Pollution Control Board is directed to initiate action

against the industries identified and impose environmental

compensation against them, after following the procedure in

accordance with law. (xi) Considering the circumstances, the parties are directed to

bear their respective costs in this application. (xii) The office is directed to communicate this order to the

Members of the Committee, Chief Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu,

Secretary to Government, Health Department, Secretary to

Government, Industries and Environment Department and also the

official respondents by e-mail immediately so as to enable them to

comply with the direction of this Tribunal. (xiii) The office is directed to place the report if any received as

directed for consideration of this Tribunal and also for issuing any

further direction in future if necessary as and when the report is

received without delay. With the above directions and observations, the application is

disposed of. (*) Corrected as per order dated 22.12.2021. Sd/- ...................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 Sd/- .................................E.M.
 (Shri. Saibal Dasgupta) O.A. No.34/2015 5.3. 2021
kkr [286]