(PER: HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
 MR. JUSTICE N. V. ANJARIA)

 Heard learned complainant party-in-person Mr. Narendra

Kumar, learned Additional Government Advocate Smt. Shweta

Krishnappa for respondent Nos.1 and 4 and learned advocate

Mr. Veeresh Budihal for respondent No.3. 2. It could hardly be disputed even by the complainant-party-in-

person that the order dated 19.07.2021 which is brought under the

contempt jurisdiction of this Court by invoking the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 , is an interim order passed in the

pending Writ Petition No.514 of 2021. 3. In the writ petition, the grievance was raised that thousands

of depositors deposited their money in Kanva Souhardha

Co-operative Credit Limited, but were not paid the due amount

even after the maturity period. It was contended that the depositors

were forced to accept shares and other forms of investments in -4- NC: 2024:KHC:41547-DB CCC No. 629 of 2022 respondent No.10-Kanva Group of Companies. The petitioner

sought umbrella of protection under the provisions of the Karnataka

Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act,

2004 . 3.1 The prayer in the writ petition was for issuing direction to

respondent No.2-authority to immediately identify the assets and

properties of respondent No.10 including the benami transactions

of the group of companies. It was further prayed to direct

respondent No.2 to take steps to arrest the Directors and

Managers and to identify the deposit takers who have allegedly

duped the interest of the depositors. Yet another prayer was made

to invoke the provisions of Section 2(6)(viii) of the Banning of

Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019. 3.2 It appears that in the said proceedings, action taken report

was directed by the Court. It was observed that the State

Government shall seek approval of the Central Government for use

of Aadhaar identification for authentication and verification of the

identity of the claimants and the secured creditors who make online

claims in accordance with Section 7(2) of the aforesaid Act of 2004. -5- NC: 2024:KHC:41547-DB CCC No. 629 of 2022 3.3 In paragraph 3 of the interim order, the State Government

was directed by the Court to make an application to the

Government of India for grant of permission to use Aadhaar base

authentication. It was further observed that action will have to be

initiated on the basis of inquiry report in terms of Sections 37 and 37-A of the Karnataka Souharda Sahakari Act, 1997. 4. The grievance of the complainant is that actions have not

been initiated. 5. Admittedly, the State Government has already made the

application to the Government of India for grant of permission to

use Aadhaar base authentication and the report is also submitted.

5.1 Not only that the order under contempt is an interim order

which does not decide the rights of the parties finally, but part of

the directions are complied with. The only grievance is that certain

actions are not taken in terms of the inquiry report.

5.2 Since the order is an interim order and the proceedings of

writ petition are at large before the Court to be considered on

merits, the Court is not inclined to entertain the present contempt

petition, however, observing and leaving open for the complainant -6- NC: 2024:KHC:41547-DB CCC No. 629 of 2022 to raise all the contentions on merits before the Court including the

aspect that actions are not taken in terms of the inquiry report. 6. All such contentions will be dealt with, as and when raised, in

accordance with law. 7. The present contempt proceedings are accordingly disposed

of as not entertained. Sd/- (N. V. ANJARIA)
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/- (K. V. ARAVIND)
 JUDGE

BKV List No.: 1 Sl No.: 53