SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: So many consultancies are trying to dupe students/freshers looking for jobs. This is what happened to me.
DATE: 2019-07-02
SCORE: 306
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/c84t0z/so_many_consultancies_are_trying_to_dupe/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am looking for a job while currently pursuing my masters. Since i graduated in economics with no technical skills in hand, the majority of jobs being offered to me are crappy BPO and backend ones. 

Me and my friend who's in the same boat decided to apply on job portals and we start getting all sorts of calls hiring for voice/non voice process. Some of them were bonafide but i think, majority of them were from fraud consultancies. I got an offer for an interview in Delhi's Badarpur and accepted to come for the interview. The day before, i was wondering that nothing good has ever happened in Badarpur and did a quick google search only to find a consumer complaint filed against the 'consultancy' that i was going to. 

A few days later, me and my friend got another offer for an interview in two consultancies that were in very close proximity to each other. We, being the idiots we are, forget to double check and went to the agencies the next day. I, although asked everything about any hidden charges and ofcourse she lied.

The one i went to made me wait for about half an hour for the interview, i have given interviews before and knew this is not how it works. *Mujhe pata chal gaya tha mera chutiya kat chuka hai.* The interviewer was hardly 10th pass who was struggling to ask questions in English and the moment she uttered i can offer you 35k, i knew this is a scam and she's about to ask me for money which she did. There's no way i can get 35k even if i sold my body to a pimp. So i stormed out of there and called my friend.

What happened with him is more interesting, when they asked him for money, he got himself out by saying he need some time to think. He went down to smoke and he saw three police officers marching towards the building. The moment they saw my friend they asked "how much we they asking?". My friend replied 10k but he gave them nothing. He showed them the way inside the building.

So my friend was sitting outside the room where the interviews took place watching the entire raid taking place. A BTech graduate who paid 2k rupees as 'security' to the the frauds comes after giving a "telephonic interview" and says to my friend *bhut tough interview tha, aadhe ghante grill kia*. The police officer shouted from inside *koi interview nahi tha, iska pati hai vo*. This poor delusional guy was still under the impression that he'll get the job untill everything was explained to him. He gave the lady 2k rupees which the police got back from her.

Any adequately informed job seeker who has given at least one interview knows that only frauds asks money from candidates but i guess there are still people who in desperation, will oblige and pay.

I also feel like an idiot for not cross checking this time and believing everything she told me over the phone like no hidden charges etc.

This all happened 2 days ago and i have another interview lined up later today for a fairly good profile (no BPO/backend crap) after clearing an online test for it. It's the real deal and it'll give an okay start to a fresher like me.

That said, i still feel like an idiot that i went there and waited 30 minutes only to get conned.