New Delhi
Air Cargo Export, New Customs House,
New Delhi

 AND
 Customs Appeal No. 52174 of 2019

 (Arising out of Order-in-Original No. SKS/COMMR/ACE/07/2019 dated
13.06.2019 passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Exports), New Delhi)

Shri Sudarshan Kumar Jain Appellant
Partner: M/s Nidhi Enterprises
118/2393, 1st Floor, Chhata Shahji
Chawri Bazar, Delhi-110006
 VERSUS

Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi Respondent
Air Cargo Export, New Customs House,
New Delhi

Appearance

Shri S.C. Jain, Advocate - for the Appellant.

Shri Rakesh Kumar, Authorized Representative - for the
Respondent. CORAM : HON'BLE MR JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA, PRESIDENT
 HON'BLE MR. P.V. SUBBA RAO, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

 DATE OF HEARING : 18/10/2022
 DATE OF DECISION : 16/11/2022 2 C/52173-52174/2019

 Final Order Nos. 51072-51073/2022

P.V. Subba Rao

 These two appeals have been filed assailing the order-in-

original 1 dated 17.3.22017 passed by the Commissioner of

Customs (Exports), Inland Container Depot 2 , Tughlakabad and

hence are being disposed of together. Customs Appeal No.

52173/2019 is filed by the importer M/s. Nidhi Enterprises 3

assailing the confirmation of demand of Rs. 57,14,129 along with

applicable interest and imposition of an equal amount as penalty

under section 114A. Appeal No. 52174/2019 is filed by Shri

Sudarshan Kumar Jain 4 assailing the penalty of Rs. 10,00,000

under section 112(a) (ii) and the penalty of Rs. 1,00,000 under

section 114AA imposed on him. 2. The undisputed facts of the case are that Nidhi is in the

business of importing and trading paper based articles. It imported

goods under 29 Bills of Entry using various duty free licenses issued

by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade 5 to various persons

under various export promotion schemes such as Duty Free Import

Authorisation 6 , Focus Product Scheme 7 Focus Market Scheme 8 ,

Village and Khadi Gramodyog Yojna 9 and Duty Entitlement

Passbook 10 . These licences/scrips are transferable and after the

exporter fulfils its export obligations under the licence, it can sell

1 Impugned order
2 ICD
3 Nidhi
4 Jain
5 DGFT
6 DFIA
7 FPS
8 FMS
9 VKGUY
10 DEPB 3 C/52173-52174/2019

them to anyone else who can then import goods against the

licence/scrip duty free. Usually, the licences/scrips are sold at a

discount, say, at 95% of the value of the duty exemption available

under the licence. For imports under each of the schemes under

which the licences/scrips are issued by DGFT, there is a

corresponding exemption notification under the Customs Act . Thus,

when the licence issued by the DGFT is produced before the

customs for clearance, appropriate value is debited from the

licence/scrip and goods are cleared without the importer paying the

duty in cash in terms of the corresponding exemption notification. 3. During the relevant period, details of the licences/scrips

issued by the DGFT were not getting transmitted from the DGFT‟s

server to the Customs server. Instead, the licencee had to be bring

them to the Customs officers to get the details entered by a

Customs officer into the Customs Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)

system. Thereafter, as the Bills of Entry were assessed utilising the

licence, appropriate amounts would be debited from the licence in

the Customs EDI. At the time of clearance of the goods, the

licence/scrip had to be produced before the officer. 4. Based on intelligence, investigations were conducted by the

Customs officers and it was found Shri Sharafat Hussain alias

Sharafat Ali has been in the business of trading in these licences.

He also was also a G card holder in the Customs Broker M/s. Kirti

Cargo. Investigations further revealed that Shri Sharafat Hussain,

along with Shri Vinod Pathror, used the User IDs of the Customs

officers and entered wrong details of the licences in the Customs

EDI system enhancing the value of the duty free entitlement, by 4 C/52173-52174/2019

entering fake and forged licences and by entering the same licence

multiple times. Using such licences, several importers cleared their

consignments without paying duty. The appellant Nidhi is one of

such importers. Jain is a partner in Nidhi. 5. After completing the investigations, Show Cause Notice 11

dated 17.3.2017 was issued to the appellants covering the period

16.2.2013 to 3.6.2015 which culminated in the passing of the

impugned order confirming the demand of duty with interest and

imposition of penalties as discussed above. The operative part of

the order is as follows: Sharafat Hussain, „G‟ Card holder of M/s Kirti Cargo.

11 SCN 5 C/52173-52174/2019 (ix) I impose a penalty of Rs. 2,00,00,000/- (Rupees Two
 crores only) under Section 114AA of the Customs Act, 1962 on
 Sh. Sharafat Hussain, „G‟ Card holder of M/s Kirti Cargo. (x) I impose a penalty of Rs. 50,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty Lakh
 only) under Section 112(b)(ii) of the Customs Act, 1962 on Shri
 Vinod Kumar Parthror. (xi) I impose a penalty of Rs.2,00,00,000/- (Rupees Two
 Crores only) under Sections 114AA of the Customs Act, 1962 on
 Sh. Vinod Kumar Pathror for their acts of omission and
 commission discussed in the preceding para. (xii) I impose a penalty of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty
 Thousand only) under Section 112(a)(ii) of the Customs Act,
 1962 on, M/s Kirti Cargo as discussed in the preceding paras. (xiii) I do not impose any penalty under Section 114AA of the
 Customs Act, 1962 on M/s Kirti Cargo." 6. Learned counsel for the appellant made the following

submissions. a) No duty is payable by the appellant because Nidhi is a

 bonafide purchaser of the duty credit scrips and it was not

 aware of the modus operandi adopted by Shri Sharafat

 Hussain and Shri Pathror. It had purchased the scrips at a

 discount of 2% to 5% of the face value of the scrips and it

 had paid the purchase price through banking channels to Shri

 Sharafat Hussain. b) The SCN and the impugned order have not put forth any

 substantive evidence that the appellant was aware of the

 modus operandi. c) The department had registered FIRs against Shri Sharafat

 Hussain and Shri Pathror but not against the appellants. It

 shows that the department also accepted that the appellants

 were not involved in the fraud. d) It was not possible for the appellant to find out about the

 illegality committed with respect to the scrips and therefore,

 the appellant should not be asked to pay the duty. 6 C/52173-52174/2019 e) The appellant is a bonafide purchaser of scrips and hence no

 duty should be confirmed against it. Reliance is placed on the

 following case laws: No investigation has been carried out regarding the role of

 the officers. h) Thus, the SCN was pre-mature as the role of the officers was

 not investigated. i) In respect of five Bills of Entry, the scrips which were used

 fully covered the imports even if the illegally enhanced value

 in the system is ignored. The demand must be dropped to

 that extent. This resulted in an error in quantification to the

 extent of Rs. 16,58,705/-. 12 2007(219) ELT 73 (P&H)
13 2016(341)ELT A22(SC)
14 2016(340) ELT 625 (P&H)
15 2012(283) ELT 269(Tri-Del) 7 C/52173-52174/2019 j) Extended period of limitation was wrongly invoked as there

 was no fraud, mis-statement or suppression on the part of

 the appellants. k) No penalty should have been imposed on the appellant -

 Nidhi as it had imported goods in good faith. l) The partner in a firm and the firm are not separate entities

 and hence, no separate penalty should have been imposed on

 Jain, partner of Nidhi since a penalty has already been

 imposed on Nidhi. m) The SCN was issued without jurisdiction as it has been

 issued by the Commissioner of Customs (Export) ICD,

 Tughalkabad, Delhi and it has been adjudicated by

 Commissioner of Customs (Exports) Air Cargo Export, New

 Custom House, New Delhi. n) For the above reasons, the impugned order may be set aside

 in its entirety. 7. During hearing, learned counsel for the appellant submitted

that even if the benefit of the licences/scrips is denied to the

appellant following the principle „fraud vitiates everything‟, it is still

entitled to at least that portion of the exemption in the five bills of

entry where the legitimate limit of the exemption in the scrip was

still available. It is only the excess amount of credit which can be

denied. Further, since the appellant was not a party to the fraud

and there is no evidence of involvement of the appellant in the

fraud, penalties must be set aside. 8. On behalf of the respondent Revenue, learned authorized

representative made the following submissions. 8 C/52173-52174/2019 i) The period of violation is from 30/08/2013

 to26/02/2015 when there was no system of

 exchange of data between DGFT and Customs EDI

 and the genuineness of the scrips was to be verified

 from physical copies as per paragraph 3.11.3 of

 Chapter 3 of the Foreign Trade Policy. This system of

 verification of physical scrips was phased out much

 later after the system of online exchange of

 information between DGFT and Customs EDI was put

 in place and CBIC Circular No 11/2019 dated

 09/04/2019 was issued. ii) While the scrips were freely transferable in the

 market, Nidhi did not follow the procedures of

 buying, owning physical copy of the scrip, getting it

 registered, etc. and has relied totally on fraudsters

 for buying, registration and using them to pay the

 duty. iii) Fraud nullifies everything- whether it is carried out

 wilfully or recklessly. Nidhi cannot profit from the

 fraudulent scrips even if it is not the one which has

 committed the fraud and it was only negligent and

 careless while using the fraudulent scrips. iv) Nidhi used various Licences/duty free scrips mainly

 FPS and FMS which were issued to various exporters

 such as M/s K.S. Impex, M/s Best Exports, Sh.

 Durga Exports which it had purchased from M/s 9 C/52173-52174/2019

 Zealous Overseas Pvt. Ltd. floated by Sh. Sharafat

 Hussain. v) These licenses were forged with multiple

 registrations with other Ports, registration of non-

 existent Licenses, registration with enhanced value,

 etc. vi) Shri Jain, partner of Nidhi accepted that he had

 bought these licenses not from the exporter directly

 but through Shri Sharafat Hussain who would use

 the scrips to pay duty. He had not given any

 authorisation either to M/s Zealous International

 owned by Sh Hussian or even to the Custom House

 Agent M/s Kirti Cargo for clearance of goods through

 customs. He had accepted that it was mistake on his

 part to rely on Shri Hussain. vii) Jain also confirmed that they never had a copy of

 the licences/scripts which were utilised for payment

 of Customs Import duty, let alone verified them. The

 debit Notes/tax invoices issued by Shri Sharafat

 Hussain also do not mention which DEPB/FPS/FMS

 licences were sold to Nidhi. All these prove that

 Nidhi had not even taken the basic care of finding

 which licence/scrip it had purchased and whether the

 licence covers its duty liability or not and in which

 Bill of Entry it has used the licence to pay duty. A

 bonafide buyer should follow the concept of Caveat

 Emptor (i.e., Buyer Beware). C/52173-52174/2019 viii) As an importer, Nidhi could have filed its own Bills

 of Entry or authorised a licensed Customs Broker to

 file the Bills of Entry. In this case, the Bills of Entry

 were filed indicating M/s. Kirti Cargo as the Customs

 Broker. However, the Proprietor of M/s Kirti

 cargo Sh. Ramesh Chadha had accepted that he

 had sublet the CHA License to Shri Sharafat

 Hussain for a fixed amount of Rs 25,000/-per

 month. Nidhi neither authorised Kirti (the Customs

 Broker) nor Shri Sharafat Hussain who actually filed

 the bills of entry using the Customs broker ID of

 Kirti. ix) Nidhi never bought the licenses/ scrips from the

 licensee exporter or even from Sharafat Hussain nor

 has it verified if they were genuine. It relied totally

 on Sharafat Hussain to clear its consignments duty

 free using some licences. Sharafat Hussain, in turn,

 bought from the licences/scripts from the licensee

 exporters in the name of M/s Zealous Overseas Pvt. Ltd (in which he was a Director), forged/

 manipulated them in the Customs EDI system with

 the help of Shri Vinod Pathror who was not even an

 employee of the Customs Broker Kirti Cargo but

 posed as such. x) Shri Rajesh Kumar Jain , accountant of M/s K.S.

 Impex Ltd (RUD 20),original Exporter, in his

 statement dated 14.09.2016, stated that License No 11 C/52173-52174/2019

 0519001934, 0519001935, and 0519001145 were

 sold to M/s Zealous Overseas (Owner Sh Sharafat

 Hussain), which were, after being forged in terms of

 enhancement of value, used by M/s Nidhi

 Enterprises. xi) Similarly, M/s. Zealous Exims India (Director

 Sharafat Hussain) bought License No 0510389153

 dated 27/06/2014 from the exporter M/s Jechand

 Khushaldas Overseas Co. and fraudulently enhanced

 its value while entering in the Customs EDI from Rs

 7,19,837 to Rs 21,29,688/- was used to pay import

 duty for M/s Nidhi Enterprises. xii) Nidhi has submitted several invoices drawn by

 Shri Sharafat Hussain in the name of M/s Zealous

 Overseas purportedly for purchase of DEPB/FPS/FMS

 scrips by Nidhi. However, none of these even

 indicate the details of the scrip being sold and

 bought. All these invoices mention are the Bills of

 Entry in which scrips were used. The least anyone

 genuinely buying a scrip which entitles one to duty

 free import is expected to at least have an invoice

 for the possess a copy of the scrip. Nidhi had

 neither. Thus, the submission on behalf of Nidhi that

 the scrips were purchased in good faith cannot be

 accepted. xiii) Therefore, the demand of duty invoking extended

 period of limitation along with interest must be 12 C/52173-52174/2019

 sustained in this case. Similarly, the penalties

 imposed on Nidhi and Jain also need to be upheld. xiv) Imports under the Focus Product Scheme (FPS)

 are exempted by Notification No. 92 /2009 -

 Customs dated 11.09.2009. This exemption is

 available subject to some conditions including

 that said scrip is produced before the proper

 officer of customs at the time of clearance for

 debit of the duties leviable on the goods, but

 for this exemption. xv) Similarly, imports under the Focus Market

 Scheme (FMS) are exempted by Notification No. 93

 /2009 - Customs dated 11.09.2009. This exemption

 is available subject to some conditions including

 that said scrip is produced before the proper

 officer of customs at the time of clearance for

 debit of the duties leviable on the goods, but for this

 exemption. xvi) The Central Board of Excise and Customs16 issued

 circular no. 05/2010- Customs dated 16.03.2010

 regarding Verification of genuineness, of duty credit

 scrips issued under Chapter 3 of FTP, before

 registration. Paragraph 2(e) of this circular states as

 follows: xvii) This was reiterated in Board‟s circular no.

 17/2012 dated 5/7/2012. xviii) Paragraph 3.11.3 of the Handbook of Procedures

 (Vol. 1) of Foreign Trade Policy 2009-14 also

 required that the genuineness of the duty scrip must

 be verified by the Customs authorities before

 registering it. It reads as follows: C/52173-52174/2019

xix) Similarly, the Board‟s circulars for the earlier

 periods 68/2000, 72/2003, 8/2009 and 50/2011

 required the original licence covering the description

 and value of goods to be presented in case of TRA

 registration at the port of registration.

xx) Similar instructions were given in Board‟s circular

 14/2015 emphasising expeditious verification of the

 Shipping Bills or Bills of Export numbers while

 registering the scrip. 2/2012 issued by the office of Commissioner of

 Customs, ICD TKD N Delhi dated 03.02.2012 also

 provides the mechanism for original license to be

 presented before Customs Authorities for any

 amendment/ manual debit/ manual registration.

xxii) Standing Order No. 02 /2015 dated 02/11/2015

 issued by the Commissioner of Customs ICD TKD

 Export, in continuation of previous practice a

 detailed procedure has been outlined to be followed

 for verification and registration of scrips under

 chapter3 of the FTP Reward/incentive Schemes of

 FTP 2009-14 like FPS, FMS, VKGUY, SFIS and

 assessment of BOEs under GP VII where duty is

 sought to be paid through use of theses Scrips. As

 per Para (a) of the said Order the Original Scrip 15 C/52173-52174/2019

 issued by DGFT including its Annexure along with

 one photocopy and copies of BRCs shall be

 presented with Application in prescribed Format to

 the EA/TA in License section by License holder or his

 authorised representative. xxiii) Standing Order No 04/16 dated 30.05.2016

 issued by The Commissioner of Customs ICD TKD

 (Export) as per Para(i) has also provided such

 mechanisms for verification of scrips at pre-

 Registration stage including verifying the

 genuineness of such scrips with backing shipping

 Bills. xxiv) Thus, the Foreign Trade Policy and the

 Handbook of procedures under which the duty

 free scrips were issued required the physical

 copies of the licences to be verified before

 allowing clearances. The corresponding

 exemption notifications issued under the Customs Act also required such verification.

 Various circulars issued by the Board from time

 to time and the Standing Orders issued by the

 Commissionerate from time to time also

 required not only verification of the scrips but

 also the shipping bills and bills of export under

 which the goods have been exported against

 the licence/scrip. Thus, there was never any

 room for the importer to presume that the 16 C/52173-52174/2019

 goods could be cleared without paying duty

 without possessing and presenting a valid

 scrip. Not only did the appellant not have a

 scrip in its possession, it was also not aware as

 to which scrip it was buying. All the appellant

 did was ask Shri Sharafat Hussain to clear its

 goods without paying duty and paid a

 percentage of the duty so saved to Shri

 Sharafat Hussain. Thus, there is nothing in the

 entire documents to show good faith or

 genuine belief on the part of the appellant.

xxv) Therefore, the appellant cannot claim the benefit

 of the exemption notification even when the scrip

 has covered its duty liability in the case of any Bill of

 Entry. No physical copy of the scrip was produced at

 the time of clearance of the goods or else the fraud

 would have been detected. xxvi) The extended period of limitation has therefore,

 been correctly invoked and penalties have also been

 correctly imposed. xxvii) The partnership firm is different from the partners

 and therefore, imposition of penalty both on Nidhi

 (the partnership firm) and Jain (the partner) is

 sustainable. xxviii) Both appeals may therefore be dismissed. 17 C/52173-52174/2019 9. Learned authorised representative relied on the

 following case laws: 10. On the appellant‟s submission that the SCN was pre-

 mature as the role of the officers in the case was not

 investigated, learned authorised representative submitted

 that the role, if any, of the officers in this fraud is being

 investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation19 under

 relevant laws and the present appeal under the Customs Act is only with respect to the duty, interest and penalties on the

 importer. 11. On the appellant‟s submission that the SCN was issued

 without jurisdiction as it has been issued by the

 Commissioner of Customs (Export) ICD, Tughalkabad, Delhi

 and it has been adjudicated by Commissioner of Customs

17 2009(235) ELT 587(SC)
18 2005(184) ELT 339(Cal)
19 CBI 18 C/52173-52174/2019

(Exports) Air Cargo Export, New Custom House, New Delhi,

learned authorised representative submits that ICD,

Tughlakabad had only one Commissioner until Notification

No. 77/2014-Customs (NT) dated 16th September 2014 was

issued by the Government of India, inter alia, creating a

separate Commissioner (Export) in ICD Tughlakabad.

Commissioner (Export), ICD, Tughlakabad was, among

others, assigned the work pertaining to imports of goods

under various export promotion schemes such as the imports

in dispute in this appeal. Later, by public notice No. 5/2018

dated 9 April 2018, the work pertaining to imports under the

export promotion schemes was assigned to Commissioner

(Imports), ICD, Tughlakabad. The period relevant to this case

was 30 August 2013 to 30th June 2015 and the Show Cause

Notice dated 17 March 2017 was issued by Commissioner

(Export), ICD, Tughlakabad who was the jurisdictional

Commissioner. 12. As regards the adjudication of this show cause notice

by Commissioner of Customs (Export), New Custom House,

IGI Airport, New Delhi, he draws our attention to the first

paragraph of the impugned order which states that as per

Notification No. 91/2018-Customs (NT), dated 5.11.2018, the

Central Government delegated the powers of assigning cases

for adjudication to the Chief Commissioners. This notification

reads as follows: [F.No. 450/150/2017-Cus. -IV]

 (Zubair Riaz)
 Director (Customs) 13. By order no. 1/2018 dated 15.11.2018, the Chief

Commissioner had assigned the work of this adjudication to the

Commissioner of Customs (Exports), Air Cargo complex, New

Custom House, New Delhi who has adjudicated the matter. 14. We have considered the submissions from both sides. The

undisputed facts of the case are that Nidhi imported goods by 29

Bills of Entry as listed in the annexure to the show cause notice

using various duty free scrips/licenses which were issued in the

name of other persons/entities. Such licences/scrips were

transferable. Nidhi had not obtained physical copy of any of the

licences or scrips which it was supposed to have purchased. It was

also not aware as to which licence or scrip, if any, it had purchased.

The invoices which it received from firms of Shri Sharafat Hussain

also did not indicate which scrip or licence was being sold. 15. Nidhi imported goods and asked Shri Sharafat Hussain to

clear the goods by filing the Bills of Entry and paid a percentage of

the duty chargeable to Shri Sharafat Hussain. Shri Sharafat

Hussain, in turn, used fake or forged or manipulated licences/scrips

to pay duty online and clear the goods. Of the 29 Bills of Entry in

respect of 7 Bills of Entry the value of the licences was wrongly 20 C/52173-52174/2019

entered to a higher amount by Shri Sharafat Hussain along with

Shri Vinod Pathror in the Customs EDI system and they were used

to pay the duty. In respect of the remaining Bills of Entry, the

licences did not exist at all or were registered multiple times. The

fact that these frauds happened is undisputed. The submission of

the learned counsel for the appellant is that since it had not

committed the fraud and it had paid a percentage of the value of

duty payable to Shri Sharafat Hussain it should not be required to

pay the duty again and, therefore, the demand is not sustainable.

It is also the contention of the learned counsel that since it had not

committed the fraud the extended period of limitation has been

wrongly invoked by the Department in the show cause notice. 16. As an alternative submission, learned counsel submits in

respect of those Bills of Entry where the licence existed but its

value was enhanced in the Customs EDI system it should be

allowed the benefit of the scrips to the extent it was valid. 17. It is further the submission of the learned counsel that since

the fraud was committed within Customs EDI system which cannot

be accessed to enter the details of the scrips without user ID and

password of the customs officer there is every likelihood the

involvement of customs officials in the scam. Unless this is

investigated the show cause notice was premature. 18. It is further his submission that since the appellant is a

bonafide importer, no penalty should be imposed upon it when the

demand is confirmed. Further, it is the submission that the

appellant Nidhi is a partnership firm and Shri Jain is one of the 21 C/52173-52174/2019

partners and once the penalty has been imposed on the firm it

cannot also be imposed on the partner. For these reasons, learned

counsel prays that the impugned order may be set aside in its

entirety. 19. Learned counsel also questioned the jurisdiction of the officer

who issue the show cause notice and the officer who passed the

impugned order and relied on the judgment of Supreme Court in Cannon India Private Limited Vs. Commissioner of Customs20 to assert that the show cause notice and the impugned order were

issued without jurisdiction and hence are void. It is his submission

that the show cause notice has been issued by the Commissioner of

Customs (Export), ICD Tughlakabad, New Delhi demanding duty

payable at the time of import and it has been adjudicated by the

Commissioner of Customs (Export), Air Cargo Export, New

Customs House, New Delhi. 20. We first proceed to deal with the issue of the jurisdiction. A

perusal of the first paragraph of the impugned order clarifies the

position. Learned authorized representative further for the

Revenue also clarified that during the relevant period imports under

various export promotion scheme (commonly known as group-VII)

from ICD, Tughlakabad fell under the jurisdiction of Commissioner

of Customs (Export), ICD, Tughlakabad who issued the show cause

notice dated 17.3.2017. By Notification No. 91/2018-Cus (NT)

dated 5.11.2018 the Central Government has delegated the powers

to the Chief Commissioner to assign the work of adjudication to any

other Commissioner in his zone. Accordingly, order No. 1/2018 20 Civil Appeal No. 1827 of 2018 22 C/52173-52174/2019

dated 15.11.2018 was issued by the Chief Commissioner of

Customs (Delhi Zone) assigning the SCN herein to Commissioner of

Customs (Export), Air Cargo, New Delhi who adjudicated and

passed the impugned order. Therefore, the submission of the

learned counsel for the appellant on the question of jurisdiction is

misplaced. The judgment in Cannon India Limited was with

respect to the jurisdiction of the officers of the Directorate of

Revenue Intelligence21 to issue SCN under Section 28 of the Act.

In this case, the SCN was issued by the jurisdictional Commissioner

of Customs. This power of assigning any SCN for adjudication has

been delegated to the Zonal Chief Commissioner by the

Government. The Zonal Chief Commissioner had assigned this SCN

to the Commissioner of Customs (Export), Air Cargo, New Delhi

who passed the impugned order. We, therefore, find that the SCN

was issued and the impugned order was passed by an officer who

had the jurisdiction. We now proceed to deal with the substantive

issues. 21. The first question to be answered is that whether in a case

where forged or manipulated scrips or licences have been used for

clearance of goods and there is no evidence that the fraud was

committed by the importer, demand can been raised for the duty

on the importer and if so whether extended period of limitation can

also be invoked. This issue is no longer res integra and it has been

settled by the Supreme Court in M/s Munjal Showa Ltd. Vs.

Commissioner of Customs And Central Excise (Delhi-IV) And 21 DRI 23 C/52173-52174/2019

M/s Friends Trading Co. Vs. Union of India And Ors.22 . The

Supreme Court was seized of a matter where forge/fake DEPB

licences/scrips were used to pay duty on imported goods. After

completing investigation, show cause notices were issued invoking

the extended period of limitation which were challenged both on

the ground of limitation as well as on the ground that though the

scrips were forged, the importers had no intention to evade the

customs duty. The Commissioner of Customs passed orders

confirming the duty which was upheld by the Tribunal and the High

Court. Aggrieved, the appellant appealed to the Supreme Court

which upheld the confirmation of the demands invoking extended

period of limitation. However, insofar as the penalties were

concerned, Supreme Court held that whether the buyers had

knowledge of fraud or forged/fake DEPB licences/scrips and

whether the buyers were to take precautions to find out the

genuineness of the scrips which they had purchased would have a

bearing the imposition of penalty, though it has nothing to do with

the duty liability. For that purpose only the matter was remanded

to the adjudicating authority. Paragraphs 7 to 12 of this judgment

are reproduced below: 22 2022 (9) TMT 1076 - Supreme Court 24 C/52173-52174/2019 9. In that view of the matter and on the principle that fraud
 vitiates everything and such forged/fake DEPB
 licenses/Scripps are void ab initio, it cannot be said that the
 Department acted illegally in invoking the extended period
 of limitation. In the facts and circumstances, the
 Department was absolutely justified in invoking the
 extended period of limitation. 10. It is also required to be noted that the moment, the
 appellant(s) was/were informed about the fake DEPB
 licenses, immediately they paid the Customs Duty, may be
 under protest. The Customs Duty was paid under protest to
 avoid any further coercive action. Be that as it may, the fact
 remains that the DEPB licenses/Scripps on which the
 exemption was availed by the appellant(s) was/were found
 to be forged one and, therefore, there shall be a duty
 liability and the same has been rightly confirmed by the
 Department, which has been rightly confirmed by the
 Tribunal as well as the High Court. 11. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the buyer(s) - appellant(s) relying upon the decision of this Court in the
 case of Aafloat Textiles India Private Limited and Ors. (supra) is concerned, whether the buyer(s) had a knowledge
 about the fraud or the forged / fake DEPB licenses/Scripps
 and whether the appellant(s) - buyer(s) was/were to take
 requisite precautions to find out about the genuineness of
 the DEPB licenses/Scripps which they purchased, would
 have a bearing on the imposition of the penalty, and has
 nothing to do with the duty liability. It is to be noted that in
 the present case so far as the penalty proceedings are
 concerned, the matter is remanded by the Tribunal to the
 adjudicating authority, which is reported to be pending. 12. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above,
 both the appeals fail and are accordingly dismissed. As the
 penalty proceedings are reported to be pending pursuant to
 the remand order passed by the Tribunal, we direct the
 adjudicating authority to complete the penalty proceedings
 on remand, at the earliest preferably within a period of six
 months from today. With this, both the appeals are dismissed. No costs." 22. Similarly in the case of Mercedes Benz India Ltd. &

Others Vs. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, this Tribunal

in the Final Order Nos. 50031-50060/2020 dated 9.1.202023 upheld

the demand of duty on the importers where fraudulent/forged DEPB

scrips or licences were used. Respectfully following these

decisions, we hold that duty can be demanded from the importer

23 2020 (2) TMI 437 - New Delhi 25 C/52173-52174/2019

invoking extended period of limitation where fraudulent or forged

licences/scrips are used to clear the goods even if the importer

itself has not committed the fraud or forgery and even if there is no

evidence that the importer knew about it because „fraud vitiates

everything‟. 23. The alternative submission of the learned counsel for the

appellants in this case is that it should at least be allowed the

benefit of the licences/scrips which were not forged but whose

value was enhanced in the Customs EDI system to the extent the

licences were valid. To consider this submission, the conduct of the

importer and what precautions it had taken while purchasing and

using those licences/scrips must be examined. It is also important

to examine whether in terms of the relevant exemption notification

the appellant had fulfilled the conditions. 24. For every duty free scheme formulated by DGFT, a

corresponding exemption is issued under Section 25(1) of the

Customs Act, 1962. The notifications align with the corresponding

paragraphs of the Foreign Trade Policy and also spell out the

conditions subject to which the exemption notification is available.

For instance, Notification No. 92/2009-Cus. dated 11.09.2009

provided exemption from duty when the goods are imported into

India against a duty credit scrips issued under the Focus Product

Scheme (FPS) subject to some conditions. Condition No. 2 states

"that the said scrip is produced before the proper officer of

customs at the time of clearance for debit of the duties

leviable from the goods but for this exemption." Similarly

exemption Notification No. 95/2009-Cus. exempts goods imported 26 C/52173-52174/2019

against a duty credit scrip issued under the Vishesh Krishi and

Gram Udyog Yojana 24 as per paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of Foreign

Trade Policy. Condition No. 1 of this exempts reads; "that the

scrip has been issued to an exporter of products specified in

paragraphs 3.13.2 of the Foreign Trade Policy by the

Licensing Authority or Regional Authority and it is produced

before the proper officer of customs at the time of clearance

for debit of the duties leviable on the goods." 25. Similarly Notification No. 93/2009-Cus. exempts the goods

imported against a duty credit scrips issued under the Focus Market

Scheme (FMS) as per paragraph 3.14 of the Foreign Trade Policy.

Condition 2 of this exemption notification also states "that the

said scrip is produced before the proper officer of customs

at the time of clearance of the duties leviable on the goods,

but for the exemption." 26. Likewise, all exemption notifications under various schemes

require the scrip or licence to be presented before the proper

officer of customs at the time of clearance of the goods. It is also

undisputed that the scrips and licences were fully

transferable. After fulfilling the export obligation, the exporter

can transfer it of anybody else for a consideration. The buyer, then

steps into the shoes of the exporter and will have the same rights

of the licencee exporter. As may be seen in all the notifications, the

exporter was required to produce the scrip/licence at the time of

clearance of the goods. The buyer of the scrip/licence cannot

acquire any right over and above what was available to the

24 VKGUY 27 C/52173-52174/2019

exporter nor can he be placed in a better position than the

exporter. The irresistible conclusion is that buyer of the scrip also

has to produce the scrip or licence for debit at the time of clearance

of the goods. While an arrangement is made by the customs

Department to have an online ledger of the scrips since there was

no online transfer the data from DGFT to the Customs and a

mechanism of online verification to check the genuineness, the

scrip or licence had to be physically produced before the proper

officer at the time of clearance. This responsibility under the

exemption notifications and under the Foreign Trade Policy has

neither been diluted nor extinguished by the system of registration

of scrips/licences under the Customs EDI system. Any

arrangement for the registration in the Customs EDI system does

not, and cannot, in any way modify the conditions of exemption

notifications which have to be construed strictly as has been held

by the Supreme Court in the case of Commissioner of Customs

(Import), Mumbai Vs. Dilip Kumar25 and in case of any doubt,

the benefit of doubt must go in favour of the Revenue and against

the assessee. CBEC Circular No. 5/2010 and 17/2012 and various

public notices issued by the Commissionerate discussed above also

clarify this aspect again and again that the physical scrips/licences

must be produced. Learned authorized representative for the

Revenue submits that only in 2019 when a mechanism online

verification of the scrips/licences was introduced, the requirement

of physical scrips or licences done away with.

25 2018 (361) ELT 577 (SC) 28 C/52173-52174/2019 27. In this particular case, undisputedly the appellant has not

only NOT produced the scrips or licenses for verification or debit at

the time of clearance of the goods, but it was, in fact, oblivious of

which licences or scrip, if any, was purchased by it. The appellant

had only paid percentage of the duty payable to Shri Sharafat

Hussain who in turn, used this forged or value enhanced scrips to

clear the goods. There is no evidence of the transfer of scrips to

the appellant and certainly there is no evidence whatsoever that

the scrips/licences have been produced for physical verification

before the proper officer at the time of clearance of goods. 28. The question which needs to be answered is what has

actually been purchased by the appellant from Shri Sharafat

Hussain‟s firm in these cases if it had not purchased the

licences/scrips. None of the invoices produced before us indicate

any licence/scrip. They mention only the Bill of Entry number and

an amount which is a percentage of the amount of duty not paid in

that Bill of Entry. Effectively, the appellant purchased the benefit

of an exemption notification from Shri Sharafat Hussain and not

scrip/licence. 29. There is no provision to transfer the benefit of any

exemption either under the policy or any notification or any

provision of the law. The licences and scrips are

transferable and if they are transferred, the transferee

consequently gets the benefit of the exemption notification.

Without transferring the licence/scrip, the benefit of

exemption cannot be transferred. An example will further

clarify the difference. Indian Railways have now made tickets 29 C/52173-52174/2019

transferable between family members. When „A‟ buys a railway

ticket „A‟ earns a right to travel in a particular train on a date

between the stations and occupy the allotted berth/seat. If „A‟

transfers the ticket to his family member „B‟ the right to travel is

also transferred as a consequence. Without transferring the ticket,

„A‟ cannot simply say let „B‟ travel instead of me because the right

to travel flows from the ticket and cannot be separated from it. Just

like railway tickets, the licences/scrips issued by the DGFT are also

NOT bearer instruments which can be used by anyone to claim

exemption. They are issued to the licensees/scrip holder who can

freely transfer them to anybody else but without such a transfer,

the benefit of the exemption itself cannot be transferred. The

invoices issued by the companies owned by Shri Sharafat Hussain

to the appellant produced before us do not indicate that any

licence/scrip was transferred to the appellant Nidhi. Consequently,

Nidhi never had any licence/scrip with it nor was even aware as to

the benefit available under which licence/scrip issued to whom

and/or transferred who was used in the Bill of Entry was known to

the appellant. The question of producing the scrip or licence at the

time of clearing the goods does not arise as a consequence. As the

appellant had not fulfilled the requirements of either getting the

licence/scrip transferred to it or producing it at the time of

clearance as required under exemption notifications, we do not find

any reason to hold that the appellant is entitled to the benefit of

exemption notifications even to the extent that the manipulated

licence has covered part of the duty debited. 30 C/52173-52174/2019 30. Insofar as the demand of interest is concerned, interest

under Section 28AA follows from the demand under Section 28 of

the Customs Act. As we have held that the duty is payable the

interest liability follows. 31. Insofar as the imposition of penalty is concerned, it is the

contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that it was a

bonafide buyer of duty free scrips and, therefore, no penalties must

be imposed upon it. It is also the contention of the learned counsel

for the appellant that since the scam would not have been possible

without involvement of some customs officers, the show cause

notice is premature because the role of such officers has not been

investigated. As far as the role of the officers in the matter is

concerned, learned authorized representative submits that the

matter has been sent to the CBI who are investigating the matter.

We find that in respect of the appellant only duty, interest, fine and

penalty are relevant in this case but if any officers are involved, it

will be a much more serious matter which will have to be

investigated with respect to the violations of other laws such as Prevention of Corruption Act also. Investigation in this regard has

been handed over to CBI. Even if the officers were involved, it

does not, in any way, dilute the liability of the appellants in terms

of duty, interest or penalties. 32. Regarding the submission of learned counsel that since it is a

bonafide importer, no penalty should be imposed on it, we find that

the Supreme Court in the case of M/s Munjal Showa Ltd. has

dealt with this issue and in paragraph 11 of the judgment held that

the question as to whether the buyers had the knowledge about the 31 C/52173-52174/2019

fraud or forged licences and whether buyers were required to take

precautions to find out about the genuineness of the licences which

they have purchased would be bearing on the penalty. For that

purpose, the Supreme Court had remanded that matter to the

adjudicating authority. 33. We proceed to examine the question of penalty imposed upon

the appellant based on these two parameters: 34. We do not find any evidence of appellants‟ knowledge of

fraud or forgery of the scrips/licences in this case. However, as far

as the question of responsibility to take precautions and if such

precautions were taken are concerned, we agree with the learned

authorized representative that caveat emptor (Buyer Beware) is a

well established principle and it requires the buyer of any goods to

take reasonable precautions with respect to what he is buying.

When one is buying an instrument for lakhs of rupees and claiming

benefit of exemption from customs duty from it and such an

instrument is numbered and is issued by any authority, it would be

reasonable to expect that the buyer would know what instrument it

is buying from who and in whose name it was issued originally.

Even if one buys a car from another one would at least check the

registration number of the car, make, model, etc. In the present

case, none of purchase invoices produced by the appellant even

indicate the licence or scrip which the appellant bought. The

invoices show that the appellant bought the benefit of exemption 32 C/52173-52174/2019

which is not transferable and it had not bought the licences/scrips

which were transferable. For this reason, the appellant neither

received physical licences/scrips nor has it produced at the time of

claiming the benefit of the exemption. Effectively, so far as the

appellant is concerned instead of paying duty to Government

exchequer it had paid a percentage of the amount

equivalent to the duty to the firms of Shri Sharafat Hussain.

Shri Sharafat Hussain, in turn, used manipulated/forged licences to

clear the Bills of Entry. In our considered view, this does not even

remotely meet the requirement of caveat emptor. Under these

circumstances, we find no reason to hold that the appellant was a

genuine buyer of licences/scrips and had purchased them in good

faith. 35. Penalty of an amount equal to the duty not paid was imposed

on Nidhi under section 114A . This is a mandatory penalty

imposable when a demand invoking extended period of limitation

and since we have upheld the confirmation of the demand invoking

extended period of limitation, we also uphold the imposition of

penalty under section 114A . 36. Penalty of Rs.10,00,000 under section 112(a) (ii) and penalty

of Rs. 1,00,000 under section 114AA were imposed on Jain, partner

of Nidhi. The fifth proviso to section 114A reads as follows: 37. Penalty under section 112(a) (ii) on Jain (the partner) and

penalty under section 114A on Nidhi (the partnership firm) in this

case arise out of the same cause of action and therefore, penalty 33 C/52173-52174/2019

under section 112 cannot be sustained as penalty has been

imposed under section 114A which we have upheld. 38. Penalty under section 114AA is imposable only if knowingly

or intentionally a false declaration, statement or document is

made, signed or used. This section reads as follows: 39. In the factual matrix of this case, we find that there is no

evidence that Nidhi or its partner Jain had knowledge of the

fraud/forged licences/ scrips being used to clear the goods and

therefore, the penalty under section 114AA cannot be sustained. 40. In view of the above, the impugned order is upheld except to

the extent of imposition of penalties on Shri Jain. Customs Appeal

No. 52173 of 2019 filed by M/s. Nidhi Enterprises is rejected.

Appeal No. 52174 of 2019 filed by Shri Sudarshan Kumar Jain is

allowed and penalties of Rs. 10,00,000 under section 112(a) (ii) and of Rs. 1,00,000 under section 114AA imposed on him are set

aside with consequential benefits, if any, to him. (Pronounced in open Court on 16.11.2022)

 (Justice Dilip Gupta)
 President

 (P.V. Subba Rao)
 Member (Technical)
RM