SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of OTT Subscription Scams on Instagram!
DATE: 2024-07-12
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1e1h1ii/beware_of_ott_subscription_scams_on_instagram/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey Reddit family, 
I wanted to share an incident that happened to me recently to help others avoid falling for similar scams.

**TL;DR:** I tried purchasing a cheap Netflix subscription from an Instagram reseller, suspected it was a scam, confirmed my suspicions after losing some money, and want to warn others about these scams.

---

So, recently, for the last couple of weeks, I was getting ads on Instagram and even on my WhatsApp (from some resellers) to buy OTT platform subscriptions at a cheap rate. Today, I finally decided to try this out. Although I suspected it was a scam, I thought, "Let's give it a try and see how they usually scam people."

My search started on Instagram. I liked a couple of posts that said "Buy OTT at a cheaper rate." After liking a few, I refreshed my feed on Instagram, and guess what? Instagram started suggesting sponsored posts from such accounts. Feels like beggars have now become rich, haven't they? Still, I checked a few posts and saw this account on Instagram with the ID "ottbuycheap31." This guy that goes by the name "Deepak Kumar Mahato" (as per his GPAY account) offered the cheapest rates among all the ads I saw on Instagram. He also had around 1.8k followers, and the account was created in 2023. So, I thought, "Let's experiment with this guy." I messaged him, and he sent me the Netflix plans list:

* 6 Months - 4K Quality - 4 Screens - Just @ ₹299

He even claimed that the activation would be done on a private email (seemed pretty impossible), but still... let's give it a try.

I clarified all the details: the duration, the quality, the number of screens, and the price. Initially, I paid him just ₹199 to see if he would run away with the money. Pretty blunt move, but I thought, "Why not check it?" He had mentioned the price for Netflix was ₹299.

“Okay, he hasn’t blocked me yet,” I thought. So, I sent him the remaining ₹100. Now, I was waiting for him to block me... but guess what, he didn't. He told me to wait for 10 minutes, and he would activate it on my email. I sent him my email.

For a moment, I wondered, "Is he really going to do it? If yes, how? I mean, Netflix isn't that cheap in any other country either..."

10 minutes later, he messaged, "I am trying to do the payment, but it's asking for GST. I need ₹67 more."

I mean, who asks for GST for a scam service? Pretty privileged scammer, I would say. Nevermind, I hesitated at first, but to proceed further, I gave him the ₹67 and BOOM. He was gone.

The account changed to "Instagram User" in a fraction of a second. I checked from my ALT account, and he was active there. I got blocked, which I already knew from the start.

I did this because I was curious after getting these messages for almost a year, and today I finally thought to give it a try. Although I knew it was a scam, as such things never exist, I still gave it a try (with the least risk involved).

Maybe this post will educate others to stay away from such scams, even if they seem 100% trustworthy. If you want Netflix, better share the password and create a common group to rotate the home account. But never trust such sellers.

For proof, I have attached a long screenshot that has my chat with him on Instagram, his QR code (created on a website called "FamApp", which is like an online bank account that gives you a UPI ID and a card), and also my payment to him on Google Pay. I will not hide his name. Why should I? If he can scam innocent people without any shame, why can't we expose his name (even if it's fake) on social media?

Be safe, guys :)

Screenshot Here:

https://preview.redd.it/u8wahr8b53cd1.png?width=578&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=7b0b9c60b4a8674bcf4d72f1884b69a0583c2c88