% 03.04.2024 1. Present public interest petition has been filed seeking directions to the
 Union of India to ensure that the travel companies, particularly foreign
 travel companies, which collect personal data, including name, address,
 phone number, Aadhaar, passport details etc. during ticket booking are kept
 completely confidential and not shared with anyone. 2. The Petitioner, who appears in person, states that foreign travel
 companies not only collect the data of common man but also collect the
 personal data of law makers, ministers, judges, defence personnel, civil
 servants and their family members. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2024 at 23:07:05 3. He further states that at least three major foreign travel companies,
 which are running their operations in India, are partially or fully owned by
 foreign investors, leading to concerns regarding potential misuse of citizens'
 data, especially the Aadhaar and passport details. 4. A perusal of the paperbook reveals that the Petitioner has not filed any
 representation with the Union of India before approaching this Court. 5. Consequently, the present writ petition is disposed of with liberty to
 the Petitioner to raise its grievances with the Union of India. In the event
 such a representation is filed, the same is directed to be decided by way of a
 reasoned order in accordance with law as expeditiously as possible. This
 Court clarifies that it has not commented on the merits of the issue. The
 rights and contentions of all the parties are left open. ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

 MANMEET PRITAM SINGH ARORA, J
 APRIL 3, 2024/TS

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2024 at 23:07:05