These are the first applications filed under Section 439 of
Cr.P.C. by the applicants who are in custody from 25.1.2021 and
22.1.2021 respectively in connection with Crime No.267/2020
registered at Police Station Cyber Cell, Indore concerning offence
under Sections 420 of the IPC and u/s. 66D of the Information
Technology Act. 2. Mr. Yashwant Yadav, has lodged the FIR in the Police
Station Cyber Cell, Indore on 29.12.2020 at 19.08 hours disclosing
that he is working as Manager at Punjabi Jewelry shop. On
3.12.2020, near about at 1.23 the owner received a phone call of
Varun Mehta, Shilpi Jewelers, Delhi that he is in need of Rs.4.00 - : 2 :- Except memorandum u/s. 27 of the Evidence Act, nothing
incriminating material has been collected from them. Though the
various cases under the IPC are already registered against them, no
criminal case under the Information Technology Act has ever been
committed against them. No further custodial interrogation is
required and no further recovered is to be made from them. As of
today, the entire amount has been recovered. They, therefore, pray
that the applicants be released on bail. 4. On the other hand, the learned Panel Lawyer opposes the
prayer for grant of bail by submitting that the applicants are habitual
offenders as the number of cases are registered against them. The
investigation is still pending, hence they are not to be released on
bail. 5. Shri Vivek Singh, learned counsel appearing for the
complainant also opposes the prayer by submitting that the applicants
are habitual offenders as the number of criminal cases are registered
against them in Maharashtra and Rajsthan state. The investigation is
still pending. All the applicants are residents of out of Madhya
Pradesh and if they are released on bail, they shall not appear before
the trial Court. - : 4 :- 6. As per the Police - Prativedan sent to the Office of
Advocate General, the entire amount of Rs. 4 lakhs has been
recovered from the present applicants. According to them, on the
basis of forged ID, they got sim and after committing the offence,
they have destroyed the mobile sets, therefore, offence u/s. 201 of the
IPC has been added. Mor Singh and Narendra Singh are habitual
offenders and various cases at Mumbai and Jaipur are registered
against them. In the 'Prativedan', the Dy. Superintendent of Police
has not mentioned that any further custody of the present applicants
is required. According to the complainant, he made the payment of Rs.4.00
Lakhs at Delhi. Neither the complainant nor owner of the Jewellery
shop Sumit Anand has disclosed as to how they made the payment of
Rs.4.00 Lakhs at Delhi. They have also not disclosed as to whom
they directed to make the payment to Vipul Mehta. It is also under
secret that the complainant has transferred the amount to the
unknown person who made payment to Vipul Mehta Delhi on the
complainant's call. According to the complainant, Vipul Mehta has
denied about calling the complainant and receiving any payment.
The police are also required to investigate the link as to how the
complainant arranged for payment of Rs.4.00 Lakhs. Unless the link
of payment of Rs.4.00 Lakhs is established by the complainant or
Sumit Anand , it cannot be said that the applicants have cheated the
complainant. Therefore, the Investigating Officer is directed to make
an investigation in the aforesaid direction also. 7. The police have not collected any material to establish
that the applicants have obtained the sim by forging identity. In view
of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, without - : 5 :- 8. Before releasing the applicants, the jail authorities are
directed to medically examine them to rule out the possibility of
Covid -19 infections and shall comply with the direction given by the
Hon'ble Apex Court in Writ Petition No. 1/2020. C.C. as per rules. ( VIVEK RUSIA )
 JUDGE
Alok/- Date: 2021.03.24 17:13:51 +05'30'