The US state of New Mexico has filed a lawsuit against Snap for allegedly promoting explicit material involving children and facilitating sextortion and the trafficking of children, drugs and guns. The lawsuit takes aim at Snapchat’s algorithm and claims that it facilitates contact between children and predators. “Snap and Snapchat are among one of the most pernicious purveyors of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) and harm-inducing features on children’s electronic devices,” said the lawsuit.

“Snapchat is a breeding ground for predators to collect sexually explicit material of children and to find, groom and extort them,” says the lawsuit. It also claims that “nearly every aspect of the service is designed to attract and addict young people.”

The complaint claims that Snap caused harm to teenagers through deliberate choices and a disregard for safety. These include failing to properly enforce age restrictions, preventing effective parental controls and allowing predators to identify, contact and groom children. It also claims that Snapchat designed algorithms that connected predators with children and creating a virtual market for drugs and guns. The state also chastised Snap for allegedly failing to inform parents about the risks of their app and creating highly addictive features.

The state plans to bring action against the platform through the Unfair Practices Act and asking for a USD 5000 fine for each violation.

New Mexico had previously filed a lawsuit against Meta for similar reasons, claiming that it failed to protect underage users from exposure to CSAM and allowed adults to contact them inappropriately. Such cases represent a growing popular discontent against tech platforms over concerns about child safety and addiction. New Mexico isn’t the only state to go down this route as New York passed a bill in June earlier this year that prohibited social media platforms from using “addictive” recommendation algorithms for child users. The California Senate had also approved a similar act titled “Protecting Our Kids from Social Media Addiction Act.”

These developments follow a ‘ Ban or Divest ‘ act passed by Congress against TikTok. where app stores will have to delist TikTok unless its parent company sells it off.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event