SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My take on why sexual assault cases against men aren't reported as much in media
DATE: 2024-08-21
SCORE: 53
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1exsvjz/my_take_on_why_sexual_assault_cases_against_men/

--- POST TEXT ---

Aside from the low incidence rate, it's because even assaults are men are mainly being done by... men. 

When something reprehensible happens, who do you protest against? You protest against what demographic puts them in a position of power as compared to the victim.

When a man was sexually assaulted by Suraj Revanna, people did raise their voice and it became a national issue. But it was against politicians, because the position of inequality that caused this assault was that the perpetrator being from a powerful political family. If a rich dude runs over a wage-slave after partying and runs off scot-free (Essays notwithstanding), the protest is against the rich, because that is what really is the reason for the atrocity.

When a woman gets assaulted by a man, often it's just because a man can do it. It also makes them the largest minority to be so widely assaulted. No matter how powerful of a woman you are, no matter what age, rape is always a possibility. It also means you have to live your life fearing most people around you. Its not even been 10 years since some modicum of equality has been achieved in our cities.

Now, some people might remark thusly

*"There are hundreds of false rape cases, false dowry cases, false sexual harassment cases filed against men everyday and men go through a lot and the society doesn't even support these man they will be looked down because of the false cases."*

These do happen, but the proportion and severity is much different. The shame of being accused of rape is a great deal lower than the shame and consequences of being raped. The consequences of dowry harassment... well, there are many victims burn deaths whose cases are still being investigated. It is simply the severity of it.

As well as the incidence of it. The number of fake rape and fake dowry cases is often conflated with number of cases where no conviction happens. It's a huge fallacy, because the if the victim is killed, or the witnesses stop attending or the evidence is lost, that is a case without conviction. And if you do get raped, you often have to recount how the rape happened, repeatedly. Lawyers often ask questions along the lines of "were you wet" and "Did you enjoy it", as well as asking what position they were held in.

Add to that the fact that as a country, we have 1% reporting rate. Even among those cases, our conviction rate is just 26%. Meaning that in 10,000 cases of actual rape, only 26 of the perpetrators ever get justice.

And for the haters:

I get your worries brothers, I truly do, because fake rape, fake dowry cases will usually only affect people who are not guilty of the crime. But that is a side effect of any protective legislation. The rhetoric you are using, is used by everyone in power. Companies often say that workers misuse labour laws against the companies for their own benefit. The rich claim that the poor are leeches draining the society while contributing nothing.

But the thing about the timing of posts which make claims of men being the real victims, and your intention which is the worst thing, is that you only make them when a woman has been brutally raped and murdered. You make these posts not because you care about assaults on men. You make these post because you want to counter the outcry against men coming from women, And that is what is disingenuous. That is what really takes the weight behind your arguments. If it was an issue half as prevalent as you thought it was, it'd be posted on websites all day everyday by all men. That is what women do.

As a dude, I want there to be equality. If the actual incidences of rape were low, it'd be much easier to catch the women filing fake cases. But as it stands, there's an ocean of real cases hiding the stream of fake cases. So all we can do is be decent ourselves, and also be reasonable aware of what we are doing, so as to not get trapped.