The amendments introduced by the State WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 2 Government to the Kerala Minimum Wages Rules (the Rules)

framed under the Minimum Wages Act (the Act) in terms of the

Kerala Minimum Wages (Amendment) Rules, 2015 (the

Amendment Rules), are under challenge in this batch of writ

petitions. W.P.(C) No.18055 of 2016, in which the State has

filed the counter affidavit, is treated as the lead case for the

disposal of the matters. 2. In terms of the Amendment Rules, the State

Government has introduced an information technology enabled

Wage Protection System for ensuring payment of minimum

wages to the employees in the scheduled employments

specified in the Appendix to the Rules. The Amendment Rules,

among others, mandate the employers of the scheduled

employments specified in the Appendix to upload into the Wage

Protection System provided by the Labour Commissionerate a

Register of Employment and Wages in Form XIV three days

prior to the payment of wages to their employees, issue wage

slip to all employees through the Wage Protection System at WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 3 least a day prior to the payment of wages and effect payment

of wages to the employees through their individual bank

accounts. The petitioners challenge the Amendment Rules on

various grounds. Before dealing with the grounds of challenge

raised by the petitioners, it is apposite to refer to the pleadings

of the petitioners for comprehending their grievance. 3. The pleadings of the petitioners in the writ

petitions are almost on the same lines and therefore, it is

suffice to refer to the pleadings of the petitioners in the lead

case. The petitioner therein is an association of Private

Hospitals. Their case in the writ petition is that the

Amendment Rules is not merely cumbersome and unworkable,

the same is also destructive of the business interests of the

members of the petitioner association. It is also their case that

the Register of Employment and Wages introduced in terms of

the Amendment Rules forces the establishments to divulge and

expose private and confidential data. According to the

petitioner, the purpose of the Act being only to ensure payment WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 4 of minimum wages, the requirements in terms of the

Amendment Rules to upload data which are extraneous to the

purposes of the Act, is ultra vires the Act. It is alleged by the

petitioner that disclosure of confidential information including

salary packages of specialised personnel including doctors

would adversely affect private hospitals, as the same is likely to

create a situation of specialised personnel being poached upon

by other players in the field, thus leading to chaos, instability

and confusion in the sector. It is also alleged by the petitioner

that disclosure of sensitive employee and management

information would also lead to loss of employee trust,

confidence and loyalty which will inevitably result in loss of

productivity. According to the petitioner, such information

being of a confidential nature, if the same is allowed to be

publically accessed, it would lead to violation of the right of the

members of the petitioner association to protect their trade

secrets and business strategies which, in turn would violate the

rights of the members of the petitioner guaranteed under WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 5 Article 19(1) of the Constitution. 4. The pleadings of the State Government comprise

of the statement dated 30.05.2016 filed in W.P.(C) No.18055 of

2016, the affidavit filed in the said case dated 04.06.2016 as

also the counter affidavit filed in the said matter dated

10.07.2017. It is stated, among others, by the State

Government in its pleadings that the Wage Protection System

aims at ensuring and monitoring disbursement of minimum

wages to employees working in scheduled employments

specified in the Appendix to the Rules through their bank

accounts, without conducting inspections at the establishments.

It is stated that though minimum wages for employees in

different sectors have been fixed, several employers refuse to

comply with the norms and compel their staff to work for

meagre salaries and the Wage Protection System has been

mooted in the wake of a flood of complaints received by the

Government in this regard. It is stated that by implementing

the Wage Protection System, compliance of the provisions of WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 6 the Act can be ensured and the grievances of the employees

can be redressed to a greater extent. With reference to the

averments made by the petitioner in W.P.(C) No.18055 of 2016,

it is stated in the pleadings by the State Government that the

Amendment Rules do not cast upon employers any obligation to

make disclosures of private employee information; that the

data furnished in terms of the Amendment Rules by the

employers are not accessible to public; that the same can be

viewed only by the employer and the inspectors concerned;

that even the employers and the inspectors concerned can log

on to the system only by using the unique user ID and password

allotted to them; that an employee cannot view the salary

details of other employees in the establishment; that similarly

an employer cannot also access the data uploaded by other

employers; that only encrypted data is transferred to the banks

and that therefore, the question of misuse of the data furnished

by an employer does not arise at all. As regards the access the

officers have over the data furnished by the employers, it is WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 7 stated that they are otherwise empowered in terms of the

provisions of the Act to access the data by conducting

inspections in the premises of the establishments. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners as

also the learned State Attorney. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioners

contended that some of the provisions of the Amendment Rules

are contrary to the provisions of the Act and the rest are far

beyond the scope of the Act. Placing reliance on Section 11 of

the Act, it was contended by the learned counsel that in so far

as Section 11 of the Act mandates payment of minimum wages

in cash, the Wage Protection System which mandates payment

of minimum wages otherwise than in accordance with Section

11 of the Act, is ultra vires the Act. It was also contended by

the learned counsel, placing reliance on Section 6 of the

Payment of Wages Act that the State Government cannot take

away the discretion of the employers to effect payment of

wages either by cheque or by crediting the wages in the bank WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 8 account of the employees and the Amendment Rules, in so far

as it compels the employers to effect payment of wages by

crediting the wages in the bank account of the employees is

repugnant to Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act and

therefore, repugnant to the scheme of the Act as well and ultra

vires the Act in that sense too. Placing reliance on Section 18 of

the Act, it was also contended by the learned counsel that the

Act provides for maintenance of registers and records only in

physical form and the provisions in the Amendment Rules

directing maintenance of registers and records in electronic

media are also ultra vires the Act. It was also contended by the

learned counsel that most of the mandatory information sought

in terms of Form XIV to be uploaded have nothing to do with

the Act nor its objective and that therefore, Form XIV, in so far

as it relates to matters not covered by the Act are substantively

ultra vires. It was further contended by the learned counsel

that the provision introduced in terms of the Amendment Rules

which mandates submission of Register of Employment and WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 9 Wages three days prior to the crediting of wages in the

individual bank account of the employees and insistence to

issue electronically generated wage slips to all employees at

least a day prior to the date of effecting payment of wages, are

contrary to Section 18 of the Act providing for maintenance of

registers and records, after effecting payment of wages and

hence ultra vires the Act. It was further contended by the

learned counsel that the definition of wages vary from statute

to statute, depending upon the purpose, scope and ambit of the

enactment and the requirement in terms of Amendment Rules

to furnish details of the payments effected under other statutes,

would therefore, create confusion, lack of clarity and ambiguity.

It was further contended by the learned counsel that the

petitioners who have operations beyond the territory of the

State and who have centralized wage payment system in place,

the provisions in the Amendment Rules which oblige them to

furnish details exclusively for the employees in the State, is

cumbersome and troublesome. It was further contended by the WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 10 learned counsel that only six employments in the scheduled

employments are included in the Appendix to the Rules and

there are absolutely no reason for excluding other scheduled

employments from the requirement of the Wage Protection

System. According to the petitioners, the Amendment Rules is,

therefore, discriminatory too. It was further contended by the

learned counsel that it is easy to access data from any system

in today's digitized world and therefore, the requirement to

provide sensitive information like salary, allowances, etc. of the

employees to a public information system, would be prejudicial

to the interests of the employers. 7. Per contra, the learned State Attorney pointed out

that having regard to the objections raised by the employers,

the Rules have been further amended in terms of the Kerala

Minimum Wages (Amendment) Rules, 2017 by which columns

25, 27 and 28 have been deleted from Form XIV introduced in

terms of the Amendment Rules. According to the learned State

Attorney, if one looks at the remaining provisions of the WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 11 Amendment Rules, in light of the amendment introduced to Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act, the provisions

contained in the Information Technology Act as also the

provisions of the Rules already in vogue, none of the provisions

of the Amendment Rules would be ultra vires the statute. 8. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the

contentions raised by the learned counsel on either side. 9. Before dealing with the contentions of the parties,

it will be beneficial to remind myself of the grounds on which a

subordinate legislation, as in the instant case, could be

challenged in a proceedings of this nature. A quote of the

passages dealing with the principles from the decision of the

Apex Court in State of T.N. v. P.Krishnamuthy [(2006) 4

SCC 517] is suffice, according to me, for the purpose. The

following are the passages dealing with the principles in the

said decision of the Apex Court: 16. The court considering the validity of a subordinate
 legislation, will have to consider the nature, object and scheme
 of the enabling Act, and also the area over which power has
 been delegated under the Act and then decide whether the
 subordinate legislation conforms to the parent statute. Where a
 rule is directly inconsistent with a mandatory provision of the
 statute, then, of course, the task of the court is simple and
 easy. But where the contention is that the inconsistency or
 non-conformity of the rule is not with reference to any specific
 provision of the enabling Act, but with the object and scheme of WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 13 the parent Act, the court should proceed with caution before
 declaring invalidity. In the light of the aforesaid principles, the petitioners are

certainly entitled to challenge the Amendment Rules on the

ground that the same do not conform to the Act as also that the

same is issued exceeding the limits of the authority conferred

by the Act. The question, therefore, is whether the petitioners

have succeeded in establishing their case that the Amendment

Rules do not conform to the Act or that the same is exceeding

the limits of authority conferred by the Act. I shall now move

on to consider the contentions of the parties. 10. It is beyond dispute that payment of wages to

employees including the employees in the scheduled

employments under the Act is governed by the Payment of

Wages Act, 1936 . Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act prior

to Act 1 of 2017 provided that all wages shall be paid in current

coin or currency notes or in both. Section 6 of the Payment of WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 14 Wages Act has been amended in terms of Act 1 of 2017. The

amended Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act provides now

that all wages shall be paid in current coin or currency notes or

by cheque or by crediting the wages in the bank account of the

employee. The proviso to the amended Section 6 of the

Payment of Wages Act clarifies that the appropriate

government may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify

the industrial or other establishment, the employer of which

shall pay to every person employed in such industrial or other

establishment, the wages only by cheque or by crediting the

wages in his bank account. It is seen that pursuant to the

aforesaid amendment introduced to Section 6 of the Payment

of Wages Act, the State Government has specified in terms of

Ext.R1(b) notification that the employers of scheduled

employments included in the Appendix to the Rules shall pay to

every person employed in such employments wages only by

cheque or by crediting the wages in his bank account. Section

11 of the Act has to be understood in the light of the provision WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 15 contained in Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act. Section

11 of the Act reads thus: (2) Where it has been the custom to pay wages wholly or partly in

 kind, the appropriate Government being of the opinion that it is

 necessary in the circumstances of the case may, by notification in

 the Official Gazette, authorize the payment of minimum wages

 either wholly or partly in kind. (3) If the appropriate Government is of the opinion that provision

 should be made for the supply of essential commodities at

 concession rates, the appropriate Government may, by notification

 in the Official Gazette, authorize the provision of such supplies at

 concession rates. (4) The cash value of wages in kind and of concessions in respect

 of supplies of essential commodities at concession rates authorized

 under sub-sections (2) and (3) shall be estimated in the prescribed

 manner. If Section 11 of the Act is understood in the background of Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act, it is clear that Section WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 16 11 of the Act is only a provision dealing with payment of wages

in kind in contradistinction to payment of wages in cash. The

contention of the petitioners that the provision in the

Amendment Rules which obliges the employers to effect

payment of wages through the bank account of the employees

is repugnant to Section 11 of the Act is, therefore,

unsustainable. It is all the more so since the provision in Section 11 of the Act is that the minimum wages shall be paid

in cash and not in current coin or currency note as stipulated in

the unamended Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act. The

contention raised by the petitioners is unsustainable also for

the reason that effecting payment of wages through the bank

account of the employee is also a mode of payment in cash, in

contradistinction to a mode of payment in kind. 11. The contention of the petitioners that in so far

as the Amendment Rules which compel the employers to effect

payment of wages by crediting the wages in the bank account

of the employees is repugnant to Section 6 of the Payment of WPC.No.18055/16 & con.cases 17 Wages Act , the same is repugnant to the scheme of the Act also

and hence ultra vires the Act, according to me, is equally

unsustainable. Section 6 of the Payment of Wages Act reads

thus: