made to the Customs have admitted to the
roles played by them in defrauding the
revenue. I also find that none of the concerned
persons have retracted their statements at any
point of time, which lead to a conclusion that
they were engaged in carrying/dealing with
the goods i.e. gold jewellery which they knew
are liable for confiscation. In view of the above
undisputed fact that penalty under the
provisions of Section 112 of the Customs Act,
1962 becomes imposable on them. 82. I also find that so far as the penalties under Section 114AA are concerned, these are imposable if
a person knowingly or intentionally makes, signs or
uses or causes to be made, signed or used, in a
declaration, statement or document which is false or
incorrect in any material particular, in the
transaction of any business for the purpose of the Customs Act . Accordingly, considering the facts of
the case where the export bound gold jewellery has
been tried to and has actually been diverted to the
domestic area thereby blatantly misusing the
documentation made for the purpose of custom
clearance tantamount to making a false or incorrect
statement which falls under the acts of omission and 8 C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020

 commission categorized under Section 114AA of the
 Customs Act, 1962. The roles played by each and
 every person in committing the fraud and
 misusing the beneficial provisions of
 Notification No. 57/2000-Cus, as detailed
 above, do not leave any doubt on the mala-fide
 intentions of the concerned persons that the
 same was being done with the sole motive of
 unjustly enriching themselves and therefore
 penalty under the given section is also
 impossible in the present case." (emphasis supplied) 10. Shri J.M. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants assisted by Ms.

Pooja Aggarwal submitted that there is no evidence on record to suggest

that the appellants facilitated the diversion of export bound jewellery for

domestic use. In any case, penalties under sections 112 and 114AA of the

Customs Act could not have been imposed upon the appellant as the show

cause notice does not allege any fault in the documents prepared by

appellants and the appellant also had no knowledge or reason to believe

that the gold jewellery would be handed over by the international

passengers to the domestic passengers. Learned counsel also submitted

that the impugned order is based on statements made by various persons

under section 108 of the Customs Act regarding the modus operandi, but

these statements cannot be considered as relevant for the purpose of

proving the facts since the procedure contemplated under section 138B of

the Customs Act was not followed. In support of this contention learned

counsel placed reliance upon a decision of the Tribunal in M/s. Drolia

Electrosteel P. Ltd. vs. Commissioner, Customs, Central Excise &

Service Tax, Raipur 5. 5. Excise Appeal No. 52612 of 2018 decided on 30.10.2023 9 C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020 11. Shri C. Dhanasekharan, learned special counsel appearing for the

department, however, supported the impugned order and submitted that

it does not call for any interference in this appeal. Learned special counsel

submitted that the appellants facilitated the diversion of the export bound

gold jewellery to the domestic area and they had a role in the preparation

of the documents. 12. The submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellants

and the learned special counsel appearing for the department have been

considered. 13. It is seen that certain manufacturer of gold jewellery had availed

benefit of a Scheme called "Export Against Supply by Nominated Agencies" 14. The relevant portion of the Notification, as it stood prior to

15.05.2015, is reproduced below: (emphasis supplied) 20. After examining various judgments of the High Courts and the

Tribunal, the Tribunal observed as follows: (emphasis supplied) 21. The same view was taken by this Bench in Drolia Electrosteel. The

Tribunal, while examining the provisions of section 9D of the Central

Excise Act, held: Therefore, all the statements are not relevant to the
 proceedings. 15. It has been held in a catena of
 judgments including Jindal Drugs Pvt. Ltd.
 versus Union of India [2016 (340) E.L.T. 67 16 C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020

(P&H)] that section 9D is a mandatory
provision and if the procedure prescribed
therein is not followed, statements cannot be
used as evidence in the proceedings under Central Excise Act . The relevant extracts are as
follows: 15. Once discretion, to be judicially exercised
 is, thus conferred, by Section 9D, on the
 adjudicating authority, it is selfevident
 inference that the decision flowing from the
 exercise of such discretion, i.e., the order
 which would be passed, by the adjudicating
 authority under Section 9D, if he chooses to
 invoke clause (a) of subsection (1) thereof,
 would be pregnable to challenge. While the
 judgment of the Delhi High Court in J&K
 Cigarettes Ltd. (supra) holds that the said
 challenge could be ventilated in appeal, the
 petitioners have also invited attention to an
 unreported short order of the Supreme Court in UOI and Another v. GTC India and Others in
 SLP (C) No. 2183/1994, dated 3-1-1995
 wherein it was held that the order passed by
 the adjudicating authority under Section 9D of
 the Act could be challenged in writ proceedings
 as well. Therefore, it is clear that the
 adjudicating authority cannot invoke Section
 9D(1)(a) of the Act without passing a reasoned
 and speaking order in that regard, which is
 amenable to challenge by the assessee, if
 aggrieved thereby. C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020 16. If none of the circumstances contemplated
by clause (a) of Section 9D(1) exists, clause (b) of Section 9D(1) comes into operation. The
said clause prescribes a specific procedure to
be followed before the statement can be
admitted in evidence. Under this procedure,
two steps are required to be followed by the
adjudicating authority, under clause (b) of
Section 9D(1), viz. (i) the person who made the statement has to
 first be examined as a witness in the case
 before the adjudicating authority, and (ii) the person who made the statement has to
 first be examined as a witness in the case
 before the adjudicating authority, and 17. There is no justification for jettisoning
this procedure, statutorily prescribed by
plenary Parliamentary legislation for
admitting, into evidence, a statement
recorded before the Gazetted Central
Excise Officer, which does not suffer from
the handicaps contemplated by clause (a)
of Section 9D(1) of the Act. The use of the
word "shall" in Section 9D(1), makes it
clear that, the provisions contemplated in
the sub-section are mandatory. Indeed, as
they pertain to conferment of admissibility
to oral evidence they would, even
otherwise, have to be recorded as
mandatory. 18. The rationale behind the above precaution
contained in clause (b) of Section 9D(1) is
obvious. The statement, recorded during
inquiry/investigation, by the Gazetted Central
Excise Officer, has every chance of having been
recorded under coercion or compulsion. It is a
matter of common knowledge that, on many
occasions, the DRI/DGCEI resorts to
compulsion in order to extract confessional
statements. It is obviously in order to
neutralize this possibility that, before admitting
such a statement in evidence, clause (b) of
Section 9D(1) mandates that the evidence of
the witness has to be recorded before the
adjudicating authority, as, in such an
atmosphere, there would be no occasion for
any trepidation on the part of the witness
concerned. 19. Clearly, therefore, the stage of
relevance, in adjudication proceedings, of
the statement, recorded before a Gazetted
Central Excise Officer during inquiry or
investigation, would arise only after the 18 C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020

 statement is admitted in evidence in
 accordance with the procedure prescribed
 in clause (b) of Section 9D(1). The rigour
 of this procedure is exempted only in a
 case in which one or more of the
 handicaps referred to in clause (a) of Section 9D(1) of the Act would apply. In
 view of this express stipulation in the Act,
 it is not open to any adjudicating authority
 to straightaway rely on the statement
 recorded during investigation/inquiry
 before the Gazetted Central Excise Officer,
 unless and until he can legitimately invoke
 clause (a) of Section 9D(1). In all other
 cases, if he wants to rely on the said statement
 as relevant, for proving the truth of the
 contents thereof, he has to first admit the
 statement in evidence in accordance with
 clause (b) of Section 9D(1). For this, he has to
 summon the person who had made the
 statement, examine him as witness before him
 in the adjudication proceeding, and arrive at an
 opinion that, having regard to the
 circumstances of the case, the statement
 should be admitted in the interests of justice. 20. In fact, Section 138 of the Indian Evidence
 Act, 1872, clearly sets out the sequence of
 evidence, in which evidence-in-chief has to
 precede cross-examination, and cross-
 examination has to precede re-examination". 16. Therefore, the 35 statements relied
 upon in the SCN are not relevant and hence
 also not admissible." (emphasis supplied) 22. In view of the aforesaid decisions of the Tribunal, it has to be held

that the statements made under section 108 of the Customs Act, on which

reliance has been placed by the Principal Commissioner, could not have

been considered as relevant. 23. In this view of the matter, penalties could not have been imposed

upon Neeraj Jain and Pankaj Jain under section 112(m) of the Customs

Act. C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020 24. Penalty has also been imposed upon Neeraj Jain and Pankaj Jain

under section 114AA of the Customs Act. This section provides for penalty

for use of false and incorrect material. It has not been pointed out which

statements were made by Neeraj Jain and Pankaj Jain knowingly or

intentionally or they had made any declaration or statement which was

found to be incorrect in any material particular. 25. It is seen that penalty under section 114AA of the Customs Act has

been imposed on a finding that the 'appellant's acts of omission and

commission, for preparing the customs documents for the purpose of

diverting the export bound gold jewellery towards domestic area with sole

motive to unjustly enrich themselves and also the other members of the

syndicate". There is no evidence on record to support that the purpose of

preparing the documents for export was for diversion of the goods to the

domestic tariff area. No fault has been found in the documents prepared

by the appellants in respect of purity and weight of the gold jewellery. The

handing of the export jewellery was committed in a highly secured airport

area under customs control. Handing over the detention receipt to the

international passengers carrying the gold jewellery to be exported, was

also in compliance of the procedure of export. There is no evidence that

may support the finding in the impugned order that the appellant

instructed the passengers or knew or had reasons to believe that the gold

jewellery would be handed over by the international passengers to the

domestic passengers. Thus, the imposition of the penalties upon Neeraj

Jain and Pankaj Jain under section 114AA is not justified. 26. Penalty has been imposed upon the appellants under section 114AA of the Customs Act after mis-using the beneficial provisions of the

Notification. The period involved is after 15.05.2015 when the second 20 C/50789/2020 &
 C/50790/2020

proviso to the opening paragraph of the Notification was omitted by the

Notification dated 15.05.2015. It cannot, therefore, be said that the

appellant had violated the conditions set out in the Notification. 27. Such being the position, the order dated 09.01.2020 passed by the

Principal Commissioner confirming the penalties upon Neeraj Jain and

Pankaj Jain under section 112 of the Customs Act and section 114AA of

the Customs Act deserves to be set aside and is set aside. Customs Appeal

No. 50789 of 2020 and Customs Appeal No. 50790 of 2020 are,

accordingly, allowed. (Order pronounced on 05.08.2025)

 (JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA)
 PRESIDENT

 (HEMAMBIKA R. PRIYA)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
Shreya