SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Am I the a***ole, here?
DATE: 2021-06-14
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/nzh70h/am_i_the_aole_here/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, about a year ago I lost my job in America and moved back to India. I was financially stable (Thank God!) and I run a side business which might not have provided me with enough money to lead a decent life in America but the monthly income would have placed me comfortably within the high earner bracket in India. The last few years were pretty tough for me personally with a failed relationship (p.s. this is not a post about me cribbing about romance. Just wanted to provide some context) and dealing with a lot of loneliness and anxiety from living alone. I am not married and have no children. The only person I am responsible for is my mother and my brother helps out with that too.

I ended up taking some time off from searching for jobs to work some my personal development - reading a lot of books, exercising. I should also mention that after running my side business for 6years, I had found ways to automate most of it. So, I was only working a few hours per week. My weight had shot up to 112kg during my time in America and I really wanted to get healthy again. Now, I have never been too sociable a person but I do have some close friends. So, I reconnected with them when I got back to my home town. Other than that though, I wanted to be left alone. It was during this time that I came across a facebook post from a high school friend who was asking if anyone had a spare phone they could lend him.

This friend and I had fallen out of touch for many years before briefly reconnecting just before I left for America. During the same year that I went abroad, he went to study for an MBA to Australia. After many struggles (much like what I faced in America myself), he was in a decent job in Melbourne and he came back to India in March 2020 to get married. March 2020...so you can probably guess what happened next - he got stuck in India due to the lockdowns and couldn't go back.

Now, my position wasn't desirable - went to America, got a degree and a job but couldn't get a visa and settle there. His position though was far worse. Unlike me he had gotten married. He was taking care of both parents and had no siblings but did have a number of aunts and uncles depending on him too. I had surmised most of this and to be honest, I felt some empathy. Getting a job in America for international students during the Trump years was tough and if things had gone a little differently, my finances would be shot and I would be in almost the same position as him. So, I replied and offered him a spare phone that I had.

This was during the first wave of the pandemic. So, after the cases abated a little bit we met up and he told me everything that he had gone through - like I said, I had surmised my previous observations from what I knew about him from before (this was my first time talking to him about it all). It turned out it was WAY worse than I imagined. His ENTIRE family ended up getting COVID during the first wave. On top of that, his education loan was still out-standing to the tune of over 10 lakhs. Medical bills and debt are not a great combination.

So, I offered to help him by integrating him into my side-business. We met up probably 3 or 4 times to discuss this and to brief him on what I did exactly but for some technology-related reasons, it wasn't really feasible to bring him in and we let it go.

At the same time, though, my personal development journey was reaching its end and I started looking for work again. It took a few months but I ended up finding my dream job. Literally, the perfect job - the position I had been looking for for all those years in America. It was really well paid too (by India standards) and combined with my side business I ended up doubling what I was making.

Still though, I felt empathetic towards him so I gave him some money. It wasn't going to cover his entire loan but would get him a few steps closer. I should mention at this point that my entire family (like his in the first wave) ended up getting COVID in the second wave and so for that there was a bit of a delay between me promising him the money and actually giving it to him - about a month but it did reach him eventually.

It was then that something strange started happening. It's been about 3 weeks since I gave him the money. Some of the whatsapp statuses and social media posts have seen from him refer to him setting up a non-profit with the help of his friends from Australia to help COVID affected patients and families in India. Then he sent me a whatsapp fwd with a link to a gofundme which was raising money for this non-profit. This non-profit has seemingly not been registered anywhere and in the entirety of the gofundme page they never once mentioned what will they actually do with the money raised. In fact the only things mentioned are that India is going through a COVID tsunami and this guy's personal story about supporting his family through it. All this of course, when India's COVID numbers are back below what they were at the peak of the first wave.

I guess, this long rant of a post is supposed to be a bit of a catharsis for me because I don't know what to make of all this. I would have helped him regardless of all this but if it were me, I would be trying my best to pay off my debts and support my family instead of starting something with a vague aim and no plan. To be honest, I am a little confused by all this. I should clarify that he is a very nice person and I am not insinuating it is a scam or anything. I just kind of don't get it.