1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 30.08.2024, before the CPIO,
Directorate of Education (NE-I), GNCTD, seeking information as under: There is no Provision/section/ Clause in the RTI ACT-2005 That emphasize For visiting
the office of principal For collection of RTI-reply. so provide the Information of
section/clause of RT1. Act-2005 That States for visiting the principal office for Collection
RTI-reply." 2|Page Second Appeal No. CIC/DIRED/A/2024/140831 2. The CPIO, O/o DDE, Zone-IV, replied to the RTI Application vide letter dated
19.09.2024, enclosing the information received from the concerned school, i.e Govt.
Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (GSKV), Gokal Pur Village, Delhi, as under: 3. Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First Appeal
dated 01.10.2024. The FAA vide order dated 18.10.2024, held as under: 4. In compliance with the FAA's direction, the CPIO replied to the Appellant vide letter
dated 29.10.2024, as under: 5. Aggrieved with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant approached the
Commission with the instant Second Appeal dated 19.12.2024. Hearing Proceedings & Decision 6. The Appellant remained absent during the hearing despite due service of notice. On
behalf of the Respondent, Satish Kumar, DDE & CPIO (Zone-IV) along with Karuna
Sharma, Principal and Atul Jaiswal, PGT from the concerned school, i.e GSKV, Gokal Pur
Village, Delhi attended the hearing in person. 7. The Respondent reiterated the replies provided to the Appellant. It was further
submitted that so far, about 10 RTI Application(s) have been filed by the Appellant, who
is a PGT (Geography), owing to personal vendetta emanating from issues like
transfer/posting; budget not being issued for recharging the tablets sanctioned to the
teachers; leave sanction of his wife, who is also a teacher, etc. It was further urged that the
Appellant through the instant second appeal, has been wasting the time and resources of
the public authority and the Commission. The representative from the concerned school
requested to bring on record that in addition to filing frivolous RTI Application(s) in his
name and his wife's name, the Appellant had also approached the Commission for Other
Backward Classes, Govt of NCT of Delhi but the OBC Commission observed that the
Appellant is a habitual complainant and found no merit in his allegations. 4|Page Second Appeal No. CIC/DIRED/A/2024/140831 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, and
perusal of records, observes that the instant second appeal primarily arises out of the
dissatisfaction of the Appellant in respect of the reply provided by the CPIO in compliance
with the FAA's order. Perusal of the record reveals that the FAA's order is found to be
bad in law for being grossly mechanical and proforma based in nature. Neither did the
FAA point out the deficiency in the reply of the CPIO while ticking "not complete" in the
proforma based order nor did the FAA expressly state as to what "complete" information
is to be provided when the information was denied as being related to the personal
information of a third party by the CPIO as per Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. Thus, the
FAA has failed to exercise due diligence in deciding the First Appeal. 9. In view of the above, the Commission cautions the FAA against issuance of such
orders that negate the purpose of designating a FAA and renders the channel of First
Appeal futile. 10. Nonetheless, given the fact that the CPIO duly replied to the RTI Application in
terms with the provisions of the RTI Act at the initial instance, the Commission finds no
scope for any other intervention in the matter. The Appellant is advised to exercise his
right to information in a judicious manner in the future. 11. The Appeal is dismissed accordingly. A copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- Recomendation(s) to PA under section 25(5) of the RTI Act, 2005:-