Title: Further discussion on Finance (No.2) Bill,1998 moved by Shri Yashwant Sinha on 15th July,1998. 15.20 hrs. 

MR. CHAIRMAN ( SHRI KHAGAPATI PRADHANI ): Now, the House will take up further consideration of the following motion moved by Shri Yashwant Sinha on the 15th July, 1998, that the Bill to give effect to the financial proposals of the Central Government for the financial year 1998-99 be taken into consideration. The time allotted for this discussion is nine hours. Out of that, two hours and fifty-one minutes have already been taken and the balance time left is four hours and nine minutes. Prof. Prem Singh Chandumajra was on his legs. He will continue his speech. प्रो. प्रेम सिंह चन्दूमाजरा (पटियाला) : सभापति महोदय, मैं कह रहा था कि सैंटर-स्टेट रिलेशन रिव्यू करने के लिए लोंगोवाल-राजीव ऐकॉर्ड में सरकारिया कमीशन के तहत आनंदपुर साहब के रैजोलूशन में माना गया था कि स्टेट को ज्यादा पावर दी जाए। उसे लागू नहीं किया गया। फिर यूनाइटेड फ्रंट की सरकारें आईं, उन्होंने भी माना कि रिव्यू होना चाहिए और देश में संघीय ढांचा बनना चाहिए। वह भी लागू नहीं हुआ। मुझे इस बात की खुशी है कि आज हमारी सरकार ने राष्ट्रीय एजैंडा में यह बात सबसे पहले लिखी है कि यदि देश के विधान को रीराइट भी करना पड़े तो सैंटर-स्टेट रिलेशन्स रिव्यू होने चाहिए कयोंकि पिछले समय में जो फैसले होते रहे, वे पोलीटिकल फैसले होते रहे, स्टेटस को उनकी जरूरत के आधार पर नहीं दिया गया, राजनीतिक कम्पलशन के तहत दिया गया। नतीजा यह हुआ कि स्टेटस अपनी योजनाएं नहीं बना सके। जैसे यदि एक परिवार के कमाऊ पुत्र को अच्छी खुराक न दी जाए तो वह परिवार खत्म हो जाता है। ऐसे ही जो स्टेट टैकस कलैकशन करती थी, उनको उनका हिस्सा नहीं दिया जाता था और स्टेट को आगे बढ़ने का समय नहीं दिया जाता था। इसलिए देश खुशहाली की ओर नहीं बढ़ पाया, देश कमजोर होता गया। मेरा वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन है कि जिस रेशियो में टैकस कलैकशन होता है, उसमें से ५० प्रतिशत स्टेटस को दिया जाए तो स्टेटस आगे बढ़ सकती हैं। ऐसे ही उनको अपनी योजनाओं में स्वतंत्रता होनी चाहिए, वे रिजर्व बैंक से लोन ले सकें, बाहर के देशों से लोन ले सकें और अपनी जरूरत के अनुसार योजनाएं बना सकेंगे तो देश आगे बढ़ सकता है। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी को कहना चाहूंगा कि राष्ट्रीय एजैंडा में घोषणा की गई है कि राष्ट्रीय जल नीति बनाई जाएगी। इसकी भी बहुत जरूरत थी। माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण में माना था कि हमारा ७५ प्रतिशत रेन वाटर मिसयूटीलाइज हो जाता है और वह डैमेज भी करता है। आज पंजाब, हरियाणा में जो बाढ़ आई हुई है उससे करोड़ों रुपये की फसलें तबाह हो गई हैं। यदि हिमाचल में कहीं डैम बनाए जाते तो उस पानी को रोका जा सकता था और वह सिंचाई के लिए काम आ सकता था। हमारे देश की २१ प्रतिशत कल्टीवेटेड लैंड ऐसी है जिसमें ऐकसस वाटर है और १५ प्रतिशत कल्टीवेटेड लैंड ड़ाउट में है, ६२ प्रतिशत नार्मल है। इसलिए सूखे और बाढ़ से बचाने के लिए यदि राष्ट्रीय जल नीति में इस बात को प्रॉयरिटी दी जाए तो यह हो सकता है। मैं चाहूंगा कि देश को फलड प्रूफ बनाने के लिए राष्ट्रीय जल नीति के तहत ऐसे प्रोजैकटस तैयार किए जाएं जिससे बाढ़ के पानी की तबाही से बचा जा सके। ऐसे ही पावर सैकटर को संभालने की जरूरत है। हमारे ट्रासंमिशन लॉसेस, डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन लॉसेस जो संसार में सबसे ज्यादा हैं, उसे चैक करने की जरूरत है। ऐसे ही पीक सीजन में कई प्रदेश ऐसे हैं जहां उनको साल में ३-४ महीने पावर की जरूरत होती है और आठ महीने कम जरूरत होती है। कुछ स्टेटस ऐसी हैं, जहां बिजली सरप्लस होती है तो सरप्लस स्टेट से डैफीसिट स्टेट में ट्रासमीशन के कोई उपाय होने चाहिए। जैसे पंजाब में तीन-चार महीने के लिए बिजली की जरूरत होती है, आठ महीने बिजली फालतू होती है। जिस स्टेट में सरप्लस बिजली है, उससे डैफीसिट स्टेट के लिए ट्रांसमीशन का कोई उपाय करना चाहिए। इसी तरह अनिएम्पलायमेंट की प्राब्लम भी गम्भीर है। हर मां-बाप को अपने पुत्रों की चिन्ता है कि उनको कैसे एम्पलायमेंट दी जाये। इसके लिए एग्रो बेस्ड एक बात बहुत जरूरी है, मैं समझता हूं कि सरकार के खर्चे कम करने चाहिए। सरकार के खर्चे की पहले से आदतें पड़ी हुई हैं, ५० वषर्ों से खर्चा बढ़ता जा रहा है, अब इसको चैक करने की जरूरत है। कितनी परेशानी की बात है, सोचने की बात है, ४० परसेंट लोग गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे हैं। यहां ७९ हजार करोड़ रुपया सरकार ने फाइनेंसियल इंस्टीटयूशंस से उधार लिया। अगर सरकार ने इतना पैसा फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीटयूशंस से उधार ले लिया तो पहले तो रेट ऑफ इंटरैस्ट बढ़ेगा, इन्फलेशन बढ़ेगा। फिर जो कृषि का क्षेत्र है, इंडस्ट्री है और प्राइवेट लोग हैं, वे कहां से लोन लेंगे। आज उनको लोन नहीं मिलता, इन्वैस्टमेंट नहीं होता और काम रुक जाता है। इसलिए सरकार को खर्चे कम करने चाहिए। इसी तरह देश का बहुत सारा धन अनप्रोडकिटव पड़ा है। ६४ करोड़ रुपया तो लटिगेशन में टैकसेज़ का, इन्कम टैकस और कस्टम डयूटी का ही पड़ा है, इनकी उगाही नहीं हो रही है, इसको उगाहना चाहिए। ४४ करोड़ रुपया नॉन परफोरमिंग असैटस हैं, जो नेशनल बैंकों के पड़े हैं, अगर इस धनराशि को प्रोडकिटव बनाया जाये तो देश आगे बढ़ सकता है और उससे एम्पलायमेंट भी मिल सकता है। इसी तरह महंगाई को चैक करने की जरूरत है। सात परसेंट इन्फलेशन बढ़ गया, ढाई तीन परसेंट तो पिछले दो तीन महीनों में ही बढ़ गई। आलू १२७ परसेंट बढ़ गया, प्याज बढ़ गई, टमाटर बढ़ गई, दालें ४०-५० रुपये किलो हो गईं। सरकार कहती है कि यह सीजनल इन्क़ीज है। मैं नहीं समझता हूं कि यह सीजनल इन्क़ीज है। इसको चैक करने की जरूरत है। कहीं कोई कमी है, यह बात ध्यान मांगती है। माननीय मंत्री हेगड़े साहब ने कहा कि निर्यात कम हो रहा है, निर्यात इसलिए कम हो रहा है कि उत्पादन कम हो रहा है। उत्पादन इसलिए कम हो रहा है कि डिमांड कम हो रही है। मांग कम हो रही है, अगर मांग कम होगी तो लोगों की परचेजिंग पावर कम हो रही है, यह बड़ी चिन्ता की बात है। कहीं न कहीं हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था में कोई कमी है, सिस्टम में कोई कमी है, उसको चैक करने की जरूरत है, जिसमें हम सब कुछ कर सकें। एक बात मैं और कहना चाहता हूं कि देश का जो बहुत सारा धन है, उसका मिसयूटीलाइजेशन हुआ, वह इसलिए भी हुआ कयोंकि देश में बहुत सारे डिस्प्यूटस हैं। जो 

  मैं एक बात और कहना चाहता हूं। एक तरफ महंगाई बढ़ रही है और दूसरी तरफ आपने सर्िवस टैकस लगा दिया है, जैसे ट्रांसपोर्टर्स पर लगाया है, जो कि टैकसी वाले हैं, ट्रक वाले हैं या गुडस ट्रांसपोर्ट का धंधा करते हैं। इससे महंगाई और बढ़ेगी। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करूंगा कि जैसे उन्होंने सर्िवसेज टैकस कई चीजों पर वापस ले लिया है, इसी तरह से ट्रांसपोर्ट पर लगाया गया सर्िवस टैकस भी विदड़ा किया जाए। आपने अपने बजट में ब्रांडेड मिल्क प्रोडकटस पर टैकस लगाया था, लेकिन अभी उस सम्बन्ध में आपने एक अच्छा संकेत दिया है, अगर वह अमल में लाते हैं तो स्वागत योग्य बात होगी। देश में ७० प्रतिशत लोग कृषि पर निर्भर करते हैं। कृषि का सहायक धंधा या तो ट्रांसपोर्ट है या मिल्क प्रोडकट है। अगर इन पर टैकस लगाते हैं तो इससे कृषि क्षेत्र भी प्रभावित होगा और हमारी इकोनोमी पर भी असर पड़ेगा। इसलिए मिल्क पर लगाया गया टैकस वापस लिया जाए। आपने आयकर की सीमा ४० हजार रुपये से बढ़ाकर ५० हजार रुपये कर दी है, अगर उसको ६० हजार रुपये कर दें तो अधिक अच्छा होगा। कयोंकि हमारे जो कर्मचारी टैकस देते हैं, वे ईमानदारी से देते हैं और लगातार देते हैं इसलिए उनकी तरफ भी ध्यान देना चाहिए, वैसे भी महंगाई काफी बढ़ गई है। हमारे कई साथी जब इकट्ठा होते हैं तो बात करते हैं कि महंगाई काफी बढ़ गई है और आपने हर वर्ग के लोगों की तनख्वाहें बढ़ा दी हैं, उनको आप टी.ए. और डी.ए. आदि भी देते हैं, लेकिन हम सांसदों की तनख्वाह अभी तक वही १५०० रुपये महीना है। इसके बारे में भी कुछ सोचा जाना चाहिए, कयोंकि आज के जमाने में १५०० रुपये महीने से कया होता है। अतः मेरा अनुरोध है कि इसमें व्ृाद्धि की जानी चाहिए। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने जो प्रपोजल रखे हैं, उनका मैं समर्थन करता हूं और मैं समझता हूं कि इन बजट प्रपोजल्स से देश तरककी करेगा तथा आगे बढ़ेगा। 16.00 hrs. 

This Government announced that the rate of duty on petrol be increased by one rupee per litre. There was some tremendous confusion about this. It has been mentioned in the Finance Bill also. Even Rs.4 was charged extra on the sale of per litre of petrol due to the total mismanagement and lack of positive announcement. I do not know what were the reasons for that. Even the money that was charged extra was not refunded. Those who purchased petrol for Rs.4 more per litre from the petrol pumps were refused refund of the extra amount. The reason for this is still not known to us. It has happened due to lack of infrastructure. You had categorically mentioned in this House that you would be saying at the time of discussion on the Finance Bill, about the infrastructure sector. Shri Chavan from the Congress side mentioned about infrastructure of railways. But I would rather seek a clarification from the Government regarding infrastructure units of electricity generation, crude oil, coal, refinery, steel and cement because merely by imposing taxes and duties, nothing could be achieved. You must evolve a proper infrastructure system. In your Budget speech on page 19, para 180, a very important issue has been mentioned about the postal workers. It has been mentioned that the changes would take effect from a date to be notified after the Finance Bill is passed. It says and I quote: 1604 hrs. 

(Shri Basu Deb Acharia in the Chair) 

The postal strike which is going on in the country at this stage is causing tremendous difficulties to the common people of this country. The matter is being discussed on the floor of the House. In the Budget speech, specially a paragraph has been added to look after the problems of the postal employees. But still the fate or the movement or the decision of the Government is not clear to the Members of this House in spite of the decision that is being taken. The Minister has given a reply. But what would be the approach of the Government to see that postal strike-oriented problem is sorted out and common people can get a relief from this burning problem which is causing tremendous anxiety? The Finance Minister is imposing taxes and duties upon us. But what is happening is that the United States along with other countries like Japan, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands are imposing sanctions on us. We want to know categorically whether you are going to re-allocate your budgetary provisions to the different departments due to these sanctions. What will be the fate of the on-going accepted projects? In any way will these sanctions affect the economic structure or the budgetary proposals which have been announced by the Government? Now, I will come to a few of your tax proposals. It has come out in the newspapers also. There is still hesitation on the issue of the eight per cent excise duty on branded sweets and namkeens though it has been kept in abeyance. But I would appeal to the Government to announce withdrawal of this eight per cent tax because Bengali people are very much fond of taking sweets, and they have categorically asked us to see that this tax is withdrawn. In the case of medical instruments and appliances, and on pollution control equipments, you have raised the tax from five per cent to eight per cent. You should not do that. In my opinion, the pollution control is the utmost necessity in the present day world. Any imposition of tax on pollution control equipments will not reflect the proper intention of the Government to make our country pollution-free. Similarly, on medical instruments and appliances also the tax should be withdrawn. A few hon. Members have categorically mentioned about the public sector units both at the Central and State levels. I would like to mention about the modernisation of a few public sector units including IISCO MAMC, MPC, Metal Box, and Cycle Corporations. All these units are pending with the BIFR. I would request the Government to kindly see to it. You have proposed to hand over a few such public sector units in the hands of the foreign investors. One such unit is BALCO, that is, Bharat Aluminium Company. Sir, our suggestion is that without announcing disinvestment of these public sector units, can you not give relief of taxes to those Indian industrialists who can take over them or give you an offer by which they can run or take one industrial house? If you announce a better package or propose to give some relief to each industrial house to take over or to run such public sector units, I hope, they will come forward. So, in this regard, I suggest that serious attempts should be made from the Government side. This Government's brain child is the Kar Vivad Samadhan Scheme which is mentioned in paras 89 to 101 of the Finance Bill. It is to be seen that the process of this Kar Vivad Samadhan is transparent. It should be without any hazard. Without having transparency in the tax proposals, no Government can mobilise its resources. I would also suggest to the Government to give tax relief and encourage those who will come forward with the full-fledged proposals throughout the country in the Ninth Plan. Government should take all out steps because one of the major causes for the price hike is not having sufficient number of cold storages in the country. Therefore, in the Ninth Plan, cold storage sector will have to be given priority. Otherwise farmers will be in real trouble. They are increasing production, they are contributing to the welfare of the nation, but ultimately they are not being benefited due to lack of cold storage facility. Therefore, it is badly needed at this juncture. There should be an all-out plan to build cold storages in the country in huge numbers because of which the price rise can also be contained. Shri Murli Deora has made a number of suggestions and has put forth a number of ideas the other day. One of them is the crop insurance scheme. The Central Government has allocated in 1998-99, Rs.100 crore. When the GIC does not have much experience to work at the village level, why not set up another corporation to look after these problems? It can work along with the Departments of Agriculture, Rural Development and NABARD. The Government should take a positive decision in this matter. I support the Bill and expect that in regard to the policies and proposals which the Finance Minister had announced, the Government would announce some positive decisions. The dream of the people of India is to see the glorious prospect of this country, eradication of poverty and creation of employment potentiality. I must say that every youth who is educated in this country must get employment. The poor people who are living in rural areas and remote areas must have a minimum reasonable life. This is the most important million dollar question. This has been the dream of everybody. But nothing is happening. In the Finance Bill, our Finance Minister has been very optimistic. He has taken a very optimistic view that he would be able to raise a lot of revenue. In spite of having five to six per cent fiscal deficit, which may go up to 6.2 per cent also, minus two per cent agricultural growth, industrial growth falling down, inflation going up; with all these things in the background, he is still optimistic that he is going to derive very good results in respect of industrial growth, employment potentiality and poverty eradication. He has been dreaming so many things. Anyway, we welcome his optimistic views. He has given incentives to a number of schemes. Of course, it will be short-lived and politically perhaps it may be just a temporary inspiration for people. Now, my question is this. How are we going to solve this problem? How are we going to provide houses for the poor people. As Shri Ram Jethmalani's dream is to provide houses for the poor people, the BJP's dream is to eradicate poverty and provide `ram rajya'. The answer is, you must create an all-round good atmosphere. Let us remember that if we help the industrial sector, it should not be misunderstood that we are helping the rich industrialists. It is not so. We can make India one of the great countries of the world only by building the industrial sector. If we want to help industrial growth, let us remove the wrong notion that we are helping the big industries. The United States of America, under Section 105 (b) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act, has stopped all facilities that were given to us. They have immediately stopped the developmental assistance. They have instructed their EXIM Bank not to give any assistance. They have prohibited their commercial banks from extending loans and credit facilities except for food grains and food items. They also want to oppose us tooth and nail in the World Bank and in the IMF on the question of extension of credit facilities for us. While they are taking this action on the one side, on the other, Japan, Germany, Canada and other countries have decided to stop all assistance given to us. The hon. Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of India may feel that the sanctions do not have any impact on the economy but that is totally incorrect. Of course, they are under a wrong impression. There are two types of assistance, short-term and long-term. Whatever assistance, loans and help have been already agreed upon by America and other countries are not going to be stopped. But they are not going to give any assistance in the future. Therefore the present proposition in the Budget is that the finance situation and the country's economy would not be affected. They are happy with the philosophy that nothing will happen. But this is a chain reaction. It is not a question of just one Budget and one Finance Bill. They are going to have a stupendous economic burden and a magnificent impact on the Indian economy and the Indian financial position. Therefore, we have to bear this in mind here. I am not just indulging in criticism. I do not believe in criticising for the sake of mere criticism. There should be constructive, practical and positive criticism. We have to give suggestions which - the Government must bear in mind - are in the interests of the country and in the interests of building this nation. While the sanctions are giving us trouble on the one side, on the other, there are financial and economic crises in the East-Asian countries and help from them is also disturbed. At this stage, how are we going to build infrastructure, power projects, roads, ports and industrial units? Without their help it is not possible. Therefore, I draw the attention of the hon. Minister of Finance and request him to work out and see how they can do it without their help. There is gross red-tapism and nothing works in Delhi. For example, in my constituency, we are dreaming of having projects in Vishakapatnam, which will give employment to thousands of people and also increase revenue and add to the GDP. If the Ministry of Finance says something in respect of a project, the other Ministries say something else. There is no coordination between different Ministries. There is a total lack of understanding. I have suggested many times - at least, if this Government wants to face the challenge - that they should form a coordination committee and produce results. There should not only be talks and statements. The results should be produced by implementation of constructive methods. Today, the capital markets have crashed and no institution is giving any loan to industries. I would like to ask: `Which new industry has come up in the country in the last two or three years? How many industries have come up?' They are dreaming of ten per cent industrial growth. They will not have even three per cent growth at this rate. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act was formulated with the object of regularising the foreign exchange flow. Again in 1973, on the basis of the 56th Report of the then Public Accounts Committee of 1968 and 47th Report of the Law Commission, they totally modified it. In 1947, there were 21 Sections. They introduced 86 Sections in 1973 and again modified in 1993. They have given sweeping powers under this Act. The junior officers can just act like the biggest men of the country and create a scare. I am shocked to know this. They have filed 16,000 cases but only in 72 cases, people are convicted. Is this the way of doing it, Sir? If somebody is guilty, there is no question of sparing him. You must punish him, whoever he may be. The philosophy of our people is to punish the guilty ones. But it does not mean that you have to create a scare in the Indian economy and give an impression to the world that the people of India are only after democratisation. It always comes in the newspapers that so and so has been arrested and so and so has been prosecuted. But nothing happens. About the ITC case, the entire industry is shocked to know that the court of New York has recently said that ITC was not at fault. Then who is responsible for this? The answer to this question is FERA. Then how do you expect the Indian economy to grow and how do you expect the industry to grow? I will give you an example. The major goals in 1973 were: In 1973, they said that the then situation calls for an early new sets of goals. Again, as on today, where do we stand? Those goals were: As on today, we are dreaming to build up an economy. We are dreaming to inspire the world to come to this nation and participate in the investments to build up our industry and see that a tremendous employment potential is built up. When your child becomes a graduate today, where is the job for him? There is frustration among the people. There is violence going on because of this frustration. Since there is no goal of prosperity in the minds of the youth, they are going in the wrong direction and track. The only solution to this problem is to forget this misunderstanding. Let us have a human touch. Let us think, before leaving this world, what we have done to our country, society and profession. Let us not politicise issues. Let us not dramatise them. Let us not trouble and harass people. Let us build this great nation. MR. CHAIRMAN :Dr. Reddy, please conclude. DR. T. SUBBARAMI REDDY :If you want, I will sit down. I am speaking on Finance Bill. If any of my points are waste and are not useful for the Indian economy and finance, I will sit down. If they are useful, kindly allow me to speak. I will not give a lecture or a speech. I will give only valid points. MR. CHAIRMAN: You are giving a very good speech and good suggestions. DR. T. SUBBARAMI REDDY ( VISAKHAPATNAM ): Government, vaguely and indirectly, said that they are going to replace FERA by FEMA. When are they going to do it and what are they doing for it? I want a commitment from the Finance Minister while giving his reply as to when he is going to do this. When is he going to give a new atmosphere? He is talking about globalisation, liberalisation and inviting people from all over the world asking them to come to our great country and invest here which has glory of thousands of years. But what is happening? The Finance Minister must also give a reply as to how he is going to control inflation. There is no doubt that he has introduced a number of schemes like Samadhan and so on. I appreciate it. Under Samadhan, we are shocked to know that five lakh cases are pending and Rs.40,000 crore are under litigation in the income-tax. In so far as customs and excise duties are concerned, one-and-a-half lakh cases are pending and an amount of Rs. 12,000 crore is also pending. It is welcome. But the mistake in this Act is `samadhan'. If we say `samadhan', nobody will take it seriously. They must say that from so-and-so date, the samadhan will be functioning. Afterwards, there would not be any `samadhan'. Unless there is a specific date or there is some compulsion, a man takes it easily. If a temple is in the next house, he will never see it. देखेंगे बाद में, जल्दी कया है, वैसे भी समाधान जल्दी नहीं आता। You never get the required amount also. MR. CHAIRMAN : There are a number of speakers. We have to conclude the debate today. ... (Interruptions) DR. T. SUBBARAMI REDDY : We want to see that our indigenous 

industry is protected. Take, for instance, sugar. Sugar is the most important product. Millions of workers are depending on the sugar industry. What is the point in encouraging import of sugar? We cannot imagine it. You are only charging customs duty at the rate of five per cent. Indirectly, it is 12 per cent only. Sugar manufactured in our country is being taxed at 20 per cent. Shri Janardhanan, please note down that. That means, sugar produced in India will attract 20 per cent tax and sugar, which is imported, gets 12 per cent tax. What is the logic? If you take the international system, even Pakistan and Bangladesh are charging 40 per cent to 50 per cent customs duty. We are charging six to 12 per cent only. Therefore, the customs duty should be planned in such a way that it should not kill the Indian industry. We are shocked to know that today, we are having a stock of 10 million tonnes of sugar for free sale this year. And 12.6 million tonnes of sugar is being produced this year. So much sugar is always there in the market. We are importing two lakh tonnes. We have already signed a contract. The sugar is coming mostly from Pakistan. How are we justifying it? Once you are losing the foreign exchange, you are losing the revenue and you are harming the Indian sugar industry. The Indian Sugar Mills' Association have been representing that a gross injustice has been done. A conspiracy is going on to encourage the imports to help some section of people. So, I am drawing your attention to do justice. About revival of the capital market, we have to take some pains. In 1990-91, the iron and steel industry was totally decontrolled. They started a lot of mini blast furnace plants spending Rs. 3,000 crore. Now, they are all in a bad shape because of wrong import policy and having anti-dumping policy. When coke is being imported, you are unnecessarily having anti-dumping charges. That is also damaging that industry. One lakh workers are depending on that industry. Please help in that respect also. Shri Ananth Kumar has just now left. The entire Finance Bill is silent about development of the airports in the country. The airports are not a luxury. In the modern society, an airport is also a necessity to build this nation. No money has been provided. You want to go for BOT. BOT will come only as grants and nothing will happen in this country. Therefore, the Minister of Finance must bear in mind that at least besides the four important cities, namely, Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and Calcutta, other small cities, like Vishakhapatnam, Cochin or Coimbatore, and all medium cities should be given importance. The airports at these places should be modernised. For that, either you give money or borrow money or you make available somebody to invest money. Lastly, you must bear in mind the sanctions. Regarding the Foreign Exchange Act, you must not forget that no country in the world, not even Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, are having this Act. Why are we having this Act here? This Act should be abolished immediately. There should be sugar, coking coal, revival of the capital market, and also facilities for drinking water. You are silent about it. You must provide more amount for drinking water, and also see that the poor people in the rural areas are provided houses. You must give money for what Shri Jethmalani is dreaming about. MR. CHAIRMAN : A decision has been taken in the Leaders meeting that the discussion on Finance Bill would be completed today even if the House is required to sit beyond eight or nine o'clock. All the Members who wish to speak on it would be accommodated today and the Finance Minister would reply to the debate tomorrow. So, I request the hon. Members to be brief. SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO ( MAHENDRAGARH ): Sir, I am on a point of order. MR. CHAIRMAN: Under which rule you are raising the point of order? SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO ( MAHENDRAGARH ): A point of order can be raised at any time regarding the business which is before the House. Unless you give me a chance, I cannot tell you what I want to say. How can you rule out my point of order even before I have raised it? MR. CHAIRMAN: You have to raise a point of order under some rule. SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :Sir, I am raising it under Rule 376 which says that a point of order can be raised at any time as long as it is within the purview of the House.... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: The rule says that the point of order may be raised in relation to the business before the House at the moment. SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :The business before the House is that the Chair wants to postpone it. I have an objection to it and I am raising a point of order on that. MR. CHAIRMAN: Which business is being postponed? SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :You wish to extend the House beyond 1800 hours. MR. CHAIRMAN: It has been decided in the Leaders' meeting. SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :The House is supreme. The House has not decided it so far. MR. CHAIRMAN: There is no point of order. It has been decided in the Leaders' meeting. This is the convention of the House. There is no point of order. ... (Interruptions) SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :You have to seek the permission of the House.... (Interruptions) We do not want to sit after 1800 hours. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Why is he wasting the time of the House? Unnecessarily, he is raising the point of order. MR. CHAIRMAN: There is no point of order. At the appropriate time, sense of the House will be taken. ... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: At 1800 hours, sense of the House will be taken. For the information of the Members, I have announced the decision taken in the Leaders' meeting and I request the Members to be brief. SHRI INDERJIT SINGH RAO :Mr. Chairman, Sir, I want your ruling on this issue, whether the House is supreme or not, whether the Executive Committee meeting that you are alluding to is sufficient to overrule the House? I want your ruling whether the House is supreme or not. MR. CHAIRMAN: I have informed the Members of the decision taken and the sense of the House would be taken at proper time. Why do you worry about it? So I would like to draw the attention of this Government through the Finance Minister. Cross of acres of land are there lying as dry lands and waste lands without adequate water and irrigation facilities. If we could take effective and viable measures we can convert these lands to be cultivable ones. Thereby we would be able to augment foodgrains production and we would be able to export food supplies to other countries. So I would emphasize here the need to go for Ganga-Cauvery link project. It is fifty years since we won freedom. So many parties like Congress party rules the country all along. They might have left several things unfulfilled. So I would like to impress upon the Prime Minister that it is not important as to how long we rules this India. It is all the more important as to how long we ruled this India. It is all the more important to prove that how have we taken up and implemented projects and scheme that would have lasting impact. Puratchi Thalaivar MGR as a visionary functioned with a perspective. Yesterday during the Kamaraj statue unvelling ceremony, our Prime Minister lauded late Kamaraj's Midday Meal scheme. But it is only Dr MGR, the erstwhile Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu who proved that such a noon-day nutritious meal scheme can last for long that too feeding children upto plus two. He showed a way to the whole of India. So I request our Orime Minister to implement this Midday Meal scheme throughout the country taking cue from the one and the only Chief Minister who introduced it in Tamil Nadu. I also request the Prime Minister to seriously consider implementing the Ganga-Cauvery project. Even if it is to cost thousands of crores of rupees this BJP Government must find ways and means to take up this project. I would be happy if survey work for this project is taken up this year. I also look forward to your announcement in the ensuing session that funds have been earmarked for this purpose. Annor, Avinasi, Nambiyoor, Gobi,Perundurai, Bhavani Sagar, Karamadal, Uthukull, Chennimalai are the ten panchayat unions in CVolmbatore and Erode districts that have vast dry land due to dry spells and deep water table. A scheme was evolved to replenish the water in the irrigational tanks and water sheds. This Athikkadauv scheme was evolved as a major Drinking water scheme. In 1995, when our Puratchi Thalaivi was Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, ssurvey was carried out. Public works Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu conducted a survey and submitted its recommendations. it was found to be a viable scheme. Government of Tamil Nadu also took up the project for consideration. This Rs. 135 crore project would benefit about 20 lacs of people in these areas. it would provide drinking water to their porched throats. This schemed would solve the drinking water problem faced by these 20 lacs of population. Water has to be drawn through canals from Athikhadavu. The required fund for this viable scheme at a cost of Rs. 135 crore needs to be allocated by the Governments both in the State and at the Centre. I request the Union Government to provide its share of 50% at the earliest to complete this project before any cost overrun could ground this project I request the Finance Minister to look into this. Let me bring to the notice of the Government the stopping of certain trains running via Erode. The business community from Erode, Tiruppur, Salem, Coimbatore are greatly affect by this. Turmeric, sugar, oil, handloom products etc. transported to other States especially to the Northern States are facing transport problem. Four to five trains have been stopped on this route while rescheduling their routes. These goods cannot be moved as easily as they used to be done due to inadequate rail traffic. So I would like to impress upon this Government especially the Railway Ministry to press into operation immediately certain other train services to enable the movement of these essential goods. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude. AN HON MEMBER : Sir, please allow him to continue. It is his maiden speech. SHRI V.K. CHINNASAMY : The Handloom Weavers' Association of Erode have submitted a memorandum to Hon'ble Prime Minister of India. MR. CHAIRMAN : Let him conclude in one minute. SHRI V.K. CHINNASAMY : In and around towns like Uthukuli, Chennimalai and Tiruppur, the places in and around my constituency production of ghee from home made butter is carried on like cottage industry. Every household in every village there around the region participates in this village level cottage industry. Excise duty has been levied on ghee and butter. This may be withdrawn. I request the Finance Minister to waive the excise duty levied on turmeric, pepper and tiles too. Handloom weavers were getting 20% rebate for the past 15 years right from the tenure of late Dr. Puratchi Thalaivar MGR. For the past two years the handloom weavers face several hardships. It is due to the withdrawal of this 20% rebate scheme. The DMK Government in Tamil Nadu has withdrawn the rebate. The plight of the handloom weavers have gone pitiable because of stagnation in the sale of these handloom goods. I urge upon the Union Government to intervene and ensure that both the Central and State Government provide cushion to boost up the sales of handloom goods offering rebate throughout the year. It would be better the Union Government itself come forward to procure all these handloom goods and dispose them off either in the domestic market or through exports to foreign countries. ... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : One minute is over. Shri Chinnasamy, please take your seat. You have spoken for 15 minutes. Please take your seat. Now, Shri N.K. Premchandran to speak. ... (Interruptions) SHRI V.K. CHINNASAMY ( GOBICHETTIPALAYAM ): Please give me one minute. Now there is a rumour that centre is oing to ban tobacco cultivation in Tamil Nadu. This has created a panic giving rise to crisis sales. Farmers are greately agitated and plan to give up tobacco cultivation. Traders also pay them less price. So I request the Union Government not to ban tobacco cultivation in Tamil Nadu as it would affect hundred of agriculturists and families which rely on them. MR. CHAIRMAN: You have taken 15 minutes. You are the second speaker of your Party. SHRI V.K. CHINNASAMY ( GOBICHETTIPALAYAM ): Please give me one minute. ... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record, except Shri Premchandran's speech. Shri Chinnasamy, please take your seat now. (Interruptions)* 

__________________________________________________________________________ 

* Not Recorded 

SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY ( PURI ): Sir, I am on a point of order and it is regarding the strike by postal employees. We came to know from outside that the strike has been called off, but the Government has not intimated the same to this House. So, will you please instruct the Government to intimate the real position to this House? We would like to know whether it has been really called off or not. MR. CHAIRMAN: I do not know whether the Finance Minister is in a position to inform this House. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Sir, I will send a word to my colleague. MR. CHAIRMAN: It should be conveyed to the Minister of Communications that she should inform the House about the latest position in regard to the postal employees' strike. ... (Interruptions) SHRI V.K. CHINNASAMY : Sir, please give me one minute. MR. CHAIRMAN: You can pass on your papers to the Finance Minister. I have already called Shri Premchandran. ... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record, except Shri Premchandran's speech. (Interruptions)* 

___________________________________________________________________________ 

* Not Recorded 

 

">SHRI N.K. PREMCHANDRAN ( QUILON ): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Sir, for giving me the opportunity to express my views in regard to this Finance (No. 2) Bill, 1998. I rise to oppose this Bill because the general character of this Bill is favouring or benefiting the multinational companies or corporates and the rich people of the society. The concept of this Budget has been extensively discussed. I would like to say one thing on this Finance Bill also. Now-a-days, it has become a practice, when we formulate the Budget proposals or when we formulate the tax proposals, to give much importance to the rich class in the society. We are ignoring the toiling masses, the working class, the peasants and the common mass of this country. This Finance Bill is also moving in the same direction benefiting the rich class or the haves in the society. We do agree with the Finance Minister that the economic growth of the country is the main factor in determining the welfare measures. But the economic growth should grow with equity. MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Premchandran, just a minute. The Parliamentary Affairs Minister is here. श्री मदन लाल खुराना: महोदय, पोस्टल स्ट्राइक के बारे में मंत्री महोदया राज्य सभा में साढ़े पांच बजे स्टेटमेंट दे रही हैं, कयोंकि वह सदन साढ़े पांच बजे एडजार्न हो जाता हैं। उसके बाद मैं उनसे निवेदन करूंगा कि वे यहां आ जायें। SHRI P.C. CHACKO ( IDUKKI ): The whole country is undergoing through this agony. Kindly tell us whether the strike is over or not. We do not want any speeches. श्री मदन लाल खुराना: वे स्वयं यहां आकर बतायेंगी। MR. CHAIRMAN: She is going to make a statement in the Rajya Sabha. श्री मदन लाल खुराना: वे बतायेंगी। साढ़े पांच बजे वहां स्टेंटमेंट देकर तुरन्त यहां आ जायेंगी। SHRI N.K. PREMCHANDRAN ( QUILON ): Sir, the Preamble of our Constitution as well as the Directive Principles of State Policy envisage for a welfare State and economic justice. So, one of the main questions to be considered as far as this Finance Bill is concerned is whether the tax proposals would lead to economic justice or not. My answer to that is `no' because the main lacuna in the tax structure of our country is that we are not able to collect the taxes in due course. That is the main thing which I would like to highlight. There is a lack of proper and effective mechanism to collect the taxes. It is astonishing to note that the total present arrears, both under direct and indirect taxes, are more than Rs. 50,000 crore. That itself is sufficient to overcome most of the defects that our economy is facing. There is also a high asymmetry existing in between the direct and indirect taxes collection. What is the percentage of contribution of dirct and indirect taxes from 1992-93 to 1997-98 in the gross tax revenue? It is 36 per cent in the case of direct taxes and 64 per cent in the case of indirect taxes, that is, by way of customs duty and excise duty. It indicates that we are relying or depending much upon the indirect taxes. That is why, 64 per cent of the total tax revenue is from the indirect taxes and only 36 per cent is from the direct taxes. So, I would like to say that it is undesirable and it is not good for a country where 40 per cent of the people are living below the poverty line. It will place heavy burden upon the common mass of the country and it will also result in a negative economic growth also. So, Sir, I suggest that they should have a proper and effective enforcement mechanism to collect the taxes. As far as the concessions, benefits and extensions are concerned, I have already said that we are giving it to the multinational companies, corporates and the rich people of the society. Last year, the former Finance Minister, in the last Budget, had introduced a new scheme, that is, Voluntary Disclosure of Income Scheme. We do not know who have deposited and how much amount. The Parliament, the supreme august body, is not aware of who deposited how much amount. It has not been disclosed; that may be one of the conditions of the Scheme. But it is learnt that so many politicians are also involved. I have heard from some source that Rs. 170 crore have been brought to the Income Tax Commissioner's Office in two trucks and they were not able to count it even. I would say that we are indirectly encouraging black money. We are indirectly encouraging tax evasion also. So, I would like to know from the hon. Finance Minister whether it is possible to disclose the name of the persons who have submitted the amount at least after closing this. Now there is a new scheme, Kar Vivad Samadhan Scheme. A lot of concessions are going to be given from 31st March, 1998 by offering waiver of a part of tax arrears and also interest and providing immunity against prosecution and penalties. This kind of giving exemptions, concessions and benefits to tax evaders shall not be made a permanent practice, as in that case, tax evasion will be a continuous practice. Now, I come to the excise duty structure. Almost all hon. Members have expressed their concern regarding 8 per cent duty on packaged tea and branded edibles and sweets which are putting much of a burden on the common man. MR. CHAIRMAN : The hon. Member may conclude within one minute. SHRI N.K. PREMCHANDRAN : I hope that the Finance Minister will withdraw the tax proposal which has already been made here. I now come to the next proposal regarding 5 per cent excise duty on rubber coir mattress. It is purely an agro-based industrial product because 70 per cent of the coir mattress is from coconut fibre and 30 per cent is from rubber. Suppose 5 per cent excise duty is imposed upon it, the entire tyre industry will suffer. It is also against the policy of the Government. This Budget speech also is giving much thrust to the eco-friendly relationship. But why 5 per cent excise duty is being imposed? It cannot be legitimately explained. I would like to request the hon. Finance Minister to withdraw it because rubber tyre industry is competing with the polyurethene foams because polyurethene foams are made with raw materials which are totally imported. It will affect the indigenous industry and our economy will also be affected. There are 92 rubber based coir industries in total in India and 1,000 small-scale coconut fibre extraction units also. All these units will suffer. Five per cent excise duty upon the rubberised coir mattress may be withdrawn. I would also like to say another thing. It is about the duty on caprolactam. The duty has been reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. FACT is a major public sector unit in the State of Kerala. With this measure, it will suffer very much by way of reduction of the customs duty from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. It is also having a social commitment because food security of the country is mainly dependent on fertilizers. So, that suggestion may also be taken into consideration. Now I come to the tapal tariff. The price of postal articles is going up. The price of Inland Letter has been increased from one rupee to Rs.1.50, so also, the price of postage cover has been increased from rupees two to rupees three. These are all affecting the common masses of the country because the common people, the poor people are depending on all these communication systems. The rich people in the society are having so many other most modern technological equipment. So, this issue also should be reviewed. For the Road Development Fund also, the hon. Minister has increased the price of petrol by rupee one per litre. The Government is expected to be collecting Rs.790 crore out of the Road Development Fund scheme. I would like to say that we should develop infrastructure facilities by way of BOT scheme. I think the Government should not impose much duty on petrol which is causing a heavy burden on the common people. I would welcome the hon. Finance Minister's proposal in regard to sports. The Finance Minister has announced the setting up of a National Sports Fund for the promotion of sports and games in the country. It is a very welcome suggestion. We were witnessing the finals of the World Cup Football Tournament. What is the position of India in the World Cup Football Tournament? Like the Atlanta Olympics, without Leander Paes, the medals tally of India would have been zero. He had got a bronze medal. Otherwise, India would have been a zero in the medals tally. So, we have to promote sports and games in our country for which a Fund has to be constituted. There should be proper administration and management of sports in the country. The Government of India should have a sports policy and on the basis of that, we can promote sports and games also. Croatia which is having only forty lakhs of people have got the third place in the World Cup Football Tournament. But what is the position of India? I think the position of India in the World Cup Football Tournament is 106. That is the statistics which we have. So, I would welcome this suggestion of the hon. Minister. There should be proper administration and management of sports. I welcome the Government's intention of having a sports policy. All the taxes, the direct tax, the indirect tax, the service tax, tapal revenue, do constitute the Central resources. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN : I am concluding. There are two things with respect to my State. I would like to say that there is no just and equitable allocation of Central resources among the States. For example, the per capita outlay allocation to Kerala is much below the national average. The per capita outlay allocation to Kerala is Rs. 1883 as against the national average of Rs. 2162...(Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: The Minister of Communications wants to make a statement. She wants to go to the Rajya Sabha after that. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN :I am concluding. I will take just only one minute. Coming to my point, I would request that this deficiency should be rectified. It should be taken into consideration and it should be rectified. Similarly, the Central sector investment in Kerala has come down from 3.24 per cent in 1975 to 1.8 per cent in the year 1995. I suggest that plan allocation and Central investments should be based on population, per capita income and unemployment. The corporate income-tax has to be made a shareable revenue. The Tenth Finance Commission recommended and accepted it. I think he has also accepted it. I hope that without any further delay, he will come forth before the House with the proposal so that we can approve it also. Finally, I would suggest one more thing. Just like that of the Sports Fund, I appeal to the hon. Finance Minister to constitute a Fund for the rehabilitation of the Gulf returnees. Yesterday, I got an answer from the hon. Prime Minister saying that 30 lakh Indians are working in the Gulf countries. That means that the Gulf countries are the main foreign exchange-earning sector to us. The Non-Resident Indians in the Gulf countries contribute a lot. Thirty thousand Malayalees have returned from the UAE. It amounts to a loss of foreign exchange of Rs.1000 crore. Thirty per cent of the foreign exchange earnings is from the Gulf countries. So, I suggest that a permanent rehabilitation fund and scheme has to be constituted so as to rehabilitate the Gulf returnees. It will also help for the welfare of these people. With these words, I conclude. Thank you very much. SHRI HANNAN MOLLAH ( ULUBERIA ): Sir, what happened to the postal strike? Has any settlement been reached or not? Where is the Minister?...(Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : She will be coming. ... (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Chaman Lal Gupta to speak. ... (Interruptions) SHRI HANNAN MOLLAH : The hon. Minister of Communications is here. We want to know about the latest position in respect of postal strike...(Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Let him start now. She will come and make a statement. Please take your seats. ... (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : She has been called by the hon. Speaker. Please have some patience. She is coming back...(Interruptions) SHRI HANNAN MOLLAH : What is the latest position about the postal strike?...(Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Guptaji, please take your seat. Let the Minister of Communications make a statement. I would like to talk about rubberised coir. Shri P.C. Chacko has also mentioned it. I understand that the Standing Committee on Finance has strongly recommended that this item should be exempted from duty. Not only rubberised coir, there are some indigenous products made by Chavari Minerals, Travancore Chemicals, and Fertilisers and Chemicals Udyog Mandal, Alwaye, which are required to be exempted from duty. These are indigenous products and these are only intermediaries. These are not finished goods. The total tax collection from these indigenous products would be very negligible. Why should the Government put these domestic industries to such great difficulty? Regarding production of phosphates and chemicals, they themselves do not produce finished goods. They rely on imported material. However, the importing agencies have finished goods because the Government has relaxed all import duties. A situation has arisen in the country where the domestic industry is not in a position to compete with the foreign industry. I would agree with the Finance Minister on one thing that he has enlarged the tax net. The provision of issuing PAN has been extended to 33 centres. That is all right but not sufficient. It will have to be extended to all areas in the country. The Government has to collect taxes through direct taxation in all places and in all fields and leave the poor man to do his job. The Finance Minister has proposed to introduce the Samadhan scheme. There also there is a flaw. According to the scheme, people whose taxes are in arrears and whose cases are in dispute can prefer an appeal following which the matter would be pending before the appellate authority and they need not pay their tax till the case is decided. But, there are innocent people, honest people, who may like to remit the tax first and prefer an appeal later. While the person who has intentionally not paid his tax arrears is getting the benefit of this scheme, the person who has remitted the tax arrears is deprived of settlement of his dispute under this scheme. I urge upon the Finance Minister to enlarge the scope of Samadhan to include the taxpayer who has remitted his tax arrears. If he does not do it, he would be doing injustice to people who have already paid their tax arrears. I hope the Minister would understand the position and would take a decision to include this category of cases also in the scheme. There is another matter which I would like to impress upon the hon. Finance Minister and that is in regard to the nationalisation of insurance sector. You have not defined as to what is a `private firm'. I was trying to understand as to what is a `private firm'. Is it Indian or multinational or multinational-cum-Indian? I do not know. We can express an opinion on this aspect only when it is defined. In regard to nationalisation of insurance sector, I would like to know as to what exactly the Government is proposed to bring in. Which is a real private firm? That must be made clear. Then only we can take a decision. Anyhow, at any rate, we are strongly opposed to nationalisation of insurance sector. ... (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Are you opposed to nationalistion or denationalisation? SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN :Now, among the public sector undertakings, my learned friend, the hon. Finance Minister is aware that nationalisation of insurance sector was introduced by Shrimati Indira Gandhi because of the fact that insurance people and private entrepreneurs were defrauding public money. That was the reason why she nationalised the insurance sector. We are reverting it. If we revert it to that position, generally the situation will not be better. The poor man's money will be left to the private individuals or dishonest people who will definitely defraud public money. There is no doubt about it. Moreover, the GIC as well as the LIC are doing the business with a considerable profit. You cannot say that they are bringing liabilities to the Exchequer. You cannot claim that. The GIC as well as the LIC have increased their business by three or even four or five times. That will not be the reason for nationalising the public sector undertakings in the insurance sector. We vehemently oppose the policy of the Government in that respect. I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact as to why should we impose Rs.500 as Foreign Travel Tax. Poor people from my place as well as from other parts of India are going to gulf countries. Whenever they proceed or return from gulf countries, the airport authorities collect Rs.500. Previously they were collecting Rs.750. Now, it is reduced to Rs.500. Why should that amount be collected? Moreover, one-third of it goes to the agency of the private airlines and the Central Government will be getting two-thirds of it. After all these poor labourers or workers seek employment abroad with a visa. They spend thousands and thousands of rupees to get the visa from gulf countries. At that time, Shri Yashwant Sinha is demanding the amount. You pay Rs.500 then only you can leave this country. That is the position. I do not know whether you are aware of it or not. In our State, thousands and thousands of people are proceeding every day to gulf countries seeking employments. After all, you get a negligible amount. I can understand when you take money from rich tourists. I hope the hon. Finance Minister will take a sympathetic view in both the matters. (Interruptions) I will not take too much time. Before I conclude, I may be permitted to bring to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister the increase in customs duty of certain items. The hon. Finance Minister has given a list of 98 items which relate to the common man. Sir, if you want to purchase a paper, which is of better quality or imported quality, you will have to pay additional excise duty. Suppose, you wish to purchase an imported pen, you will have to pay additional duty. I will not take too much time by reading out all these items. He has given certain concessions with regard to items like video cassettes. But if a man wants to purchase paper or some other household material, he will have to pay more. I am not speaking from the air, I am speaking from the list given in this Book. If you go through this list he has exempted so many items like software, television, etc. But the duty has been increased on material used for construction of a house. On petroleum products, duty has been increased, or for that matter any other material which may affect the common man's purchasing power, excise duty has been increased. With due respect to Shri Yashwant Sinha, I would like to know how would he justify this increase. That is why, after hearing Shri Chidamabaram, I came to the conclusion that what he has said is correct that the hon. Finance Minister has put a proposal for bringing the inflation rate to double digit. Previously, it was in single digit. It is because the excise duty is so much that it will definitely affect the common man and the poor man in his purchasing capacity. On medical, surgical and other items like medicines etc. duty has been increased. The duty has been increased from five per cent to eight per cent on medical equipment. Duty has been increased to eight per cent on spectacles. I do not think the hon. Minister uses them but I use them. These are items which concern the poor man of this country. So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to reduce as far as possible this increase in duties and change the duty rates also. With these words, I strongly oppose this Finance Bill. So, I request the Government to see that elections to the Co-operatives bodies in Tamil Nadu are held in accordance with the proposed Act. Then alone the Co-operative Banks and other bodies would be able to discharge their duties effectively. I urge upon the Finance Minister to look into it. I would like to thank the Hon'ble Speaker for giving me this opportunity to speak on this bill. While expressing my support to this Bill moved by the Hon'ble Finance Minister I would like to reiterate the need to allocate adequate funds to meet the basic needs and several other developmental schemes. With this I conclude. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- * *Translation of the Speech originally delivered in Tamil.