AMIT SHARMA, J. 1. The present petition under Section 397 read with Section 482 of the
 Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (‗ CrPC ') assails the order dated 13.03.2023
 whereby an application of the petitioner under Section 227 of Cr.P.C was
 dismissed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-02, South District, Saket
 Court, New Delhi in SC 54/2020 arising from FIR No. 227/2019 under CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 1 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 Sections 307 / 471 read with Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (‗ IPC ') registered at PS Hauz Khas, and the learned ASJ ordered the framing
 of charges and charged the petitioner under Sections 307 / 471 read with Section 120-B of IPC vide order on charge dated 20.04.2023.
 BACKGROUND 2. The brief facts, necessary for the disposal of the present petition are as
 under: 3. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted
 that the learned Trial Court in the impugned order has erred by framing
 charges against the petitioner as it is merely based on three aspects, which are
 as follows: 4. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner pointed
 out that as per the provisions of Section 27 of The Indian Evidence Act, the
 charge of conspiracy by the present petitioner cannot be based merely on the
 disclosure statement of a co-accused. Even for framing charge, prima facie,
 some other evidence must be brought on record. To establish the aforesaid,
 reliance was placed on the judgment of Vipin Singh @ Vishwaraj Singh v.
 State of Madhya Pradesh , decided by learned Single Judge of High Court
 of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur on 09.06.2020 in Criminal Revision No.
 1137/2019, wherein it was held as under: 5. Learned Senior Counsel also submitted that the son of the petitioner is
 an authorized signatory and not a beneficiary of the aforesaid coal deal. It was
 further contended that the learned Trial Court has also failed to appreciate that
 the petitioner had no financial interest in the coal deal. 6. Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that there is not even a single
 witness deposing against the petitioner in their statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C by the respondent before the learned Trial Court. 7. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that call detail records alone cannot
 be relied upon for proving conspiracy or framing charges. Moreover, in the
 absence of any transcription related to the alleged conversations, the evidence
 lacks probative value. It was further submitted that the impugned order fails
 to appreciate the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Babubhai
 Bhimabhai Bokharia and Anr. v. State of Gujrat and Ors., (2014) 5 SCC 568. Attention of this Court was drawn to Para 21 of the judgment, wherein
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court clarified that in the absence of contents of the
 conversation, CDR's alone cannot be sufficient to establish complicity in the
 crime. In paragraph 21 of the said judgment it has been observed and held as
 under: 8. Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that there is no evidence on record
 to corroborate the disclosure statements of the co-accused persons. It was also
 submitted that the learned Trial Court has failed to appreciate the multiple
 contradictions in the disclosure statements of the co-accused persons.
 Reliance was placed by the Learned Senior Counsel on the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court's judgment in Dipakbhai Jagdish Chandra Patel v. State of Gujarat
 & Anr, (2019) 16 SCC 547 (Para 8 and Para 23). Further, it was pointed
 out that the learned Trial Court has failed to appreciate the ratio in the
 aforesaid judgment wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the
 disclosure statement of co-accused persons made before the police cannot CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 6 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 have evidentiary value, and solely on the basis of the same, charges shall not
 be framed. 9. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that the Respondent has failed to
 establish how the alleged conspiracy was hatched in furtherance of which the
 alleged incident took place. Reliance was placed on the judgment of the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court in Satyapal Singh v. The State (NCT of
 Delhi ), 2018 SCC Online Del 7905, wherein the essential ingredients
 required to establish the offence of criminal conspiracy were discussed. It was
 submitted that the present case does not fall within the following categories as
 enumerated in the said judgment : 10. Learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the following judgments: ii. Afzal v. State of M.P. , 2019 SCC OnLine MP 6421 (Para 24): SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 11. Learned APP for State assisted by learned Senior Counsel for
 complainant have submitted that there is sufficient material on record to
 frame charge against the accused persons. It is further submitted that the
 assault on the complainant was a pre-meditated one arising out of a well
 hatched conspiracy. It is also pointed out that the petitioner was disgruntled
 with the complainant who being the Chairman of SAIL had stopped the
 payment for sub-standard coal supplied by the son of the petitioner. 12. Learned APP for State assisted by learned Senior Counsel for
 complainant have further submitted that recoveries pursuant to the disclosure
 statements have been made in the present case. It is further submitted that had
 the patrolling party not reached the spot by chance, the complainant would
 have been killed. 13. On behalf of the State reliance was placed on the following judgments: 14. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that Sh. Anand the son of the
 petitioner only signed the agreement in the capacity of Authorized
 Representative of Sonam Trading FZC and had no other financial interest
 involved in the aforesaid agreement. 15. Learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the dispute arising out of
 the aforesaid agreement had already been referred to Arbitration in ICC
 Arbitration Case No. 23597/PTA/HTG between SAIL (India) (claimant) and
 Sonam Trading FZC (United Arab Emirates) (respondent) and, therefore,
 complainant had no further role to play in respect of the said deal and
 assaulting the complainant would not have served any purpose.
 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 16. Since the present petition challenges the legality and propriety of the
 impugned order on charge dated 13.03.2023, the relevant paragraphs of the
 said order are being reproduced below:- 10. In Judgment dated 05.02.2004 in Appeal (Crl.) 1105 of 1997 titled as Anter Singh Vs State of Rajasthan , the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 held as follows : "11. The scope and ambit of Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act were illuminatingly stated in Pulukuri Kotayya v. Emperor AIR 1947 PC 67 in
 the following words, which have become locus
 classicus: (AIR p.70, para 10) „
 "It is fallacious to treat the 'fact discovered'
 within the section as equivalent to the object
 produced; the fact discovered embraces the place
 from which the object is produced and the
 knowledge of the accused as to this, and the
 information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
 Information as to past user, or the past history, of
 the object produced is not related to its discovery
 in the setting in which it is discovered. Information
 supplied by a person in custody that 'I will produce
 a knife concealed in the roof of my house' does not
 lead to the discovery of a knife; knives were
 discovered many years ago. It leads to the
 discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the
 house of the information to his knowledge, and if
 the knife is proved to have been used in the
 commission of the offence, the fact discovered is
 very relevant. But if to the statement the words be
 added 'with which stabbed A', these words are
 inadmissible since they do not related to the
 discovery of the knife in the house of the
 informant." 11. Regarding Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, it has been
 held by Hon 'ble Supreme Court of India in Jaffar Hussain Dastagir Vs
 State of Maharashtra , AIR 1970 SC 1934 that the essential ingredient of
 the section is that the information given by the accused must lead to the
 discovery of the fact which is the direct outcome of such information.
 Secondly, only such portion of the information given as is distinctly
 connected with the said recovery is admissible against the accused.
 Thirdly, the discovery of the fact must relate to the commission of some CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 12 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 offence. The embargo on statements of the accused before the police will
 not apply if all the above conditions are fulfilled. 12. Coming to the facts of the present case, the chargesheet discloses that
 on 07.08.2019 at around 10:30 PM, accused Lalit, Amarjeet, Om Prakash
 and Pravesh followed the complainant Sh. Anil Kumar Choudhary,
 Chairman, Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) who was returning home
 for his office in his car make Toyota Corolla bearing registration number
 DL-14CD-040 1 being driven by his driver Sh. N. K. Pathak. The
 accused persons started following him in one silver coloured car make
 Honda City bearing registration number DL-4CAB-0408 from the
 moment when complainant left his office and intercepted his car after
 overtaking it. They also tried to hit the car of the complainant in their bid
 to stop it. The charge-sheet shows that the front right door and right
 motorguard of the complainant's car got scratched and silver paint of the
 car of the accused persons was found at those places. 13. After obstructing the complainant's car, the above-said four accused
 persons got down from their car and attacked the complainant and his
 driver who had also come out of their own car. One of the assailants was
 carrying iron rod in his hand. The complainant was also hit on his head
 with the iron rod. Since the complainant dodged the same, the iron rod
 hit him on his shoulder. The assailants also hit the complainant on his
 legs with iron rod. The MLC of the complainant would show that the
 complainant suffered simple blunt injuries i.e. Swelling LT shin and
 Abrasions RT hip, medial side of RT knee, LT knee medial aspect, LT
 shin. When complainant raised alarm, one of the assailants took out a
 paper cutter from his car and tried to cause injury on his neck. The
 complainant somehow saved himself. This pre-meditated assault could
 have taken an ugly turn had the patrolling staff of PS Defence Colony
 not reached the spot by chance. 14. While accused Lalit and Amarjeet were caught on the spot, the other
 two accused fled from there. The identities of the other two assailants
 were disclosed to be Om Prakash Sharma and Pravesh Kumar. After
 arrest, accused Om Prakash refused his TIP. Even though Sh. N.K.
 Pathak, driver of the complainant could not identify accused Pravesh
 Kumar during TIP but the complainant identified him in the police
 station as one of the assailants. Accused Pravesh Kumar had refused the
 subsequent TIP proceedings pursuant to which complainant identified
 him in the police station. The complainant also identified accused Om CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 13 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 Prakash in the police station as the one who had inflicted injuries on him
 with iron rod. The complainant also identified accused Lalit as the one
 who had tried to inflict sharp injuries on his neck with a paper cutter.
 Accused Amarjeet had beaten up the complainant and gave kick blows
 and fist blows to him. 15. The investigation further disclosed that accused Om Prakash was
 carrying a country made pistol at the time when he and the above-said
 three co-accused were following the complainant's car. The country
 made pistol with one live round was also recovered at the instance of
 accused Om Prakash on 11.08.2019. Paper cutter and iron rod were
 recovered from the spot on 08.08.2019. The car used by the four
 assailants was found to be a stolen car in respect of which an e-FIR No.
 009411 dated 16.03.2019 u/s 379 IPC PS Sarai Rohilla had been
 registered. The actual registration number of the said car was DL-3C4K-
 5626 and was used by the accused persons under a fake number plate
 bearing registration no. DL-4CAB-0408. 16. Mobile phone of accused Lalit was seized on 08.08.2019 and it was
 found containing a photograph of the complainant's car clicked on
 01.08.2019. 17. The entire actual conspiracy came to the fore after the investigation
 of the case was transferred to STF /Crime Branch. It came to light that
 accused Sunil Kumar Balhera, accused Satender @ Chhutku and accused
 Om Prakash entered into a conspiracy pursuant to which they conducted
 recce of the route taken by the complainant from his home to office. On
 the day of incident, the accused Om Prakash, accused Amarjeet, accused
 Lalit and accused Pravesh started following the car of the complainant
 after getting signal from accused Sunil Kumar Balhera and Satender @
 Chhutku. For some distance, accused Sunil Kumar Balhera and Satender
 @ Chhutku also followed them. After the incident when accused Om
 Prakash and Pravesh fled from the spot, they met accused Sunil Kumar
 Balhera and Satender @ Chhutku at Ashoka Hotel Petrol Pump. 18. The prosecution has relied upon the CDRs and location charts to
 show the presence of the accused Satender @ Chhutku and accused Sunil
 Kumar Balhera on 01.08.2019 and on the date of incident. As part of the
 conspiracy, photograph of the car of the complainant was taken by
 Satender @ Chhutku and fowarded to accused Lalit. This photograph
 was found on the mobile phone of accused Lalit. 19. The CDRs of the accused persons show that from 01.07.2019 to
 09.08.2019, accused Om Prakash Sharma and accused Satender @
 Chhutku made about 123 calls to each other. Accused Sunil Kumar
 Balhera and accused Satender @ Chhutku made around 1 09 calls to
 each other during this period. Around 20 calls were exchanged between
 accused Ashok Kumar Singh and Sunil Kumar Balhera during this
 period. 20. The arrest of accused Sunil Kumar Balhera led to the discovery
 of the fact of conspiracy flowing from accused Ashok Kumar Singh.
 That accused Sunil Kumar Balhera and Ashok Kumar Singh were
 known to each other is not disputed. It came to light that son of
 accused A. K. Singh was involved in transaction of importing about
 75,000 metric tonnes of coking coal to be supplied to SAIL. Since the
 imported coal did not meet the requisite specifications, payment in
 sum of Rs 80 to Rs 85 Crores was stuck and accused A. K. Singh
 held complainant Sh. Anil Kumar Chaudhary, Chairman, SAIL
 responsible for it. 21. Supplementary charge-sheet discloses that m 01.09.2017, an
 Agreement for Sale and Purchase of 75,000 metric tonne of coking
 coal was entered into between SAIL (purchaser) and Sonam Trading
 FZC, UAE, a company incorporated in UAE (seller). This agreement
 for sale and purchase had been signed by Sh. Anand who is the son
 of accused Ashok Kumar Singh. Sh. Anand signed the said
 Agreement in the capacity of Authorized Representative of Sonam
 Trading FZC. Accused Ashok Kumar Singh was, therefore, not a
 stranger to this deal so far as the present case is concerned. *** *** *** 23. It is well settled that a criminal conspiracy is generally hatched in
 secrecy, and it is difficult to obtain direct evidence. The disclosure
 statements of the accused persons in the present case have led to
 discovery of such facts which prima facie disclose hatching of
 conspiracy by accused A. K. Singh with accused Sunil Kumar
 Balhera who further involved other co-accused persons in the said
 conspiracy. The motive of the conspiracy was to eliminate the
 complainant who was Chairman, SAIL so that the stuck payment
 towards the coal deal could be got released through some other
 officer of SAIL. This well hatched conspiracy manifested itself in a pre- meditated physical assault on the complainant. While two assailants were
 caught on the spot by the patrolling party, the other two assailants
 Pravesh and Om Prakash were identified later by the complainant. The
 investigation led to discovery of conspiracy hatched by accused
 Ashok Kumar Singh, Sunil Balhera and Satender@ Chhutku
 pursuant to which complainant was attacked. The CDRs as well as
 the documents related to the dispute over payment on account of
 coal supply were also seized during investigation and prima facie
 corroborate the allegations against the accused persons. *** *** *** 25. The circumstances discussed above do not call for discharge of
 accused Ashok Kumar Singh who has emerged as the main conspirator
 in the present case. At the stage of framing of charge, a mini trial case
 not be conducted and the Court is only required to see whether the
 circumstances on record prima facie give rise to a grave suspicion
 against the accused persons or not. In Judgment dated 27.01.2010 in
 Criminal Appeal No. 192 of 2010 (Arising out of SLP (Crl) No. 4708 of
 2007) titled asP Vijayan Vs State of Kerala & Anr., Hon 'ble Supreme
 Court of India has reiterated in this judgment that the settled legal
 position is that if on the basis of material on record the Court could form
 an opinion that the accused might have committed offence it can frame
 the charge, though for conviction the conclusion is required to be proved
 beyond reasonable doubt that the accused has committed the offence. At
 the time of framing of the charges, the probative value of the material on
 record cannot be gone into, and the material brought on record by the
 prosecution has to be accepted as true. Whether, in fact, the accused
 committed the offence, can only be decided in the trial. Charge may be
 directed to be framed when there exists a strong suspicion but it is also
 trite that the Court must come to a prima facie finding that there exist
 some materials therefore. Suspicion alone, without anything more,
 cannot form the basis therefore or held to be sufficient for framing
 charge. It was also held that it is immaterial whether the trial would end
 in conviction or acquittal.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 17. From the above discussion, it appears that learned ASJ proceeded to
 frame charge against the present petitioner by relying on the disclosure CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 16 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 statement of the co-accused Sunil Kumar Balhara and connection of the
 present petitioner with the said co-accused by way of call detail records
 (CDRs). The fact that the son of the petitioner was involved in arbitration
 proceedings with SAIL and the complainant being the chairman of SAIL was
 not in favour of releasing the payment towards the coal deal, has been
 considered as additional circumstance for framing charge. 18. While relying upon the disclosure statement, the learned ASJ came to
 the conclusion that the said statement of Sunil Kumar Balhera led to
 discovery of fact, which, prima facie, disclosed the hatching of conspiracy by
 the present petitioner with accused Sunil Kumar Balhera. The learned ASJ
 observes as under:- 19. Reliance was placed by learned Senior Counsel on the judgment of Siju
 Kurian v. State of Karnataka , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 429, wherein it has
 been observed and held as under:- 20. Relying on the aforesaid observations, it was contended that the
 disclosure statement of accused Sunil Kumar Balhara, revealed the angle of
 conspiracy which was otherwise not in the knowledge of the Investigating
 Officer. It is submitted that the entire incident was being taken as a probable
 case of road rage however, on the basis of statements made in the disclosure
 statement by Sunil Kumar Balhara, the alleged conspiracy came into light. It
 was contended that this should be considered as a fact being discovered at the
 instance of the co-accused, which would be admissible under Section 27 of
 the Indian Evidence Act. 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State v. Navjyot Sandhu , (2005) 11
 SCC 600, had a chance to deal with a similar contention and while
 interpreting Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act it was observed and held
 as under:- These issues have arisen especially in the context of the disclosure
 statement (Ext. PW-66/13) of Gilani to the police. According to the
 prosecution, the information furnished by Gilani on certain aspects,
 for instance, that the particular cellphones belonged to the other
 accused, Afzal and Shaukat, that the Christian Colony room was
 arranged by Shaukat in order to accommodate the slain terrorist
 Mohammed, that police uniforms and explosives ―were arranged‖
 and that the names of the five deceased terrorists were so and so are
 relevant under Section 27 of the Evidence Act as they were
 confirmed to be true by subsequent investigation and they reveal
 the awareness and knowledge of Gilani in regard to all these facts,
 even though no material objects were recovered directly at his
 instance. 115. The arguments of the learned counsel for the State run as
 follows: Therefore, Section 27 can admit of discovery of a plain mental
 fact concerning the informant accused. In that sense, Section 27 will apply whenever there is discovery (not in the narrower sense of
 recovery of a material object) as long as the discovery amounts to
 be confirmatory in character guaranteeing the truth of the
 information given, the only limitation being that the police officer
 should not have had access to those facts earlier. (ii) The application of the section is not contingent on the
 recovery of a physical object. Section 27 embodies the doctrine
 of confirmation by subsequent events. The fact investigated and
 found by the police consequent to the information disclosed by
 the accused amounts to confirmation of that piece of
 information. Only that piece of information, which is distinctly
 supported by confirmation, is rendered relevant and admissible
 under Section 27 . (iii) The physical object might have already been recovered, but
 the investigating agency may not have any clue as to the ―state of
 things‖ that surrounded that physical object. In such an event, if
 upon the disclosure made such state of things or facts within his
 knowledge in relation to a physical object are discovered, then also,
 it can be said to be discovery of fact within the meaning of Section 27. (iv) The other aspect is that the pointing out of a material object
 by the accused himself is not necessary in order to attribute the
 discovery to him. A person who makes a disclosure may himself
 lead the investigating officer to the place where the object is
 concealed. That is one clear instance of discovery of fact. But the
 scope of Section 27 is wider. Even if the accused does not point out
 the place where the material object is kept, the police, on the basis
 of information furnished by him, may launch an investigation
 which confirms the information given by the accused. Even in such
 a case, the information furnished by the accused becomes
 admissible against him as per Section 27 provided the correctness
 of information is confirmed by a subsequent step in investigation.
 At the same time, facts discovered as a result of investigation
 should be such as are directly relatable to the information. *** *** *** 119. We have noticed above that the confessions made to a police officer
 and a confession made by any person while he or she is in police custody
 cannot be proved against that person accused of an offence. Of course, a
 confession made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate can be
 proved against him. So also Section 162 CrPC bars the reception of any
 statements made to a police officer in the course of an investigation as
 evidence against the accused person at any enquiry or trial except to the
 extent that such statements can be made use of by the accused to
 contradict the witnesses. Such confessions are excluded for the reason
 that there is a grave risk of their statements being involuntary and false. Section 27 , which unusually starts with a proviso, lifts the ban against
 the admissibility of the confession/statement made to the police to a
 limited extent by allowing proof of information of a specified nature
 furnished by the accused in police custody. In that sense Section 27 is
 considered to be an exception to the rules embodied in Sections 25 and 26 (vide Udai Bhan v. State of U.P. [1962 Supp (2) SCR 830 : AIR 1962
 SC 1116 : (1962) 2 Cri LJ 251] ). Section 27 reads as follows: Thomas J. observed that: (SCC p. 283, para 35)
 ―The decision of the Privy Council in Pulukuri
 Kottaya v. Emperor [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] is
 the most quoted authority for supporting the interpretation that the
 ‗fact discovered' envisaged in the section embraces the place from
 which the object was produced, the knowledge of the accused as to
 it, but the information given must relate distinctly to that effect.‖
 In Mohd. Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra [(1976) 1 SCC 828 : 1976
 SCC (Cri) 199] , Sarkaria, J. while clarifying that the expression ―fact
 discovered‖ in Section 27 is not restricted to a physical or material fact
 which can be perceived by the senses, and that it does include a mental
 fact, explained the meaning by giving the gist of what was laid down
 in Pulukuri Kottaya case [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] . The learned Judge, speaking for the Bench observed thus: (SCC p. 832,
 para 13)
 "Now it is fairly settled that the expression „fact discovered‟
 includes not only the physical object produced, but also the
 place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the
 accused as to this (see Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor [AIR 1947
 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] ; Udai Bhan v. State of
 U.P. [1962 Supp (2) SCR 830 : AIR 1962 SC 1116 : (1962) 2 Cri
 LJ 251] )." 128. So also in Udai Bhan v. State of U.P. [1962 Supp (2) SCR 830 : 129. There is almost a direct decision of this Court in which the
 connotation of the expression ―fact‖ occurring in Section 27 was
 explored and a view similar to Sukhan case [AIR 1929 Lah 344 : 30 Cri
 LJ 414 (FB)] was taken on the supposition that the said view was
 approved by the Privy Council in Kottaya case [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri
 LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] . That decision is H.P. Admn. v. Om Prakash [H.P.
 Admn. v. Om Prakash, (1972) 1 SCC 249 : 1972 SCC (Cri) 88 : AIR
 1972 SC 975] . In that case, on the basis of information furnished by the
 accused to the police officer that he had purchased the weapon from a
 witness (PW 11) and that he would take the police to him, the police
 went to the thari of PW 11 where the accused pointed out PW 11 to the
 police. It was contended on behalf of the accused that the information
 that he purchased the dagger from PW 11 followed by his leading the
 police to the thari and pointing him out was inadmissible under Section
 27 of the Evidence Act. This argument was accepted. Jaganmohan
 Reddy, J. speaking for the Court observed thus: (SCC p. 261, para 13)
 "In our view there is force in this contention. A fact
 discovered within the meaning of Section 27 must refer to a
 material fact to which the information directly relates. In order
 to render the information admissible the fact discovered must
 be relevant and must have been such that it constitutes the
 information through which the discovery was made. What is
 the fact discovered in this case? Not the dagger but the dagger
 hid under the stone which is not known to the police
 (see Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ
 533 : 74 IA 65] ). But thereafter can it be said that the
 information furnished by the accused that he purchased the
 dagger from PW 11 led to a fact discovered when the accused
 took the police to the thari of PW 11 and pointed him out." *** *** *** 137. The next endeavour of Mr Gopal Subramanium was to convince us that
 the precedential force of the judgment in Om Prakash [H.P. Admn. v. Om
 Prakash, (1972) 1 SCC 249 : 1972 SCC (Cri) 88 : AIR 1972 SC 975] has been
 considerably eroded by the subsequent pronouncements. Two decisions have
 been cited to substantiate his contention. They are: Mohd. Inayatullah v. State CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 24 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 of Maharashtra [(1976) 1 SCC 828 : 1976 SCC (Cri) 199] and State of
 Maharashtra v. Damu [(2000) 6 SCC 269 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 1088] . We do not
 think that in any of these decisions "discovery of fact" was held to
 comprehend a pure and simple mental fact or state of mind relating to a
 physical object dissociated from the recovery of the physical object. 138. Let us revert back to the decision in Mohd. Inayatullah case [(1976) 1
 SCC 828 : 1976 SCC (Cri) 199] . The first sentence in para 13 (SCC p. 832) of
 the following passage which has already been referred to is relied on by the
 learned Senior Counsel for the State. The first sentence read with the second sentence in the above passage
 would support the contention of Mr Ram Jethmalani that the word "fact"
 embraces within its fold both the physical object as well as the mental
 element in relation thereto. This ruling in Inayatullah [(1976) 1 SCC 828 : 139. Let us see how far Damu case [(2000) 6 SCC 269 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 1088]
 supports the contention of Mr Gopal Subramanium. At the outset, we may CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 25 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 point out that Damu case [(2000) 6 SCC 269 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 1088] did not
 lay down any legal proposition beyond what was said in Kottaya case [AIR
 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] . The statement of law
 in Kottaya [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 48 Cri LJ 533 : 74 IA 65] (AIR at p. 70, para 10)
 that the fact discovered "embraces the place from which the object is
 produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information
 given must relate distinctly to this fact" was reiterated without any gloss
 or qualification. In that case, A-3 disclosed to the investigating officer that
 ―Dipak's dead body was carried by me and Guruji (A-2) on his motorcycle and
 thrown in the canal‖. The said statement of A-3 was not found admissible in
 evidence by the High Court as the dead body was not recovered pursuant to the
 disclosure made. This Court however took a different view and held that the
 said statement was admissible under Section 27 . It was held so in the light of
 the facts mentioned in paras 34 and 37. These are the facts: when an offer was
 made by A-3 that he would point out the spot, he was taken to the spot and
 there the IO found a broken piece of glass lying on the ground which was
 picked up by him. A motorcycle was recovered from the house of A-2 and its
 tail lamp was found broken. The broken glass piece recovered from the spot
 matched with and fitted into the broken tail lamp. With these facts presented to
 the Court, the learned Judges after referring to Kottaya case [AIR 1947 PC 67 : 283)
 ―37. How did the particular information lead to the discovery of the
 fact? No doubt, recovery of dead body of Dipak from the same canal was
 antecedent to the information which PW 44 obtained. If nothing more
 was recovered pursuant to and subsequent to obtaining the information
 from the accused, there would not have been any discovery of any fact at
 all. But when the broken glass piece was recovered from that spot and
 that piece was found to be part of the tail lamp of the motorcycle of A-2
 Guruji, it can safely be held that the investigating officer discovered the
 fact that A-2 Guruji had carried the dead body on that particular
 motorcycle up to the spot.‖
 (emphasis supplied)
 The events highlighted in the case speak for themselves and reveal the
 rationale of that decision. The view taken in Damu case [(2000) 6 SCC 269 : 22. As pointed out hereinabove, the disclosure statement of Sunil Kumar
 Balhera is only to the extent that the present petitioner was a co-conspirator.
 There has been no discovery of any physical fact/object in pursuance of the
 aforesaid disclosure statement. In the judgment relied upon by learned Senior
 Counsel in Siju Kurian (supra), it is pertinent to note that in the said case,
 the appellant therein had given a confessional statement Ex.P-2, which led to
 the recovery of the body of the victim from a certain place, which was then
 thereafter proved through various witnesses. Further, reliance was placed on Mehboob Ali & Anr. (supra), wherein, on the basis of the disclosure
 statement made by the appellant therein, two other persons were apprehended
 with forged currency notes which was otherwise not in the knowledge of the
 police. The disclosure statement made by co-accused Sunil Kumar Balhera,
 without any further recovery of physical fact, cannot be termed as admissible
 evidence. As noted hereinabove, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Navjot
 Sandhu (supra) has observed: 23. The second circumstance which is being placed on record, is the
 connectivity of the present petitioner with the co-accused Sunil Kumar
 Balhera reflecting that 20 calls were made between the two between
 01.07.2019 to 09.08.2019. It is pertinent to note that it is not denied that the CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 27 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 petitioner knew the co-accused Sunil Kumar Balhera. The alleged incident is
 of 07.08.2019. As per the CDR, there are two calls on 07.08.2019 and
 08.08.2019 between the present petitioner and co-accused Sunil Kumar
 Balhera. Admittedly, there is no transcript on record to demonstrate the nature
 of conversation between the said co-accused. The learned ASJ has taken into
 account the said circumstance in the background of the disclosure statement
 of the aforesaid co-accused. If the aforesaid disclosure of the co-accused
 cannot be read as admissible piece of evidence, then the present circumstance
 of phone call between them cannot be the sole basis to proceed and frame
 charge against the present petitioner. It is further pertinent to note that even
 co-accused Sunil Kumar Balhera was arrested on the disclosure statement of
 other co-accused persons. 24. The third circumstance is with respect to the alleged dispute between
 the petitioner's son and SAIL. It is the case of the prosecution that the
 complainant was chairman of SAIL at the relevant time and was opposing the
 release of money to the petitioner's son. It is the case of the prosecution that
 one company namely, M/s Sonam Trading, FZC, which was being
 represented by the petitioner's son had moved an application for permission
 to sell coal, which was being opposed by SAIL and at the time of the incident,
 the arbitration proceedings were going on, therefore, it is alleged that the
 present petitioner was involved in the conspiracy. 25. It is not the case of the prosecution that the complainant has given any
 statement to the effect that the petitioner or his son ever tried to influence or
 extend any threat with regard to the aforesaid transactions. At this stage, the
 following portions of the status report are relevant:- 26. The prosecution relies on the aforesaid disclosure statement to establish
 the involvement of the petitioner in the alleged conspiracy. In view of the
 judicial pronouncements, as discussed hereinabove, a disclosure statement of
 an accused would be inadmissible in evidence under Section 25 of the Indian
 Evidence Act unless the same leads to discovery of a physical fact. In such
 circumstances, except for the discovery of the said fact, no other portion of a
 disclosure statement would be admissible in evidence. The admissibility of a
 statement under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act would be limited to
 the discovery of physical fact and the knowledge with regard to the existence
 of the said fact against the maker. It has been reiterated that except for the
 aforesaid circumstance nothing in the statement would be read against the
 person making it. In other words, if the statement is inadmissible under Section 25 of the Evidence Act against the person making it then the same
 would be inadmissible against any other person including co-accused. In the
 present case, as already noted hereinabove, there is no discovery of physical
 fact in pursuance of the aforesaid disclosure statement and, therefore, the
 aforesaid disclosure statement of Sunil Kumar Balhera cannot be used against
 the present petitioner. 27. At the sake of repetition, it is noted that if the said disclosure statement
 is not read, then there is no way to connect the present petitioner in the CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 30 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15 present case. The CDR and petitioner's son's arbitration proceedings, without
 the disclosure statement, cannot be considered sufficient material to frame
 charges against the petitioner. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dilawar Balu
 Kurane v. State of Maharshtra , (2002) 2 SCC 135, has observed and held
 as under:- 28. In view of the above said legal position and the discussion hereinabove,
 this Court is of the considered opinion that there is no sufficient material on
 record qua the present petitioner in order to frame charges under Sections 307
 and 471 read with Section 120-B of the IPC and proceed with the trial. 29. The order on charge dated 13.03.2023 and framing of charge dated
 20.04.2023 are accordingly set aside. The petitioner stands discharged. 30. Petition is allowed and disposed of accordingly. 31. Pending application(s), if any, also stands disposed of accordingly. 32. Copy of the Judgment be sent to the learned Trial Court for necessary
 information and compliance. 33. Judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court forthwith. AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE
 MAY 30, 2024/sn CRL.REV.P. 745/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 32 of 32 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:31.05.2024 14:37:15