L.....I.........T.......T.......T.......T.......T.......T..J

 JUDGMENT

 PATTANAIK,J. These appeals by the Union of	India are directed
against	 the judgment of the Bombay High Court, Certificates
under Articles 132(1) and 133 of the Constitution for leave
to appeal to the Supreme Court having been granted by	 the
High Court itself. By the impugned judgment,	 the Bombay
High Court came to the conclusion that the action of	 the
Union Government in taking over the managements of the three
Cotton	Mills, namely, The Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving
Mills Company	Ltd., Jam Manufacturing Mills and New	City
Mills of Bombay under the provisions of Textile Undertakings
(Taking	 over of Management) Ordinance, 1983,	(hereinafter
referred to as The Ordinance) and the Textile Undertakings
(Taking	 over of Management) Act, 1983 (hereinafter referred
to as	The Act), infringed the fundamental right under Article	 14 of the Constitution and, therefore, qua them it
was invalid. The High Court also further came to hold that
the Act infringed the petitioners fundamental rights under Article	 19(1)(g) and on that count qua the petitioner	 was
equally	 invalid. In coming to the aforesaid conclusion the
High Court after thorough discussion of the materials on
record	found that the Union Government failed to establish
either	directly or inferentially any mis-management on	 the
part of the three companies and failed to establish from the
material on record that there was any nexus between the main
object	or purpose of the Act, viz., to take over management
of only those mills whose financial condition before strike
was wholly unsatisfactory by reason of mis-management. The short facts leading to the promulgation of	 the
Ordinance and	replacement of the same by the Act are	that
the Textile Mills in and around Bombay had gone on strike
with effect from 18.1.1982. On 15.2.1982 the Government of
India declared its policy for nationalisation of all these
Textile	 Industries. In October 1982, the Reserve Bank of
India had called a meeting to discuss the situation arising
out of the strike. Depending upon the economic conditions
of different mills the mills had been classified into three
groups.	 The continued Textile strike had deteriorated	 the
financial condition of all the Textile Mills and the Mills
were looking forward	to the	Financial Institutions	 and
Nationalised Banks for financial aid to make the Mills
viable.	 On 28th March, 1983, the Government of India wrote
letters	 to the Nationalised Banks and IDBI to conduct a
viability study of these Mills.	 The three Mills, with which
we are	 concerned, in these appeals had been	included in
category III.	 On 20th September, 1983, the Government of
India in the Ministry of Commerce had issued a Memorandum
constituting a Task Force to collect data and submit a note
for being placed before Economic Affairs Committee of	 the
Union Cabinet to enable it to take a decision as to which of
the Mills in category III would be Nationalised. The	said
Task Force submitted	its report by the end of September
1983.	On 18th October, 1983, the Ordinance was promulgated
and the management of 13 Textile Mills enumerated in	 the
First Schedule	 to the Ordinance was	taken over pending
Nationalisation	 of the Undertakings. The Ordinance
indicates that	 for re-organising and	re-habilitating	 the
Textile	 Mills	to protect the interest of	the workmen
employed therein, and to	augment	 the product	 and
distribution at fair price of different varieties of cloth
and yarn so as to subserve the interest of	the general
public, investment of very large sums of money was necessary
and for such investment, the Central Government felt	that
the acquisition of the Mills would be necessary, but since
acquisition would take some time and it was felt that it
would be expedient in the public interest to take over	 the
management of	the Undertakings, pending acquisition,	 and
that Parliament was not in Session, the President, on being
satisfied that	 circumstances exists for taking immediate
action,	 promulgated the Ordinance in exercise of powers
conferred under Article 123(1) of the	 Constitution.	 The
said Ordinance was replaced by the Act and the Act provided
that the same shall be deemed to have come into force on
18th day of	 October, 1983. Immediately	 after	 the
promulgation of the Ordinance the Management of the Mills,
enumerated in the First Schedule thereof, having been taken
over by the Government, the three Mills referred to earlier
filed three Writ Petitions in Bombay High Court challenging
the applicability of the Ordinance so far as those Mills are
concerned. After replacement of the Ordinance by the	 Act
the Writ Petitions were amended and thus the validity of the
Act was challenged qua the three Writ Petitioners. Though
the challenge	was on three counts, namely, violation of Article	 14 , violation of Article 19(1)(g) and violation of Article	 300A ,	but at the time of hearing the challenge in
relation to violation of Article 300A was not pressed	and,
therefore, the High Court considered the challenge, so	 far
as it	relates to violation of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of
the Constitution. The High Court in the impugned judgment
made elaborate discussion of the materials on record as well
as interpreted the different provisions of the Constitution
and came to hold that the act with its object of only taking
over the management cannot be considered to	be law	 for
taking	over the ownership and control of the property, as
required under Article 39(b) , but would squarely fall under Article	 31A (1)(b) and, therefore, Article 31(c) will	have
no application. The High Court also came to the conclusion
that to protect a legislation under Article 31(c) , there
must be a declaration in the legislation itself that the Act
was enacted to give effect to the Directive Principles under Article	 39(b) and (c), and in the case in hand, there being
no such declaration either in the Ordinance and in the Act, Article	 31(c) will have no application and, squarely	 the
challenge on the ground of violation of Article 14 or 19 has
to be	examined. On examining Article 31A(1)(b) the	High
Court was of	the opinion that two	conditions must be
satisfied for attracting Clause 1(b) of Article 31A , namely,
that the taking over of the management of the property by
the State would be for a limited period, and	such taking
over must be either in public interest or in order to secure
the proper management of the property, since the taking over
of management	was not for any limited period and in	fact
such management had been taken over pending nationalisation,
the provisions of Clause 1(b) of Article 31A would not	 get
attracted. According	to the High Court the expression
Pending Nationalisation cannot be held to be for a limited
period	and the protection of Article 31A (1)(b) would be
available only when there is a definite limit in the law for
the period of management and, consequently the challenge on
the anvil of violation of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) has to be
examined. The High Court then examined the factual aspect
for considering the question as to whether there were	 any
materials to put the three Mills in a class of Mills	 for
which	the taking over of	the management	 was meant
notwithstanding	 a declaration or recital in the Preamble
itself,	 the same being Mills whose financial condition had
become	wholly unsatisfactory by reason of mis-management.
The High Court then examined the different datas collected
by the	 Government of	 India as well	as several reports
including the Task Force Report and ultimately came to	 the
conclusion that even	though the financial condition	 had
become unsatisfactory but the Union Government has failed to
establish that such unsatisfactory financial condition is by
reason	of mis-management and, therefore, there was no nexus
between	 the basis of the classification of the petitioner
Mills with other mismanaged Mills and the said object	 and
the purpose of the Act.	 In other words, the High Court came
to the conclusion that inclusion of the three Mills in	 the
Schedule appended to the Ordinance and the Act was arbitrary
and, on the other hand, the figures given by the Union of
India itself show that the financial position of the three
Mills were far better than even the Mills which were in
category II.	Consequently, the High Court	was of	 the
opinion	 that the Government could not have, for taking over
of the	 management of the petitioners	 Mills,	 classified
those Mills as Mills whose financial condition was bad	 due
to mis-management. The High Court, therefore, ultimately
came to the conclusion that there has been a gross violation
of Article 14 in clubbing the three Mills with other Mills
in category three, enumerated in the Schedule appended to
the Act and such inclusion violates the fundamental right
guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. The	High
Court also came to the conclusion that the impugned	 Act
infringed the petitioners right under Article 19(1)(g) and
on that count qua petitioners was equally invalid. Having
come to the aforesaid conclusion the Writ Petitions	were
allowed	 and the order of taking over of the management of
three Mills was set aside. But the operation of the order
had been stayed for 8 weeks and certain restrictions	 had
been imposed and the High Court also	granted	 Certificate
under Article 132(1) and 133 of the Constitution for Leave
to Appeal to the Supreme Court. When the matter was listed
before	this Court the aforesaid interim order staying	 the
operation of the judgment was continued and later on certain
Misc.	Applications being filed by different Mills certain
orders	have been passed by the Court with regard to	 the
possession of	 certain assets, like, car, telephone
connections etc. When the appeals were taken up for hearing
in January 1985, the same had been heard before a Three
Judge Bench but after hearing for some time the Three Judge
Bench felt that in view of the questions which arise	 for
consideration, and in view of Clause 3 of Article 145 of the
Constitution the cases should be heard by a Bench of	 not
less than Five Honble Judges and that is why these appeals
were heard by us. Mr. Salve, the learned Solicitor General, appearing
for the appellant Union Government contended that the basic
approach of the High Court in examining the constitutional
validity of the Act is grossly erroneous and such approach
has vitiated the ultimate conclusion. According to	 the
learned	 Solicitor General, the financial condition of these
mills had become so bad that unless large sum of money from
the public exchequer was pumped into it, the mills were not
in a position	 to run and that in turn would have	made
thousands of labourers idle.	 To overcome the aforesaid
crisis	and since large scale government money was going to
be pumped into the Mills for making it	viable,	 the
Parliament itself thought it appropriate to take step	 for
acquiring the Mills and pending finalisation of acquisition
the Parliament	 thought it fit to take over the management
which was absolutely	necessary in the public interest.
According to Mr. Salve this is apparent from the	Bill
introduced by	the concerned Minister as well as the	 Act
itself	and in such a case the Court would not be justified
in examining the datas which persuaded the Parliament to
take the aforesaid decision to come to a conclusion that the
said decision of the Parliament could not have been taken on
the available materials. According to Mr. Salve the	fact
that the management of the Mills had been taken over until
the Mills are acquired by enacting an Acquisition Act,	 for
all practical	purposes the taking over was for a limited
period thereby attracting Clause 1(b) of Article 31A and the
High Court was in error in concluding that the taking	over
was not for a limited period and, as such, Clause 1(b) of Article	 31A will not get attracted. According to learned
Solicitor General the	 Act in question was for a limited
period	and had been enacted in the public interest coming
within	the purview of Clause (1)(b) of Article 31A and,
therefore, provisions of Article 14 or Article 19 cannot at
all be	 attracted for assailing the validity of the action
taken under the Act.	The learned Solicitor General	also
further urged that the materials which were there before the
Government before promulgation of the Ordinance and before
the Parliament before enactment of the Act were sufficient
for classifying the Mills into three categories and in fact
by inclusion of the three Mills with which we are concerned
in the present appeals with the group of 13, the Management
of which was being taken over by the Act, by no stretch of
imagination can be held to	be discriminatory nor	 the
conclusion of	the High Court that	there has been an
infringement of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution is at
all sustainable. The learned Solicitor General also placed
reliance on the averments made by the Union of India in its
Counter	 Affidavit filed before the High Court to indicate
how it was absolutely necessary to promulgate the Ordinance
and how the Government took the decision after	 considering
the reports submitted	 by the IDBI and other financial
institutions as well as the report of the so	called	Task
Force.	 He also placed reliance on the Affidavit of	 Mr.
Prabhat	 Kumar,	 the then Secretary Commerce explaining	 the
Task Force Report and contended that the High Court was in
error in basing its conclusion on the earlier Affidavit of
one Mr.	 Singh.	 According to learned Solicitor General that
while considering the constitutional validity of a statute,
more particularly a statute on economic matter, certain well
established principles	 evolved by the Courts as rules of
guidance in discharge	 of its constitutional	function of
judicial review have to be borne in mind, and in the case in
hand the impugned judgment of the High Court, on the face of
it, indicates	that those guiding principles have not	been
borne in mind.	 According to the learned Solicitor General
one cardinal principle well accepted	 and recognized by
Courts	is that the legislature understands and correctly
appreciates the needs of its own people and its laws	 are
directed to problems made manifest by experience and	 its
discrimination	are based on	 adequate grounds and	 the
presumption of constitutionality is indeed so strong that in
order to sustain it the Court may take into consideration
matters	 of common knowledge, matters of common report,	 the
history	 of the times and may assume every state of facts
which can be conceived existing at the time of legislation.
He further emphasised	 that the law relating	to economic
activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws
touching civil	 rights such as freedom of speech, religion
etc. and the High Court totally over-looked the aforesaid
approach and guidelines in basing its conclusion. According
to the	 learned Solicitor General the preamble of the	 Act
unequivocally indicates the Act to be a piece of legislation
for taking over in the public interest of the management of
the Textile Undertakings of the Companies specified in	 the
First Schedule pending nationalisation of such undertakings.
It no	doubt,	further stipulates that by reason of	mis-
management of	the affairs of the Textile	Undertakings
specified in the First Schedule their financial condition
became	wholly unsatisfactory but the financial condition of
these Mills had become so precarious and unsatisfactory as
was found from the	 reports of different financial
institutions including	 IDBI that mis-management is	 the
natural	 inference and the preamble read as a	whole would
indicate that the Parliament thought it appropriate to take
over the management of Textile Undertakings in the public
interest pending nationalisation of such undertaking and in
this view of the matter the High Court was hyper-technical
in recording a finding that even though the financial
condition become wholly unsatisfactory but the Government
failed	to establish the mis-management of the	 undertaking
which	had brought the financial	condition to	such
unsatisfactory	stage and, therefore, by including the three
mills in question in	 the group of	13 there has	been
violation of Article 14. The learned Solicitor General also
seriously commented upon the conclusion of the High Court
and submitted	that the High	 Court	committed error in
assuming mis-management as fraud and such fraud has not been
established by the Union Government .	According to learned
Solicitor General the High Court mis-understood the basis of
the classification itself and taking an over all view of the
financial position of these three Mills the conclusion is
irresistible that these three Mills were rightly clubbed
together with the group of 13 whose financial position	 was
wholly	unsatisfactory and government money was required to
be pumped into it for making the mills viable and	 for
effective running of the Mills so that the large number of
workers	 will not face the misery of closure of the Mills.
The learned Solicitor General also urged that in view of the
prevailing situation in the 13 Mills including the three
with which we	 are concerned, in these appeals,	 the
Parliament thought that only way to put the management on
the wheels was to take over the management of the Mills
which is permissible	in the larger public interest, as
contained in Article 31A (1)(b) of the Constitution,	 and
such Parliamentary wisdom cannot be scrutinised by the Court
in a scale on the basis that certain reports might not have
been placed before the Parliament or on the	ground	that
factually the	Mills were not mis-managed and yet	 had
sustained heavy financial loss and thereby putting	them
alongwith the	group of 13 constitutes an infraction of Article	 14 of the Constitution. According to the learned
Solicitor General the burden being on a person who attacks
the constitutionality on the grounds of discrimination	 the
said burden cannot be held to have been discharged by	 the
Mills and the	 High Court committed serious error in
annulling the	taking over of the management of the three
Mills under the Act on the ground that Government failed to
establish the	relevant material before the	Court.	 The
learned	 Solicitor General also argued that Article 31(c) does apply to the legislation in question, and therefore,
infraction of Article 14 or 19 should not have been	gone
into by the Court. Mr. F.S. Nariman, learned senior counsel appearing
for the Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving Mills Company Ltd.,
emphatically urged that Article 31 A (1)(b) was introduced
by the Constitution IVth Amendment Act of 1955 which enables
to make law for taking over of the	 management of	 any
property by the State for a limited period either in	 the
public	interest or in order to secure proper management of
the same. The law made by the Parliament is the Textiles
Undertakings (Taking over of Management) Act,	 1983.	 The
said law permits take over only when the financial condition
became	unsatisfactory	by reason of mis-management of	 the
affairs	 of the Textile Undertakings.	And, this being	 the
position, if there is no material	 to establish	that
financial losses is on account of mis-management then	 the
taking over of the management of the mill by taking recourse
to the impugned Act must be held to be invalid and the High
Court in fact has held it to be invalid. According to	 Mr.
Nariman	 mere losses will not entitle to take over of	 the
management of mill, inasmuch as, all the mills have suffered
loss and, therefore, there must be some other	 factors on
account	 of which it will be possible for the Government to
take over the management of only 13 mills as included in the
First Schedule	 to the Act. He also further urged that in
view of the language of Article 31A (1)(b) the law	 for
taking	over of the management must be for a limited period
and the expression pending nationalisation in the impugned
Act cannot be construed to be a definite limited period and,
therefore, the Act in question is not referable to Article
31A (1)(b). It is in this connection he cited the decision
of Raman Lal as well as the decision of the Delhi High Court
in ILR	 74 (1) Delhi 311 and also a	decision of Andhra
Pradesh High Court in AIR 1977 A.P. 420. Mr.	Nariman also
argued	that in the impugned Act there is intrinsic evidence
to indicate that the taking over of management was not for a
limited period as it would be apparent from Sections 33, 34,
36 and	 Sections 6, 8 and	11(1),	and essentially it
constitutes acquisition and not take over of management for
a limited period. Mr. Nariman also urged that	 the
legislative declaration of facts are not beyond judicial
scrutiny in the constitutional context of Articles 14 and 16 and the Court can always tear the veil to decide the	real
nature of the statute if the facts and circumstances warrant
such a course.	 A mere declaration in the legislation would
not be	 permissible so as to defeat the fundamental right.
If the legislation in question was merely a pretence and the
object	was discrimination the validity of the statute could
be examined by the Court notwithstanding the	 declaration
made by the legislature and, therefore, the High Court	 was
fully justified in examining the facts and coming to	 the
conclusion that in grouping the three mills alongwith other
13 mills for	the purpose of taking over the management
constitutes an infraction of Article 14 of the Constitution. In support of	 this contention he places reliance on	 the
decision of this Court in Indira Sawhney vs. Union of India
and others (2000) 1 Supreme Court Cases 168.	 Mr.	R.F.
Nariman, learned senior counsel pursued the arguments
advanced by Mr. F.S. Nariman and	contended that	 the
classification	itself	may be valid but while choosing	 the
mills to be included in such classification and clubbing the
Elphinstone Mill within the group of 13 is discriminatory in
as much as a well managed mill is being clubbed with a mis- managed	 mill.	 According to Mr. R.F. Nariman
categorisation	of the Elphistone mill as a mis-managed mill
is contrary to the facts available on record, and as such,
it violates Article 14. Mr.	R.F. Nariman also further
urged that a	machinery available under IDR	Act for an
inquiry	 not having been resorted to it contravenes Article
19(1)(g). According to learned counsel the Parliament chose
to adopt a procedure without any urgency being there	 and
without any machinery to look into the facts on the basis of
which categorisation could be made, the classification is
bad in	 law. Mr. Nariman also contended that in view of Article 300A the law must be reasonable and fair and in view
of the	 judgment of this Court in Dwarkadas Shrinivas of
Bombay	vs,. The Sholapur Spinning & Weaving Co. Ltd.	 and
others	1954 Supreme Court Reports 674, the impugned action
is bad in law.	 Mr. RF Nariman also contended that it	 was
open for the Writ Petitioners to place and establish	that
the legislative facts	 are incorrect	 and in fact	 the
petitioners have discharged that burden by placing materials
on record and the High Court, therefore, was fully justified
in arriving at its decision on the materials produced.	 He
placed	reliance on the decision of this Court in Dr.	K.R.
Lakshmanan vs.	 State of T.N.	and another (1996) 2 Supreme
Court	Cases 226 in	 support of aforesaid	 contention.
According to Mr. Nariman the following facts	 establishes
that the Elphinstone Mill was not a mis-managed mill	 and
Parliament erroneously	 clubbed the same with	 other	mis-
managed	 mills.	 Those facts are :- (a) IDBI viability study
report	(b) Task Force Report (c) Approval of	the Central
Government itself to	appoint	 a Managing Director	 (d)
Sanction of loan by IRCI AND IDBI in September 1993 (e) No
investigation done under Section 15 and 15(a) of IDR	Act,
and (f) No action of any kind under	 the provisions of Companies Act , and on this score the conclusion of the High
Court is unassailable. Mr. Ganesh, learned counsel appearing for the	 New
City Mills contended, that the High Court itself has given a
positive finding on the basis of the materials those	have
been produced that the performance of the mill; was good.
Even the Counter Affidavit of the Union Government before
the High Court does not indicate that the performance of the
New City Mill	 was in any way made out a case of	mis-
management. The analysis of Mr. Bilmoria, the letter of
RBI dated 23rd March, 1983 and the very Task Force Report
clearly demonstrates that the New City Mill was not at all a
mis-managed mill and these materials could be looked into by
the Court when the Mill itself had alleged discrimination
under Article 14. In support of this contention he places
reliance on the decision of this Court in Shashikant Laxman
Kale and Another vs.	Union of India and Another 1990(4)
Supreme	 Court Cases 366 and Mrs. Maneka Gandhi vs. Union
of India and	Another 1978 Supreme Court Cases 248. Mr.
Ganesh also placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri vs. The Union of India and Others 1950 Supreme Court Reports 869 and submitted that in	that
case the Court did go into the materials and came to	 the
conclusion about the mis-management and, therefore, in	 the
case in hand	the High Court was	fully justified in
interfering with the order of taking over qua New City Mill. Ms. Indira Jaisingh, learned senior counsel appearing
for the workers of the Mills supported the stand taken by
the learned Solicitor General and placed before us different
materials on record to establish the mis-management of	 the
mills concerned. In view	of the	 rival	 submissions the following
questions arise for our consideration:- But before examining the aforesaid questions it would
be appropriate	 for us to notice the	 legal	position on
certain	 general principles relating to the challenge of a
statute	 in the anvil	 of Articles 14 and 19 and	 the
parameters of Courts jurisdiction to examine materials for
arriving at the legislative intent behind a statute as well
as the presumption of constitutionality of a statute. A	 statute is construed so as to make it effective and
operative. There is	 always	 a presumption	 that	 the
legislature does not exceed its jurisdiction and the burden
of establishing that	the legislature has	transgressed
constitutional	 mandates such	 as, those relating	 to
fundamental rights is always on the person who challenges
its vires. Unless it becomes clear beyond reasonable doubt
that the legislation in question transgresses	 the limits laid down by the organic law of the constitution it must be
allowed to stand as the true expression of the national will - Shell Company of Australia vs. Federal Commissioner of
Taxation (1931) AC 275 (Privy Council). The aforesaid
principle, however, is subject to one exception that if a
citizen	 is able to establish that the legislation	 has
invaded	 its fundamental rights then the State must justify
that the law	is saved. It is also a cardinal rule of
construction that if one construction being given statute
will become ultra vires the powers	of the	 legislature
whereas	 on another construction which may be open,	 the
statute	 remains effective and operative then the Court will
prefer	the latter, on the ground that the legislature is
presumed not to have intended an excess of jurisdiction. In
Sanjeev	 Coke Manufacturing Company vs.	 M/s. Bharat Coking
Coal Limited (1983) 1 Supreme Court Cases 147,	 the
Constitution Bench speaking through Chinnappa Reddy, J., had
observed, in the context of interpretation of the provisions
of Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 that	 the
Court is not	concerned with the statements made in	 the
Affidavits filed by the parties to justify and sustain	 the
legislation. The deponents of the affidavits filed into the
court may speak for the parties on whose behalf they swear
to the	 statements. They do not speak for the	 Parliament.
No one may speak for the Parliament and Parliament is never
before the court. After Parliament has said what it intends
to say, only the court may say what the Parliament meant to
say. None else. Once a statute leaves Parliament House,
the Court is the only authentic voice which may echo	 the
Parliament. This the Court will do with reference to	 the
language of the statute and other permissible	 aids.	 The
executive Government may place before the	court their
understanding of what Parliament has said or intended to say
or what they think was Parliaments object and all the facts
and circumstances which in	their	view led to	 the
legislation. When they do so, they	 do not speak	 for
Parliament. No Act of Parliament may be struck down because
of the	 understanding or misunderstanding of parliamentary
intention by the executive Government or because their
spokesmen do not bring out	relevant circumstances	 but
indulge in empty and self-defeating affidavits.	 They do not
and they cannot bind Parliament. Validity of legislation is
not to be judged merely by affidavits filed on behalf of the
State, but by all the relevant circumstances which the court
may ultimately	 find and more especially by what may be
gathered from what the legislature has itself said. In the
facts of that	 case the Court had held that	We do	not
entertain the	slightest doubt that the nationalisation of
the coking coal mines and the specified coke oven plants for
the above purpose was towards securing that the ownership
and control of the material resources of the community	 are
so distributed as best to subserve the common good and there
has been no discrimination or infringement of Article 14 of
the Constitution Justice A.N. Sen in his separate judgment
also agreed with the ultimate conclusion of Chinnappa Reddy,
J and	had said that	 there was logical basis for	 the
nationalisation	 of the 4 oven plants of the	petitioners,
leaving out a few and I am not satisfied that there has been
any wrong and arbitrary discrimination of Article 14 of the
Constitution.	While examining the constitutional validity
of the special courts bill in the anvil of Article 14 of the
Constitution,	after an exhaustive	review	of all	 the
decisions bearing on the question, in 1979(1) S.C.C.	380,
it was held as follows:- Therefore, classification need not be constituted by an
exact or scientific exclusion or inclusion of	 persons or
things.	 The courts should not insist on delusive exactness
or apply doctrinaire tests for determining the validity of
classification	in any	 given	 case.	 Classification	 is
justified if it is not palpably arbitrary. (4)	 The
principle underlying the guarantee of Article 14 is not that
the same rules of law should be applicable to all persons
within the Indian territory or that the same remedies should
be made available to them irrespective of differences of
circumstances.	 It only means that all persons similarly
circumstanced shall be treated alike both in privileges
conferred and liabilities imposed. Equal laws would have to
be applied to all in the same situation, and there should be
no discrimination between one person and another if as
regards the subject-matter of the legislation their position
is substantially the same. x x x x x x x x x (6) The	 law
can make and set apart the classes according to the needs
and exigencies of the society and as suggested	 by
experience. It can recognise even degree of evil, but	 the
classification	should	never be arbitrary, artificial or
evasive. (7) The classification must not be arbitrary	 but
must be rational, that is to say, it must not only be based
on some qualities or characteristics which are to be found
in all	 the persons grouped together and not in others	 who
are left out but those qualities or characteristics	must
have a reasonable relation to the object of the legislation.
In order to pass the test, two conditions must be fulfilled,
namely,	 (1) that the classification must be founded on an
intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are
grouped	 together from others and (2) that that	 differentia
must have a rational relation to the object sought to be
achieved by the Act. In the Doypack System Pvt. Ltd.	 vs. Union of India (1988) 2 Supreme Court Cases 299, the Court had observed
that when the constitutionality of a legislation is being
assailed before a Court it is the collective will of	 the
Parliament with which the Court is concerned. No officer of
the department can	speak	for the Parliament.	 The
interpreter of the statute must take note of the well known
historical facts. In conventional language the interpreter
must put himself in the armchair of those who were passing
the Act i.e.	 the Members of the Parliament.	 It is	 the
collective will of the Parliament	with which we	 are
concerned. The aforesaid observation had been made in	 the
context	 of an	 argument sought for by the petitioner	 for
production of	certain documents to ascertain the question
whether the shares vested in the Government or not? In Bearer Bonds case (1981) 4 Supreme Court Cases
675, this Court held that it is a rule of equal importance
that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed
with greater latitude than law touching civil rights,	such
as freedom of speech, religion etc. The Court observed that
:- That is the essence of pragmatic approach which must guide
and inspire the legislature in dealing with complex economic
issues. In Shri	Ram Krishna Dalmia vs.	 Shri Justice	S.R.
Tendolkar and Ors. , 1959, S.C.R., 279, this Court held: In the case of The Superintendent and Remberancer of
Legal Affairs, West Bengal vs.	 Girish Kumar Navalakha	 and
Ors. , 1975(4) S.C.C., 754, this Court held: What has been observed above, while interpreting sub-
section (2) of Section 3 , should be borne in mind also while
interpreting the expression for a limited period used	in Article	 31A(1)(b) and in our view the construction to	 the
aforesaid expression made by	 Delhi	High Court in	 its
Judgment in The Indore Malwa United Mills Ltd.	 & Ors.	 Vs.
Union of India and Ors., I.L.R.(Delhi) 1974(1) 311, as well
as the Bombay High Court in the impugned judgment, cannot be
accepted. The Delhi High Court has no doubt in The Indore
Malwa United Mills case, considered the applicability	 of Article	 31A(1)(b) and	 held that taking over of	 the
management, pending nationalisation cannot be held to be for
a limited period, since there is no question of returning
the property to the old management, but we are unable to
accept	this view of Delhi High Court and we hold that	 the
views expressed therein are not correct in law. Having
regard	to the	 conditions of these mills at the time of
taking	over of the management and having regard to	 the
decision of the Union Cabinet on the basis of data	 and
materials to nationalise the mills falling under category
III and the ultimate policy decision of the Government to
achieve	 the process of nationalisation in two stages, first
by taking over the management of the textile	undertakings
and thereafter, enact suitable legislation to	 nationalise
the same, the	 ultimate legislation for taking over	 the
management of the mills passed by the Parliament, cannot but
be held to be a law, providing for taking over of	 the
management for	 a limited period in public interest and as
such the said	 law comes within the	purview	 of Article
31A(1)(b) of the Constitution.	Once it is held that the law
is one	 attracting Article 31A(1)(b) of the Constitution,
then the validity of the said law cannot be assailed on the
ground	 of violation	of Articles 14 and 19 of	 the
Constitution.	But since elaborate	arguments had	been
advanced, we would also examine the other questions posed by
us. So far as the second question is concerned, the entire
emphasis of	the arguments	 advanced on	 behalf	 of
töööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
ööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö
öööööööööööööööööööööööMills persuaded	 the High Court	 and
the High Court in fact came to the conclusion in paragraph
125 of the impugned judgment that the provisions of the Act
read with its objects and reasons and the preamble go to
show that in the context of things the term mismanagement
has been used in the impugned Act not as indicating mere bad
or incompetent	 or poor management as contended by	 the
learned	 counsel for	the Union of	 India	 but meant
mismanagement having an element of fraud or	 dishonesty.
Thereafter the High Court examined different affidavits and
materials and	came to the conclusion that the question of
management of the mills had no where been discussed or dealt
with either directly or indirectly and that the existence of
bad financial	condition was in fact a general phenomena
during	the said period amongst the Textile Mills in Bombay
and the same by itself anything more could not have been an
indication of bad/inadequate management. In paragraph	 180
of the	 impugned judgment the High	Court came to	 the
conclusion that the Government, therefore, could not have,
for taking over the management of the said Mills, relied on
the said CATS	 for classifying the petitioners Mills	 as
mills whose financial	 condition was	 bad due to	mis-
management. In paragraph 203 of the impugned judgment	 the
learned Judges came to the ultimate conclusion : In view	of our conclusions, as aforesaid, we do	 not
propose	 to examine the contention of the learned Solicitor
General, with regard to the applicability of Article 31C of
the Constitution, which he had raised in course of	 his
arguments. In the premises, these appeals are allowed.	 The
impugned judgment of the Bombay High Court is set aside and
the writ petitions, filed before the High	Court stand
dismissed. During the pendency of these appeals this Court	 had
passed	some interim orders with regard to possession of
certain land and other assets as well as with regard to cars
and telephone connections. In view of our decision setting
aside the impugned judgment of Bombay High Court and in view
of Section 3(2) of the Act all interim orders would stand
vacated. But	the Elphinstone Spinning & Weaving Mills in
its Writ Petition No.	2401 of 1983 having made a specific
case that notwithstanding the Act being valid and	 the
management of the mills can be taken over and its properties
and assets vest with the Central Government under Section
3(2) of the Act, but there are certain other assets which
cannot	be held to form a part of the assets of	 Elphinstone
Spinning and Weaving Mill and, therefore, cannot be taken
over, the High Court has not considered this question as the
Act itself was struck down but it would be meet and proper
for the High Court now to consider the same, bearing in mind
the law laid	down by this Court in Sitaram	Mills case
interpreting the provisions of Section 3(2) of the Act on
the materials to be produced by the parties. Be it stated
that until a decision is given by the High Court on	this
score,	by virtue of operation of law all the assets would
stand vested and such vesting would be subject to a final
decision of the High	 Court in respect of any of these
so-called assets which the petitioner establishes not to be
an asset of Elphinstone Mill	 notwithstanding the wider
meaning given to Section 3(2) in Sitaram Mills case. ...............................................J.
(G.B. PATTANAIK)