% 12.02.2024
 CRL.M.A. 4358/2024 (for exemption) 1. Exemptions allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition is filed under Section 482 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 seeking quashing of FIR No.
 339/2020 dated 18.08.2020 registered at Police Station Dwarka
 for offences under Sections 354A / 354D / 506 / 509 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ), and the consequential proceedings /
 investigation arising out of the said FIR. 4. The FIR was registered on a complaint filed by
 Respondent No. 2/complainant in the present petition alleging
 that the petitioner outraged her modesty and also committed act
 of sexual harassment. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:38 5. The present petition has been filed on the ground that the
 parties have amicably settled all their disputes by way of a
 Memorandum of Understanding dated 17.11.2023 with the
 intervention of respectable members of the society, common
 friends, and well-wishers on their own free will and without any
 coercion or pressure, undue influence. The parties have agreed
 that they will approach and appear before this Court seeking
 quashing of FIR 339/2020. 6. The petitioner is present in person and Respondent No.2 is
 present through video conferencing, and have been duly
 identified by the Investigating Officer. The petition is also
 supported duly sworn in affidavits of the parties. 7. Respondent No. 2/ complainant, who is present through
 video conferencing, states that the complaint was made due to
 misunderstanding and she does not wish to pursue the present
 proceedings arising out of the present FIR. 8. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
 submits that chargesheet has already been filed in the present
 case. 9. Offence under Sections 354A and 354D IPC are non-
 compoundable whereas offence under Section 506 and 509 IPC
 are compoundable. 10. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 482 of the CrPC can compound offences
 which are non-compoundable under the Code on the ground that
 there is a compromise between the accused and the complainant.
 The Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and
 guidelines for High Court while accepting settlement and
 quashing the proceedings. In the case of Narinder Singh & Ors.
 v. State of Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:38
 Supreme Court had observed as under :- While exercising the power the High Court is
 to form an opinion on either of the aforesaid
 two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in
 those prosecutions which involve heinous and
 serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such
 offences are not private in nature and have a
 serious impact on society. Similarly, for the
 offences alleged to have been committed
 under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity
 are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:38
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly
 civil character, particularly those arising out
 of commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among
 themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High
 Court is to examine as to whether the
 possibility of conviction is remote and bleak
 and continuation of criminal cases would put
 the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him
 by not quashing the criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 11. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had observed as under :- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:38
 16.3. In forming an opinion whether a criminal
 proceeding or complaint should be quashed in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482,
 the High Court must evaluate whether the ends
 of justice would justify the exercise of the
 inherent power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High
 Court has a wide ambit and plenitude it has to
 be exercised (i) to secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of the process of any
 court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on
 the ground that the offender and victim have
 settled the dispute, revolves ultimately on the
 facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the
 dispute has been settled, the High Court must
 have due regard to the nature and gravity of
 the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot
 appropriately be quashed though the victim or
 the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact
 upon society. The decision to continue with
 the trial in such cases is founded on the
 overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences.
 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences,
 there may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to
 quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which
 arise from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:38
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash
 the criminal proceeding if in view of the
 compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would
 cause oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle
 set out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have
 implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The
 High Court would be justified in declining to
 quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to a financial or economic fraud
 or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied) 12. The complainant, on being asked, has specifically stated
 that the complaint was given on a misunderstanding. Keeping in
 view the nature of dispute and that the parties have amicably
 entered into a settlement, this Court feels that no useful purpose
 would be served by keeping the dispute alive and continuance of
 the proceedings would amount to abuse of the process of Court. I
 am of the considered opinion that it is a fit case to exercise
 discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of CrPC. 13. However, keeping in mind the fact that the charge sheet
 has already been filed in the case arising out of FIR No.
 339/2020, and the State machinery has been put to motion, ends
 of justice would be served if the petitioner is put to cost. 14. In view of the above, FIR No. 339/2020 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to payment of cost by the petitioner of ₹10,000/- (Rupees Ten
 Thousand only), to be deposited with the Delhi Police Welfare
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:39
 Fund and ₹10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only), to be
 deposited with the Delhi High Court Legal Services Committee. 15. The present petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 FEBRUARY 12, 2024
 "SS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 22:04:39