This Regular Second Appeal essentially arises out of the

challenge made as against the permission granted by the statutory

authorities concerned for the establishment of a vault type cemetery

in the appellant St.Mary's Orthodox Church, Vettipuram,

Pathanamthitta district. The contesting respondents herein had filed

Original Suit, O.S.No.57/1999 before the Munsiff's Court,

Pathanamthitta, praying to set aside the impugned orders issued by

the statutory authorities concerned in the matter of permission for

construction of a vault type cemetery by the St.Mary's Orthodox

Church authorities concerned (respondents 5 and 6 in the O.S.) and

for consequential injunction. The trial court has decreed the suit in

favour of the plaintiffs. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment and

decree rendered by the Munsiff's Court, Pathanamthitta, on

29.9.2000 in O.S.No.57/1999, the church authorities had filed

Appeal Suit, before the District Court concerned. The lower

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 2 :- Based on Ext.X-1(a) proceedings dated 29.10.1990 of the DMO, the

Municipal Council, by resolution dated 29.12.1990, granted

necessary permission to the church for constructing the vault type

cemetery. Thereafter, the Municipality by Ext.B-2(d)/B-3 order

dated 13.3.1991 issued necessary permit/licence to the church for

construction of the vault type cemetery. After the commencement of

the construction, there were various litigations including Writ

Petitions filed before this Court, which interdicted the construction.

But the District Collector concerned was directed by this Court in the

judgment dated 29.5.1991 in O.P.No.5540/1991 and judgment

dated 18.6.1996 in O.P.No.12456/1991 to examine the grievance of

the objectors against the establishment of the vault type cemetery

and take a decision thereon in accordance with law. The District

Collector, by Ext.B-12 dated 16.7.1996, in exercise of his statutory

powers conferred under Sec. 45(2) of the Kerala Municipalities Act,

1960, ultimately found that there is no illegality or impropriety in

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 4 :- So also, it is further averred that the third plaintiffs' property, he has

constructed a building for taking up residence is the southern

boundary of the scheduled property and his building is within 25

meters of the scheduled property. Though there are only four

plaintiffs, there is an averment in the plaint as if there are five

plaintiffs. The inhabitants of the locality depend upon the well and a

stream, for water purposes. If the cemetery is allowed to function,

there is imminent danger of water pollution in the wells and in the

streams endangering lives of the inhabitants of the locality. The

conditions stipulated for opening the vault type cemetery are not on

the basis of any scientific basis. Even if those conditions imposed

for the construction are strictly adhered to, there is no assurance of

safety. That it is virtually impossible to prevent seepage and

consequent water pollution at the wells and the stream. The 5th and

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 7 :- M/s.Kay Iron Works Pvt. Ltd. reported in AIR 2000 SC 1261, Dinesh

Kumar v. Yusuf Ali reported in 2010 (3) KLT SN 16 (C.No.20) (SC),

etc. has consistently held that there is no prohibition to entertain a

second appeal even on question of fact, provided the court is

satisfied that the findings of the court below were vitiated by non-

consideration of the relevant evidence or by showing erroneous

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 14 :- Similar view has been taken in the case of Kashmir Singh v. Harnam
 Singh & Anr., AIR 2008 SC 1749. 56. Declaration of relief is always discretionary. If the
 discretion is not exercised by the lower court "in the spirit of the statute or
 fairly or honestly or according to the rules of reason and justice", the order
 passed by the lower court can be reversed by the superior court. (See: Mysore State Road Transport Corporation v. Mirja Khasim Ali Beg &

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 15 :- 57. There may be exceptional circumstances where the High
 Court is compelled to interfere, notwithstanding the limitation
 imposed by the wording of Section 100 CPC. It may be necessary to
 do so for the reason that after all the purpose of the establishment of
 courts of justice is to render justice between the parties, though the
 High Court is bound to act with circumspection while exercising such
 jurisdiction. In second appeal the court frames the substantial
 question of law at the time of admission of the appeal and the Court
 is required to answer all the said questions unless the appeal is finally
 decided on one or two of those questions or the court comes to the
 conclusion that the question(s) framed could not be the substantial
 question(s) of law. There is no prohibition in law to frame the
 additional substantial question of law if the need so arises at the time
 of the final hearing of the appeal' 9. While admitting this Second Appeal, this Court as per

order dated 22.1.2010 had formulated the following questions of

law, which read as follows: 10. During the course of hearing of this appeal, in the light

of the submissions made, this Court had, in exercise of the powers

conferred under the proviso to sub section (5) of Sec.100 of the

C.P.C., also framed the following additional questions of law, as

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 16 :- 11. Heard. 12. On consideration of the submissions made on either

side, the aforestated questions are decided as hereunder: It is to be noted that Ext.B-14 renewal of the permit was

granted by the defendant Municipality on 29.8.1998. It is only

thereafter that the four plaintiffs herein and another person had

filed a Writ Petition, as O.P.No.17816/1998 before this Court on

15.9.1998 with the prayers to quash Ext.B-12 herein (proceedings

dated 16.7.1996 of the District Collector) and Ext.B-13 herein (G.O.

dated 4.5.1998 issued by the State Government), and for

interdicting the authorities from allowing the construction of the

vault type cemetery within the radius of 100 meters from their

houses and for declaration that grant of licence for construction of

cemetery within prohibited distance of 50 meters from the

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 17 :- 14. The trial court in paragraphs 12 to 22 of the impugned

judgment dated 29.9.2000 has proceeded on the premise as if the

period of limitation is to be counted from the date of issuance of

the last of the orders, which is sought to be set aside in the suit that

was originally framed, viz., Ext.B-13 Government order dated

4.5.1998. On this basis, the trial court proceeded to determine

whether the provision contained in Sec.544(3) of the Kerala

Municipality Act is applicable in respect of a prayer to set aside an

order issued by the Government and not by the Municipality.

Accordingly, the trial court held that since the last of the orders that

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 20 :- Therefore, the suit is not barred by limitation. In view of this aspect,

it is only to be held that though the reasonings rendered by the

court below in holding that the suit is not barred by limitation are

untenable, the conclusion therein cannot be faulted. Accordingly, it

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 24 :- Sec.544(1) of the Kerala Municipality Act, 1994 reads as follows: Accordingly, it is held that even if the rigour of Sec.544(1) is

to be applied in the facts of this case, the defendant

Municipality is treated to have waived their objection thereto.

In view of this aspect, it is only to be held that the suit

cannot be said to be bad on this count. The question is

accordingly answered. 21. 1(c). Whether the suit to the extent it involves the cause of
 action for public nuisance is barred due to non
 compliance of the provisions contained under Section
 91 of the CPC? As rightly held by the lower appellate court in paragraph 24 of the

impugned judgment dated 20.3.2004 in A.S.No.23/2003, a reading

of the plaint clearly indicates that the grievance voiced by the

plaintiffs are not only in respect of private nuisance but also in

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 30 :- Therefore, going by the mandate of sub-section (1) of Sec.91of the

CPC, the plaintiffs were legally obliged to secure leave of the court

as contemplated in that provision before instituting the suit to the

extent it involves public nuisance or other wrongful act affecting or

likely to affect the public. It is admitted case that the plaintiffs have

not obtained leave of the court as mandated under Sec.91 of the

CPC. It is also to be noted that sub section (2) of Sec.91 expressly

declares that the said provision of Sec.91 does not limit or

otherwise affect any right of suit, which may exist independently of

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 32 :- The trial court in the impugned judgment dated 29.9.2000 has held

that the principles of res judicata and constructive res judicata

cannot be a bar in the institution of the present suit and has held

fully in favour of the plaintiffs in that issue. However, the lower

appellate court has clearly held that the principles of res judicata

and constructive res judicata will be a bar in the institution of the

suit primarily based on Exts.B-7 and B-8 judgment and decree in

O.S.No.282/1991. On a perusal of the conclusive finding of the

lower appellate court in paragraphs 14 to 19 of the judgment dated

20.3.2004 and on a consideration of the rival submissions made in

that behalf, this Court is in full agreement with the considered views

rendered by the lower appellate court that the bar of res judicata

will apply in the facts and circumstances of this case. Though there

is nothing in the judgment and decree in O.S.No.282/1991 (as per

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 34 :- Court granted permission for that purpose and as per orders of court
 public advertisement was made as provided In O.1, R.8.O.1,R.8(3)
 provides that any person on whose behalf, or for whose benefit, a suit
 is instituted, or defended, may apply to the court to be made a party to
 such suit. Ii is true that no interested person got himself impleaded as
 a defendant pursuant to the publication. But there is no case that the
 defendants were not defending the suit in a representative capacity.
 Sufficient safeguards are made in O.1, R.8(4) and (5) to safeguard the
 interest of such persons who do not join as parties in response to the
 publication. Sub-rule (6) of O.1, R.8 says that decree passed in such a
 suit shall be binding on all persons on whose behalf, or for whose
 benefit, the suit is instituted or defended, as the case may be. To such
 a suit explanation 6 to S.11 of the Civil P.C. will apply. The explanation
 says that where persons litigate bona fide in respect of a public right
 claimed in common for themselves and others, all persons interested
 in such right shall be deemed to claim under the persons so litigating.
 A decision in a representative suit after notice or publication under
 O.1,R.8 as in any other case, operates as re judicata against all the
 interested persons when it is given on the merits in so far as the rights
 litigated are common to the persons suing or being sued and those
 whom they represent. This result is statutory even if "the judgment
 does not specify in so many words that it is rendered against the
 defendants in a representative capacity unless there are indications in
 the judgment to show that the decision is personal against the
 defendantsOtherwiseand not against anybody else having common
 alone
 interest. the very object and purpose of the formalities
 observed under O.1, R.8 and the very purpose of the litigation itself will
 be defeated. Here nobody has any case that the suit was not
 prosecuted against the defendants or not defended by them in a
 representative capacity or that in deciding the suit the court only
 considered the rights of the defendants and not of other persons whom
 they represented. In such a situation even if the judgment does not
 specify in the decretal portion that the suit is decreed against the
 defendants in their representative capacity, the statutory effect in view
 of O.1, R.8(6) is that it is binding on all persons for whose benefit the
 suit was defended. 8. In this case the court which passed the decree has
 specified in so many words in the impugned order that the decree was
 passed in a representative capacity against the defendants and that
 happened in the decree is only an accidental omission. Plaintiffs also
 take the same stand. No person whose interest was represented by the
 defendants came forward to contend that the decree is not binding on
 them. The objection is only by the defendants who are at any rate
 bound by the judgment and decree. The mlal fide object is evident. It

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 38 :- 9. There cannot be any dispute regarding the fact that the
 court has not only the right but also the duty to amend the decree so as
 to bring it in conformity with the judgment. That is necessary in the
 interest of doing justice to the parties. It may also be true that if the
 decree is in conformity with the judgment it cannot be amended even in
 cases of clerical or arithmetical mistakes or omissions or errors/arising
 therein from any accidental slip or omission in the judgment unless the
 judgment is also corrected. At the same time in spite of the errors or
 omissions if the factual and statutory effect of the judgment is
 otherwise that effect must reflect in the decree. So far as this case is
 concerned there was no error or mistake in the judgment. The
 omission in the decretal portion of the judgment to specify that it is
 against the defendants in their representative capacity was against the
 scope of the suit and the discussions and conclusions in the body of
 the judgment. In spite of such an omission, in the absence of anything
 to the contrary in the judgment, by the operation of O.1, R.8(6) the
 judgment was against all persons on whose behalf the suit was
 defended. The decree ought to have been drafted accordingly. It is
 only an accidental slip or omission arising from a clerical mistake which
 the court was entitled to correct under S.152 of the Civil P.C. 10. The decision in Master Construction Co.(P) Ltd. v. State of
 Orissa , AIR 1966 SC 1047 was relied on by the counsel in this respect.
 That decision said: Even though that judgment was rendered on different provisions the
 principles could be accepted for out purpose also. Even then it will not
 in any way advance the contention of the revision petitioners. As held

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 39 :- 11. Then the attempt was to contend that it was illegal or at
 least improper on the part of the Trial Court to have amended the
 decree when an appeal is pending against the same. There was no
 stay. Even taking for granted that there was stay against execution of
 the decree the pendency of an appeal will not in any way disentitle the
 Trial Court in amending the decree to make it in conformity with the
 judgment. It is true that the appellate Court can also amend the lower
 court's decree. Till that is done or till the Trial Court decree is
 superseded by or merged in the appellate decree the right of the Trial
 Court in amending the decree is not fettered. The position may be
 different when the appeal si disposed of and the decree of the Trial
 Court was superseded by or merged in the appellate decree. Such a
 contingency has not arisen here.'

On the basis of the legal principles laid down by this Court in

Soman's case (supra) and on the basis of the aforestated aspects,

the lower appellate court held that the trial court was not justified in

holding in the impugned judgment that there was no evidence to

show that O.S.No.282/1991 was laid in a representative capacity

and accordingly, the lower appellate court held that Exts.B-7 & B-8

judgment and decree in O.S.No.282/1991 rendered by the Munsiff

Court, Pathanamthitta will bind all persons similarly situated, more

so, in view of the provisions contained in Explanation VI under Sec.11 of the CPC. 23. In order to ascertain the issues that have been

conclusively decided in Ext.B-7/B-8 O.S.No.282/1991 it would be

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 40 :- Therefore, the validity of the permit/licence granted by the

municipal authorities was a matter directly and substantially in issue

in the the said suit. In fact, from a perusal of the appendix to Ext.B-

7 judgment, it is seen that Ext.A5 produced therein is the

proceedings No.B417917/96 dated 16.7.1996 of the District

Collector, Pathanamthitta which is the impugned Ext.B-12

proceedings herein. The lower appellate court was fully justified in

holding that there is definite finding in Ext.B-7 judgment in O.S.No.

282/1991 that the impugned licence and permission granted to the

plaintiff therein, church authorities (appellants herein) are valid and

that as far as the impugned plan and licence involved in O.S.No.

282/1991 are concerned, there is a specific finding that they have

been properly granted and that they are valid. Accordingly, as

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 41 :- John reported in 2006 (2) KLT 221, this Court while construing the

scope and ambit of Explanation VI of Sec.11 CPC, had held that it is

necessary that the interest of the person concerned has really be

represented by the other persons who were made parties to the suit

and that the former's interest has been looked after in a bonafide

manner by the other party/parties concerned. Explanation VI to Sec.11 CPC provides that where persons litigate bonafide in respect

of a public right or of a private right claimed in common for

themselves and others, all persons interested in such right shall, for

the purposes of Sec.11 CPC, be deemed to claim under the persons

so litigating. Explanation VI stipulates that the expression "between

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 44 :- The Supreme Court in RSS Sangh 's case relied on the decision in
 Surayya Begum (Mst.) v. Mohd. Usman ((1991) 3 SCC 114), wherein it
 was held: 13. In Amrit Sagar Gupta and others v. Sudesh Behari Lal & Ors. (AIR
 1970 SC 5), the Supreme Court held: 14. To apply Explanation VI to S.11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, as
 held in RSS Sangh 's case, it is necessary that the interest of the person
 concerned has really been represented by the other persons who were
 made parties to the suit and that the former's interest has been looked
 after in a bona fide manner by the other. If there is any conflict of
 interest between the persons who litigate and the persons on whose
 behalf they litigate or if there is fraud or collusion or if there is any
 malafide neglect to defend the case, the person who litigated on behalf
 of the other cannot be considered as a person who litigated a claim in
 common for himself and another. There is no case for the judgment
 debtors in C.R.P.No.57 of 1994 that they were not puttingforward the
 rights of the Church. On the other hand, the stand taken by the
 judgment debtors would clearly indicate that they even now claim the
 property in question to be the property of the Church. There is no case
 for the second petitioner in C.R.P.No.57 of 1994, namely, the C.S.I.
 Church represented by Rev.Fr.Felix Mathew, that there was any
 collusion between the plaintiff in the suit and the Vicar and Bishop of
 the C.S.I. Church, who were shown as defendants 3 and 4 in the suit.
 There is also no case for the contesting respondents in the execution
 petition that the right, title and interest put forward by the defendants
 in the suit are different from those being put forward by the Church.
 There is no conflict of interests between the defendants in the suit and
 the Church. There is also no case that the defendants in the suit were
 negligent in prosecuting the suit. It is to be noted that an Appeal and
 Second Appeal were filed by the defendants challenging the judgment
 and decree of the trial court, which would clearly indicate that there
 was no neglect on the part of the defendants in the litigation. The
 irresistible conclusion is that Explanation VI to S.11 is attracted. If so,
 the judgment debtors or any other person representing the Church are
 not entitled to contend that the decree is inexecutable.'

In the said case, the Churches of India (CSI) was not as such made

as a party to the suit. But, only the Vicar and Bishop were made as

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 47 :- The initial application for permit to establish an open type burial

ground in the property was submitted by the defendant Church

authorities before the Municipality on 29.4.1987. It was later, that

pursuant to the recommendation of the District Medical Officer that

the Municipality as per Ext.B-19 letter dated 14.5.1990 had

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 52 :- Provided that sub rule (5) of rule 15 shall apply for all
 buildings exceeding 10 m. in height. Provided further that accessory uses may be permitted within
 the open spaces specified above subject to the provision of sub rule
 (7) of rule 15 which would operate independently for all accessory
 uses of buildings and provided further sub rule (2) of rule 17 would
 operate for all buildings taken collectively."

Therefore, from a perusal of the aforestated provisions in Sec.321 of the Act and the provisions contained in Rule 36 of the Kerala

Buildings Rules, it is amply clear that there is no express provision

therein which stipulates any prohibitory distance in the matter of

establishment of any type of burial ground or cemetery in a

Municipality. There is no explicit provision contained either in Sec.321 or in Rule 36(10) for establishment of a cemetery. However,

it is to be noted that the provisions contained in the rules for

establishment of crematoria, burning and burial grounds are in sub

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 55 :- Therefore, a statutory discretion is conferred on the municipal

authority to prohibit certain burning and burial grounds located in

certain areas, which in the opinion of the Municipal authorities, is

dangerous or likely to be dangerous to the health and wellbeing of

the persons living in the neighbourhood or to be offensive to such

persons. Though the discretion is cast in wide terms, there has to

be reasonableness and certainty in the exercise of such statutory

discretion as otherwise subjective consideration may vary for

municipalities and the perspectives may also differ from time to

time. This may not be conducive to public interest, which may

demand that there should be certainty in such stipulations

regarding prohibitory distance. 30. In exercise of the powers conferred under the provisions

of the Kerala Panchayats Act, 1960 , the Government has framed the

Kerala Panchayats (Burning and Burial Grounds) Rules, 1967, which

has come into force on 12nd September, 1967 and the said Rules

were in force at the relevant time as far as this case is concerned.

Rule 5 of the said Panchayats Rules provides as follows: Provided that in the case of concrete vaults the distance shall
 be twenty five meters from any human habitation.

 crucial Explanation.- the date of sanction for taking into account the
 The date of application for licence shall be the
 date and not
 existence of human habitation within the limit."

It appears that the first proviso to Rule 5 was incorporated by way of

an amendment to the Rule as per SRO No.706/1978 in Gazette of

18.7.1978. The first proviso stipulates that in the case of

concrete vaults, the distance shall be twenty five metres from any

human habitation, whereas the operative portion of Rule 5

stipulates that the said prohibitory distance in the case of all other

burning or burial grounds shall be 50 meters from any human

habitation. 31. Thus, unlike the Kerala Municipalities Act , the Kerala

Panchayats (Burial and Burning Grounds) Rules, framed under the Kerala Panchayats Act, 1960 , explicitly makes a differentiation

between the vault type cemetery and other types of burial grounds

and the prohibitory distance in the case of concrete type vault is 25

meters from any human habitation, whereas in the case of other

types of burning and burial grounds, it shall be 50 meters. True that

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 59 :- Therein, incidentally in paragraph 50, this Court refers to the

provisions contained in Rule 5(1) of the Kerala Panchayat Burning

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 60 :- 32. The Full Bench of this Court in the case Surendran v.

District Collector reported in 1999 (3) KLT 22 (F.B), para 9, has,

inter alia, clearly held therein that for the purpose of taking into

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 63 :- 33. Therefore, it is not proper to take resort to only one

portion of the rule and exclude the consideration of the crucial

aspect regarding the explanation thereto, while considering the

exercise of discretion in the case of the municipal authorities. In the

light of the categoric legal position settled by the decisions of the

Full Bench and the Division Bench of this Court, referred to above, it

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 65 :- 34. The other two issues will be considered together as
hereunder: &

 alleged(3) Whether the courts below are justified in considering the
 procedural lapses of the 7th respondent District Collector,
 Pathanamthitta and the 8th respondent Municipality in granting licence
 after Ext.P-13 order of the government. 35. Before going into detailed discussion of these matters, it is to

be stated at the outset that there are no factual averments in the plaint in

the instant case that the Municipality had not referred the matter for

the consideration of the District Collector, before the issuance of

the impugned Ext.B-4 permit dated 27.3.1991. So also it is to be

crucially noted that there is no factual averment in the plaint that

the medical officer concerned had not conducted any site inspection

before recommending for the grant of the application, etc. The law

in the aspect of lack of pleadings is too elementary. The

Apex Court while considering such an issue in the case Kalyan

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 67 :- 36. Therefore, while challenging the decision making

process of a public authority, as in the instant case, as to its legality,

propriety or reasonableness, it is not sufficient that the averments

should be in generalised terms as if the entire decision making

process is vitiated by illegality or impropriety, etc. or that none of

the legal formalities or official formalities has been complied with

by the decision maker, etc. But the factual foundation for such

challenge should be cogently and precisely pleaded in the plaint so

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 69 :- 37. Apart from this crucial aspect of the matter, this Court

would also endeavour to examine the merits of those aspects. The

impugned application for permission to construct a vault type

cemetery was made by the defendant church authorities before the

municipal authority on 13.6.1990, as discernible from Ext.B-2 series

files. Ext.B-2 files clearly reveal that as per column No.6 of part 3 of

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 71 :- 38. The next issue is as to whether the defendant

Municipality had committed any procedural impropriety in not

referring the matter to the District Collector before the impugned

decision of the Municipality in granting the permit dated 27.3.1991.

In other words, the issue is as to whether statutory rules mandate

that the application should necessarily have been referred by the

municipal authority to the District Collector for his opinion. There is

no provision anywhere in the aforestated provision contained in Sec.321 of the Act that the prior approval of the District Collector

should necessarily be obtained before the grant of impugned permit

or that the opinion of the District Collector should have been

obtained by the municipal authority for its consideration, before

such grant, etc. The courts below have proceeded on the premise as

if Rule 36(10) of the Kerala Building Rules framed under the Municipality Act , mandates that the approval of the District Collector

is required before the grant of any permit in any individual case.

Rule 36(10) of the Rules reads as follows: RSA No. 1209/04 - : 77 :- "Rule 36(10) Crematoria, burning and burial grounds.- The
 authority with approval of Collector of District shall regulate the
 location and area limits of Crematoria, Burning and Burial Grounds
 including cemetery. Further, the Authority shall prohibit certain
 burning or burial grounds located in certain areas which in their
 opinion is dangerous or likely to be dangerous to the health and well
 being of the persons living in the neighbourhood or to be offensive
 to such persons. Provided that an appeal shall lie against the Collector's
 decision to the Government who may issue such orders as is deemed
 fit." The above Rule only stipulates that the authority (viz., the Municipal

authority concerned) mentioned in Sec.321 of the Act, which is the

Municipal Council, with the approval of the District Collector shall

regulate the location and area limits of crematoria, burning and

burial grounds including cemetery, etc. It is also relevant to note

that Sec.45(2) of the Act empowers the District Collector, where any

immediate action is necessary as contemplated therein, to suspend

the resolution, order, licence, permission, act issued by the

Municipality and report to the Government, etc. Therefore, if any

permit or licence as contemplated under Sec. 321(2) of the Act is

issued in any individual case, the Collector is having jurisdiction to

suspend the resolution taken Municipal Council in that regard or

even suspend the operation of the licence, permission, etc. granted

in that regard for the establishment of a burial ground in any

individual case. Since that is the indisputable legal position, it

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 78 :- 39. The next issue is as to whether the criterion of minimum

distance of 25 meters from the human habitation has been violated

in the instant case. As already held hereinabove, the crucial date for

determining this aspect of the matter is as to whether such human

habitations were in existence as on the date of the application for

seeking permission for establishment of the cemetery in question.

In the instant case the said crucial date is 27.3.1990. The impugned

resolution in favour of the defendant church is taken on

29.12.1990. Ext.B-3 order is on 13.3.1991 and consequential

permit/licence is issued as per Ext.B-4 dated 27.3.1991. Ext.B-12

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 81 :- The house of the 3rd plaintiff Kuriakose is said to be at the distance

of 6 meters from the eastern boundary of the plaint schedule

property. Thus it can be seen that what is contemplated by way

minimum distance as per the Rules is the distance from the human

inhabitation concerned upto the vault type cemetery and not merely

upto the boundary of the property concerned. Therefore, after

adding the additional ten meters, which is the distance between the

vault to each of its boundary points, it can be seen that except the

house of the 3rd plaintiff, Kuriakose and that of one Kalyani, all other

residential houses are situated much beyond the minimum distance

of 25 meters. It is categorically stated in Ext.B-12 report of the

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 84 :- Thereupon, the Tahsildar and the District Medical Officer conducted

an inspection and submitted their reports dated 9.7.1996 and the

District Collector also made an inspection on 12.7.1996 as referred

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 89 :- However, the Government directed in Ext.B-13 that the plan

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 90 :- K.P.S.C. and Ors. reported in 1993 (1) KLJ 632 (para 5 & 6) and

Grindlays Bank Ltd., v. Income-Tax Officer, Calcutta and Ors.

reported in AIR 1980 SC 656 (para 6). 44. On excluding the period of stay from the normal validity

period of 3 years from the permit, it can be seen that the said

permit should have been revalidated as per Rule 9(2) of the Kerala

Building Rules, 1984. The Kerala Municipalities Act, 1994 came into

force on 30.5.1994. RSA No. 1209/04 - : 92 :- 45. Sec.235 of the Kerala Municipalities Act, 1960 which

deals with the lapse of permission reads as follows: Sec.394 of the Kerala Municipalities Act, 1994 dealing with lapse of

permission provides as follows: A comparison of the provisions contained in the old Act and New

Act makes it clear that though Sec.235 pertaining to the old

provision envisages that submission of a fresh application is

necessary before the work is continued and that the legislature has

consciously omitted that requirement in Sec.394 of the new Act.

Therefore, by the operation of Sec.394 of the new Act dealing with

lapse of permission where construction or reconstruction of a

building is not completed within the period specified in the

permission, such permission shall lapse unless an application for

extension of time is made before the expiry of the period specified.

There is no necessity to make a fresh application as per the new

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 93 :- Rule 9(2) of the Kerala Building Rules, 1984 provides as follows: Therefore, what was required under Sec.394 of the Kerala

Municipalities Act, 1994 r/w Rule 9(2) of the Kerala Building Rules,

1984 is that an application for extension of time alone need be

submitted and the permit could be revalidated on application

subject to rules then in force. It is evident that the requisite

application for revalidation of the permit was made by the

appellants even after the issuance of Ext.B-12 proceedings dated

16.7.1996 of the District Collector. The application submitted by

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 94 :- Consequently, it is only to be held that the defendant-Municipality

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 95 :- Therefore, these proceedings of the various authorities concerned

will clearly prove that the impugned construction cannot be faulted. 49. So the view taken by the trial court in finding fault with

the District Collector is untenable and wrong, in view of the

aforestated reasons. Therefore, on a consideration of the totality of

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 103 :- 50. It is also to be noted that the impugned decree granted

by the trial court is to the effect that defendants 1 to 4 are

restrained by a prohibitory injunction from granting any licence to

the 5th defendant or any one else to establish cemetery in the plaint

schedule property and also restraining the defendants 5 & 6 from

proceeding with the construction of the cemetery in the plaint

schedule property and establish the cemetery, etc. Admittedly,

none of the plaintiffs have any claim over the plaint schedule

property as it is property fully owned and possessed by the

defendant Church authorities. Even if the plaintiffs had made out a

case at best the trial court could have only granted a decree to the

effect that the statutory authorities are injuncted from granting any

licence in violation of the Act and Rules and consequently injuncting

the defendant Church authorities from making any construction of

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 104 :- 51. The further view rendered by the lower appellate court

that the defendant Church should be blamed for not having cited

the private engineer, who supervised the construction, as a witness

in this case is not tenable. Both the Advocate Commissioners were

appointed at the instance of the plaintiffs. The trial court had

ordered that the second Advocate Commissioner should be assisted

by an expert engineer, who happened to be a retired Executive

Engineer from the State Government, who was later reemployed in

the ICDP Project of the Government of India. The said Executive

Engineer was not cited as a witness by the plaintiffs. Therefore, the

defendant Church authorities cited the said Executive Engineer as

DW4 and he had adduced detailed evidence regarding technical and

scientific aspects of the matter. The Engineer who supervised the

construction in question was a private Engineer, who was engaged

at the behest of the Church and therefore in any view of the matter

he could certainly be branded as a interested witness. Therefore,

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 105 :- 52. The trial court in paragraph 5 of the impugned judgment

has held that the defendant Church authorities are to be blamed for

using Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) construction instead of

Plain Cement Concrete (PCC) as permitted by the Municipal

authorities and that therefore the construction done by the

defendant Church authorities is not in accordance with the approved

plan. It is a matter which is well known to even layman that the

method of Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) construction is much

more safer, durable and stronger compared to Plain Cement

Concrete (PCC) type construction. Therefore, the action of the

defendants in taking recourse to RCC type construction would also

strengthen the construction. It is also to be noted that the court

below have totally failed to take into consideration the crucial piece

of evidence as discernible from Ext.B-2 series files on the reverse of

page 5 thereon in paragraph No.2 wherein the Municipal Engineer/

Assistant Engineer of the Municipality has ordered on 21.10.1998

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 107 :- 53. A Division Bench (consisting of M.S.Menon, C.J., &

M.Madhavan Nair, J.) in the case Rev.Fr..Antony v. Health Inspector

& Ors. reported in 1964 KLT 15, has held that burial of the dead by

itself does not constitute a nuisance and burials to constitute a

nuisance must come within the definition of the expression as given

in Sec.2(27) and Sec.39 of the Travancore-Cochin Public Health Act,

1955. It would be relevant to note the observations in paragraphs

13 to 15 thereof, which read as follows: 14. S. 2 (27) says: house, or gas-work or in any manufacturing or trade process whatsoever;

 (7) any chimney sending forth smoke in such quantities as to be a nuisance;
 and

 (8) any noise, vibration, dust, clinders, irritating smell or offensive odour
 produced by a factory, workshop or workplace which is a nuisance to the
 neighbourhood". 15. Can a cemetery come under the first item in S. 39 , "any
 premises in such a state as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance"? S. 39 corresponds to S. 91 of the (English) Public Health Act, 1875.
 Item (1) of that section was: "any premises in such a state as to be a
 nuisance or injurious to health." These words came up for
 consideration in The Queen v. Parlby (1889-22 Q.B.D. 520). The
 Court said: 54. It is by now well established that mere apprehension of

future mischief from something which in itself is lawful and capable

of being done without creating a nuisance is no ground for an

injunction. So in a case like this, the plaintiffs will have to establish

that if no actual damage or injury is proved, then there should

necessarily be proof of imminent danger, and there must also be

proof that the apprehended danger will, if it comes, be very

substantial. Therefore, it is the burden of the plaintiffs to cogently

and precisely plead as well as prove by convincing and sufficient

evidence that there is imminent danger by the proposed functioning

of the vault type cemetery and that such apprehended danger is not

only imminent but also substantial. On a consideration of the

evidence and materials on record in this case, this Court is of the

considered opinion that the plaintiffs have not let in any sufficient

evidence including scientific or expert evidence to prove this crucial

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 110 :- 55. The view rendered by the lower appellate court that the

appellants herein/defendants concerned have not let in any

scientific evidence in the matter is also clearly wrong. As stated

above the Executive Engineer concerned, who was appointed as

expert to assist the second Advocate Commissioner was cited as

DW4 by the defendant Church authorities. DW4 was formerly an

Executive Engineer of the Public Works Department of Government

of Kerala and he was later reemployed in the ICDP Project of the

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 111 :- I have not noticed any defect in the construction of the concrete vault
 during my inspection. Is there any possibility of air pollution or water
 pollution from the concrete vault? Q. There will not be any pollution
 after construction as the vault is airtight and watertight."

Thus it can be seen that DW4 has given an expert opinion on the

basis of scientific details that he could not notice any defect in the

construction of the concrete vault during his inspection and that

there will not be any pollution after construction as the vault is

airtight and watertight. He has further deposed that there is a

paddy field on the north and that he was directed to ascertain as to

whether there is any water in the tank of the concrete vault and as

to whether based on the difference in the water level in the paddy

field and the wells, whether there is any difference in the water level

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 112 :- 56. The view taken by the trial court, more particularly, in

para 51 of its judgment, brushing aside the crucial expert evidence

let in by DW-4, is based on irrelevant considerations. The trial court

takes note of the fact that DW-4 (former PWD Executive Engineer)

has deposed that the pressure head of the water will be 2.4 meters

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 116 :- 57 But both the courts below have erroneously proceeded as

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 118 :- 58. In this context, the observations of this Court

(M.P.Menon, J.) in the case Komalavally Amma v. President, Kerala

Bhrahmana Sabha, reported in 1987 (2) KLT SN.50 (C.No.72), that

provisions of Secs.320, 321 & 323 of the Kerala Municipalities Act,

1960, are designed to serve some purpose and not to create

impossible situations for a section of the people living within its

limits. 59. It is also relevant in this context to note the decision of

this Court in Vareed Porinchukutty v. State of Kerala & Ors. reported in 1971 KLT 204, in which it has been held that the right to

bury dead bodies with certain rites and ceremonies is an integral

part of the Christian faith and that in burying dead bodies in

consecrated places, they only exercise their fundamental right

regarding practice of religion. Paragraph 22 of the said decision reads as follows: 60. In the light of the aforestated aspects, the impugned

judgments and decrees of both the courts below are set aside.

Consequently, the Appeal Suit, A.S.No.23/2003 on the file of the

District Court, Kottayam, stands allowed. Accordingly, it is ordered

that the impugned judgment and decree dated 29.9.2000 of the

Munsiff's Court, Pathanamthitta, in O.S.No.57/1999 stands set

aside. Resultantly, the Original Suit, O.S.No.57/1999 on the file of

the Munsiff's Court, Pathanamthitta, stands dismissed. 61. Before parting with this case, this Court would observe

that notwithstanding the dismissal of the suit, after the

commencement of the operation of the vault type cemetery in the

plaint scheduled property, if any of the aggrieved parties can

establish that there actually occurs pollution or such other

nuisances, it will certainly be open to them to ventilate their

grievances by approaching the competent civil court for appropriate

reliefs in such matters relating to private nuisance, public nuisance

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 121 :- 62. Consequently, it is also clarified that the appellants

herein will be at liberty to proceed with the construction, after

getting necessary formal revalidation of Ext.B-14 permit from the

8th respondent Pathanamthitta Municipality. The fact that ever since

11.3.1999, the date of interim injunction, upto now, the appellants

could not proceed with the construction in view of the injunction

granted by the court below, has to be duly taken note of by the 8th

respondent Pathanamthitta Municipality, while considering the

revalidation of the permit. Therefore, it is consequentially ordered

that the Secretary of the Pathanamthitta Municipality will issue

necessary extension or renewal of Ext.B-14 permit in terms of Rule

15A(9) of the Kerala Municipality Building Rules, 1999, within two

RSA No. 1209/04 - : 122 :- Sd/- Registrar (Judicial)

 ///True copy///

 P.S. To Judge.