SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What's the process to file a consumer complaint and any tips/tricks to get things done quick and easy?
DATE: 2023-02-04
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/10tbxtd/whats_the_process_to_file_a_consumer_complaint/

--- POST TEXT ---

Well, I never thought I'd be foolish enough to ever need to go to the consumer court but I guess this happens to the best of us. So in Jan' 22, I bought a Niva Bupa(formerly Max Bupa) health insurance policy from policy bazaar and I must say, seamless experience untill you buy the policy. 
But then in October of 2022, I got dengue and had a fever of 103.2° and was urgently admitted to a hospital around midnight. I was there for 2 days and during those 2 days my cashless claim was rejected 3 times based on "T&amp;C". No help from policy bazaar. They had no support whatsoever. In the end I had to fork up the entire bill and after a few days I submit a claim for reimbursement to Niva Bupa.
Now in Dec they send a person to my house and the hospital for inspection/verification which is alright but he asks to see my google location history and office absentee records etc which I thought was just insane and invasion of privacy. Anyways. I do all that. Fast forward to Jan, they send me an email saying I am missing documents. They found a line where it says I had lower respiratory track infection and they asked for an x-ray to verify this claim. Well obviously I submitted all the documents there were. If this was a serious risk my doctor would take an x-ray but my doctor said it's common and mine wasn't serious so he decided not to do an x-ray. So I submit a justification letter from my doctor on why he didn't do an x-ray. Anyways. Now they have rejected my claim based on that saying my documents have "discrepancies". For fuck's sake. 

So now I have to file a consumer complaint and I wanted to know if anyone has any idea on what the process is?

P.S - Also wanted to warn people to not buy a policy from policy bazaar or niva bupa. Both of them are frauds and will fucking call you even in hell to renew/buy a policy but are nowhere to be found when you actually need them! I have really shortened this story a lot but last month I have been miserable, spent weeks trying to contact niva bupa, hours on hold. All representatives just repeating the same nonsense from a script in front of them like robots. It's real hell. All while they constantly call me everyday 4-6 times a day to renew my policy. I hope they go out of business for fraud and this happens to no one again!