SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Population control should be our topmost priority
DATE: 2024-09-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1faxnl7/population_control_should_be_our_topmost_priority/

--- POST TEXT ---

India's population is going to cross 170Cr by the end of 2060. Yes, for me it is a big thing considering several factors that decide the current scenario in India.

Current scenario:

1. Heavy indirect taxes and irrelevant GST for working middle class as opposed to low quality of services in return. For ex: Cost of living, health care facilities (Govt. Hospitals), commute (roads &amp; railways), privacy &amp; security (aginst theft, online scams)

2. Not stable employment opportunities for the youth (21-30). Low quality education in most of the govt. operated primary, secondary, and higher secondary schools/colleges (not including Engg. Or Medical as they are good). Youth either chasing a govt. post or indulging in heavy substance abuse. Frustration is increasing among young individuals due to lack of a stable employment, addictions, being single, not able to find bride for marraige due to not being "a govt. employee" according to society, constant societal pressure of getting a govt. job etc.

3. No basic civic sense among citizens. Spitting at train platforms, footpaths, buses, is common. Lack of a strong foundational life education since childhood and separating children in girls only and boys only schools since a young age has led to horrific rape cases which doesn't seem to stop any time soon. Society being as dumb as ever and forcing sanskaar and ghar ki ijjat propaganda on girls for choosing their partner according to them. Honour killings, forced marraiges are common news.

Dos:

1. Let individuals take their own decisions related to marraiges, carrear selection etc. Govt. should pass a bill stating "parents/guardians of a young adult should not be able to force any decision on him/her related to marraige or any other important aspect of their life". Whether to marry or not marry is one's personal choice.

2. Having kids: my personal opinion is that having no kids is better as its already over for the current generation to have a decent living in India.