We missed this earlier: Bombay High Court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking guidelines to address ticket scalping and resale of tickets online on January 10. The court noted that High Courts cannot direct the legislature to enact laws under their powers in Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It also rejected the demand for a committee to monitor/study online ticket sales.

The PIL, filed by Amit Vyas, the founder of Vertices Partners, comes after Vyas approached the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) in Mumbai in September last year , arguing that BookMyShow and Live Nation Entertainment committed organised crime, cheating, and criminal breach of trust. Vyas argued that the two companies conspired with each other to black-market the tickets for Coldplay’s January 2025 concert on the ticket reselling website Viagogo.

In his PIL, Vyas reiterated points that he had flagged in his complaint earlier, adding that the EOW’s inquiry into his complaint was delayed because BookMyShow, Live Nation, and BigTree Entertainment (BookMyShow’s parent company) were non-cooperative. He also mentioned allegations of illegal activities against TicketMaster, which is allegedly associated with Live Nation, in the UK, America and Canada. All of this, he says, points to a “systematic and deliberate pattern of misconduct in the global ticketing industry.”

He mentioned that the practices of ticket scalping, touting, and black marketing violate the fundamental rights of the public under Articles 14, 15(2), 19, and 21 of the Constitution of India. Vyas argued that BookMyShow infringed these rights (the right to equality, protection from discriminatory practices, and the right to life with dignity) because of the lack of fair and transparent mechanisms in online ticketing systems.

Vyas argued that jurisdictions such as the USA, UK, Australia, Canada, and Japan have enacted specific laws to tackle ticket touting and scalping. These legal frameworks include provisions that prevent bad actors from using automated bots—which Vyas alleged BookMyShow used to procure Coldplay tickets—to ensure fairness in ticket distribution and consumer protection. He said that India’s regulation of the online ticketing business should not only address the use of automated bots but also the conduct of primary ticket sellers (PTS) and primary ticketing websites (PTW).

In the absence of such regulations in India, Vyas contended, it is imperative that the government lay down interim guidelines to address ticket scalping. These guidelines could serve as the framework for the regulation of online ticket sales for major events and provide a deterrent against unlawful and unfair practices.

Besides seeking guidelines to address ticket scalping, Vyas also urged the court to constitute an expert committee that can carry out a detailed study of ticket sales and recommend measures to control and regulate it. In cases where there are irregularities in how platforms have sold event tickets, Vyas urged the court for directions to reconvene the online sale of tickets that people acquired through illegal, unfair, or deceptive acts. He also sought that the expert committee should look into the sale of Coldplay tickets on September 22, 2024.

The Bombay High Court responded to the PIL by saying that High Courts cannot direct the legislature to enact laws under their powers in Article 226 of the Constitution of India. For context, Article 226 of the Constitution allows high courts to issue writs to enforce fundamental rights. It mentions that courts can only guide the executive to comply with duties explicitly cast by existing statutes or constitutional provisions. They cannot assume a supervisory role over law-making powers, which remain within the exclusive domain of duly elected legislative bodies.

As such, the court cannot issue directions to the government to create a regulation to curb ticket scalping/ticket reselling.

“While the petitioner’s grievances highlight the urgent need for regulatory intervention to address the challenges posed by the evolving online ticketing industry, the responsibility for creating a statutory framework lies with the legislature,” the court says.

The court added that even if the court could issue directions to the government to protect fundamental rights, the practices listed in the current case do not “per se” violate fundamental rights unless the state or its instrumentalities are carrying them out. Article 14 guarantees the right to equality before the law. In this case, while Vyas argued that BookMyShow violated this right, he did not establish any State action or involvement of a State instrumentality that discriminates or arbitrarily restricts individuals from purchasing tickets.

Similarly, Article 15(2) prevents discrimination on grounds of religion, caste, race, sex or place of birth in access to shops, public restaurants, hotels, and places of public entertainment. However, mere commercial restrictions or inflated pricing without discrimination based on protected categories does not fall within the scope of the fundamental right. The court highlighted similar failures to establish fundamental rights violations with regard to Article 19 and Article 21 .

In his PIL, Vyas’s lawyer also argued that ticket scalping causes a loss to the national exchequer. Responding to this, the court argued that the Central Goods and Services Tax Act 2017, provides ample scope to tax enforcement authorities to take action where they believe that tax evasions occur. As such, the authorities can decide whether or not to take action.

However, under Article 226 of the constitution, it is neither necessary nor within the Court’s jurisdiction to issue directions compelling the authorities to act in a certain manner.

With regards to Vyas’ demand for an expert committee probe into the Coldplay ticket sales, the court said that this would be a speculative inquiry.

“The legal position on this issue is well settled. This Court, while exercising its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, must refrain from engaging in or compelling a roving or speculative inquiry, particularly where the petitioner has not established a prima facie violation of an existing legal right,” it maintains.

Further, the court rejected the demand for a committee to monitor/study online ticket sales. While reiterating the lack of established fundamental rights violations to justify such a committee, the court also pointed to the fact that Vyas had filed a complaint with EOW under Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (BNS). Under BNS, officers of the EOW have a duty to conduct a fair and comprehensive inquiry into all of Vyas’s allegations. If, in the course of the investigation, the EOW uncovers sufficient evidence suggesting a cognizable offense or a prima facie violation, it will be within their prerogative to take further steps, the court argued.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event