No cases of Aadhaar data being misused have come to the notice of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in response to a Parliament question on December 16.

The question was posed by Rajya Sabha member Narayana Koragappa. It related to the legislative measures undertaken by the government to prevent Aadhaar identity theft, and also inquired about the data on the cases of misuse of Aadhaar ID in the country and Karnataka.

What did the government say?

According to the reply , the IT minister said:

Why it matters?

Aadhaar, constituting the biometric data of the majority of the Indian population, has become a crucial identity proof linked with 1,100 schemes run by the central and state governments in the country. With increased reliance on Aadhaar, reports of violation of the Aadhaar Act by private entities , misuse of data due to leakages in the system and biometric theft in the past have highlighted the potential threats to people’s personal data. The minister’s response comes at a time when an Indian court is looking into the case of a petition filed against UIDAI’s contractual terms under which Aadhaar data is allegedly being shared with foreign companies without people’s consent. This raises the larger question of the government’s denial of long-standing problems in the UIDAI system and risks to citizens’ sensitive data in the absence of a data protection law.

CAG report on UIDAI’s security measures

The Comptroller Auditor General of India report in April 2022 had raised several faultlines in the functioning of the UIDAI and its measures pertaining the security of Aadhaar vaults and biometric data, MediaNama reported.

“UIDAI was neither able to derive required assurance that the entities involved in the authentication ecosystem had maintained their information systems which were compliant with the prescribed standards nor did it ensure compliance of Information Systems Audit by the appointed entities,” the CAG said in its report. The report also highlighted that UIDAI could not provide enough assurance that the implementation of Aadhaar vaults, which stored sensitive personal data, by entities was done with adherence to standard safety procedures.

Also Read:

A Month After Karza’s Aadhaar Act Violation, Finance Ministry Calls For A New Verification System

A Petition Asks: Did Citizens Of India Consent To Sharing Aadhaar Data With Foreign Companies?

Exercise ‘Normal Prudence’ With Aadhaar, Says MeitY After UIDAI Bengaluru Cautions Against Misuse Of Photocopies

What A UP Man Was Able To Do By Cloning Aadhaar-Linked Fingerprints

Summary: What The CAG Report Says About UIDAI’s Functioning And Security Of Aadhaar Vaults

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event