“Can we create a platform as powerful and as good and as seamless and as digital as the UPI platform for providing very quick and very easy credit to the MSME, small industries, small businessmen, people really at the bottom of the pyramid?” Ashwini Vaishnaw, the Minister of Electronics and IT said to bankers during the recent AzadiKaAmritMahotsav event hosted by the IT Ministry (MeitY).

The digital ecosystem for such a platform is available including Aadhaar, UPI, and Digilocker, the MeitY head mentioned.

During the pandemic, financially stressed Indians relied heavily on quick loan apps for cash, turned away by traditional banks due to tedious processes and creditworthiness assessments. While filling that gap with regulated entities is welcome, banks will have to figure out how to avoid the pitfalls of predatory loan apps.

Speaking at the event, Vaishnaw challenged bankers to leverage India’s digital ecosystem to make loans more accessible to small players:

“In the Modi government, we are a government of the people at the bottom of the pyramid – MSMEs, small businesses, the kinds of people who are unable to come to you [bankers]. Can we create a platform as powerful and as good and as seamless and as digital as the UPI platform for providing very quick and very easy credit to the MSME, small industries, small businessmen, people really at the bottom of the pyramid? I don’t know what the challenges are. I don’t know how difficult or easy that is. But you have today a very good ecosystem of Aadhaar, of mobile phones, of UPI platform, of DigiLocker. Practically everything that you need to create this ecosystem is today available. Take this challenge. Next three months, work on it. Come back. I’ll be very happy to spend one full day with you to look at the concepts that you came up with.” – Ashwini Vaishnaw, Minister of Electronics and Information Technology

My challenge to all the bankers and industry partners.… #DigidhanMission #AmritMahotsav pic.twitter.com/uO5H67iYDe

— Ashwini Vaishnaw (मोदी का परिवार) (@AshwiniVaishnaw) December 5, 2021

While Vaishnaw might have asked banks to come up with a seamless way to help small businesses and ‘people at the bottom of the pyramid’ access credit, that role was recently taken up by rogue loan apps that harass victims with sky-high interest rates and threats:

In January this year, the Reserve Bank of India constituted a Working Group to study all aspects of digital lending so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place. A few notable suggestions made in the report include:

The entire list of recommendations made by the RBI to tackle unauthorised lending apps is available here .

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event