I.A. 16049/2021 (of the defendant No.2 u/S 151 CPC for bringing on
 record its new postal address) 1. For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed and the
 new postal address of the defendant No.2 is taken on record. 2. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 11913/2020 (of the defendants u/O XI R-5(1) CPC ) 3. This application has been filed by the defendants for placing on
 record certain documents. 4. Arguments raised against the pleas of taking the additional
 documents on the record were that it has been improperly moved under Order XI Rule 1 CPC and whereas the defendants contended that these
 documents were essential to show that there was suppression and
 concealment by the plaintiffs and being public documents, their
 authenticity could not be questioned. 5. After hearing submissions, the application is allowed, and the
 documents are taken on record. 6. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 7682/2020 (of plaintiffs u/O XXXIX R-1 & 2 CPC for interim
 relief) 7. This suit has been filed for permanent injunction to restrain the
 defendants from infringing trademark belonging to the plaintiffs, passing
 off and further seeking rendition of accounts and protection against
 dilution, damages, delivery-up etc. In the suit, the application [I.A.
 7682/2020] sought to be disposed of by the present order seeks interim
 relief with the following prayers : 8. The plaintiffs are the owners and operators of various branded
 television channels whose logo contains the Star Device and its variant, as
 a prominent part in its family of marks. It is claimed that the plaintiffs have
 been using the trademark, tradename, and trading style "STAR" since
 1991, continuously and uninterruptedly in the broadcasting space, and, in
 India, when they launched the first TV channel, "STAR TV" in 1992. The
 plaintiffs claim to have developed a distinct identity when they launched
 the "STAR SPORTS" channel in 1996. Presently, they have 17 sports
 channels in varied languages such as Star Sports 1, Star Sports 1 Hindi,
 Star Sports 1 Tamil, etc. The Star Sports Channels broadcast various
 sporting events from across the world in the fields of cricket, football,
 badminton, tennis, hockey etc. including the Indian Premier League, the
 French Open, the US Open, the Premier League, Formula 1. 9. It is claimed that since inception, the family of Star Channels
 contains a distinguishing Star Device. The plaintiffs claimed that this five Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 3 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 pointed logo and the star marks in its reiterations has acquired the status of
 a well-known mark within the meaning of Section 2(1)(zg) of the Trade
 Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as 'T.M. Act') and as such the
 Star Device has become synonymous with the plaintiffs and their services.
 It is also claimed that the plaintiff No.1 is the prior adopter, prior user,
 registered proprietor and owner of the trademark "STAR" and a plurality
 of marks incorporating the word "STAR" and/or the uniquely designed
 five pointed star device including in its family of marks such as STAR

 (word mark), STAR & Logo , Star Device

 ("STAR Device"), STAR SPORTS (word mark), STAR SPORTS

 Logo , , etc. 10. The grievance of the plaintiffs is that the defendants have recently
 renamed their sports channel which was known as DSPORT with the logo

 of a globe, i.e. to EUROSPORT using the marks

 , , , and their
 variants thereof, in relation to their sports television channels. According
 to the plaintiffs, this usage of the Single Star for the marks and logo of the
 defendants was deceptively similar to the registered trademark of the
 plaintiffs and also contained the Star Device in its entirety. It is also
 submitted that the Star has been positioned prominently in juxtaposition
 with the letter „E‟ which was why the "Star" in "EUROSPORT" was
 deceptively similar to the various registered STAR Marks in India, Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 4 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 including , , , , ,

 , . 11. The defendant No.1 is EUROSPORT, defendant No.2 is Discovery
 Communications, LLC and defendant No.3 is Discovery Communications
 India. The defendants have filed a common written statement. It is
 submitted that the suit was a malicious attempt to wrongly obtain a
 commercial advantage over the defendants. It has been further stated in the
 written statement that the defendant No.1 is the registered proprietor of the
 impugned trademarks and their variations, not only in India but over 100
 jurisdictions around the world such as in Hong Kong, South Korea and
 Taiwan. It is further stated that the impugned marks have been used
 globally by the defendants since 2015 without objections including from
 the plaintiffs. 12. The further case set out is that the marks were dissimilar, and the
 suit also suffered from delay, laches, waiver, acquiescence, constructive
 assent, deemed consent and estoppel. 13. It is further stated in the written statement that the Ring of Stars that
 was used by the defendant No.1 when its brand EUROSPORT was
 launched in 1989 was in reminiscence of the stars used in the logo of the
 European Union, in turn signifying the jurisdiction of the origin by
 defendant No.1. However, over the years, the defendant No.1 has used
 multiple variations of its trademark which comprise an unchanged
 reiteration of a star or stars, and/or the underline brand and wordmark Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 5 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 EUROSPORT. These variations include . 14. According to the defendants, a bare perusal of these marks reveals
 their difference from the marks of the plaintiffs. 15. It is further stated that in the year 2012, 20% stake in EUROSPORT
 was acquired by DISCOVERY which then grew into full ownership in
 2015 and was a brand to reckon with in its own right. However, the brand
 EUROSPORT was given a facelift and the impugned mark was resultantly
 adopted in 2015 in order to enhance and modernize EUROSPORT‟s visual
 appeal. 16. It is further stated that on the basis of registration of the impugned
 trademark in WIPO Madrid in 2015, the final registration vide the
 Statement of Grant of Protection under Rule 18ter (1) of Common
 Regulations was given in India in 2017 (placed at page 85 of the
 defendants‟ documents). The defendants claim to have adopted the
 impugned mark more than 2 years before the plaintiffs and that the
 plaintiffs were now seeking to misuse the Settlement Agreement dated 26 th
 February, 2018. The defendants have expounded on the reach and
 reputation of the defendants in detail which need not be reproduced here. 17. In short, by way of the written statement, it has been submitted that
 the adoption of the impugned marks was bonafide and the defendants had a
 right to use the said marks and the impugned Star marks and device in
 EUROSPORT marks in general were essential and exclusive to
 defendants‟ brand identity and business and have been explicitly
 adjudicated as "well-known" in multiple jurisdictions. Hence, the
 defendants have sought the dismissal of the plaint. 18. The contents of the reply to the application being on similar terms
 need not be specifically and separately referred to for the sake of brevity. 19. In the replication filed by the plaintiffs, its case was reiterated with a
 complete denial of the claims made in the written statement.
 ARGUMENTS
 PLAINTIFFS‟ ARGUMENTS 20. Mr. Amit Sibal, learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs, has
 submitted that the plaintiffs were pioneers in cable T.V. and satellite
 broadcasting in India and had commenced operating its T.V. channels
 under the name of "STAR" with the Star Device and its variants since
 1991. The plaintiffs had more than 500 trademark registrations and
 applications with this device. The plaintiffs were well-established in India
 in broadcasting under the said style, name and logo, and also had reputed
 presence in several other countries. 21. It was pointed out that the defendants had used a star device in the
 shape of a Ring of Stars but never as a stand-alone star till 2015. By that
 time the plaintiffs had developed their marks as well-known marks all over
 the world, particularly in India. The entry of the defendants as DSPORT in
 India was in 2017 by which time viewers in India identified the stand-
 alone star device with the plaintiffs. It therefore, did not matter if the
 defendants had used a Single Star with EUROSTAR in Europe. That the
 mark and the star device belonging to the plaintiffs did in fact have a well-
 known character was conceded by the defendants when they entered into
 an Agreement dated 26th February, 2018 and changed the star device in the
 logo into a globe with the word "DSPORT". They could not be now
 permitted to re-enter India with a Single Star Device and the word Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 7 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 EUROSPORT on the plea that they used a similar mark in other
 jurisdictions. 22. With regard to the claim of the defendants that they had obtained the
 registration of EUROSPORT with a Single Star Device in India, the
 learned senior counsel submitted that the plaintiffs had filed objections
 which were pending and the application for rectification had also been
 filed, as the registration ought not to have been granted to them. However,
 since the Intellectual Property Appellate Board („IPAB‟) did not have
 powers to issue injunction, the instant suit has been filed for the said relief.
 Presently, the IPAB has also been disbanded and the application is pending
 before the IP Division of this Court. Thus, no right could be claimed by the
 defendants on the basis of a registration which was not valid. 23. Reliance has been placed on a number of decisions including
 Rajkumar Prasad Vs Abbott Healthcare, 2014 SCC OnLine Del 7708,
 Clinique Labs v. Gufic Ltd., 2009 SCC OnLine Del 751, South India
 Beverage v. General Mills Marketing Inc. 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1953, in
 support of the contention that the defendants had to be injucted from using
 the deceptively similar trademark and that too in the sphere of sports
 broadcasting. 24. The further contention of the learned senior counsel was that the
 defendants cannot take the dominant and essential features of the
 plaintiffs‟ mark or device to make their own mark. Thus, since the Single
 Star Device in the minds of the common person connected it to the
 plaintiffs as the originator of the services, the same star could not be taken
 by the defendants and made a part of their mark and device. Thus, in
 addition to infringement, the defendants were guilty of passing off in an Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 8 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 attempt to ride on the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiffs‟, built step-
 by-step since 1991/1992. By the use of the Single Star in EUROSPORT,
 unsuspecting viewers would connect it to the services rendered by the
 plaintiffs and that would deceive the public and act to the prejudice of the
 plaintiffs affecting its reputation and also causing dilution of their marks. 25. It is further submitted that there was no delay in approaching the
 court and there was no occasion to claim acquiescence. The cause to
 approach the court arose when the infringing trademarks were adopted by
 the defendants with intention to appropriate the plaintiff‟s goodwill. It was
 only in February 2020, that the defendants had commenced their sports
 channel with the impugned trademarks/device. Immediately notice to
 desist was issued and the instant suit was filed alongwith an application for
 rectification. There was no time lag to allow the defendants to raise the
 defence of acquiescence. 26. As regards the use of the star device, it was pointed out that the right
 to use the trademark must be also considered territorially and whatever be
 the scenario outside India since the plaintiffs‟ greatest target audience was
 in India and the target audience of EUROSPORT was in Europe, there was
 no immediate need for the plaintiffs to take steps in other jurisdictions
 against the use of the star device and logo. It was their entry into India that
 had a major impact on the plaintiffs and without delay the plaintiffs had
 taken all necessary steps to oppose such use. At no point of time, did the
 plaintiffs hold out or give an impression that they were okay with the use
 of a Single Star Device by the defendants. Reliance has been placed on Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. India Stationery Products Co. 1989 SCC
 Online Del 34, Dr. Reddy Laboratories Vs Reddy Pharmaceuticals 2004 Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 9 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 SCC OnLine Del 668, Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha Vs. Prius Auto
 Industries Ltd. & ors. ( 2018) 2 SCC 1, Patel Field Marshal Agencies v.
 P.M. Diesels Ltd. , (2018) 2 SCC 112. 27. It was submitted that the plaintiffs had thus disclosed a prima facie
 case in its favour. Since it was the first user of a Single Star Device
 globally and has registered the said mark and logo device in India and had
 used it in India much before the defendants, the balance of convenience lay
 in favour of the plaintiffs. When the defendants launched DSPORT
 initially with the Single Star Device, after objections were raised by the
 plaintiffs, the logo and device were changed into a globe which was used
 by the defendants for their sports channel for over 18 months whereafter,
 they suddenly changed into EUROSPORT with a Single Star in 2017.
 Thus, prior to 2017, they were not in India with the Single Star logo and
 mere pendency of the suit would not give them any vested right to continue
 to use the impugned trademarks, logo and device. It is further submitted
 that the loss to the reputation of the plaintiffs would be irreparable, if the
 defendants continued to use the impugned trademarks and device. Thus, it
 was prayed that the defendants be restrained from using the impugned
 trademarks whereafter the proceedings be stayed under Section 124(5) of
 T.M. Act till disposal of the rectification petition.
 DEFENDANTS ARGUMENTS 28. Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned senior counsel for the defendants,
 submitted that the suit was completely misconceived, and the plaintiffs
 were not entitled to any injunction against the defendants. It was pointed
 out that the two trademarks have been in co-existence in over 100
 jurisdictions since 2015 and yet the plaintiffs had never raised any Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 10 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 objections till 2020 by way of the present suit. The defendants had
 commenced the broadcast of sports under the name of EUROSPORT since
 1989 whereas Star Sports came into existence only in 1996 and, therefore,
 it was the defendant No.1 which was in prior use of Star logo/device.
 Initially, it was a Ring of Stars with five on the top and five at the bottom.
 Since 2003, globally and since 2004, in India, the Single Star logo/device
 which was solid, italicized with five points had been in use, which also
 establishes that it was the defendant No.1 which was the prior user. 29. The learned senior counsel submitted that the defendants had a far
 greater reach when compared to the plaintiffs and, therefore, the
 defendants had no need to encash on the reputation of the plaintiffs. For
 instance, while 3000 hours of programming across 75 countries was the
 performance of the defendants, the plaintiffs had only 1500 hours and that
 too only in India and Asia. The defendants were Europe‟s No.1 sports
 destination channel. The defendants‟ marks were themselves well-known
 and the use by the defendants of EUROSPORT with a Single Star has
 commenced in 2004 world-wide and the defendants had built up immense
 reputation with their reach in 135 millions homes in 54 countries in 20
 languages covering 120 sports, having 15 websites in 11 languages across
 jurisdictions and in 2020 the cumulative subscribers of the defendants were
 246 million across 75 countries. In contrast, as per the averments in the
 plaint itself, the plaintiffs had only 169 million subscribers for their STAR
 Sports channel, thus, showing that the defendants were much bigger with
 wider reach and greater repute than the plaintiffs. 30. The trademark of the defendants was also registered in 21 territories
 where the plaintiffs also claim to have trademark registration, but in none Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 11 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 of these territories, objections have been raised by the plaintiffs on any
 ground whatsoever. The Settlement Agreement also reflected acquiescence
 and acceptance that the defendants‟ trademark was well-known, and the
 defendants had a large following of subscribers and reputation. Since the
 defendants were well-established, world-wide in the field and being the
 prior user, there was no question of taking any advantage of the reputation
 that the plaintiffs may have in India or overseas. 31. It was submitted that under Section 29 of the T.M. Act, the basis for
 infringement would be whether the defendants‟ marks are deceptively
 similar to those of the plaintiffs as a whole and whether the deceptive
 similarity was likely to cause confusion or likely to make people believe an
 association between the two products or services with regard to their
 origin. It was submitted that these tests were not met in the instant case.
 The two marks had to be compared as a whole and when the composite
 star device and words were compared in accordance with the anti-
 dissection rules, it was more than apparent that there was no confusion to
 the consumers by the use of the trademark by the defendants. 32. It was also submitted that Star was a celestial object and no one can
 claim exclusive use of the word „Star‟ or for that matter stake an exclusive
 claim to the device of the Star. The only exclusivity that could be claimed
 was in the manner of portraying the Star which was dissimilar in the
 present case. Though the objections/rectification had been filed by the
 plaintiffs to the registration of the defendants‟ trademarks, it was pointed
 out that in respect of the trademarks of the plaintiffs themselves, there were
 objections filed and the plaintiffs had also issued disclaimers that the
 registrations in their favour would not give them exclusive right to the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 12 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 word „Star‟ or the „Device of Star‟. In other words, they were fully aware
 of the factual position that they had no exclusive rights to the word Star or
 the device of a Star and could not now stake a claim by means of the
 present suit. 33. The learned senior counsel referred to various documents placed on
 the record to establish that the defendants were co-existing with the
 plaintiffs in several jurisdictions. It was the further contention of the
 learned senior counsel that under Section 28 (3) of T.M. Act, no injunction
 can be issued against the registered proprietor and, therefore, the plaintiffs
 have no prima facie case in their favour so long as the registration was not
 rectified, and the registered trademarks of the defendants removed.
 Reliance has been placed on Jindal Industries Ltd. vs Nirmal Steel Tubes
 Pvt. Ltd. , 1994 SCC OnLine Del 347 and P.M. Diesels Pvt. Ltd. vs
 Thukral Mechanical Works , 1988 SCC OnLine Del 34, to contend that in
 these circumstances the very suit was not maintainable. 34. Importantly, according to the learned senior counsel, when the
 plaintiffs sought suspension of the trademark when the matter was pending
 before the erstwhile IPAB, vide its order dated 7th August, 2020 and the
 clarificatory order dated 17th December 2020, the relief was declined. The
 only restraint on the defendants was against transferring these registered
 trademarks and logos to any third-party. It was only thereafter that the
 present suit was filed and so it was in effect a second bite at the cherry, a
 practice to be deprecated. According to the learned senior counsel, this also
 tantamounts to forum shopping which was again impermissible. Since
 these facts were not disclosed in the plaint, there was suppression of
 material facts on which ground also, the plaintiffs were not entitled to Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 13 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 discretionary relief. Reliance was placed in Kamini Jaiswal vs. Union of
 India , (2018) 1 SCC 156 (3JJ.) and Allied Blenders and Distillers Pvt.
 Ltd. vs. Amit Dahanukar 2019 SCC OnLine Del 8898. 35. Another fact that was suppressed by the plaintiffs was their own
 disclaimer before the Registrar of Trademarks in respect of the same
 device of Star, documents in respect of which have been filed by the
 defendants on this record. So too, the discretionary relief could not be
 granted to the plaintiffs. Once such disclaimer had been made by the
 plaintiffs, in effect it was an acknowledgment of the absence of exclusive
 rights to the Star Device, despite the registration of the said trademarks and
 no such rights in the present suit against the defendants could be claimed
 by the plaintiffs. 36. Reliance has been placed on Parakh Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Baroma
 Agro Product , 2018 ( 16) SCC 632, Bawa Masala Company Vs. Gulzari
 Lal Lajpat Rai , 1974 SCC OnLine Del 121, Surya Agro Oils Ltd. Vs.
 Surya Coconut Oil Industries 1994 SCC Online Del 266 and Mercy Bigi
 Vs Sunil Kumar, 2015 SCC OnLine Ker 16947. 37. Relying on ( i) Gufic Ltd. Vs Clinique Laboratories, LLC 2010 SCC
 Online Del 2322, (ii) Nandini Deluxe Vs Karnataka Cooperative Milk
 Producers Federation Ltd., (2018) 9 SCC 183, (iii) Rajesh Jain Vs Amit
 Jain, 2014 SCC OnlineDel 1984 and (iv) PP Jewellers Pvt. Ltd. Vs PP
 Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. 2010 SCC OnLine Del 932, it was submitted that when
 two marks were to be compared, the trademark could not be split into
 constituent elements and must be seen as a whole. 38. When the Device and Trademarks of the plaintiffs and the
 defendants were juxtaposed, there was absolutely no confusion that could Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 14 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 arise on similarity between the two trademarks as the two were distinct.
 There was no visual or structural similarity in the manner in which the Star
 itself has been depicted. This was the stand taken by the plaintiffs when
 their registered trademarks were objected to by others. Thus, the plaintiffs
 cannot be permitted to blow hot and cold at the same time. 39. Coming to the Settlement, it was submitted that in the various
 paragraphs in the Settlement itself, the plaintiffs have acknowledged that
 EUROSPORT has a registered trademark of a Star or of several Stars and
 that they had been using the same from a date prior to the plaintiffs in over
 54 countries and that there was a group of EUROSPORT marks, thus, also
 acknowledging that there is more than one registered trademark and
 depiction of „Star‟ that belonged to the defendants. Moreover, the
 Agreement was limited only to sports which was evident from the recitals
 in the Agreement itself. The plaintiffs also undertook not to object to the
 EUROSPORT marks, particularly such marks which include not only the
 use of a Ring of Stars but also a Single Star depicted in a stylized manner.
 In short, the plaintiffs had conceded the right of the defendants to use the
 said marks and having waived their rights, cannot now seek injunctions
 against the plaintiffs and the suit deserved to be dismissed as a sheer abuse
 of process. 40. The next argument was that the suit was barred by acquiescence.
 Since the plaintiffs had not raised any objection when EUROSPORT was
 launched in India with the Single Star Device and the defendants had
 benefitted therefrom, the defendants could not now be restrained from
 using it. The learned counsel, however, referred to several documents
 which included promotional material, media coverage, publicity material Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 15 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 for sports, screenshots of the programs and recording broadcast by the
 defendants to show that the Single Star Mark was a well-known trademark
 globally. Reliance has also been placed on the decisions by the WIPO
 Arbitration & Mediation Centre holding that EUROSPORT was a well-
 known mark and has a strong reputation in Europe and world-wide. 41. Reliance has been placed on Milmet Oftho Industries v. Allergan
 Inc. ( 2004) 12 SCC 624, Cadbury UK Ltd. Vs Lotte India Corporation 2014 SCC OnLine Del 367 and Choice Hotels International Inc Vs M.
 Sanjay Kumar , 2015 SCC OnLine Del 7407, to submit that the defendants
 were the first to use the logo of a „Star‟ world-wide. Therefore, even if
 reputation had not been built on account of absence of local sales, the
 defendants would be entitled to consideration of spill over reputation from
 other jurisdictions as trans-border reputation was a significant factor to be
 considered and reputation was something that was dynamic. Reliance has
 been placed on NR Dongre Vs Whirlpool Corpn. 1996 5 SCC 714, Rolex
 Sa Vs Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. , 2009 SCC OnLine Del 753,
 Lowenbrau AG Vs Jagpin Breweries Ltd., 2009 SCC OnLine Del 45, Star
 Bazaar Pvt. Ltd. Vs Trent Ltd. , 2009 SCC Online Del 3337, South India
 Beverage (supra). Thus, the defendants could not be restrained from using
 their registered trademarks. 42. With regard to the judgments relied upon by the plaintiffs, it was
 submitted that South India Beverage (supra) would work in favour of the
 defendants as "Star" being generic would be less significant in the
 trademark. 43. The issue in A. Ayyasamy v. A Paramasivam (2016) 10 3 SCC 386,
 was one under arbitration law and did not have any applicability save for Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 16 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 the principle that the refusal of the IPAB to injuct the defendants would be
 binding on this Court being a civil court. The decision in Hindustan
 Pencils Pvt. Ltd. (supra) was in public interest in order to protect the
 general public from spurious goods, which fact situation did not exist in
 the present case. In Wockhardt Ltd. Vs. Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ,
 (2018) 18 SCC 346, the decision upheld the rights flowing from prior use
 by the plaintiff, holding that such prior use was the determining factor.
 Again, this judgment would help the defendants inasmuch as the
 defendants are the prior users of the Star Device. 44. As regards the decision in Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha (supra), it was urged that it could be distinguished on facts. In the present
 case where there was a spill over reputation the use of the trademark could
 not be limited on the basis of territoriality and there was prior use by the
 defendants and a complete absence of deceptive similarity. 45. Learned senior counsel for the defendants contended that several of
 the submissions made on behalf of the plaintiffs were without pleadings
 especially in respect of the type of sports events that were broadcast by
 both of the parties and the reach of the plaintiffs in different jurisdictions. 46. It was nowhere pleaded that the reputation of the plaintiffs‟ mark
 was territorial and, therefore, infringement must be seen qua India and
 nowhere else. Whereas, admittedly, in the plaint it is stated that it was the
 principal marks of the plaintiffs in both Europe and India, where the two
 trademarks were co-existing. Rather, the pleadings admitted the extent and
 operation and reach of the defendants which was much more than that of
 the plaintiffs and some self-serving averments in the replication would not
 justify a restraint on the defendants. At the same time, it was pointed out Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 17 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 that the defendants‟ website/channel on social media was available even in
 India using the same impugning mark which fact has also not been denied,
 again, establishing that there has been no confusion resulting from such
 common use. 47. Finally, it was submitted that the balance of convenience lies in
 favor of the defendants as it would suffer immensely if not allowed to use
 the registered trademark in India and since the trademark of the plaintiffs
 and the defendants were co-existing in 23 other countries and no confusion
 had admittedly occurred, the absence of interim relief would cause no
 harm to the plaintiffs. Thus, it was prayed that the application under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC be dismissed. REJOINDER ARGUMENTS 48. In rejoinder, Mr. Amit Sibal, learned senior counsel for the
 plaintiffs, contesting all the submissions of Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned
 senior counsel for the defendants, asserted that on the basis of documents,
 that the plaintiffs were the first user of the Single Star Device in electronic
 media, the world over. The plaintiff‟s registration is in India and so the
 rights of the plaintiffs were to be determined under the trademark law and
 common law, as applicable in India. Global use of the trademarks were,
 therefore, not relevant. The status of the trademark being well-known
 would therefore be seen with reference to the public in India and causing
 of confusion and preservation of distinctiveness of the plaintiffs‟
 trademarks were also to be considered territorially in India. Moreover, the
 use of the Single Star by EUROSPORT was never in respect of broadcast
 of sports events but was first used for EUROSPORT NEWS which had no
 distribution or access in India in 2004. Also, EUROSPORT NEWS used Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 18 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 both the Single Star as also Multiple Stars and there was no exclusive use
 of the Single Star even then. There is nothing brought on record to show
 that the defendants were in India since 1989. Rather, the documents only
 reflected that they were in Europe and not in India, as the publications
 relied upon by the defendants were British. 49. The defendants had not disclosed the number of their subscribers or
 viewers in India and so the extent of viewership or number of subscribers
 in other countries was not relevant for determination of the present matter.
 There is no dispute that the defendants had entered in Indian market only
 in 2017, initially as DSPORT after the defendant No.2/DISCOVERY had
 taken over EUROSPORT. Relying on the judgment in Banyan Tree
 Holdings vs. A Murali Krishna Reddy 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780, it was
 urged that a passive website even if it was accessible in India would not be
 relevant to determine the presence of the defendants in India to constitute a
 defense of prior use. As regards the App of the defendants, it is nowhere
 mentioned that it was available in India since 2017. 50. In contrast, the plaintiffs have placed several documents to establish
 the presence of the plaintiffs in India since 1991 continuously and
 uninterruptedly. It was submitted that "STAR" in the trademark of the
 plaintiffs was not the celestial object, but was an acronym for Satellite
 Television in Asia Region (for short, „STAR‟). Therefore, the use of the
 word STAR is unique. Moreover, it does not of its own, depict the nature
 of the services provided, again making the use of the word STAR a
 creative use by the plaintiffs. Reliance has been placed on the annual
 reports and other documents to show that since 1991, the plaintiffs have
 been increasing their width of services by introducing Star Movies in 1994, Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 19 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 acquiring Prime Sports to commence Star Sports channels in 1996 and Star
 Plus, for its entertainment channels. In all of these channels, the plaintiffs
 have always used the Single Star depicted in a particular fashion and thus,
 that Star Device had become synonymous to the services provided by the
 plaintiffs. 51. With regard to reputation built by the plaintiffs over a period of
 time, the learned counsel highlighted the number of awards that the various
 channels of the plaintiffs including the Star Sports channel, have won.
 When the plaintiffs moved on to the OTT platform, the Star Device was
 used in Hotstar including for sports from 2014 onwards. 52. The learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs argued that the
 documents of the defendants themselves show that the original logo was a
 circle of stars and not a Single Star Device. The documents relating to the
 brand history of the defendants‟ channels EUROSPORT establish that
 from 1989 till May, 2011, the defendants had used only a Circle of Stars.
 During the same period, the plaintiffs had established its use of the Single
 Star Device. Further, it is evident from the documents of the defendants
 that the colors of the stars were changed in 2010 and 2014 but the Circle of
 Stars continued to be the logo of the defendants. 53. EUROSPORT NEWS, which used a Single Star was only in United
 Kingdom and the stray instance could not suffice to establish the use of the
 mark as a brand. In the news report (at page 156) connected to the
 acquisition of EUROSPORT by DISCOVERY LLC, in 2015, it was
 acknowledged that the logo used had always been a Ring of Stars since
 inception, even according to the defendants. It was revealed in the
 interview by Peter Hutton at page 651, of the documents filed by the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 20 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 defendants on 2nd December, 2015 that EUROSPORT was a "nice sleepy
 second- tier channel" and was not a "strong brand" as written at page 652,
 thus, conceding that EUROSPORT had no reputation till DISCOVERY
 LLC acquired it in November, 2015. 54. It is only then that the logo was changed from the Ring of Stars to a
 Single Star. The defendants were till then relaying events that had already
 taken place, whereas the plaintiffs aired marquee events such as the World-
 Cup and other sports which appeal to Indian audiences whereas
 EUROSPORT had programs relating to cycling, soccer etc. of recorded
 events taking place in Europe. Even then the defendants had not entered
 India in November 2015. 55. Thus, territoriality had relevance and was an important factor in
 favour of the plaintiffs for an injunction against the defendants. 56. Thus, when the plaintiffs had a family of Single Star marks for their
 different channels, the use of a Single Star by the defendants would lead
 the viewers to believe that this was just another variant belonging to the
 plaintiffs and thus, confusion regarding the source of the service would
 occur. Dilution as a result of association also is the consequence. Cases
 referred to are Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma Vs Navaratna
 Pharmaceuticals Lab ( 1965) 1 SCR 737, Renaissance Hotels Holdings
 Inc. Vs B. Vijaya Sai , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 61, HTC Corporation Vs LV
 Degao, 2022 SCC OnLine Del 253, South India Beverage v. General
 Mills Marketing Inc. 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1953. 57. It was submitted that the decision in South India Beverage (supra)
 would not stand in the way of protection to the plaintiffs‟ trademark
 inasmuch as the logo/device of star is the dominant one compared to the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 21 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 word "sports" and it is also a matter of impression on the viewers.
 Moreover, when for 18 months DSPORT used the Globe and not the Star,
 they continued to use the Single Star with EUROSPORT in other
 countries. This again would show that use of the trademark was territorial
 and as far as India is concerned, the trademark of the plaintiffs ought to be
 protected. 58. Another argument set forth by the learned senior counsel for the
 plaintiffs is that it was through DISCOVERY that DSPORT had goodwill
 in India and not EUROSPORT. When DSPORT entered India and used the
 Single Star, the matter was resolved and an Agreement entered into
 whereby the defendants agreed not to use a „STAR‟ in whatsoever form.
 Once they had agreed to never use the Single Star logo in India, to now
 insist on doing so was in violation of their-own undertaking and could not
 be allowed. The assurance had been in respect of future reiterations also
 and thus, the defendants had completely given up any claim to use the
 Single Star Device/logo in India in whatsoever manner. The use of the Star
 logo referred to in the Agreement was in respect of other products and
 therefore, it would be incorrect to say that the plaintiffs had given up any
 right by entering into the Settlement. Thus, the use of the „Star‟ by the
 defendants was not bonafide and could not be protected. 59. With regard to the arguments of acquiescence, learned senior
 counsel for the plaintiffs submitted that it was only in February, 2020 that
 the defendants had launched the EUROSPORT with the Single Star
 logo/device and a legal notice had been issued, a rectification application
 was also duly filed before the IPAB and thereafter, the present suit had
 been filed and therefore, there was no time lag to reflect acquiescence by Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 22 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 the plaintiffs. 60. With regard to registration of similar trademarks in other
 jurisdictions, the learned senior counsel pointed out from the record that
 these were not all in use in the different jurisdictions, particularly, in
 respect of sports events. Viewership in six foreign countries evident from
 the documents placed on the record by the defendants (Index-4, documents
 No.3) would show that India is not included in the list and moreover, if the
 operation of the plaintiffs was not very significant or that of the defendant
 was insignificant, the plaintiffs would be quite justified in not initiating
 any legal action against the defendants and the mere absence of such a
 litigation in other jurisdictions would not be fatal to the present suit.
 Reliance has been placed on the cases of Pankaj Goel vs. Dabur India
 Ltd. 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744 and Telecare Network India Pvt. Ltd. Vs
 Asus Technology Pvt. Ltd. 2019 SCC Online Del 8739. The decisions
 relied upon by the defendants to establish that their mark was a well-
 known mark, were not relevant since they did not relate to the reputation in
 India. Thus, merely to say that trademark of both parties existed in other
 jurisdiction would not be sufficient for the plaintiffs to be denied relief. 61. With respect to the alleged concealment of facts, the learned senior
 counsel pointed out that the disclaimers were in respect of registration in
 classes that were other than broadcasting and therefore were not mentioned
 in the plaint. Such disclaimers would have no effect on the relief claimed
 in the suit and non-disclosure was not of a material fact nor was there
 concealment with suppression. 62. As regards broadcasting, the plaintiffs had never issued any
 disclaimer and that alone would be relevant for a decision in the present Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 23 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 case. Reliance has been placed on the decision in Cadbury UK Ltd. (supra) and Parakh Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. Vs Baroma Agro Product 2018
 (16) SCC 632, to submit that even if some disclaimer had been made, the
 disclaimer being not of the same class would not deprive the plaintiffs of
 the protection against infringement and passing off for which the present
 suit has been filed (see : KEI Industries Ltd. Vs Raman Kwatra 2022 SCC
 OnLine Del 1459, Telecare Network India Pvt. Ltd. Vs Asus Technology
 Pvt. Ltd. 2019 SCC Online Del 8739). 63. Thus, it was submitted that the plaintiffs were entitled to injunction
 against the defendants, as they had created the word "STAR" and even if it
 was a common word, it had been arbitrarily used and was thus to be
 protected. The defendants had never come to India till 2017 and when it
 did in the shape of DSPORTS, it had agreed to not use the Single Star and
 had commenced to use the Globe and whereas the plaintiffs had been in
 India since 1991 and had developed a huge viewership based in India and
 that plaintiffs were entitled to temporary protection against the defendants.
 Thus, it was prayed that the injunction be issued. DISCUSSION
 PRELIMINARY OBJECTION 64. The first contention raised by the learned senior counsel for the
 defendants was that this was a case of forum shopping since the IPAB had
 declined to grant interim relief to the plaintiffs, but that argument would
 presume that the powers exercised by the IPAB, and the civil court are the
 same and approaching one would oust the jurisdiction of the other. The
 decision of the Full Bench of the IPAB in Shreedhar Milk Food Pvt. Ltd Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 24 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 v. Vikas Tyagi 2013 SCC OnLine IPAB 109 only affirms that the powers
 existed in the IPAB to grant interim stay under Section 95 of the T.M. Act,
 particularly where the registration had been obtained by fraud. The issue
 considered in that case was whether the IPAB had powers to grant interim
 orders pending final disposal of the application for rectification.
 Depending on the facts of each case, it was held that the IPAB had such
 powers. In fact, it is to be noted that certain guidelines for exercise of that
 discretion were prescribed in that case . Nowhere in the judgment has it
 been held that the exercise of such powers by the IPAB would result in the
 extinguishment of the right to file a suit for infringement. Had it been that
 the exercise of those powers would preclude the civil court from exercising
 similar powers including in a suit filed after the initiation of rectification
 proceedings, there would have been no need for Section 124 of the T.M.
 Act. 65. Section 57 of the T.M. Act provides that whenever the validity of
 the registration of the trademark is questioned, proceedings for
 rectification of registration can be filed. These could be filed before the
 filing of a suit or even thereafter. Where a suit is filed without a
 rectification application pending, and a dispute is raised regarding the
 validity of the registration, the court is to frame the issue in order to enable
 the party concerned to apply to the Appellate Board (now IP Division of
 the High Court) for rectification of the Register. The suit will be then
 stayed. Where such rectification application is pending, then the civil court
 will stay the suit, without the need to frame an issue. 66. Had the suit been not maintainable at all, the provisions would have
 been couched differently to convey in precise terms that a suit itself could Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 25 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 not be filed or entertained when rectification proceedings are pending or
 that the suit proceedings would end once the issue is referred to the IPAB
 for rectification of the register. More significantly, Section 124(5) of the
 T.M. Act allows the civil court to pass interlocutory orders before staying
 the suit for infringement of a trademark pending rectification of the
 register. It is trite that an interpretation that gives primacy to the legislative
 intent is to be preferred over one that would render the provisions otiose. 67. Turning to the facts of the present case, the records do reveal that the
 plaintiff had sought interim relief and the IPAB had passed the following
 order on 7th August 2020: A clarificatory order was passed on 17th December, 2020 as under : 68. It is clear that the orders were only intended to be till the next date
 of hearing. They do not refer to a separate prayer for interim injunction as
 is available before a civil court under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC . It
 appears clearly that merits had not been considered by the IPAB when it Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 26 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 passed the said orders. Therefore, this Court would not be precluded from
 considering the question of grant of interim relief under Order XXXIX
 Rules 1 & 2 CPC . 69. Thus, if proceedings before the IPAB for rectification is pending, the
 filing of the suit cannot tantamount to forum shopping even if the IPAB
 had declined to exercise its discretion to grant interim relief following the
 guidelines provided in M/s Sridhar Milk Food Products Ltd. (supra). It is
 also moot that a civil suit would not only be filed against trademark
 infringement but also for the use of the mark to pass off goods/services. An
 order of injunction may be necessitated if passing off is made out. There is,
 thus, no doubt that the powers of the civil court are wider than the powers
 of the IPAB in issuing interim/interlocutory orders. If a party has
 approached the IPAB for interim relief and the same has been declined, it
 would no doubt be a relevant fact that could be kept in mind by the civil
 court while determining the question of grant of interim injunction by it,
 provided the interim injunction was declined for reasons given. In the light
 of the discussion herein-above, this Court concludes that the present
 application under consideration will have to be considered on merits and
 the plea taken of forum shopping is rejected. 70. Since the IPAB has been abolished and rectification matters have
 now to be considered by the Commercial Division/IP Division of the High
 Court, the exercise of powers by the High Court Commercial Division/IP
 Division under Section 95 of the T.M Act and the powers to be exercised
 by a Civil Court/Commercial Court under Section 124 of the T.M. Act
 may require a more detailed consideration. That aspect is left open as it is
 not required in the present case where the interim order has been passed by Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 27 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 the IPAB. INTERIM INJUNCTION - WHETHER TO BE GRANTED 71. It is trite that the grant of interim injunction would depend on the
 existence of a prima-facie case, the balance of convenience being in favour
 of the plaintiffs and the irreparable loss and injury that a party to the suit
 could suffer in the event the interim relief was or was not granted. The
 three conditions have to be simultaneously satisfied. It would not be
 enough were the plaintiff to establish the existence of a prima-facie case
 where irreparable loss and injury is not suffered or the balance of
 convenience tilts in the favour of the defendant. It is quite possible for the
 court to refuse the interim relief. The facts of the present case would
 therefore, be required to be assessed in this backdrop. 72. The admitted position is that the two trademarks are registered
 trademarks. While the mere fact that the two marks are registered would
 not be the clinching factor in dealing with injunction against passing off, as
 regards trademark infringement, Section 30 provides for use of a registered
 trademark by another in certain circumstances viz. to identify goods and
 services as those of the proprietor provided such use is in accordance with
 honest practices and is not such as to take unfair advantage or being
 detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of the trademark. Section
 31 declares registration to be prima-facie evidence of its validity. Section
 28 vests rights of exclusive use of a trademark to the register proprietor
 provided the registration is valid. 73. Admittedly, the registration of the defendants‟ marks is under
 challenge and a rectification application is pending. This Court in HTC
 Corpn v. LV Degao 2022 SCC OnLine Del 953 has held that where there Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 28 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 are two registered trademarks, while both proprietors could use their
 respective trademarks exclusively against third party, but not against each
 other, but the registration of the later Trade Mark may be refused or
 cancelled: (i) when deception or confusion results, (ii) there is dishonest
 user, (iii) subsequent use is without due cause, (iv) there is bad faith, or (v)
 dilution of the distinctiveness of a prior registered Trade Mark may occur.
 Therefore, these factors would be relevant to decide whether the
 subsequent user/registered proprietor should be restrained from using its
 Trade Mark, even if it was registered. 74. The plaintiffs have claimed prior use of the Single Star logo and the
 word STAR. Star India Pvt. Ltd. had commenced its broadcasting in India
 way-back in 1991 and launched its first television channel Star TV in India
 in the year 1992. The defendants claim that they had adopted a star logo in
 1989 when it had come into being and when EUROSPORT had
 commenced its business of broadcasting in sports. The question of
 territoriality, as considered in Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha (supra)
 would be relevant while determining the conflicting rights claimed by both
 sides. Both, prior use and territoriality are factors that would be crucial in
 the action for passing off. Deception and confusion would determine
 equities being in whose favour, not only in a passing off action, but also in
 action against trademark infringement. So also would be the question of
 dilution of the distinctiveness of the registered trademark. But bad faith
 and a dishonest adoption of a registered trademark would justify an
 injunction to restrain a proprietor of a registered trademark from using it. If
 the plaintiffs were to establish a prior entry into India and a prior user of
 the registered trademark of the word „STAR‟ and the Single Star Device in Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 29 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 India and it appears that the defendants, though may be in use of a Ring of
 Stars or a Single Star Device in European countries, had come much later,
 the plaintiffs would still be entitled for an injunction for it is the reputation
 of each one in India that would matter, being competitors in the same field
 of broadcasting of sports events. Both would be vying for the same space
 and viewership. Use of similar trademarks could lead to the possibility or
 likelihood of confusion. The presence or absence of the defendants in the
 same market where the plaintiffs were operating their channels would also
 determine the entitlement to an injunction. 75. Therefore, even if EUROSPORT had commenced business in 1989
 in Europe, it would also be relevant to determine as to when they had
 entered the Indian market. It is apparent from the record that they seem to
 have done so only in 2017. The various documents filed by the plaintiffs
 would indicate that since 1992 till 2017, the company Star India Pvt. Ltd.
 and Star TV Production Ltd. had expanded their broadcasting activities by
 introducing several channels which included entertainment and sports. The
 name of these channels included the word „Star‟ as also a Single Star logo
 placed in a particular manner and its variations in color and shading. The
 reputation that these channels and the popularity of these channels with the
 viewing public has resulted in the Single Star logo being identified with
 the plaintiffs as the originator of the content on these channels and the
 provider of entertainment and sports programs on television in India. 76. It is to be noted further that the Star logo that was adopted by the
 defendants was a Ring of Stars. That Ring of Stars is distinctive when
 compared to the Single Star logo of the plaintiffs. Had the defendants
 introduced that logo in India when it entered the Indian sports broadcasting Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 30 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 arena, it is clear that there would have been no similarity in the two marks.
 But the comparison is between the Single Star used in EUROSPORT and
 the Single Star Device used by the plaintiffs, and whether such use by
 EUROSPORT adversely impacts the rights of the plaintiffs. No doubt
 when two marks are to be compared, there cannot be a surgical separation
 of the word and it would be an overall impression of the mark that would
 be considered. The argument was therefore that EUROSPORT was not at
 all similar and obviously not identical to Star Sports. That may be so, but
 when the Single Star Device is used by EUROSPORT, in the light of the
 fact that the plaintiffs had several channels, the possibility of confusion
 cannot be ignored. The distinctiveness of the mark of the plaintiffs would
 be affected adversely by multiple usages by others. 77. It is no doubt true that „Star‟ is a celestial object but it would be
 incorrect to accept the contention of the learned senior counsel for the
 defendants that the adoption of the word „STAR‟ and the use of the „Star‟
 device would therefore be commonly available and the plaintiffs could
 claim no monopoly over the name "Star" or the common shape of a star.
 The plaintiffs can claim exclusivity in their own specific representation of
 the star, as has been held in Skyline Education Institute (India) Pvt. Ltd.
 Vs. SL Vaswan (2010) 2 SCC 142, Surya Agro Oils Ltd (supra) and
 Mercy Bigi (supra). A word that is descriptive and in common use for a
 particular object, by its use should immediately bring to the mind that
 object alone. A star to a common person would not connect to an
 entertainment and sports broadcasting channel. The use of a completely
 unconnected word and device to represent the broadcasting channels of the
 plaintiffs is a creative usage of the common word which requires to be Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 31 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 protected. It is the plaintiffs‟ case that they had coined the word „STAR‟ as
 an acronym for Satellite Television in Asia Region. The device was
 created depicting a „Star‟ in a stylized manner. The defendants have no
 explanation for choosing the Single Star logo, though they have one for the
 Ring of Stars, that is to reflect the European Union. Thus, the plaintiffs
 have a right to protect the use of a common word in a novel manner. 78. The contention that the plaintiffs have themselves acknowledged the
 common nature of the word „Star‟ and the device by issuing disclaimers
 must be also seen in the backdrop of the products for which such
 disclaimers have been issued. The extracts of the disclaimers which have
 been filed by the defendants, as having been made by the plaintiffs
 themselves, are in respect of products and goods and are to the effect that
 registration of their marks shall give no right to the "exclusive use of the
 device of "STAR" except as represented". There does not appear to be any
 disclaimer in classes 9/38/41 i.e. broadcasting. Also they reserve the
 plaintiffs‟ right to use the particular representation. That the plaintiffs did
 not file these disclaimers alongwith the plaint, will not be a suppression of
 material facts as such disclaimers do not have any relevance to the matter
 at hand. In contrast, the claim of the defendants that they had been using
 the Single Star even if it was to be accepted, was only in an extremely
 limited manner, in respect of Sports news on a webpage. It was not
 consistently used while telecasting the sports events on television. It was
 only in 2015 that EUROSPORT after being taken over by DISCOVERY
 i.e. defendants No.2 & 3 that they adopted the Single Star logo placed in a
 distinctive manner within the alphabet „E‟. 79. The co-existence of both the trademarks in various jurisdictions Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 32 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 would not act as an estoppel against the plaintiffs from seeking to protect
 their trademarks in India. If the impact on the business in other jurisdiction
 was negligible, the plaintiffs would be justified in taking a call as to initiate
 legal action or to ignore the use. 80. The scale of operation of the plaintiffs in India being huge as
 reflected in their annual reports, where millions of households watch the
 channels of the plaintiffs including their sports channel, the use of a Single
 Star logo by the defendants would prima-facie be on account of that
 popularity and reputation that the plaintiffs had built in India. That the
 EUROSPORT was itself not a very popular channel in Europe is also
 evident from their own public statement made by Peter Huton on 2nd
 December 2015 (placed at page Nos.651-654 of the Defendant‟s
 documents) that the channel had not been doing well as having focused on
 recorded events and that a complete overhaul was being done by
 DISCOVERY to rebrand itself as also to add more premium events in the
 broadcast. This admission in 2015 though relevant for EUROSPORT
 would also concededly establish that they had no presence in India up to
 2015 when they came in with DSPORT. By that time the plaintiffs were
 well entrenched in the sports and entertainment arena of the electronic
 media under the trademark „STAR‟ and the distinctive Star logo. 81. That the adoption of the Single Star by the defendants did not reflect
 honest practice is evident from the chain of events that had taken place
 between the parties. In 2017, the defendants had entered into the sports
 broadcasting arena in India under the name DSPORT after DISCOVERY
 had taken over EUROSPORT. They adopted a Single Star Device
 embedding it in the alphabet „D‟. Immediately, the plaintiffs protested by Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 33 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 issuing a legal notice dated 30th March, 2017. The matter was resolved by
 the parties entering into a Settlement dated 26th February, 2018 which was
 also amended on 22nd October, 2018. This Agreement is an important
 document and its contents worth noting in detail. Reference in the
 Agreement has been made to EUROSPORT network of television channels
 in para (ii) recording it having offered premium sports content in several
 markets for nearly 30 years and enjoying a cumulative viewership of 231
 million viewers across 54 countries. Reference was also made to the fact
 that there were several EUROSPORT formative trademarks. 82. With regard to the plaintiffs‟ trademarks, it is stated in the
 Agreement that it had launched the earliest of the Star Channels in the year
 1992 and was at the time of the Agreement, broadcasting more than 50
 channels in 8 different languages reaching approximately 726 million
 viewers a month across India and more than 100 other countries.
 Specifically it was noted that the plaintiffs had a network of 12 sports
 channels in India, broadcasting premium sports events, apart from several
 other channels. The word „Star‟ in a particular representation with various
 star formative trademarks was recorded as being used by the plaintiffs. 83. After each one proclaimed their respective status and reputation, the
 parties, vide the Settlement resolved the trademark conflict which had
 arisen in India on account of DSPORT adopting a Single Star and the
 plaintiffs opposing the same. As a means of resolving the trademark
 dispute, the present defendants No.2 & 3 agreed to alter the "DSPORT"
 logo with the star marks, by removing the Star Device "entirely" and
 replacing it with a device of a sphere/globe Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 34 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 . Since the defendants had sought to
 register the DSPORT with a Star and the same was pending, the defendants
 had agreed to withdraw the same. However, DSPORT with Globe stood
 registered on 15th April, 2015. It is worthy of note at this juncture that the
 defendants have subsequently, also instituted suits against entities which
 used the Device of a Globe in their mark, thus asserting exclusive rights to
 their registered trademark of DSPORT with a Globe. 84. It is clear from the Settlement that both sides acknowledged the
 reputation of one another and in a spirit of resolution, the defendants had
 agreed to not use the Single Star mark in India in respect of sports
 broadcasting. Clause 1 of the Settlement Agreement dated 26 th February,
 2018 reads as under : (emphasis added) 85. Despite the above assurance, the defendants have introduced
 EUROSPORT with the star mark. It is not possible for them to say that the
 undertaking is not applicable to EUROSPORT because that was in
 connection to "DSPORT". The defendants had themselves referred to its
 EUROSPORT marks in clause 6 and had agreed not to use a „Star‟ in
 India. An argument had been advanced that the plaintiffs had agreed not to
 raise any objection to the use of the EUROSPORT marks. However, as
 rightly pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs, that was
 subject to the EUROSPORT mark not being identical with or deceptively
 similar to the Star mark of the plaintiffs in India. The defendants, by going
 against the terms of the Agreement which had once and for all settled the
 trademark disputes between them, have chosen to rake it up again. The
 adoption of the Single Star by no stretch can be considered to be a
 bonafide adoption. 86. The facts unequivocally establish that the plaintiffs have disclosed a
 prima-facie case in their favour. The continued dishonest use of the Single
 Star by the defendants would cause irreparable loss and injury to the
 plaintiffs particularly, by diluting the unique use of the word „STAR‟
 which is a created word and the „Star‟ logo, by common usage. 87. The balance of convenience lies in favour of the plaintiff as they
 have built up a strong reputation in India over a long period of time,
 whereas the defendants have just entered the market in 2017 as Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 36 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46 EUROSPORT. The defendants had in fact run their sports channel as
 DSPORT with the Globe logo for about 18 months and had protected it,
 before they had adopted the Single Star EUROSPORT name and device. 88. There is not a shred of evidence to support the claim of the
 defendants that the plaintiffs had acquiesced to the use of the Single Star
 logo by the defendants in India. They have acted promptly both when the
 DSPORT channel was introduced in India with a star which led to the
 Settlement dated 26th February, 2018 and when the Star logo was changed
 into a Globe. They have acted promptly when EUROSPORT with a Single
 Star logo was introduced by the defendants in February, 2020. The desist
 notices were sent to the defendants on 14th February, 2020 objecting to the
 use of the Single Star logo and the suit was filed on 2nd September, 2020. 89. The plaintiffs are thus entitled to interim injunction as prayed for.
 Accordingly, the application is allowed and the defendants are restrained

 from using the impugned marks ,

 , , and , or any other mark
 which is identical or deceptively similar to the Plaintiff No. 1‟s registered

 STAR Marks including the STAR Device , thereby amounting to
 infringement of trademark as also passing off till the disposal of the suit. 90. Nothing contained in this order shall be an expression on the merits
 of the case. 91. The application [I.A.7682/2020] stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 359/2020 92. Since the rectification proceedings are pending before the IP
 Division, further proceedings in this suit are stayed to be revived by either
 party after the decision in the rectification proceedings, to be listed before
 the Roster Bench. 93. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. (ASHA MENON)
 JUDGE
 SEPTEMBER 09, 2022
 ck Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 359/2020 Page 38 of 38 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:09.09.2022 12:55:46