The civil revision petition arises against the order of the Presiding
Officer, Family Court, Coimbatore on his having taken on file HMOP.NO.207 of
2002 on the application of the respondent herein and thereupon against the
issuance of summons to the revision petitioner. 2. The marriage between the petitioner  Nirmala Balagopal and the
respondent Venkatesaulu Balagopal had, admittedly, taken place at Coimbatore
30 years back, more particularly on 8.6.1972. Thereafter, they lived in
United States of America as permanent residents thereof and also obtained
green cards for their domicile there. Since there was some misunderstanding
between them, the petitioner  wife filed proceedings for separation in the
Court of State of Connecticut, United States of America and for reciprocal
obligations, they entered into a post marital agreement on 21.1.2000 whereby
the respondent  husband agreed that whether or not he resides in India, he
will not file any legal action for divorce or legal separation against wife in
India. This is found in Clause 11.2 in the above said agreement. 3. Subsequently, in the month of November 2000, both of them came to
India and began to live in a rented flat in the Race Course Road, Coimbatore.
Again, the relationship became strained and that is why the respondent 
husband preferred a petition before the Presiding Officer, Family Court,
Coimbatore for dissolution of marriage. In that petition, he contended that
although he parted away with US$ 400000 to the petitioner  wife according to
Clause 3.1 of the said agreement and although he declared the petitioner 
wife as the sole beneficiary of his accounts IRA and 401 K at United States of
America, the details of which were given in Schedule III of the said
agreement, the petitioner  wife continued to ill-treat him by showing scant
respect to him and also abused him day in and day out in vulgar language.
Despite the same, the respondent  husband was continuing to spend for family
expenses including house rent and allied charges and for the comfortable
living of the petitioner. He also met the expenses for the treatment of his
wife. 4. It is in these circumstances, the respondent husband wanted to
modify the said agreement dated 21.1.2000 as mentioned in paragraph 15 of his
petition for dissolution of marriage stating that the petitioner  wife was
not worthy of any benefits granted to her already. It was further stated that
in spite of Clause 11.2 of the said agreement regarding jurisdiction, there is
no impediment for entertaining the petition, as enforcement of statutory right
of jurisdiction cannot be nullified by agreement including the one, which was
made between the parties on 21.1.2000 in United States of America. By saying
so, he wanted the Court below to take the petition on file in spite of the
fact that there is a bar of jurisdiction in Clause 11.2 of the said agreement. 5. The whole grievance of the petitioner  wife is that now she is
living in United States of America and she cannot be made to fly at frequent
intervals to attend the proceedings before the Family Court regarding the
petition made by the respondent for dissolution of marriage. It is a fraud on
the part of her husband to have moved the Court below after giving a go-by to
Clause 11.2 of the said agreement dated 21.1.2000. 6. Mr.Sriram Panchu, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner - wife
submitted that the Court below ought not to have taken on file the petition
filed by the respondent  husband and that even after the mention made about
the said agreement regarding bar of jurisdiction contained therein and even
after including a copy of the agreement in the said petition, the Court below
ought to have returned the same either for arguments regarding maintainability
of the same in view of the bar of jurisdiction or for presentation before
proper forum. Thus, it was argued that the Court below had exceeded its
jurisdiction after assuming powers, which it did not have. 7. Even in the petition for dissolution of marriage filed by the
respondent before the Court below, the cause of action was mentioned as the
date of marriage solemnised at Coimbatore and in November 2000 from which the
parties were living at Coimbatore. The petition was taken on file and the
summons were issued on 14.5.2002. 8. According to Section 20 of the Civil Procedure Code, suits may be
instituted in a Court within local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the
commencement of suit, the defendants reside, carry on business or acquiesce in
such institution or the cause of action wholly or partly arises. 9. Under the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 , only the
District Court, within the local limits of whose original civil jurisdiction - i. the marriage was solemnised; or
 ii.the respondent at the time of presentation of the petition resides;
or
 iii.the parties to the marriage last resided together; or
 iv.the petitioner is residing at the presentation of the petition in a
case where the respondent is, at that time, residing outside the territories
to which the Act extends or has not been heard of as being alive for a period
of seven years or more, has jurisdiction to entertain the petition. 10. Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code provides
that the Courts shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of civil nature
excepting suits of which their cognizance is expressly or impliedly barred. 11. Mr.T.R.Rajagopalan, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent 
husband contended that the jurisdiction of the Courts will remain there and
what parties could agree is the option for exercise of the same. 12. No one could and would say that there was ouster of jurisdiction
of Courts at Coimbatore. What is in issue is whether after exercising the
option at the exclusion of the Indian Courts, can the respondent again come
and say that his statutory rights could not be debarred or nullified by
bi-lateral agreement. To mention again, can there not be any waiver for the
exercise of jurisdiction in Indian Courts by operation of clauses of
bi-lateral agreement is in issue. 13. In this connection, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent 
husband contended that whatever be the point on merits in favour of the
petitioner  wife, she must not have chosen to file this revision under
Article 227 of The Constitution of India and before coming to this Court by
way of revision, every statutory remedy should have been availed of. 14. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent  husband relied upon
the following judgments : 15. In the judgment reported in 2000 IV CTC 358 (supra), it has been
observed as follows : 16. In the judgment reported in 2003 II CTC 122 (supra), it has been
observed as follows : 17. The further argument of the learned Senior Counsel for the
respondent was that the respondent  husband having preferred a petition for
certain remedies before the Court below, even if it is not maintainable, it is
for the petitioner  wife to resist the case by putting forth her case of
maintainability before that Court and should obtain an order on the
preliminary point. Also, it is not as if no arguments can be made on the
question of maintainability about the preliminary point and that no order can
be passed thereon. 18. In fact, in the case of Mitsubishi France Vs. Neyveli Lignite
Corporation Limited (AIR 1985 Madras 300), there was a case of breach of
contract and when the suit for damages was filed, the defendant raised a
question of jurisdiction and a Division Bench of this Court found that in
order to avoid the ordeal of trial, the preliminary finding on the
maintainability of the suit is very much necessary. In that case, while
answering the preliminary question, Order XIV Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure
Code was also discussed and finally and it was found as follows : 19. In the case of Gopalakrishnan, V.R. Vs. Andiammal (2002 II CTC
5 13), the question of Court fee was heard as a preliminary issue. The
provisions under Section 12(2) of the Tamilnadu Court Fees and Suits Valuation
Act and Order XIV Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure Code and their interactions
were vividly dealt with. It was held that the substantial law will prevail
over the procedural code and consequently it follows that whenever the
defendant files an application requesting the Court to decide the issue of
valuation of the suit property or payment of Court fee and all questions
arising on such pleas as preliminary issues, the Court has to necessarily
consider as per the provisions of Section 12(2) of the Tamilnadu Court Fees
and Suits Valuation Act. That was the case decided only recently on 25.1.2002
by our High Court. 20. By considering the observations made in the above two case laws
i.e AIR 1985 Madras 300 (supra) and 2002 II CTC 513 (supra), I am of the view
that it is not as if no preliminary point regarding maintainability could ever
be argued and the Court is precluded from giving any initial finding thereon. 21. Therefore, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent  husband
contended that there is no much inconvenience for the petitioner  wife to
argue the case on maintainability through her counsel without even making her
presence in the Court below. On this aspect, she may not even be necessitated
to come to Coimbatore all the way from United States of America. By leaving
all these particulars, it is not for her to come before this Court for a
remedy under Article 227 of The Constitution of India, which normally would be
availed only if the Court below is guilty of grave dereliction of duty,
flagrant abuse of power and as a consequence of great injustice occurred. 22. Per contra, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner  wife
contended that even for agitating the maintainability of the petition, both
are debarred to approach the Court below as a result of the bilateral
agreement entered into between them and therefore, a direction to make her to
come to Coimbatore and argue the case on preliminary point is of no use. It
is actually against her case of assertion of the bi-lateral agreement and the
waiver of jurisdiction of Indian Courts made therein. It is on that score, a
direction to avail all statutory remedy before coming by way of revision is
also of no use. It was a fraud on the part of the respondent - husband played
not only on the petitioner  wife, but also on the Courts in India to have
preferred a petition before the Court below after having waived the
jurisdiction in India. 23. In this connection, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner 
wife relied upon a judgment in the case of Y. Narasimha Rao Vs. Y. Venkata
Lakshmi (1991 III SCC 451) wherein it was held as follows : 24. Before going further, we should know what is fraud. Lord Justice
Cotton in the case of Derry Vs. Peek (1889 14 A.C. 337) observed as follows
:- 25. Mr.Justice Watkin Williams in the case of Joliffs Vs. Baker (188
3 11 Q.B.D. 255) observed as follows : 26. Mr.Justice Maule in the case of Evans vs. Edmonds (1853 13 C.B. 777) observed as follows : 27. There are two actions on the part of the respondent  husband,
which could be alleged as fraud. The first one is entering into a post
marital agreement on 21.1.2000 with the petitioner  wife knowing fully well
that he is not going to oblige the terms thereof. The other one is having
entered into an agreement, the approach to the Court below by defying Clause
11.2 of the said agreement. 28. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner  wife did not mention
that the second action amounted to fraud. What he mentioned was that the
first action amounts to fraud. 29. If the first action should be considered as fraud, the mental
condition of the respondent  husband at the time of entering into the
agreement should be proved as polluted one containing fraudulent ideas.
In-as-much as that has not been proved, this Court is not accepting the case
of fraud projected on behalf of the petitioner. 30. After having found that the breach of Clause 11.2 of the
agreement aforesaid cannot exactly be termed as fraud on the part of the
respondent, next we have to examine whether at all the inclusion of such a
clause in the agreement was opposed to public policy. Learned Senior Counsel
for the respondent - husband contended that any contract vesting jurisdiction
only on a Court in a particular country is opposed to public policy and may
get vitiated under Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act. Per contra, learned
Senior Counsel for the petitioner argued
otherway by placing reliance on the judgments in the cases of :- 31. In the judgment reported in AIR 1954 Madras 845 (supra), it has
been held as follows : This restriction of jurisdiction only upon the Courts of seller's jurisdiction
was agitated in that case. Quoting the law laid down in the cases of Haji
Abdulla Vs. G.R.Stamp (AIR 1924 Bombay 381), Achratlal Keshavlal Mehta and
Co. Vs. Vijayan and Co. (AIR 1925 Madras 114 5), Gopaldas Vs. Harikishan
Das (AIR 1936 Allahabad 514), National Petroleum Co.Ltd., Bombay Vs. Meghraj
(AIR 1937 Nagpur 334) and Musarji Lukmani Vs. Durgadas (AIR 1946
Lahore 57 (FB)), it was further held by Abdur Rahaman,J as follows : It was also held that that part of Clause 8, which provides for institution of
a suit in the Court of the seller's jurisdiction, comes into force only on
failure of arbitration and as there had been no attempt at arbitration, that
provision cannot be relied upon. 32. Thus, it was found that such an agreement would not be contrary
to the provisions of Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act because the party
is not thereby restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in
respect of the contract by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary
tribunals, as the restriction is only partial. It was emphatically held that
such an agreement is not against the public policy. 33. In the judgment reported in AIR 1971 SC 740 (supra), it has been
held as follows : 34. In the judgment reported in AIR 1995 SC 1766 (supra), it has been
held as follows : 35. Both the latter two views were taken only in consonance with the
view taken by Rajamannar, C.J., who took such a view in the judgment reported
in AIR 1954 Madras 845 (supra) after having considered the earlier case laws
and laid the law in that case. 36. Learned counsel for the petitioner  wife also relied upon the
judgments in the cases of S.E.Asia Co.Ltd. Vs. H & M (Ind.) P.Ltd. ( AIR
1962 Calcutta 601) and U.L.Lastochkina Odessa, USSR Vs. Union of India (AIR
1976 Andhra Pradesh 103). 37. Before going into the facts of the above two case laws, this
Court wants to cull out the proposition of law relied upon therein and to cull
out from Halsbury's Laws of England, the text of Cheshire and the finding of
Burger,CJ. In Halsbury's Laws of England (Lord Simon' s III Edition),
Volume-7, under the head 'Law Chosen by Parties, it was stated as follows : 38. Cheshire has this to say in his famous treatise on private
international law at page 222 of the sixth edition: 39. In the case of Zapata Offshore Co. Vs. The 'Bremen' and
Unterweser Reederi G.M.B.H. (The 'Chaparral') (1972 II Lloyd's LR 315), at
page 318, Burger,CJ observed as follows : 40. By considering all these aspects, in the judgment reported in AIR
1962 Calcutta 601 (supra), it has been held as follows : 41. Similarly, in the judgment reported in AIR 1976 AP 103 (supra),
it has been held as follows : 42. All these case laws dealt with the contract of option of exercise
of jurisdiction in Courts at a particular country were not opposed to Sections
23 or 28 of the Indian Contract Act . Suppose the option was agreed for a
private tribunal or that option was exercised in favour of a Court, which
originally did not have any jurisdiction, then, it was held as opposed to
public policy. 43. In the case of Serajuddin and Co. Vs. Michael Golodetz (AIR
1960 Calcutta 47), the Court was called upon to consider the arbitration
agreement, which contained a clause to the effect that any dispute arising out
of the contract was to be settled by arbitration in New York according to the
laws of American Arbitration Association. It was held that to compel a party
to seek his remedy in America would practically amount to denial of justice.
It was so held upon the principle that we cannot allow the parties to exercise
their option to resort to verdict in private tribunals. This was on the
following cherished principle of Cheshire and Fifoot : 44. Lastly, in the case of Modi Entertainment Network Vs. W.S.G.
Cricket PTE Ltd. (2003 I CTC 429), the impugned clause is as follows : It was held that unless good and sufficient reasons are shown by the
appellants, the intention of the parties as evidenced by their contract must
be given effect to. 45. Hence, from the above catena of cases, it is learnt that any
bi-lateral agreement in which exercise of option of jurisdiction of Courts in
a particular country can be effectively made is not opposed to public policy
and will not be hit under Sections 23 or 28 of the Indian Contract Act . In
fact, what was opposed to public policy was indicated as option to exercise
the jurisdiction of a particular Court, which originally lacks jurisdiction
for the parties concerned or that resort to a private tribunal. 46. In this case, the option was to exclude Indian Courts. The
parties lived in Connecticut, United States of America. They are very much
having jurisdiction there and it is not as if the petitioner and the
respondent herein are going to permanently reside in India. It was also
manifestly shown that their inclination and intention was only to reside in
United States of America. Hence, there is
nothing wrong in the contract to have chosen except the Courts in India;
thereby including the Courts in United States of America. 47. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent  husband next raised a
question that despite all these contentions raised, whether it is proper to
have directly preferred this revision under Article 227 of The Constitution of
India ? His further argument was that unless it was shown that the Court
below is guilty of grave dereliction of duty and flagrant abuse of power
whereby grave injustice was caused, Article 227 of The Constitution of India
would not come into play. 48. In this connection, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent -
husband relied upon the decisions in the cases of : 49. In the judgment reported in 2002 I SCC 319 (supra), originally
the landlords filed an eviction petition under Section 11(2)(b) of the Kerala
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act both on the ground of wilful default
and bona fide need for reconstruction of the building. There was an order of
eviction only on the latter ground and eviction was negatived on the former
ground. Therefore, appeals were preferred by both parties in which eviction
was ordered on both the grounds. The tenants filed a revision petition in the
District Court and it was dismissed with a direction to the tenants to pay the
arrears of rent within two months. They did not deposit the amount. Instead,
they moved the High Court by way of revision and it was dismissed.
Thereafter, they preferred a civil revision petition under Article 227 of The
Constitution of India and simultaneously, approached the District Court for
extension of time in depositing the rent, which application was dismissed.
Again, on dismissal of the civil revision petition under Article 227 of The
Constitution of India, they deposited the amount in the District Court and
applied to vacate the eviction order and that was dismissed. Against which,
they preferred an appeal and upon dismissal of the same, they approached the
High Court where they got an order of extension of time. This was held in the
Supreme Court as wrong exercise of jurisdiction. It is in these circumstances
observed as follows : 50. The judgment reported in 2002 VIII SCC 400 (supra) dealt with a
reference under the Industrial Disputes Act . The tribunal dismissed the
reference after finding that the employee did not complete the service of 240
days and what he had completed was one day short even after taking into
account all the saturdays and sundays. The High Court admitted the
application of the employee and passed a verdict in his favour and it is in
these circumstances the Supreme Court held that it was a patent error of
exercise of power under Article 227 of The Constitution of India when the
facts do show emphatically that there was no completion of 240 days of service
and that there was also an admission on the part of the employee to that
effect. In that circumstances, it was further held that the illegality cannot
be countenanced under any circumstances. It was also held as follows : 51. The judgment reported in 2003 IV Supreme 133 (supra) involves a
case under the Prevention of Terrorism Act . The correctness of the
interlocutory order passed by the Court below was said to have been challenged
only in the appeal proceedings and interference under Article 227 of The
Constitution of India was viewed as incorrect. The finding was as follows : 52. After citing all these case laws, learned Senior Counsel for the
respondent  husband contended that as there is no grave injustice caused,
this revision petition preferred under Article 227 of The Constitution of
India is not maintainable. 53. In this connection, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner 
wife relied upon the following case laws : 54. The scope and ambit of exercise of power and jurisdiction by a
High Court under Article 227 of The Constitution of India was examined and
explained in all these case laws. In the judgment reported in 2001 VIII SCC
97 (supra), the finding is as follows : 55. In the judgment reported in 2000 III CTC 74 (supra), the
following observation was made : 56. In the judgment reported in 2002 I TLNJ 13 (supra), the tenants
originally allowed the landlord to file a rent control petition against the
original partners of the firm and in the meantime, there was an induction of
new partners by removal of the erst-while partners. The partners, who were
newly inducted, knew pretty well about the proceedings of the rent control
petition and coolly allowed it to be taken against the erst-while partners
against whom the rent control petition was continued. This was made with mala
fide intention of reserving the right to make out a second round of litigation
and it is in that circumstances the following observations were made : 57. From the case laws discussed above, it is clear
that Article 227 of The Constitution of India is available only when there is
miscarriage of justice. This Court already found that Clause 11.2 of the
bi-lateral agreement in this case is not opposed to public policy and its
proviso can clearly be given effect to in law. This Court need not direct the
petitioner  wife to appear before the Court below and argue the case of
maintainability as a preliminary point and till she avails that opportunity,
this Court cannot prevent her from coming under Article 227 of The
Constitution of India, because, in this case, there is a grave dereliction of
duty on the part of the Court below, which, even after having been put to know
the existence of the agreement ousting the jurisdiction of the Courts in
India, in defiance thereof, had taken on file the original petition and issued
summons to the petitioner and in law, it is not permissible. Therefore, this
Court, on facts, accepts the view of the petitioner  wife. 58. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent  husband may argue
that if Clause 11.2 of the said agreement is precluding the husband 
respondent to seek any remedy in Indian Courts, naturally, it will also apply
to the other party to the said agreement, namely the petitioner - wife and so,
this revision is devoid of any merits. 59. In this connection, this Court may have to say that what Clause
11.2 of the said agreement precludes is only filing of an application for
dissolution of marriage and not with respect to anything else. The revision
petitioner has not come forward with an application for dissolution of
marriage and therefore, for this revision, there is no lack of jurisdiction. 60. The revision petition is accordingly allowed setting aside the
order passed by the Court below in taking on file the application of the
respondent and issuing summons to the petitioner. No costs. Consequently,
the above CMP is dismissed. Index : Yes
Internet : Yes

To

The Family Court, Coimbatore. RS

