1 This application prays for review of decision dated

15.2.2011. 2 The facts, in brief, as they emanate from the record,

are that CWP 9372 of 2008 was filed. During the course of

arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner raised a short

contention that the Financial Commissioner had the powers of

revisional authority under the Punjab Village Common Lands

(Regulation) Act, 1961 (for short 'the Act'), in context of order Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 2 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

dated 20.11.2003 (Annexure P-3), passed by the Commissioner.

Despite the powers of revision vesting in the Financial

Commissioner, vide impugned order dated 4.4.2008 (Annexure

P-4), it has been held that remedy of revision under the Act had

already been availed of before the Commissioner and, therefore,

the revision petition could not be entertained by the Financial

Commissioner. 3 Vide the decision under review i.e. order dated

15.2.2011, following has been held (in para-29):- 4 Order dated 15.2.2011 records that there was no

challenge to the orders passed by the authorities, on facts or

merits. A limited question of jurisdiction had been raised, which

has been answered. 5 It appears that the applicant-petitioner filed Letters

Patent Appeal No. 799 of 2011. On 9.5.2011, the following

order was passed:- 6 The application for review has been filed through a

counsel, who was not the counsel for the petitioner in the writ

petition. 7 In para-7 of the application for review, it has been

pleaded that although in the writ petition, order (Annexure P-3),

passed by the Commissioner, has also been impugned, but due

to inadvertence and oversight, no ground to challenge the said

order, on merits, was pleaded in the writ petition.

8 In para-8 of the application for review, it has been

pleaded that due to a lapse in the drafting of the writ petition by

not mentioning the ground to challenge the orders passed by

the authorities on merits, although a prayer to quash was made

in the prayer clause of the writ petition, grave and manifest

injustice had been caused to the applicant-petitioner.

9 In para-9 of the application for review, it has been

said that the Gram Panchayat in the interest of justice, equity

and good conscience, be allowed to amend the writ petition

accordingly in order to add the ground of challenge to the Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 4 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

impugned orders, on merits as well and, in this regard, craves

the indulgence of the court to permit it to file a separate

application for amendment of the writ petition.

10 An application for amendment of the writ petition has

been filed along with the review application, the same being CM

7017 of 2011 in RA 210 of 2011 in CWP 9372 of 2008. In this

application, sub-paras (v) to (ix) to para-9 are sought to be

added, explaining the entries in the revenue record and

challenging the orders passed by the statutory authorities on

that basis, on merits. 11 Learned counsel for the applicant-petitioner has

vehemently argued that, in fact, challenge to the impugned

orders is contained in para-6 and ground (iv) of para-9 of the

writ petition. This court should have taken judicial notice of the

fact that said pleading had been made in the writ petition and

entertained the writ petition in challenge to the impugned

orders, on merits also. 12 On the second count, it has been argued that the

court wanted to exercise suo motu jurisdiction and test the

legality of impugned orders, on merits, as is evident from the

zimni orders passed, while giving liberty to the parties to place

on record the relevant revenue record. 13 On the third count, it has been argued that the power

of the High Court is plenary and inherent in nature under Article

226 of the Constitution of India and is not curtailed by rigid

principles of Order 47 Rule 1, Code of Civil Procedure . Rather, Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 5 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

under Section 141 , Code of Civil Procedure, applicability of the

provisions of the Code have been excluded, so far as a writ

petition is concerned. 14 In regard to scope of review, learned counsel for the

applicant-petitioner has relied on judgments of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India rendered in Shivdeo Singh and others v.

State of Punjab and others , AIR 1963 Supreme Court 1909, Puran Singh and others v. State of Punjab and others , (1996) 2

Supreme Court Cases 205, Surya Dev Rai v. Ram Chander Rai

and others , (2003) 6 Supreme Court Cases 675, and Aribam

Tuleshwar Sharma v. Aribam Pishak Sharma and others , AIR

1979 Supreme Court 1047. 15 Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel for non-

applicant/respondents No.13 and 14, has argued that no

argument in regard to merit in the impugned orders was

addressed and, therefore, the same has not been dealt with.

The order under review is clear in that regard and, therefore, the

learned counsel for the applicant-petitioner cannot argue

otherwise. 16 In the context of pleadings in the writ petition, it has

been argued that challenge is only in regard to jurisdiction of

Financial Commissioner to entertain the revision petition, in law,

and not on merits of the impugned orders. It has been pointed

out that in the writ petition, no proper foundation was laid, nor

any ground urged to challenge the order (Annexure P-3), passed

by the Commissioner. In this regard, reference has been made Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 6 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

to paras 7 to 9 of the application for review, to say that it is the

admitted case of the applicant-petitioner that no challenge to

the impugned orders, on merits, had been made in the writ

petition and, therefore, it does not lie with the applicant-

petitioner to argue that challenge was made, on merits, also.

17 It has been pointed out that power to review is there,

however, limitations have been provided thereto. Without

proper foundation in the writ petition, this court could not have

adjudicated on the merits of the impugned orders.

18 It has been contended, in the context of zimni orders,

that this court, at no point in time, took suo motu action. Only

liberty was given to the parties to place documents on record.

The applicant-petitioner should have filed an application for

amendment in the writ petition along with the documents,

during the period when the writ petition was pending. At the

stage of review, the applicant-petitioner cannot seek review on

the basis of amendment application and accompanying

documents. 19 It has been argued that the respondents are required

to be given an opportunity to oppose the pleadings. No

pleading in challenge to the orders, on merits, having been filed,

the respondents had no occasion to respond thereto. In such

circumstances also, the review application is misconceived.

20 On legal issues,it has been argued that the Court has

to go by the case pleaded by the parties and issues raised

therefrom. If a party omits to raise a foundation to a claim, Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 7 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

review jurisdiction cannot come to the aid of such a party.

21 Learned counsel for non-applicant/respondents No.13

and 14 has relied on judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India rendered in Haridas Das v. Usha Rani Banik , (2006) 4

Supreme Court Cases 78, S.N.S. (Minerals) Ltd. v. Union of India ,

(2007) 12 Supreme Court Cases 132 and Trojan & Co. Ltd. v.

RM. N.N. Nagappa Chettiar , 1953 Supreme Court Reports 789.

22 I have considered the contentions of the learned

counsel for the parties. 23 So as to consider the judgments cited by the learned

counsel for the applicant-petitioner, in Shivdeo Singh 's case

(supra), it has been held that there is nothing in Article 226 of

the Constitution of India to preclude a High Court from

exercising the power of review which inheres in every court of

plenary jurisdiction to prevent miscarriage of justice or to

correct grave and palpable errors committed by it.

24 The judgment would have no application to the facts

of the case, because a case is to be seen and perceived in

context of its pleadings and arguments addressed in context of

pleadings. The relevant pleadings are sought to be brought on

record by way of the review application and amendment in the

writ petition, which in my considered opinion, cannot be

considered for review of the decision. 25 In Puran Singh 's case (supra), it has been held that

while dealing with a writ, the powers of High Court cannot be

limited by procedural provisions prescribed in the Code. The Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 8 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

High Court should be left to adopt its own procedure to grant

relief to the persons concerned. 26 In Puran Singh 's case (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court of India was dealing with an issue arising out of an order

passed under Order 22 of the Code of Civil Procedure . The issue

raised was that the appellants had not taken any steps to bring

on record the legal representatives of the deceased, who was

respondent to the writ petition and, therefore, the writ petition

had abated. The judgment has been cited out of context. 27 In Surya Dev Rai 's case (supra), it has been held that

power under Article 227 is administrative as well as judicial.

The paramount consideration behind vesting such wide power of

superintendence in the High Court is paving the path of justice

and removing any obstacles therein. The power is not subject to

those technicalities of procedure or traditional fetters which are

to be found in certiorari jurisdiction. 28 The judgment will not come to the aid of the

applicant-petitioner for the simple reason that the petition had

been filed without relevant pleadings. The powers are required

to be exercised by a High Court in writ jurisdiction, on the basis

of pleadings and relief claimed. The necessary exercise having

not been done by the applicant-petitioner, this court could not

make out a case for the applicant-petitioner that had not been

pleaded or argued. 29 Likewise, the judgment rendered in Aribam

Tuleshwar Sharma 's case (supra), does not help the case of the Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 9 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

applicant-petitioner because the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India, while relying on Shivdeo Singh 's case (supra), has held

that there are definitive limits to the exercise of the power of

review. 30 Now, to deal with the cases cited on behalf of the

respondent, in the case of Haridas Das (supra), the law has been

laid to the effect that there is nothing in Article 226 of the

Constitution to preclude the High Court from exercising the

power of review which inheres in every court of plenary

jurisdiction to prevent miscarriage of justice or to correct grave

and palpable errors committed by it. It has further been held

that there are definitive limits to the exercise of the power of

review. The power of review may be exercised on the discovery

of new and important matter or evidence which, after the

exercise of due diligence was not within the knowledge of the

person seeking the review or could not be produced by him at

the time when the order was made; it may be exercised where

some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record is

found; it may also be exercised on any analogous ground. But,

it may not be exercised on the ground that the decision was

erroneous on merits. 31 Reliance has been placed on the judgment in Aribam

Tuleshwar Sharma 's case (supra) to hold that there are

definitive limits to the exercise of power of review. Likewise,

reliance has been placed on Shivdeo Singh 's case (supra), in the

same context. Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

32 In the case of S.N.S. (Minerals) Ltd. (supra), judgment

of Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court was

challenged, vide which the review application filed by the

appellants had been dismissed. The writ petition filed for

quashing orders passed by the Superintendent (Preventive),

Central Excise, Indore, was disposed of vide order dated

3.3.1994. During the pendency of the petition, orders were

passed quantifying the liability of appellant No.1 for imposition

of penalty. These orders were challenged in the writ petition by

amending the same. The High Court quashed the orders so far

as they related to imposition of penalty. Questioning the

correctness of the order, an appeal was carried before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, which was disposed of vide

order dated 16.4.2002. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had

not interfered with the order of the High Court on one issue.

However, on another issue, it was recorded that, in case, the

High Court had not answered an argument that had been

advanced before it, the party should approach the High Court in

review. 33 Review application was, accordingly, filed before the

High Court, taking the stand that the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India had permitted filing of a review application. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India dismissed the appeal while holding that

from a reading of the order of the High Court and the counter-

affidavit filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, no

such argument was advanced and, therefore, it was not Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 11 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

considered to be a fit case where any interference was called

for, considering the limited scope of review. In this context, the

scope of review has been considered in context of judgment

rendered in the case of Haridas Das (supra). 34 In the case of Trojan & Co. Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India has held that it is well settled that the

decision of a case cannot be based on ground outside the

pleadings of the parties and it is the case pleaded that has to be

found. Without an amendment of the plaint the court was not

entitled to grant the relief not asked for and no prayer was ever

made to amend the plaint so as to incorporate in it an

alternative case. 35 Before adverting to the issue of review of the

decision, it is imperative to examine as to what is a writ petition.

36 In Bharat Singh and others v. State of Haryana and

others , AIR 1988 Supreme Court 2181(1), the following has been

held (in para-13) :- 37 In State of West Bengal and another v. West Bengal

Registration Copywriters Association and another , (2009) 14

Supreme Court Cases 132, in para-75, it has been held that "A

writ petitioner has to stand on his own legs and has to rely on

the pleadings in the writ petition". Having held thus, in para-76,

the following has been held:- 38 In para-83, it has been held that "There could be no

doubt about the High Court's power to mould the relief.

However, even in its plenary jurisdiction, while moulding the

relief, there must be a plea to support such a relief. The relief

granted by the High Court in this case is extraordinarily beyond

the jurisdiction of the High Court and has no nucleus in the writ

petitions or in the original applications".

39 In Sadananda Halo and others v. Momtaz AliSheikh

and others , (2008) 4 Supreme Court Cases 619, it has been held

as under (in para-58):- 40 The following has been concluded in para-65

(relevant portion) of the report:- 41 In Secretary to the Govt. and another v. M. Senthil

Kumar , (2005) 3 Supreme Court Cases 451, in paras 9 and 10, it

has been held as under:- Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M) 10. In State of Maharashtra v. Jalgaon
 Municipal Council , {(2003) 9 SCC 731} this Court at
 SCC p. 758, para 33 observed as under : 42 In Rani Laxmibai Kshetriya, Gramin Bank v. Chand

Behari Kapoor and others , (1998) 7 Supreme Court Cases 469,

the following has been held in para-8 (relevant portion):- 43 In V.K. Majotra v. Union of India , (2003) 8 Supreme

Court Cases 40, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held (in

para-8) to the effect that the writ courts would be well advised

to decide the petitions on the points raised in the petition and if

in a rare case keeping in view the facts and circumstances of

the case any additional points are to be raised then the

concerned and affected parties should be put to notice on the

additional points to satisfy the principles of natural justice. The

parties cannot be taken by surprise. 44 Considering the law, as laid down above, it transpires Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 16 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

that a civil writ petition is a suit which is required to be

supplemented with the evidence on which the petitioner

chooses to rely, in view of its nature. Not only the facts but also

the evidence in proof of such facts have to be pleaded and

documents annexed in case of a writ petition. When a writ

petitioner raises a point of law which is required to be

substantiated by facts, he must plead and prove such facts by

evidence which must appear from the writ petition and

accompanying documents. If he is a respondent, the facts

asserted are required to be proved from the written

statement/counter affidavit and supporting documents. If the

facts are not pleaded or the evidence in support of such facts is

not annexed to the writ petition or to the written

statement/counter affidavit, as the case may be, the Court will

not entertain the point. 45 Pleadings include documents placed on record as

annexures. When a document is placed on record along with a

writ petition, it is explained in the body of the writ petition in

regard to its relevance and as to why the said document has

been placed on record and what ground of challenge emerges

therefrom. The respondent thereby is given an opportunity to

respond to the pleadings in the writ petition and appended

annexures, so as to clarify his stand and point of view.

46 This Court in CWP No.13532 of 2008 ( Hira Lal and

another v. State of Punjab and others ) decided on 10.9.2010,

CWP 6164 of 2011 ( Avtar Singh v. State of Punjab and others ) Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 17 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

decided on 6.4.2011, and Review Application No.282 of 2011 in

CWP No.16375 of 2010 ( Jaswant Singh and others v. The State

of Punjab and others ) decided on 1.8.2011, has held to the

above effect. 47 A Division Bench of this Court, while dealing with

Review Application No.174 of 2005 in CWP 17259 of 2004

( Mohinder Pal Bali v. Punjab State Electricity Board, Patiala and

others ), decided on 5.8.2005, in regard to the scope of

interference in review application, has held in the following

terms:- Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

 (Emphasis Supplied). Therefore, even if the counsel for the petitioner
 was of the opinion that our order dated 18.7.2005
 was erroneous, the same ought to have been
 challenged by adopting the normal remedy of appeal.
 There were no justifiable grounds for filing the
 Review Petition." 48 The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Daman Singh

and others v. State of Punjab and others , (1985) 2 Supreme

Court Cases 670, has held (in para-13, relevant portion) in the

following terms:- 49 In Tamil Nadu Electricity Board and another v. N. Raju

Reddiar and another , AIR 1997 Supreme Court 1005, the

following has been held:- 50 Even in the present case, the counsel, through whom

the review application has been filed, was not the counsel, who

drafted the writ petition or addressed arguments.

51 From the above, it transpires that the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in Daman Singh 's case (supra), has held

that no party or counsel is entitled to make a grievance that

the grounds not argued were not considered. If indeed any Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 21 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

ground which was argued was not considered, it should be open

to the party aggrieved to draw the attention of the court

making the order to it by filing a proper application for review or

clarification. 52 A perusal of the pleadings in the writ petition, in the

present case, clearly indicate that the writ petition was filed only

in context of jurisdiction of the Financial Commissioner in

entertaining the second revision petition. The pleadings are in

context of interpretation of Sections 13-A and 13-AA of the Act.

There is no challenge to the orders of Commissioner or Financial

Commissioner, on merits. 53 So far as zimni orders are concerned, liberty was

indeed given to the petitioner to place on record documents,

vide order dated 26.5.2008. An application (CM 14273 of 2010

in CWP 9372 of 2008) was filed for permission to place on

record revenue record as Annexures P-6 to P-9. The application

was allowed vide order dated 5.10.2010. The application

neither explains the documents nor shows the reason for

reliance thereupon. Merely because the documents were

brought on record, would not be sufficient to satisfy the

principles of natural justice, which require that the respondents

are put to notice of the specific stand of the petitioner in

challenge to orders (Annexures P-3 and P-4).

54 The arguments addressed by the counsel then

appearing for the writ petitioner have been dealt with in the

decision under review. The court, merely because the Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 22 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

documents had been placed on record, could not make out a

case for the petitioner, because no relevant facts in relation to

the documents were pleaded in the writ petition. No relevant

notice of the said stand was given to the respondents.

55 The very fact that the writ petition is sought to be

amended by way of the applications accompanying the review

application, so as to add grounds in challenge to the impugned

orders, on merits, indicates the conduct of the applicant-

petitioner. During the period when the petition was pending, no

such application for amendment was filed. It appears that the

applicant-petitioner was very confident of the legal ground in

relation to jurisdiction and, therefore, no such steps, at the

relevant time were taken. In my considered opinion, while

taking into account the amendment sought to be brought in the

writ petition, the application for review cannot be allowed.

Since the writ petition could not have been allowed, for lack of

pleadings, surely, such a ground cannot be made a ground for

review of the decision rendered on the limited arguments

addressed on the available pleadings. 56 There must be an end to every lis. All decisions are

rendered in context of arguments addressed, which are required

to be in context of pleadings. In the case in hand, the

arguments addressed have been dealt with and decision

rendered. A review is to be filed in the context of the decision.

A decision cannot be reviewed while taking into account

amendment sought in the main writ petition by way of addition Review Application No. 210 of 2011 in 23 Civil Writ Petition No.9372 of 2008 (O&M)

of ground(s) in challenge to the impugned order(s). If such a

course is allowed, there shall be no end to a lis. The value of

cause has to be seen by the court in context of pleadings and

arguments addressed. Justice is delivered by way of rendering

decisions and the same cannot be dehors the pleadings. This

court cannot in a writ petition which is not in public interest,

embark upon inquiry and decide. 57 The applicant-petitioner has not been able to show

any reason for review, in terms of law governing scope of

review, in context of the decision rendered in writ jurisdiction.

58 The review application is, accordingly, dismissed. 2. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest?