SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is this job legit to do?
DATE: 2022-12-17
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/zoba07/is_this_job_legit_to_do/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am gonna explain what I am asking... 

Somedays ago I applied for multiple jobs for Work From Home (and obviously data entry) and I knew that most of them are fake, or they scam by asking for money first. So I ignored everyone of them and had a few response where they didn't ask for money first but details of mine. 

When I was getting many response which certainly involve money first, I didn't reply them. I got response on message and then I whatsApp the person who was hiring. But on one response I asked if they need registration fee, they denied that it's zero. She asked for my Aadhar and Email Id. She then just went offline and after an hour I thought it was scam so I delete my aadhar pics I sent to her. After some minutes, she replied with please and asked for the aadhar again because it takes time for registration. 

Then after registration and all, I got an email from their company and also the website they had. I clicked link on the email and it was login page. I logged in with my email and pass (given by her) and had my signature taken on the website and also agreement was downloaded (had my name and working period along with what work I was gonna do). I selected the date 20 Dec after my exams were over. I also visited the website it seem legit (not a very much of high UI webpage).

Now main part about job, the job was to fill 700 forms and per form I would get ₹25. The time period was 6 days to complete and submit 700 forms. The total salary after six days would be around ₹17k (I know it sounds bullshit even to me). 

 I didn't have any incident like this before when I used to apply to job. Also, today she messaged me to remind about 20 Dec as a job day. 

Look, I need honest answers what do you think about it. I know that these wfh jobs are mostly scam and all, but I haven't got trapped in it until now. Should I do the job Or not?