The Indian government has declined to provide information on why it removed a controversial provision from its submissions to a United Nations committee deliberating an international cybercrime treaty last year. India had suggested criminalising online communications containing information that is “grossly offensive or has menacing character” last May. The provision was removed in a revised document submitted in August.

Responding to an RTI filed by MediaNama , the Ministry of External Affairs refused to provide non-confidential documents and communications on the decision. Among other grounds cited in the reply, disclosure could harm India’s security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relations with foreign States or lead to incitement of an offence.

What happened? : In its submissions to the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee deliberating an international treaty on cybercrime last May, India inserted a provision that was eerily similar to Section 66A of its very own Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act).

“4(d) Sending offensive messages through communication service, etc:

Each State party shall adopt such legislative and other measures as are necessary to establish as an offence under its domestic law, if any person sends, by means of a computer resource or a communication device:

(a)  Any information that is grossly offensive or has a menacing character;” — India’s May submissions to the UN Ad Hoc Committee

The catch : Section 66A had been struck down by the Supreme Court of India in 2015 for posing unreasonable restrictions on free speech. The provision’s broad wording was at times famously used by powerful figures to silence critique of them online. As the Supreme Court noted while striking down the “unconstitutionally vague” provision in the landmark Shreya Singhal judgment, “‘governments come and governments go, the law persists (..) 66A is invalid and it cannot be saved even if the government says it won’t abuse the law”.

“66A Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service, etc. -Any person who sends, by means of a computer resource or a communication device,-

India’s proposal didn’t address the gaps in Section 66A highlighted by the Supreme Court. It reproduced parts of the provision instead. Nigeria, Luxembourg, Georgia, El Salvador, the European Union, and the United Kingdom reportedly opposed it, with some noting that it may impact free speech in their countries. The government subsequently submitted a revised provision in the August session of the Ad Hoc Committee last year.

What did we ask? : MediaNama asked for copies of the decision to remove the Section 66A-like provision from the submissions. Copies of non-confidential internal communications and documents between the Indian delegation at the Committee, other Committee members, and the Ministry of External Affairs on the decision to remove the provision were also requested. The government declined to provide this information citing the following exemptions under Section 8(1) of the Right To Information Act, 2005 :

“(a) information, disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence;

(d) information including commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property, the disclosure of which would harm the competitive position of a third party, unless the competent authority is satisfied that larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information;

(e) information available to a person in his fiduciary relationship, unless the competent authority is satisfied that the larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information;

(f) information received in confidence from foreign Government.”

Why does it matter? As experts speaking to MediaNama last year noted, striking down Section 66A may not have been in the government’s best interests. The effort to reintroduce it internationally may have ulterior motives. If it becomes part of an international treaty that India ratifies, the government could have an excuse to reintroduce the law domestically. Some further questioned whether bringing Section 66A back home would be possible at all. Any law drafted with this provision would be immediately challenged by the Shreya Singhal judgement and the Constitution. Given that India’s Section 66A proposal at the UN led to these sorts of dead ends, “the intent..remains unclear,” experts observed.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event