SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Airtel in India cheating with customers and what we should do.
DATE: 2015-07-18
SCORE: 147
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3dog61/airtel_in_india_cheating_with_customers_and_what/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been Airtel user for quite sometime, but for past 5 months I am seeing crazy deductions made by Airtel in data and voice accounts.

Here's a story: Story #1

One day I recharged my phone voice account and received ~220 Rs. After I installed and uninstalled MyAirtel app, I found that they have reduced my balance to 0. Just like that.

I called them up.

Now, imagine an 8 minute wait on phone with hideous wait music on.

After a while a guy picks and tells me that I do not belong to that circle and I have to call the different circle mobile number. This would cost me he told me after I asked.

Anyway like a simmering pot what option do I have. I have to call that number.

I called that number and had to listen to bad wait music again, after I went through whole menu to find how to talk to a representative. Finally! Calls get through to a representative with a heavy accent in weak English skills.

Anyway, I told him my problem.

I told him that I had recharged my data account and my voice account and after almost no use, my data account is standing but my voice account balance is zero. Why?

Here's the answer he gave. "It's because you are using multiple applications simultaneously"

I swear to God I lost my balance for a while. It was like someone put hot wax on my head while beating my head to ground with a jackhammer.

I let few seconds pass. After few seconds are gone in silence. "What do you mean?"

"Sir, you are using network and sometimes you don't close an app and go to other app."

Well that's how smartphone work I thought in my head. So, I asked, "What does that have to do with my voice account balance?"

"Sir, sometimes you use 20 MBs on internet on one app and use 5 MBs on internet on other app. But you only have 10 MBs. Then you go to first app and close it and close internet."

My shit is loose in every direction, all 360 degrees.

"Then you had 10 MBs but used 20 MBs so we deduct Ruppees from your account"

Again, all the neurons are firing and back firing through axons and dendrites. Fucking crazy.

I muster all the strength to not yell at the guy, "Then why do I have internet balance left."

"Sir it's because you are using multiple applications in back". As soon as he said this, I gave him a lecture on how internet works, how applications work and how android is based on linux kernel and how Linux kernel deals with network packets. Suffice it so say, I was very angry.

A lot more haggling and he agreed to reimburse me Rs 200. Just like that. With no explanation provided why or how he reached this conclusion. But whatever, I told him that I am not angry at him personally but at what he represents: Airtel's corrupt policy.

He told me to wait for 1 hour and restart my phone and I'll receive my balance. I got it after 2 hours or so.

This was this April(April 2015) after this happened https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/31ykxj/flipkart_and_airtel_are_fucking_with_your/

Story #2.

I was downloading StackOverFlow's database over torrent, when this crazy thing happened. I downloaded and uploaded 300 MBs, when my notification told me that I have consumed 700 MBs.

Crazy. Inexplicable.

Then I started noticing internet consumption. Airtel was charging more on every transaction. I connected through Airtel. Downloaded one single wallpaper whose link was already opened. Wallpaper size was exactly 1 MB. Closed the connection. Still data usage: 2.8 MBs. You can try such things too. Tell me if your data packs are exhausting pretty easily and early too.

May be I am data roaming. But that's not an explanation.

Story #3

Today (18th July 2015 2:00 AM), I tried to send data via NFC on two of my phones of different companies. Google Play would come up. So I went online and then tried NFC. Google play on OnePlus One tells me that I cannot install Asus Gallery App as that app is not compatible. Other than that there's is lollipop download queued in background. I close the connection in less than a minute.

Guess the fuck what?

My internet balance of around 500 MiBs, my voice account balance of ~188 Rs. all gone. Gone as the wife was in 'Gone Girl'. No trace. Amazingly, due a being a great service provider Airtel loans me Rs. 10 almost instantly. No hiccups there. Didn't ask, still got it.

So, learning from past experience, I tried installing an call recorder app. Exactly 3.70 MiBs download on Google Play: Automatic Call Recorder from Appliqato.

Mid-way guess the fuck what again. I mean how dumb I am. Trying to use same internet connection that just burned me? What a slap right in the middle of the cheek and rightly so.

I downloaded 0.89 MiB and Airtel tells me that my consumption of 9.76 MBs are over and so are loan Rs. 10.

What sort of purgatory am I in? What explains all this shit that Airtel hurls at it's users. Alas the story continues.

So, I finished download using other network on other phone via WiFi hotspot. Called Airtel. Know this, it's 2:30-ish in the morning and I am wide awake; feeling like an investigative journalist; investigative: I am alert; they are being murdered in India in numbers these days: James Bond like. For next 10 minutes, I am Assange.

Anyway, Call 123. Nothing. Call 121. Going through pain of hearing machines trying to talk like human again and again: nothing happens. After a few minutes: dial 9 to talk to representative. Finally.

As soon as I press 9. "You do not have balance to complete this call."

After 'Tarey Jameen Par' night, tonight is the night I almost cried.

After thinking about what to do next for a full 2 minutes. Here I am, typing the shit as it happened to me, shit that got stuck, shit that I cared to tell you about.

Now, here's the call of action. If you have been duped by Airtel India in such manner, please let me know. I am going to file a case against Airtel as soon as I find 10000 current or Ex Airtel consumers. I do not know if I can file in such case in Supreme Court and what bases apply here. But a wide spread cheating, a national level cheating will turn it into a corruption case. I think misuse of trust (If such a thing exists), misappropriation of client money (If exists and/or applicable), Fraud, National level Scam will fit this case. I think because I do not know.

If you want to help here are few areas and ways:

General help 1. Spread the message. 2. Take snapshots and accurate measures of how Airtel is swindling your account balances.

Technical help 1. Write an app that tracks the data and voice consumption. I would have done, but I have no clue how Android apps deal with netfilter driver or other basic information that I require to build such an app. 2. A tracking web site that records the number of people and amount people lost using Airtel services. - - A long shot since it will be user reported, but if we can get ballpark it'd enough.

Legal help 1. Write to Supreme Court 2. Talk to your relatives who deal with law of the land.

These are what I can think of right now. I'll begin with spreading the news first. This is my story; but in past 2 decades on Earth, I have come to believe that I am not alone or unique.