Truecaller has launched Scamfeed, its new feature that will allow users to “report, discuss and stay informed” about the latest scams as they come to light, the company announced in a press release on April 29. The caller identification platform said that the feature is currently live in India, and will gradually roll out in other countries in the coming months. However, since it will rely on user-generated content for reporting new scams, concerns regarding the legitimacy of the claims and posts on Scamfeed persist.

The platform’s new feature will allow users to “stay ahead of fraudsters and learn from each other” by reporting and discussing new online scams through posts and comments. It will let users anonymously post “all stories” on the app about phishing scams, impersonation, dating app scams, and financial fraud.

Truecaller calls it a “digital support network” that will serve as an “early warning system” enabled by victims of scams and for users who “narrowly avoided” such online frauds. It will allow people to verify if other users on Scamfeed have reported similar suspicious messages or calls. As per the press release, “[Users can] learn the red flags associated with new fraud types, and gain confidence in identifying and ignoring malicious attempts.” They can also share the posts and alerts on other social media platforms.

The question that now arises is: How is Truecaller making sure that bad actors are not misusing its new feature? For example, Company X wants to thwart a business deal or manipulate customers of its competitor, Company Y. To do this, Company X can potentially ask its employees to spam the Truecaller’s Scamfeed feature with claims that it is scamming people. This can lead customers or business partners of Company Y to discontinue their dealings with it.

In this context, Hitesh Raj Bhagat, Global Head of Corporate Communications at Truecaller, told MediaNama, “We are aware that there might be people who will try to misuse the [Scamfeed] feature to either post objectionable content, political content, or incite emotions. To address this, a level of moderation is needed. We will be verifying the content on our feed through automation, with the help of keywords, and also through real people – moderators.”

Going into further detail, Tonmoy Goswami, Product Director of New Initiatives at Truecaller, told MediaNama, “Our approach isn’t just about looking at one individual post in isolation. We use a combination of automated tools and human review specifically designed to look for patterns that might signal someone trying to game the system or post in bad faith. This includes looking out for things like coordinated posting activity targeting a specific entity, sudden spikes in unusual reports, or content that clearly violates our community guidelines, which prohibit harassment, defamation, and posting deliberately false information to harm someone.”

He added that if a series of posts looks like a coordinated attack and is not genuine individual experiences with scams, the platform’s systems and moderators have been trained to flag and review the same.

Goswami said that a post is first reviewed against the company’s community guidelines “before it goes live” on Scamfeed. For comments, Truecaller will take a mixed approach. “We use automated tools that are running constantly to catch obvious violations like spam or prohibited language even before it goes live. But beyond the automated checks, our human moderators are also on the lookout for relevance, safety, and respect, and regularly remove comments that don’t meet them,” he told MediaNama.

Truecaller will not be verifying each post made by a user about a scam. Goswami said, “Our main goal isn’t to act like an investigative body trying to verify every single detail of each person’s story – that wouldn’t be feasible and isn’t the core purpose. Instead, our focus is on ensuring the post is relevant to the community.” He claims that the new feature will help “everyone spot emerging trends and stay vigilant” when multiple people post similar incidents, even if Truecaller is not verifying the said claims individually.

This is not the first time a tech company has tried to let people flag content online. On April 4, 2024, X (formerly Twitter) announced the launch of Community Notes for Indian users. The microblossing platform’s feature works as a measure to counter misinformation by asking “contributors” to leave notes on published posts and rate the most helpful response. After the announcement, MediaNama raised its concerns regarding the efficacy of X’s Community Notes in India, especially during elections.

Welcome new contributors in 🇮🇳India 👋 Our first contributors are joining today, and we’ll be expanding over time. As always, we’ll monitor quality to ensure that notes are found helpful by people from different points of view. Community Notes now has contributors in 69…

Among many concerns about the feature, one was regarding the rating system based on helpfulness and popularity of the note. The IT cells of political parties in India can potentially misuse this feature. A user can easily post a disruptive note, and the online trolls can potentially boost it.

Another concern about the feature was regarding the fact-check system used for countering misinformation. While users may leave opposing points of view, they could all potentially be false. Hence, it does not help in flagging misinformation or fake news that is making rounds online. Such attempts, while many consider them convenient, could potentially do more harm than good.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event