1. Vide this judgment, I shall dispose of the aforementioned complaint case as
 filed by the complainant, Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. (hereinafter
 referred to as the complainant) against accused Ajay Kumar, (hereinafter
 referred to as the accused). The present complaint has been filed against the
 accused u/s 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to
 as the NI Act ). 2. The brief facts as alleged by the complainant company in the complaint are
 that the complainant company is engaged in the business of finance as a non-
 banking financial company and provides loan facilities to various customers. 3. At the request of the accused, the complainant company provided a loan
 facility of Rs. 55,000/- for the purchase/refinance of a scooter for the

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 accused. For the said loan, the complainant company and the accused
 executed a loan agreement vide loan account no. CDDIGTW1901300007,
 under which the accused agreed to repay the loan amount along with interest
 in 18 monthly installments of Rs. 3,628/- each. 4. Towards discharge of his liability, the accused issued a cheque in question
 bearing no. 078437, dated 11-03-2020, for a sum of Rs. 56,939.00, drawn on
 Syndicate Bank, Shahdara, and assured that the cheque would be honoured
 upon presentation. 5. When the complainant company deposited the said cheque with its banker,
 Union Bank of India, Vikas Puri Branch, Delhi, it was returned unpaid vide
 memo dated 11-03-2020, with the remarks "funds insufficient". 6. Thereafter, complainant served a Legal Demand Notice dated 03.08.2020
 upon the accused through speed post asking accused to repay the loan
 amount within 15 days from the receipt of the notice. Thereafter, the
 complainant filed the present complaint case with the submission that
 accused person be summoned, tried and punished according to law. 7. In order to prove his case, complainant in the pre-summoning evidence,
 examined CW1 by way of affidavit Ex. CW1/A and relied upon following
 documents : 8. Upon appreciation of pre-summoning evidence and upon finding prima facie
 case against the accused, the accused was summoned for an offence
 punishable under section 138 NI Act. 9. Thereafter, Notice u/s 251 Cr.PC was framed against the accused on

 23.11.2021 to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Accused stated
 that around four years ago, he had sought a loan of Rs. 30,000/- for
 financing the purchase of a Honda Aviator. He has already repaid the entire
 loan to the complainant company and received the NOC from the
 complainant company. Thereafter, in the year 2019, he received a phone call
 from the complainant company wherein they stated that he owed them a sum
 of Rs. 55,000/-, to which he responded that he owed no such amount to
 them. For clarification, he visited their office, where he was shocked to find
 that they had photocopies of his Aadhaar card and PAN card without his
 photographs and containing an incorrect address. Thereafter, he filed a
 complaint against the complainant company at PS Mandawali stating that
 they had forged his Aadhaar and PAN card for the purpose of KYC.
 Accused stated that he knows the complainant. He denied his signature and
 filling particulars on the cheque in question. He admitted receipt of legal
 demand notice from complainant. CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics 10.Thereafter, the application u/s 145(2) NI Act made by the counsel for
 accused and the same was allowed on 25.08.2022, and complainant was
 cross examined by his counsel on 19.07.2023 and CE was closed on
 19.07.2023. 11.The complainant in his post summoning evidences adopted his pre-
 summoning evidence and further relied upon the documents mentioned in
 his pre-summoning evidence. He was cross examined by the defence
 counsel. Cross Examination of the AR for the complainant 12. During cross-examination, CW1/ AR stated that he has no information
 whether the accused had taken any loan prior to the loan in question. He
 stated that the accused had taken the loan in the year 2019. He has no
 knowledge whether the accused had submitted any application for availing
 the loan or not. He stated that it is correct that he has full knowledge of FIR
 No. 83/2023 dated 27.01.2023. Vol. In this FIR, the allegations were not
 against the complainant company but were regarding many other companies.
 He further stated that it is correct that all the documents such as the PAN
 Card, Aadhaar Card, banking details and the loan agreement are on record.
 Vol. The address of the accused is also correctly mentioned. He stated that
 the photograph on the Aadhaar Card of the accused was blurred and for that
 reason he could not identify him. He stated that he cannot tell the vehicle
 details for which the loan in question was taken by the accused. Vol. He can

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 file the documents on the NDOH. He has no information whether any award
 was passed in respect of the loan in question. He denied the suggestion that
 the complainant company has misused the documents of the accused. He
 further stated that he cannot say whether the signatures on the documents on
 record are of the accused, as the documents were not signed in his presence.
 He stated that the complainant company verifies the account documents and
 other details of the drawer before sanctioning the loan. He denied the
 suggestion that he is deposing falsely. 13.Thereafter, matter was listed for recording of statement u/s 313 Cr.PC. 14. Statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.PC was recorded on 04.11.2023. The

 accused denied the allegations. The accused stated that he has never issued
 the cheque in question in favour of the complainant. He stated that in the
 year 2016, he had financed a scooty through the complainant, for which he
 had also received an NOC. He had cleared the entire payment; however,
 after two years, he received a call alleging that he had not repaid the loan.
 He then visited the office of the complainant, where he came to know that on
 their computer system, a profile of some other person had been created using
 his Aadhaar card, PAN number and other personal details, but without his
 photograph and signatures, for which he had also lodged an FIR. He stated
 that the complainant has committed fraud with him. He denied his signature
 as well as filling particulars on the cheque in question. He admitted receipt
 of legal demand notice. CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics 15.Thereafter, accused examined himself as DW1 on 22.04.2024. He was cross
 examined on 19.03.2025 and DE was closed on 19.03.2025. Examination and cross examination of the DW1/ Accused 16. DW1/Accused deposed that the complainant company has misused his

 documents, namely his Aadhaar Card and PAN Card. He stated that the
 complainant company had changed his address and his photograph in his
 Aadhaar Card and PAN Card. He further stated that in the year 2016, he had
 financed one scooty and for that purpose he had issued a cheque of SBI
 Bank, the payment of which had already been cleared, and the complainant
 company had issued him an NOC for the same. He stated that in the year
 2018, he received a call from the complainant company informing him that a
 loan amounting to Rs. 55,000/- had been disbursed in his favour, and it was
 then that he came to know about the misuse of his documents. He stated that
 the cheque in question is not his and that it does not pertain to his account, as
 he has no account in that bank. He further stated that when he visited the
 Syndicate Bank branch (the bank to which the cheque in question pertains),
 he came to know that an account had been opened in his name; however, the
 photograph, signature, address and nominee associated with the account
 were not his. He stated that he had also filed an application under Section
 156(3) Cr.P.C., which is Ex. DW1/1, and thereafter his FIR was registered,
 which is Mark D. DW1 brought the report filed by the IO, which is Ex.
 DW1/2 (colly). During Cross-examination DW1/Accused stated that it is correct that he
 filed the case in which the report Ex. DW1/2 (colly) has been filed after the

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 filing of the present matter. He admitted that he has not filed any case
 against Syndicate Bank. Vol. He has filed a police complaint. He further
 stated that it is correct that he has not filed any document on record to show
 that he has a bank account in Syndicate Bank. He admitted that the legal
 notice was served upon him. He stated that he filed a police complaint
 against the complainant company after receiving the legal notice. He
 admitted that he has not filed on record the copy of the police complaint
 which he allegedly made after receiving the legal notice. He further admitted
 that he has not mentioned in the police complaint Ex. DW1/1 (colly) about
 the alleged fraud committed by the complainant company or the receipt of
 the legal notice. He admitted that the vehicle bearing registration no. DL-5S-
 CC-4033 is registered in his name, and that the loan in question was
 advanced for the purchase of the said vehicle. He stated that he had given a
 written complaint to PS Mandawali on 24.04.2019. He admitted that the
 cheque dishonourment date is 13.03.2020 and that his complaint to PS
 Mandawali was filed before the dishonourment of the cheque in question.
 He denied the suggestion that the complaint filed before PS Mandawali was
 made to escape from his legal liability. He admitted that the address
 mentioned in the memo of parties is his. Vol. He stated that the address
 mentioned corresponds to his original documents on the basis of which he
 got the vehicle financed in the year 2016. However, he alleged that the
 complainant has forged some documents and got a vehicle financed in his
 name and filed the present matter, wherein the address on the documents
 furnished by the complainant is not his. He denied the suggestion that Ex.
 DW1/1 (colly), Annexure-3, shows that he is habitual of taking loans and

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 filing false complaints against companies to escape his legal liabilities. He
 stated that he has not filed any FIR against L & T Company.
 He stated that he has filed one complaint against the company Rajender
 Motor, which had released the vehicle DL-5S-CC-4033 in his name. Vol. He
 stated that he cannot say whether he can produce that complaint. He denied
 the suggestion that he has not filed any complaint against the said company
 and that for this reason the same has not been filed on record. He admitted
 that as per FIR Ex. DW1/2, M/s Shriram City Union Finance has been
 mentioned as the accused. Vol. He stated that he had mentioned the name of
 the complainant company in the FIR. He stated that the police had issued
 notice to the complainant as an accused to appear before the police. He
 denied the suggestion that the notice issued by the police to M/s Shriram
 City Union Finance was only for production of documents and not for
 appearance as an accused. He further denied the suggestion that he has filed
 a false complaint Ex. DW1/2 (FIR No. 83/2024) to escape his loan liability.
 He denied the suggestion that he is deposing falsely. 17.Final arguments were concluded and record of the case and evidence of both
 the parties was thoroughly perused. 18.In the final arguments, the counsel for complainant submitted that
 complainant has been able to prove all the ingredients u/s 138 NI Act which
 stood corroborated by the documentary evidence led in the evidence. The
 counsel for complainant further submitted that accused has not brought any
 defence and has neither rebutted the presumption arising in favour of the

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 complainant in terms of Section 118 & 139 of NI Act in as much as
 testimony of complainant has remained uncontroverted in material
 particulars. 19. On the other hand, counsel for accused stated that there were many
 contradictions in the evidence of the complainant and as such complainant
 has not been able to prove any liability of the accused. It is argued that the
 complainant company has misused the documents of the accused i.e. Aadhar
 card and PAN card and wrongly implicated him in the present case. It is
 argued that accused had availed a loan for his scooty in the year 2016,
 however, the said loan has already been repaid and the accused was also
 given NOC qua the same. It is submitted that the alleged loan in the present
 matter has never been advanced to the accused rather his documents were
 misused in showing that he had availed the loan. It is argued that the cheque
 in question does not belong to the accused neither the signature on the
 cheque are of the accused. It is argued that accused does not have any bank
 account in Syndicate Bank and as the complainant failed to prove that the
 cheque belongs to the accused and therefore the accused shall be acquitted in
 the present case. 20.Before proceedings to the merits of the case, it is important to lay down the
 basic provision of Section 138 of NI Act,1881. In order to ascertain whether
 accused has committed offence u/s 138 NI Act, the following ingredients
 have to be proved which are as follows: 21. Also, in the case of K. Bhaskaran vs. Sankaran Vaidhyan Balan [1999(4)

 RCR (Criminal) 309], it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as
 under: Further, it is a settled position that when an accused has to rebut the
 presumption under Section 139 NI Act, the standard of proof for doing so is
 that of "preponderance of probabilities". 22. Reference can be made to Judgment of Apex Court in Rangappa v. Mohan ,

 AIR 2010 SC 1898,that, "Once the cheque relates to the account of the
 accused and he accepts and admits the signatures on the said cheque, then
 initial presumption as contemplated under Section 139 of the Negotiable
 Instruments Act has to be raised by the Court in favour of the complainant." 23.Thus, as per the scheme of the Act, on proof of the foundational facts, a
 presumption arises as to the cheque having been issued in discharge of a
 legal liability, and the burden of proof lies upon the accused to rebut the said
 presumption. This clearly is an instance of the rule of 'reverse onus' in
 action, where it is incumbent on the accused to lead what can be called

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 'negative evidence'. It has been held in M/s. Kumar Exports v. M/s. Sharma
 Carpets, [2009 A.I.R. (SC) 1518] that the accused may rebut these
 presumptions by leading direct evidence and in some exceptional cases,
 from the case set out by the complainant, that is, the averments in the
 complaint, the case set out in the statutory notice and evidence adduced by
 the complainant during the trial. 24. Thus, as laid down in catena of decisions, it is an established law that onus

 lies upon the accused to rebut the presumption and to establish that cheque
 in question was not given in respect of any debt or liability, with the
 standard of proof being preponderance of probability once it is proved that
 the cheque in question belongs to the accused and the accused must have
 drawn the same on the account maintained by him and he admits his
 signatures on the said cheque. 25. Being cumulative, it goes without saying that it is only when all the

 aforementioned ingredients are satisfied that the person who had drawn the
 cheque can be deemed to have committed an offence u/s 138 NI Act. This
 criminal liability can be attached by proving each of the elements of the
 section under which liability is sought to be enforced. I shall now go on to
 appreciate the evidence, documentary or oral, in the light of how
 compellingly it satisfies each of such ingredient, if it all. CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics 26. In the present case, the fact that the cheque in question belongs to the

 accused and was drawn on the account maintained by the accused has not
 been proved by the complainant. The accused in all his statements given at
 the time of framing of notice u/s 251 Cr.PC as well as u/s 313 Cr.PC and
 also in his deposition as a witness stated that the cheque in question does not
 belong to him. He deposed that he does not maintain any account in the
 Syndicate Bank on which the cheque was drawn. The accused denied his
 signatures on the cheque and also the factum of handing over the cheque to
 the complainant towards any legal liability. The accused even denied taking
 any loan from the complainant company and rather alleged that his
 documents i.e. Aadhar Card and PAN card have been misused and he has
 been falsely implicated in the present matter. The accused also stated that as
 soon as he came to know that his documents have been misused, he had also
 filed a complaint against the same on which an F.I.R. no. 83/2024, PS
 Mandawali, Delhi, i.e. Mark D was also registered. The accused also relied
 upon the report filed by the IO Ex. DW1/2 (colly.) in the above said F.I.R.
 The complainant despite giving opportunity, could not produce any
 document to prove that the cheque in question belongs to the accused and
 that it was the accused who had availed the loan facility for a sum of
 Rs.55,000/- from the complainant company. No loan agreement has been
 produced by the complainant for the perusal of the court. In fact, the AR of
 the complainant in his examination in chief stated that he has no knowledge
 whether the accused had given any application for availing the alleged loan
 or not. He also denied having any knowledge with regard to the fact of
 taking loan by the accused from the complainant company. Whereas on the

CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics
 other hand, the accused has shown ample proof showing his actions against
 the misuse of his documents. 27. It is a well settled principle of law that prosecution has to stand on its own

 leg and prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Also held by Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in Rahul Builders vs. Arihant Fertilizers and
 Chemicals and Anr. (2008) 2SCC 321, NI Act envisages application of the
 similar provisions which needs to be construed strictly. Hence, even if two
 views in the matter are possible, the court should lean in favour of the view
 which is beneficial to the accused. 28. Therefore, in the present case the benefit of doubt must go to the accused. Complainant has not been able to prove his case and there are some serious
 lacuna in the story of the complainant. Moreover, the presumption of law
 which is to be drawn in favour of drawee, namely the complainant that the
 cheque has been issued for the valid discharge of his debt, get dislodged by a
 plausible explanation furnished by the accused. In light of above facts and
 circumstances, the accused has probablized his defence by exposing gaping
 holes in the case of complainant. Therefore, this court is of the opinion that
 the complainant failed to prove that the cheque had been issued in discharge
 of any legal debt or other liability. 29. Accordingly, the accused Ajay Kumar S/o Sh. Jagdish Chandra is acquitted

 of the offence punishable u/s 138 NI Act with respect to the cheque in
 question. CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics 30. Let copy of this Judgment be given to both the parties free of cost. CC No.: 13840/2020 Shri Ram City Union Finance Ltd. Vs. Ajay Kumar Page
number/Statistics