Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and learned

 A.P.P. for the State. 2. The petitioner seek bail in a case instituted for the

 offences under Sections 318(4), 338, 336(3), 340(2) and 112(2) of

 B.N.S. and Sections 10 and 11 of the Bihar Public Examinations

 ( Prevention and Unfair Means ) Act, 2024. 3. As per the prosecution case, the Central Selection Board

 examination have been conducted for appointment to the post of

 constable and the petitioner was apprehended using forged identity in

 place of Rahul Kumar Das during the physical examination. It has

 been alleged in the FIR that the petitioner was found to be

 committing fraud through impersonation in order to get a job for

 Rahul Kumar Das and was apprehended. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the

 petitioner is innocent and was not involved in the said fraud as stated
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.14236 of 2025(4) dt.16-07-2025 2/3 in FIR. It has further been stated that the petitioner himself is a young

 man and has his carrier ahead and, even from the perusal of the

 photographs and other biometrics details the allegation of appearing

 as a scholar in written examination is also negated from the fact that

 the writing and signature of the petitioner did not match from the

 writing and signature of the candidate. It has next been submitted that

 there is no other incriminating material recovered from the

 possession of the petitioner or from the other co-accused persons

 which would connect the petitioner with the present case. It has lastly

 been submitted that the petitioner has clean antecedent and is in

 custody since 05.01.2025. 5. Learned APP for the State vehemently opposed the

 prayer of bail and has stated that the sanctity of such examination has

 been jeopardized by the conduct of the accused persons including the

 petitioner. 6. Considering the aforesaid submissions and taking into

 account the period of custody, let the petitioner, above named, be

 enlarged on bail, upon furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- (Ten

 Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the

 satisfaction of the learned court below where the case is

 pending/concerned court, in connection with Gardanibagh P.S. Case

 No. 09 of 2025 subject to the following conditions: 7. It is made clear that the observations, if any, made in

 this order, shall be of no bearing during the trial. (Sourendra Pandey, J)
Siddharth Soni/- U