1. The present bail application is filed under Section 438 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC ) seeking pre-arrest bail in
 FIR No. 70/2022 dated 24.08.2022, registered at Police Station Cyber
 Police Station South, for offences under Sections 419 / 420 of the
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ) and Section 66(D) of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act ). 2. The FIR was registered at the behest of Mr. Sumit Kumar, the
 director of M/S Headsup Corporation Pvt. Ltd. (hereafter 'the
 company'). The company was engaged in the business of providing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 1 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18 services of Human Resource Management and IT solutions. It is
 alleged that certain unknown individuals were falsely misrepresenting
 themselves under the company's name to offer some fraudulent jobs in
 order to cheat money illegally in exchange for the same. It is alleged
 that the offenders created a forum, namely, "Task Reception" on
 Telegram whereby they insisted on completing certain tasks to earn a
 monetary benefit in return. They also issued fake certificates with the
 company's details in order to cheat money from many individuals
 while asking them to complete the said tasks. 3. It is alleged that some of the cheated amount was transferred to
 the account of one firm namely, "Blachit Overseas Pvt. Ltd.". The
 firm was registered by an accountant namely, Sunny Aggarwal at the
 request of the applicant. It is alleged that a mobile phone was seized
 from the possession of co-accused Arpit Jain, in which some
 WhatsApp chats were also found indicating that the applicant is the
 operator of accounts of the firms collecting cheated amounts from the
 victims. It is alleged that the applicant was also involved in the
 manipulation of Aadhar cards as per the WhatsApp chats between the
 applicant and co-accused Arpit Jain. 4. During the investigation, co-accused Anant Jain @ Aashu
 disclosed that he was an employee of the applicant and getting a salary
 of ₹25,000/- per month for assisting him in taking premises on rent for
 the fake companies, opening and verifying the current accounts of
 those companies and delivery of banking kits to the applicant. 5. During the investigation, bank officials of IDFC First Bank told Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 2 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18 that the applicant introduced himself as the owner of the firm "Blachit
 Overseas Private Ltd." during the opening of its account and physical
 verification of its address. As per the account analysis of Blachit
 Overseas Pvt. Ltd and Kaiyar Logistics Pvt. Ltd, it was discovered that
 there is a total transaction of ₹10,01,33,603/- in both the companies. 6. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant
 had no role to play in the commission of the alleged offences and had
 been falsely implicated in the present FIR. He submits that the
 investigation agency had failed to establish any connection whatsoever
 of the applicant in relation to the facts of the present FIR. 7. He submits that the investigation agency rather than serving the
 applicant with the notice under Section 41-A of the CrPC had
 mischievously obtained NBW by misrepresenting the court regarding
 the whereabouts of the applicant and had initiated the proceedings
 under Section 82 of the CrPC against the applicant. 8. He submits that the complainant is a company which cannot be
 manipulated or influenced by the applicant and no loss has been
 caused to them. Moreover, there exists no witness in the present case
 to whom there may be chances of threat. 9. He submits that the applicant was granted interim protection by
 this Court by order dated 31.07.2023 and he has already joined the
 investigation and provided the necessary information available with
 him. 10. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
 State opposed the grant of any relief to the applicant. He submits that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 3 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18 the allegations against the applicant are serious in nature. It is argued
 that the modus operandi of the present applicant amply demonstrates
 his dishonest intention. 11. He submits that raids were conducted at the residence of the
 applicant and notices under Section 41 of the CrPC were also served
 in the month of April, 2023 but he did not join the investigation.
 Therefore, proceedings under Section 82 of the CrPC were initiated
 against the applicant. 12. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties. 13. It is to be kept in mind that the considerations governing the
 grant of pre- arrest bail are materially different than those to be
 considered while adjudicating the application for grant of regular bail,
 as in the latter case, the accused is already under arrest and substantial
 investigation is carried out by the investigating agency. 14. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC is extraordinary in nature and is to be
 exercised sparingly. Thus, pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a
 routine manner. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of A.P.
 v. Bimal Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, held as under: 9. Similar observations have been made by us in a recent
 judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7 SCC 187 : 1997
 SCC (Cri) 1039 : JT (1997) 7 SC 651] : (SCC pp. 189-90,
 para 8)
 "The consideration which should weigh with the
 Court while dealing with a request for anticipatory
 bail need not be the same as for an application to
 release on bail after arrest." xxxx xxxx xxxx 12. We are strongly of the opinion that this is not a case for
 exercising the discretion under Section 438 in favour of
 granting anticipatory bail to the respondents. It is
 disquieting that implications of arming the respondents,
 when they are pitted against this sort of allegations
 involving well-orchestrated conspiracy, with a pre-arrest
 bail order, though subject to some conditions, have not
 been taken into account by the learned Single Judge. We
 have absolutely no doubt that if the respondents are
 equipped with such an order before they are interrogated
 by the police it would greatly harm the investigation and
 would impede the prospects of unearthing all the
 ramifications involved in the conspiracy. Public interest
 also would suffer as a consequence. Having apprised
 himself of the nature and seriousness of the criminal
 conspiracy and the adverse impact of it on "the career of
 millions of students", learned Single Judge should not have
 persuaded himself to exercise the discretion which
 Parliament had very thoughtfully conferred on the Sessions
 Judges and the High Courts through Section 438 of the
 Code, by favouring the respondents with such a pre-arrest
 bail order." 15. It is settled law that the custodial interrogation is qualitatively
 more elicitation oriented than questioning a suspect who is well
 ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of the CrPC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 5 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18 [State v. Anil Sharma : (1997) 7 SCC 187]. Granting pre-arrest bail to
 the applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation. An
 order of pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to
 allow the applicant to use the same as a shield. The interim protection
 provided by this court to the applicant by order dated 31.07.2023, in
 my view does not come in aid of the applicant. 16. In the present case, specific allegations have been levelled
 against the applicant involving a meticulously orchestrated, alleged
 financial entrapment schemes via online platforms (Telegram)
 wherein the innocent people are duped under the guise of employment
 opportunities. The Court acknowledges that such activities constitute
 fraudulent practices that not only inflict harm upon individual victims
 but also undermine public trust in online financial transactions.
 Instances of fraudulent schemes, cast a significant shadow of
 uncertainty and insecurity over digital platforms integral to
 contemporary financial frameworks. 17. The allegations against the applicant, as detailed in the FIR
 registered at the instance of Mr. Sumit Kumar, director of M/S
 Headsup Corporation Pvt. Ltd., involve the misuse of the company's
 name to orchestrate job-related frauds. Some unknown individuals,
 allegedly under the applicant's direction, formed a Telegram forum
 called "Task Reception" to deceive people into completing tasks for
 monetary gains and issued fake certificates to extort money. The
 applicant is implicated in channelling some of the fraudulent proceeds
 to "Blachit Overseas Pvt. Ltd.", a firm registered by accountant Sunny Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 6 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18 Aggarwal at his behest. Investigations in the present case also
 uncovered WhatsApp chats on co-accused Arpit Jain's phone,
 indicating the applicant managed the accounts involved in the fraud
 and manipulated Aadhar cards. Further, co-accused Anant Jain @
 Aashu, an employee of the applicant, confessed to aiding in
 operational tasks for the fraudulent firms. Bank officials from IDFC
 First Bank also identified the applicant who introduced himself as
 director of "Blachit Overseas Private Ltd". 18. The nature of allegations indicate that further investigation
 needs to be carried out. The same in the opinion of this Court would
 require custodial interrogation of the applicant. The allegations do not
 seem to have been made to unnecessary implicate or injure the
 applicant. 19. Considering the above and the nature of the offence and the
 possibility of multiple victims who have been cheated, this Court does
 not find the present case to be a fit case for exercising jurisdiction
 under Section 438 of the CrPC. 20. The present application is accordingly dismissed. 21. It is clarified that any observations made in the present order are
 for the purpose of deciding the present bail application and should not
 influence the outcome of the Trial and also not be taken as an
 expression of opinion on the merits of the case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 MAY 8, 2024 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 2403/2023 Page 7 of 7 Signing Date:14.05.2024 16:02:18