SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Dating apps and parading narcs
DATE: 2024-06-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1dintru/dating_apps_and_parading_narcs/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR: Potentially toxic person and their operative ways as found over three weeks via Bumble

I (34F) recently decided to dive back into the dating world after staying single for over a year. My last ex was quite possibly someone with NPD, which made healing slow, laborious, and lonesome. I focused on self-love and self-discovery and decided that naivete is not the way to go about in the adult world of love and relationships.

Towards the end of May this year, I matched with a man (39M) on Bumble. Initially, his age showed 36, and later he confessed he was two years older than what was on his profile and that he would turn 39 in the first week of June. His texts were composed, and seemingly mature, and seemed to be educated and accomplished in his job. Apparent in his self-description, this was a man who came from a wealthy and accomplished family, having been born and brought up overseas and had received degrees from top-brass universities in the States and the UK. He even shared his LinkedIn profile with me early on, to which I said I am more interested in a man's virtues and inner world than how he breaks bread. I could sense he was trying to mirror a lot of my texts, when I said I am a person who believes in honesty and empathy as life's virtues, he claimed he was no different. Soon enough he started sending voice notes from the first day, as I refused to have a phone call with him within the few exchanges of text. He was alright with it, apparently, all the more since he was in my city for no more than three days, as he was visiting his mother's extended family as he said. His texts were frequent but not too in your face, and I realized I found his demeanour and manner of speaking quite palatable.

On his birthday, which was June 5, I agreed to exchange numbers and we had a reasonably long phone conversation. One thing that did make me wonder was his earnestness in wanting to get married and not having found "his match" yet. He claimed to have been on [shaadi.com](http://shaadi.com/) (a matrimonial site), had tried matchmakers, and had met women over the years, but claimed to not like them as he was "picky, choosy, and fastidious". Pretty early on, in our first phone call, he said he was talking to me "with a clear intention, not for shits and giggles \[sic\], but to pursue this to see if we were compatible for marriage". While flattered at some level, I kept my guard up, as it seemed too good to be true. He added he had been in a relationship with someone from 2019-2021, but was single ever since, and since he had met her on Bumble, he felt the app would be more reliable for long term connections than others. He seemed to want to know me and was quite keen on discussing his own life to some extent. I made sure I was never the one to call him or initiate texts in the day, which I felt was necessary, as one never knows. Living in a posh neighborhood in Delhi, he made it clear that he was back in India as he had lived abroad all his life, and he needs househelp to do his bidding, and that at the end of the day, you never really "become one of them" especially in South East Asia where he spent his formative years and some years as a professional.

Around two weeks ago, I found his attitude at times hot and cold, and I wondered what he would be upto, as a single man, living alone in a posh Delhi locality, while his parents lived in a lavish house in Gurgaon. He claimed to go for longish drives in the evenings and would often send late-night messages etc. I do remember how after a phone call where he revealed he couldn't be with women with dark complexions or with moles/warts on their face, which I called him out for, he started "love-bombing", how he enjoys talking to me, how I don't make him feel judged, and shared his cousins' photos with me. When I returned his texts there was no response, and later the next day, he claimed he had "missed his messages as he had archived them by mistake on WhatsApp". We had a long phone call thereafter where he claimed his last breakup was during covid, (a timeline which did not match with his earlier claim: he claimed he was in a relationship earlier between 2019-21, now he claimed it was mid-2020 to early 2022), because he did not want to involve the families for a discussion about marriage, as he was yet to find roots in his current job (he is a Canadian national, working as a consultant in an Asian Bank). He felt smothered when the girl's father and the girl would up their ante and force the marriage conversation with him. He felt the girl feared he lacked commitment and feared abandonment/disloyalty from him, which led her to leave him eventually. He claimed he was younger then, and desperately was now looking to get married and start a family. I did remark that I found him updating his Bumble photos (all selfies/mirror selfies) and changing his language from Bengali to Punjabi strange, as soon as he travelled back from Kolkata to Delhi, and he was perceptibly offended and claimed that it was his cousin brother who changed the settings. Nonetheless, his language never returned to Bengali despite him claiming to be a prank from his brother, which I wasn't convinced about for a moment. In the same phone call, he bemoaned that I never called him and that made him feel I was disinterested in him. I reasoned saying that I give people space, all the more since I assumed he would be busy as he preferred working from home, and that I was still getting to know him. The same evening, he bombarded me with texts and voice notes and called me when I couldn't take his call as I was renewing my dad's driver's license on the laptop at the time. When I returned his texts and calls within half an hour, there was no response the entire evening or the next day, which baffled me quite a bit. The next morning, I found two random videos he sent at 3 am of his kitchen platform with the food his mum had sent over after a massive altercation between them. There was no context of to whom and why he was sending such videos. I chose not to respond to such half-hearted overtures.

The next day, on Friday afternoon, he started getting all mushy and friendly again. Asking how I was and if he could call me in the evening, I responded curtly, and later told him over the phone call I didn't appreciate flaky behavior and called him out over his hot-and-cold behavior. He claimed those videos were sent as a peek into his world and that he would try and do better, as he may have fallen asleep that evening. I didn't buy it one bit as I knew he had pizza over as he sent his last voice note when I couldn't take his call and returned his call within half an hour. He sent late night texts about how attractive he found me, and that he found me intelligent and engaging, and talking to me was the highlight of his day. Within some hours of Saturday early morning, I saw he had sent a barrage of texts, of how he is never scared of anyone, but he was very scared of me as a sign of respect. He claimed to be scared of his father and the US economy and sent long texts and voice notes of the dominance of the US Currency. I could feel he was drunk. When I responded to his texts asking if he had any sleep and if he was alright, he called me up and was evidently very emotional and seemingly vulnerable. He claimed how much of a future potential he saw in me, that he admired my classiness, that he needed the intellectual connect in his partner and that he really wanted to meet me, asking for a date that suited me for him to come over to Kolkata. I rebuffed him as I said he feels such a way due to the initial rush of hormones in the face of something new and that boredom makes him flee by his own insinuation earlier. I had already made it clear that we were not as rich as he or his family were, that my sister had mental health issues he should be aware of, and I finally told him of my gynaecological history which could be a deterrent to his enthusiasm in taking this any further. He appreciated my honesty, and said if we did end up together and if there were any complications, he wouldn't mind opting for surrogacy. He claimed to want to know my father's first name so that if we had a future son, they could be named by his initials. He later confessed that he was adopted by his parents when he was six months old, and felt he owed me that information as I had come clear with him about my past. He started calling me "love, dear, baby, sweetheart" from thereafter which I found premature and having been with a love-bomber before, I was wary of such terms of endearment from someone who hadn't met me in person yet. I was aware he was someone with a fondness for alcohol and had unhealthy sleep habits, was someone with a mercurial temper, even though he denied having anger issues. His language was replete with profanities and used derogatory terms for his "home-maker mother" and "lesbian sister", and had a not very linear relationship with his very successful father. I could also see that while he wanted a cultured woman, and he had made distasteful remarks about women from Punjab as they were "materialistic, without much class", he had an inherent dislike for his adoptive cultural background. Calling Bengalis of physically poorer constitution, he seemed to be more akin to the Punjabi community, and the dichotomous relationship in his mind seemed to be expressed in his angst-ridden, explosive statements about either community. What was more jarring to me was his sense of entitlement, his clear class consciousness of being raised in an elite family and had sheer disdain for people who earned less than he did: including people who came from poorer suburbs or less elite neighbourhoods. He also stated he found me gorgeous and beautiful and he was terribly attracted to me, but wanted me to always have sun-protection gear and not get tanned as he found women with darker complexion (Tamil Nadu, Kerala) etc not his type. I said his problematic statements were nauseating and I hoped for his own sake he would reform and refine his sense of humour if at all he felt he was being funny.

On Saturday evening, during our phone call, he asked an evidently inappropriate question: If I masturbated. I said it was inappropriate and deeply personal and that the timing was misplaced. He said while he understood my point, he felt it was a necessary fork in the road of us getting to know each other as we had to transgress the route of friendship and know each other beyond friendship. I asked him about his sexual and relationship history; he claimed to have slept with three out of four of his girlfriends; while had four ONS, the last one being in Mongolia in 2015. I asked if he went bar-hopping as often as he did, and how is it he didn't hook up and pick one of his girls from there. He said he has never picked up a girl at a bar, nor does he want to do hook-ups as the formality of getting back to them the next day is a headache he does not need. I somehow was sceptical as I was not sure if this was the whole truth. I was earlier with an ex who claimed he would solicit women on his overseas trips quite often and he was certainly a less frequent flier than this man was.

On Sunday morning I saw he had sent a barrage of texts and called a few times from 5:30 am onwards. He even conveyed a Father's Day message for my dad, stating next year, he would like to spend it together. I decided to draw some sterner boundaries and told him when I woke up that we should talk later. I did not receive his calls in the afternoon: the first call I missed to which I responded immediately but found he was immediately on another call on WhatsApp; and later after two hours when he called back, I decided to call him a little later. The Sunday evening call was revelatory but was not something that completely blindsided me. He was as usual mushy and gregarious; claimed that he ditched his plan of visiting his parents' home in Gurgaon as he had drunk a lot till wee hours (in an inebriated state had sent those many texts and made those many calls to me at 5:30 am) and claimed his cousin had visited him in the afternoon. In his expected vein, he claimed he and I made a good match; a claim I rebutted point-blank. Instead of jesting, I said that while he was looking around for women as perfect match for his criteria, I said he fell short of my criteria. I listed out my criteria of a potential partner: A man with kindness, compassion, and empathy; someone with loyalty and commitment; with a becoming temperament and more refined lexicon to describe others (and not a potty-mouth), someone with shared middle-class values, someone who'd be there for me during infirmity and not someone I would have to worry about, had a healthy relationship with substances if he were to resort to them for pleasure or at leisure. He kept rebuffing stating he had all of these. He asserted that he matched 95% of the criteria, and I decided to let him talk a little more. This is where my deal-breaker came through: He said:

"After marriage, my wife must not work, she must tend to me and look after my kids. I don't want my kids to be brought up by maids and have that subaltern accent". When I called him out for his medieval, patriarchal mindset, he lashed out saying, "Then get my kind of salary na! Get 2 crores in without tax deductions and bring home that kind of bacon. Earning 30,000 or 50,000 rupees a month and leaving the kids and me to our own devices? Can't have both ways. That kind of money is my average Friday dinner, in fact it is my toilet paper money. Get my kind of salary and then speak womenfolk! Want a vacation in French Rivera and want to also work? (At this point, I felt he was a lunatic, as I never had discussed my salary nor had ever expressed any intention to vacation overseas). I said it is a good thing you have revealed this about your needs as you need a trophy wife from the Middle Ages and that won't be me. He flew into a rage and started hollering: "What do you mean? Is this the end of our relationship?" I said calmly, "We never had one to begin with". He interrupted me "Shut up, you idiot, even with a driver we have a relationship", I retorted, "Don't you speak to me like that", he hissed "I speak whatever way I want you dumb..." Before he could complete his mad rant, I hung up. He continued to send texts taunting me to come at him, and that I should think thrice before coming at him as he would come after me and that would not be pleasant. He ended with "nice knowing you, ciao". I chose not to engage with this deranged person and blocked him immediately after that.

The exchange left me drained and deeply troubled about the nature of rage and dysregulation his mind was capable of showing. He showed all the virtues of a malignant, grandiose narcissist, and I am glad I kind of stuck to my guns and did not let him "future fake" me into his world of delusions.

Over