1. This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the order dated
29.11.2018 of learned Commissioner of Income-Tax (Appeals)-II, Indore ["Ld.
CIT(A)"] in Appeal No. IT-10421/16-17/530, which in turn arises out of the
order of assessment dated 22.12.2016 passed by the learned ITO, Ward-5(5),
Indore ["Ld. AO"] u/s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ["the Act"] for the
Assessment-Year 2014-15. Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15 2. The assessee has raised following grounds: 3. On the fact and circumstances of the case the Learned CIT
 (A) erred in framing the order after observing as the
 statement of Appellant recorded during the Assessment
 Proceedings. And he denied of dealed of Shares of M/s
 Turbo Tech Engineers Ltd. Thus whole Appeal Order has
 been framed on warm facts. Hence bad in Law. 4. On the facts & in the circumstances of the case the
 Learned CIT(A) erred in not accepting the fact that the
 Assessment for the Assessment Year 2014-15 has been
 finalized after keeping in view of general information of
 Investigation Wing instead of specific of the assessee. 5. On the facts & in the circumstances of the case Learned
 CIT(A) erred in not appreciating the facts that the Assessee
 earned long term Capital Gain on Transfer in Single Scrip
 of M/s Turbo Tech Engineers Ltd. 6. That on the fact and in the circumstances of the case, the
 learned CIT (A) has erred in confirming the action of AO
 regarding addition of the Notional Commission calculated
 on such Share Transaction without any evidence to whom
 paid. 7. That the appellant reserves its right to add to amend to
 alter or to modify any of above grounds and to pursue any
 other or further grounds as may be required." 3. The assessee-individual filed his return of income on 31.07.2014, a
copy of which is placed in the Paper-Book, declaring a total income of Rs.
2,33,320/- from tuition, laptop work and interest. In the return, the assessee Page 2 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

also declared a long-term capital gain of Rs. 64,58,168/- earned from sale of
equity shares of Turbotech Engineering Ltd., exempted u/s 10(38) of the act.
The assessee claimed to have purchased 35,000 shares of Turbotech
Engineering Ltd. for Rs. 1,77,192/-, sold the same for Rs. 66,35,360/- and
thereby earned a whopping capital gain of Rs. 64,58,168/-. Apprehending
the capital gain as suspicious, the case was selected for scrutiny under CASS
and the statutory notices u/s 143(2) and 142(1) were issued from time to
time. During assessment-proceeding, the Ld. AO asked the assessee to prove
the capital gain, in response to which the assessee made a detailed
submission. Observing that the assessee has made an unrealistic non-
taxable capital gain of Rs. 64,58,168/- on a very small investment of just Rs.
1,77,192/- and that too within a short period of just 17 months by indulging
in the transactions of what is called "penny stock", the Ld. AO completed
assessment u/s 143(3) by order dated 22.12.2016 after making a total
addition of Rs. 65,87,330/- on two counts, viz. (i) Ld. AO treated the capital
gain of Rs. 64,58,168/- as bogus receipt u/s 68 of the Act, and also (ii) Ld.
AO added a sum of Rs. 1,29,162/- on account of estimated brokerage-cost
incurred by assessee out of undisclosed sources for arranging bogus capital
gain. Aggrieved by the order of assessment, the assesse filed appeal to Ld.
CIT(A). The Ld. CIT(A), however, dismissed appeal and did not grant any
relief. Now, the assessee has assailed the order of Ld. CIT(A) in this appeal
filed before us. 4. During hearing, the Ld. AR did not press Ground No. 3. Therefore, with
the consent of both sides, Ground No. 3 is treated as withdrawn and does not
call for adjudication by us. Ground No. 7 is also general and does not require
any adjudication. We, therefore, proceed to decide other Grounds. 5. By means of various effective Grounds, the assessee has challenged the
twin-additions made by Ld. AO, viz. (i) addition of Rs. 64,58,168/- in respect
of bogus capital gain, and (ii) addition of Rs. 1,29,162/- on account of
estimated brokerage cost incurred by assessee out of unexplained sources. Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15 6. Before proceeding further, we may note down the undisputed facts of
the impugned transactions of capital gain, as culled out from the
assessment-order, the order of Ld. CIT(A) and the material held in the Paper-
Books submitted by parties so that the issues can be better understood in
subsequent paragraphs: A copy of the Demat A/c is placed in the Paper-Book. (iii) Sale - The shares were sold for a sum of Rs. 66,35,360/- on
 10.10.2013 / 17.10.2013 through M/s Indo Thai Securities Ltd., a
 SEBI-registered member of Bombay Stock Exchange, Mumbai. The
 Contract-Notes of sales are placed in the Paper-Book, which
 demonstrate that the assessee has paid brokerage, service-tax and STT
 on sales. The sales is made through stock-exchange and the Order No.,
 Trade No., Settlement No. and Trade-timings are duly mentioned in the
 Contract-Notes. The sale-consideration is received through banking
 channel and the same is credited in the Bank A/c of assessee. A copy
 of Bank Statement is also placed in the Paper-Book. Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15 7. During assessment-proceeding, the Ld. AO made following
 observations: (iv) Ld. AO analysed the stock-market data of the share of Turbotech
 Engineering Ltd. and observed that the market price is unrealistic and
 not related to the financial results of the company. Ld. AO observed
 that the price of share was very low till January, 2011 which then
 continuously increased. Thereafter, the price again fell down and came
 to initial stage. Ld. AO, thus, observed that the market price of the
 share was artificially and intentionally rigged by about 3644% when Page 5 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

 there was no related-growth in the company with an objective to
 provide accommodation entry. (v) Ld. AO issued a summon u/s 131 , followed by reminders, to the
 assessee to afford an opportunity to the assessee as also to ascertain
 the truth of the transactions undertaken by assessee. But the assessee
 did not appear. Ld. AO, therefore, concluded that the assessee did not
 have knowledge of the financials and credentials of Turbotech
 Engineering Ltd., whose prices have registered a whopping increase of
 3644% in just one year. (vi) Ld. AO also gathered data of the persons who purchased shares from
 the assessee through the stock-exchange and issued notices u/s
 133(6) to those persons. In the notices, Ld. AO called upon those
 persons to submit the relevant details. However, none of them
 responded. 8. Based on above observations, the Ld. AO inferred that the capital gain
declared by the assessee is not genuine and the same has been arranged by
the assessee so as to claim benefit of section 10(38) . Therefore, the Ld. AO
assessee issued show-cause notice dated 02.12.2016 to the assessee, the
contents of which are extracted below: 9. Responding to above notice, the assessee filed a detailed reply, the
contents of which is noted by Ld. AO in Para No. 8 of the assessment-order.
However, the Ld. AO was not satisfied with the submissions of assessee and
relying upon following decisions favouring Revenue, the Ld. AO made twin-
additions as mentioned in the beginning: 10. During first appellate proceeding, the assessee submitted a detailed
reply to Ld. CIT(A) reiterating almost same submissions as made before Ld.
AO but with the support of some more judicial precedents. However, the
assessee did not find any favour from the Ld. CIT(A) who confirmed firstly the
addition of Rs. 64,58,168/- by concluding as under: Secondly, the Ld. CIT(A) also confirmed the addition of Rs. 1,29,162/- by
holding as under: The Ld. CIT(A) has also relied upon following decisions in arriving at above
conclusions: 11. Before us, the Ld. AR made a very lengthy submission. Ld. AR drew
our attention to the various documents placed in the Paper-Book to explain
that the transactions undertaken by assessee are very much genuine. The
Ld. AR raised several contentions, which we precisely summarize below: Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15 (ii) The purchase and sale transactions were done in a recognized stock- exchange through the members of stock-exchanges who are registered
 by SEBI. Nothing adverse is found by lower authorities with regard to
 those members. (iii) The Contract-Notes include Trade Nos., Contract Nos., Settlement Nos. and Trade Timings and there is no dispute over those details. (iv) Contract-Notes clearly evident that the assessee has paid statutory
 levies such as Service-tax and STT, which have certainly gone to the
 pocket of exchequer. (v) The delivery of shares had been taken and given, which is very much
 evident from the Demat A/c held with State Bank of India. Therefore,
 the genuineness of purchase and sale cannot be doubted. (vi) The searches/surveys/enquiries conducted by department were
 actions against those persons upon whom they were conducted. The
 assessee is not related in any way with those searches/surveys/
 enquiries. Further, the findings made in those actions were general
 and not of the assessee. The Investigation-Report of Investigation Wing,
 Kolkata of Income-tax Department dated 27.04.2015 ["Investigation-
 Report"], being relied upon by the authorities, is a general report. It
 does not include assessee's name. The Investigation-Report does not
 make any allegation qua the assessee. (vii) Regarding whopping increase in the prices of share purchased and sold
 by assessee, stock market does not have a predictable behavior. The
 prices of any share can go up or down and it depends on several
 factors and not simply the financials of the company. In any case, the
 assessee is a small-level person and did not have any control over the
 prices of stocks. (viii) The revenue does not have any evidence to dislodge the transactions of
 assessee. Revenue is simply relying upon the conjectures, surmises, Page 9 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

 generalized modus operandi and preponderance of human probabilities
 as against the specific evidences placed by the assessee on record.
 Therefore, the approach of revenue is faulty and not valid. (ix) This is not the solitary transaction done by assessee. In fact, the
 assessee has also purchased and held other shares too, which is
 evident from the Statement of Affairs placed in the Paper-Book. Even
 the details of those other shares were also supplied to the Ld. AO
 during assessment-proceeding and those details are also noted by Ld.
 AO at Page No. 24 to 26 of the assessment-order. (x) Ld. AR has filed copies of several decisions in favour of assessee in the
 Paper-Book but during the course of hearing, the Ld. AR referred to
 and relied upon the following decisions: 12. Per contra, Ld. DR placed heavy reliance on the observations and
reasoning given by lower authorities and argued that the transactions done
by assessee are only paper-transactions and the capital gain declared by the
assessee is not a real profit but a bogus income arranged by assessee.
According to Ld. DR, the assessee has arranged bogus capital gain to claim
the benefit of section 10(38) . During his arguments, the Ld. DR emphasized
following vital aspects: letter of the broker or competent person who had advised to invest
 hard-earned money in the game of such a weak company. (iii) It is true that the assessee has also made investment in other shares
 but that that investment is very nominal. Further those shares held by
 assessee are not "penny stocks" and the department is also not raising
 any doubt on those shares. But the share of Turbotech Engineering
 Ltd., with which we are concerned, is a "penny stock". 13. In rejoinder, the Ld. AR attempted to rebut the points emphasized by
Ld. DR by drawing our attention to Page No. 117 of the Paper-Book where an
affidavit dated 28.09.2016 filed before Ld. AO, is placed. Ld. AR submitted
that in response to the summon issued by Ld. AO u/s 131 , the assessee
appeared but on the fixed date of hearing, the Ld. AO was not in office due to
involvement in carrying out survey and the office of AO informed that new
notice of hearing would be issued. Ld. AR submitted that the assessee has,
however, filed the aforesaid affidavit to Ld. AO but the Ld. AO has ignored the
affidavit. Referring to Point No. 4 of the affidavit, Ld. AR also pointed that the
assessee has clearly averred in the affidavit that he purchased shares due to
several messages being received on the mobile phones of family-members
about good returns. 14. In response, the Ld. DR continued his insistence that the assessee has
made non-compliance of the summon issued by Ld. AO u/s 131 . Ld. DR
contested that the affidavit nowhere contains any averment of the assessee to
the effect that it was filed in compliance to the summon u/s 131 or that the
Ld. AO was not available on the date of hearing fixed by summon and his
office conveyed to fix a new date of hearing. Ld. DR submitted that had there Page 11 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

been any such fact, the assessee would have certainly averred. Ld. DR
further raised a serious doubt in the claim of assessee that the advice to
purchase shares of Turbotech Engineering Ltd. was actually received on the
mobiles phones, more interestingly the mobile-phones of family members,
and the assessee was impressed to invest hard-earned money based on such
messages. According to Ld. DR, this claim of assessee is not appealing. 15. We have considered rival submissions, perused the material held on
record and also considered various judicial decisions cited before us. At the
outset, we observe that there are different decisions by Hon'ble Courts on
both sides, some in favour of assessee and some in favour of revenue. While
the Ld. AR places reliance on the decisions in assessee's favour, the revenue
relies upon the decisions in its favour. On a careful analysis we observe that
in some decisions, the additions were made in the proceeding of section
153A / 153C but the same were deleted there being no incriminating evidence.
In some cases, the additions were deleted on the ground that the shares
transacted by the assessee were not appearing in the Investigation-Report
prepared by Investigation Wing, Kolkata of income-tax department. In some
cases, the additions have been deleted because the assessee has not claimed
any benefit of exemption u/s 10(38) or set-off of losses but the assessee has
offered the profit from alleged transactions as normal income and paid
legitimate tax. Yet in some cases, the additions have been deleted or
confirmed on the basis of off-market transactions or transactions done in
cash. In some cases, the additions have been deleted or confirmed accepting
/ not accepting the absence of cross-examination, non-compliances of
notices by the assessee or preponderance of probability, human behavior,
etc. Hence every decision has its own set of facts, circumstances, analysis
and angles of thought and there cannot be a universal conclusion. However,
in all fairness, we would like to discuss the decisions relied upon by the
assessee: Bidyoot Sarkar to the appellant during assessment Page 13 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

 proceedings and merely extracted copies of their statement
 in the assessment order only. The Ld. AO has not
 confronted any material to the assessee nor provided any
 adequate opportunity to the assessee to defend her case.
 Since the statements were not confronted to the assessee,
 she was deprived of her right to cross examine the
 witnesses. Also whatever they have stated in their
 statement is no gospel truth and cannot be applied blindly
 to all the persons who have brought the scrips in the entire
 country. Thus, under these circumstances, at least some
 inquiry should have done from these persons, whether they
 have provided any entry to the assessee, if the request for
 cross examination was not possible at that stage. Cross
 examination of a person in whose basis any adverse
 inference is drawn, then it cannot be primary evidence or
 material to nail the assessee and simply based on the
 statement no addition can be made. This has been held so
 by various courts, and also by Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of M/s Andaman Tiimber Industries vs. CCE (SC )
 reported in 127 DTR 241 has held as follows:" Analysis: Analysis: 16. Now comes the turn of the decision of Hon'ble High Court of Kolkata
in PCIT Vs. Swati Bajaj, ITA No. 06/2022, dated 14.06.2022 decided
recently in favour of Revenue. The decision is much detailed; has considered
various legal precedents of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and other Courts; has
taken into account the Investigation-Report dated 28.04.2015 prepared by
Investigation-Wing of Income-tax Department; and considered the issues of
cross-examination, human probability etc. Some relevant paragraphs of the
decision are extracted below: 71. On a careful reading of the above paragraph will show that the
argument by placing reliance on the case of K.R. Ajmera to show that
presumption can be drawn on the basis of immediate and relevant
facts was contrary to the law already settled by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Chintalapati S. Raju. Therefore, it would be incorrect to
submit that the decision in K.R. Ajmera has been overruled. This
position becomes clearer as the decision in K.R. Ajmera was referred to
in Chintalapati S. Raju as could be seen in paragraph 30 of the said
judgment. Therefore, we hold that the law laid down in K.R. Ajmera
continues to be good law. 72. In the light of the above discussion, the only conclusion that can be
arrived at is that the opinion can be formed and the decision can be Page 18 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

taken by taking note of the surrounding circumstances which had been
elaborated upon in K.R. Ajmera. 73. It is very rare and difficult to get direct information or evidence
with regard to the prior meeting of minds of the persons involved in the
manipulative activities of price rigging and insider trading. We can
draw a parallel in cases of adulteration of food stuff, more than often
action is initiated under the relevant Act after the adulteration takes
place, the users of adulterated products get affected etc. Therefore, a
holistic approach is required to be made and the test of preponderance
of probabilities have to be applied and while doing so, we cannot loose
sight of the fact that the shares of very little known companies with in-
significant business had a steep rise in the share prices within the
period of little over a year. The Income Tax department was not privy
to such peculiar trading activities as they appear to have been done
through the various stock exchanges and it is only when the assessees
made claim for a LTCG/STCL, the investigation commenced. As pointed
out the investigation did not commence from the assessee but had
commenced from the companies and the persons who were involved in
the trading of the shares of these companies which are all classified as
penny stocks companies. Therefore, the argument of the assessee that
the copy of the investigation report has not been furnished, the persons
from whom statements have been recorded have not been produced for
cross examination are all contention which has to necessarily fail for
several reasons which we have set out in the proceedings. To reiterate,
the assessee we not named in the report and when the assessee makes
the claim for exemption the onus of proof is on the assessee to prove
the genuinity. Unfortunately, the assessees have been harping upon the
transactions done by them and by relying upon the documents in their
hands to contend that the transactions done were genuine.
Unfortunately, the test of genuinity needs to be established otherwise,
the assessees are lawfully bound to prove the huge LTCG claims to be
genuine. In other words if there is information and data available of
unreasonable rise in the price of the shares of these penny stock
companies over a short period of time of little more than one year, the
genuinity of such steep rise in the prices of shares needs to be
established and the onus is on the assessee to do so as mandated
in Section 68 of the Act. Thus, the assessees cannot be permitted to
contend that the assessments were based on surmises and conjectures
or presumptions or assumptions. The assessee does not and cannot
dispute the fact that the shares of the companies which they have
dealt with were insignificant in value prior to their trading. If such is
the situation, it is the assessee who has to establish that the price rise
was genuine and consequently they are entitled to claim LTCG on their
transaction. Until and unless the initial burden cast upon the assessee
is discharged, the onus does not shift to the revenue to prove
otherwise. It is incorrect to argue that the assessees have been called
upon to prove the negative in fact, it is the assessees duty to establish
that the rise of the price of shares within a short period of time was a
genuine move that those penny stocks companies had credit worthiness
and coupled with genuinity and identity. The assesses cannot be heard
to say that their claim has to be examined only based upon the Page 19 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

documents produced by them namely bank details, the purchase/sell
documents, the details of the D-Mat Account etc. The assesses have lost
sight of an important fact that when a claim is made for LTCG or
STCL, the onus is on the assessee to prove that credit worthiness of the
companies whose shares the assessee has dealt with, the genuineness
of the price rise which is undoubtedly alarming that to within a short
span of time. The revenue had placed heavy reliance on the decision in
McDowell to show that the claim of the assessee is not case of tax
planning to be one of the tax avoidance by indulging in dubious
methods. Mr. Bagaria had argued the rule in McDowell was considered
in Azadi Bachao Andolan and Vodafone International and it is in the
manner explained in these decisions the rule in McDowell needs to be
applied. From paragraph 138 onwards the Hon'ble Supreme Court
considered in detail as to why McDowell and what it says and what it
does not say. The argument of Mr. Bagaria would primarily rests on as
to what would mean by a sham transaction as a legal one and it is
pointed out that all the parties thereto must have a common intention
that the acts or documents are not to create the legal rights and
obligations which they give the appearance of creating. Further by
referring to the decision in Vodafone International, it is submitted that
the revenue cannot start with the question as to whether the
transaction was a tax deferment/avoidance but the revenue should
apply the "look at" test to ascertain its true legal nature and that
genuine strategic planning had not been abandoned. Further the
revenue has to establish on the basis of facts and circumstances
surrounding the transactions that the impugned transaction is a sham
or tax avoidance. In this regard Mr. Bagaria ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND
ETC. BATCH also referred to the decision in the case of Hill Country
Properties Limited Versus Goman Agro Farms Private Limited 90 and
also the decision in IRC Versus Duke of Westminster 91 . 74. In our considered view we need not travel thus far and wide to
examine as to how and what is said and what is not said in McDowell
Mr. Soumen Bhattacharya referred to the decision for the simple
reason, to point out that tax planning may be legitimate provided it is
within the frame work of law as colourable devices cannot be part of
tax planning which cannot be encouraged. Therefore what we are
required to see is whether the claim made by the assesees before us are
legitimate and whether there was any colourable devices adopted in
the process and these colourable devices may or may not be directly
but indirectly attributable to the assessee. Therefore, we need not
labour much to examine as to how rule in McDowell needs to be applied
as we are required to examine the factual scenario from the cases on
hand which appear to be quite unique not probably drawn the
attention of the courts and the tribunal earlier. 75. While it may be true that M/s. Swati Bajaj, Mr. Girish Tigwani or
other assessees who are before us could have been regular investors,
investors could or could not have been privy to the information or
modus adopted. In our considered view, what is important is that it is
the assessee who has to prove the claim to be genuine in terms
of Section 68 of the Act. Therefore, the assessee cannot escape from the Page 20 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

 burden cast upon him and unfortunately in these cases the burden is
 heavy as the facts establish that the shares which were traded by the
 assessees had phenomenal and fanciful rise in price in a short span of
 time and more importantly after a period of 17 to 22 months,
 thereafter has been a steep fall which has led to huge claims of STCL.
 Therefore, unless and until the assessee discharges such burden of
 proof, the addition made by the assessing officer cannot be faulted. 76. It was argued that unless there are foundational facts,
 circumstantial evidence cannot be relied on. This argument does not
 merit acceptance as wealth of information and facts were on record
 which is the outcome of the investigation on the companies, stock
 brokers, entry operators etc. Based on those foundational facts the
 department has adopted the concept of "working backward" leading to
 the assessees. While at that relevant stage the sounding
 circumstances, the normal human conduct of a prudent investor, the
 probabilities that may spill over, were all taken into consideration to
 negative the claim for exception made by the assessee. Therefore, the
 department was fully justified in taking note of the prevailing
 circumstances to decide against the assessees." It was thought fit to provide an opportunity to both sides to place their
arguments in the light of decision and we did so. In response, the Ld. AR filed
a Written-Submission dated 17.05.2022 and also made oral submission
during hearing. It is observed that the Ld. AR has re-iterated original
submissions. But, however, made one newer submission to distinguish the
applicability of the decision. Ld. AR submitted that the 84 scrips dealt in the
judgement / Investigation-Report do not include "Turbotech Engineering
Ltd." transacted by the assessee and therefore the decision is not applicable.
Contrary to this, Ld. DR has filed a letter dated 19.07.2022 accompanied by
the Investigation-Report which is dated 27.04.015 and titled as
"Investigation Report in the case of Project Bogus LTCG / STCL
Through BSE Listed Penny Stocks" released by Directorate of Income-
tax (Investigation), Kolkata. Ld. DR has pointed out that the name of
"Turbotech Engineering Ltd." is appearing in this Investigation-Report and
the share is identified as "Penny stock". We gainfully reproduce the relevant
paragraphs of the Report: (ii) The assessee has purchased shares for Rs. 1,77,192/- in cash on
 04.04.2012 and not through banking channel. This raises a very
 strong doubt in so far as the assessee has made purchases from a
 Bombay-based broker. The prevalent trend in the stock-market is to
 pay / receive through banking channel. How can assessee venture to
 pay a sum of Rs. 1,77,192/- in cash to a Bombay-based broker? Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15 (iii) On a careful perusal of Demat A/c, the Bench observed that the shares
 were credited in the Demat A/c of assessee on 08.10.2013 i.e. after a
 period of about 17 months from the date of purchase and just before
 the date of sale on 10.10.2013 / 17.10.2013. Therefore, the Bench
 raised a query as to where the shares had gone during the intervening
 period of 17 months from the date of purchase till the date of sale. In
 response, the Ld. DR replied that the share were held in the Pool A/c of
 broker. This makes the doubt even more stronger. As observed earlier
 the shares are claimed to have been purchased in cash on 04.04.2012.
 Now, in a situation where the assessee claims to have made purchase
 in cash, how is this believable that the assessee shall keep those
 shares in the Pool A/c of the broker and get in his own custody after
 17 months? (iv) On a careful perusal of the affidavit filed on page No. 117 / 118 of the
 Paper-Book, we observe that the assessee has made averments in two
 points, viz. Point No. 4 and Point No. 4. While in Point No. 4, the
 assessee is claiming to have purchased shares on the basis of
 messages of good-return received on the "mobiles of family members".
 But in Point No. 9, the assessee has re-averred that he had purchased
 and sold shares on the basis of message received on his "own mobile".
 Thus, there is a clear contraction in the averments of the assessee in
 the same affidavit. Even otherwise, the Ld. DR has expressed dis-
 satisfaction over this submission of assessee. (v) Lastly, under the scheme of section 10(38) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
 capital gain on transfer of shares, after holding for more than 12
 months, is exempted u/s 10(38) . The assessee has declared to have
 earned a whopping capital gain of Rs. 64,58,168/- on the basis of a
 meagre investment of Rs. 1,77,192/- and the relevant shares are
 claimed to have been purchased in cash and held in the pool account
 of broker for about 17 months. Thus, the assessee is not only declaring
 hefty gain but also claiming exemption u/s 10(38) in a period nearing Page 24 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

 12 months, which is in consonance with the modus operandi observed
 by the Investigation Wing in the Investigation-Report. Had the assessee
 not claimed any exemption or other benefit, but declared the income as
 normal income or business income and paid legitimate tax at normal
 rate, perhaps there would not have been suspicion or question-mark
 on the income declared by the assessee but this is not so in the
 present case. 18. The various factors, noted in the preceding paragraph, lead us to
conclude that the transactions claimed to have been done by the assessee
are surrounded by a thick cloud of glaring fallacies which demonstrate that
the impugned transactions are not genuine. 19. We also observe that the Hon'ble Chennai Bench of ITAT has also
decided a case in Sudha Eashwar Vs. ITO, ITA No. 2342/Chny/2019 ,
order dated 02.01.2020 on similar facts. The crucial facts of the case are
such that the scrip involved was Turbotech Engineering Ltd.; the assessee
purchased in cash on 22.11.2011; got transferred in her own demat A/c after
about 1 and half year; subsequently sold and declared a hefty capital gain.
On these facts which are analogous to the facts in present appeal, the
Hon'ble Co-ordinate Bench upheld the action of revenue in holding the
capital gain as bogus. We respectfully agree with the decision of Hon'ble Co-
ordinate Bench which is very much applicable to present appeal before us. 20. In view of foregoing discussions at length, we do not find any infirmity
in the action of lower authorities in rejecting the capital gain of Rs.
64,58,168/- declared by the assessee and treating the same as undisclosed
income u/s 68 . Hence we confirm the addition made by lower authorities.
This issue of assessee, therefore, fails. 21. Other issue raised by the assessee is with regard to the addition of Rs.
1,29,162/-. Ld. AO has made this addition on the premise that the assessee
must have certainly incurred expenditure @ 2% of Rs. 64,58,168/- in paying
commission / charges to the persons engaged for arranging bogus capital Page 25 of 27 Shri Abhishek Gupta ITA No.74/Ind/2019 Assessment year 2014-15

gain. We observe that the amount added by Ld. AO is reasonable and it does
not call for any interference by us. Hence no relief is warranted to the
assessee in that respect. The addition made by Ld. AO is therefore upheld.
This issue of assessee also fails. 22. Thus, both of the additions made by Ld. AO are hereby upheld and the
issues raised by the assessee fail. However, at this stage we would like to
make a note of caution, which though is a known aspect, that every case has
its own facts and evidences. This decision is confined to its own set of facts
and nothing general should be carried on the basis of this decision. 23. Before parting, we would like to place on record the commendable
representation made by counsels of both sides on behalf of the respective
parties. Both of the counsels have devoted full time and attempted well to put
forward the facts and their respective contentions. 24. In the result, this appeal of assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced as per Rule 34 of I.T.A.T., Rules, 1963 on

17.08.2022. 2. Date of typing & draft order placed before the
 Dictating Member 3. Date on which the approved draft comes to the
 Sr. P.S./P.S. 4. Date on which the fair order is placed before the
 Dictating Member for pronouncement 5. Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk 6. Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk 7. Date on which the file goes to the Assistant
 Registrar for signature on the order 8. Date of dispatch of the Order Page 27 of 27