Dama Seshadri Naidu, J. BACKGROUND: appointment in their parent-colleges, some could not

succeed. As few of such Lecturers could not secure re-

appointment, they submitted representation dated

19.08.1997 to the Government, setting out their grievances.

The Government, in turn, having called for the remarks of

the Director of Collegiate Education, came to realise that

those persons could not be re-accommodated for want of

vacancies. Remedially, acting on the recommendations of

the Director of Collegiate Education, Government issued

Ext.P14 order dated 04.02.1998, according sanction for

creation of supernumerary posts to absorb the teachers

named in the said Government Order. Since the first

respondent is one of the persons included in the list, he

submitted representations in Ext.P15 and Ext.P16 dated WA1645 & 1866/10 8 10.02.1998 and 24.02.1998 respectively to the appellant

imploring him to act on Ext.P14. Once again, the appellant,

it appears, did not respond. 10. While matters stood thus, Government issued

Ext.P17 order dated 17.05.1999, according sanction for

treating the period of service rendered by the teachers of

Government/aided colleges in Sree Sankaracharya

University of Sanskrit, on deputation. The petitioner

thereupon submitted Ext.P18 representation dated

27.05.1999, duly referring to Exts.P14 and P17, to the

appellant with a renewed request to permit him to join duty.

When there had been no response from the appellant, the

first respondent submitted Ext.P19 representation dated

15.09.1999 to the Director of Collegiate Education,

requesting to issue necessary directions to the appellant to

permit him to rejoin in the parent college. It remains that

neither the appellant nor the Director of Collegiate

Education acted on the representations of the first WA1645 & 1866/10 9 respondent. 11. With the stalemate continuing, Government

issued Ext.P21 order dated 10.03.2000, according sanction

for treating the period between the date of discharge of the

teachers from the University and the date on which they

rejoined their parent institutions as being on duty for all

purposes, except for pay and allowances. 12. As far as first respondent is concerned, since

there was no response either from the appellant or from the

authorities concerned to his various requests, he filed

Complaint No.152/1999 before the Kerala Lok Ayukta,

which, however, held that the complaint was not

maintainable. Under those circumstances, the first

respondent filed O.P.No.21638/2000 on 31.07.2000,

assailing the inaction of the appellant in implementing the

binding directives of the Government, namely, Exts.P11 and

P14. WA1645 & 1866/10 10 LIS PENDENS DEVELOPMENT: 13. Pending disposal of the OP, this Court, a learned

single Judge, issued an interim direction on 13.12.2005 to

the appellant to consider the representations of the 1st

respondent in Exts.P15, P16 and P18 and pass appropriate

orders thereon after affording him an opportunity of being

heard. In compliance thereof, the appellant passed Ext.P24

order dated 02.01.2007, rejecting the claim of the 1st

respondent. 14. By amending the pleadings, the 1st respondent

has also laid challenge against Ext.P24 rejection order.

THE IMPUGNED JUDGMENT: 15. The learned single Judge has, on appreciation of

the rival contentions, held that since the appellant, the

fourth respondent therein, did not choose to challenge

Exts.P11, P14 and other related Government Orders, he is

bound to implement them. When the Government, the

paymaster, have permitted the management to have a WA1645 & 1866/10 11 supernumerary post to accommodate the first respondent, it

cannot be heard contending otherwise. The learned single

Judge has poignantly observed that the first respondent had

been thrown out from service on 08.09.1997 and that, he

had been pursuing with the appellant management for

reinstatement, but without success. 16. Thus, the learned single Judge directed the

appellant to re-appoint the first respondent as Lecturer in

Hindi. The interregnum period from the date of the first

respondent's termination from the University till the date of

his re-appointment in the appellant college shall, however,

be reckoned for the purpose of seniority and pay fixation,

etc., but without pay and allowances for the said period.

WRIT APPEALS: 17. The appellant, being the fourth respondent in the

OP, filed W.A.No.1645/2010, assailing the direction of the

first respondent's re-appointment; whereas, the first

respondent, being the petitioner in the said OP, filed W.A. WA1645 & 1866/10 12 No.1866/2010, calling in question the deprivation of pay and

allowance for the period he had been kept out of service

after cessation of his employment in the University.

ORAL SUBMISSIONS: 18. Mr.Manu Govind, the learned counsel for the

appellant has, to begin with, submitted that Exts.P14, P17

and P21 orders have granted to the appellant college only a

privilege or liberty to re-appoint the 1st respondent. As such,

the proceedings being permissive in nature, it is not

incumbent on the appellant to comply with the said

proceedings, inasmuch as there is no peremptory direction

of binding nature. When a statute mandates a particular

thing to be done in a particular manner, or not at all, the

authorities cannot give a short shrift to the said statutory

mandate. In elaboration of his submissions, the learned

counsel for the appellant has submitted that Section 59(1A)

of the M.G.University Act stipulates that appointment of WA1645 & 1866/10 13 teachers to private colleges ought to be made by the

educational agency by direct recruitment on merits and

there shall be no executive orders in the manner of

Exts.P14, P17 and P21 compelling an appointment at

variance with the established procedure. In this regard, the

learned counsel has placed reliance on P. Bhaskaran v.

Addl . Secretary & Ors. (1987 KLJ 1461 (FB)). As to the

procedural parameters to be followed in the matters of

recruitment, the learned counsel has placed reliance on the

following decisions: Janardhanan v. Joint Registrar (1990

(1) KLT 530), Ganga Pratap Singh v. Allahabad Bank

Ltd. (AIR 1958 SC 293), Bharathidasan University v. All-

India Council for Technical Education ((2001) 8 SCC 676), Nawabkhan Abbaskhan v. State of Gujarat (( 1974) 2 SCC 121), Union of India v. Arulmozhi

Iniarasu ((2011) 7 SCC 397), Usman v. State of Kerala

( 2003 (1) KLT 2) and Mamleshwar Prasad v. Kanhaiya

Lal (AIR 1975 SC 907) and also the commentaries of Craig WA1645 & 1866/10 14 and de Smith on Administrative Law. 19. According to learned counsel for the appellant,

since Exts.P14, PP21 are in violation of the recruitment

procedure established by law, the appellant college has

rightly ignored them. It is the specific and repeated

contention of the learned counsel that challenge against an

executive order made by an authority bereft of power can be

made directly or collaterally. 20. The learned counsel has further contended that

the learned single Judge has accepted the proposition in

paragraphs 26 and 27 of the impugned judgment that there

can be a collateral attack, even without a formal challenge

directly. Having thus accepted the proposition, the learned

single Judge, contends the learned counsel, ought not have

proceeded further by issuing a mandamus for re-

appointment of the 1st respondent. 21. The learned counsel for the appellant has also

laid emphasis on the fact that 1st respondent has voluntarily WA1645 & 1866/10 15 tendered resignation. Once there is cessation of the

relationship of employer and employee, the question of re-

appointment does not arise. The re-induction of the 1st

respondent, according to the learned counsel, whatever

name it is to be called with, shall amount to a fresh

recruitment, for which the appellant is required to follow

the statutory procedure. 22. Referring to the judgment rendered by another

learned single Judge of this Court in Narayanan v.

Manager, S. D. College (2001 (3) KLT 592), the learned

counsel has stated that though it was at the behest of

persons similarly placed like the 1st respondent, the decision

is per incuriam, apart from being sub silentio on the

question of vires. The learned counsel has also pointed out

that Narayanan was allowed on the premise that

Government have the plenary powers to do justice.

According to the learned counsel, unlike in the USA, police

power is not available to the executive in India and that, WA1645 & 1866/10 16 plenary powers rest with the court, but not with the

Government. In this regard, the learned counsel has placed

reliance on State of W.B. v. Subodh Gopal Bose (AIR

1954 SC 92). On the question of binding nature of what is

said to be a per incuriam decision, the learned counsel has

placed reliance on the celebrated commentary, Salmond on

Jurisprudence (Para 2, page 153, 12th edition). 23. The learned counsel has also submitted that the

1st respondent has an efficacious alternative remedy against

the refusal of the appellant to re-appoint him, inasmuch as

the order of refusal is appealable under Section 59(9) of the

M.G.University Act. According to the learned counsel, the

power to appoint also encompasses the power to reject.

Summing up his submissions, the learned counsel for the

appellant college has urged before this Court to allow the

writ appeal, thereby setting aside the judgment of the

learned single Judge in its entirety. WA1645 & 1866/10 17 FOR THE 1ST RESPONDENT: 24. Per contra, the learned counsel for the 1st

respondent has submitted that, all through, the appellant

has exhibited a grossly nonchalant attitude towards rule of

law, including judicial directives of this Court. In elaboration

of his submissions, the learned counsel has submitted that

beginning from 1997 till 2000, when 1st respondent filed the

original petition, he went on making representations to the

appellant, some of them being Exts.P13, P15, P16 and P18.

The appellant, however, has not chosen to respond, at least

by placing on record the reasons for its persistent refusal to

follow the Government Orders. The learned counsel has

drawn our attention to the fact that present writ appeal

came to be filed only belatedly when 1st respondent filed a

contempt petition against the appellant for not complying

with the judgment of the learned single Judge. 25. Placing reliance on Mohinder Singh Gill v.

Chief Election Commissioner (AIR 1978 SC 851), the WA1645 & 1866/10 18 learned counsel for the 1st respondent has further

contended that since the appellant has not provided any

reasons for not obeying Exts.P11 and P14 either to the 1st

respondent or to the Government at the earliest point of

time, it cannot be allowed to supply reasons through

counter affidavits before this Court. In this regard, the

learned counsel has also drawn our attention to Ext.P24,

which was passed by the appellant in compliance with an

interim direction of this Court in the original petition.

According to learned counsel, even the said exhibit does not

contain any reasons worth the name to justify what is said to

be the recalcitrant attitude of the appellant management. 26. The learned counsel for the 1st respondent has

also strenuously contended that there is no illegality or

arbitrariness in the action of the Government in directing

the appellant to re-employ the 1st respondent. The

Government, having duly taken into account the peculiar

circumstances, have exercised its plenary powers by WA1645 & 1866/10 19 creating supernumerary posts, apart from undertaking to

bear the financial burden, to rehabilitate those persons who

lost employment for no fault of theirs. The learned counsel

has also referred to Sections 62, 72, 77, 100 and 101 of the

M.G.University Act to drive home the point that Government

have the necessary power in this regard. In support thereof,

he has placed reliance on Patel Vaneers (P) Ltd., v.

Regional P.P. Commissioner (1988 (1) KLT 843). 27. The learned counsel for the 1st respondent has

summoned all his forensic skills to repel the contention of

the appellant that Exts.P11 and P14 are orders void ab initio

and that they can be challenged even collaterally, as and

when their implementation falls for consideration before any

judicial forum. As a matter of alternative submission,

without conceding on the aspect of voidness, the learned

counsel has further contended that even when a

Government Order is void or avoidable, it binds, unless the

same is quashed or set aside through duly constituted legal WA1645 & 1866/10 20 proceedings. According to him, there cannot be any

collateral challenge to any Governmental directive. On this

issue, to countervail the judicial precedents cited by the

appellant, learned counsel for the 1st respondent has placed

reliance on the following decisions: Jose.T.A. and

Company v. State of Kerala ( 2009 (3) KLT 62), State of

Punjab v. Gurdev Singh ((1991) 4 SCC 1),

Gopalakrishnan Nair N. K. v. State of Kerala (ILR 1992

(3) Kerala 739), Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana

(AIR 1987 SC 454), Pune Municipal Corpn., v. State of

Maharashtra (( 2007) 5 SCC 211), Krishnadevi Malchand

Kamathia v. Bombay Environmental Action Group ((2011) 3 SCC 363), Pavithran v. State of Kerala ( 2009

(4) KLT 20 (FB)) and MCD v. Qimat Rai Gupta ((2007) 7

SCC 309). 28. The learned counsel has submitted that 1st

respondent began his efforts in 1997 to secure re-

employment in his parent college, the appellant, on the WA1645 & 1866/10 21 strength of the binding directives of the Government, the

paymaster and went on waging the legal battle for nearly a

decade and half. Presently, pending the writ appeal, 1st

respondent attained the age of superannuation in March

2014 and deemed to have retired from service. 29. The learned counsel for the 1st respondent has

also sought to sustain Exts.P11, P14, P17 and P21 with

statutory support under Sections 56, 62(2)(b), 77, 100 and

101 of the M.G.University Act. These provisions shall be

referred to and discussed at a later stage of our

adjudication. 30. Eventually, the learned counsel for the 1st

respondent has assailed, what is in his view, the inadequacy

of the judgment under challenge. According to the learned

counsel, having held that the appellant college had not been

justified in refusing to implement the Government Orders,

the learned single Judge, contends the learned counsel,

ought not to have stopped short of providing full relief, WA1645 & 1866/10 22 including the pay and allowance for the interregnum, to the

1st respondent. In this regard, the learned counsel has

placed reliance on the following dewcisions: 31. Adverting to the residuary powers of the

executive, the learned counsel for the 1st respondent has

submitted that the action of the Government in directing re-

instatement or re-appointment of the 1st respondent is by

way of exercise of its incidental powers. In this regard, the

learned counsel has placed reliance on Khargram

Panchayat Samiti v. State of W.B. ((1987) 3 SCC 82). 32. The learned counsel has referred to Section 20 of

T.C. Interpretation & General Clauses Act, to stress the

point that respondent authorities have ample powers to take WA1645 & 1866/10 23 remedial steps regarding employment in the Government

and aided educational institutions. Accordingly, learned

counsel has submitted that the judgment impugned suffers

from no legal infirmities and therefore, does not call for any

interference. REPLY SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT: 33. In reply, the learned counsel for the appellant,

after recapitulating his earlier submissions, has further

contended that once an order is found to be illegal, no

mandamus can be issued in its support, otherwise, it would

amount to giving judicial imprimatur to an illegality. He has

further contended that granting the relief of mandamus can

always be resisted by the respondent notwithstanding the

ways and means available to the 1st respondent to call in

question the very orders, which formed the basis for the

mandamus sought. In support of the said submission, the

learned counsel for the appellant has placed reliance on the

following decisions: State of U.P. v. Desh Raj ((2007) 1 WA1645 & 1866/10 24 SCC 257), State of Rajasthan v. D.R.Laxmi ((1996) 6 SCC 445), Govt. of A.P. v. K.Brahmanandam ((2008) 5 SCC 241) and State of Orissa v. Prasana Kumar Sahoo ((2007) 15 SCC 129). The learned counsel has also referred

to certain portions of the celebrated commentary on the

Administrative Law by Wade & Forsyth. THE ISSUES: 34. Before we proceed further to appreciate the

dictum laid down in the plethora of precedents cited at the

Bar by both the learned counsel, it is well to bear in mind

the adjuration in Union of India v. Arulmozhi Iniarasu ((2011) 7 SCC 397), on the application of precedents. The

well-settled principle of law in the matter of applying

precedents is that the Court should not place reliance on the

decisions without discussing as to how the fact situation of

the case before it fits in with the fact situation of the

decision on which reliance is placed. The observations of the WA1645 & 1866/10 26 courts are neither to be read as Euclid's theorems nor as

the provisions of the Statute and that too taken out of their

context. Disposal of cases by blindly placing reliance on a

decision is not proper because one additional or different

fact may make a world of difference between conclusions in

two cases. The Previous Judicial Proceedings: 35. Is it pertinent to observe that the very same

proceedings that have been challenged presently were the

subject matter of some other earlier writ petitions. In one

particular instance, namely in Narayanan v. Manager,

S.D. College (2001 (3) KLT 592), a learned single Judge of

this Court has upheld the validity of Exts.P11 and P14. It

appears that learned counsel for the appellant has cited this

judgment pre-emptively to distinguish it on facts. 36. Though the petitioner in the above case and the

1st respondent in the present instance are similarly placed in

substantial terms, there is one marked difference. When his WA1645 & 1866/10 27 employer refused leave, the first respondent resigned from

the post and joined the University; in Narayanan, the

petitioner went on deputation. In that context, a learned

single Judge of this Court has observed thus: It is the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant

that, since first respondent resigned, the case on Narayanan

does not have any application. He has further contended

that Narayanan, by implication, made it clear that the

benefit of Exts.P11 and P14 cannot be extended to an

employee who resigned from the post. 37. True, the binding nature of a decision turns upon

its facts and a decision is a precedent on what it actually

decides. In the same breath, it is to be stated that in WA1645 & 1866/10 28 Narayanan the adjudication does not take into fold the case

of a resigned employee. In our considered view, the

reference to the instance of supposed non-applicability of

the proceedings of the Government to an employee who

resigned from the parent institution is, at best, only an

obiter. As such, it can safely be held that the issue of

applicability of Government Orders to a resigned employee

remains an unexplored arena. 38. Though, neither party to the present proceedings

is affected by the judicial pronouncement in Narayanan to

the extent stated above, there is another issue which stood

decided. As has been contended by the learned counsel for

the appellant, in Narayanan too, the respondents raised an

objection that the Government have absolutely no right to

intervene in administrative matters of private colleges.

Repelling the said contention, it was held in Narayanan that

under the subsisting system, as evidenced by Ext.P16

Government Order therein, Government have the WA1645 & 1866/10 29 responsibility to pay for those teachers and as such

Government have control over sanction of posts in the

matter of prescribing the method of appointment of

teachers and in the matter of promotions. Such general

powers will certainly include the power to intervene in

administering justice to the persons who were on deputation

to the University when the deputation has ceased to be

effective. Indeed, this observation, on all force, applies to

the appellant institution as well. In re, Issue No.1: 39. The primary contention of the learned counsel for

the appellant is that Exts.P11, P17 and P21 orders are

permissive in nature, granting privilege or liberty to the

appellant to re-appoint the 1st respondent. 40. Ext.P11, G.O.(Rt.)No.302/1997/H.Edn. dated

17.03.1997, is the first order issued by the Government

extending the particular benefit as a matter of policy

decision to a group of persons, who have been displaced or WA1645 & 1866/10 30 retrenched from their previous employment, thereby

treating them as separate class. Rest of the orders, such as

Exts.P17 and P21, are consequential in nature. To

appreciate whether Ext.P11 is only a privilege granted to

the appellant college to re-appoint the 1st respondent, it is

appropriate to examine the tone and tenor of the said

exhibit. The concluding paragraphs 3 and 4 of Ext.P11 are

as follows: 41. Going by the above comment order, if any liberty is

given or privilege is extended, it is to the displaced WA1645 & 1866/10 31 employees, including the 1st respondent, but not to the

colleges in which they earlier worked. Since Government

made re-employment of the displaced teachers contingent

on the existence of vacancies, Government later issued

Ext.P14 order creating supernumerary posts. The

consequential orders, Exts.P17 and P2, do not differ much in

the scope and ambit to conclude that they are in any way

permissive in nature. We, therefore, are inclined to hold that

Exts.P11, P17 and P21 are peremptory and binding, subject

to their validity, which aspect is discussed hereinbelow.

In re: Issue No.2: 42. As can be seen, the appellant college, an aided

private college affiliated to Mahathma Gandhi Univeristy

(M.G. University), is primarily governed by the provisions of

the M.G.University Act, especially Sections 59(1) and (1 A) of

the Act . Since, the appellant has raised the issue of ultra

vires, it is profitable to extract Sections 59(1) and (1A), WA1645 & 1866/10 32 which are as follows: 43. Before discussing the statutory impact on the

issue on hand, we may have to examine a few more

provisions of the Act. Indeed, the administrator of a private

college is the Manager, whose powers and obligations are

dealt with under Section 76 of the Act. A perusal of the said

section makes it amply clear that sub-section (7) thereof

mandates that the Manager shall abide by the instructions

issued by the Government or the University, lest he should

be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. We, therefore, are

required to proceed further with our discussion on this

statutory foundation that appellant is bound to honour and WA1645 & 1866/10 33 abide by the administrative directions, leaving aside the

statutory stipulations of the Government. 44. It is further relevant to refer to Sections 77 , 100 and 101 of the Act. Government can exercise its powers

under Section 100 to make first Statutes and Ordinances.

Once those first Statutes and Ordinances are kept in place,

according to learned counsel for the appellant, Government

renders itself `functus officio' and as such, cannot exercise

any control either over the University or affiliated colleges.

Attractive as the submission appears, on deeper scrutiny, it

is to be held that the power under Section 100 of the Act is

legislative in character. Ipso facto, it does not mean that

Government ceases to have any administrative control on

the institutions, albeit to the extent statutorily permissible, a

case in point being Section 56 of the Act. 45. Though, learned counsel for the 1st respondent

has placed reliance on the rule making power of the

Government under Section 100 of the Act, we are afraid, it WA1645 & 1866/10 34 may not come to his rescue, as exercise of the said power is

circumscribed by legislative approval and essentially,

exercise of the said rule making power ought to be

legislative, rather than administrative in character. In any

event, here the issue is whether Exts.P11, P14, P17 and P21

issued by the Government have come in conflict with any

legislative mandate rendering themselves void, travelling

beyond the realm of mere illegality. 46. The provision relied on by the learned counsel for

the 1st respondent is Section 101 of the Act. This clause is a

legislative device available to the executive to exercise its

delegated rule making power to tide over the unforeseen

contingencies that may arise in enforcing the parent

enactment. In Administrative Law parlance, it is called

Henry VIII Clause. Given its potential, at times, to be

abused, it is associated with executive autocracy, as has

been symbolised by 16th Century King of England, Henry

VIII. WA1645 & 1866/10 35 47. Section 101, as is well established, enables the

Government to remove the difficulties in implementation of

the parent enactment, the pre-condition being that the

purported act of removal shall not be inconsistent with the

provisions of the parent Act. Be that as it may, in the

manner stated above, Section 101 is only a legislative

devise, but not a carte blanche for overcoming the day-to-

day administrative exigencies. 48. At any rate, Section 62(2)(b) of the Act, relied on

by the learned counsel for the 1st respondent, has some

bearing on the issue, though it may not be squarely

applicable to the present case. It is profitable to extract the

said provision, which is as follows: 49. Keeping Section 62(2)(b) of the Act in

juxtaposition with Section 59(1) and (1 A) of the Act , we may

see that it is the prerogative of the Government to sanction

posts in private Government colleges. In this case, under

peculiar circumstances, Government have created

supernumerary posts. True, regular appointment in the

usual course ought to be by way of direct recruitment on the

basis of merit. If we examine Section 62 of the Act, it begins

with a non-obstante clause of an expansive nature. If a

teacher has been relieved from a private college for any

other reason than disciplinary action against him, he shall

be given preference in the matter of future appointments in

the private college. 50. In the present instance, Government have

created supernumerary posts and it being a college covered

by Direct Payment Agreement, have agreed to pay the

salary, without putting any financial burden on the appellant WA1645 & 1866/10 37 college. It has asked, nay directed, in terms of Section 56(7) of the Act, the appellant to re-employ its former employee,

who has been made a victim of a collateral damage caused

by certain judicial proceedings, in which he had essentially

no say. In other words, Government have, as a matter of

public policy, desired to mitigate the deprivation of

livelihood suffered by a group of people, who formed

distinct class deserving the indulgence of the State. 51. It is fallacious to contend that always recourse

shall be taken to regular recruitment from open market

under all circumstances. There can be exceptions, as has

been demonstrated statutorily in Section 62(2)(b). The

public employment, after all, is the sovereign prerogative of

the State exercised through its Executive branch. 52. The upshot of the above discussion is that, among

other provisions, as per Section 56(7) of the Act,

Government can bind the appellant college with its

directions and directives. As per Section 59 of the Act, it can WA1645 & 1866/10 38 create posts and as per Section 62(2)(b) of the Act, there

can be exceptions to regular open recruitment.

Inherent and Incidental Powers: 53. To begin with, Articles 73 and 162 of the

Constitution of India are constitutional recognition of the

inherent powers of the Executive. It is, indeed, in

consonance with the constitutional concept of welfare state.

It has attained the status of a truism to state that the extent

and scope of general administrative power of modern

Government cannot be defined precisely. The power is

amorphous, unstructured, broad and undefined.

Government can carry on general administration so long as

it does not infringe a constitutional or legal provision or

does not infringe on legal right of any person. 54. Formulation of policy and its implementation is

pre-eminently a function of the Executive and the task of the

Executive is facilitated by the Parliamentary system of

Government which operates both at the Centre and the WA1645 & 1866/10 39 States in India. An important point to note with respect to

functioning of the administrative organ is that it does not

always need a statutory authorisation to act and execute a

policy. Many a time, the administration can implement

policies without any statutory sanction. Government are not

confined to discharge only such functions as specifically

conferred on it by the legislation or the Constitution. The

executive power is not, however, free from ultimate

legislative control (see MP Jain & SN Jain's Principles of

Administrative Law, Vol.1, 7th Edn.). 55. It pays to remind oneself of the subtlety between

powers which are inherent and those which are incidental.

Incidental powers are the necessary concomitants to the

substantive power, which have its origin in some statute or

another. Inherent power is the power that is de hors the

statutory sanction, but, at any rate, not in conflict with it

either. An incidental power is too inherent in its true nature,

likened to species and genus classification. WA1645 & 1866/10 40 56. In this regard, we may observe that when

challenge was laid on the ground that appointments were

made without making statutory rules, a Constitution Bench

of the Supreme Court in B. N. Nagarajan v. State of

Mysore (AIR 1966 SC 1942) has held that nothing in the

terms of Article 309 of the Constitution that abridges the

power of the executive to act under Article 162 of the

Constitution without law. It is hardly necessary to mention

that if there is a statutory rule or an act on the matter, the

executive must abide by that act or rule and it cannot in

exercise of the executive power under Article 162 of the

Constitution ignore or act contrary to that rule or act. 57. In Panchayat Samiti v. State of W.B. , ((1987)

3 SCC 82), the Supreme Court has judicially acknowledged

the incidental powers enjoyed by the administrative

authorities. In fact, their Lordships have quoted with

approval the comment of the learned author de Smith in his

celebrated work Judicial Review of Administrative Action, WA1645 & 1866/10 41 4th Edn. at p. 95, which is as follows: This principle was enunciated by Lord
 Selborne in Attorney-General v. Great Eastern
 Railway (LR (1880) 5 AC 473) in these words: Is it a Police Power? 58. According to learned counsel for the appellant,

Government issued Exts.P11 and P14 orders exercising the

police powers of the State and that under Indian

Constitution the Executive does not have the police powers. WA1645 & 1866/10 42 59. With clear demarcation of legislative fields under

Artticles 245 and 246 of the Constitution, read with

Schedule VII and with residuary powers remaining with the

Union, India has never had the need of adopting the vague

and indefinite doctrine of police powers, first propounded by

Chief Justice John Marshall in Brown v. Maryland [25 U.S.

419 (1827)]. In Lochner v. New York (198 U.S. 45 (1905),

Justice Peckham, delivering the majority opinion, has

himself stated that 'police powers' is vaguely termed and its

exact description and limitation has not been attempted by

the Courts. 60. In Charanjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union of India (AIR 1951 SC 41), a Constitution Bench of the Supreme

Court has observed that in interpreting the provisions of our

Constitution, we should go by the plain words used by the

Constitution-makers and the imparting expression like

'police power', which is a term of variable and indefinite

connotation in American law, can only make the task of WA1645 & 1866/10 43 interpretation more difficult. It has subsequently been

affirmed by other Constitution Benches of the Supreme

Court. It was declared to be antithetical to Indian

Constitutional scheme in State of West Bengal v. Subodh

Gopal Bose . The fact, however, remains that, on occasions,

the doctrine of police powers has been employed by the

Courts in India in the context of res extra commercium. 61. In fact, in common law terms, police powers is

not confined to regulating law and order but are matters of

policy, thus `policy power'. Etymologically, police and policy

have common origin. Outside the issues trade privileges in

noxious substances, this doctrine has not survived in India.

It cannot be stated that exercise of every inherent or even

incidental executive power ought to be traced to a non-

available constitutional source, namely 'police powers'. 62. Accordingly, we do not hesitate to hold that

action of the Government in issuing Exts.P11, P14, P17 and

P21 is not ultra vires, their administrative power under the WA1645 & 1866/10 44 Act are in terms of the residuary constitutional provision,

namely Artticle 162 of the Constitution. 63. Before proceeding further, we are required to

answer the contention of the 1st respondent that under

Section 20 of T.C.Interpretation & General Clauses Act,

1125, Government have the plenary power to add, to

amend, vary or rescind orders, rules or bye-laws. They have

all been, as per Section 20 , subsumed in 'the power to

make'. Be that as it may, the very section, as is indicated by

its body, speaks of the legislative power of the executive as

a delegate of the legislature. It does not concern itself with

the power of the executive to discharge its day-to-day

functions, which are mostly non-statutory. This aspect does

not, in our view, require any further adjudication.

In re: Issue Nos.3 & 4: 64. The issue at the core of the matter is determination

of sustainability of collateral challenge to an executive

measure of the State vis-`-vis one of its instrumentalities, WA1645 & 1866/10 45 which, in fact, has chosen to defend its action, rather

inaction, by laying a collateral challenge to the supposed

invalidity of the said executive measure, in its defence to a

charge in a judicial review. The learned counsel for the

appellant college has placed strong reliance on various

pronouncements of the English Courts, as have been

reflected in the noted commentaries on English

Administrative Law. As such, it is essential to note the

jurisprudential divergence, if any, between the English Law

and the Indian Law, confining the discussion only to the

aspect of collateral challenge, though. Continental Contours of Administrative Law: 65. It is to be seen that copious references have been

made by the learned counsel for the appellant to various

commentaries on this issue by the redoubtable English

Authors. In due deference to their wisdom, it is still to be

stated that the English jurisprudential fidelity to the

principle of Wednesbury is too steadfast, for too long a time, WA1645 & 1866/10 46 to the comfort of the cross currents of the droit

administratif demands from the Continental France or to the

American administrative advances from across the Atlantic.

In the meanwhile, Indian Administrative Jurisprudence took

a leap - a leap of liberality - to temper the tentative and

nascent field of administrative law with the fortifying factor

of Article 14 of the Constitution, to suggest one aspect of its

growth. 66. Even otherwise, on a comparative scale, in the

formative years of the branch of Administrative Law, which

is still nebulous and amorphous, England had the shackles

of the Diceyan Rule of Law; the USA, the doctrinaire

dilemma of the Separation of Powers; and India, none. 67. The issue of collateral challenge is a procedural

remedy against the orders which are manifestly void.

Contextually, it can be stated that an administrative order

can be void on two counts: audi alteram partem and ultra

vires. Since Exts.P11, P14, P17 and P21 are not quasi- WA1645 & 1866/10 47 judical in nature, ever so thin the distinction has been, we

are not concerned with the aspect of principles of natural

justice. The remaining aspect is the issue of ultra vires. It

needs no reiteration that an order which is ultra vires is

void. Now, the question is whether the aspect of voidness

admits all degrees or it is absolute, as etymologically the

expression suggests. If an order is void with or without its

shades of grey, what is the remedial measure to be taken

against it. Thus, voidness is the substantial problem and

collateral challenge is one of its remedies. 68. Jurisprudentially, English Courts have all along

conceptual concerns regarding the desirability of admitting

the degrees of voidness and also the jural distinction

between a void act and a voidable one. Indian jurisprudence

has, all along, steered clear of this controversy. This, in fact,

prompted the learned authors MP Jain and SN Jain to

observe apropos the principle of audi alterem partem that

the judicial dicta in Britain is inconsistent and confusing WA1645 & 1866/10 48 (see Principles of Administrative Law, page 655, vol. 1, 7th

Edn.). Further, despite the decision in Anisminic Ltd. v.

Foreign Compensation Commission (1969 AC 147), we

still maintain, in the matters of judicial review, a clear

distinction between errors of jurisdiction and errors in

exercise of jurisdiction. Evidently, errors of jurisdiction are

matters of inherent lack of jurisdiction and only those orders

suffering from such errors of jurisdiction alone can be

termed as void. Thus, essentially, the English Commentaries

on the issue cited at the Bar by the learned counsel for the

appellant have to be appreciated only in the light of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 69. Be that as it may, on factual front, it could be

observed that first respondent and many other persons like

him, looking out for greener pastures and better career

prospects, chose to join Sree Sanaracharya Universty,

having been duly selected pursuant to an employment

notification. Some institutions were accommodative in WA1645 & 1866/10 49 sending the selectees to the University on deputation basis;

some insisted that the employee could leave the parent

institution at his own peril, by resigning. In fact, the first

respondent, on his failure to secure leave, did resign from

the appellant college to join the University. Later, selection

of the first respondent and his batch gave rise to certain

litigation. Eventually, this Court through judgment in Sree

Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit v. State (1996 (2)

KLT 378) declared that the teachers thus recruited had to

be repatriated. 70. When first respondent and his batch were caught

in the web of litigation and were eventually ousted from

their newly secured employment, they looked upon the

Government as their saviour. Under those circumstances, it

felt to the Government to ameliorate their difficulties and

redress their grievances. COLLATERAL CHALLENGE: 71. 'Collateral Challenge', variably referred to as WA1645 & 1866/10 50 'Collateral Attack' as defined in Black's Law Dictionary, is as

follows: 72. On the scope and content of collateral challenge

or attack, the Australian High Court (the Apex Court) in

Ousley v. The Queen, has thus to say: 73. As a matter of established judicial convention,

collateral challenge of governmental actions have been

restricted to cases in which Governmental act under

challenge is alleged to be ultra vires or in excess of

jurisdiction and is consequencially void. This approach,

however, is not without challenge. Its application to criminal

proceedings is too well established to be cavilled about, that

no person shall be made to lose his liberty on the basis of a

provision, which remained in the statute books, but for lack

of judicial challenge to its vires. In Director of Public

Prosecutions v. Head [(1959) AC 83], Lord Somervell of

Harrow has put it thus at P.104: 74. Further, a court established under a statute, in

contra-distinction to constitutional courts, do not enjoy

much adjudicatory discretion, since they function on the

premise of ubi jus ibi remedium, subject to the statutory

mandate, though. On the other hand, judicial review in itself

is a collateral challenge against the State in terms of Article

12 and against the Government or other authorities in terms

of Article 226 of the Constitution. They are discretionary

and can be refused, despite the suitor meeting all the

requirements, under well established principles governing

the prerogative writs. The issue of laches and equity may

also weigh with the courts. By laying a collateral challenge,

the 1st respondent, who ought to have approached the court

for a positive relief, may as well use this shield to

circumvent those limitations. 75. Neil Parpworth, in his Constitutional and

Administrative Law (p.263, 7th Edn., Oxford), accepting

existence of the general principle that public law decisions WA1645 & 1866/10 53 ought to be challenged by way of judicial review, opines that

it raises a related issue - Whether such a principle prevents

a person from challenging the validity of a public law

decision in proceedings brought against him? In short, can a

public law matter be used as a shield or as a sword, or does

the principle require that in those circumstances, an

application for judicial review should be made? He

underlines the importance of the answer to those questions

by saying that the issue is clearly important from a practical

stand point. It also has wider ramifications in terms of

justice and fairness. Is it right that an individual should be

denied defense in a proceedings brought against him merely

because he could have instituted proceedings himselve?

Should a person be convicted under a law that would have

been held to be invalid on the ground that it had been

challenged in judicial review proceedings? The unfairness

may be greater in the event of a criminal prosecution, but

injustice would still exist in civil proceedings. WA1645 & 1866/10 54 76. Early in 1984, in Wandsworth London

Borough Council v. Winder ((1984) 3 All ER 976), the

House of Lords decided the issue in the affirmative. But, as

recently as in 2000, in Wandsworth London Borough

Council v. A - ((2000) 1 WLR 1246), though following

Winder, the Court acknowledged that there were some

practical difficulties in that conclusion. The Court has,

indeed, further acknowledged that such a development was

not to be welcomed. 77. If we examine further, in Bugg v. DPP ((1993) 2

All ER 815), the Law Lords have sought to maintain the

distinction between substantive and procedural invalidity. It

was thus held that in criminal proceedings for contravention

of a bye-law, the court had the jurisdiction to determine the

issue of substantive invalidity, but did not have the

jurisdiction to determine whether or not the bye-law was

procedurally invalid. But, in R v. Wicks ((1997) 2 All ER 801), Bugg was doubted. Eventually, in Boddington v. WA1645 & 1866/10 55 British Transport Police ((1998) 2 All ER 203), Bugg was

over ruled. Notwithstanding the doubts expressed in

Wandsworth London Borough Council v. A.Boddington

it has ever since been constantly followed by the English

Courts. In R (W) v Director of Public Prosecutions (2005

EWCA Civ 1333), proceedings for the breach of Antisocial

Behaviour Order (ASBO) were issued pursuant to the Crime

and Disorder Act 1998. In that context, the Court has held

that it was permissible for the defence to rely on the alleged

invalidity of the order in answer to the charge. However,

Brooke LJ sought to limit application of the principle as

follows: 78. Fluctuating as the judicial dicta have been, Chief

Justice Bray of the Supreme Court of South Australia [the

federal apex court of Australia paradoxically being the High

Court] in Hinton Demolitions Pty. Ltd., v. Lower (No.2)

((1971) 1 S.A.S.R 512), has observed as follows: The celebrated Administrative Law experts, de Smith, Woolf

& Jowells, in their Principles of Judicial Review (Sweet &

Maxwell, 1999) at page 129, has summarized the position in

relation to collateral attack as follows: 79. In Judicial Review in Public Law, (p.206, 1st Edn.

South India, 2011), Clive lewis Q.C, has observed as follows: 80. In Administrative Law Text and Materials (p.106,

Oxford, 3rd Edn.), Mark Elliott speaks of the limits of WA1645 & 1866/10 59 collateral challenge in the following manner: Collateral Challenge - the Indian View: 81. The Courts have mostly approached the issue on

the premise of ultra vires and voidness and have

consistently held that anything ultra vires and void ab inito

can be challenged collaterally. For this reason,

precedentially direct reference to collateral challenge as a

weapon of offence to a defendant are not too numerous. 82. In Pankaj Bhargava v. Mohinder Nath ((1991)

1 SCC 556), the Supreme Court has addressed the issue as

follows: (See:568)

 "20. [S]uffice it to say that in a collateral
 challenge the exercise is not the invalidation
 of a decision, but only to ascertain whether
 the decision "exists" in law at all and to rely WA1645 & 1866/10 60 upon incidents and effect of its "non- existence". The authority of decided cases is
 to the effect that the permission granted must
 be presumed to be valid till set aside. Doctrine of collateral challenge will not apply
 to a decision which is valid ex-hypothesi and
 which has some presumptive existence,
 validity and effect in law. Such a decision can
 be invalidated by the right person in right
 proceedings brought at the right time. It is
 only a nullity stemming from lack of inherent
 jurisdiction or a proceeding that wears the
 brand of invalidity on its forehead that might
 afford a defence even against enforcement..." 83. The problem of the penumbral patterns of

collateral challenge has been felicitously stated in London

& Clydeside Estates Ltd. v. Aberdeen D.C. ((1973) 3 All. E.R. 876) (as quoted in Pankaj Bhargava v. Mohinder

Nath ((1991) 1 SCC 556): (All ER p. 883)

 "In this appeal we are in the field of the
 rapidly developing jurisprudence of
 administrative law, and we are considering
 the effect of non-compliance by a statutory
 authority with the statutory requirements
 affecting the discharge of one of its
 functions...." (emphasis original) 84. Continuing in the same vein, we can state that a

collateral challenge or attack is clearly permissible against

orders or judgments obtained by playing fraud and such

other vitiating factors, as can be seen, for instance, in WA1645 & 1866/10 62 matrimonial proceedings. 85. In Nawabkhan Abbaskhan v. State of Gujarat ((1974) 2 SCC 121), it is prefatorily stated on the issue to be

decided that the appeal raises a thorny issue of some

importance which may be epigramatically expressed as

when has the citizen the discretion to disobey an order?

When is a determination not a determination? This riddle

has to be solved in the foggy legal light of conflicting

decisions and academic opinions, Indian and Anglo-

American. 86. In that case, the appellant violated an externment

order passed under the Bombay Police Act, 1951 , but was

acquitted of the charge in the trial that ensued. The High

Court of Bombay, on appeal, convicted the appellant. In the

meanwhile, during the pendency of the criminal trial, the

very externment order was quashed in a parallel proceeding

under Article 226 of Constitution of India. The fact,

however, remains that quashing took place one year after WA1645 & 1866/10 63 the violation. Under these circumstances, what fell for

consideration was the freedom of movement guaranteed

under Article 19(1)(b) of the Constitution, as could be seen

from the observation of the Supreme Court: The vital

freedom guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution

becomes a fleeting fragrance if a police or magisterial

officer can whisk you away by a more-executive-than judicial

fiat. The observation of the Supreme Court in this regard

bears reproduction, and is as follows: 87. Since the order violated the audi alterm partem

principle, thereby affecting the fundamental rights of a

person, the Supreme Court has held that the order of

externment is void ab initio. Once it is void ab initio, its

invalidity is retroactive, as if it were non-existent. Ipso facto,

quashing of the order one year after its violation is of no

consequence. It is stated that it can be disregarded and

impeached in any proceedings, before any court or tribunal

and whenever it is relied upon; in other words, it is subject

to 'collateral attack'. 88. Placing reliance on Ridge v. Baldwin (1964 AC 40), Rubinstein (Discretion to Disobey), etc., the Supreme

Court took note of the adjudicatory difficulties faced by the

Courts in demarcating the boundaries of the orders which

are void and which are voidable. Yet again, it is worth

quoting the inimitable expressions of the centenarian, V. R.

Krishna Iyyer, J: WA1645 & 1866/10 65 (emphasis in italics original) 89. Substantially, this is the difficulty that presents

itself in the present case too. In any event, the issue in the

above case arises in criminal proceedings, in which the

collateral challenge has its place cemented. Further,

voidness is on the ground of violation of audi alterm partem,

regarding which no shades of opinion exists. 90. It is of interest to observe that in M.Rukmani

Devi v. The Chief Educational Officer (1996 (2) CTC 577), a Division Bench of the High Court of Madras has

dealt with somewhat a similar issue as we have on hand

now. 91. In this case, after placing a teacher under

suspension and subjecting her to departmental enquiry, the

management of the school recommends the Government to

remove her from service. The educational authorities in the WA1645 & 1866/10 67 Government, apart from rejecting the recommendation of

the school management, directed reinstatement of the

teacher. The school management has persistently refused to

reinstate the teacher in compliance with the direction of the

competent authority. The aggrieved teacher approached the

court. 92. Before the court, the management has contended

that the Educational Officer has no authority to pass such

an order of reinstatement. It has also contended that the

very order was passed without giving an opportunity to it. In

that context, the Division Bench has observed as follows: Analysis of the Authorities cited at the Bar: 93. In State of Rajasthan v. D.R. Laxmi ((1996) 6

SCC 445), the question is whether absence of publication of

the substance of the notification under Section 4(1) of the

Land Acquisition Act in the locality renders the entire

proceedings void? 94. In that context, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held that, the order or action, if ultra vires the power,

becomes void and it does not confer any right. Their

Lordships, however, proceeded further to observe that the

action need not necessarily be set at naught in all events.

Though the order may be void, if the party does not

approach the Court within reasonable time, which is always

a question of fact and have the order invalidated or

acquiesced or waived, the discretion of the Court has to be

exercised in a reasonable manner. When the discretion has

been conferred on the Court, the Court may, in appropriate

case, decline to grant the relief, even if it holds that the WA1645 & 1866/10 69 order was void. The net result is that extraordinary

jurisdiction of the Court may not be exercised in such

circumstances. 95. We are afraid that the first limb of the ratio

cannot be read in isolation; once the whole pronouncement

is taken into account, it goes against the grain of argument

advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant. 96. In State of Orissa v. Prasana Kumar Sahoo ((2007) 15 SCC 129), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held

that even a policy decision taken by the State in exercise of

its jurisdiction under Article 162 of the Constitution of India

would be subservient to the recruitment rules framed by the

State either in terms of a legislative Act or the proviso

appended to Article 309 of the Constitution of India. It is

further observed that a purported policy decision issued by

way of an executive instruction cannot override the statute

or statutory rules far less the constitutional provisions. As

such, what is required to be seen is whether Exts.P11 and WA1645 & 1866/10 70 P14 are in violation of any specific statutory stipulations. 97. State of U.P. v. Desh Raj ((2007) 1 SCC 257)

and Govt. of A.P. v. K. Brahmanandam ((2008) 5 SCC 241) reiterated the judicial dictum enunciated in State of

Karnataka v. Umadevi (3), that an appointment which is

illegal, being in violation of constitutional scheme of equality

as enshrined under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of

Inida, is void ab initio. 98. In Union of India v. Arulmozhi Iniarasu ((2011) 7 SCC 397), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

observed that a writ of mandamus can be issued by the High

Court only when there exists a legal right in the writ

petitioner and corresponding legal obligation on the State.

Only because an illegality has been committed, the same

cannot be directed to be perpetuated. It is trite law that

there cannot be equality in illegality. 99. In P. Bhaskaran v. Addl . Secretary & Ors.

(1987 KLJ 1461), a Full Bench of this Court has examined WA1645 & 1866/10 71 Rule 200 of the Kerala Co-operative Societies Rules. What

actually fell for consideration was the meaning and purport

of the expression "any right or privilege of emoluments". It

was in the context of an employee's right or privilege to

emoluments, which he is entitled to in terms of any contract

or agreement or conditions of service subsisting between

such person and a Co-operative Society. In that backdrop,

the Full Bench has made copious reference to various

statutes, lexicons and standard legal commentaries, such as

Corpus Juris Secundum, Salmond, G. W. Paton, Dias,

Hohfeld. 100. Eventually, their Lordships have held that where

there is a right, there is a duty. Where it is only a privilege,

it is only liberty without any corresponding duty. Privilege

provides an opportunity to choose among alternatives.

Privilege can be the dispensation of a bounty, a conferment

of a personal benefit or advantage, a sanction of immunity

or the grant of an exemption. Privilege is thus essentially WA1645 & 1866/10 72 discretionary. It may or may not be granted. Privilege has

thus no compulsive element and is thus not judicially

enforceable. When there is no duty to enforce a privilege,

there can be sanction for its breach. Privilege cannot be

equated with right and failure to grant a privilege does not

attract any sanction. Privilege is essentially personal while

right is generally universal. Privilege is permissive, right is

prerogative. Right has a larger content. Privilege is in a

narrow compass. But, both right and privilege can be

regulated by the Statute and are subject to constitutional

limitations. 101. In A.K. Janardhanan v. Joint Registrar of Co- operative Societies and Ors. (1990 (1) KLJ 477), the

court, repeating judicial dictum of vintage value, beginning

with Taylor v. Taylor (1876 (1) Ch D 426), having found its

way to Inida in Nazir Ahmad v. King Emperor (AIR 1936

PC 253), emphasised to the effect that it is also well

established that where a power is given to do a certain thing WA1645 & 1866/10 73 in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not

at all. Even if there be no negative words, that shall not be

done in any other way. Other modes of performance are

necessarily forbidden. 102. In Janardhanan v. Joint Registrar (1990 2

KLT 530), the fact of the matter is that permissive sanction

was accorded by the Joint Registrar to amend the bye-laws

of the Respondent-society, enabling it to enhance the

authorised share capital. In that context, a learned single

Judge of this Court has held that where a power or authority

is conferred with a direction that certain regulation

formalities or conditions shall be complied with, it is neither

unjust nor incorrect to extract a rigorous observance of

them as essential to the acquisition of the right or authority

conferred. It is further held that the power or authority

must be exercised according to the mode provided and

contemplated by the statutory provision. WA1645 & 1866/10 74 103. It is well to remember that the very sanction

granted by the Joint Registrar is permissive in nature.

Further, the nature of object sought to be achieved is

legislative in character, for the bye-laws of a society partake

the legislative character. As such, the observations made by

the learned Single Judge in that context cannot be

telescoped into the present factual context. 104. In Ganga Pratap Singh v. Allahabad Bank

Ltd. (AIR 1958 SC 293), the respondent, a scheduled bank,

sued the appellant in the court of the Civil Judge, Sitapore

in Uttar Pradesh, for recovery of money due under an

instrument of mortgage. The appellant, claiming to the

statutory benefit of debt relief, contended that definition of

'debt' offended Article 14 of the Constitution. This defence,

therefore, raised a question as to the validity of a provision

in the Act. So, the appellant made an application to the Civil

Judge, under the proviso to Section 113 of the Code of Civil

Procedure seeking reference for the opinion of the High WA1645 & 1866/10 75 Court of Allahabad on the issue. The unsuccessful appellant

initially approached the High Court of Allahabad and later

the Supreme Court. In that backdrop, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held that appellant's case comes within the

proviso to Section 113 of the Code as also Article 228 of the

Constitution. It can be seen that the question contemplated

by the proviso to Section 113 of the Code is as to the validity

of an Act or of a provision in it, while Article 228 of the

Constitution has, in view, a question as to the interpretation

of the Constitution. Neither of those contingences is

obtained here. 105. In Mamleshwar Prasad v. Kanhaiya Lal (AIR

1975 SC 907), the facts are that through a common

judgment a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court disposed

of four appeals, the points covered by all being admittedly

identical. Though four appeals came to be filed, the

appellants moved the Supreme Court to dispose of one of

the four appeals in the first instance and to apply the same WA1645 & 1866/10 76 judgment to the rest of the appeals. Accordingly, having

heard one appeal, the Supreme Court has decided against

the appellants. At that juncture, one of the appellants in the

three remaining appeals has contended that earlier

adjudication by the Court amounted to a judgment per

incuriam and did not bind him or the Court. He was thus

free to argue on merits. In that context, holding that a prior

decision of the Court on identical facts and law binds the

Court on the same points in a later case, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has observed as follows: 106. In State of Kerala v. Arun George & Ors. (2009 (4) KHC 477)), a Division Bench of this Court has

taken a view that even if Government have granted sanction

to start new courses on condition that they will have no

additional financial commitments, the said condition will be

against the provisions of the University Statutes and the

Direct Payment Agreement and the workload that is

available as per the sanctioned new courses will have to be

reckoned for payment of salary and other benefits. We fail

to see any factual parity or applicability of the ratio to the

present case. 107. In State of W.B. v. Subodh Gopal Bose (AIR

1954 SC 92), a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, by

placing reliance on another Constitution Bench in Charanjit

Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India , has held that the WA1645 & 1866/10 78 American doctrine of police power as a distinct and specific

legislative power is not recognised in our Constitution and it

is, therefore, contrary to the scheme of the Constitution. 108. The learned counsel for the appellant has laid

heavy stress on Bharathidasan University v. All-India

Council for Technical Education ((2001) 8 SCC 676). The

important question of law that has arisen for consideration in that case is whether the University created under the Bharathidasan University Act, 1981 should seek prior

approval of AICTE to start a department for imparting a

course or programme in technical education or a technical

institution as an adjunct to the University itself to conduct

technical courses of its choice and selection. 109. The contention of the University in that case is

that it is not a 'technical institution' in terms of Section 2(h) of the AICTE Act and therefore, it stood outside the purview

of Section 10(1)(k) of the said Act. Consequently, it is not

obliged to seek and obtain prior approval of the AICTE for WA1645 & 1866/10 79 starting a department or introducing new courses or

programmes. 110. In response thereto, the Supreme Court has

held that a careful scanning through all the provisions of the AICTE Act and the provisions of the UGC Act in

juxtaposition, will show that the role of AICTE, vis-a-vis, the

Universities are only advisory, recommendatory and a

guiding factor for the purpose of maintaining appropriate

standards. It is held that the Regulations insofar as they

compel the Universities to seek and obtain prior approval to

start any new course are directly opposed to and

inconsistent with the provisions of Section 10(1)(k) of the

Act and consequently void and unenforceable. 111. In that context, their Lordships held that the

Regulations may have the force and the law does not confer

any more sanctity or immunity as though they are statutory

provisions themselves. Consequently, when the power to

make Regulations are confined to certain limits, those are WA1645 & 1866/10 80 actually made to show and found to be not made within

those confines, but outside them, the Courts are bound to

ignore them when the question of their enforcement arises.

The mere fact that there was no specific relief sought to

strike down or declare them as ultra vires, particularly

when the party in sufferance is a respondent to the lis or

proceedings, it cannot confer any further sanctity or

authority and validity which it is shown and found to

obviously and patently lack. 112. In Usman v. State of Kerala (2003 (1) KLT 2),

a single Judge of this Court has held that even the validity of

an Act or Rule or Statutory Order can be raised by way of

defence in a criminal trial. The accused need not move any

separate application for judicial review. In that context, this

Court quoted the learned Author H.W.R. Wade, who, in his

Administrative Law, 8th Edition, dealt with this aspect in

the following manner: WA1645 & 1866/10 81 113. As could be seen from the above extract, Lord

Fraser did acknowledge the dichotomy of the issue;

protecting the public authorities against unmeritorious or

dilatory challenges to their decisions on one hand; and

preserving the ordinary rights of private citizens to defend

themselves against the unfounded claims of the authorities.

In this case, can we say that the appellant, an institution,

though suing in the name of its manager, is facing the

official oppression as an ordinary citizen? For all practical

purposes, it is an instrumentality, discharging public

function, getting funded by the State and being under the

all pervasive control of the Government. Government and

the appellant are not the rivals in arms, but two agencies

requiring administrative co-ordination between themselves. 114. In this context, it is appropriate to quote Justice

William O. Douglas, who said: "The Constitution is not

neutral. It was designed to take the government off the

backs of the people." (The Court Years 1939-1975: The WA1645 & 1866/10 83 Autobiography of William O. Douglas, (New York: Random

House, 1980), p. 8) 115. Thus, while applying the legal principles settle

though they are, it is essential to see who seeks the benefit

of those principles. A legal principle is not inert in its effect

so that it can be applied across the board, unmindful of the

fact that who the beneficiary is. A common man can claim

the benefit of prescriptive rights, say perfection of title by

adverse possession; but, can we say that a Government, too,

a juristic person though, can claim the same right? In fact,

the Supreme Court in State of Haryana v. Mukesh

Kumar ((2011) 4 SCC 404), deprecated such an attempt by

the Government. 116. It is further pertinent to observe that such

course has been limited, as held in R (W) v. Director of

Public Prosecutions (2005 EWCA Civ 1333), to cases

where the defence is raised against a criminal charge. WA1645 & 1866/10 84 117. In Usman it has been observed in paragraph 9

of the judgment that invalidity of a legislation can be set up

as a defence in civil proceedings. It has further observed,

placing reliance on Bharathidasan that, in writ proceedings,

if a subordinate legislation is sought to be enforced, the

respondents can resist the same pleading that said

Regulation is invalid. He need not seek separate and

independent prerogative remedy to challenge the same. 118. It may be appreciated that, all through, the

challenge is with regard to subordinate legislation, but not

an administrative order. In any event, we have already

discussed the impact of Bharathidasan on the present issue

at length. Further, State of Kerala v. Arun George (2009

(4) KLT 972) and U.Sharafali, Deputy Commandant v.

State Of Kerala an unreported judgment rendered on

17.06.2010 by one of us (Antony Dominic, J), are two other

judgments which are based on the findings on the ratio laid

down in Bharathidasan. It is pertinent to state that in WA1645 & 1866/10 85 U.Sharafali, the issue has already attained finality, having

been dealt with in another writ petition, to which

Government is a party. As such, it is held that even in the

absence of a formal challenge against the validity of the

order, the court can justifiably ignore the order, particularly

when the party in sufferance is the respondent to the

proceedings. Collateral Challenge & Rule of Law: Ipso facto, he cannot be allowed to ignore even void orders,

without laying a proper challenge against them and justify

his inaction and disobedience to binding administrative

directives in the name of collateral challenge, by pre-

judging the purative voidness of the directive.

Void Orders - Degrees of Voidness: Black's Law Dictionary (9th Edn.) defines the term 'void' as

(1) of no legal effect; null. It further states that the

distinction between void and voidable is often of great

practical importance. Whenever technical accuracy is WA1645 & 1866/10 88 required, void can be properly applied only to those

provisions that are of no effect whatsoever - those that an

absolute nullity. 123. Most of the English case law on the concept of

'void', including Ridge v. Baldwin (1964 AC 40), concern

themselves with the denial of fair hearing or the negation of

principles of natural justice. In this case, we are concerned

with orders of the Government on the principle that they are

ultra vires of the powers of the authorities. Thus, it is

voidness borne out of being ulta vires. Criticising

Durayappah v. Fernando ((1967) 2 AC 337), the learned

Author, Wades, says that although action which is ultra

vires is properly described as void or a nullity, this voidness

necessarily depends upon the right remedy being sought

successfully by the right person. Citing an example, the

learned author says that if a person is dismissed without

being heard, his dismissal may be held as void if he

challenges it. But, if he has not challenged it, other people WA1645 & 1866/10 89 have to accept it also, for, as against 3rd parties, whose

rights are not infringed, a void act may well be valid, if they

have no legal title to challenge it. In that context, he

concludes thus: 124. Echoing the same view, another learned author,

de Smith, comments thus: 125. Eventually, the learned author opines that what

is null and void for one purpose may be valid for another,

and voidness itself is a relative concept. WA1645 & 1866/10 90 126. It is pertinent to observe that in F. Hoffman-La

Roche & Co. A.G. v. Secretary of State for Trade and

Industry ((1975) AC 295), the House of Lords, per Lord

Diplock, observes that orders would be presumed to be valid

unless the presumption is reported in competent legal

proceedings by a party and take pursue. 127. In State of Kerala v. M.K. Kunhikannan

Nambiar Manjeri Manikoth (AIR 1996 SC 906), the

Supreme Court has held as follows: Void Orders v. Collateral Challenge: Judicial Perspective: 128. In State of Punjab v. Gurdev Singh ((1991) 4

SCC 1), the issue is one concerning limitation governing the

suit for declaration by a dismissed employee that he

continues to be in service since his dismissal was void and WA1645 & 1866/10 91 inoperative. The High Court has observed that if the

dismissal of the employee is illegal, void or inoperative

being in contravention of the mandatory provisions of any

rules or conditions of service, there is no limitation to bring

a suit for declaration that the employee continues to be in

service. Reversing the above findings, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held that the impugned dismissal order has at

least be a de facto operation unless and until it is declared

to be void and null by a competent body or court. In this

regard, the Supreme Court has relied on the oft-quoted

remark of the House of Lords in Smith v. East Elloe Rural

District Council, wherein Lord Radcliffe observed: (All ER

p. 871)

 "An order, even if not made in good faith, is
 still an act capable of legal consequences. It
 bears no brand of invalidity on its forehead.
 Unless the necessary proceedings are taken
 at law to establish the cause of invalidity and
 to get it quashed or otherwise upset, it will
 remain as effective for its ostensible purpose
 as the most impeccable of orders." WA1645 & 1866/10 92 129. Further, the Supreme Court also quotes with

approval the observations of Prof. Wade: (emphasis added) 130. Following Gurdev Singh, a Division Bench of this

Court in Gopalakrishnan Nair v. State of Kerala (ILR

1992 (2) 739), has held that unless a Court of law either set

aside or declares an administrative instruction, direction or

order as invalid and inoperative, it will be presumed to be

valid and operative. WA1645 & 1866/10 93 131. In Pune Municipal Corpn. v. State of

Maharashtra ((2007) 5 SCC 211), the Supreme Court has

observed that no order can be ignored altogether unless a

finding is recorded that it was illegal, void or not in

consonance with law. Krishnadevi Malchand Kamathia

v. Bombay Environmental Action Group ((2011) 3 SCC 363), and M. Meenakshi and Ors. v. Metadin Agarwal (dead) by L.Rs. and Ors. ((2006) 7 SCC 470), affirm the

same view. 132. In MCD v. Qimat Rai Gupta ((2007) 7 SCC 309), it is observed that there exists a presumption that the

official act is presumed to have been done in regular course

of business. There also exists a presumption that a statutory

functionary would act honestly and bona fidely. 133. In Pavithran v. State of Kerala (2009 (4) KLT

20 (F.B)), a Full Bench of this Court has held that whenever

an adverse order is passed against a person, unless the

same is challenged before the appropriate forum, within the WA1645 & 1866/10 94 prescribed time limit, the said order will become final and

the person, affected by it, will also be bound by it. It is a

well settled principle in Administrative Law that, there are

no void orders in absolute sense, in administrative matters.

There are only voidable orders. Unless a person aggrieved

takes recourse to the proper remedy at the appropriate

time, even an illegal order will be treated as valid and

binding. 134. In Jose. T.A. & Company v. State of Kerala

(ILR 2009 (3) 62), one of us (Antony Dominic, J), sitting

single, has dealt with the issue of the nature of orders which

are supposed to be void and the remedial measures to be

taken in that regard. After comprehensively surveying the

precedential precincts in that regard, it is held that an

irregular or illegal order can be avoided only if it is set aside

in appropriate proceedings before a competent forum. WA1645 & 1866/10 95 WA No.1645 of 2000: 135. While allowing the O.P., the learned Single

Judge has directed the respondents therein to reckon the

interregnum period from the date of the first respondent's

termination from the University till the date of the his re-

appointment in the college for the purpose of seniority and

pay fixation, etc., but without pay and allowances for the

said period. Contending that denial of pay and allowance,

after the learned Single Judge holding that the action of the

respondent college is illegal, is totally unsustainable. In

support of his submissions, the learned counsel has relied

on the following decisions: Commissioner, Karnataka

Housing Board v. C. Muddaiah ((2007) 7 SCC 689),

State of U.P. v. Dayanand Chakrawarty ((2013) 7 SCC 595) and Shiv Nandan Mahto v. State of Bihar ((2013)

11 SCC 626). Despite the unquestionable efficacy of the WA1645 & 1866/10 96 judicial dicta of the above judgments of the Apex Court, the

issue is whether the ratio laid down therein applies to the

present factual situation. 136. In this case, it is the Government, which is the

paymaster. All along it has been directing the management

to re-employ the 1st respondent, but it is the appellant

management that has proved recalcitrant. Under these

circumstances, directing payment of back wages puts an

unjustifiable burden on the Government, which has never

been at fault. It cannot be made to pay for the mistakes of

the appellant college. The fact further remains that the 1st

respondent attained the age of superannuation and deemed

to have been retired from service in April, 2014. 137. Under these peculiar circumstances, in our

considered view, it subserves the interest of justice if a

direction is given to the Government to pay the accumulated

back wages to the 1st respondent from the date of the

judgment in OP., i.e., from 18.05.2010, when his entitlement WA1645 & 1866/10 97 got the judicial imprimatur till the date of his deemed

retirement on attaining the age of superannuation, i.e.,

April, 2014. 138. As a matter of restitution, Government is at

liberty to recover the said amount of back wages being paid

to the 1st respondent from the appellant either by way of

direct recovery, by taking recourse to the recovery

mechanism such as Revenue Recovery Act or to exercise the

power of set off from and out of the funds to be disbursed to

the appellant college. In the result, W.A.No.1645/2010 is dismissed. W.A.

No.1866/2010 is allowed to the extent indicated above. No

costs. Sd/- Antony Dominic, Judge

 Sd/- Dama Seshadri Naidu, Judge

tkv