One 97 Communications (OCL), the parent company of Paytm, has received a show cause notice from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) regarding alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) violations.

The specific violations include section 6(3)(a) and (b) of the FEMA Act, 1999 prohibiting the “transfer or issue of foreign security by a person resident in India” and the “transfer or issue of any security by a person resident outside India” respectively.

In an exchange filing with the BSE, Paytm discloses that the notice concerns two acquired subsidiaries of One 97 Communications- Little Internet Private Limited (LIPL) and Nearbuy India Private Limited (NIPL), and specific investment transactions in the companies. These transactions amount to Rs 611 crore, with Rs 245 crore for OCL, Rs 344 crore for LIPL, and Rs 20 crore for NIPL between 2015 and 2019. Additionally, the regulatory filing notes that some allegations pertain to investment transactions made before the subsidiaries were acquired.

Paytm acquired hyperlocal deals marketplaces Little and Nearbuy in 2017 with plans to merge them into one brand. Through this deal, the company aimed to strengthen its online-to-offline (O2O) presence in India and tap into the brands’ 40,000 merchants across categories like food, beauty, and travel. Founded in 2011, LIPL was one of Paytm’s investee companies. Nearbuy, co-founded by Ankur Warikoo , was initially named SoSasta before being rebranded as Groupon India, eventually returning to the Nearbuy brand name.

Paytm stated that it is evaluating legal options while assuring that the notice does not impact its services to customers and merchants. Further, the exchange filing stipulated that since the ED hasn’t specified any demand or penalty yet, there are no financial implications for the company.

This notice comes weeks after OCL’s investment and wealth management subsidiary Paytm Money settled a case with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) by paying Rs 45.5 lakh. The market regulator investigated alleged lapses by the company in adhering to SEBI’s technology infrastructure and risk management norms. Further, in March 2024, the Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND) imposed a Rs 5.49 crore penalty on the now defunct Paytm Payments Bank for infringing upon the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. This followed a 2022 Reserve Bank of India (RBI)-imposed ban on the Payments Bank, prohibiting it from onboarding new customers, among other compliance measures.

Besides Paytm, the ED has also initiated actions against multiple startups including:

Also Read:

Note: The headline was edited at 4:12 PM on March 3rd to fix a typo error .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event