Kavin Bharti Mittal announced the end of the Hike app after the Indian government banned online real-money games. “Our US business, launched just nine months ago, is off to a strong start. But after the India ban, scaling globally would require a full recap, a reset that is not the best use of capital or time,” read the LinkedIn post.

This announcement from Hike comes after a series of real-money gaming (RMG) applications decided to either shut down their operations or pivot to other businesses. Several RMG companies bore the brunt of the central government’s recently enacted Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025 .

The India-born Hike Messenger, once a strong competitor to WhatsApp, had ended its instant messaging services in 2021 after giving in to competition from giants like Facebook Messenger (owned by Meta) and other popular messaging apps like Telegram. Announcing the end of its messaging vertical, Mittal had said , “India won’t have its own messenger.” Later that year, the company pivoted to online games, experimenting with Web 3.0 gaming experiences through Rush Gaming Service, which is no longer operational after the ban.

Despite the potential to raise capital, Mittal questioned the worthiness of pursuing the business. “Is this a climb worth pivoting for? For the first time in 13 years, my answer is no,” he said.

He also said that “real-money gaming” was never the destination. However, starting the business in India had made them stuck with India, especially with the “regulatory headwinds.” Extending the uncertainty of regulations, he said that “crypto regulation is still developing globally, and we don’t want to repeat India, where we hoped for clarity that never came.”

He was referring to Hike’s “nation-type gaming model” in Web 3.0. “Risk is fine; uncertainty is not,” he said while emphasising the lack of regulatory clarity.

In his LinkedIn blog post, he claimed that Hike Messenger had 40 million monthly active users and was the “35th most loved consumer brand in India at its peak.” He also said their gaming vertical, Rush, scaled to 10 million users and $500 million in gross revenue. Mittal cautioned others to be careful with winner-take-all markets and suggested not building products for the constraints of the present day.

Kavin Bharti Mittal launched the Hike Messenger on December 11, 2012, and subsequently introduced it in other Indian regional languages as well. By 2016, the messaging platform had reached 100 million users . The company claimed that 95% of its users at the time were from India. It also offered news-aggregating services in its messaging app as part of its language-localisation efforts.

Hike Messenger entered the gaming industry as early as 2015 by integrating Hoppr and Tiny Mogul Games into its application. In the same year, it also introduced Hike Direct , which allowed users to chat and share files without the internet through a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, similar to mesh networks that are popularly used in protests and demonstrations to bypass internet shutdowns imposed by governments. Recently, Jack Dorsey (Twitter’s, now X, ex-CEO) built a similar chatting app called BitChat , a decentralised P2P messaging platform.

In 2016, it also had a stint as a ride-sharing service with a feature called Car Match that allowed users to connect, chat, and share rides with others. In the same year, the messaging company also introduced internet-based video calls .

Two years later, the company launched Hike Total , an operating system for entry-level phones that offered features like Hike Wallet, news, horoscopes, and rail information. Hike Wallet referred to the service it launched in 2017 in collaboration with Airtel Payments Bank.

The next year, it laid off 20–25% of its workforce after the acquisitions of hardware-tech company Creo and social networking platform InstaLively.

However, in 2021, Mittal’s Hike ventured into online games with the Rush Gaming Universe, an online gaming platform based on cryptocurrency, whose shutdown now marks the end of all of Hike’s operations.

Hike is not the first company to shut its operations because of the central government’s ban on real-money games. After the ban, several companies announced that they were either pivoting to other businesses or shutting down their real-money gaming-related operations.

For example, online gaming platform WinZO announced plans to expand to the United States and launch a short-video section in its app featuring South Korean and Chinese drama content. Dream11 , one of the country’s largest fantasy sports platforms, said it would shut down its real-money games. Some platforms allowed existing users to withdraw their money. Games24x7, which runs RummyCircle and My11Circle, stopped accepting deposits and expressed plans to move out of the real-money gaming sector.

Reportedly, the Gurugram-based opinion trading app Probo also shut down its operations in India. Unlike RMG, opinion trading, or prediction markets, lets players bet on the outcomes of future events.

Speaking about the Act, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Minister for Railways, Information and Broadcasting, and Electronics and Information Technology, said in Parliament that several issues, such as youth and child addiction, increased fraud, credit card debt and suicides, risks of money laundering and terror financing, and celebrity ads that mislead users and give false legitimacy, were the reasons for introducing the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025 to penalise online real-money gaming companies.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event