Recently, the Telangana (TG) Cyber Security Bureau issued a tender inviting bids for four Cyber Crime Investigation Tools aimed at monitoring online content and extracting data from devices after breaking into them.

On the surface, these tools may appear to be the Telangana state police’s efforts to strengthen their existing cyber-powers. However, the tender copy reveals the extent to which the Telangana government plans to deploy these tools, raising significant concerns about potential privacy violations of individuals and the risk of online mass surveillance, not just of content, but also private messages on social media.

The tender lists the following tools:

The Telangana police’s tender for software development presents numerous problematic aspects. Below is a short list summarizing the most concerning issues, followed by a detailed breakdown of the police’s requirements for each tool:

Provisions and powers like these can have detrimental effects on individuals if the law is not followed and respected. For instance, in January 2024, MediaNama reported how Bengaluru police searched the smartphones of individuals for evidence of marijuana use without any warrant. Such unwarranted searches of digital devices are even more common with Hyderabad police, especially the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) EAGLE team. Additionally, politically motivated arrests and seizures could easily be misused if such exploitative systems are in place and the law is not respected.

These are only a few among many issues in the Telangana government’s tender copy. A breakdown of key requirements from each tool follows:

According to the Technical Specifications Compliance Statement in the tender copy, Talkwalker is a “consumer intelligence and social listening platform” that helps businesses monitor and analyse online conversations across “social media, news, blogs, forums, and other digital sources.”

The expected functionalities of Talk Walker are:

Cellebrite is a digital investigative company that works with both public and private organisations on data collection, review, analysis, and management in investigations. TG police want a Cellebrite Inseyets Tool for extracting data from smartphones and cloud-based platforms.

Some key requirements:

This tool is intended for comprehensive forensic investigations.

This tool is designed for open-source intelligence gathering and behavioural profiling.

Specifications include:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event