1. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and learned

 A.P.P. for the State. 2. The petitioner apprehends his arrest in connection

 with Cyber P.S. Case No. 40 of 2024 registered for the offences

 punishable under Section 354(D) of the Indian Penal Code read

 with Section 67 of the I.T. Act. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner is a person with clean antecedent and the informant

 alleges that her sister had come to her house where petitioner also

 used to visit and the petitioner clandestinely clicked a photograph

 of her sister and later started exploiting her sister and even

 molested her, further the petitioner also posted the inappropriate

 picture of her sister on Facebook, further the petitioner even

 stalked her sister after she got married. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner has been falsely implicated in the instant case by the

 informant. It is further submitted that the victim has not instituted
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.88149 of 2024(2) dt.08-01-2025 2/2 the instant FIR. It is also submitted that no doubt the inappropriate

 picture of the victim was posted on Facebook, but then it was not

 from the ID of the petitioner. 5. Learned A.P.P. for the State opposes the prayer for

 anticipatory bail of the petitioner and submits that from perusal of

 the allegation as alleged in the FIR, it appears that petitioner and

 the victim were known to each other and the victim allowed the

 petitioner to click her, but then petitioner after clicking the

 photograph of the victim started behaving inappropriately and

 even posted the picture on Facebook through a fake ID. It is

 further submitted that investigation in the case is in its nascent

 stages, as such, if privilege of anticipatory bail is granted to the

 petitioner, the petitioner may abscond, 6. Considering the submissions made by the learned

 APP for the State, the Court is not inclined to extend the privilege

 of anticipatory bail to the petitioner. 7. Accordingly, the instant anticipatory bail

 application is rejected. (Satyavrat Verma, J)
Rishabh/-