(Judgment made by the Hon'ble Mr Justice D.Bharatha Chakravarthy)

 A. The Writ Appeal : The third respondent commenced construction of Phase - I in the year 2009

 consisting of seven towers simultaneously and the individual flats were

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 4/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 handed over to the buyer from the year 2012 onwards. The clubhouse for

 Phase - I was completed and was made operational in the year 2014. 2.1. The third respondent, thereafter, commenced construction of

 Phase - II in the year 2014. It originally consisted of seven towers namely,

 Bayview, Edina, Sinovia, Tiana, Amalfi, Anchorage and Seagull. Unlike

 Phase - I, the construction of all towers was not taken up simultaneously and

 the towers namely Edina and Sinovia were completed in the year 2014.

 Bayview was completed in the year 2016. Tiana and Amalfi were completed

 in the year 2019. The construction of Seagull has not yet been done.

 Though Phase - II is almost complete, steps were not taken for the

 construction of clubhouse in the Phase - II. While so, the third respondent

 started building two new towers namely, Octavius and Verona in the exact

 location in which the clubhouse for Phase - II is shown as per the approved

 plan vide Na.Ka.No.9787/2012, dated 15.06.2012 and the building permit

 No. Mu.U.Ka.No.59, dated 15.10.2012 issued by the Muttukkadu Gram

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 5/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 Panchayat and revised and renewed by Mamallapuram Local Planning

 Authority on 28.01.2016. A change of use or such conversion is

 impermissible. Such change in the planning approval can be effected only

 after all the co-owners provide a No Objection Certificate. No such No

 Objection Certificate has been provided by the members of the appellant

 Association. This apart, the common facility which was promised cannot be

 withdrawn or altered after the completion of the sales of the apartments. 2.2. The availability of two clubhouses was expressly promised during

 the launching and marketing of the flats. All the brochures and marketing

 material, furnished to the buyers of the flats in all the 13 towers approved in

 the year 2016, clearly show the clubhouse as an amenity. The appellant

 Association, on enquiry, came to know that the third respondent had

 obtained a revised plan from the DTCP on 19.11.2020 for the construction of

 twin towers namely, Octavius and Verona. A statutory obligation is cast

 upon the third respondent to hand over all the common areas to the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 6/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 association of allottees under the provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation

 and Development) Act, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as ' RERA Act '). The

 new plan is sanctioned by the authorities in violation of Section 14(2)(ii) of

 the RERA Act. The homeowners are severely affected because the third

 respondent did not adhere to the promises made concerning the amenities.

 Only based on the original plan that they will have the common area, space,

 number of towers etc., the decision has been made by the homeowners to

 buy the houses at the price offered by the third respondent and after selling

 the flats, unilaterally, alteration of plan, abandoning the clubhouse for Phase - II and putting up of two new residential towers to be sold to prospective

 purchasers, completely violates rights of the homeowners of the appellant

 Association and hence the Writ Petition. C. The case of the respondents : 3. The Writ Petition was resisted by the respondents. On behalf of the

 second respondent, the Assistant Director, District Office of Town and

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 7/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 Country Planning, Chengalpattu filed a counter-affidavit. In the counter-

 affidavit, the earlier plan approvals and building permission granted by the

 authorities in the years 2012 and 2016 are admitted. It is stated that the third

 respondent applied for revision and additions to planning permission

 No.38/2012 on 05.06.2020. Among the other things, they deleted the

 clubhouse Block No.36 (2 Basement + Ground Floor + 4 Floors of total

 building area 10413.50 Sq.Meters). In the same location, the residential

 Block No.50 (2 Basement + Stilt + 18 Floors) and Block No. 51(2 Basement

 + Stilt + 18 floors) are added. The third respondent also revised the space

 and Block No.37 which originally consisted of 3 Basement + Ground Floor

 of a building area of 923.53 Sq.meters into Ground Floor + First Floor

 building area of 1687.47 Sq.meters as sports hall and clubhouse block. The

 same was duly examined and technical clearance No.176/2020 was issued

 by the Director of Town and Country Planning vide his proceedings, dated

 21.08.2020. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 8/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 3.1. The clearance was given with special conditions. Under

 condition Sl. No.12, Government Pleader opinion is to be obtained for sold-

 out flat UDS details. Accordingly, a legal opinion was obtained on

 07.11.2020 which opined that the third respondent still owns the balance

 extent of 90.88 acres and is the General Power of Attorney of another 7.58

 acres of land which gives it a right to apply for revised sanction of planning

 permission for additions, deletions and revisions of the earlier approved

 plan. Accordingly, the second respondent issued planning permission

 No.17/2020, dated 19.11.2020. A specific condition was also imposed in the

 planning approval that the promoter can advertise, market, book, sell, or

 offer for sale or invite persons to purchase in any manner any plot, apartment

 or building only after registering the Real Estate project with the Real Estate

 Regulatory Authority. 3.2. It is further submitted by the second respondent that as per Rule

 11 of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019,

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 9/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 there are limitations for the permission granted. Permission granted by the

 competent authority shall not mean responsibility or clearance of the aspects

 of (a) title or ownership of the site or building; (b) easement rights; (c)

 structural reports, structural drawings and structural aspects; (d)

 workmanship, soundness of structure and materials used; (e) quality of

 building services and amenities in the construction of building; (f) other

 requirements or licenses or clearances required for the site or premises or

 activity under various other laws. Therefore, it is the case of the second

 respondent that it only took into account the title and availability of the land

 and the floor space index and whether or not the existing residents are

 entitled to the amenity of the building and whether any other requirement is

 required is not its lookout as per Rule 11(e) and (f) of the said Rules. 3.3. The third respondent filed an affidavit. In paragraph No.9 of the

 affidavit, the earlier planning approvals, dated 15.06.2012, 15.10.2012 and

 28.01.2016 are all admitted. It is the case of the third respondent that they

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 10/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 completed the buildings of Phase - I comprising six towers in the name and

 style of Seawood, Pinewood, Brentwood, Greenwood, Birchwood and

 Bridgewood. The third respondent has completed part of Phase - II of the

 township which comprised seven towers in the name and style of Oceanic,

 Edina, Bayview, Sinovia, Tiana, Amalfi and Anchorage. The third

 respondent is in the process of developing Octavius, Verona, Bayheaven in

 Phase - I. Based on the sanctioned plans, the officials of the third

 respondent made relevant marketing material namely, the brochures to

 market the said township to prospective customers. The said market

 brochures provide information concerning the various aspects of the said

 township. It gave the master plan with the relevant floor plans for each of

 the towers for the relevant phase of the said township. The master plan and

 floor plan given in the said marketing brochure earmarked a clubhouse - I

 and a clubhouse and sports hall - II. 3.4. Only per the said marketing material, apartments in the township

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 11/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 are offered for sale and the third respondent executed and registered the

 necessary documents namely, the agreement for sale,

 construction/development agreements and deed of sale of undivided share of

 lands with various allottees. All the agreements and deeds are uniform and

 pari materia except to the extent of their dwelling unit and other relevant

 particulars. Clause - 10.3 of the construction agreement recorded that each

 of these allottees gives their specific consent and empowers the third

 respondent to file necessary renewal/revision application with the

 appropriate authority and to comply with any statutory requirement for such

 deemed consent given by the allottees of the said township which includes

 the members of the appellant Association. The said consent enables the third

 respondent to make necessary modifications/changes in the sanctioned plans

 as deemed necessary for the benefit of the said township. The allottees have

 acquiesced to the terms and conditions recorded in the construction

 agreement and cannot seek to retract from the same under any

 circumstances. Even though the RERA Act and TNRERA Rules have come

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 12/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 into force, such contractual terms are recognised as consent under Section 14 of the RERA Act. Explanation to Rule 4 of the TNRERA Rules saves the

 contractual terms. 3.5. While things stood thus, the third respondent applied for further

 revision of the sanctioned plan in the year 2020. Considering the market

 conditions and demands, the third respondent chose to develop a few villas

 in the said township due to an increase in demand for such property. That

 resulted in the reduction of the density of the residents in the said township.

 Resultantly, 119.57 acres of plot area became available for development.

 Therefore, the third respondent, in its commercial wisdom, applied to the

 second respondent and other relevant authorities for revision of plan

 approval and the impugned plan approval was granted for the development

 of the said towers namely, Octavius and Verona. 3.6. Even as per the impugned plan approval, the third respondent

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 13/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 only sought to move the amenity namely, the clubhouse, behind the said

 towers, Octavius and Verona. Thus, the clubhouse is as per the directions

 given in the revised sanction plan. This is, by no stretch of imagination, a

 withdrawal of common facility by the third respondent. 3.7. Thus, the third respondent does not have to procure a separate No

 Objection Certificate/consent from each of the allottees including the

 appellant for the revision. The township is an ongoing project. The third

 respondent had acted in consonance with Explanation - II of Rule 4 and Section 14 of the RERA Act. The appellant has only 239 residents as part of

 its association, whereas, the township has more than 2000 occupants and

 therefore, lacks the requisite majority to present the Writ Petition. The

 appellant Association is well aware that the clubhouse is presently used by

 all of its members without any complaints. The third respondent has also

 procured the relevant RERA registrations for the towers Octavius and Verona

 separately on 20.12.2021. As per the same, the construction of 107 dwelling

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 14/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 units in the Octavius Tower and 178 dwelling units in Verona Tower have

 been in progress for the past two years and midway through the

 development, the Writ Petition was filed. The appellant Association also

 filed a rejoinder to the counter-affidavit. D. Findings of the learned Single Judge: 4. The learned Single Judge, thereafter, considered the case of the

 parties and by the order under appeal, dated 04.07.2023, found that a

 separate right is available under the RERA Act for omission or deletion of

 facility or amenity, as promised. The aggrieved purchaser or flat owner can

 move the Special Court under the RERA Act , but, if any illegality is alleged

 to have been committed by the authorities in granting approval, modification

 or revision, such action of the planning authorities can be challenged only by

 a Writ Petition as the official respondents who approved the impugned plan

 are not amenable to the jurisdiction of the RERA Court and consequently,

 held that the Writ Petition as maintainable under Article 226 of the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 15/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 Constitution of India. 4.1. The learned Single Judge, thereafter, considered Section 14 of the

 RERA Act and Explanation - II of the TNRERA Rules and found that the

 consent, as contemplated under Section 14 of the RERA Act, has to be a

 specific consent which is to be obtained upon a full disclosure by the

 developer of the entire project including construction timeline, nature, units

 to be constructed, amenities to be provided, etc., with supporting documents

 which will enable the purchaser to take a specific decision at the time of

 buying the unit. The learned Single Judge found that the approval for the

 original plan was granted even before the coming into force and

 commencement of the RERA Act and therefore, Explanation - II to Rule 4 of

 the TNRERA Rules apply to the facts of this case and therefore, the subject

 matter plan is exempted from getting the consent as contemplated under Section 14 of the RERA Act. As per Section 14 of the RERA Act, there has to

 be a specific consent and however, such consent was exempted for

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 16/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 categories that fall under Explanation - II to Rule 4 of the RERA Rules. 4.2. Further, the learned Single Judge found that a reading of recital 'L'

 and Clause - 10.3 of the construction agreement, the allottees have also

 specifically consented and empowered the third respondent to file necessary

 renewal/revision application and therefore the third respondent did not have

 to procure any fresh consent of two-third of the allottees to act on the revised

 plan. The authorities have duly taken into account the limitations of

 permission as contained in Rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Combined

 Development and Building Rules, 2019 and the project is taken up in a

 phased manner and the third respondent is only sought to move the amenity

 to the new location as proposed in the revised plan. Thus, after proper

 scrutiny of the documents and requirements, the impugned plan has been

 granted. 4.3. Further, the learned Single Judge found that the space, in which

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 17/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 the clubhouse is originally scheduled to be put up, is not covered in the sale

 deeds issued to the members of the appellant Association. But, it is shown

 only as an amenity. No other person owns undivided share in respect of the

 site, on which, the new clubhouse is to be located. Therefore, the learned

 Single Judge found no merits in the twin contentions raised in the Writ

 Petition namely, the requirements of a consent under Section 14 of the

 RERA Act or that they were deprived of the usage of the clubhouse. 4.4. Regarding the contention that there is a violation of the Tamil

 Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 2022 , the learned Single Judge found that

 the project is an ongoing project and the property, which the appellant has

 purchased, falls under Phase - II and not under Phase - III. If any right in the

 amenities or its use is violated, the same can be taken up in the RERA Court

 and not in the present Writ Petition. Even in the communication produced

 before the Writ Court, the appellant Association and the third respondent

 were predominantly asking for a waiver of non-active membership charges

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 18/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 and they wanted a free membership. The learned Single Judge found that

 there were two sets of the original plan and revised plan, which were

 produced by the learned Advocate General before the Writ Court and as per

 the planning permission issued in the year 2012, the Block No.21 - Ground

 Floor, 25A - Ground Floor, 35, 36 46 are clubhouses and Block Nos.37 and

 40 is sports hall are amenities to the purchasers. After the revised plan,

 except for Block No.36 which is revised as residential Block Nos.50 and 51,

 Block No.37 is used as a sports hall and clubhouse while it was earlier sports

 hall alone. The appellant suppressed a material fact and obtained interim

 orders. Therefore, the learned Single Judge quantified costs at the rate of

 Rs.500/- per individual member in all totalling to Rs.1,19,500/-. For the

 above findings, the learned Single Judge dismissed the Writ Petition with the

 costs as aforementioned. Aggrieved by which, the appellant Association has

 filed the present appeal. E. The Submissions : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 20/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 5.2. The second respondent is duty bound to consider the provisions of

 the RERA Act more specifically Section 14 which mandates that the

 developer shall not alter the original sanctioned plan without the prior

 written consent of two-thirds of allottees in the project and if the project is

 intended to be developed in phases, then, without the prior written consent

 of two-third of allottees in the phase concerned. The impugned order did not

 consider any consent at all. The impugned order is violative of Section 14 of

 the RERA Act. The term 'common areas' in Section 14(2) of the RERA Act

 has been defined to include the entire area of the project or the phase as the

 case may be and also community and commercial facilities. The clubhouse

 is a community facility as per recital 'K' and Annexure - IV of the

 construction agreement. In view of the same, as per the definition in Section

 2(n)(i) and (vii) of the RERA Act , the consent is mandatory. 5.3. The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant would further

 submit that it is not the case of the respondents that the impugned order is

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 21/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 passed in terms of Section 54(1) of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country

 Planning Act, 1971. Therefore, the second respondent does not have any

 power or jurisdiction to modify a sanctioned plan. In support of his

 submissions, the learned Senior Counsel also relied upon the judgment of a

 Co-ordinate Bench of this Court, dated 20.01.2023 in Abbotsbury Owners'

 Association Vs. The Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan

 Development Authority and Ors. (W.P.No.5765 of 2020), wherein, it has

 been held that by the clever drafting of the agreement, the rights of the

 purchasers of flats and their rightful UDS in the total land cannot be defeated

 and the developer cannot cull out any land from it and retain it for

 themselves. 5.4. Mr A.Edwin Prabakar, learned State Government Pleader for the

 respondent Nos.1 and 2 would restate the stand of the second respondent as

 contained in the counter-affidavit and submit that because of Rule 11 of the

 Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, approval is

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 22/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 not an indication that all the licenses etc., are obtained by the developer nor

 it is a guarantee for all amenities which are promised to the buyers. 5.5. Mr.Srinath Sridevan, learned Senior Counsel for the third

 respondent would submit that the order under challenge is the order of the

 planning authority and the appellant Association claims that they cannot

 approve a plan modification and they are barred from doing so by Section 14 of the RERA Act. The modification does not concern any of the lands over

 which the members of the Appellant Association had any undivided interest.

 The lands on which the planning is modified are the lands exclusively

 belonging to the third respondent. The term 'phase' is not defined under the RERA Act . It would mean a phase of development. The third respondent is

 developing each tower along with appurtenant land as an independent phase.

 Each phase has an independent RERA registration. The members of the

 appellant Association never had nor have an undivided interest in the land on

 which the erstwhile Building No.37 (called as "clubhouse") was located. It

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 23/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 is also not a part of their respective RERA registration. 5.6. The appellant Association claimed that the clubhouse in Building

 No.37 is a part of their ‘phase’ based on the brochure. That is a deliberate

 misreading of the brochure. The brochure promises an amenity and the third

 respondent is still committing to provide the amenity. The brochure cannot

 be used to decide the legal definition of the term 'phase'. The third

 respondent is registering each tower (and appurtenant land) under the RERA

 Act thereby, making each tower a phase. The same is also in consonance

 with the planning approval. 5.7. Therefore, the originally proposed clubhouse building is not the

 common area within the meaning of the Act and that building is not part of

 the relevant phase of any of the members of the appellant Association. As

 far as the promised amenities are concerned, there is a blue turtle clubhouse

 which is open to the members of the association and the other residents. The

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 24/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 extent of the Club House area in the old Building No.37 is preserved and is

 being relocated in the area as indicated in the revised plan. That will also be

 opened to the members of the appellant Association and the other

 respondents. There is no diminution in the amenities available to the

 members of the appellant Association. 5.8. The third respondent does not require the consent of two-thirds of

 allottees under Section 14(2)(ii) of the Act as is being alleged by the

 appellant Association. Firstly, the entire township is on 120 acres of land

 and is being constructed in a phase-wise manner. Given the size of the entire

 township, except the towers/blocks that were completed and handed over

 pre-RERA, each of the towers/blocks has been individually registered as a

 project under the RERA. As stated above, these are to be considered as

 individual phases. The planning permission and sanctioned plan for the

 entire township was obtained way back in October 2012 and then revised

 and renewed in January 2016. This is all before the Act. The sanctioned

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 25/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 plan is once again revised in November 2020. Therefore, the entire

 township falls perfectly under the exemption provided under Explanation - II

 to Rule 4 of the TNRERA Rules as (a) the entire township is being developed

 in phases; (b) the plans are approved before the date of coming into force of

 sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the RERA Act. In such an event, the term

 'existing allottee' will mean all the allottees existing as of the year 2020

 (when the sanctioned plan was being revised). 5.9. Further, the second part of the Explanation - II states that

 "provided the scheme of developing the project in a phased manner has been

 agreed upon by the allottee and promoter in the agreements executed

 between them". This has also been agreed between the members of the

 association and the third respondent in accordance with recital 'L' and Clause - 10.3 of the construction agreements. Explanation - II is to be harmoniously

 read with Explanation - III. Explanation - III further supports the third

 respondent's contention that each tower is being registered as a project with

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 26/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 the authority and in such case, once again consent of two-thirds of the

 allottees is not required. 5.10. Mr.Srinath Sridevan, learned Senior Counsel would further

 contend that the agreement of sale, construction agreement and deed of sale

 of undivided share of lands clearly exclude the clubhouse from the common

 area and will therefore not attract the mandate under Section 14(2)(ii) of the

 RERA Act. The third respondent is exempted from obtaining the consent of

 two-thirds of the allottees. The judgment in Abbotsbury Owners'

 Association's case (stated supra), relied upon by the learned Senior Counsel

 for the appellant, is entirely misplaced and is different from the facts of the

 present case. Therefore, the learned Single Judge has correctly decided the

 Writ Petition and the same does not call for any interference.

 F. The Discussion and Findings : 6. We have considered the rival submissions made on either side and

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 27/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 perused the material records of the case. 6.1. Firstly, it is admitted that the brochure which is produced at page

 No.273 of Volume - II of the appeal paper book is the brochure prepared by

 the third respondent for marketing the apartments in the township. It

 contains the master plan for the development of the entire township. As per

 the master plan, Building No.17 is shown as a clubhouse and sports hall for

 Phase - I and Building No.18 is shown as a clubhouse for Phase - II.

 However, upon consideration of the detailed floor-wise plan of Building

 No.18 of Phase - II, it can be seen that only two floors of the said building

 are proposed as a club house and the rest of the floors/built-up areas are

 saleable commercial areas as shops and retail spaces. The construction

 agreements are accepted as pari materia and uniform with respect to the

 clauses and covenants between the parties. Clause - H of the said agreement

 reads as follows:- " H. The Promoter has already completed the
 Buildings of Phase I comprising of 6 (six) towers by the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 28/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 name of Seawood, Pinewood, Brentwood, Greenwood,
 Birchwood, and Bridgewood and handed over its
 possession to the respective customers. The Promoter is in
 the process of constructing Phase II Buildings comprising
 of 7 (seven) towers by the name Oceanic, Edina, Bayview,
 Sinovia, Tiana, Amalfi, and Anchorage (comprising of
 Phase I and II Complex). The possession of the individual
 residential Units of the completed Building in Phase I and
 Phase II have been largely offered to/handed over to the
 Allottees in due compliance of the then prevailing law read
 with the provisions of the Real Estate Regulatory Act,
 2016 and the applicable Tamil Nadu Real Estate
 (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 ("the Act").
 The various phases in which the said land is proposed to
 be developed has been explained to the Allottee and the
 Allottee has/have satisfied himself/herself/itself with the
 proposed phased development of the said land." 6.2. Clause - L of the said agreement reads as follows :- 6.3. Clause 10.3 of the said agreement reads as follows :- 6.4. Clause - 17.2 of the said agreement reads as follows :- 6.5. The relevant portion of Annexure - IV of the said agreement reads

 as follows :- 6.6. The approval for the development of the entire project was

 originally granted on 12.07.2017 and was revised by the order, dated

 15.06.2012. The translated version of the relevant portion reads as follows :- 6.7. The cause of action in the present Writ Petition is that after the

 sale of many of the blocks, the third respondent unilaterally decided to

 modify the original plan. In the location in which the clubhouse/commercial

 area was to be situated, they have decided to build new two towers which are

 residential complexes of 107 and 178 units amounting to 2 Basement + Stilt

 + 18 Floors namely, Octavius and Verona. After declaring that it had

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 32/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 completed Phase - I and Phase - II in the year 2020, the third respondent

 made an application on 28.07.2020, based on which, the impugned

 proceedings of the second respondent, dated 19.11.2020 were passed,

 thereby, granting revised plan approval. The details of the blocks that are

 already built, blocks that are sought to be removed, and the blocks that are

 newly proposed including the total FSI, and building area are all furnished in

 the impugned order itself in detail and the parameters containing the overall

 particulars are reproduced hereunder :- OSR Area 48347.39 sq.m already gifted to local body

 Details of already built 16 Block 1 to 10 and 11, 11A,
 blocks 13 and 14 block-34
 (School Building) block-35
 (Club House)
 Details of earlier approved Block-15B, 17, 19B, 21,
 building but construction not 22A, 22B, 23, 25A, 25D,
 commenced (27 blocks have 26A, 26B, 27A, 27B, 28A,
 been stationed without any 28B, 30A, 30B, 31A, 31B,
 change) 40, 44, 45, 46, 46B, 47, 48
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 33/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 & 49
 Details of earlier approved Block- 15A, 16, 18, 19A,
 existing blocks to be 19C, 20, 25B, 25C, 29,
 removed (14 blocks) 32A, 32B, 33 & 36
 Details of earlier approved Block 12, 37, 48
 blocks that have to be halted
 (3 blocks)
 Details of New Proposed Villa 101 to 109, 201 to
 Block 211, 301 to 311, 401 to 410
 and Block no 24, 50, 51,
 52, 53, 54. Details of earlier approved block now to be removed and
 altered and additional blocks to be built 1. Area of blocks deleted = 3,28,759.67 sq.m 2. Area of revised blocks = 49,671.91 sq.m 3. Area of proposed blocks = 1,20,741.21 sq.m" 6.10. It is relevant to extract paragraph Nos.6 to 10 of the judgment of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in M/s.Newtech Promoters and 1 Developers Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of U.P and Ors. which read as follows :- Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, the
 allottees, irrespective of the number of apartments or plots,
 as the case may be, booked by him or booked in the name
 of his family, or in the case of other persons such as
 companies or firms or any association of individuals, etc.,
 by whatever name called, booked in its name or booked in
 the name of its associated entities or related enterprises,
 shall be considered as one allottee only. (3) In case any structural defect or any other defect
 in workmanship, quality or provision of services or any
 other obligations of the promoter as per the agreement for
 sale relating to such development is brought to the notice
 of the promoter within a period of five years by the
 allottee from the date of handing over possession, it shall
 be the duty of the promoter to rectify such defects without
 further charge, within thirty days, and in the event of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 41/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 promoter's failure to rectify such defects within such time,
 the aggrieved allottees shall be entitled to receive
 appropriate compensation in the manner as provided under
 this Act." Thus, a careful reading of Section 14(2) of the RERA Act which is a

 non-obstante clause states that once the promoter discloses the sanctioned

 plan and layout plan, no addition or alteration can be made in the building of

 that particular person under Section 14(2)(i) of the Act without the previous

 consent of that person. 6.12. As per Section 14(2)(ii) of the Act, the promoter is prohibited

 from making any other alterations or additions to the sanctioned layout plans

 and specifications of the buildings or the common areas within the project

 without the previous written consent of at least two-thirds of the allottees,

 other than the promoter who had agreed to take apartments in such building. Section 89 of the Act also provides that the Act shall have overriding effect

 notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other law for the

 time being in force. Thus, it can be seen that Section 14(2)(ii) of the Act is a
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 42/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 clear and categorical embargo on the promoter from making any additions or

 alterations to the project once agreements have been entered into with the

 prospective buyers without the previous written consent of atleast two-thirds

 of the allottees. 6.13. Section 84 of the Act confers the power of the appropriate

 Government to frame rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. In

 exercise thereof, the Government of Tamil Nadu has framed rules called the

 Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017. Rule 4

 of the said Rules reads as follows :- Explanation I.- Any agreement already entered
 between the promoter and the allottee before
 commencement of these rules shall not be affected. Explanation II .- If the project has been conceived
 to be developed in phases, where the plans for the initial
 phase are approved by the planning authority prior to the
 date of coming into force of sub-section (1) of section 3 of
 the Act, then for such projects the requirement of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 43/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 obtaining two third consent from existing allottee, under
 clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of section 14 of the Act is
 exempted for addition/revision/modification of plans for
 subsequent phase/s of development, provided the scheme
 of developing the project in phased manner has been
 agreed upon by the allottee and promoter in the
 agreements executed between them; Explanation III.- If the approval from the
 planning authority is obtained for larger extent of land, but
 where the development is conceived to be in phases, the
 promoter shall be permitted to register each phase as an
 independent project with the Authority. In such case, the
 requirement of obtaining two third consent from existing
 allottee under clause (ii) of sub- ection (2) of section 14 of
 the Act is exempted for addition/revision/modification of
 plans for subsequent phases of development, provided the
 development in phases has been agreed upon by the
 allottee and promoter in the agreements executed between
 them, when there is no reduction in the common area and
 there is no change in the total built up area of the
 registered phase/project. Explanation IV.- It is not mandatory to substitute
 the prescribed form of agreement for sale, construction or
 any other documents executed by the allottee, in respect of
 the apartment, plot or building for the on going projects
 prior to the date of coming into force of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, the same shall be legally valid and
 enforceable and shall not be construed to limit the rights of
 the allottee under the Act and the rules and regulations
 made thereunder. (2) The promoter shall disclose all project details as
 required under the Act and the rules and regulations made
 thereunder, including the status of the project and the
 extent of completion. (3) The promoter shall disclose the size of the apartment
 based on carpet area even if earlier sold on any other basis
 such as super area, super built up area, built up area, etc.,
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 44/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 which shall not affect the validity of the agreement entered
 into between the promoter and the allottee to that extent.
 (4) In case of plotted development, the promoter shall
 disclose the actual area of the plot even if earlier sold on
 any other basis such as including the cost of Open Space
 Reservation area and splay area, development charges,
 etc., which shall not affect the validity of the agreement
 entered into between the promoter and the allottee to that
 extent." 6.14. A reading of Section 14(2)(ii) of the RERA Act along with

 Explanation – II to Rule 4 of the Rules, it would be clear that unless there is

 consent from two-thirds of the allottees, there cannot be any addition,

 revision or modification of the plan. Explanation - II only clarifies that if a

 project is to be developed in phases, the promoter holds out the details of the

 development of the particular phase to the allottees and there may be

 excess/rest of the lands which are to be developed in the subsequent phases,

 in which case, when it develops the subsequent phases, in respect of any

 addition or revision or modification of the subsequent phases, it needs to

 take consent from the respective allottees of the subsequent phase alone and

 the consent of the earlier phase need not be taken. The same is also in sync

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 45/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 with the purposes of the Act and Section 14(2) of the RERA Act as all the

 details of the development in respect of the phases which are to be

 developed in a later date will not be disclosed to the buyers. In essence, if a

 promoter discloses the details as to the number of towers, number of

 residential occupants, and of the extent of the common areas, amenities etc.,

 after holding out to the buyer and making them to purchase/inviting them to

 purchase the apartment, thereafter, he loses the right to unilaterally alter or

 make additions unless there is consent of the two-thirds of the allottees. 6.15. In this regard, Section 2(n) of the Act defines common areas

 which is as follows :- https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 46/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 (iii) the common basements, terraces, parks, play
 areas, open parking areas and common storage spaces; (iv) the premises for the lodging of persons
 employed for the management of the property including
 accommodation for watch and ward staffs or for the
 lodging of community service personnel; (v) installations of central services such as
 electricity, gas, water and sanitation, air-conditioning and
 incinerating, system for water conservation and renewable
 energy; (vi) the water tanks, sumps, motors, fans,
 compressors, ducts and all apparatus connected with
 installations for common use; (vii) all community and commercial facilities as
 provided in the real estate project; (viii) all other portion of the project necessary or
 convenient for its maintenance, safety, etc., and in
 common use;" (emphasis supplied)

 6.18. As per the clause in the construction agreement, it was

 contended that the entire project is being executed in Phase - I and Phase - II

 which was extracted supra. Paragraph No.7 of the counter-affidavit filed in
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 48/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 the present Writ Appeal is as follows:- " 7. I state that after obtaining the relevant sanctions,
 the 3rd Respondent completed the buildings of Phase I,
 which comprises of six towers, namely, Seawood,
 Pinewood, Brentwood, Greenwood, Birchwood and
 Bridgewood that comprised of 1094 Units/Apartments. I
 state that the 3rd Respondent has partly completed Phase
 II of the Project, namely, seven towers that have been
 completed are, Oceanic, Edina, Bayview, Sinovia, Tiana,
 Amalfi and Anchorage that comprised of 1174
 Units/Apartments. There are three structure/towers under
 development, namely, Octavius, Verona and Bayhaven -Villas (which forms part of Phase II)." (empahsis supplied)

 Thus, the version as per the counter-affidavit filed in the Writ Appeal

 is that these new towers are part of Phase - II. 6.19. During the reply arguments, Mr Srinath Sridevan learned Senior

 Counsel would submit that the entire interpretation of the term ‘phase’ by

 the third respondent is incorrect as per the RERA Act . Accordingly to him,

 the term 'phase' is loosely used without adverting to its correct meaning as

 per the Act. As per Section 2(n) of the RERA Act, a phase would mean as per

 the registration under the Act and the present project has been registered as a
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 49/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 separate project and therefore, the original holding out in the agreement or

 the averment in the counter-affidavit would not make all the lands as

 common areas. The members of the appellant Association can treat the land,

 on which the particular building is built alone as the common area in their

 respect. 6.20. In this regard, it is also relevant to advert to the definition of the

 project under Section 2(zj) of the Act which reads as follows:- 6.21. Section 2(zn) of the Act defines the Real Estate project as

 follows:- Though it could mean individual buildings, it includes the common

 areas, the development works and the easement rights and appurtenances

 belonging thereto. 6.22. We have already extracted the definition of ‘common area’ to

 include all the community and commercial facilities provided in the Real

 Estate project, thereby, the entire Building No.18 is a common area. It is

 pertinent to state here that the entire township is developed as a gated

 community and each building does not have any access road which is gifted

 to the local authority. 6.23. On the contrary, the promoter had undertaken upon itself to

 develop it as a complex with shared facilities and amenities. Therefore,

 even going by the arguments of the learned Senior Counsel, Mr.Srinath

 Sridevan, that each of the buildings should be considered as a separate phase

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 51/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 by itself, the clubhouse and the commercial complex comprised in

 Block/Building No.18 is a common area as it is represented as the club and

 commercial facility for the seven buildings which are originally termed as

 Phase - II and thus, cannot be altered without the consent of the two-third

 owners in respect of each of the seven towers. It must be seen that the very

 purpose of the Act is to prevent the promoters from holding out one thing

 and thereafter carrying out another. Any purchaser of the apartment in all

 these seven buildings of Phase - II agreed for a particular price by taking

 into account the number of residential towers which are coming up within

 the gated community. If there are going to be more number of towers than

 the original one which is promised, then, the entire land topography and

 occupancy changes. 6.24. The price of the original apartment is agreed upon considering

 the original master plan which is held out to the buyer. Therefore, accepting

 the arguments of the learned Senior Counsel for the third respondent, that an

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 52/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 equivalent clubhouse area will be provided in another new building/floor of

 the sports complex would defeat the very purpose of Section 14 of the Act.

 From the wordings of Section 14 of the Act which is a non-obstante clause

 and Section 89 of the Act, by which, the provisions of the Act are to override

 the other regulations, it would be clear that the second respondent cannot

 grant a modification or revision of the building approval in violation of Section 14 of the RERA Act. Rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Combined

 Development and Building Rules, 2019 only states that mere granting of

 approval by itself will not mean the responsibility or clearance of the aspects

 mentioned therein. But, that does not in any manner enable the second

 respondent to ignore the mandate of the RERA Act and grant permission for

 an illegal modification. Especially when the project is partly executed after

 the registration with the RERA authority and the buildings are

 allotted/sold/occupied by the parties. Therefore, we hold that impugned

 planning approval, granting modification without the consent of two-thirds

 of the members of the allottees of each of the 7 buildings in Phase - II, to

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 53/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 which, the block in question is held out is a common area that is being

 community facility for a clubhouse and commercial facility, as illegal and is

 liable to be quashed. 6.25. The learned Single Judge has already held that the planning

 authorities do not come within the ambit and jurisdiction of the Special

 Court under the RERA Act and therefore, the challenge to the impugned plan

 cannot be made by the statutory proceedings under the RERA Act . No

 arguments to the contrary is also made on behalf of the respondents. For

 the forgoing findings, the finding of the learned Single Judge that in respect

 of the project already registered, exemption is granted under Rule 4 of the

 TNRERA Rules is absolutely incorrect on a plain reading of RERA and the

 Rules. 6.26. Secondly, such consent is to be with reference to the change

 which is to be made. Clause - 10.3 of the agreement which is extracted

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 54/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 would only be in respect of renewal/revision which may become necessary

 to comply with any statutory requirements. The same cannot be consent for

 altering the community facility namely, the clubhouse specifically promised

 in Annexure - IV to the agreement. 6.27. Section 3 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 which defines

 consent is as follows :- Therefore, at the relevant point in time, when it was expressly held out

 that there would be 6 + 7 residential towers only, it cannot be said that the

 allottees of the flat have acceded to or consented that the promoter is

 allowed to put any number of towers or to do away with the clubhouse and

 commercial facility. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 55/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 6.28. Even as per the case of the promoter, the third respondent, the

 change was undertaken by it, only considering market conditions in the year

 2020 and therefore, what was not contemplated at the time of agreeing could

 not have been consented upon by the parties. In any event, consent that is

 granted by a particular owner is different from the written consent of two-

 thirds of the allottees. In respect of a building or flat of a particular

 buyer/allottee, if any change in plan is made, then, the consent which is

 taken in the agreement with that particular allottee may hold good. But the

 nature of consent which is required under Section 14(2) of the Act is the

 written consent of two-thirds of the allottees and means the coming together

 of two-thirds of the owners and deciding to permit the variation or alteration

 since it is going to affect all the occupants. Thus, the decision of the two-

 thirds majority is imposed on the rest of the persons. Therefore, the finding

 of the learned Single Judge that they have consented to the development

 agreement is also absolutely incorrect in law. We also do not find that the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 56/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 appellant has suppressed any material facts which are relevant to the issue. 6.29. On the other hand, it is the builder who is changing its version

 on every occasion. When the third respondent is developing the entire area

 of 128 acres into a gated community and township, it has to stick to its plan

 concerning the number of buyers, dwelling units, commercial areas etc. It

 cannot keep on adding the number of towers etc., to render the original

 price, in which, it sold flats meaningless. The very purpose of the RERA Act and its registration is to safeguard such purchasers from this kind of changes,

 that is, the promoters of a single building putting up additional floors and

 promoters of composite township putting up additional buildings than

 promised. Thus, we hold that this is a fit case for our interference as the

 Appellate Court in the findings of the learned Single Judge as the findings

 are completely not in tune with the express provisions or the purposes of the

 RERA. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 57/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 G. The Result : 7. Accordingly, this Writ Appeal is allowed on the following terms:- application, the second respondent shall consider the same in accordance

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 58/61 W.A.No.3328 of 2023 with law and pass orders thereon. (iii) There shall be no order as to costs. Consequently,

 C.M.P.No.20445 of 2023 is closed.