1. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for recovery of Rs.

1,38,800/­ against the defendant with the following prayer: CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 1 of 16 2. The plaintiff has stated his case as under: 3.1. The plaintiff has not approached the Court with clean hands. CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 3 of 16 The plaintiff was not appointed as Assistant Manager on salary of 

 Rs.20,000/­. No appointment letter was issued to the plaintiff. 

 Appointment letter filed by the plaintiff is a vague and forged 

 document. The plaintiff had approached the defendant with a 

 business proposal to work on partnership basis. It was agreed 

 between them that the plaintiff would use the name and resources of 

 the defendant to solicit work from the market on whose basis the 

 defendants would give an agreed percentage to the plaintiff as a 

 share from the profits for getting business. However, the plaintiff 

 was never on pay rolls of the defendant as an employee. The visiting 

 card was prepared in favour of the plaintiff so that he could use the 

 name of the defendant to solicit the business. However, he was never 

 promised to give a salary of Rs.20,000/­ or Rs.25,000/­ after three 

 months. 3.2. The defendant had suffered a huge loss of Rs.6 lacs on the 

 event of Durga Puja only because of the carelessness and negligence 

 of the plaintiff. The plaintiff was guilty of leaking official data / 

 profit margins to the market people to break away the clients of the 

 defendant to establish his own event management company. He was 

 also guilty of provoking and enticing the employees of the defendant 

 company against the interest of the defendant company and he 

 wanted to establish his own team. The plaintiff had signed a letter of 

 commitment which prohibited all such acts. Due to all these acts of CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 4 of 16 the plaintiff the defendant asked the plaintiff to discontinue the 

 alliance and broke ties with the plaintiff in the month of November 

 2012. The defendant paid the plaintiff a sum of Rs.20,000/­ for the 

 month of November 2012. The plaintiff also has stolen certain 

 registers from the office of the defendant. Hence, it is prayed that the 

 suit may be dismissed. 4. The plaintiff has filed replication. In the replication the 

plaintiff has denied the allegations of the defendant and reiterated the 

facts stated in the plaint. However, in the replication the defendant 

has admitted that he had resigned in the month of December, 2012. 5. On the basis of the pleadings following issues have been 

framed vide order dated 27.07.2013. 1. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a recovery of Rs.

 1,38,800/­from the defendant as prayed for ? OPP 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an interest @ 24% P.A. 

 as prayed for ? OPP 3. Whether the plaintiff had been appointed as Assistant 

 Manager on salary of Rs.20,000/­ per month by the 

 defendant ? OPP 4. Whether the plaintiff has no cause of action against the 

 defendant ? OPD 5. Relief. 6. The plaintiff has examined himself as PW1. He has tendered 

his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/1. He has reiterated the CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 5 of 16 facts stated in the plaint. He has relied upon the following documents. 7. The defendant has examined Sh. Girish Kumar Sharma as 

DW1. He has tendered his evidence by way of affidavit as DW1/A. 

He has reiterated the contentions raised in the WS. He has relied upon 

the following documents: 8. After completion of the evidence by the parties, the matter 

was fixed for final arguments. 9. I have heard the Ld. counsels of the parties and carefully 

perused the material on record. My issue wise findings are as follows. 10. Issue no.4: Whether the plaintiff has no cause of action 

against the defendant ? OPD CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 6 of 16 This issue is taken first as it is related to the maintainability 

of the suit. The onus to prove this issue was on the defendant. 

However, neither any evidence is led by the defendant nor arguments 

have been advanced to prove this issue. After going through the 

material on record, I am of the considered opinion that the plaintiff 

has a cause of action against the defendant. The material is sufficient 

to establish that the plaintiff has a valid cause of action. Therefore, 

this issue is decided against the defendant and in favour of the 

plaintiff. 11. Issue no.3: Whether the plaintiff had been appointed 

as Assistant Manager on salary of Rs.20,000/­ per month by the 

defendant ? OPP

 The onus to prove this issue was on the plaintiff. The 

plaintiff has claimed that he had been appointed as Assistant Manager 

on a monthly salary of Rs.20,000/­ per month by the defendant. To 

prove this issue the plaintiff has examined himself as PW1. In his 

evidence the plaintiff has specifically stated that he was appointed as 

Assistant Manager at a monthly salary of Rs.20,000/­ per month.. 12. The defendant has contended that the plaintiff was not 

appointed as an employee. Rather, he was inducted as a partner. As it 

does not remain in dispute that the plaintiff had worked with the 

defendant, the burden was on the defendant to prove that the plaintiff 

was a partner and not an employee. However, no evidence is led CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 7 of 16 except the oral statement in the examination of DW­1. No partnership 

deed has been shown. No other evidence to show that the plaintiff 

was treated as partner and not as an employee has been filed. Further, 

the defendant has admitted that an official email ID was allotted to 

the plaintiff. It has also been admitted by defendant that payments 

were made to the plaintiff. In WS in para­11 to 14 on reply of merits, 

the defendant has stated that the defendant had paid a sum of Rs.

20,000/­ as cash for the month of November 2012. All these 

admissions are sufficient to prove the contention of the plaintiff that 

he had been working as employee with the defendant. In these 

circumstance, I have no hesitation to reach at the conclusion that the 

plaintiff had working as employee in the defendant company. 13. The plaintiff has relied upon various documents to show 

that he was working as Manager­Operations. However, admissibility 

of some of these documents has been challenged by the defendant. 

Therefore, I shall first decide the validity of these documents. 14. The plaintiff has relied upon an 'appointment letter' dated 

29.05.2012 which is Ex.PW1/A1. It is alleged that this appointment 

letter has been issued by the defendant. The defendant has denied 

issuing of any such letter. 15. Ld. Counsel for the defendant has argued that this document 

can not be read in evidence as it is not proved as per law. Ld. Counsel 

for the plaintiff, on the other hand has argued that the document is a CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 8 of 16 valid document issued by the defendant and therefore it has to be read 

in evidence. 16. I have considered the arguments. Document Ex. PW/A1 is a 

print out of electronics document. It is not a signed document, i.e., it 

does not bear signature of defendant or any authorized person. 

Admittedly, it has not been sent by the defendant or any authorised 

person to the plaintiff. As per the plaintiff, it was mailed to him by 

Mr. Haroon Rashid. Now this person is not an authorised person of 

the defendant. As per the record, he works as runner in the defendant 

company. There is no material on record to suggest that he was 

authorised by the defendant or any senior official to send this letter to 

the plaintiff. Further, it was sent by email on 27.02.2013 while the 

plaintiff had joined the defendant on 29.05.2012. Therefore, the 

authenticity of the document has come under doubts. The plaintiff has 

failed to prove the authenticity of this document. This document is 

not proved as per law. The document does not bear any seal, stamp or 

signatures of the defendant or authorised signatory. Therefore, it 

cannot be read in evidence. 17. The plaintiff has also relied upon the alleged photographs of 

the attendance register which are Ex.PW1/B2(1 to 10) and Ex.PW1/3. 

These documents are print out of an electronic document. However, 

no certificate has been filed U/s 65 B of Indian Evidence Act. 

Original register has not been produced. Therefore, these documents CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 9 of 16 are not proved as per law and therefore they cannot be read in 

evidence. 18. One another document relied upon by the plaintiff is 

Ex.PW1/C1 which is a bank statement. This bank statement is not 

proved as per law. It does not contain any affidavit U/s 65 of Indian 

Evidence Act . No witness has been examined to prove the 

authenticity that the document has been issued by the bank. 

Therefore, this document also cannot be read in evidence. The next 

document is Ex.PW1/F which is AD card. However, there is no 

necessity of proving this document as it is not relevant for deciding 

the issues in the present case. 19. Now, there remains only one document i.e, the visiting card 

which is Ex.PW1/C which has been relied upon by the plaintiff. The 

case of the plaintiff is that the defendant had also got the visiting card 

printed after his joining the company. 20. The defendant has contended that the plaintiff was never 

employed as Assistant Manager. Its defence is that the plaintiff had 

joined as a partner. However, in the WS the defendant has admitted 

that one visiting card was got prepared for the plaintiff by the 

defendant. However, it is contended, it was prepared just to get 

business to the company. Further, in his cross examination, DW­1 has 

state that the visiting card Ex. PW­1/C is not the visiting card which 

was prepared on instructions of the defendant. It is stated that a CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 10 of 16 separate card was prepared at which no designation of the plaintiff 

was mentioned. However, no such suggestion has been given to 

PW­1 during his cross examination. Nor any such averment has been 

made in WS or affidavit of DW­1. It appears to be an afterthought. 

Thus, it stands admitted that the defendant had got printed the visiting 

card to the plaintiff. In these circumstances, I hold that the plaintiff, 

on the balance of probability, has proved that the document 

Ex.PW1/C is the visiting card which was provided by the defendant 

to the plaintiff. On this visiting card, the designation of the plaintiff is 

mentioned as Manager­Operations. As discussed earlier, it stands 

proved that the plaintiff was working as employee with the defendant. 

The defendant has also admitted that Rs.20,000/­ were paid to the 

plaintiff for the month of November. In its WS in para 7­10 in reply 

on merits the defendant has stated that it used to give a sum of Rs.

20,000/­ per month to the plaintiff as incentive and as to take care of 

expenses incurred by the plaintiff to solicit work from the market. 

However, no evidence is led to prove that it was not monthly salary 

amount of the plaintiff. Thus, it stands proved that the plaintiff was 

appointed by the defendant as Assistant Manager at a monthly salary 

of Rs.20,000/­. Therefore, this issue is decided in favour of the 

plaintiff and against the defendant. 21. Issue no.1: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a 

recovery of Rs.1,38,800/­from the defendant as prayed for ? OPP CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 11 of 16 The onus prove this issue was upon the plaintiff. The 

plaintiff has claimed recovery of Rs.1,38,800/­ from the defendant. 

He has claimed the amount on the basis of the table provided by him 

in para­15 of the plaint which is as under: 22. The defendant has denied all the amount claimed by the 

plaintiff. It is argued that the plaintiff is not entitled to claim, and the 

defendant is not liable to pay, any amount. 23. I shall deal with the each head separately as shown in the 

table. First I shall take the amount claimed at point (ii) in the table. 

The plaintiff has claimed Rs.30,500/­ as difference of salary of Rs.

5000/­ from 01.09.2012 to 03.03.2013. It is the contention of the 

plaintiff that the defendant had promised to enhance his salary to Rs.

25,000/­ after three months. The defendant has denied any such 

promise. 24. I have gone through the material on record. However, there 

is no material on record to prove that the plaintiff was promised to 

increase his salary to Rs.25,000/­ per month. Admittedly, the plaintiff CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 12 of 16 never issued any notice or made any complaint in writing, demanding 

this increase in the salary after three months. The defendant has 

categorically denied this allegation of plaintiff. Mere oral averment is 

not sufficient to prove this contention. In these circumstances, I am of 

the considered opinion that the plaintiff has failed to prove that he 

was entitled to salary of Rs.25,000/­ from 01.09.2012. Therefore, the 

amount of Rs.30,500/­ claimed in the table cannot be awarded. 25. The plaintiff has further claimed Rs. 1,300/­ as two days' 

salary which was wrongly deducted by the defendant while the 

plaintiff was on leave in August 2012. There is no evidence on record 

to show that such a deduction was made. Further, there is no evidence 

on record to show that the plaintiff was entitled to any leave with pay. 

The alleged appointment letter filed by the plaintiff is not proved as 

per law. The burden was on the plaintiff to prove that two days salary 

was deducted by the defendant and that he was entitled to paid leaves. 

However, the plaintiff has failed to show that the defendant had 

wrongly deducted two days salary from his salary for the month of 

August, 2012. Therefore, the plaintiff can not be awarded this 

amount. 26. The plaintiff has further claimed Rs.25,000/­ as one month 

salary for notice period of one month. It is contended that the 

defendant had removed the plaintiff without giving any notice and 

therefore the defendant is liable to pay salary of one month in lieu of CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 13 of 16 one month notice. The defendant has denied the claim. However, 

there is no evidence on record to prove that defendant was required to 

issue one month notice before removing the plaintiff. Therefore, the 

plaintiff cannot claim the salary for notice period. Hence, this amount 

also can not be granted to the plaintiff. 27. The plaintiff has also claimed salary till 03rd March, 2013. It 

is his contention that he had worked with the defendant till 

03.03.2013 when the defendant had removed him and asked him not 

to come from next day. The defendant, on the other hand, has 

contended that the plaintiff had discontinued his alliance with the 

defendant in the month of November, 2012. The defendant has relied 

upon the resignation letter of the plaintiff which was sent by him 

through mail and which is Ex. PW­1/D1. The plaintiff has admitted 

that he had sent this email. However his contention is that it was not 

accepted by the defendant and director of the defendant had orally 

asked him to continue his service. 28. As discussed earlier, it has been proved that the plaintiff had 

been working as Assistant Manager with the defendant. No doubt, 

there is a resignation letter of the plaintiff. However, the defendant 

has failed to prove that this resignation was accepted by it and 

thereafter the plaintiff was relieved from his job. No evidence is led 

by the defendant to prove that the plaintiff did not continue his 

service after November, 2012. The plaintiff has claimed his dues for CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 14 of 16 the months of November, 2012 to February 2013, and for three days 

in the month of March, 2013. The defendant in the WS and evidence 

has contended that last payment was made to the plaintiff of Rs.

20,000/­ in the month of November 2012. However, the plaintiff has 

denied receiving of this amount. The defendant has not led any 

evidence to prove that such a payment was made by it to the plaintiff. 

The burden was on the defendant to prove this payment. However, it 

has failed to discharge the burden. Thus, it stands established that the 

defendant did not pay the salary for the period starting from the 

month of November, 2012 till 03rd March, 2013. Therefore, the 

defendant is liable to pay the salary for the aforesaid period. Hence 

the plaintiff is entitled to an amount of Rs.82,000/­ as due of salary 

for the aforesaid period. 29. In the light of discussion herein above, I am of the 

considered opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to a salary for the 

period starting from November 2012 till 3rd March, 2013. Thus, he is 

entitled to recovery of Rs.82,000/­ as salary for the aforesaid period. 

In terms of this order, the issue is decided in favour of the plaintiff 

and against the defendant. 30. Issue no.2: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an 

interest @ 24% P.A. as prayed for ? OPP

 The onus to prove this issue was on the plaintiff. The plaintiff 

has claimed interest @ 24% P.A. However, there is nothing on record CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 15 of 16 to show that it was an agreed rate of interest. In the absence of any 

agreement, such an exorbitant rate of interest cannot be awarded. The 

plaintiff is entitled only to a reasonable rate of interest. In terms of 

above order, the issue is decided in favour of the plaintiff and against 

the defendant. 31. Relief. In the light of discussion herein above, suit of the plaintiff 

is decreed. The plaintiff is entitled to a decree of recovery of Rs.

82,000/­ from the defendant. He is also entitled to an interest @ 6% 

P.A. from January, 2013 till preparation of the decree. He is further 

entitled to an interest @ 6% P.A. from the date of preparation of the 

decree till realization of the amount. He is further entitled to the cost 

of the suit. 32. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. Pronounced in the open Court (Dinesh Kumar)
on this 28th day of February, 2014. Civil Judge, South East, 
 Saket Courts, New Delhi. CS No.631/13 Shri Tariq Anwar vs Global Visionaries Eventz P. Ltd. Page 16 of 16