The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) is going to review and strengthen spam regulation, TRAI chairman Anil Kumar Lahoti said on the sidelines of the Broadband India Forum’s India Satcom 2024 summit on Wednesday. TRAI regulates unsolicited commercial communication (UCC, also called spam) under the Telecom Commercial Communication Customer Preference Regulations, 2018 (TCCCPR-2018).

This comes a day after TRAI met with telecom companies and their telemarketers about the spam issue. While specifics of the meetings have not been disclosed, the regulator says that the following issues were discussed in the meeting:

TRAI has asked telcos and their telemarketers to take immediate action against this issue, including implementing technical solutions for traceability. It has also asked them to prevent their enterprise customers from making calls using g 10-digit numbers.

Scams, on the other hand, are regulated by other authorities like the Department of Telecommunication (DoT) and the Ministry of Home Affairs. Lahoti mentioned TRAI’s plans to strengthen regulations in response to a reporter’s question about whether telecom customers could expect criminal liability for scammers. “As far as [a] scam is concerned, that falls in the domain of law,” he said, emphasizing the role of other players in curbing scams.

“TRAI, along with the RBI (Reserve Bank of India), SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India), IRDAI (Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority) and now even the PFRDA (Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority) have come together and are working on the issue of scams,” Lahoti said, shedding light on collaborative efforts to curb spam/scam calls and messages.

Lahoti mentioned that TRAI will come out with a consultation paper on the terms and conditions for satellite communication services shortly. He mentioned that this consultation would be in response to a reference sent to the regulator by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT).

Lahoti also discussed an ongoing consultation on regulatory service authorizations that the government will grant under the Telecommunication Act of 2023.“TRAI is considering the possibility of reducing the number of authorizations and simplifying the terms and conditions to improve ease of doing business,” he said. While Lahoti mentioned that TRAI is considering a reduction in the number of authorizations, the consultation paper questioned the need for new authorizations or sub-categories of authorizations under the Telecom Act, 2023.

This paper led some to question whether the TRAI would introduce authorizations for over-the-top (OTT) communication services like WhatsApp and Telegram. As per India’s telecom regulations, any company/person seeking to provide telecommunication services (calling, messaging, internet access, etc.) must obtain a specific service authorization. Telecom companies have argued for years that similar authorization should apply to over-the-top (OTT) communication services like WhatsApp and Telegram, as shown by the deliberations in a July 2023 consultation .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event