What’s the news: Department of Telecommunications’ (DoT) Artificial Intelligence and Facial Recognition powered solution – ASTR, detected more than 67 lakh suspected mobile connections and disconnected 55.52 lakhs of these connections that failed subscriber re-verification, said the Communications Ministry in the Lok Sabha on December 6, 2023.

“More than 70,000 Point of Sales (SIM agents) involved in selling such mobile connections have also been blacklisted and 365 First Information report (FIRs) have been registered with police authorities against more than 1890 Points of Sale (POS). 1,31,961 mobile handsets, used either with mobile connections taken with fake / forged documents or involved in cyber-crime / financial frauds, have been blocked on pan-India basis,” said the Ministry in its written reply to queries about fake call centres.

ASTR and concerns of privacy: The ASTR is a system that uses subscriber images provided by Telecom Subscriber Providers (TSPs) to detect duplication of SIM card registrations under different names, guardian name, date of birth or any other KYC parameter. However, subscribers whose facial data are processed in this manner are not notified about the functions of ASTR. In 2022, MediaNama filed an RTI application asking the DoT for ASTR’s tender document along with other details like data storage location, retention and user consent policy. It failed to answer these questions after which MediaNama filed a first appeal but to no avail.

Can citizens be wrongly accused of crimes? Although the exemptions under India’s data protection law may exempt DoT from requiring user consent for processing data, there still exist concerns about accuracy. In March 2023, MediaNama had reported the case of a Delhi resident who couldn’t get a new SIM card for her father because the original photo fed to the ASTR facial recognition system could not recognise her father’s face that had aged 15 years. It essentially considered the fresh application an illegal SIM duplication attempt.

The fact that the latest data shows how 67 lakh connections were detected but only around 55 lakh were disconnected raises similar concern of whether innocent citizens may be wrongly accused of crimes due to technological issues like ageing, low accuracy rates or racial bias.

Other scam call detections by DoT

DoT found 162 illegal telecom setups between 2021 and 2023 and disconnected 60 lakh fraudulent mobile connections. It found 35 setups in FY 2021-2022, followed by 62 setups in FY 2022-23 and finally 65 setups in FY 2023-24 that allowed international calls with spoofed Indian numbers.

Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) disconnected 13.08 lakh mobile connections via Sanchar Saathi portal which facilitates citizens to report international calls received with Indian Calling Line Identification (CLI), and to check and report mobile connections allegedly taken in their name.

Additionally, Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) disconnected approximately 2.78 lakh mobile connections reported by law enforcement agencies on the National Cyber Crime reporting portal.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event