SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Not all men, where is the candle light marches for men, why is no one talking about issues related to men, feminism is a propaganda to destroy Indian societies - to all such men and everyone else, do read
DATE: 2024-09-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1faebr3/not_all_men_where_is_the_candle_light_marches_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello people, before I get into the post, I want to give two disclaimers:

1 - This will be a long post and I will not write a TLDR

2 - If you get easily triggered, claim everything is slander against men, victimize yourself on behalf of your gender and generally think being a man is tough, then do read, this may be for you.

Alright, after the heinous RG Kar case, when the public sentiment and outrage was pouring over every possible platform (including traditional media, as it was a non-BJP state), there was a small group of people who started their own separate online revolution - 'Not all men'. Even after assuaging the insecurities, that we know not all men but, this is an outrage, this movement did not die down, rather caught momentum and spread. While I was going through some of the posts, comments, memes, tweets, YouTube videos and almost every other form of media, I came to a realization, that the main aim for these posts are to portray that men are generally well behaved, are okay co-existing with independent women, do not want a slave for themselves and their parents, do not send creepy DMs or post nasty comments under posts of women and are generally the good Samaritans. A few monsters are bringing shame to the entire masculine society and it is absolutely unfair to them. So while the poor victims of crimes await justice, let's assuage the insecurities that Indian men generally are developing. 

Let's first start with statistics:

As per the NCRB and Ministry of Home Affairs data, there were 400,000+ cases reported of crimes against women in 2021 including r\*\*\*, assault to outrage modesty, human trafficking, dowry deaths and cruelty by husbands and relatives. Crime against children was a 149,000+, including r\*\*\*, kidnapping, murder and assault. The conviction rate for crimes against women was approximately 26%, while for crimes against children it was roughly 35%. Remember these numbers because these will show the grim reality. The authorities very stupidly do not maintain official numbers of crimes against men by women but, that stood around 6% (of all crimes committed in 2021) as per some estimates.

What does this tell us, something that we already know, crimes by men against women, children and other men is a lot higher than crimes by women against men, children and other women.

Now let's look at another aspect. I have come across multiple posts of women cheating on men, accusing them of dowry, false cases, high alimony demands etc. Yes, that does happen but, again let's look at some statistics. In 2021, under section 498A, as per the anti-dowry law, almost 12% cases that were filed were false. Which means the inverse should be true, which is 88% cases were from actual victims. We have been so blinded by selective messaging on social media, that we look at a few cases and start believing it to be the general reality, when it is far from it. The general reality is, women are still being persecuted for not providing dowry by their husbands or the husband's relatives. Just because men feel they are not being victim enough and want to pick few cases, stamp it on their foreheads and do the drama dance, doesn't mean its not happening.

On to fake r\*\*\* cases, the NCRB data indicates that up to 10% cases could be fake but, I am not going to go into that as it is an estimate and not reliable to make any credible comments.

Now here is my question for men who climbed on the 'Not All Men' bandwagon. Why? Ofcourse not all men do crimes, so does that mean a woman should be comfortable and not be scared of every stranger who looks at her a little weird. Won't her instinct kick in? Or do you think she should be trusting to a point that something bad actually happens? Here is my suggestion. Why don't you guys who loved playing victim tattoo 'I Will Never Commit Any Crime and Am Generally Safe to be Around' on your foreheads, so that they know, you are not one of the monsters. 

It is hilarious, sad and bewildering that one case where a Bangalore techie left his wife and absconded to Delhi, only to be found and gave a statement saying, I won't go back to my wife as she curtails my freedom. This post was everywhere and the comments under it ranged from - 'where is the candle march now', 'because its a man, so no outrage'. Honestly, if you thought there is a comparison between these two cases, you are sick in the head and need as much help as you can get. Or when a post comes about women's ludicrous demands for alimony and men start defending dowry. These cases just show that there is still a lot of work to be done and the age of social media is not helping. It has allowed every stupid, uneducated and assuming person to push their opinions online.

An influencer who goes by the name 'adultfluencer' does a solid job of showing how progress can be undone. Although he does do a good job of trying to level the playing field by giving a message of how crime is crime, no matter the gender. He doesn't have any realization that statistically, majority of crimes, the most heinous ones are committed by men. And women still need a seat at the table, equal footing is not fully achieved and there is some work still to be done. Otherwise why would monsters like the criminals from Nirbhaya case, be so blatant in saying 'taali ek haath se nahi bajti'.

 
So please stop victimizing yourself, you will not get a nice guy certificate from the government and people, strangers especially, will generally be apprehensive of you. Its got nothing to do with you. But playing victim is a shameful act, that has absolutely no credibility and rather shows how insecure you are. Stop with the stupid 'Boy's life is so difficult, they have to earn, take responsibility of family, care for parents, so much stress etc. etc', there is no medal or pat on the back for this. Such is life, everyone's life, except for the ones born with a silver spoon and don't have to work to earn, is difficult. Everyone will have sick and old parents, everyone will have to struggle to earn a livelihood, everyone will have to take care of their families, pay school fees for children etc. 

Women have to do it too, even homemakers have to struggle. You try doing waking up early morning, cooking, cleaning, sending kids to school, cooking again, sending husband to office, take care of the house, cook dinner again, be a dutiful wife, take care of in-laws. You will give up in a week. That is life, its meant to be a struggle, you are no special. You don't deserve an award for doing what everyone is doing, you don't deserve an award for being nice, you should be nice irrespective. If you compare yourselves to monsters of the society and think you are nicer than them, you have already failed.

Finally, we are surrounded by women. Just take a brief pause and imagine if something disastrous happens to someone close to you, it will shatter you. No amount of niceness or victimization of the world will not be able to help you. Hence, I am saying stop making a fool out of yourself, hum ladke hai, hamare saath aise hi hota hai, shut the f\*\*\* up