------------------------------------------------

 Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 &

 31 of 2010 -------------------------------------------------

 Dated this the 13th day of April, 2012

 JUDGMENTS

Basant,J. Mat. Appeal No.75 of 2008: These questions are raised for our consideration by Sri.S.

Sreekumar, the learned senior counsel for the appellant in this

appeal. 2. Facts are simple. Parties are Christians by religion.

Theirs was a traditional arranged marriage in accordance with

the customary religious rites. The betrothal took place on 5/5/03

The marriage was solemnized on 17/5/2003. They lived together

with ample opportunity for physical access after their marriage.

It was realised that she was pregnant. Doctor was consulted.

Urine test confirmed pregnancy. USG scan was taken on

26/6/2003. It showed that the gestational age of the foetus was

61 days (8 weeks and 5 days) on 26/6/03. She gave birth to a

healthy baby on 6/1/04. The husband and his relatives

entertained a serious doubt whether the respondent/wife had

actually conceived in her relationship with the appellant. It

allegedly dawned on them that the respondent/wife must have Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 3 :- been pregnant through another on the date of her marriage with

the appellant. 3. The appellant on 16/1/04 filed a petition for declaration

of nullity under Sec.18 of the Divorce Act on the ground that his

consent for marriage was vitiated by fraud. He was not aware of

the fact that she was pregnant through another on the date of his

marriage. He would not have consented if this information were

revealed/available to him. He prayed that his marriage may be

declared to be null and void. 4. The respondent resisted the prayer for declaration of

nullity of marriage. She was not pregnant on the date of her

marriage with the appellant. She had conceived only after the

solemnization of her marriage with the appellant. The child was

conceived in her physical relationship with the appellant. The

child born on 6/1/04 was a premature child and the child was

born in valid matrimony. The respondent invoked the

conclusive presumption under Sec.112 of the Evidence Act to

contend that the child was legitimate. Paternity and legitimacy

have to be conclusively presumed, it was contended. Access

after the date of marriage having not been disputed and the Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 4 :- heavy burden on the appellant to dislodge the presumption under Sec.112 of the Evidence Act by the only method of proving non-

access having not been discharged, the claim for declaration of

nullity must fail, it was contended. It was prayed that the

petition may be dismissed. 5. Parties went to trial on these contentions. On the side of

the appellant/petitioner, before the Family Court, P.Ws.1 to 3

were examined and Exts.A1 to A5 were marked. On the side of

the respondent, R.W.1 was examined and Exts.B1 and B2 were

marked. Exts.X1 and X2 were also marked as court Exhibits by

consent. 6. Ext.X1 is the D.N.A. test report obtained from the Rajeev

Gandhi Centre for Bio-technology at Trivandrum dated 4/1/2005.

After receipt of that report, the respondent claimed that a further

test must be conducted. When her prayer was rejected by the

Family Court, she came to this Court and obtained judgment

dated 14/10/05 in W.P.(c) No.28841/05 in her favour. Thereafter

an Advocate Commissioner was appointed and the parties were

taken to Hydrabad to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory.

It was thereafter that Ext.X2 DNA report was obtained. Both Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 5 :- Exts.X1 and X2 showed that the appellant was not the biological

father of the child born to the respondent after marriage. 7. Before this Court, P.W.2 was recalled and examined.

P.Ws.4 and 5 were examined and Exts.A6 and A7 issued by P.Ws.4

and 5 respectively were marked. R.W.2 was examined on the

side of the respondent. This Court felt that certain clarifications

were required and that is how further evidence was permitted to

be adduced before this Court under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC . 8. Arguments have been advanced by the learned counsel

for the rival contestants. As we felt that certain interesting

questions are raised for consideration, we requested Advocate

Sri.C.S. Dias to help this Court as Amicus Curiae. We place on

record our appreciation of the efforts taken by the learned

counsel including the Amicus Curiae to help this Court in the

disposal of this case. 9. Before coming to the specific factual controversy as to

whether it has been proved satisfactorily that the respondent was

pregnant on the date of her marriage with the appellant, it will

be appropriate, we feel, to refer to certain questions of law that

have been raised. We shall initially discuss such questions Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 6 :- raised and shall later proceed to consider the factual dispute

specifically raised. 10. Declaration of nullity is claimed under Sec.18 of the

Divorce Act. The provisions relating to nullity of marriage

appear in Chapter IV of the Divorce Act . Sections 18 to 21 are

available in that Chapter. We are primarily concerned with Secs.18 and 19 . Sec.20 stands deleted. 11. We extract Secs.18 and 19 of the Divorce Act below: (emphasis supplied) 12. We are in this case concerned not with any of the four

grounds specifically enumerated in Sec.19 . Divorce is claimed

on the residuary ground in Sec.19 emphasised above. 13. The claim for nullity is staked by the appellant on the

ground that his consent for marriage was obtained by fraud. This

plea is founded on the factual allegation that his wife/the

respondent was pregnant on the date of marriage. The first

question to be considered is whether the facts, if proved, would Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 8 :- justify the grant of a decree for nullity under Sec.19 . 14. It will be apposite to refer to Sec.12(1)(d) of the Hindu

Marriage Act and Sec.25(2) of the Special Marriage Act which we

extract below: 15. A specific statutory provision entitling a husband for a

decree for nullity of marriage on the ground that his wife was

pregnant through another on the date of marriage is

significantly absent in the Divorce Act . Though specific

provisions have been made in Sec.12(1)(d) of the Hindu Marriage

Act and Sec.25(2) of the Special Marriage Act incorporating such

a ground for declaration of nullity of marriage, such a provision

is significantly absent even today under the Divorce Act . By

subsequent amendment also, such a stipulation has not been

specifically incorporated. This obliges the appellant now to fall

back on the residuary saving clause in Sec.19 to claim a decree

for declaration of nullity of marriage. 16. Our attention has been drawn to the decision in D.M.

Raju v. S. Janaki (AIR 1974 Mysore 61). 17. Sec.7 of the Divorce Act stands repealed now and

therefore the fact that the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1937 in

England subsequently recognizes and concedes the right of a Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 10 :- husband for a declaration of nullity on that ground is of no

significance. Divorce can be granted on the ground raised in

this petition only if this Court is convinced that the consent of the

appellant for marriage was vitiated because of fraud. 18. That takes us to the question as to what is fraud in

matrimonial law? It is pointed out to this Court that even

accepting the entire case of the appellant as gospel truth the

respondent was not pregnant on the date of betrothal i.e, 5/5/03

Consent for marriage was given on that day and on that day even

going by the version of the appellant, the respondent was not

pregnant. There is nothing to show that the respondent was

aware of the fact that she was pregnant on the date of betrothal

or on the date of marriage. In these circumstances, there can be

no element of fraud. Reliance is placed on the definition of

"fraud" in other Statutes to contend that unless the respondent

were actually aware of the fact that she was pregnant, she cannot

be held to be guilty of any fraudulent misrepresentation or

fraudulent suppression of facts. 19. This evidently must have been the reason why under Sec.12 of the Hindu Marriage Act and Sec.25 of the Special Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 11 :- Marriage Act , a separate ground was recognized entitling the

husband for a declaration of nullity of marriage. Because of

such provisions in the said Statutes, it is not necessary under

those Statutes for the husbands in similar circumstances to prove

fraud vitiating their consent to marriage. In the absence of such

a provision in the Divorce Act , strict proof of fraud vitiating

matrimonial consent has to be insisted. If the respondent herself

did not know that she was pregnant, there can be no valid

contention of fraud vitiating consent, submits the learned counsel

for the respondent. 20. We have rendered our anxious consideration to this

contention. It is perhaps unfortunate that the mandate of Art.44 of the Constitution for a uniform civil code for the polity has not

been translated into the tangible reality even in this 7th decade

after the adoption of the Constitution. In a secular democratic

republic, in respect of most citizens religion is nothing but an

accident of birth. There is no choice for the individual.

Discrimination on the grounds of divorce merely because of such

accident of birth for which the citizen is not responsible is

certainly unjust and constitutionally unacceptable. In this Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 12 :- context, we note that the mandate under Part IV of the

Constitution is to all instrumentalities of the State and the

adjudicator/interpreter exercising sovereign functions is no

exception to that mandate. Wherever there is elbow room for an

adjudicator/interpreter, he must seize the opportunity readily to

put into reality the mandate of Art.44 of the Constitution.

Interpretationally it is certainly permissible to bring in uniform

provisions in personal laws at least in certain areas. So

reckoned, we deem it absolutely permissible to understand the

residuary stipulation in Sec.19 to permit a declaration of nullity

on the ground that the consent for marriage was vitiated - for the

reason that the wife was pregnant through any other on the date

of marriage. The proof of that crucial fact, in the absence of

pleading and proof that the husband had consciously acceded to

that situation, can certainly be reckoned as sufficient to entitle a

husband for a decree for declaration of nullity. In the absence of

such explanation, on proof of such pregnancy, fraud for the

purpose of Sec.19 can safely be held to be established. 21. It is true that fornication (pre-marital sexual/physical

relationship) may by itself not amount to fraud in matrimonial Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 13 :- law to justify a claim for declaration of nullity of marriage. If

that be so, the mere fact that a wife in such pre-marital sexual

intercourse had become pregnant, even without her being aware

of the same, cannot operate as a plank for declaration of nullity

for the reason that the consent of the husband to such marriage

was vitiated, it is suggested. 'Fraud' in law must take in moral

contumaciousness or depravity. Wilful representation of falsity

or suppression of truth must be shown to exist. If fornication is

not a ground, how can unanticipated conception without even

awareness of that fact expose the wife to the charge of fraud?

How can such a wife be held to be guilty of fraud, it is queried.

The argument sounds impressive at the first blush; but cannot

certainly stand closer scrutiny. We will assume the worst. Pre-

marital sexual intercourse may be common or may not be

uncommon in the modern context. That may not by itself be a

ground to vitiate a marriage on the ground of fraud. Virginity is

not insisted by law for either spouse as one of the requisites of a

valid first marriage. But accepting all this, we are unable to

agree that the fact of pregnancy through any other on the date of

marriage ipso facto will not entitle the husband for a declaration Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 14 :- of nullity. Societal realities have got to be accepted. A husband,

in the absence of his conscious acceptance, cannot be compelled

to enter matrimony with the burden of a foetus growing in the

womb of his wife through another, conceived prior to the

marriage. It is easy for law to assume that this constitutes fraud

in matrimonial law. It is not necessary to insist on proof that the

wife was aware of such pregnancy on the date of marriage. At

least the burden is on her, it can safely be assumed, to ensure

and satisfy herself that she is not pregnant through any other on

the date of marriage. If she enters matrimony without verifying

and confirming that she was not pregnant through any other on

the date of marriage, that can itself be safely reckoned as an act

of fraud constituting a ground vitiating the consent of the

husband in marriage. 22. The definition of 'fraud' under Sec.17 of the Indian

Contract Act need be mechanically and blindly be imported into

matrimonial law. Any wife, who has had premarital sex and who

has got impregnated in fact, whether to her confirmed

knowledge or not, and who enters matrimony without confirming

that she is not pregnant, can, according to us, be safely held to be Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 15 :- guilty of fraud in matrimonial law. The consent given by her

unfortunate husband for such marriage can certainly be held to

be vitiated by fraud, even in the absence of evidence of her

knowledge of her pregnancy. It is absolutely safe to assume

that no husband would have consented to matrimony if he had

even a remote inkling of such pregnancy of his wife through

another on the date of his marriage. His consent for such

marriage can hence safely be held to be vitiated by fraud, unless

there is plea and evidence that he consciously acceded to that

situation. 23. Such an interpretation, we are satisfied, would bring in

uniformity in the provisions relating to declaration of nullity of

marriage under the Hindu marriage Act, Special marriage Act

and the Divorce Act . Such interpretation, we have no hesitation

has got to be preferred, consistent with the mandate of Art.44 of

the Constitution. 24. We find no merit in the contention that on the date of

engagement/betrothal the wife had not admittedly conceived.

Consent for matrimony contemplated under Sec.19 is certainly

not the consent at the time of betrothal. It refers evidently to the Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 16 :- consent on the date of marriage. That the wife may have

become pregnant after the date of betrothal; but before the date

of marriage, even without her own awareness of the fact of such

pregnancy cannot certainly be reckoned as a ground defeating

the claim for nullity under Sec.19 of the Divorce Act. This

contention cannot, in these circumstances, be accepted. To

avoid any misgiving, we make it clear that the wife/respondent

has not raised such a specific contention. She has no contention

that she had become pregnant after betrothal but before

marriage. In our anxiety to understand the law correctly,

questions were raised and the learned counsel and the Amicus

Curiae advanced arguments on this aspect of law. 25. We now proceed to consider the next disputed question

raised whether the presumption of legitimacy under Sec.112 of

the Evidence Act can or cannot be invoked while deciding a claim

for nullity on the ground that the wife was pregnant through any

other on the date of marriage. 26. The contention raised, which contention appears to have

been accepted by the court below, is that invoking the

presumption under Sec.112 a conclusive finding on legitimacy Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 17 :- (and paternity) of the child born after marriage can be drawn.

If that be so it defeats the contention that the wife had conceived

through any other on the date of marriage. 27. This question deserves to be considered carefully. We

must first have a look at Sec.112 of the Evidence Act. We

extract the same below: (emphasis supplied) 28. There is a contention raised initially that the Family

Court need not consider itself to be bound by Sec.112 of the Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 18 :- Evidence Act . We shall first of all consider that contention. This

contention is raised with the help of Sec.14 of the Family Courts

Act. We extract Sec.14 below: (emphasis supplied) 29. It is true that under Sec.14 certain materials can be

permitted to be received in evidence by the Family Court whether

the same would be relevant and admissible or not, under the Indian Evidence Act . The general and sweeping language used

in Sec.14 prompts the counsel to contend that the Family Court

is not bound by and can even ignore Sec.112. We are unable to

agree. Sec.112 of the Evidence Act incorporates a presumption

which is part of the substantive law of this country. The enabling Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 19 :- provision under Sec.14 of the Family Courts Act which permits

the Family Court, considering the nature of the mission/task

before it, to ignore the procedural stipulations and avoid

unnecessary bottlenecks cannot, according to us, certainly be

construed as a permission or licence to ignore a fundamental

substantive statutory stipulation like the one in Sec.112 of the

Evidence Act. We are, in these circumstances, unable to accept

that the Family Courts, in view of the provisions of Sec.14 can

consider themselves to be not bound by Sec.112 of the Evidence

Act. If that be so, it would be death knell of the said statutory

stipulation. We fail to understand which court can be held to be

bound by Sec.112 if the Family Courts were to be held to be not

bound by the said statutory provision. The very purpose of the

provision would be frustrated. It is before the Family Court that

the aid of the presumption would be most necessary. 30. Notwithstanding the wide sweep of the language used

in Sec.14 , we reject the contention raised that the Family Courts

need not consider themselves to be bound by Sec.112.

Considering the purpose, object and scheme of the Family Courts

Act , notwithstanding the sweeping semantics employed in Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 20 :- Sec.14 , we take the view that the stipulation is merely procedural

and cannot permit the Family Courts to ignore fundamental and

basic stipulations of law which are substantive in nature. This

contention raised must hence fail. 31. Sec.112 mandates that there must be a valid marriage.

The section expressly stipulates so. Binding precedents are

galore about the basis of the presumption under Sec.112. The

provision obviously has its foundation on public policy. Law leans

in favour of the presumption of legitimacy of a child born in

lawful wed-lock. This principle finds statutory recognition in Sec.112 of the Evidence Act. The presumption is conclusive,

unless it is rebutted in the only manner contemplated in the

section. This is based on the principle "that he is the father

whom the nuptials show to be so or the marriage indicates".

This presumption is the foundation of every man's birth and

status. It is a sensible presumption of law and is the pivot on

which rests the entire fabric of the society. 32. It is fundamental and axiomatic that valid marriage

must be proved before the presumption under Sec.112 can be

invoked. Proof of valid marriage is sine qua non for invocation of Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 21 :- the presumption under Sec.112. Whatever the period of their

cohabitation, however loyal and committed the partners may be

to each other and however convincing the evidence of their

faithful cohabitation may be, the presumption under Sec.112

cannot be invoked or drawn unless solemnization of valid

marriage is proved. Proof of valid marriage is the bedrock on

which the presumption under Sec.112 is built. 33. Such a presumption cannot obviously have any role or

play before the validity of the marriage is established. To

establish the validity of such a marriage, the presumption under

Sec.112 cannot obviously be invoked. In a case like the instant

one where the validity of the marriage is assailed on the ground

that the wife was pregnant through another on the date of

marriage, this presumption cannot have any play at all. It would

be a classic instance of putting the cart before the horse, if this

presumption were to be invoked for ascertaining the validity of

the marriage itself. We have, in these circumstances, no

hesitation to agree with the learned counsel for the appellant

that the presumption under Sec.112 cannot be invoked in a case

where the very validity of the marriage is in question. Only after Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 22 :- the validity of the marriage is considered and decided, the

presumption under Sec.112 can be invoked. To decide whether

the marriage is valid or not, the presumption under Sec.112

cannot obviously be invoked. 34. It is, of course, true that a decision on the validity of

marriage on this ground (i.e, pregnancy through another on the

date of the marriage) may have a reflection on the legitimacy of

the child born. But that, according to us, is not a valid reason to

justify invocation of the presumption under Sec.112 in

proceedings where validity of the marriage is impugned on the

ground that the wife was pregnant through another on the date

of the marriage. The question of responsibility for the pregnancy

will certainly have to be ascertained otherwise - without the aid

of the presumption under Sec.112. We find certain observations

of the Supreme Court on this aspect which justify our conclusion. In Mahendra v. Sushila (AIR 1965 Supreme Court 364) the

Supreme Court did have an occasion to consider this aspect.

The observations clearly indicate that the presumption under

Sec.112 though it is certain to affect the legitimacy of the child

born, cannot be pressed into service while deciding the validity of Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 23 :- marriage assailed on the ground of Sec.12(1)(d) of the Hindu

Marriage Act. We extract the relevant observations in

paragraph-180: (emphasis supplied) 35. Of course, the Supreme Court had not specifically

declared the law on this aspect; but the observations support

and justify our conclusion that Sec.112 cannot be called in aid by

a wife to support her contention that she was not pregnant or

that she had not already conceived through any other at the time Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 24 :- of marriage. Whether the wife was pregnant on the date of the

marriage and through whom, will certainly have to be considered

on other factual inputs available and cannot certainly be decided

on the basis of the conclusive presumption under Sec.112 of the

Evidence Act which we repeat comes into play only after a valid

marriage in accordance with law is established. Even if the

pregnancy got aborted, the ground for declaration of nullity

under Sec.12(1)(d) of the Hindu Marriage Act. Sec.25(2) of the

Special Marriage Act and Sec.19 of the Divorce Act would still

survive. The question cannot hence be considered in the light

of the presumption of legitimacy under Sec.112 . The mere fact

that the finding regarding pregnancy on the date of marriage

may have an impact on the legitimacy (including paternity) of

the child born cannot permit us to import the conclusive

presumption under Sec.112 into such adjudication regarding

validity of marriage. 36. In this context we take note of the decision of a learned

single Judge of this Court on this very question. In P.V. Sabu v.

Mariakutty (AIR 1998 Kerala 86), Hon'ble Justice C.S. Rajan

had considered this specific plea and had held thus in paragraph- Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 25 :- 18 which we extract below: (emphasis supplied) 37. We are in complete agreement with the learned Judge

on the above observations in paragraph-18. We have

reservations to accept the opinion later in the said paragraph

that access and non-access after the marriage alone is relevant

under Sec.112 of the Evidence Act. We shall consider that

aspect later. 38. The above discussions lead us to the following firm Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 26 :- conclusions of law. 39. The learned counsel for the appellant submits that even

assuming that Section 112 of the Evidence Act can be made use

of by the respondent, the respondent is not entitled to succeed in

persuading the court to draw any conclusive presumption

regarding the paternity of the child. Various contentions are

raised. Though the conclusions reached in paragraph-38 is

sufficient for the purpose of adjudication of the lis in this appeal,

we deem it appropriate to consider the contention raised. 40. First of all it is contended that Section 112 covers only

legitimacy and not paternity. It is next (secondly) contended that Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 28 :- the date on which the child would have been begotten has to be

ascertained. When such date of conception ascertained falls

prior to the date of the marriage, the presumption under Section

112 will not be available to the respondent even in a case where

valid marriage has taken place. It is further (thirdly) contended

that in any view of the matter, in view of the D.N.A test results it

can be concluded beyond the trace of any doubt that there was

no possibility of access between the appellant and the respondent

on the date when the child could have been begotten. 41. We shall now proceed to consider these three

contentions raised by the appellant, though we remind ourselves

and are conscious that the exercise is academic and not strictly

necessary to resolve the controversy specifically raised. 42. We have considered the question whether the

presumption under Sec.112 of the Evidence Act can be held to be

limited to legitimacy of the child born and whether it can be held

that the conclusive presumption applies only to legitimacy and

not to paternity of the child. The contention appears to be

interesting and crucially relevant. When Sec.112 was enacted by

the legislature in 1872, science and technology had not Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 29 :- developed to any significant extent. Authentic expert scientific

evidence as to whether a person is the biological father of the

offspring could not then be procured. However, with the

advancements in the field of science and technology it is today

possible to ascertain paternity authentically by indisputable

scientific evidence. In this context the question arises whether

a distinction can be drawn between legitimacy and paternity in

the operation of Sec.112 . We certainly consider the question to

be very interesting. The presumption, the heading of the section

shows is only regarding legitimacy. The semantics employed by

the legislature also suggests that the presumption specifically is

only regarding legitimacy. Is it possible to exclude paternity

from the concept of legitimacy? What would remain and be left

in the concept of legitimacy if we were to exclude paternity from

the same? It is possible to take the view that legitimacy is

permitted to be presumed for certain legal consequences that

must follow. In that view of the matter paternity can be

distinguished from legitimacy. It is not theoretically impossible

for a presumed "legitimate" father to be not the biological father.

Legitimacy might bring in legal consequences and obligations. Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 30 :- When paternity can be ascertained authentically it would be

perfectly permissible, nay laudable, to distinguish between

legitimacy and paternity. In most cases legitimacy of a child

must include the concept of paternity also. But the two concepts - legitimacy and paternity, do not certainly cover the same field

entirely. If such a view were taken, we do note that the

presumption of legitimacy can certainly exist for certain purposes

in the interest of the offspring, excluding the traumatic

unjustified presumption regarding paternity against the man

where paternity is contra indicated convincingly by scientific

evidence. Such an interpretation, we feel, can certainly

harmonise the interests of a child regarding whose legitimacy Sec.112 can be called in aid and at the same time avoid the

trauma of an unfavourable finding regarding paternity when such

finding is factually oppressive and unjust. This question, it

appears to us, is only academic in this case and it is unnecessary

to record any final conclusion on that question. We need only

observe that it appears to be theoretically possible to distinguish

between legitimacy and paternity and thereby render Sec.112 more congruent to the needs of a knowledge society where Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 31 :- authentic ascertainment of paternity is factually possible by

scientific inputs without at the same time compromising on the

interests of a child born in matrimony. We leave the question

there accepting that there is a clear distinction possible under Sec.112 of the Evidence Act between legitimacy and paternity.

We do take note of the observations on this aspect by a learned

single Judge of the Delhi High Court --Sri. Justice Ravindra Bhat,

in paragraphs-26 and 27 in Rohit Shekhar v. Narayan Dutt

Tiwari and Anopther (MANU/DE/3701/2010 ). 43. The next aspect to be considered is about the

importance of the expression "at any time when the child could

have been begotten". Sec.112 incorporates a conclusive

presumption regarding legitimacy of the offspring if such child is

born during the continuance of a valid marriage between the

mother of the child and any person. The period during which the

presumption operates is the entire period during continuance of

a valid marriage and 280 days after its dissolution, the mother

remaining unmarried. If the child is born during the specified

period, the presumption operates. If the mother is married to

another immediately after the dissolution of marriage and a child Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 32 :- is born after such remarriage, the child will be presumed to be

the child of the subsequent husband unless it is shown that the

parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time

when the child could have been begotten. 44. What perhaps deserves to be noted is that there is no

exclusion of any initial period immediately following the

marriage to justify invocation of the presumption under Sec.112 .

Even if the child is born on the very next day after the marriage, Sec.112 operates with vigour and the presumption of legitimacy

can be avoided only by proof of non-access. We do not agree with

the learned Judge who in P.V. Sabu (supra) observed that access

after matrimony alone is relevant under Sec.112 . What we

intend to note is that it is important to ascertain the date on

which the child could have been begotten for a proper operation

of Sec.112 of the Evidence Act. In a given case if it is shown that

the child was begotten on a day prior to marriage and there is no

possibility of sexual access between the man and woman prior to

marriage, as admitted in this case, the conclusive presumption

cannot be invoked. Otherwise, the presumption does certainly

operate. The legislature evidently appears to have chosen not Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 33 :- to exclude any minimum period immediately after the marriage

advisedly. That appears to be done consciously to protect the

interests of the children conceived in pre-marital sexual

intercourse of parents who enter formal matrimony subsequently

with awareness of pre-marital conception. We need only observe

that the evidence of access will very strictly be insisted by any

prudent mind for the pre-marriage period, in a case where the

date of conception is proved to be prior to the date of marriage. 45. When can it be said that the child was begotten? It is

certainly not the date of marriage. It is certainly not the date of

delivery. It is the date on which the sperm from the father

should have met the ovum of the mother. The date of fertilization

of the ovum is certainly the date on which the child could have

been begotten. The date of successful sexual intercourse which

led to fertilization is certainly the date on which the child can be

said to have been begotten for the purpose of Sec.112 . All we

intend to note now is that even in a case where the presumption

under Sec.112 operates, there is burden on the court to ascertain

the date on which the child in question could have been begotten.

That date has to be ascertained with the help of all relevant Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 34 :- inputs. All relevant evidence - direct, indirect, circumstantial,

scientific and expert testimony, will all have to be looked into to

ascertain the date on which the child could have been begotten.

It is only then that it can be ascertained whether there was

access or non-access of the man and the woman to each other on

the said date/period. 46. Access cannot be decided in a vacuum. Access on the

date when the child could have been begotten has to be

ascertained. Science and technology now permits the courts to

precisely ascertain the date on which the fertilization of the

sperm and ovum could have taken place. It is perfectly

permissible even in a case where the presumption under Sec.112 is sought to be drawn for the court to consider all evidence to

ascertain the date on which the child in question could have been

begotten. The age of the foetus can be authentically ascertained

today with the help of scientific inputs. It is not necessary any

more to rely merely on the oral evidence of the mother (or any

one else) about the date of the LMP to ascertain the gestational

age of the foetus. . The period/date on which the child was

begotten can be authentically and specifically ascertained. We Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 35 :- repeat that access or non-access has to be considered with

specific reference to the time when the child could have been

begotten. The precise ascertainment of the date when the child

could have been begotten is crucial in a case like the instant one.

In this case there is no case that there was any sexual

intercourse between the spouses prior to their marriage. That is

the admitted case. If the child were begotten prior to the date

of marriage, non-access is admitted. Therefore even if Sec.112 were held to be applicable, if a safe finding is possible that the

child was begotten prior to marriage, the presumption cannot be

drawn in favour of legitimacy or paternity. That would be our

answer to the second contention raised in law. 47. That takes us to the last contention. The larger question

is raised as to what is "access". At a time when science and

technology had not developed as to enable courts to ascertain

scientifically (and not on the basis of oral evidence) whether the

child was born on account of the sexual intercourse between a

man and his wife, the expression "access" was used in Sec.112 of

the Evidence Act. "Access" in Sec.112 as understood hitherto is

certainly "the possibility of and the opportunity for sexual Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 36 :- intercourse between the man and woman". No better and

acceptable evidence on that aspect could be authentically

secured in yester years and hence access in Sec.112 was always

understood to mean the opportunity for or the possibility of

sexual intercourse between the spouses. But should the

expression "access" be understood in such vague, general and

non-specific terms any more, is a question which courts will have

to consider seriously. By access what is really meant is the

accessibility of the ovum for the sperm. That is the only way to

understand the expression "access" in a modern knowledge

society where authentic ascertainment as to whether sperm from

a man had caused fertilization of the ovum of the woman is

scientifically possible. 48. In the age of scientific ignorance - before the D.N.A

test to authentically ascertain biological parentage came in

handy, the expression `access' in Section 112 may have been

understood as the physical proximity of the spouses or the

opportunity for them to have sexual intercourse. But when

science and technology have taken strides forward and permit

courts now to precisely ascertain and conclude authentically Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 37 :- whether the sperm from the man did really have access to the

ovum of the woman, the expression `access' in Section 112 can

certainly be understood in a different level and dimension. The

Supreme Court has accepted in many cases that "the result of a

genuine D.N.A test is said to be scientifically accurate". If such

D.N.A test can show authentically that there was no possibility

scientifically of the sperm from the man having accessed the

ovum of the woman, it can certainly be held to be evidence of non

access contemplated under Section 112 . The D.N.A test result

can certainly be accepted as evidence of access or non access of

the man to the woman, relevant to the context. It is not

necessary hence to squander the advantage of such authentic

scientific expert evidence even while considering the play of Section 112 of the Evidence Act. "To develop scientific temper" The possibility of and the opportunity to understand the

expression "access" in Section 112 of the Evidence Act in the

light of the modern scientific developments has not been

considered in earlier binding precedents which understood the

said expression `access' to mean mere possibility or opportunity

of the spouses to have sexual intercourse. We extract below the

specific observations in para.10 of Kamti Devi (supra): Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 39 :- 49. We have extracted the above passage only to convince

ourselves that in spite of the said observations it is still possible Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 40 :- now, after a decade, to consider afresh the question whether

"access" in Section 112 can be understood in a more specific

sense. It is possible in the light of the modern scientific

developments to understand the expression "access" in Section

112 as possibility of access of the sperm to the ovum. This

question has not been considered by the Supreme Court. The

observations in Kamti Devi (supra), according to us, does not

foreclose such an approach by this Court even though such an

approach has not been actually made by the Supreme Court in

that case . That case was decided on other grounds as the

Supreme Court found that there was sufficient evidence

otherwise in that case to prove that the husband had no

opportunity whatsoever to have liaison with the mother of the

child. In that view the observations can be said to be only obiter. 50. The learned counsel for the appellant then points out

the injustice and tyranny that would result if a literal

interpretation of the word `access' consistent with the

interpretation followed in earlier days (when the advantage of

science and technology were not available) were to be

mechanically and rigidly followed by courts in the present times. Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 41 :- The learned counsel points out that after the decision in Maneka

Gandhi V. Union of India [(1978) S.C 597] every law has to be

fair, just and reasonable and should not be arbitrary, capricious,

fanciful or oppressive. An interpretation which leads to the

provision being fair, reasonable and just will have to be

preferred and followed. If the interpretation would render the

provision of law to be arbitrary, fanciful, capricious and

oppressive, the vice of unconstitutionality under Articles 14 and 21 may be attracted. We have no hesitation to agree that in the

post Maneka Gandhi (supra) era, Section 112 must receive such

a progressive interpretation relevant to the times. Any

interpretation which should lead to the tyranny of a conclusive

presumption contrary to proved facts will certainly have to be

avoided and the other can be preferred. Courts must certainly

prefer to come to just conclusions on the basis of facts rather

than succumb to conclusive legal presumptions of law. When the

fact situation offers a legitimate option for the courts, we have no

hesitation to agree that such a construction has to be followed

which will cater to the ends of justice. 51. We find ourselves faced with similar dilemma as Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 42 :- Justice Ormrod in [(1966) 1 All England Law Reports 356] cited

by Sri C.S.Dias, the learned Amicus Curiae. We extract the same

below: 52. We do also feel that the first concern of any court must

certainly be to avoid injustice being done on the basis of a legal

presumption when justice can be done on the basis of fact. No

court should consider itself a prisoner to the language of a

statutory provision or precedents of a bygone era when

interpretation consistent with the current legally cognizable Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 43 :- inputs and realities can help the court to render justice, to the

satisfaction of the judicial conscience. We are hence tempted not

to consider ourselves prisoners to the interpretation of Section

112 which was accepted in the yester years and feel persuaded to

understand the expression `access' in a more meaningful,

effective, vibrant and contextually relevant manner to enable the

courts to do justice. 53. The presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence

Act must certainly be shivering in its shoes. With the advent of

science and technology when biological paternity can be

ascertained by authentic scientific data, it would be idle to

presume paternity which is contrary to the facts proved. It is of

course for the legislature to consider whether the presumption

under Section 112 ought to be changed to the `may presume' or

`shall presume' variety, rather than permit the same to be

continued as a conclusive presumption under Section 4 of the

Evidence Act. But it is not necessary for the courts/interpretors

to wait till the day that the legislature in a vast country like India

intervenes to modify, alter and amend the statutory provision.

The interpretor has enough elbow room within the law to do Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 44 :- justice. It is hence that we think that a realistic understanding of

the expression `access' would help courts to dispense better

quality justice. Access, we agree, must be reckoned as the

possibility/opportunity of the sperm to access the ovum and not

merely physical proximity of the spouses or their mere

opportunity to have sexual intercourse. Such an interpretation

might have been sufficient to do justice in the bygone era. But in

the present day of scientific and technological advancement,

access can be understood more specifically to mean access of the

sperm to the ovum. If such access is contra indicated

conclusively by the D.N.A test, that can certainly be reckoned as

evidence of non access which will help the husband to walk out of

the Padmavyuha of Section 112 through the only exit door of non

access recognised under Section 112 . Not to understand Section

112 in that dynamic manner would, according to us, be certainly

an anachronism. Interpretation has to keep pace with modern

scientific and technological advancement and we do, in these

circumstances, feel that the scope of the expression "access" in Section 112 can, in the present day context, be further

realistically limited. "Access" in Section 112 of the Evidence Act Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 45 :- can hereafter be safely understood as the possibility of access of

the sperm of the man to the ovum of the woman and DNA test

result which shows authentically that the sperm of the man did

not actually access the ovum of the woman can be admitted as

evidence of non access permitted under Section 112 . 54. We have already taken the view that Section 112 is

inapplicable and cannot be called in aid when the precise

question to be decided is the validity of the marriage - challenged

on the ground that the wife was pregnant through another on the

date of marriage. In that view of the matter, it is unnecessary to

enter any specific findings on the subsequent questions of law

raised. But we feel compellingly persuaded to opine that even if Section 112 were held to be applicable, the following conclusions

are perfectly possible now. 55. We shall now proceed to consider the factual

controversies in the present case and attempt to resolve them

primarily in the light of the conclusions of law enumerated in

paragraph-38 above. Betrothal took place on 05.05.2003.

Marriage took place on 17.05.2003. The child was born on

06.01.2004. The expert evidence available clearly suggests that

the child was begotten prior to 17.05.2003, ie. the date of

marriage. That is certainly a possible conclusion. That to us is

the more acceptable conclusion on facts also. We have

considered the oral and documentary evidence including the

evidence of experts under Sec.45 of the Evidence Act. The

foetus was 61 days of gestational age on 26/6/03. That takes

us back to 27/4/03. To that a maximum of 14 days have to be

added. To that provision is made for possible inexactitude in

computation. Even after providing for all that it is opined by

P.W.2 that sexual intercourse must have taken place prior to

17/5/03 (i.e., the date of the marriage) - at any rate, prior

11/5/03. P.W.4 another expert in Gynaecology also certified that

the child must have been conceived prior to 17/5/03. P.W.5 who

had attended on the respondent during the initial days of Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 49 :- pregnancy also asserted that the child must have been conceived

before 8/5/03, at any rate, prior to 10/5/03. The opinion of R.W.2

also confirms that fertilisation must have taken place on 11/5/03.

To this he adds that 7 days either side can be included to make

up the error in ascertainment of the gestational age by USG.

That opinion is not shown to be authentic. When considered in

the light of Exts.X1 and X2 we prefer to accept the opinion of

P.Ws.2, 4 and 5 over the opinion of R.W.2. We conclude that the

child must have been begotten/conceived prior to 17/5/03 during

which period there was no possibility admittedly of conception

through the appellant. The DNA test results confirm that the

appellant is not the biological father of the child born. The

presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act has already

been held to be not available in favour of the respondent to help

the court for resolving the controversy in this case. The validity

of the marriage is in question. To resolve that controversy, as we

have already held, Section 112 cannot be called in aid. The

question has to be decided without the aid of the presumption

under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Not only the evidence of

non access, any other admissible and acceptable data can be Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 50 :- made use of - including DNA test results, by the adjudicator to

ascertain whether the appellant is responsible for the pregnancy. 56. We have authentic data of the D.N.A test. Exts.X1 and

X2 do both indicate that the appellant is not the biological father

of the child born to the respondent. The court had sent the

parties for such an expert examination. Ext.X1 turned out to be

against the respondent and at the instance of the respondent,

this Court had directed that a further test be conducted. Ext.X2

also confirms that the appellant is not the biological father of the

child born. In the absence of the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act, there is nothing to suggest the responsibility

of the appellant for the conception and pregnancy. Exts.X1 and

X2 must in the circumstances clinch the issue. There is no

contention or possibility of conception of the pregnancy after the

respondent's marriage with the appellant on account of physical

relationship with any other. That again confirms that the

pregnancy/conception must have been prior to the date of

marriage. There is no contention that the marriage was valid and

the extra marital sexual relationship after marriage may/could

have caused the pregnancy. Such a weird possibility can be Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 51 :- safely ruled out. We do, in these circumstances, take the view

that the respondent was pregnant on the date of the marriage

and that the appellant was not responsible for such pregnancy.

The appellant, we hold on the basis of Exts.X1 and X2, is not the

biological father of the child so begotten. His consent for

marriage is, we hold, vitiated on the ground of fraud. The

marriage deserves to be declared null and void. 57. Even assuming that Section 112 of the Evidence Act is

applicable, the available evidence indicates that the fertilisation

was prior to the date of marriage. Exts.X1 and X2 further help

this Court to conclude that there was non access between the

spouses on the date when the fertilisation of the ovum took place.

This is indicated conclusively by the D.N.A test reports which

show that the appellant is not the biological father of the child. 58. The argument that the conduct of the wife must

suggest convincingly that she was not pregnant through any

other on the date of marriage cannot be accepted. The mere fact

that she had submitted herself to D.N.A test initially and had

insisted to get the D.N.A test repeated are not, according to us,

sufficient to wish away the result of such D.N.A tests. May be, Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 52 :- the respondent was unaware of the conclusiveness of the test and

may have offered to get such test conducted and repeated in the

hope that such test results would not go conclusively against her.

Even otherwise she may have been obliged to present a picture of

injured innocence and offer herself for the test in an obvious bid

to highlight the picture of injured innocence. This

circumstance, strenuously canvassed, is not sufficient for us to

ignore the D.N.A test results. 59. We do, in these circumstances, come to the conclusion

that the impugned order warrants interference. We are

convinced that the respondent was pregnant on the date of her

marriage with the appellant and that the appellant was not

responsible for such pregnancy. The consent of the appellant for

the marriage is thus vitiated by fraud, he having been kept in the

dark about such pregnancy and it being evident beyond the pale

of controversy that he would not have consented to such

marriage if he had knowledge of such pregnancy. We are

satisfied that this appeal deserves to be allowed and a decree for

declaration of nullity under Section 19 deserves to be granted. Mat. Appeal Nos.75 of 2008 & 31 of 2010 -: 53 :- 60. In the result: between the appellant and the respondent solemnised on 17/5/03

at St. Mary's Ferona Church, Maruthonkara, to be null and void; d) The parties are directed to suffer their respective

cost. Mat.Appeal No.31 of 2010: