SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: some question for chennai and sathaya bama collage
DATE: 2023-07-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15day2g/some_question_for_chennai_and_sathaya_bama_collage/

--- POST TEXT ---

hey people of india i wanted to ask a little about your country because in this agust I'm planning to do student exchange to chennai for the collage is sathyabama university. From the looks of it the town looks really modern and I really love it same as sathyabama. But I do have few concern because again this is my first time got to another countryso I have some question. 

first avoiding scam? Im sorry to say this but a lot my family warn me that India have a lot scammer and I wanted to know what is the most often scam is happening in chennai and also India as a whole 

second is there any recommendation mosque close to sathyabama? or maybe a Islam community that i can get in contact in chennai, because I'm Islam and i heard a lot of kind bad thing in India about Islam, make me worried about doing prayer especially Friday prayer. 

third where to get sim card?, hows the internet in India? and is there a good internet cafe in chennai?, I'm major in IT and it will need me to get internet access to do my study, i heard you could get a sim card in airport? but I don't know its true or not, but I also heard that getting a simcard is not easy as a foreign there. And also hows the internet? is fast is slow or its just a normal internet? to benchmark it do you guys watch youtube in 720p? or 480p? or lower usually?. Because I also wanted to play street fighter,tekken, dota and valorant and that need some stable internet connection, that's why I also ask some internetcafe that maybe I can also come visit to play there. 

fourth hows sathyabama environment? and class? what I mean by this I wanted to ask hows the student around there? are there friendly? roudy? or maybe shy?. Because I'm kind worried to get bullied because I'm the odd one out. And how the class in that university? is really hard? do they gave so impossible project or assignment? because I'm mainly using english so I'm might get disivantage in class and also I'm kind of not smart of guy so I don't wanted to fail any class ( any tip to pass the class is permitted)

&amp;#x200B;

fifth any recommend halal food? and also where to buy them? because I'm Islam there's some food that I cant eat like pork,dog, and snail so do you guys have any suggestion food that doesn't contain that? and also wheres is in chennai to buy food in general? 

Im sorry if I'm asking a lot I just to know what I'm going to face when I made there and yea thanks for your attention