The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has barred former IIFL Securities Director Sanjiv Bhasin and 11 others from participating in the securities market over their alleged involvement in stock manipulation. The action follows a six-month-long investigation during which the regulator conducted multiple search and seizure operations and gathered various forms of evidence.

In an ex-parte interim order, SEBI directed the 12 entities to disgorge Rs 11.37 crore, allegedly earned through fraudulent transactions.

SEBI received three complaints against Bhasin, accusing him of manipulating stock prices. The complaints stated that he would first buy specific securities and then recommend them to the public on news channels like Zee Business and ET Now, as well as through IIFL’s Telegram channel. After the stock price rose due to his recommendations, Bhasin would sell his holdings for a profit.

He allegedly bought securities of Venus Portfolios, Gemini Portfolios, and HB Stockholdings through Jagat Singh and Rajiv Kapoor of RRB Master, a brokerage firm operated by his relatives, Ashish Kapur and Lalit Bhasin.

Due to his large viewership on various media platforms, Bhasin’s recommendations significantly impacted the price and trading volume of the stocks. SEBI noted that Bhasin has 3.21 lakh followers on X, 4.12 lakh subscribers on the YouTube channel Wealth Creation India, and 21,000 followers on LinkedIn. While IIFL Securities was registered as a Research Analyst (RA) and Investment Advisor (IA), Bhasin himself was not individually registered in either capacity.

To initiate the investigation, SEBI conducted a preliminary analysis and obtained court approval. The regulator then examined the following data:

SEBI also found that Bhasin used three mobile numbers, one of which was registered in his wife’s name, to coordinate trades with RRB Master’s dealers via calls and WhatsApp. Accordingly, this communication occurred during the placement of trades for corresponding securities.

Between January and June 2024, SEBI scrutinised Bhasin’s stock recommendations. In one instance, Bhasin appeared on ET Now Swadesh and advised viewers to buy shares of InterGlobe Aviation Limited for long-term investment. However, his WhatsApp chats and call records revealed that he instructed Singh to sell the same stock, held in the Venus account, once the market opened. Singh later shared screenshots of the sale, including the price and volume, with Bhasin.

SEBI concluded that Bhasin’s recommendations were deceptive and aimed at misleading investors. It added that Bhasin deceived investors who considered his recommendations as research-backed or time-oriented, as the advisor made “huge gains at the cost of their investments.”

Besides the disgorgement and restriction from participating in the securities market, SEBI proposed various measures against the perpetrators. The regulator restrained them from associating with any registered intermediaries. It also prescribed penalties under Section 11, Section 11A, Section 15HA, and Section 15EB of the SEBI Act, 1992 . SEBI issued the order to the involved parties and provided them 21 days to file their response and avail a personal hearing in the case.

Depositories and banks have been instructed to block any credits to the demat accounts of the accused. Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) have also been directed to halt the transfer or redemption of any securities, including mutual fund units, held by the individuals.

Finally, SEBI forwarded copies of the order to stock exchanges, depositories, RTAs, and banks to ensure necessary compliance.

In a similar vein, SEBI has previously taken action against six individuals for manipulating stock prices via their Telegram channel. The regulator also remarked that the misuse of social media and technology enables miscreants to bypass the regulatory fence and manipulate the stock market. In 2023, it fined finfluencers (financial influencers) PR Sundar and Baap of Chart Rs 6 crore and Rs 17.2 crore respectively for offering investment advice without proper registration.

With the rise of unsolicited financial advice on social media, the regulator has also implemented additional measures. A plethora of these initiatives involve barring any liaison, whether monetary or overall , between finfluencers and registered market entities. In October 2024, SEBI also proposed that recognised ‘Specified Digital Platforms’ (SDPs) must undertake preventive and pre-emptive measures to curb illegal activity. Later, in March 2025, the regulator tightened its vigil over social media ads, mandating registered intermediaries to use contact details registered on the SEBI Intermediary (SI) portal while signing up on social media platforms.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event