A group of US Senators have introduced a bill recently, titled Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act of 2022, which gives teeth to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to regulate trading of digital commodities. The framework can be looked at as a safeguard for US customers who are currently exposed to markets which are not regulated. You can read the entire draft of the bill here .

“These rules hold digital commodity platforms to the same standards as traditional financial institutions,” read a document summarising the draft of the bill.

The bill would allow the CFTC to regulate two of the most popular cryptocurrencies— Bitcoin and Ethereum— and other crypto assets which are not classified as securities by the Securities and Exchange Commission (American equivalent of the SEBI).

The bill was backed by the following senators:

“One in five Americans have used or traded digital assets— but these markets lack the transparency and accountability that they expect from our financial system. Too often, this puts Americans’ hard-earned money at risk,” Stabenow said in a statement.

Never miss out on important developments in tech policy, whether in India or across the world. Sign up for our morning newsletter , with a “Free Read of the Day”, to experience MediaNama in a whole new way.

Why it matters: The bill is notable because it will provide clear governmental oversight to digital asset commodity markets. The crypto markets have been facing a series of hacks of late leaving investors in a bind who wish to seek recourse.

1/ Really pleased to see the introduction of the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act from @SenStabenow , @JohnBoozman , @CoryBooker , and @SenJohnThune . This bill will ensure the @CFTC has the authority it needs to regulate the digital asset commodity markets.

— Faryar Shirzad 🛡️ (@faryarshirzad) August 3, 2022

Definition: The bill defines digital commodity as “a fungible digital form of personal property that can be possessed and transferred person-to-person without necessary reliance on an intermediary”. The draft also lists the following exclusions to the definition—

The draft, however, steers clear of defining which token constitutes a commodity or a security.

Jurisdiction: One of the key provisions in the bill grants the CFTC “exclusive jurisdiction” over digital commodity trades. The CFTC will be tasked with prohibiting fraud with respect to any digital commodity trade.

Registration: The law mandates that it would be illegal for an entity to conduct business without registration. It is  that any entity acting as a digital commodity platform must register with the CFTC in one of the following categories:

Core Principles: All entities must permit trading only in transactions that are not readily susceptible to manipulation. They must also provide a “competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions that protects the price discovery process” of trading on the platform.

Customer protections: The CFTC has been asked to incorporate customer protection requirements which require disclosure by a digital commodity platform to a customer about the following:

Self-regulation: The law has mandated that everyone from a digital commodity broker, digital commodity dealer, or digital commodity custodian shall be a member of a registered futures association. The CFTC has the power under the law to ask an association to perform the function of registering entities dealing with digital commodities.

Fees charged by CFTC: The CFTC can assess and collect fees from entities to be used for recovering annual costs of the following:

Preparation of reports: The CFTC has been asked to examine the energy consumption and sources of energy used in connection with the creation and transfer of the most widely-traded digital commodities.

1/ Four members of the Senate Agriculture Committee just introduced the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act, the third bill this year making the CFTC primary regulator for crypto spot markets.

It's a good bill overall & confirms a growing consensus for CFTC regulation.

— Jake Chervinsky (@jchervinsky) August 3, 2022

The Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act is not the first bill to be introduced in the US Senate to regulate crypto assets. It comes on the heels of the Responsible Financial Innovation Act which was introduced in June 2022 by US senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Cynthia Lummis which develops a framework to regulate digital assets in the US.

Moreover, the bill by Gillibrand and Lummis also proposes to designate the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with authority to regulate digital asset spot markets. The draft had said that the mandate “aligns well with their [the CFTC’s] current purview over other commodity markets.”

The scope of the Lummis-Gillibrand bill is more expansive than the one proposed by Stablenow. The draft dealt with issues of taxation including a de minimis exclusion of $200, definitions, stablecoins, central bank digital currencies, innovation, among others.

The bill also dealt with customer protections mandating intermediaries to ensure that the “scope of permissible transactions that may be undertaken with customer digital assets is disclosed clearly in a customer agreement.”

It also directs them to acknowledge:

You can read our summary of the bill here .

The Lummis-Gillibrand bill, along with the one by Stablenow, can serve as a blueprint for India’s own law regarding digital assets which is currently under deliberation . There is no clarity on when the bill will be tabled in the Parliament after having been listed twice for introduction.

The government had announced recently that it was working on releasing a consultation paper which covers a wide range of issues thrown up by crypto assets. The paper is likely to reveal the government’s position on crypto assets and how it intends to regulate them. It does suggest that a law might still be a few months away from promulgation.

The path to regulation is littered with treacherous turns as India’s central bank is gunning for a ban . Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently revealed that RBI wants to bring back the ban on cryptocurrencies it had first introduced in 2018 .

Note: The headline was updated on August 8, 12.28 PM for greater clarity

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event