The Delhi Parents Association and the Government School Teachers’ Association have filed a petition in the Delhi High Court demanding that the Delhi government orders to install CCTV cameras in government school classrooms be revoked, arguing that the move violates the right to privacy of the students and teachers, and fails the tests laid down in the Right to Privacy judgement. The petition says that CCTV cameras should only be installed in free, public and vulnerable areas of the school, such as school corridors and playgrounds, without invading the “zone of privacy” students and teachers are entitled to. MediaNama has seen a copy of the petition.

The Delhi government started installing CCTV cameras inside classrooms on July 6, 2019, to enhance the security of students. Under the project, two cameras will be installed in each classroom, and the entire school premises, except loos, will be under surveillance. The live feed will be monitored from a control room. Parents of children will be provided live feeds of classrooms through a mobile app, DGS Live. The CCTV footage is mute, and is available to parents for 15 minutes, thrice a day.

The petition argues that the live feed is a further violation of privacy as it does not take specific consent. Also, harms of live-streaming such as threats of cyber-bullying, child pornography, morphed videos, etc., and their subsequent dissemination on social media and internet have not been considered. The lack of security infrastructure for adequate collection and storage of data is also concerning. Cross-sharing classroom footage with other parents and “inevitably” with unauthorised third persons is unacceptable.

A division bench constituting Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice C. Hari Shankar was to hear the matter [W.P. (C) 2105/2020] on February 25, but the bench did not assemble. The next hearing is on March 30, when a similar petition, Daniel George vs Government of Delhi [WP (C) 7083/2018], will be heard. It is not clear if the two petitions will be heard together. Another writ petition [W.P. (C) 570/2019] was filed in the Supreme Court in 2019 on behalf of female students, but that was dismissed in July 2019.

Read more: Dear Delhi government, CCTV cameras inside classrooms are a bad idea

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event