SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of fake agencies which may ruin your business | how to identify one
DATE: 2021-04-17
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/msmk9b/beware_of_fake_agencies_which_may_ruin_your/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have seen new small businesses / startups who invest in digital marketing (mostly due to corona and stuff) are generally getting ripped off by a lot of agencies .

I am from delhi, i have 4+ experience in SEO.

Now how they rip off you guys! 

 ▶️ They will make u feel that SEO Guarantees your sales and there will be 100% increase in consumption of services you provide. Hence, more sales and make you opt for their services :

They charge alot for services which hardly takes any effort

▶️ They will run audit with free/paid tools and download the automated generated audit.pdf (it is a report with all errors) and send you (total process takes 2 min e.g 'ahref' ) they charge thousands for this to find seo errors which hardly takes 5 mins for any website.

They will promise you 100s or 1000 of visiters weekly/monthly 

▶️ All they do is buy and send cheap fake traffic to your website on diff pages this makes google mark your website as a spam, what happens here you cnt tell if it was real or fake you still pay them in thousands.

They promise growth on social media 

▶️ And they will buy likes, comments, follwers etc for u and u cant tell the difference if its paid or not and yes it comes cheap

These were all general things they did which you could have understand , usually they do blackhat for every service you will ask them for: 

Now how you will identity if its a genuine company or not , geniune companies : 

🔅 They take time to give you a quote depending on your needs and complexity of website, unlike the fake ones which immediately give u a fix price

🔅They wont promise you for results like they will rank u on 1st page of google.

🔅 Double check on small agencies which have 3-4 people and they are offering everything web dev, social media marketing, google ads , seo , etc. Make sure to ask them for a case study and re verify.

🔅 They wont agree with your every demand u dream of for your business , u cant beat Amazon or rank on #1 in a month or 2, ( google says its illegal if someone is promising you that they will rank you on first page ) etc.

🔅 please research u can also opt for freelancers online (upwork,fiverrr)

I was recently contacted by a local seo agency based in janakpuri which had 3 branches nationally 
They were like " website ko rank karwa sakte ho norway me? Black hat bhi chalega owner ko problem nahi hai"

Which translates to - " can you rank a certain website in norway, owner won't mind even if you use blackhat"

And that company has a well reputation in that area idk where all this is going, so i thought of spreading awareness

Thank you for reading till here!
Apologize if i didn't pick the righr subreddit or any mistake :)

Cheers! Feel free to ask anything