1. Rule returnable forthwith. Learned APP waives service of
notice of rule for and on behalf of the respondent-State. 2. The present application is filed under Section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for regular bail in
connection with the FIR being C.R. No.I-11208044202185 of
2020 registered with the Pradyuman Nagar Police Station,
Rajkot City of the offence punishable under Sections 3(1)(1),
3(1)(2), 3(2), 3(4) and 4 of the GUJCTOC Act and Sections 447 , Page 1 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

386, 323, 504, 506(2) and 120(B) of the IPC . 3. Learned advocate Mr. Dhruv Toliya appearing for the
applicant has submitted that the applicant-accused was
arrested on 12.12.2020 and since then he is in jail. Learned
advocate Mr. Toliya has also submitted that the investigation
has already been completed and charge-sheet has also been
filed. It is moreso submitted that the first information report
came to be filed against total eleven persons wherein the
applicant-accused has been shown as accused No.9. Learned
advocate Mr. Toliya further submits that the main accused,
namely, Ejaz @ Akbarbhai @ Hukubha Khiyani, having graver
role than the present applicant-accused, has already been
enlarged on bail by this very Court and, therefore, on the
ground of parity also, the applicant-accused is entitled to be
released on bail. It is also submitted that at the time of
invoking the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act against the
applicant-accused, the investigator has put reliance upon total
twelve offences which have been mentioned in the charge-
sheet papers in a tabular form. It is submitted that the offence
at Serial No.1 was registered in the year 2012 wherein the
applicant-accused has not been named; the second offence
was registered in the year 2015 showing the applicant-accused
as accused No.2; third offence is again in the year 2012 not
naming the applicant-accused; fourth offence was registered in
the year 2018 wherein the applicant-accused has been shown
as accused No.3 and from serial Nos.5 to 12, the name of the
applicant-accused is not there in all those offences. Learned
advocate Mr. Toliya would submit that, out of the twelve
offences, relied upon by the prosecuting agency, two offences Page 2 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

were registered before the enactment of the GUJCTOC Act and
in other offences, the applicant-accused has not been named
in the FIR. Learned advocate Mr. Toliya has further submitted
that subsequently in the affidavit filed by the Investigator at
the time of opposing the bail application before the trial court,
two more offences have been shown against the applicant-
accused registered in the years 2020, however, at that time,
the applicant-accused was in judicial custody. The aforesaid
two offences subsequently relied upon by the investigator has
not been mentioned in the chart shown in the charge-sheet
papers. It is further submitted that all the offences cited by
the investigator in the charge-sheet papers were before the
promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act and that too either in the
nature of personal offence or family dispute, which has been
used as a tool to book the present applicant-accused under the
provisions of the GUJCTOC Act. Learned advocate Mr.Toliya has
submitted that another co-accused of the same FIR, namely,
Rizwan Ismail Dal has also been enlarged on bail by a
Coordinate Bench of this Court on the ground that the offences
relied upon by the prosecuting agency against him are all
before the enactment of the GUJCTOC Act. Under the
circumstances, learned advocate Mr. Toliya for the applicant
prays that the applicant may be enlarged on bail on any
suitable terms and conditions. 4. The learned APP appearing on behalf of the respondent-
State has opposed grant of regular bail looking to the nature
and gravity of the offence. Learned APP submits that the
leader of the gang, namely, Ejaz Tako happens to be the
maternal uncle of the present applicant-accused and the said Page 3 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

gang is indulged in doing illegal activities like extortion of
money, land grabbing, contract killing and economical offences
etc. and they are doing the said illegal activities since long.
Number of cases have been registered against the members of
the said syndicate. It is further submitted that all the accused
persons are in constant touch with each other. For the sake of
argument, assuming for a moment, that the complaint is
registered against ten persons and out of those ten persons, if
some of the members are indulged into continuing unlawful
activity and they fall under the definition of the continuing
unlawful activity and not a single first information report filed
against rest of the accused persons after the promulgation of
the Act, but during the course of investigation, some
incriminating material showing the nexus between the
members of the organized crime syndicate is found out, in that
event, the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act can also be invoked
against those accused persons as an abettor as per the
provisions of Section 2(1)(a) of the Act and despite the said
fact no FIR has been filed against them after promulgation of
the Act. 5. Learned APP has heavily relied upon the decision of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar v.
the State of Maharashtra & Ors , rendered in Criminal Appeal
No.1125 of 2022, and submitted that so far as the controversy
involved in the present case, the aforesaid judgment will hold
the field. Learned APP refers to the provisions of Section 2(1) (a) of the GUJCTOC Act and submits that so far as the act of
'abet' is concerned, any facilitation of commission of
organized crime would amount to abetting the offence of Page 4 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

organized crime. Learned APP further submits that one may be
a principal offender and remaining persons of the syndicate
would be the members of the syndicate but if some offence is
committed by any accused person and someone has merely
conspired and has committed some act of a nature of
conspiracy then that section will be attracted. Learned APP
further submits that thereafter the gravity of the offence also
need to be seen while dealing with the application of bail.
Learned APP further submits that when the Court examines the
term 'continuing unlawful activity', there has to be more than
one offence where the cognizance has been taken. Learned
APP further submits that say for example if there are 10
members in an organized crime syndicate and one is the
leader of the syndicate and others are the members then it is
not prerequisite that against all the 10 members there has to
be more than one offence requires to be registered and
wherein cognizance is being taken by the competent Court.
Learned APP has, at this juncture, relied upon the observations
made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in para 77 and 78 in the case
of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (supra) and submitted that in the
aforesaid case, it has been specifically observed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court that, 'it is settled law that more than
one charge sheet is required to be filed in respect of the
organized crime syndicate and not in respect of each person
who is alleged to be a member of such a syndicate'. 6. Therefore, as per the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
Court in the above referred decision, simply on the basis of
non-registration of the FIR or less number of cases registered
against some of the members of the syndicate after or before Page 5 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

the promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act, those persons cannot be
absolved from the clutches of the provisions of the said Act.
Therefore, considering the above stated factual aspects, this
is a fit case wherein discretionary power of this Court is not
required to be exercised in favour of the applicant-accused. 7. The present application has also been opposed by
learned advocate Mr. Mahesh Poojara appearing for the
original complainant and submitted that the applicant-accused
had granted respite in the form of temporary bail, however, he
jumped the temporary bail and during that period, he has
committed those two offences for which FIRs came to be filed
which were subsequently relied upon by the investigator at the
time of opposing the bail application before the trial court. It is
further submitted that not only that the applicant-accused
himself did not surrender before the jail authority but he was
arrested by the police after a period of nine months and again
sent to the judicial custody. Therefore, the conduct of the
applicant-accused is also required to be seen in the present
case. Thus, considering the role attributed to the applicant-
accused, this is a fit case wherein discretionary power of this
Court is not required to be exercised in favour of the applicant-
accused. 8. I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf
of the respective parties and perused the papers of the
investigation and considered the allegations levelled against
the applicant and the role played by the applicant. 9. Before adverting to the rival submissions, I would like to
refer to the relevant provisions of the GUJCTOC Act. Sections
2(1)(a) provides as under: and (iii)the rendering of any assistance, whether financial
 or otherwise, to the organised crime syndicate for
 committing an offence under this Act;" 10. Sections 2(1)(c) provides as under: 11. Sections 2(1)(e) provides as under: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined 12. Section 2(1)(f) provides as under: 13. Section 3(1)(ii) reads as under; 14. Now coming to the case on hand, it is found out from the
record that there are in all twelve offences have been cited by
the investigator against the applicant-accused to book him
under the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act, out of which
according to the learned advocate for the applicant, only one
offence has been registered after the promulgation of the Act
wherein also the name of the applicant-accused has not been
mentioned. Be that as it may, there are two more offences
relied upon by the investigator while opposing the bail
application filed by the applicant before the trial court which
have been registered in the year 2020, i.e, after the
promulgation of the Act. It has also come on record that the
applicant-accused had been granted temporary bail, however,
he did not surrender and jumped the temporary bail and
during that absconding period, he has committed the said two
offences which have been resulted in filing of the FIR.
Therefore, it seems that the applicant-accused is a headstrong
person having criminal mind set and thus there are all possible
chances that he would again indulge in such kind of criminal
activities if released on bail and may again, along with his Page 8 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

fellow members of the syndicate, create hustle and bustle in
the City. The applicant-accused happens to be the nephew of
the leader of the gang, namely, Ejaz Tako and has been
continuously indulged in the illegal activities as a member of
the organized crime syndicate. Apart from that, there are
statements of the secret witnesses recorded by the
investigator indicating the involvement and the mens rea on
the part of applicant-accused in the commission of the
offences as an active member of the organized crime
syndicate headed by him along with his maternal uncle.
Therefore, considering the nature of the allegations levelled
against the present applicant-accused this Court, at this stage,
is unable to convince itself that the applicant-accused is not
connected with any 'continuing unlawful activity' of the
organized crime syndicate. 15. At this stage, I would like to refer to the decision of the
Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Rajesh Ranjan Yadav @
Pappu Yadav Vs. CBI Through its Director, reported in
(2007) 1 SCC 70, wherein, the Apex Court has laid down that,
while considering an application for regular bail, the Courts
shall have to take into consideration, the following aspects,
 "(a) The nature of accusation and the severity of
 punishment in case of conviction and the nature of
 supporting evidence; (b) Reasonable apprehension of tampering with the
 witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; (c) Prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of
 the charge;" 16. The Hon'ble Apex Court, further, observed in Paragraphs-
10 and 16 thus; NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/622/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 12/03/2024

 undefined

 "10. In our opinion none of the aforesaid decisions can
 be said to have laid down any absolute and unconditional
 rule about when bail should be granted by the Court and
 when it should not. It all depends on the facts and
 circumstances of each case and it cannot be said there is
 any absolute rule that because a long period of
 imprisonment has expired bail must necessarily be
 granted. 16. We are of the opinion that while it is true that Article 21 is of great importance because it enshrines the
 fundamental right to individual liberty, but at the same
 time a balance has to be struck between the right to
 individual liberty and the interest of society. No right can
 be absolute, and reasonable restrictions can be placed on
 them. While it is true that one of the considerations in
 deciding whether to grant bail to an accused or not is
 whether he has been in jail for a long time, the Court has
 also to take into consideration other facts and
 circumstances, such as the interest of the society." 17. It is found out from the record that prima facie, the
applicant is involved in the commission of crime. Thus, without
going into further merits of the matter, looking to the nature of
the offence and severity of punishment and prima facie
involvement of the applicant accused, the present application
deserves to be rejected and accordingly rejected. 18. It is needless to say that the aforesaid observations are
tentative in nature for deciding present application only and
they shall not come in the way of the applicant accused at the
time of trial. Rule is discharged. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)
VAHID Page 10 of 10 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 13 20:43:13 IST 2024