1-1:'. ':~;l'
J¢~5' -E 3,'
Q3__ yj: Id. .p.i1. Ibid. Ibid. Id. p.111

Diwan An11, "Indian Advocates", V01. XXV, p.8. CHAPTER - II

SENTENCES AND SENTENCING - POLICIES 8 PROCEDURES

A healthy administration of criminai iaw is
essentia1 for a proper functioning of the constitutionai
democracy. It is the crimina1 1aw that protects the society
from the intentionai and cu1pab1e acts of individuals or
group of individua1s. Crimina1 1aw aiso prescribes many
preventive measures for, it is we11--sett1ed that prevention
is better than cure. However, we have to refresh our views
on the probiems of crime and its punishment keeping abreast

with the fast deve1opments ail around. 2.02. The purpose which punishment achieves or is
required to achieve are fourfo1d.' First, retribution; i.e.
taking of eye for eye or tooth for tooth. The object behind
this is to protect the society from the depredations of
dangerous persons; and so, if somebody takes an eye of
another, his eye is taken in vengeance. This form of
Punishment may not receive generai approva1 of the society in
Our present state of socia1 conditions and understanding of

human psychoiogy. The other purpose of sentencing is preventive. we
are sure that the sentence of imprisonment suffered wou1d be

an eye opener to the convict and he wou1d definiteiy not

venture to repeat the i11ega1 act again. Deterrence is another object which punishment is
required to achieve. Incarceration of sentence undergone by
the convict and'upho1ding of his conviction by Court is

1ike1y to have its effect, and shou1d deter others from

indu1ging in simiiar i11ega1 acts. As against the retributive, deterrent and
preventive theories of punishment, the reformative approach
to punishment as a measure to reciaim the offender iays
emphasis on rehabiiitation so that the offenders are

transformed into good citizens. The various theories have been reviewed from time
to time. The theory of expiation and the theory of
'retribution have faded out. Some jurists a1so have their own
doubts about the theory of deterrence. They doubt whether
pthere is something inherent in it which is aimed at the
;protection of society. E2-03. Coming to the question of aboiition of death
Qﬁntence which we wiH examine in the next chapter, it is
ﬁhsonabiy feit that the deterrence does work in appropriate

3'98 depending on circumstances and it cannot aitogether be

 ';'f*'ii';'

»provisions

17 : It is accepted that punishment is on1y the
manifestation of crime, the second ha1f of which 'is
necessari1y pre-supposed in the first, and the deed of the
crimina1 Judges itse1f. The State as the punishing authority
never thinks in terms of retribution and 01d notion of
retribution has no p1ace in the modern wor1d. Our pena1
1aws, particu1ar1y the Indian Pena1 Code, gives 1atitude to
the court in awarding the prescribed sentence. In the matter
of inf1iction, the punishment as a deterrent is expected

to serve twofo1d purpose -- individua1 and genera1.
The object is to teach the offender a 1esson and at the same
time to demonstrate to the pub1ic that such offences wou1d
attract a severe punishment. Deterrence does work, but it
may not be correct to presume that it works we11 in a11

circumstances and in a11 cases. 2.05. Our system recognises reformative theory a1so. Ihg
r 1 S o 1 6' v 1 stic c
lg Probation of Offenders Act , 195s are some of the

enactments which ref1ect the reformative approach. Ca1dwe11

observes thus: In our iaw the Poiice are prohibited from
investigating the non-cognizabie offences mainiy on the
ﬂround that most of them are triviai. The offences are then
further divided into baiiabie and non--bai1ab1e depending upon
%$h9 gravity of the offence. About 120 offences in the Indian
i na1 Code are non--cognizab1e. In many workshops it was
Egﬂnted out that this division requires to be re--examined in

 context of rapid sociai changes and that some of them

shouid be made cognizabie. It is voiced that some trivial
offences affecting pubiic order aiso can iead to serious
dsveiopments if they are not deait with promptiy and,
therefore, it is desirabie that such offences are made iiabie

for pubiic intervention. We are of the view that such a
re-examination is necessary and the offences punishabie

under sections 290, 298, 431, 432, 434, 504, 506 and 510

should be made cognizabie. In section 53 Indian Penai Code, the punishments
that can be imposed are mentioned. Section 53 is in the

foiiowing terms: Fifth1y,- Forfeiture of property; Sixth1y,-- Fine" punishment that shou1d be infiioted in the case of
a particuiar offence. A sound judiciai discretion
on the part of the triai judge in awarding
punishment can a1one distinguish between case and
case and fit the punishment to the crime in each

individuai case." 2.08. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report aiso
considered the position whether the present distinction
between simpie and rigorous imprisonment shouid be done away
with and a11 offenders deserving jaii sentence shou1d be
simpiy sentenced to imprisonment for a specified term,
ieaving it to the jai1 authorities and the prison rules to
regu1ate the kind of work to be taken from particuiar ciasses
of prisoners. The Commission, however, uitimateiy
recommended that the 1egis1ative poiicy underiying the
c1assification is sound and shouid be maintained. It may be
mentioned that under the Indian Pena1 Code the majority of
the offences are punishabie with "imprisonment of either
description", and only few with simp1e imprisonment thereby
1eaving it to the discretion of the court. No doubt the
court whiie awarding sentence has to take into consideration
ithe nature of the offence, the motive, state of mind, the
;extent of breach of duty, the manner of commission of a
Efrime, the 'means empioyed in its commission, the age and
Emtecedents of the perpetrators, etc. In view of the changes
h the socia1 set up that have taken, a fresh iook to

_ sider the efficacy of punishments have become necessary. A serious study on the question of

revising the 1ist of

offences and aiso 'of describing punishments is feit

necessary. Then the time sca1e and the system of punishment

undergo a Taking up the justification of

has to change. deterrent punishment, we find that the objective aimed at the

protection of the society, and the expectation that people

wi11 refrain from

committing the offence for fear 'of

deterrent punishment have not resuited in refraining the

peopie from committing offences. However, in the matter of

inf1iction, the deterrent punishment is expected to serve

twofo1d purpose individuai and generai. A survey of the

system of punishment obtaining in

various countries wouid

show that the concept of deterrence cannot be entireiy

eiiminated from the

present day poiicy of criminai Iaw. However, the reformative theory of punishment has gained

considerabie importance and it aims at reformation by

stressing that the offender shou1d whi1e being punished by

detention, there is a need to him to

expose educative,

heaithy and ameliorating infiuences. If the offender can be
re--educated and traits of his character can be re--shaped, he

can be put once again in the mainstream. 2.09. Now coming to the sentencing, poiicy in the various
workshops it is voiced that the amounts of fine to be imposed

shouid

considerabiy be enhanced "and

it shouid, as far as
Dossibie, be substitute for short--term imprisonment. It is
aiso expressed that the poor victims of uses and abuses of

Criminai iaw shouid be compensated by way of reparation and

' rt-.2

that the amounts of fine prescribed 1ong ago have 1ost their
re1evance and impact in the present day and the fines imposed
have no reiation to the economic structure of society and

necessary eiement of deterrence is generaliy absent. An examination of the various sections in the Code
where sentence of fine, is provided for, reveais that from a
minimum fine of Rs.iOO/- it varies up to Rs.1,000/--. In
respect of most of the offences it is beiow Rs.500/--.
Therefore, a change regarding the quantum of fine shouid be
made in a11 those sections correspondingiy, at ieast by 20
times and make a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure regarding the powers of the First Ciass Magistrates to impose

such a fine. The main probiem with the fine is in respect of the
defau1ter. In this context, the financia1 status of the
offender a1so becomes reievant. A rich man can pay the fine
and avoid being imprisoned in defau1t whereas a poor man who
ﬁannot afford to pay the fine has to undergo the

imprisonment. L10. A statisticai survey shows that imposition of fine
by the criminai courts is much more frequent than before. To
lmeiiorate the probiem regarding payment of fine by an
indigent accused it wouid be saiutary to make him pay the
?1"9 in instaiments, nameiy, a gradation between different

hﬁnaities corresponding to the resources of the offender. some of the eminent jurists have observed that a provision of
instalment payment of fines besides saving the tax-payer's
money and the prisoner from an unwholesome experience and
incidental demoralisation, creates a wholesome effect on the

family of the offender. In the case of defaulters, even

where such benefit is given, some other course can also be

evolved. He can be put on compulsory work outside the
prison, e.g., 'on public projects like dams, roads or rural
construction. Thus there are so many advantages of fine
being the punishment as far as possible besides the same
having a reformatory treatment. The fines thus collected can
usefully be utilised by the State. Of course, there are
certain disadvantages noticed. One of them is that fines in
practice are adjusted to the offence and therefore bear
unequally on the rich and the poor. The fear of fine does
not stop rich people from committing certain offences. No

doubt some of the objections are of some importance; but

taking an overall view it cannot be denied that fines have an

important role to play in law enforcement but they must be
imposed with the sound discretion and understanding
Darticularly the means to pay. They, however, should not be
Used in dealing with habitual offenders, prostitutes, drug
addicts, etc. since imposition of fine on them cannot have

ilny expected reformative results. with this background, we propose to examine the

Earious types of punishment proposed in the Bill. 2_11. Section 53 to 75 in Chapter III of the Code deal
with punishments that can be awarded under the Code. Ciause
18 of the Bi11 provides for substitution of section 53 by a

new section which is as foiiows: Vb find that in the proposed section the imprisonment for
(Fife sha11 be rigorous, that is, with hard iabour. This
Qiescription of imprisonment is not there in the existing

ibction. Likewise simpie imprisonment can be with iight
i§bour. Four new types of punishments are included, name1y,
(1) community service, (ii) disquaiification from ho1ding
affice, (iii) order for payment of compensation, and (iv)
pubiic censure. In section 53 the punishment, nameiy,

'transportation for iife" was substituted by the words

éfimprisonment for iife" by Act 26 of 1969. Section 53A which

has been added by Act 26 of 1959 states that in every case in
which a sentence of transportation for a term has been
passed, the sentence shaii be dea1t with in the same manner
as rigorous imprisonment for the same. Questions often arose
'before the courts whether the punishment "imprisonment for
Iife" means "rigorous imprisonment for iife". The Law
Commission in its 39th Report noted that there is no ciear
provision as to how the person sentenced to imprisonment for
iife shouid be deait with under the 1aw as it now stands,
nameiy, whether it shouid be same as sentence of rigorous
imprisonment for iife or simpie imprisonment for 1ife and
whether it is a punishment different in quaiity despite being
gdifferent in duration when the sentence of imprisonment of
'either description or for a specified term and whether it is
Jega11y permissibie for a court passing a sentence to 1ay
ﬁown that the imprisonment for iife sha11 be rigorous or
Eimpie. Since there is no ciear provision, a new section 68
§8 sought to be inserted in the Code of Criminai Procedure to
E39 effect "imprisonment for iife shaii be rigorous with a
Eiﬁw to resoive the doubts". Correspondingiy, the proposed

lgandment making imprisonment for iife rigorous is necessary. The other change, name1y, that simpie imprisonment as
gompared to rigorous imprisonment can be with a 1ight 1abour

is a1so a desirab1e change. 2,12. Now coming to the "community service" by way of
punishment, the question is whether it is practicabie. The
punishment by way of community service is a new concept and
c1ose1y connected with reformative theory. In "Deciaration
of Princip1es of Crime and Punishment of the Cincinnati, Ohio
meeting of the First Congress in 1880", it was observed, "the
supreme aim of present discip1ine is the reformation of
criminais, not the infiiction of indigent suffering". On
these iines the A11 India Jaii Manuai Committee has aiso
suggested the system of open jaiis for the rehabiiitation and
pre-reiease preparation of the prisoners. It is an accepted
principie that the uitimate object of punishment is to make
the anti--socia1 person a good citizen. The open air jaii
system is recommended to achieve this object of
rehabi1itation and pre--re1ease of the prisoners by giving

them necessary training and adopting correctional methods. . It is recognised that with a view to rehabiiitate the

prisoners socia11y, they shouid be empioyed in work which
wi11 prepare them for usefu1 and remunerative emp1oyment
after reiease. However, it is to be borne in mind that in
this open air prison system the prisoner enjoys a degree of

freedom but not fuiiy. The community service no doubt is

another innovation in the direction of correctional methods
but as voiced in many workshops it may not be practicable to

give an effect to and also may not amount to a punishment. Clause 27 of the Bill provides for insertion of a
new section 74A exclusively to deal with punishment of

community service and is in the following terms: 2,13 A carefui reading of this_new section shows; that
the punishment of community service can be awarded to any
person above eighteen years of age convicted of an offence
punishabie with imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding three years or with fine or with both and the
court instead of sending him to the prison or deaiing with
any other manner make an order, nameiy, "community service
order" requiring the said convict to perform without any
remuneration such work for such number of hours subject to
certain terms and conditions. In other words, an order
caiied community service order is passed after conviction by
way of punishment with aii those conditions mentioned in the
Droposed section 74A. The imp1ementation_ Dart of it is

Drovided in sub-section 1A and 1B and work is to be performed

, under proper supervision as per the arrangements to be made

by the State Government or any iocai authority. Sub-section
(2) iays down that the nature of the work to be performed by
the convict has to be specified. The object underiying in
awarding this kind of punishment though outwardiy appears to

be attractive, but there are any number of difficuities in

'enforcing the same. A mere reading of sub-section (3) makes

the point c1ear. This section contemplates a supervisory
authority to see whether the convict is working and rendering
service for the number of hours specified and if he faiis to
do so by way of defauit, he has to be sentenced thereafter.
we think an open air prison system is better suited from the
point of view of the correctionai measures rather than the

proposed punishment of community service. 2.14. The next aspect is whether the punishment
"disquaiification from hoiding office" shouid be incorporated
in section 53 of the Indian Penai Code. In some types of
cases particuiariy invoiving pubiic servants and other
persons hoiding office in corporations, companies, registered
societies, etc., ending in conviction should necessariiy
entaii with the disquaiification from hoiding office, but
such a course is intrinsicaiiy connected with their
respective service ruies and reguiations. It is a matter of
common knowiedge that in aimost aii such service ruies we
ifind some provision or other disquaiifying such a person
after conviction, from hoiding the office. Therefore, it
wouid be appropriate to ieave the issue to be decided by the - Concerned authorities under ail those ruies and reguiations

E because incidentaiiy some other questions pertaining to the

service conditions may aiso arise which warrant a further

* inquiry. E_15_ Coming to the payment of compensation by way of
Fgnishment, the Supreme Court in ri B i G v
B1§§_§gQnL§_gﬁ§5;gQgLt1¢3 citing its eariier decision in
; 1 o ic worki ' F v Unigg .gf lggjg'

Ebservedz

"It is necessary, having regard to the Directive
Principies contained under Articie 38(1) of the
Constitution of India to set up Crimina1 Injuries
Compensation Board. Rape victims frequentiy incur
substantiai financiai 1oss. Some, for exampie, are
too traumatised to continue in empioyment. Compensation for victims shaii be
awarded by the court on conviction of the offender
and by the Criminai Injuries Compensation Board
whether or not a conviction has taken place. The
Board wi11 take into account pain, suffering and
shock as weii as ioss of earnings due to pregnancy
as a resuit of the rape." gThe Court added: On the basis of principles set out in
the aforesaid decision in De1hi Domestic working
women's Forum, the jurisdiction to pay interim
compensation sha11 be treated to be part of the
overaii jurisdiction of the Courts trying the
offences of rape which, as pointed out above is an
offence against basic human rights as aiso the

Fundamentai Right of Personal Liberty and Life." 2.16. The Law Commission in its 154th Report on the Code
of Criminai Procedure has recommended insertion of a new
provision, nameiy, 357A providing for framing victim
compensation scheme by the respective State Governments under
which the compensation can be awarded to the victims on the
Iines indicated therein wherever it is found to be necessary
apart from the compensation awarded by the court under
section 357 out of the fines. we may aiso indicate that
awarding sufficient compensation depends upon many
circumstances which require some inquiry. Further in some
cases an order for payment of compensation need not
necessariiy be by way of punishment. Therefore, we are of
the view that it is not appropriate to inciude order for

Payment of compensation in section 53 by way of punishment. Another punishment which is sought to be inc1uded

1n section 53 is 'pub1ic censure', name1y, publication of the

5 name of the offender and detai1s of the offence and sentence. ; The proposed Section 74C provides for imposition of the

Q punishment by way of pubiic censure in addition to the

substantive sentence under sub-section (3) and this is
Iimited to offences mentioned in chapters XII, XIII, sections
272 to 276, 383 to 389, 403 to 409, 415 to 420 and offences
under chapter XVIII of the case as offences under proposed
new Sections 420A and 462A under the Indian Penai Code
(Amendment) Bi11. These are a11 offences where persons
entrusted with some pubiic duties commit offences. Such a
punishment has great reievance in respect of anti-sociai
offences, economic offences, otherwise ca11ed white--co11ar
offences particu1ar1y committed by sophisticated persons. It
is of common knowiedge that while these offences affect a
1arge number of peopie, the offenders are not readiiy booked.
However at ieast in such cases which end in conviction, the
punishment of pub1ic censure is iikeiy to act as a greater
deterrence because of the fear of infamy resuiting from the
pubiicity and consequent repercussions iike ioss of business
etc. Such a censure is one of the prescribed punishments in
USSR, Coiumbia and other countries. In India such form of
Dunishment is inc1uded in the Prevention of food Adu1teration
Act and Income-tax Act. The Law Commission in its 42nd
Report considered the inciusion of such a punishment and
recommended that such additiona1 punishment wouid be usefui

in the case of persons convicted for the second time of any

wr- censure by

cf the offences under chapter XII and XIII,like extortion,

criminal misappropriation, cheating and of offences relating

to documents. We are also of the view that ,such

way of an additional punishment should be there

and accordingly be included in section 53 of the Indian Penal

code and it should be left to the discretion of the court

regarding imposition of the same in selective cases. 2.17. There are only few sections

in the Indian Penal

Code which prescribe death as penalty. They are

sections 121, 132, 194, 302, 305, 2nd part of 307 and 396. However, by virtue of Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1983,

minimum sentence in respect of offence of rape has been

prescribed under section 376 (1) & (2). A

question whether

there should be such minimum sentence in respect of some more

offences was debated and ultimately consensus is that

restrictions on judicial the

pronouncements in matter of

award of sentence on principle is not a healthy practice. There may be instances occasionally where judges have failed

to award proportionate sentences, but that cannot, however,

be a factor to assume that the judges as a whole have failed

to award adequate sentences. In the 14th Report as well as

in the 42nd Report, The Law Commission examined this question

and took the view that except in exceptional cases there

should not be any provision for a minimum sentence. we agree

with this view. public- ; prescribed is

"I,-2'~s:v.»;' * "'E""'!?K"."'?"'_""F"'- 5the modern society, the type of crimes and the repetition

iCl"1m95: or (ii) in consequence of anything done or
attempted to be done by such member or pub1ic
servant in the 1awfu1 discharge of his duty as such
member or pub1ic servant whether at the time of
murder he was member or pubiic servant, as the case
may be, or had ceased to be such member or pubiic
servant; or

I (d) if the murder is of a person who had
acted in the 1awfu1 discharge of his duty under
section 43 of the Code of Criminai Procedure 1973,
or who had rendered assistance to a Magistrate or a
poiice officer demanding his aid or requiring his
assistance under section 37 or section 129 of the

said Code; or (e) if the murder has been committed by
him, whi1e undergoing sentence of imprisonment for
1ife, and such sentence has become finai, be
punished with death or imprisonment for 1ife, and

sha11 a1so be 1iab1e to fine. (3) where a person while undergoing sentence
of imprisonment for life is sentenced to
imprisonment for an offence under clause (e) of
sub-section (2), such sentence shall run

consecutively and not concurrently." The basic issue which needs consideration is

:3

:whether the capital punishment should be abolished? 5.02. The framers of the Bill intended to list out the
cases when death sentence should be awarded. The question is
whether such categories can be or may be prescribed
thereunder. we would like to examine the punishment as death
penalty in detailed manner and give our conclusions.
. However, before taking up the examination of the relevant

provision, it would be desirable to refer to the development

and the judicial response on the subject. The controversy of capital punishment is an age old
(phenomenon. For the past few decades there has been a move
ﬁfo abolish death sentence. There has been a growing public
v°Dinion in favour of it. some countries have even abolished
'the death penalty. In Britain, there has been a move for
prestoration of death penalty supported by substantial

tsections of public opinion. J'. There has been a woridwide feeiing of humanistic

jﬁroach to the crimina1s and punishment. Efforts have been

 
 
 

idg and are being made to make punishment Iiberai and reform
fg prisons. For quite some time, there has been a move to
5}1ish death sentence. There has been a growing pubiic

iinion in favour of it. Though it has not been abo1ished so

In ail the offences falling under sections 121,
$32, 194, 302, 305, Second part of 307 and 386 of the Indian
genai Code provide for punishment of death or in the
a1ternative, imprisonment for Iife. Thus, it is seen that
a11 grave offences are made punishable with death sentence. Qeath sentence is executed in India by hanging by a rope

jintii the person is declared dead. «F42!» YE Iwn

it

3.03. In India the constitutionaiity of death penaIty for

r

&urder provided under Section 302 of the Indian Pena1 Code
&nd the sentencing procedure embodied in Sec.354(3) of the
%ode of Criminai Procedure, 1973 was cha11enged in the 1 lunreme Court on the ground that they are vio1ative of
ﬁrtic1es 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. The
Eﬂdority view of the Constitution Bench, to whom the matter
E388 referred, heid that the provisions of death penalty as an

iflternative punishment for murder and aiso the sentencing

Efbcedure in Sec.353(3) Code, did not violate Articles 14 , 19

? ,nd 21 of the Constitution of India. The Supreme Court,

however, upheid the conetitutionai va1idity of a death

1pena1tY- Thus, in Jggmghan ﬁingh v. of P ' the
supreme Court was invited to dwe11 upon the constitutional
vaiidity of such a wide, unguided and uncontro11ed judiciai
discretion to' make a choice between "death" and "iife" of a
conyict. It was forcefuiiy argued before the five--member
Bench that such a discretion resuits in discrimination and
invo1ves arbitrariness vioiating articie 14 of the
Constitution. The Court rejected the argument and justified
such a wide judiciai discretion owing to impossibiiity of
1aying down sentencing norms as facts and circumstances of no
two cases are aiike and, wrong discretion in matter of

sentence, if any, is 1iab1e to be corrected by superior

courts. 3.04. Again in Bachan Si v. State of Punjab? the
Supreme Court reacting to the argument that the sentencing
procedure embodied in section 354(3) of Cr.P.C. aiiowing
death sentence oniy in undefined and unguided "special
reasons" is unfair, unreasonab1e and unjust, and is,
therefore, vio1ative of artic1es 14, 19 and 21 of the
Constitution, showed its re1uctance to formuiate rigid
standards to determine what couid be "speciai reasons". But
it advised the courts to pay due regard to the crime and

crimina1, and weigh re1ative1y the aggravating and mitigating

factors and to resort to the death sentence in the most
exceptional c1ass of cases - "the rarest of rare cases" -- when the a1ternative option is unquestionably forecioeed. Section 354(3) is in the foiiowing terms: From a reading of section 354(3) of Cr.P.C. and other
reiated provisions it is ciear that for making the choice of
punishment or for accepting the existence in that context,
the court must pay due regard both to the crime and the
criminal. The reiative weight that can be given to the
aggravating and mitigating factors depends on the facts and
circumstances of the particu1ar case. In imposing sentence
the main aspects of the character and magnitude of the
offence and the court has to keep in view the proportion
which must be maintained between offence and the pena1ty and

the other attendant circumstances that exist in the case. The Supreme Court in a series of cases ruied that

death pena1ty be awarded in "rarest of rare" cases. rvm-'

In Mgcnhi §iggn v. gtaze gt EunJ§Q3 a Bench of
three Judges of the Supreme Court having noted the principies
1aid down in Bachan Singh'e case (supra) 'regarding the
formula of 'rarest of rare cases' for imposing death
sentence, observed that the guideiines indicated in Bachan
singh's case wi11 have to be culied out and appiied to the
facts of each individuai case where the question of imposing

of death sentence arises. It was further observed as under: In Mithu v. State of Punjab5 the Constitution
VBench, held:- In Kehar Singh v. Qg1hi Administration° simi1ar

rincip1es are reiterated and it is further observed "it is a
ruesome murder committed by the accused who was emp1oyed as
ecurity guard to protect the Prime Minister. It is one of
he rarest of the rare cases in which extreme pena1ty is

:a11ed for". The aforesaid principies have been approved in many

ater cases7. 3.05. The campaign against capita1 punishment no doubt
Ias gained momentum in recent years. In 1962, a resolution
Ias moved in the Lok Sabha for the abo1ition of capitai
aunishment. The Government assured the House to refer the
latter to the Law Commission of India and consequentiy the
latter was referred to the Law Commission. The Law
EOmmission after considering the matter thoroughiy, feit that

5%
E" the particu1ar circumstances existing in India, it cannot

risk the experiment of abolition of capital punishment. In
its 35th report the Commission has elaborately dealt with the

retention of death penalty and ultimately observed as under: 3.06. However, the Law Commission has recommended that
chi1dren be1ow 18 years of age at the time of the commission
of the offence shou1d not be sentenced to death. The
Criminai Procedure Code, 1973 made a further progress in the
direction of 1ibera1isation. The shift towards
1ibera1isation in imposing 1ife imprisonment as against death

sentence in capita1 offences has a1so been highiighted by the

Supreme Court in Sarweshwgr Prasad Sharma V. State of M,P.3 in the fo11owing words: Thus in cases where there are extenuating circumstances, the
accused is punished with iife imprisonment. In the absence
of extenuating- circumstances and in the "rarest of rare

cases", capita1 punishment is awarded. 3.07 We have carefu11y considered the question from
severa1 angies after making comparative study of the iaw in
other countries and after examining various judgments tiii
date rendered by the apex court, we reiterate the
recommendation of Law Commission in its 35th Report for
retention of the capita1 punishment, but to be awarded in

accordance with the guide1ines 1aid down by the Supreme

Court. PABT - II
Specification of categories of awarding
death penaity - not necessary
'3.08. we now turn to examine the second issue arising out

§9r°Dosed sub--section (2) of Section 302 occurring under

§°7ause 125 of the bi11, namely, whether categories of cases
E

shouid be specified for awarding death penaity. The
categories specified in the proposed sub-section (2) of

Section 302 is not exhaustive. Section 354(3) of the Code of Criminai Procedure,
i9i3, as has been seen earlier, mandates the judge caiied
upon to exercise his choice between the aiternative sentence
of death and imprisonment for 1ife to state "speciai reasons" He, however, suggested factors to be taken into - consideration whiie making a choice between death sentence

and iife imprisonment iike persona}, sociai, motivational and
Dhysicai circumstances: horrendous features of the crime;
hapiess and heipiess state of the victim, intense suffering
endured by prison, torture, and excruciating death penaity
hanging over head of the convict consequent of the legai

Process. One can a1so visua1ise even in cases fa11ing under
the proposed sections 302(2)(a) or Kb) (c) or (d), that there
may be extenuating, mitigating circumstances which may deter
imposition of death sentence, and thus again the princip1e
iaid down in idagmohan singh v. State of UP" and Bachan singh's case'? as discussed ear1ier comes into p1ay. This is
even statutori1y recognised in section 354(3) of Code of
Crimina1 Procedure 1973 which enjoins that the scope and
concept of mitigating factors in the area of death penalty

must receive a 1ibera1 and expansive construction by the

courts. Therefore, in spite of the proposed amendment in the' IPC Bi11 under section 302(2), the situation wi11 be

virtua11y be the same. 3.10. Therefore, we are of the view that it is better to
retain section 302 as it is instead of reading any
1imitations into the same regarding imposition of death
sentence for the reason that it is impossib1e to put them in
any straight jacket for the reason that what circumstances
make a case a 'rarest of rare one', cannot be fixed by way of
a 1ega1 provision. Therefore, we wou1d not recommend any
change in section 302 as is proposed in c1ause 125 of the
Bi11. EABT - 11; Proposed c1ause (3) of section 302 in IPC B111

3.11. we now turn to examine the sub-c1ause (3) of c1ause

125 of the B111 which provides: We wish to examine the aforesaid provisions of the

Bi11 in the 1ight of recent 1egis1ative and judicia1 po1icy. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 if a
person undergoing the sentence of transportation for 1ife for
another offence, the iatter sentence was to commence at the
expiration of the sentence of transportation to which he was
previous1y sentenced, uniess the court directed that the
subsequentia1 sentence of transportation was to run

concurrentiy with the previous sentence of transportation. 3.12. It was in 1955 that section 307 of the Code of
Criminai Procedure of 1898 was rep1aced by a new section 397
by Amendment Act 26 of 1955. Under the new sub-section (2)
Of section 397 which came into force on January 1, 1956 if a
Derson aiready undergoing a sentence of imprisonment for 1ife
was sentenced on a subsequent conviction to imprisonment for
1ife, the subsequent sentence had to run concurrent1y with
the previous sentence. Section 427(2) of the Code of

Crimina1 Procedure, 1973 is to the same effect. Further in Bnggirgth v. D 1h Ad i i tr 1 3,

(constitution Bench), it was he1d: we fee1 that c1ause (3) of section 302 of IPC Bi11
providing for running of sentence of 1ife imprisonment
consecutive1y instead of concurrent1y, wiii be a retrograde
step in accord with deterrent and retributive theories of the
past as observed by the Supreme Court. In view of this, we
do not approve the proposed c1ause (3) of section 302 in the

Bi11. AR - V
Punishment for murder by iife cqnyict

3.13. Section 303 of the Indian Penai Code provides: The Law Commission in its 42nd Report did not

Fracommend any change in the aforesaid section since it is

"V9VY rareiy applied". The Supreme Court in ﬁjtng v. §t§t§_QﬁéEun1§h" Ciause 126 of the B111 seeks to omit Section 303 of

ithe Indian Penai Code. ?-14- We have carefuiiy considered the various provisions

Eof the BiH and feel that if section 303 is omitted the
E9°°nd part of Section 307 which provides that "when a person
Eyfending under this Section is under sentence of

lDPisonment for iife, he may, if hurt is caused, be punished

with death" cannot be retained, on the same ana1ogy and
pr1ncip1es which ho1d section 303 to be arbitrary and
oppressive and v1o1at1ve of Art1c1es 14 and '21 of the
constitution. we accord1ng1y recommend deletion of the

second part of Section 307. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14.

F N T

1973(2) SCR 541

AIR 1980 so 898

1983(3) sec 470

1983(3) sec 5

1983(2) soc 277

1988 sec 389

see ﬁ¢1¢§hg§§§£igg v. §§nL§ (1994(2) scc p.220).
§L31§_2£_Bai2§&ngn (1994(2) scc
p.467). G r1 h n r & r . v. t e 1

B iron n v. ﬂggg (JT 1994(3) SCC 54); Amrut1a1 §gme§hwgr Joghi
v. Stgtg of Mahgrgghtra (1994(3) Crimes 197). AIR 1977 SC 2423

§§1w§n§ Singh v. Sggtg of Punjag, AIR 1976 SC 230;
AIR 1976 SC 2196; AIR 1977 SC 2423. AIR 1974 SC 799

1973 (2) SCR 541

1980(2) SCC 684

1985(2) SCC 580

(1983) 2 SCC 277. CHAPTER - IV

CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY

so iong as a crime generates in the mind, it is not
punishabie. Thoughts even criminai in character often
involuntary are not crimes. But when the thoughts take the
concrete shape of an agreement to do or cause to be done an
i11ega1 act or an act which is not iiiegai by i11ega1 means
then even if nothing further is done, the agreement is
designated as criminai conspiracy. However, the proviso to
section 120A makes it ciear that except on agreement to
commit an offence, a bare agreement of the aforementioned
nature wouid not amount to an offence of criminai conspiracy
uniess some act besides the agreement is done by one or more
parties to the "reement in pursuance thereof. ' It is the
next overt step which may otherwise be of a preparatory
nature such as buying arms to imp1ement' the criminai
conspiracy that makes it punishabie. The act of purchasing
arms pursuant to an agreement to do an illegal act or an act
which is not iiiegai by i11ega1 means shaii constitute an

Jffence. Section 120A of the IPC is as fo11ows:-- 4.02. The offence of crimina1 conspiracy was introduced

in the Pena1 Code by the Crimina1 Law Amendment Act of 1913,

which inserted 'a separate Chapter VA consisting of on1y two

sections 120A and 120B. Despite the obvious and cons1derab1e

over1app1ng between the provisions of these two sections and

the provisions governing abetment of an offence by conspiracy

contained in Achapter V, the 1egis1ature did not think it

necessary to amend the ear1ier Chapter in any way. Now

Whether or not some act or i11ega1 omission takes p1ace, he

he becomes a

is 9u11ty of a crimina1 conspiracy as soon as

"arty to the agreement to commit the offence and is

amount to a crimina1'

punishable under sub--section (1) or sub-section (2) of
section 1208, as the case may be. sd far as conspiracies to
commit serious offences are concerned, section 1208 (1) puts
a party to the conspiracy in exact1y the same position as an
abettor of the offence for the purpose of punishment.
A1though it is theoreticaiiy possib1e to charge a person with
conspiring to commit an offence even where no overt act in
pursuance of the conspiracy has been done, it seidom, if
ever, happens that two or more persons are prosecuted for a
criminai conspiracy mereiy on the strength' of evidence

proving the agreement and nothing more. 4.03. However, that may be, there is no doubt that, after
the enactment of Chapter VA, abetment by conspiracy is of
1itt1e practicai use, and is redundant as a criminai iaw
concept. It may be noted, that in Engiand there is no
separate mention of conspiracy as, a species of abetment.
Therefore, in the 42nd report, the -Law Commission had
recommended the omission of the second paragraph of section

107 and a11 subsequent references in Chapter V of the Code of

abetment by conspiracy. One is struck by the wide sweep of the definition
of criminai conspiracy in section 120 A. It covers not on1y (i) an agreement to commit an offence, but aiso (ii) an
agreement to commit an i11ega1 act, and (iii) an agreement to
commit an act not i11ega1 by i11ega1 means. This distinction

between achievement of any object by i11ega1 means must

involve the doing of something illegal, i.e. the committing
of an illegal act. The act which is an offence punishable
under sub-section (i) or sub--section (2) of section 1203 is
being a party to a criminal conspiracy as defined in section
120A. In other words, how criminal 'conspiracy is not an
offence ancillary to another offence, but an independent and

substantive offence by itself. 4.04. In fact, the modern crime of conspiracy is almost
entirely the result of the manner in which a conspiracy was
treated by the Court in the doctrine of conspiracy which does
not commend itself to jurists of civil law countries, despite
universal recognition that an organised society must have
legal weapons for combating organised criminality. Most
other countries have devised what they consider more
discriminating principles upon which to prosecute criminal

gangs, secret associations, and subversive syndicates. According to the definition of criminal conspiracy. two or more persons musgpbe parties to such an agreement and
one person alone can never be held guilty of criminal
conspiracy for the simple reason that one cannot conspire
with oneself.' The offence of criminal conspiracy consists in
the very agreement between two or more persons to commit a
criminal offence irrespective of the further consideration

whether or not those offences have actually been committed. The very fact of the conspiracy constitutes the offence and
it is immateriai whether anything has been done in pursuance

of the un1awfu1 agreement.2

Thus, even if there is concurrence in the intention
of the accused persons to do an i11ega1 act it is not enough
for the purpose of estabiishing a charge of conspiracy. In
other words, where there is no meeting of minds there cannot

be a conspiracy.3

4.05. It is not an ingredient of the offence under this
section that a11 the parties shouid agree to do a singie
i11ega1 act. It may comprise the commission of a number of
acts. where the accused are charged with having conspired to
do three categories of i11ega1 acts, the mere fact that a11
of them cou1d not be convicted separateiy in respect of each
of the offences has no reievancy in considering the question
whether the offence of conspiracy has been committed. They
can ali be heid gui1ty of the Qgfence of conspiracy to do
i11ega1 acts, though for individuai offences all of them may
not be 1iab1e.' It is not necessary that each member of the
conspiracy must know a11 the detaiis of the conspiracy.5 An
offence under this section consists in the conspiracy without
any reference to the subject--matter of the conspiracy and it
is not necessary to estabiish the offence that there must
have been definite purpose about which the parties are

negotiating or which they have conspired. 4.06. The Law Commission in its 42nd report was of the
view that there is neither theoretica1 Jurisdiction nor
practica1 need for punishing agreements to commit petty
offences or non-crimina1 i11ega1 acts. In practice, few
private prosecutions of such petty conspiracies are
sanctioned by the State government or its officers under the Criminal Procedure Code . Therefore, it was recommended that
section 120A which defines crimina1 conspiracy should be

revised as fo11ows:-- 4.07. It may be mentioned that the IPC (Amendment) Bi11,
1978 is siient and has not indicated any change about the
offence of criminai conspiracy. But the then Law Commission
in its 42nd report was of the view that criminai conspiracy
for petty offences shouid not be covered under this chapter.
In this context, it is submitted that a petty offence may
iead to an offence of serious nature and it wouid not be easy

to separate such crimes as per doctrine of Res-gestae. Moreover, the crime of criminai conspiracy differs
from other offences. In other offences, the intention to do
a crimina1 act is not a crime in itseif until something is
done amounting to the doing or the attempting to do some act
to carry out the intention. On the other hand conspiracy
consists simpiy in the agreement or Confederacy to do some
act, no matter whether it is done or not. Further, section
120A does not just contain a principie of constructive
iiabiiity, therefore, if an accused is found guiity of
criminai conspiracy, may be for a petty offence, he shouid be

convicted under this section. 4.08. Therefore, it is suggested not to disturb this

section as the same is working we11. 4.09. This section is the supp1ement of previous section
and provides punishment for the crime committed thereof. It
wi11 be noticed that, for the purposes of punishment, section
lggg divides criminai conspiracies into two ciasses. Where
the conspiracy is to commit a serious offence, i.e. an
offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or
upwards, a party to the conspiracy is punished in the same
manner as if ,he had abetted the offence. In the second
category there are inc1uded conspiracies to commit any other
offence (inciuding offences punishab1e on1y with fine) and
conspiracies to commit i11ega1 acts other than offences; and
for these, sub--section (2), provides a uniform punishment,
viz. imprisonment of either description upto six months or
fine or both. Recognising that it wouid be dangerous to
1eave these petty conspiracies to be alieged before court: by

any person so provision is made in the Criminai Procedure -: 70 2-

Code, that no court shall take cognizance of them except upon
complaint made by order or under authority from the State

Government or some officer empowered in this behalf. In other words, the punishment for a criminal
conspiracy is more severe if the agreement is one to commit a
grave offence; and less severe if agreement is to commit an
act, which although illegal, is not an offence punishable
with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment
for more than two years. This section applies where no
offence has been actually committed by the members of the
conspiracy who are parties during the period of conspiracy

for which they are charged under this section. 4.10. In England the law of conspiracy is not so widely
drawn as in India. Conspiracy is a common law misdemeanour
punishable with fine or imprisonment at the discretion of the
court, except in the case of murder where by statute there is
a maximum punishment of ten years. It consists in the
agreement between two ore more persons to effect some -"unlawful" purpose. while the commission of a crime, even a
non-indictable crime, is naturally recognised as an unlawful
Durpose, there are no precise or clear rules in regard to
non--criminal unlawful purposes of an indictable conspiracy.
Conspiracies to defraud, to commit a tort involving malice,
or to commit a public mischief, are, broadly speaking,
indictable. A conspiracy to commit or induce breach of

contract is probably not indictable at the present day. 4_11. Though the present sub-section (1) of section 1208
oniy refers to offences punishab1e with rigorous imprisonment
for a term of two years or upwards, the offences which are
punishabie with imprisonment of either description for a term
of two years or upwards, shouid be brought within the
definition of criminai conspiracies. The second Expianation
as suggested by the Law Commission in its 42nd Report is on
the same 1ines as the expianation to section 121A; though not

strictly necessary, it seems desirabie to have it' in this

section a1so. Under sub--section (1) of section 1208 a party to a
criminai conspiracy is 1iab1e to be punished in the same
manner as if he.had abetted the intended offence. This means
that, in every case of conspiracy, the appropriate provision
contained in Chapter V wi11 have to be found out and appiied.
It wouid obviousiy be preferabie to make the section

se1f--contained. Therefore. in the 42nd report, the then Law
Commission had recommended that section 1208 shouid be

revised as fo11ows: 4.12. It appears that the Law Commission made the
recommendation for the revision of section 1208 with the
intention to make the section se1f--contained. But the
recommendation wi11 make the 1anguage ambiguous. Therefore,
this recommendation couid not find a piace in the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 which is siient about this section. This section, no doubt, is very important as it

eprovides a punishment on1y for criminsi conspiracy where no

Eiqmpress provision is made in the Code for the punishment of

;;such a conspiracy. where, therefore, a crimina1 conspiracy

';amounts to an abetment under section 107, it is unnecessary

to invoke the provisions of this section, because the Code
has made specific provisions for the punishment of such a
conspiracy. Now it is we11 settied that a criminsi

conspiracy is a separate offence, punishabie separately from

the main offence." 4.13. In the iight of the above discussion, we are of the
view that our recommendation in the matter is same for both
the sections for the reasons mentioned eariier. In other
words, there is no need to disturb chapter VA as it works

iike residuary provision for the crime of conspiracy. EQQI_!QIE§

Topandas Vs. State , (1956), 25 SCR 881. Noor Mohammad Vs. State , (1970) SCC(Cri) 274. Union of India Vs. Prafu11a K. Sonal, (1979)
SCC(Cri) 609. Major EG Barsay Vs. State . AIR 1961 SC 1762. Da1mia R.K. Vs. Delhi Administration (1962) II
Cr.L.J 805. Mahesh Chand, 1986 (1) Crimes 63. A150 "Hazari

Baria,1928, 30 Cr. L.J 473. CHAPTER - V

FINANCIAL SCAMS

CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS

There are various serious economic offences which
are damaging the society.I It is neediess to say that the
motive for commission of these crimes is the greed of the
person and the method emp1oyed is nothing short of fraud.
The Union Government appointed a Committee known as
"Santhanam Committee"1 in the year 1962 which, after a
carefu1 survey, categorised 8 kinds of socio-Economic
offences such as, inter a1ia , i) Offences ca1cu1ated to prevent or obstruct the economic
deveTopment of the country and endanger its economic hea1th, ii) Evasion and avoidance of taxes, and iii) Profiteering, b1ack--marketing and hoarding. 5.02 Recently, various sort of scams in various fie1ds,
e.g., banks, hospita1s, investment of pub1ic shares invo1ving
crores of rupees have surfaced. In §hiv gaggr Tjwgci v.
Union of Ingig,3 the Supreme Court has aTso observed that
there are various scams in the country. 5.03 Apparent1y, financia1 scams have the genesis of
committing fraud with the pub1ic money running into crores

and crores of rupees. The nation's economy is put in

doldrums when such colossal amount is pocketed in by vested
interests through fraudulent means leaving the poor citizen's
hard earned money which he invested for his prosperity or to
cater for his evenings of his life, for being siphoned off by
few culprits. Above all, if such culprits go scot free after
even a protracted trial, or are met with punishments similar
to an accused of fraud of insignificant amount as compared to
those of scams, people start loosing faith in the
jurisprudence of justice prevailing in the country. This has
the direct inroad into the confidence of democratic set up of
the country and the very existence of an orderly society is
put at stake. In A.Jayaram and Another v. State of Andnrg
Pradesh by CB1,3 the Supreme Court deprecated that officials
involved in a fertilizer scandal of large scale went scot

free because of tardy inquiries made by State Police. It

held:- In t Authority v. Skinng; construction Company (D) Ltd.' , it was held:- Thus no more support is required to conclude that
scams of diverse forms cited above, have to be very

effectively tackled. 5.04 Needless to say that that most of the frauds
generally are not committed individually but with the aid and

assistance of others in an organised manner. 5.05 The Law Commission (UK) in its report' on "Criminal
Law: conspiracy to defraud" (LAW COM No.228) has considered
conspiracy to defraud, which remains a common law offence.
The scope of conspiracy to defraud is extremely wide. As its
name indicates, it cannot be committed by one person acting
alone. The Commission (UK) explained the conspiracy to

defraud as follows:- Ana1ysis of above position Aparticu1ar1y the

Observations of the Supreme Court made in skippers case

indicate a need to carve out an aggravated form of

conspiracy particu1ar1y in cases when fraud is committed
against Government, Pubiic Sector Sanks or Pubiic Financiai
Institutions, 1oca1 authority, or any State Undertaking or
Agency. In the Skipper's case,' the offence was committed by
the Skipper's Construction Company (P) Ltd. in co11usion
with DDA officia1s. we are of the view that this probiem can
be tack1ed if the fo11owing new section, nameiy Section

120BB, is inserted in IPC :- FOOTNOTE§

Committee on Prevention of Corruption, 1962 Report,
headed by Chairman Shri K.Santhanam

1996(9) SCALE 680. 1995(4) SCALE 393. AIR 1996 SC 2005. The Law Commission (UK) (LAW COM. N0.228)
'Crimina1 Law Conspiracy to defraud' Item 5 of the
Fourth Programme of Law Reform: Criminai Law. Supra note 4. CHAPTER - VI

ATTEMPT - INSERTION OF NEW SECTIONS 120 O G 120
BY WAY OF NEW CHAPTER VB IN THE BILL

The IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 made a provision for

qg this new Chapter under Clause 45. Also by mistake, clauses
46 to 51 of the Bill were incorporated in this Chapter which,
in fact, constitutes an independent Chapter, i.e., Chapter VI
as per IPC contents. Therefore, this new Chapter is confined

to sections 120 C and 120 D only which are dealing with the

"Attempt". 6.02 The subject of attempt has already been
incorporated in the last Chapter i.e. XXIII (containing only
one section 511 of the Code as a residuary provision.
' However, in the Bill it is inserted just after Chapter VA,
perhaps, in view of the importance of the concept and its
close connection with abetment and conspiracy. In the Bill,
section 511 has been omitted by inserting this new Chapter

which has only two sections, namely sections 120 C and 120-0. 6.03 It may be mentioned that numerous sections in the
Code, while defining the acts which constitute particular
offence, place attempts to do these acts at par with doing
the acts themselves and make' them punishable to the same

extent. Such provisions of the Code may be summed as under:- If one were to construe section 511 strictiy as a
residuary provision, none of the ideas contained therein
wou1d be appiicabie for interpreting what constitutes an
attempt to wage war under section 121 or an attempt to rescue
a prisoner of war under section 130.' These sections

themseives do not furnish any guidance for this purpose. (5) Section 153A - attempt to promote feeiings of

enmity, etc.

(6) Section 161 -- attempt by a public servant to

obtain an i11ega1 gratification. (7) Section 162 - attempt to obtain a gratification
in order by corrupt or i11ega1 means to inf1uence a

pub1ic servant. (8) Section 163 - attempt to obtain a gratification
for exercising personai inf1uence over a pubiic

servant. (9) Section 165 -- attempt by pubiic servant to
obtain a vaiuabie thing without consideration from
a person concerned in proceeding or business

transacted by the pub1ic servant. (10) Section 196 - attempt to use as true, evidence

known to be faise. (11) Section 213 - attempt to obtain a
gratification to screen an . offender from

punishment. (12) Sections 239 and 240 -- attempt to induce a

person to receive a counterfeit coin. (13) Section 241 - attempt to induce a person to
receive as genuine a counterfeit coin which, when
the offender took it into his possession, he did

not know to be counterfeit. (14) Section 307 which, without using the word
attempt except in the margin, defines attempt to

murder. (15) section 308 which simi1ar1y defines attempt to

commit cu1pab1e homicide not amounting to murder. In the preceding iast two sections, the attempt

consists in doing any act with such intention or know1edge,A

and under such circumstances, that if the actor by th§L_g§L
ggused death, he wouid be guiity of murder or, as the case
may be, cuipabie homicide not amounting to murder. The

hypotheticai condition if he by that got caused death is not

easy to appiy in cases where the act done was physicaiiy
incapabie of causing any one's death. The question whether
there cou1d be an attempt to murder not faiiing within
section 307, or an attempt to commit cu1pab1e homicide not
fa11ing within section 308, but punishabie as such under
section 511, the residuary section, is not entireiy

theoreticai as it has been raised before the courts fairiy

often. (16) Section 309 - attempt to commit suicide. 6. 04 (17) Section 385, 387 and 389 -- attempt to put a

person in fear of injury or accusation in order to

commit extortion. (18) Section 391 - conjoint attempt of five or more

persons to commit a dacoity. (19) Sections 393, 394 and 398 -- attempt to commit

robbery. (20) Section 460 - attempt by one of many Joint

house--breakers by night to cause death or grievous

hurt. Fina11y, there is section 511 which runs as under:- A makes an attempt to pick the pocket of Z by (b)

thrusting his hand into Z's pocket. A faiis in the

attempt in consequence of Z's having nothing in his

pocket. A is guiity under this section.'

However, the Law Commission in its 42nd report 3) found that the ianguage used in section 511 is

sing. It was aiso mentioned that section 309

commit suicide in the same way "whoever

o commit suicide and does any act towards the

of such offence..." Therefore, to constitute a

attempt two requirements are apparently to be

nameiy

V" 6.06 The crux of the probiem of defining attempt seems
to Tie in stating with precision a test as to when the act

has trave11ed beyond the preparatory stage.
There are two tests to determine the "attempt". (i) First test is of proximity. The much-quoted

dictum is that acts remoteiy Teading towards the commission

of an offence are not to be considered as attempts to commit

it, but acts immediateiy connected with it are, states the

proximity ruie. In other words, to constitute an attempt, the act

done must be immediate1y, and not mere1y remoteiy, connected

with the commission of the offence. (ii) Second1y, test is known as the test of Tast

act. Acts remoteiy leading towards the commission of the

offence are not to be considered as attempts to commit it,

but acts immediateiy connected with it are. But this test of 1aet act has, however, obvious
f1aws. It cannot be app1ied to a situation where the accused
intends to accomp1ish his object by degrees, such as, murder
by s1ow poisoning. Moreover, the act which remains to be
done by the offender puts poison in a giass and a1so intends
to pour wine in it, but the wine is actuaily poured by the
victim. Here the "last act" which the offender wished to do

was not, in fact, done by him, but that need not prevent the

act from being an attempt. 6.07 In order to constitute an attempt, the acts of the
accused must be such as to c1ear1y and unequivoca11y indicate
of themseives, the intention to commit the offence.: It is also to be mentioned that the actus [egg
necessary to constitute an "attempt" is comp1ete if the
accused does an act which is a step towards the commission of
the specific crime, which is immediateiy and not mereiy
remoteiy connected with the commission of it, and the doing
of which cannot reasonabiy be regarded as having any other

purpose other than the commission of specific crime. F' The Supreme Court had expressed its view regarding

an attempt as under 3 - Eminent Jurist Sir James Stephen, in his Digest of

Criminai Law, Articie 50, defines an attempt as fo11ows:- 6.09 After having a giance of juristic interpretation of
an "attempt", it is crysta1 c1ear that for an "attempt", a
futi1e act of the accused is a must. Had he been successful,
the same wouid have been a crime. But his faiiure for the
same converts the crime into an "attempt". Simiiar approach
was taken in both the i11ustrations of section 5i1, where it
is stated that a person during the futiie act is guiity of

attempting to commit theft. 6.10 The Law Commission in its 42nd report had
recommended that the iast Chapter of the Code containing oniy
section 511 be omitted and, instead, a new chapter V-B
entitied "Attempt" consisting of two sections 120C and 1200

be inserted after Chapter VA as fo11ows:- I11ustration§ (a) A, intending to murder Z, buys a gun and
ioads it. A is not yet guiity of an attempt to
commit murder. A fires the gun at 2, he is gui1ty

of an attempt to commit murder. (b) A, intending to murder 2 by poison,
purchases poison and mixes the same with food which
remains in A's keeping; A is not yet guiity of an

attempt to commit murder. A piaces the food on Z'e

tab1e, or de1ivers it to 2's servant to place it on
2's tabie. A is guiity of an attempt to commit

murder. (c) A, with intent to steal another person's
box, whi1e traveiiing in a train, takes a box and
gets down. He finds the box to be his own. As he
has not done any act towards the commission of the
offence intended by him, he is not guiity of an

attempt to commit theft. (d) A, with intent to steai jeweis, breaks
open Z's box, and finds that there is no jewei in
it. As his act faiied in its object because of
facts not known to him, he is guiity of an attempt

to commit theft." 6.11 In view of this definition of attempt, which could
be applied in relation to murder and culpable homicide not

amounting to murder without any serious difficulty, the Law

oﬁ

commission in 42nd report did not consider it necessary to
have a different formula to define attempt to commit either
of these offences. It was also recommended to revise

Sections 307 and 308 as follows: 5.12' In the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1979, the
recommendations made by the Law Commission were incorporated

with minor amendments iike -- (i) I11ustration (c) to section 120C was dropped

and i11ustration (d) was made iiiustration (c). (ii) At the end of section 307 (b), the fo11owing

words were inserted: ,5.'

In the Biii, the texts of sections 120-C and 120-0
runs as under. - ' ' f A

:- A person attempts to commit

an offence, when -- (a) he, with the intention or knowiedge requisite

for committing it, does any act towards its commission; (b) the act so done is cioseiy connected with, and

proximate to, the commission of the offence; and (c) that act faiis in its object because of facts
not known to him or because of circumstances beyond his
controi. 1 u r 1 (a) A, intending to murder 2, buys a gun and ioads it. A is not yet guiity of an attempt to commit murder. A fires

the gun at 2, he is guiity of an attempt to commit murder. (b) A, intending to murder 2, by poison, purchases

poison and mixes the same with food which remains in A's

keeping; A is not yet guiity of an attempt to commit murder. A places the food on Z's, table, or delivers it to Z'e
servant to place it on 2's table. A is guilty of an attempt

to commit murder. (c) A, with intent to steal Jewels, breaks open Z's
box, and finds that there is no jewel in it. As his act
gfailed in its object because of facts not known to him, he is

guilty of an attempt to commit theft. 1200. Eun1§nmenL_Q£_ntt§mQL;- Whoever is guilty of an
attempt to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment for
life or with imprisonment for specified term, shall, where no
express provision is made for the punishment of such attempt,
be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for
the offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the
imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one-half of the
longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence, or

with such fine as is provided for the offence, or with both" To constitute a crime of an attempt under the Code,

the offender's intention to commit a compiete offence is

necessary. The very wording in section 511 that 'To cauoo

such an offence to be committed" will inciude an attempt to

abet an offence. So it has been he1d that it is not 1ega11y

possible to attempt the abetment of an offence, the abetment

of an offence being itseif an offence. A common form of such

attempt is the soiiciting of another to commit an offence. The act done towards the commission of the offence consists

in the soiicitation iteeif. It wi11 not affect the offence

though the person eoiicited deciinee the pereuaeion. Simiiariy, the wording of section 511 "Does any act

towards the commieaion of the offence" are aiao vitai words. The theft itself, that is, actual removal of the
jewels, still remains to be done and it remains
undone only because it turns out that there are no

jewels to remove. (b) Z fails to comply with the essentials of theft

simply because there is nothing in the pocket. For the conviction under this section it is not

necessary that the accused should complete the stage in the
actual offence except the final stage. it is enough if in

the attempt he did any act towards the commission of the

offence. by -: 103 :- was never meant to cover oniy the

6.15 Section 511
penuitimate act towards compietion of an offence and not the

preceding acts. If such acts are done in the course of the

attempt to commit the offence, then they are done towards its

commission. It appears from the above discussion, that it wouid

be most difficuit to frame a satisfactory and exhaustive
definition which shaii iay down for a11 cases where
preparation to commit an offence ends and where attempt to

commit that offence begins. The question is not one of mere

proximity in time or piace. Many offences can easiiy be

conceived where, with a11 necessary preparations made, a Tong

intervai wiii stiii eiapse between the time when the attempt

to commit the offence commences and the time when it is

compieted. The offence of cheating and inducing deiivery is

an offence on point. The time that may eiapse between the

moment when the preparations made for committing the fraud

the mind of the person to be

are brought to bear upon

deceived and the moment when he yieids to the deception

practised upon him may be a very considerable intervai of

time. There may be the interposition of inquiries and other

acts upon his part. The acts whereby those preparations --mey

be brought to bear upon the mind may be several in point of

number, and yet the first act after preparations completed

in itseif, be beyond aii doubts, equaiiy an

wi11, if criminai

attempt with the ninety ninth act in the series. Moreover, the definition in section 511 uses the
word 'attempt' in a very iarge sense; it seems to impiy that
such an attempt may be made up of a series of acts, and that
any one of those acts done towards the commission of the
offence is itse1f punishabie, and, though the sections does
not use the words, it can mean nothing but punishabie as an
,attempt. It does not say that the Tast act which wouid form

¢§he final part of an attempt in the 1arger sense is the only
act punishabie under the section. The words, "whoever
attempts to commit an offence" obviousiy have the iarger
meaning to cover any act, done towards the commission of the
offence. The term 'any act' exciudes the notion of the finai

act. 6.16 In the Tight of above discussion, it is very ciear

that section 511 is working we11 and there is no need to omit
r' -7 it. Therefore, no need to introduce a new Chapter V-B

containing sections 120 C and 120 D. Nonetheiess, if need

be, the ianguage of section 511 may be amended. Russe11 on Crime, (1964) Vo1.1 page 184. (Edited

by Dr.Turner). Abhayanand Mishra Vs. State of Bihar , (1962) 2 SCR

 I -: 106 :- CHAPTER - VII

OFFENCES AGAINST THE STATE

Offences against the State are included in this

chapter. It has the flavour of the approach of Empire
ggbuilders. The chapter has undergone very iittie amendment
ﬂsave for the introduction of section 121A by the Act XXVII of
1870 and section 124A by the Act IV of 1898. These
additionai sections were introduced to piug a ioophole
because of an inadvertent omission of a speciai provision for
the punishment of the offence of abetment of rebeiiion, to
protect at the reievant time the Empire builders. However,
no Government can afford to aiiow a threat to deveiop to its
existence by a sma11 coterie of peopie. There is no country

on earth in which there is not a smaii minority group

V commoniy known as terrorists which is aiways up in arms

against the estabiished Government. The secessionist
activity has reared its ugiy head even in countries which
appeared to have an integrated personaiity. It has become
necessary to provide permissibie norms of poiitical

behaviour, vioiation of which must be punishabie. This chapter provides for punishment of those
engaged in waging a war against the Government of India,
conspiracy to commit such offences, preparation to commit

such offences such as coiiecting arms etc. with intention of

'Wr- waging war and conceaiing the existence of a design to wage

war. Section 124A which provides punishment for sedition was

described by the Father of the Nation as the prince amongst

the poiiticai sections of the Indian Penai Code. It may be

"mentioned that such renowned personaiities as Mahatma Gandhi,

the Father of the Nation, and Ba} Gangadhar Tiiak were aiso

tried and punished during the heyday of British Empire under

section 124 A.

The iine dividing preaching disaffection towards
the Government and iegitimate political activity in a
democratic set--up cannot be neatiy drawn. where iegitimate

criticism of the Government in power ends and

poiiticai

disaffection begins, cannot be ascertained with precision. The demarcating iine is thin and wavy. what was sedition

against the Imperiai ruiers may today pass off as a

iegitimate poiiticai activity in a democratic set--up under

our libertarian Constitution. The interpretation of the

reievant sections in this chapter wiii have to be mouided

within the ietter and spirit of the Constitution. In this chapter, the first five sections deal with

what may be caiied acts of high treason waging war against

the Government of India, conspiring to wage war, preparation

to wage war, faciiitating of such activities and overawing

the Government or the Head of State by force. *"'anti-social

£8 --: 108 :- Next section is the punishing one of sedition. Then three sections aim at preserving friendly relations with

foreign States by punishing those who attempt to prejudice

those relations by unwarranted aggressive action. The last

three. sections of the chapter, which relate to prisoners of

are not of much practical importance

war and state prisoners,
during peace time, especially since the category referred to

"State prisoners" during the British regime no longer

exists, having given place to the less dignified appellation

of "persons under preventive detention". 7.02 with this chapter begins the definition of

particular offences which the makers of the Code thought fit

to include in it. Despite the large number - about 400 - of

such offences for which the punishment is prescribed in the

Code, the compilation cannot in the nature of things be

exhaustive. Other types of wrongful, injurious or

conduct made punishable under other special laws

like Army Act, Air Force Act, and so on. The Law Commission

in its 42nd report observed that while an enlargement of the

including therein some of the

scope of the Penal Code by

offences now punishable under a special or local law may be

desirable, it is neither necessary nor practicable to attempt

to make the Code an absolutely complete- law of crime. However, in brief some of these special laws which are

sedition and other kindred offences against

dealing treason,

the security and integrity, may be mentioned as under ~ -: 109 :- (1) The Foreign Recruitment Act, 1874 (ii) The Indian Criminai Law Amendment Act , 1908 (iii) The Official Secrets Act , 1923 (iv) The Crimina1 Law Amendment Act , 1938 (v) The Criminai Law Amendment Act , 1961 (vi)The Uniawfui Activities (Prevention)

Act,1967; and so on

7.03 It is clear that treason, sedition and cognate
offences which may be ciassified as offences against the
security of the state, are dealt within codes of other
countries in much greater detaii than in our Penai Code. In
particuiar, it is noticeabie that treason and treaeonabia
activities are speit out eiaborateiy, and not limited to
waging war against the Government and aesauiting the head of
State. On a preliminary study of the probiem it appears that
the strengthening, consoiidation and revision of some of the
provisions of this important branch of criminai Taw wouid be
necessary. However, in the Amendment B111 oniy two changes
are proposed, nameiy, insertion of a new section 123A and
substitution of section 124A and changing the nature of
sentence to rigorous imprisonment under sections 122 and 123. Having regard to the importance of the Penal provisions in -: 110 :~

this regard, we wou1d also examine the question whether any
changes are necessary in these existing provisions, nameiy,

section 121 and 121A. 7.04 Section 121 prescribes the punishment, name1y death
or imprisonment for iife, for the principai offence of waging
war against the Government of India and for abetting that
offence or attempting to commit that offence. Neither 42nd

giport nor IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978 has suggested any

change. Therefore, this section does not require any
change. 7.05 Section 121A provides as under:- Section 121A punishes two different kinds of

conspiracy. The first is a conspiracy to wage war against

the Government of India, and the second is a conspiracy to

overawe by force the Centra1 Government or any State

Government. In view of section 120 B, there is hard1y any

need for a separate section to dea1 with the first kind of

conspiracy. If any such conspiracy actua11y resu1ts in the

waging of war against the Government of India, or even an

attempt to wage such war, the conspirators wi11 be punishab1e

with death or imprisonment for 1ife under section 121 read

with section 120 B; and the conspiracy is infructuous, they

wi11 be punishab1e with ha1f the 1ongest term of imprisonment

provided for the offence, that ten years, which may be
sufficient. 7.06 On reading, it Iooks difficu1t that purpose is
served at present by the words "within or without India" The Law Commission observed in its 42nd report that
since this offence is akin to the one described in section
124, it wou1d be 1ogica1 to bring it after the three sections
deaiing with waging war and the proposed new section about

assisting India's enemies, and to number it 1238. 7.08 Pertaining to the second kind of conspiracy (para
05 above), in the 42nd report it was recommended that section
121A may be amended but in the IPC (Amendment) Bil] 1978, the
same was not accepted. Aiso in the proposed amendment, the
idea to overawe by criminai force as an offence was extended
to the Pariiament or the State's On the other hand, the
originai text of section 121A (which was inserted by the Act
3 of 1951) provides generai and wide scope to cover a11 types
of conspiracy for the offence mentioned in section 121 of the

Code. Neediess to mention that the words, -: 114 :- or' conspires to overawe, by means of criminai
force or the show of criminai force the Central
Government or any State Government, shali be

punished..." are sufficient to cover the words, "Pariiament or the State

Legisiature" as the iegisiative is an essentiai part/wing of
every democratic government. About the said recommendations

nothing has been mentioned in the Amendment Bi11. 7.09 Having earnestiy considered in the aforesaid manner
these provisions, nameiy, section 121A, we are of the view
that no changes are necessary and we endorse that the absence
of any major poiicy changes in the Bi11 is of no consequence.
Likewise, having examined sections 121, 122, 123 and aiso
having noted that the Law Commission in its 42nd Report did
not suggest any amendment, and these sections wi11 remain as
they are except that the words "imprisonment of either

description" being substituted with "rigorous imprisonment". 7.10 The Law Commission in its 42nd Report recommended
for inserting a new section 123A and the same finds piece in
the Amendment Bi11. The New Section 123A as recommended by
the Law Commission reads as fo11ows: The above recommendation for inserting a new
section 123-A got a p1ace in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11. But
in the B111, an Expianation was added in the proposed

section. The said Expianation may be read as under:- 7.11 Proposed section 123A in the Bi11 is based on the
recommendation of the Law Commission in its 42nd Report. An
Expianation is, however, added in the Bi11 which sxpiains the
expressions 'armed forces of India' and 'enemy' in the
context of the offence covered by the main section 123A as

recommended by the Law Commission. Therefore, there is no

harm in having this Expianation. 7.12 The existing section 124A defines the offence of
sedition. Despite the umbra of repression which a mention of
this section is iikeiy to evoke in one's 'mind, it is a
provision which has to find a piace in the Penal Code for the
reason that every State, whatever its form of Government, has
to be armed with the power to punish those who by their
conduct, jeopardise the safety and stabiiity of the State, or
disseminate such feeiings of disioyaity as have the tendency

to 1ead to the disruption of the State or to pubiic disorder. 7.13 In Engiand, the crime of sedition is a crime
against society nearly a11ied to that of treason, and it
frequentiy precedes treason by a short interval. The objects
of sedition generaiiy are to induce discontent and
insurrection and stir up opposition to the Government, and
bring the administration of justice into contempt; and the
very tendency of sedition is to incite the peopie to
insurrection and rebeiiion. Sedition has been described as
disioyaity in action and the iaw considers as sedition all
those practices which have for their object to excite
discontent or dissatisfaction, to create pubiic disturbances,
or to iead to civii war; to bring into hatred or contempt the
Sovereign or the Government, the laws or Constitution of the

reaim, and generaiiy aii endeavours to promote public

disorder. 7.14 It may be observed that criticism on poiiticai

natters is not of itseif seditious. The test is the manner
in which it is made. Candid and honest discussion is
Jermitted. The Taw oniy interferes when the discussion
)asses the bounds of fair criticism. More especiaily wiii

:his be the case when the naturai consequence of the

)risoner's conduct is to promote pubiic disorder. It may be mentioned that the definition of sedition
in the existing section 124A is iimited to exciting
jisaffection towards the Government estabiished by Taw.
Exciting disaffection towards the Constitution or Pariiament
Jr the administration of justice is not mentioned as a
seditious activity. On the other hand, whiie promotion of
Jubiic disorder in some form or other is considered an
assentiai ingredient of seditious conduct in England, this

idea is not brought out in the wording of section 124A. 7.15 In view of the controversy which has raged round
section 124A for aii this time, it is cieariy necessary to
revise the formuiation of the offence so as to make it a
patentiy reasonabie restriction under Articie 19 (2). The
eiements mentioned in this Articie which are reievant to the
offence of sedition are integrity of India, security of the
State and pubiic order. The section has been found to be
defective because "the pernicious tendency or intention" 7.16 Another defect a1ready noticed in the definition of
sedition is that it does not take into account disaffection
towards (a) the Constitution, (b) the Legisiatures, and (c)
the administration of justice, a11 of which wouid be as
disastrous to the security of the State as disaffection
towards the executive Government. These aspects are rightly
emphasised in defining sedition in other Codes and section

124 A shouid be revised to take them in. The punishment provided for the offence is very
odd. It couid be imprisonment of iife, or e1se, imprisonment
upto three years oniy, but nothing in between. The Law
Commission observed that there is a need to give a firmer
indication to the Courts of the gravity of the offence by
fixing the maximum punishment at seven years rigorous
imprisonment and fine. That is why, the Law Commission in
its 42nd report asked that this section be revised as

fo11ows:- inciudes feeiings of enmity, hatred or contempt. Exgianation 2: Comments expressing disapprobation
of the provisions of the Constitution, or of the
actions of the Government, or of the measures of
Pariiament or a State Legisiature, or of the
provisions for the administration of justice, with
a view to obtain their aiteration by iawfui means
without exciting or attempting to excite
disaffection, do not constitute an offence under

this section.' -: 120 :- 7.17 This recommendation found a place in the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 under the heading "sedition". Clause
48 of the Bill is substituting a new section for section
124-A as was originally proposed by the Law Commission in its

42nd report. 7.18 For the reasons discussed above, the section 124--A

ﬂay be substituted. 7.19 The then Law Commission had suggested in its 42nd
report that the Code should contain a provision for punishing
insults to the book of the Constitution, the national flag,
the national emblem and the national anthem. Burning of the
copies of the Constitution, desecration of the national flag
or national emblem and offering deliberate insults to the
national anthem, are not only unpatriotic acts but are also
likely to cause a disturbance of public order. As such, they

>are reprehensible enough to be made offences in the Penal

Code. Legislative competence of Parliament in the matters
is derivable from the entry relating to criminal law in the
Concurrent List and from the residuary entry in the Union
List. It could hardly be said that such a provision curtails
the freedom of expression unreasonably, and the restriction

would be clearly in the interests of public order. ~: 121 :- The above recommendation was incorporated in clause

48 of the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978. 7.21 Under this clause a new section 1248 is also sought
to be inserted. Under this new section, whoever deliberately
insults the Constitution of India or any part thereof, the
national flag, the national emblem or the national anthem, by
burning the national flag etc., shall be punishable. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report observed that there should be a
provision for punishment for insults to the Constitution,
national flag, emblem and the national anthem which may
include burning of the Constitution and deliberate insults to
the national anthem which are unpatriotic. Therefore, they

recommended the insertion of this new section. However, on

Fm' -: 122 :- the basis of those recommendations, Prevention of Insuits to
Nationai Honour Act, 1971 has been enacted. Therefore, this
new section 1248 need not be inserted again in IPC and the

same may be deieted from c1ause 48 of the B111. 7.22 The existing section 125 reads as under:- 7.24 The same recommendation was incorporated in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978. Ciause 49 of the Bi11 runs as under: Thus the recommendation for reducing the quantum of
the punishment was not accepted. It may be mentioned that in

the existing provision the punishment is prescribed "with -: 124 :- imprisonment for Iife to which fine may be added, or with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may

extend to seven years..... when there is aiready a provision for reducing the

punishment, then there is no need to reduce expressly the

upper iimit of the punishment. 7.25 In view of the above, section 125 may be amended as

proposed in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978. - N: 8.02. The constitutionaiity of section 306 was chaiienged
in Smt.Gian Kaur v State of Punjab-' Uphoiding the

constitutiona1ity of section 306, the supreme Court heid that
section 306 enacted a distinct offence which is capable of

existence independent of section 309. The Court obeerved:2

"Section 306 prescribes punishment for 'abetment of
suicide' whi1e Section 309 punishes 'attempt to
commit suicide'. Abetment of attempt to commit
suicide is outside the purview of section 306 and
it is punishabie oniy under section 309 read with section 107 , IPC. In certain other Jurisdictioni, -: 126 . even though attempt to commit suicide is not a
pena1 offence yet the abettor is made punishab1e.
The provision there provides for the punishment of
abetment of suicide as we11 as abetment of attempt
to commit suicide. Thus even where the punishment
for attempt to commit suicide is not considered
desirabie, its abetment is made a penal offence.
In other words assisted suicide and assisted
attempt to commit suicide are made punishable for
cogent reasons in the interest of society. Such a
provision is considered desirabie to also prevent
the danger inherent in the absence of such a penai

provision.'

8.03. In Engiand and Waies, the suicide Act of 1961 has
abrogated the ru1e of iaw whereby it is a crime for a person
to commit suicide (8:1). Section 2(1) of the Act imputes
criminai iiabiiity for compiicity in another's suicide. It
reads: 3.1i. But this view of Supreme Court was overruled by a
larger Bench in Smt. Gign ﬁggr v. §;ate of Punja9'° wherein
Ierma J.,(as he then was) speaking for the Court, 'he1d that

3,Rgtningm'§ case was wrongiy decided. The Court observed:" 8.12. On the question of violation of Article 14 , the
Court agreed with the view taken by Hansaria J. in

E.Ba§hinam'§ case. 8.13. Verma J. further observed that the arguments "on
the desirability of retaining such a penal provision of
punishing attempted suicide, including the recommendation for
its deletion by the Law Commission are not sufficient to
indicate that the provision _is unconstitutional being

viclative of Article 14. Even if' those facts are to weigh. -: 132

the severity of the provision is mitigated by the wide

discretion in the matter of

sentencing since there is no
requirement of awarding any minimum sentence and the sentence

of imprisonment is not even compuisory. There is aieo no

minimum fine prescribed as sentence, which aione may be the

punishment awarded on conviction under Section 309 , IPC.
This aspect is noticed in P,Bg§hinam for ho1din9 that Articie

14 is not vio1ated."'2

The Supreme Court's decision in Smt. Gian Kgyr has

8.14. thus categoricaliy affirmed that right to 1ife in Articie 21

does not inciude the right to dis. Consequentiy section 309

which penaiises attempt to commit sucide is not

unconstitutionai. 8.15. There is a schooi of thought which advocates the

decriminaiisation of the offence 'of attempt to commit

suicide. They piead for a compassionate and sympathetic

treatment for those who fai1 in their attempt to put an end

to their iives. They argue that deietion of section 309 is

not an invitation or encouragement to attempt to commit

suicide. A person induiges in the act of attempt to commit
suicide for various reasons some of which at times are beyond

his contro1.'3

8.16. On the other hand, certain deveiopments such as
rise in narcotic drug-trafficking offences, terrorism in
different parts of the country, the phenomenon of human -: 133 :- bombs, etc. have led to a rethinking on: the need to keep
attempt to commit suicide an offence. For instance, a
terrorist or drug trafficker who fails in hie/her attempt to
consume the cyanide pill and the human bomb who fails in the
attempt to kill himself or herself along with the targets of
attack, have to be charged, under section 309 and
investigations be carried out to prove the offence. These
groups of offenders under section 309 stand under a different
category than those, who due to psychological and religious

reasons, attempt to commit suicide. 3.17. Accordingly, we recommend that section 309 should
continue to be an offence under the Indian Penal Code and

clause 131 of the Bill be deleted. WV 10. 11. 12. 13.

1996 (2) Scale 881. ;g at 391. Law Commission, Fortx;$§§9nd Report.
page 243. ;g, para 16.32, page 243. (1985) Cr1.L.J. 931. (1987) Cri. L.J. 743. (1988) Cri. L.J. 549. (1994) 3 SCC 394. ;g at 429. ggggg note 1. ;g at 888. ;g at 890. Just1ce

R.A.Jahag1rdar (Retd.), " *2 135 2'

On the question of consent, the Commission had
pointed out that section 90 of IPC inciudes the term "injury"
which is of wider import. Injury inciudes any injury to
mind, body, reputation or property. The Commission, however,

did not recommend any amendment on this count. 9.03. The Commission aiso recommended that marita1 rape
shou1d be removed from the scope of Section 375 and piaced as

a separate offence. The Commission obeerved:°

"The exception in Section 375 provides that sexuai
intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife
not being under 15 years of age is not rape. The
punishment for statutory rape by the husband is the
same when the wife is under 12 years of age but
when she is between 12 and 15 years of age the
punishment is mi1d, being imprisonment upto two
years, or fine or both. Naturaiiy, the
prosecutions for this offence are very rare. we
think, it wouid be desirabie to take this offence
aitogether out of the ambit of section 375 and not
ito ca11 it rape even in a technicai sense. The
punishment for the offence aiso may be provided in

a separate section." 9.
separated

observed: O4. 05.

The Commission considered the position of legally

wife vis--a--vis the offence of rape. It was

"Under the exception, a husband cannot be guilty of

raping his wife if she is above fifteen

years of

age. This exception is to take note of one special

situation, namely when the husband and wife are

living apart under a decree of judicial separation

or by mutual agreement. In such a case, the

marriage technically subsists and if the husband
has sexual intercourse with her against her will or
without her consent, he cannot be charged with the
offence of rape. This does not appear to be right. we consider that, in such circumstances, sexual

intercourse by a man with his wife without her

consent will be punishable as rape."'

Explanation II as recommended by the Commission is

as follows: amendment

The Forty--Second Report had recommended

in Section 375 on the following lines: Explanation I. - Penetration is sufficient to
constitute the sexual intercourse necessary to the

offence of rape. Explanation II. -- A woman living separately from
her husband under a decree of judicial separation
or by mutual agreement shall be deemed not to be

his wife for the purpose of this section."5

9.07. The existing Section 375 stipulated a maximum
sentence of life or imprisonment of either description for 10
years for rape. The Commission suggested that it should be

rigorous imprisonment for a term upto 14 years. 9.08. The Commission recommended the incorporation of

3 Sections 376A and 376B. Section 376A distinguished sexual

éintercourse between a wife of 12 to 15 years of age and a

 

sulfa of less than 12 years of age, sexual intercourse with

»the wife over 15 years of age without her consent not being

.an offence. The Commission recommended rigorous imprisonment

upto 7 years if the wife was under 12 years and in any other

case, imprisonment upto 2 years of either description. 9.09. Section 3768 made i11icit intercourse with a gir1
under 16 years but not under 12 years of age even with her

consent punishab1e with imprisonment of either description

upto 7 years. 9.10. The Commission added that it sha11 be a defence to
a charge under this section for the accused to prove that he,
in good faith, beiieved the gir1 to be above sixteen years of

age.'

9.11. The Forty--Second Report's signa1' contribution to
the reform of rape Taws was the introduction of the concept
of custodia1 rape. The Commission recommended the addition
of sections 376C,376D and 376E deaiing with custodia1 rape by
a pub1ic servant or by a superintendent etc. 'of a women's or
chi1dren's institution, and by a manager of a hospitai with a

woman patient suffering from menta1 disorder respective1y.'
9.12. The provisions on rape Taw remained unamended, as

the Indian Pena1 Code Amendment Bi11 cou1d not be passed due

to the disso1ution of the Lok Sgghg in 1979. 9,i3. "In the interregnum the~ Supreme Court of India
decided some cases which took a restricted view of the scope
of the offence of' rape and acquitted the accused. The
of oris 7 and

Ig§g_ﬁgm v. §tate of Maharashtra.' The iatter case popu1ar1y
known as the Mathura Rage case invoived the rape of a yong

re1evant decisions are Prgtgp uiggg v. gir1 aged between 14-16 years of age by two police constabie
in the poiice station. The Bombay high Court reversed the
order of acquittal of the accused by the Session Court and
sentenced them to rigorous imprisonent of varying terms. The
High Court came to the conc1usion that the poiicemen had
"taken advantage of the fact that Mathura was invoived in a
comp1aint fiied by her brother, and she was a1one in the deed
hour of the night " in a po1ice station. This proved that
she could not in any probabi1ity, have consented to
intercourse. The Supreme Court after assessing the evidence
on record conciuded that the circumstantiai evidence was such
that it did not Tead to "reasonab1e evidence of guiit" and
reversed the Bombay High Court decision and acquitted the
accused. This 1ed to four 1aw teachers writing an Open
Letter to the Chief Justice of India criticising the
judgment. The Open Letter generated nationwide protests from
women's organisations and different sections of the Indian
society.9 Their coiiective demand was for reform of the iaw
on rape. The Union Government responded to the pubiic

campaign and referred the matter of reforming rape iaws to

the Law Commission. F

E 9.14. 141 :- definition of consent and to rape of gir1s be1ow the minimum
age. It a1so took into account some of the recommendations

the Forty Second Report. incorporated in The Commission had

dispensed with the suggestions in the ear1ier Report which

had characterized rape as - 1. rape proper; 2. rape with chi1d--wife and
sexual 3. Rape i.e. intercourse with the gir1

between 12-16 years of age, with her consent. The reasons given by the Commission for discarding the above
categorisation were:'°
"...the Commission now fee1s that such a

restructuring would be out of tune with the current

thinking on the question of triai of offenders for
rape and, therefore, structure of Section 375
shou1d not be a1tered. Since the making of the
recommendation by the Commission in its eariier

Report, there has been a radica1 and revoiutionary

change in the approach to the offence of rape; its

enormity is frequent1y brought into prominence and -: 142 :- heightened by the revolting and gruesome
circumstances in which the crime is committed; the
case law has blurred the essential ingredients of
the offence and introduced instability into the
previously well established law bearing on the
offence of rape. The Commission feels that
restructuring will produce uncertainty. and
distortion in section 375, which should in its
opinion, retain its present logical and coherent

structure." Consequently, the Commission recommended the omission of
Section 375A and Section 3758. Instead, the Commission
recommended leaving rape of child--wife (S.375A) in the
general Section 375 instead of placing it in a separate
section. Section 3753 which dealt with rape on a girl
between 12-16 years of age with her consent was omitted
altogether. Further, the Commission retained Sections
3760,3760 and 376E which dealt with custodial rape; but

renumbered them as Sections 376A,376B and 3760. 9.16. on the question of consent, the Commission observed
that they would not only include the suggestions made in the
earlier Report» but suggested further amendments which would
strengthen the concept of "free consent" for the purposes of

Section 375. The Commission felt that the term "consent" was

inadequate and should be substituted by the phrase "free and

voluntary consent". The Commission observed:" The Commission proceeded to say: The Commission further stated:'1

"The modifications recommended by us in the third
ciause vitiated consent not on1y when a woman is
put in fear of death or hurt, but a1so when she is
put in fear of any "injury" being caused to any
person (inciuding herse1f) in body, mind,
reputation or property and aiso when her consent is
obtained by criminai intimidation, that is to say

by any words or acts intended or caiculated to put

9.17. age of consent. offence
since the framing of IPC . presented -: 144 :- her in fear of any injury or danger to herseif or

to any person in whom she is interested or when she

is threatened with any injury to her reputation or

property or to a reputation of any one in whom she

is interested. Thus, 'if the consent is obtained

after giving the woman a threat of spreading fa1se

and scanda1ous rumours about her character or

destruction of her property or injury vto her
chiidren or parents or by ho1ding out other threats
of injury to her person, reputation or property,
that consent wi11 aiso not be under

consent the

third ciause as recommended to be amended." The Commission made significant recommendations on
The age of consent as appiicabie to the
under Section 375 has been amended severa1 times

The 84th Report has graphica11y

in the form of a chart which is given be1ow:'3

CHART
Age of Age men-- Minimum
consent tioned in age of
under the Exception marriage
Year 8.375, to 5.375, under
5th I.P.C . the Chi1d
ciause, Marriage
I.P.C. Restraint
Act,1929
1860 10 yrs. 10 yrs. - 1891 12 yrs 12 yrs. -- (Act 10 of 1891)
(after the amendment

_of IPC )

4: 145 :- Efafter the amendment
gbf IPC )
. 1929 14 yrs. 13 yrs. 14 yrs. :(after the passing of
§the~Chi1d Marriage Act)

1940 16 yrs. 15 yrs. 15 yrs. (after the amendment

of the Penal Code
and the Chi1d Marriage
Act)
1978 ..... 16 yrs 15 yrs. 18 yrs. 9.18. As may be seen from the chart, the minimum age of
marriage for giris has been increased to 18 years after the
amendment of the Chiid Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 in 1978.
The Commission recommended that "since marriage with a' gir1
be1ow eighteen years is prohibited ... sexuai intercourse

with a gir1_be1ow eighteen years shouid a1so be prohibited." 9.19. The 84th Report did not recommend any changes in
section 376 which provides punishment for the offence of
rape. The Commission was of the view that judicial

discretion be not fettered by prescribing a minimum sentence. 9.20. The 84th report by introducing a broader concept of
"misconception of fact" has e1iminated any examination of
moraiity or the sexuai antecedents of the victim of rape.
Section 375, fourthiy (b) a11ows this under a broader

misconception of fact which inciudes the narrower mistake of

identity. 9.21. consequent the

on recommendations of the Law

commission in its 84th Report, the Government

Lok Sagha
amend, in;g;_gli§, the Indian Penai

introduced in

the the

Criminai Law (Amendment) B111, 1980 to

Code. The Government

accepted the foiiowing recommendations of the Law Commission: The chief features of which, so far as the offence

of rape in IPC was concerned, were: £3 9.26. According1y sections 375 and 376 were amended and

new sections 376A,376B and 376C were inserted. A11 the

important recommendations of the Law Commission have been

incorporated. The provisions read as fo11ows: or (iii) on a woman in his custody or in
the custody of a poiice officer

subordinate to him; or (b) being a public servant, takes
advantage of his officiai position and

commits rape on a woman in his custody -: 151 :- as such pubiic servant or in the custody
of a pubiic servant supordinate to him; Of' (c) being on the management or on the
staff of a Jaii, remand home or other
piace of custody estabiished by or under
any 1aw for the time being in force or
of a women's or chi1dren's institution
takes advantage of his officiai position
and commits rape on any inmate of -such
jai1, remand home, piace or institution;
or (d) being on the management or on the
staff of a hospita1, takes advantage of
his officia1 position and commits rape

on a woman in the hospita1; or (e) commits rape on a woman knowing her
to be pregnant; or (f) commits rape on a woman when she is

under tweive years of age; or (g) commits gang rape, -: 152 :- shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than ten years but

which may be for life and shall also be liable to

fine; Provided that the court may, for adequate and
special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment,
impose a sentence of imprisonment of either

description for a term of less than ten years. Explanation I.-Where a woman is raped by one or
more in a group of persons acting in furtherance of
their common intention, each of the persons shall
be deemed to have committed gang rape within the

meaning of this sub--section. Explanation 2.-"Women's or children's institution" 376B. Intercourse by public servant with woman in
his custody.- whoever, being a public servant,
takes advantage of his official position and
induces or seduces, any woman, who is in his
custody as such public servant or in the custody of
a public servant subordinate to him, to have sexual
intercourse with him, such sexual intercourse not
amounting to the offence of rape, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to five years and shall also be

liable to fine. 376C. Intercourse 'by superintendent of Jail,
remand home, etc.- whoever, being the
superintendent or manager of a jail, remand home or
other place of custody established by or under any
law for the time being in force or of a women's or

children's institution takes advantage of his

ax: --r -: 154 :- official position and induces or seduces any fema1e
inmate of such jai1, remand home, p1ace or
institution to have sexua1 intercourse' with him.
such sexua1 intercourse not amounting to the
offence of rape, shaii be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to five years and shaii aiso be 1iab1o

to fine. Expianation i.--"superintendent" in reiation to a
jaii, remand home or other piace of custody or a
women's or chi1dren's institution inciudes a person
hoiding any other office in such jail, remand homo.
piace or institution by virtue of which he can

exercise any authority or controi over its inmates. Expianation 2.-The expression "women's or
chi1dren's institution" sha11 have the same meaning
as in Expianation 2 to sub-section(2) of section 376. Now we sha11 examine the recommendations gof the

Nationai Commission for women(NCw) and other suggestions made

in response to the Questionnaire. Foiiowing are the

recommendations of the Nationai Commission for women: It is aiso recommended that three new sections,

section 376E, section 376F and Section 376G be incorporated

in the Indian Penal Code . Section 376E: Offence under Section 376A to

Section 376D against chiidrenz

_., _ _ v" i 4." W'.'»-wi

9D28C -: 1515:" The De1hi State Commission for women in its Report
Situation of Girls and Women in Dejhi (1997) has pointed that
the "rate of rape" in deihi is twice as high as in the whole
country. During 1993 as many as 233 rape cases were reported
which rose to 321 in 1994, to 362 in 1995 and to 470 in 1996.
An anaiysis of 1996 crime data showed that in 88 per cent of
the rape cases reiatives and acquaintances were invoived and

in 89 per cent of the cases the crime was committed at home. Q . The Report also points out that 60 per cent of the reported: The present definition requires proof of penetration by penis

and lack of consent by the complainant. Consent plays a

crucial part in a rape trial

A.)- . ;.._.~V_- ,1--. : 9.32. The proponents of thist view 'advocate that the

sections of IPC dea1ing with rape (sections 375 and 376) and

sections 354 and 509 be repealed and be substituted by

provisions on "Sexua1 Assauit" - to be defined broad1y to

inc1ude a11 forms of sexuai vio1ence on women inciuding rape. 9.33. After giving considerab1e thought to the point of

view referred to above, the Law Commission is of the opinion

that the offence of rape inciuding custodia1 rape and its

punishment be retained in IPC subject to the modifications

stated be1ow in para 9.34. 9.34. The Law Commission recommends that c1ause 'Thirdiy'

in section 375 be amended on the fo11owing 1ines: The Law Commission, however, does not endorse the
change proposed by NCW in the Exception to Section 375
(sexual intercourse by a man with his wife) increasing age
from 15 years to 18 years. Consequentiy, there need not be
any amendment to section 198(6) Cr.P.C. as suggested by the

Nationai Commission for Women. The Law Commission is of the opinion that the
Offence of chiid rape and its punishment is provided for

under the existing Section 376(2)(f). Consequentiy, the -: 162 :- incorporation of a new sub--eection (3) to Section 376, as

recommended by the National Commission for women, is not

ca11ed for. 9.35. To deai with the issue of increasing sexual

vioience on women and fema1e chiidren, the Law Commission

recommends that the offence of sexuai assau1t be added to the
existing offence of outraging the modesty of women in Section
354 and punishment be increased from two years to five years. Accordingiy, Section 354 be amended on the foiiowing 1inec: than rape on women and femaie chiidren. The Law Commission is further of the view that the
offence of eve teasing fa11s within the scope or Section 509
and there is no need for a new section 376F as recommended by
the Nationai Commission for Women. However, the Law
Commission feeis that the quantum of punishment be increased
from 1 year to 3 years and finel Accordingiy, we 'recommend

that Section 509 be amended in the fo11owing manner: '-z 164 :- Exp1anation.-- where a marriage has been dissolved
by the decree of a competent court under an
enactment but the parties are, by virtue of a
provision of the enactment under which their
marriage is dissolved prohibited from re-marrying
within a specified period, then, for the purposes
of this section, the marriage shaii,
notwithstanding its dissoiution, be deemed to

subsist during that period. Exception. -- The offence is not committed by any
person who contracts the 1ater_marriage during the
1ife of the spouse by eariier marriage, if, at the
time of the 1ater marriage, such spouse sha11 have
been continua11y absent from such person for seven
years and sha11 not, within that period, have heard
of by such person as being a1ive, provided the
person contracting: the iater marriage inform the
person with whom it is contracted of the rea1 state
of facts so far as the same are within his or her

knowiedgs." »

The Commission felt that the punishment for bigamy
was "unnecessariiy high" and so be reduced from seven years

to three years.'7

9.39. The Commission aiso recommended the reduction of
punishment for the aggravated form of bigamy, under section
495 name1y where bigamy is accompanied by the concealment of
the fact of former marriage from the person with whom the
subsequent marriage is contracted, from ten years to seven

years.'°

9.40. But the IPC Bi11 (ciause 198) has not accepted the
recommendation of reduction of punishment for bigamy under

section 494. -:;i66.:- For prosecution for bigamy to succeed, prosecution

must show first of a11 that at the time of second marriage,

there was a va1id subsisting marriage. where proof of either

marriage is unsatisfactory, there would be no conviction. Exp1anation I to Section

494 in the Bi11 has introduced a

deeming fiction. It deems the second marriage vaiid despite

1ega1 defects in contracting, ceiebrating or performing such

marriage. By this, the accused cannot take the defence of

HOD

himseif from the c1utches of the offence of bigamy. The incorporation of this

deeming provision in

Expianation was

in consequence of the judicia1 decisions on
The

ﬁtgte of Mgng[g§ntrg" he1d that

of bigamy was

the scope of section 17 of the Hindu Marriage Act,1955. Supreme Court in ﬁhggggg v. the offence

not proved uniess it was

estab1ished that the second marriage was ce1ebrated with

proper ceremonies and due form. This conciusion was reached

on the ground that 8.17 of the Hindu Marriage Act , had used

the word "soiemnized". Accordingly the court heid that it
was essentiai for the purpose of section 17, that the
marriage to which section 494 appiies on account of the
provisions of the Act, shou1d have been ceiebrated with

performance of ceremonies in the second marriage to save_ -: 167 :- proper ceremonies and due form. As the 1aw requires no
specific ceremonies but recognises ceremonies of marriage
according to custom, it becomes extremeiy difficu1ts to
determine which ceremony or ceremonies were rea11y essential.
Bhaurao decision was reiterated in two subsequent decisions
of the Supreme Court in geyg1_3gm v. ﬁ.E, Agmjnjgtggtjgg 2°
and Priya Baia v. Surgsh Chandrg.2' Consequentiy a great
burden is cast on the prosecution to show that the second
marriage is performed with a11 due formaiities. This burden
in many cases cannot be discharged satisfactoriiy to prove
the offence of bigamy. Therefore, it was fe1t necessary to
add the Expianation. The Committee on the Btatus of Woen in
its Report "Towards Eaua1ity" (1975) had recommended the
incorporation of Exp1anation to Section 17 of the Hindu
Marriage Act that an omission to perform some essentiai
ceremonies by parties sha11 not be construed to mean that the
offence of bigamy was not committed. This recommendation has
aiso found a piace in Exp1anation (1) to Section 494 in the

Bi11. Expianation 2 has been added to section 494 by which it is
made c1ear that where the re1evant divorce 1aw prohibits
rs-marriage of the parties within a specified period after
the decree of dissoiution, such re--marrisge amounts to

bigamy. Explanation 2 is as fo11ows: The Supreme Court in Saria Mudga1's22 case heid

that conversion from a monogamous reiigion (Hinduism) to a
poiygamous reiigion (Is1am) for the purpose of second
marriage, during the subsistence of first marriage, wou1d
make the second marriage vioiative of justice, equity and
good conscience etc. The Court a1so held that the apostate
husband wou1d be guiity of the offence of bigamy. The Court
has thus removed the uncertainty as regards the effect of

conversion on marriage. 9.42. we recommend that another Expianation, Expianation
3 be added to section 494 incorporating the principie 1aid
down by the Suprqaeme Court in the Saria Mudga1's case on the

foiiowing iines to put the matter beyond doubt: III. u'

9.43. In the First Report on the Draft Indian Pena! code.
adu1tery was not made an offence. However, the First Law
Commission in its Second Report on the Draft Indian Pnnai
Code, after giving due consideration to the subject, came to

the conciusion that it was not advisab1e to exc1ude this

offence from the Code.23

9.44. The offence of adultery under section 497 is very
limited in scope in comparison to the misconduct of adultery
in divorce (civii) proceedings. The offence is committed
oniy by a man who has sexuai intercourse with the. wife of
another man without the 1atter's consent or connivance. The
wife is not punishabie for being an aduiteress or even as an
abetter. Punishment is imprisonment of either description

for a term up to five years or with fine or with both. 9.45. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report recommnnded
the retention of section 497 in its present form with the

modification that, even the wife, who has sexuai reiations

with a person other than her husband, shouid be made»

punishabie for aduitery. The Commission aiso recommended

that five years' imprisonment is "unreai and not ca11ed for -: 170 :- n any circumstances and should be reduced to two yeare".3'
'he Commission recommended that the section may be revised as
'ollows:-- Clause 199 of the Indian Penal Code Amendment R111. 1978 reads as Section 497: IV. UNNATURAL OFFENCES

9.48. Section 377 deais with unnaturai offences Tike
sodomy, buggery and bestiaiity. This section was amended in
1955 making the punishment more stringent to one of
imprisonment for iife or with imprisonment of either

description for a term up to ten years and fine. Section 377

reads as: 9.49. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report had
recommended that cases of bestia1ity shouid be regarded as
pathoiogicai manifestations to be ignored by the criminal

law. 9.50. The Commission, however, feit that "Indian Society,
by and iarge, disapproves of homo-sexuaiity and this
disapprovai is strong enough to justify it being treated as a
criminai offence even where adu1ts induige in it in private",
and observed that "Buggery" may continue as an offence
punishabie Iess severeiy than at present but, where it is
committed by an adult on a minor boy or girl, the punishment
be higher. 80 the Commission had irecommended that section

377 be revised as fo11ows:~
"377. Buggery-- whoever vo1untari1y has carnai
intercourse against the order of nature with any
man or woman sha11 be punished with imprisonment of
ieither description for a term which may extend to

two years, or with fine or with both; and where such offence is :committed by a person" V. CHILD SELUAL ABUSE

9.52. Child sexual abuse (CSA) is considered one of the
'new' epidemics of the last decade. CSA could be any kind of
"physical or mental violation of the child with sexual intent
usually by an elder person who is in possession of trust or
power viz--a--viz the child".27 The experience may vary from an
adult exposure of genitals to the child or to persuade the
child to do the same, the adult touching the child's genital

or making the child to touch his own, involving the child in '--: 176:- {hornography -- both printed and visual, having oral, vaginal
Vor anal intercourse with the child, making verbal or other
sexual suggestions or indecent overtures. In .addition,
.fondi1ng or fingering, touching or voyeurism or any such

iattempt could also be CSA.25

9.53. According to the statistics reported in Crime in
India, of the total victims of rape cases, children accounted
for more than 25 per cent. There is an increasing trend

since 1990 as regards child rape. While 3,393 cases of child rape were reported in
1993, it increased to 3,986 in 1994. Giving the state--wise
incidence of child rape, the Report says Madhya Pradesh led
in reporting the highest number of 809 child rape cases,
followed by Uttar Pradesh (538), Rajasthan (205) and Delhi
(206) in 1994. Among the cities, Delhi and Mumbai reported
more victims of child rape in the age group below 10 years

and also in the age group of 10-16 years.?9

while conducting the study of CSA in Delhi, the
Delhi Police found that information regarding the offences of
molestation or outraging of modesty (8.354 IPC ) and unnatural
Sex offences (8.377 IPC ) committed on children below 16 years
was not readily available. Information was collected for
1994 wherein a total number of 291 cases was recorded out of

which 69 girls were below 16 years.(31%). 'In respect of -: 177 :- ;nnatural offences, out of 24 cases, there were 22 boys and 2
jirls indicating that 95.9% of the victims, were children
Selow 16 yeare.3°

It is difficult to get hard data on the extent of
§SA in the country. But there is a silver lining in the
worizon. some NGOs have undertaken studies on' CSA and
areliminary findings are none too happy. Samvada, a
Bangalore based NGO found, in a study of 348 college girls,
that 47 per cent of students had been subjected to sexual
abuse. About 45 per cent had experienced such abuse before
the age of 14. The most common offender was a known male
family member. Similar are the findings of Sakshi, a Delhi
based NGO in a study made of 357 girls of government and
private schools. It was found that 63 per cent of the
children had suffered some form of sexual abuse, about 22 per
cent suffered serious sexual abuse and in 29 per cent of the
cases, the abuse was by a person whom they trusted fully. In
their analysis of 19 cases of CSA in 1995 it was found that
in majority of the cases, the victims were children between

one and twelve years. 9.54. The Constitution of India provides special
Protection to children. Article 15(3) confers powers on the

State to make special provisions for women and children. .Article 39(f) provides that children are given opportunities

and facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in

conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and -: 178 :- E
%youth are protected against exploitation gand against moral
and material abandonment. This provision was added to the
constitution by the Constitution. (Forty-fourth Amendment
Act ), 1978. Article 45 mandates the State to provide for
free and compulsory education for all children until 'they

complete the age of 14 years. 9.55. Since 1945 the welfare and rights of children have
been a matter of great concern for the United Nations. One
of the first acts of the General Assembly was to establish
the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). In 1959, the
Declaration on The Rights of the Child was drafted which has
been serving as a guide post to private and public action in
the interest of children on the basis "that mankind owes to
the child the best it has to give". This Declaration
ultimately led to the drafting of the Convention on The
Rights of The Child which was adopted unanimously by the
General Assembly on 20th November, 1989. 187 States have
ratified this Convention. The Convention came into force in
India on 11th January, 1993. Some of the provisions of the
Convention specifically deal with the protection of children
from sexual offences and violation, in particular Articles
34,35 and 36- Article 34 of the vconvention imposes an
obligation on the State parties to protect the child from all
forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. For these
Durposes the States are mandated to take appropriate measures
to prevent (i) the inducement or coercion of children to

engage in any unlawful sexual activity; (ii) the exploitative ' --: 179 :- ~_w _v r." use of children in prostitution or other unlawful sexual
igractices and (iii) the exploitative use of children in
;pornographic performances and materials. Article 35 requires
Estates to take all measures to prevent the abduction of the
sale of or traffic in children for any purpose or in any
'form. Article 36 mandates states to protect the children
against all other forms of exploitation prejudicial to any

aspects of the child's welfare; 9.56. So far as rape of children under 12 years is
concerned, the existing section 376(2)(f) provides a minimum
mandatory sentence of 10 years rigorous imprisonment which

may extend to life and fine. 9.57. To counter the evil of all other forms of sexual
abuse of female childreny the Law Commission's
recommendations for amendment of section 354 as stated in
para 9.35. in Part--IV should be adequate. In addition, the
Law Commission's recommendation in para 9.52 of Part--IV for
aggravated punishment for the commission of unnatural
offences under section 377 IPC,: on both male and female
persons under eighteen years of age by adults would cover

child sexual abuse on children, both male and female. 9.58. In the opinion of the Law Commission, the existing
section 376(2)(f), and the Law Commission's recommendations
for amendment of sections 354 and 377 are adequate to deal

with child sexual abuse. Consequently, the Law Commission -: 180 :- :does not recommend the incorporation of new section 354A as

suggested in clause 146 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment)

S3111. 9.59 Sexual--child abuse may be committed in various
forms such as sexual intercourse, carnal intercourse and
sexual assaults. The cases involving penile péhetration into
vagina are covered under section 375 of the IPC. If there is
any case of penile oral penetration and penile penetration
into anus, section 377 IPC dealing with unnatural offences,
i.e., carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any
man, woman or animal, adequately takes care of them. If acts
such as penetration of finger or any inanimate object into
vagina or anus are committed against a woman or a female
child, the provisions of the proposed section 354 IPC
whereunder a more severe punishment is also prescribed can be
invoked and as regards the male child, the penal provisions
of the IPC concerning 'hurt', 'criminal force' or 'assault'
as the case may be, would be attracted. A distinction has to
be naturally maintained between sexual assault/use of
criminal force falling under section 354, sexual offlnces
falling under section 375 and unnatural offences falling
under section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. It may not be
appropriate to bring unnatural offences punishable under section 377 IPC or mere sexual assault or mere sexual use of
criminal force which may attract section 354 IPC within the
ambit of 'rape' which is a distinct and graver offence with a

definite connotation. It is needﬂess _to mention that an)

H..- -4- _ -.._.%.jL_ , -: 181 :- attempt to commit any of these offences is also punishable by
viftue of section 511 IPC. Therefore, any other or more

changes regarding this 1aw may not be necessahy. .- Q1'! 10. 11. 12. -: 182 :- EQQIﬂQI§§

Law Commission, gighgx Fourth Report, para 1.2,
page 1 (1980). See Susan Brownmi11er, Against our W111 M§n.ﬂmgg

ggg_3agg (1990); Lotika Sarkar, "Rape' A Human

Rights versus a Patriarcha1

Interpretation," I

Lndian gourna1 gf Ggnggc §§ggi§§ 69 (1994); AQHSS ,

F1avia
"Protecting Women against V1o1ence?" 27
Economic and Po11t1c§l Week1y (EPW) 19 (1992); also

by the same author,

ta e Gender nd the r1

of Law Reform (1995) Lorenne Clark and Debra Lewis,
Rape - The Price of Qoercive Sexua1ity (1977). Law Commission, Forty Second Report, para 16.115,
page 277. ggig. 1q., para 16.117. pages 277-278. ;g., para 16.120, page 273. AIR 1977 SC 1307. AIR 1979 SC 185. See Vasudha

Dhagamwar. Law. Power

and Jugsigg
237-287 (2nd ed. 1992). Law Commission. E1'QhtY..F.Q1.H.'.th.B9DQfT'C-. aupca note 1.
para 2.21, page 9. ;g., para 2.8, page 6. ;g., para 2.9, page 6. '13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21 22. 23. 24. -: 183 :- ;g., para 2.19, page 8. see, "Upeurge in Crime against women: Report",
Hinge (De1hi ed.) 9.12.1996. See " De1hi's Shame: . women Most unsafe," Forty Second Report on the Indian Pena1 Codg, para

20.18, page 327 (1971). ize. ;27. .28. 29. 30. -: 184 :- AIR 1985 SC 1618; 1985 (Supp) SCC 137. Chiid Sexuai Abuse iimerature by 'Sakshi' New

Delhi. Schwartz, Horovitz and Cardarelii Qhiid Seggal

Abuse 58-59 (Sage Publications 1990)

Amod Kanth, "CSA ' Legai and Investigative,
Perspective", in Sheeia Barse (Ed) guild
victims'Rights: Report of Internationai Confecgnce
on Chiid Sex Abuse, Victim Protective Investigation

and Tria1 Procedure 11 at 13(1996). See Eipneer (Deihi ed.) dated 7.11.1996, page 3. See a1so "Incestuous Father Poisons Pregnant
Daughter to Death," Lndian Exgress - Express

Newsiine (Deihi ed.) 3.12.1996. CHAPTER-X

ABDUCTION INCIDENTAL T0 HIJACKING

The Indian Pena1 Code has been-spoken of as a model
piece of 1egis1ation as the premier Code of Crimina1 1aw, and
as the monument of the great genius of Lord Macaulay under
whose supervision it was constructed. The Code dea1s with

territoria1 as we11 as extraterritoria1 crimes. Section 4 extends the Code to extraterritoria1
offences. According1y, the provisions of the Code app1y a1so
to any offence committed by any person on any ship or

aircraft registered in India wherever it may be. To deai with the prob1em of "Piracy" which was very

common in the 1ast Century, two specia1 1egis1ations were

enacted name1y:-- But the framers of the Code never thought about the
crime of "Air--Piracy" which is common1y known as

"Air--HiJacking" now a days. So the Code confines to the -: 186 :- crimes of the abduction of person oniy but not the abduction
of the aircraft or vehic1es. Hence a need has been felt to

inc1ude the crime of "Air--Hijacking" in the Code. 3RESENT POSITION IN THE IPC 10.02. Section 362 of the Indian Penai Code is deaiing

with the abduction which runs as under: The ingredients necessary to constitute an

ibduction of a person are- i. that the person must have been made to go
from any piace, and 2. that such going must have been -- (a) under compulsion by the use of
force, or (b) induced by deceitfui means - (1)Abduction by itseif is not

punishable as a substantive offence. (2) But if it fa11s within the
categories deait with by sections 364 to

369 except 366A, 3668 and 368 by reason

Of course,

of "Abduction" of
Air-hijacking, the
Moreover, at the
Air--Hijacking, there

either as passengers

But 1ega11y,

crime

crime was never imaginated by the framers of the Code. as

society progressed, -: 187 :-- has increased. we11 as

In the recent past, the new crime of air

Internationai

'Air-hijacking" in the IPQ

hijacking

Despite the steps taken by the countries as

Civii Aviation Organisation (ICAO)

there is no reduction in the incidence of hijacking. ._.__-_ 1

The Law Commission of India in its ietter dated
»26th December 1995 sought the suggestions to tackle the
Tprobiem of hijacking of aircrafte or other vehicies. Item T3

'of the ietter says that- the cases of hijacking of aircraft and vehicies
in recent past have been gaiore in parts of our
country ridden with terrorism. In view of this, it
is fe1t that the hijacking of an aircraft or
vehicie be made punishabie under the Indian Penai
Code. Do you think that there shouid be a uniform
punishment for both the offences or it should vary
according to gravity of the offence and be
deterrent punishment in case of hijacking of an

aircraft on board or in f1ight?" it

If

Esection 362A. In the questionnaire, the option has been suggested

whether there shouid be a uniform punishment for both the

offences or it shou1d vary according to the gravity of the

pffence and be deterrent punishment in case of hijacking of
~1 .4 . an aircraft on board or in fiight. ys. EARLIER REPORT (42nd) or THE LAW COMMISSION

10.04. The Law Commission of India has submitted its 42nd

Report in June 1971. In the said report (Item 16.96 p.296),

the problem of abduction incidentiy to hijacking was

discussed. The Commission had received the suggestion that,

to cover the crime of hijacking of aircraft or other vehicle,
an amendment may be made so as to punish those who indirectly

cause persons to be transported to a piace which is not their

intended destination. In other words, extradition was

sought. The need for such amendment was emphasised on the
ground that the compuision in such cases, at Teast so far as
the passengers are concerned, is indirect. However, the Law
Commission expressed its view that such cases couid be

regarded as fa11ing within the Section 362, notwithstanding

the indirect nature of the compuision and therefore, no

amendment is necessary. Nonetheiess, IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978 made an

Vﬁttempt to inciude the crime of "Air-hijacking in a new

r io ' i : Explanation-- In this section- (i) the period during which an aircraft
is in flight shall be deemed to include
any period from the moment when power is
applied for the purpose of the aircraft
taking off on a flight until the moment
when the landing run, if any, at the

termination of that flight ends; (ii) the. word "vehicle" include any
vessel but does not include an

aircraft." |0.06. Apart from the above, the following offences are

also contained in the Bill: However, this ciause does not deai with the

mischief intended to be committed with the private aircraft. II. To substitute of section 105 IPC (ciause 37 of the B111)

"C1ause 37 of the Bi11 for substituting section 105

if the IPC runs as under: -: 193 :4 (b).... (c) against mischief, crimina1 trespass, hijacking
of aircraft, or sabotage, as 1ong as the offender

continues in the commission of the offence." III. To substitute sections 426 to 432 and 434 to 440 of

the IPC: (ciauses 179 and 180 of the Bi11) -- In Ciause 179, it is proposed to substitute Sections 426 to 432 of the IPC. Simiiariy, it is proposed in
ciause 180 to substitute Sections 434 to 440. The most
important proposed section in the Bi11 reiating to the

Mischief of Aircraft runs as under:- 10.07. The IPC (Amendment) B111, 1978, though passed by
the Rajya Sabha, but cou1d not become an. Act due to
disso1ution of the then Lok Sabha. In the meantime, the
prob1em of "Air Hijacking" was increased and it was felt
urgentiy to have an effective piece of Tegislation to daa1
with the burning prob1em. Therefore, two principal Acts came
into force in 1982 and after amendments the Acts are known as

under: The Anti-Hijacking Act . 1982

10.08. This Act was enacted to give effect to the
Convention for the Suppression' of UnTawfu1 Seizure of
Aircraft and for matters connected therewith. The said Act

(No 65/1982) came into existence on 15th November 1982. Section 3 of the Act explains the crime- of

hijacking" as under- Section 4 has prescribed the punishment for the

"rims of hijacking. It says that whoever commits the offence

if hijacking sha11 be punished with imprisonment '

 
 

'6: Ibg SuQpr§§§ign 9: un]gwfu1 Agtg Aggin§§ ﬁaiatx gr
Qivii Aviation Act. isgz A

30.10. The said Act was enacted to give effect to the

 
 

Convention for the Suppression of Uniawfui acts Against the
Safety of Civil Aviation and for matters connected therewith. _his Act came into force on 15th November 1982. Section 3 of the Act defines the offence committing
wio1ence on board an aircraft in fiight, etc. Section 3 runs

as under - -: 193 :-'

(2) whoever attempts to commit, or abets the
commission of, any offence under subésection (1)
sha11 a1so be deemed to have committed such offoce
and sha11 be punishab1e with the punishment

provided for such offence." iO.11. This Act was amended by an Amendment Act (No.14/94)

'and Section 3A was added which explains the mischief too. It

After Section 3 of the Princip1e Act, the foliowing
Esoctions sha11 be inserted, name1y:- 3(2) whoever attempts to commit, or abets the
commission of, any offence under sub--section (1)
sha11 a1so be deemed to have committed such offence

and sha11 be punished for such offence." The Section 9A was atso inserted in the Principie
Act and accordingiy the Designated Court sha11 presume,
un1ess the contrary is proved that the accused had committed

such offence mentioned in the Act. Thus, it is crystai c1ear that this Special Act is
dea1ing about the mischief to aircraft and its operation in
an effective manner, and certain1y in a better manner than
proposed section 432 in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11 of 1978

(C1ause -179). Thus these two speciai 1egis1ations are sufficient
for dealing with the offences reiating Hijacking, Safety, and

mischief of Civi1 Aviation in an effective manner. Sgeciai Legisiation vis-asvis Indian Pena] Cggg

10.12. For the framers of the Code, it was impossib1e to

make the Code exhaustive of a11 offences. Section 5 of the

:Code is important and has' wise1y 1eft a11 pre--existing,

Speciai, or 1oca1 1aws. The Code deals on1y with genera1 -: 200 :f

pffences. and it cannot cover the§offences which are covered" (Also double jeopardy Article' 20 (2) of the

Constitution). gg But this, of course, assumed, that there is nothing
in the one to exclude the'operation of the other. In other
yards, where a special or local Act prescribes its own

penalties they are presumed to be exhaustive, unless there is

.anything in the Act to save general law. Moreover, it is

well settled law that where an Act is punishable both under
the code as well as under _a special or local law, the
preferable course is to convict under the special law and not
under the code, both because specialia Qeneralibus derogant,
as well as because the special Acts are primarily constituted

to punish such delinquencies. Moreover, it is proposed in clause 3 of the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 to substitute section 5 of the IPC as

under: Problem of hijacKing_of aircraft or vehicles' sum
22; 10.14. The existing general provisions in the IPC cover

moving of any property unlawfully amounting to theft and when
a force is used it may become robbery and if committed by
five persons or more it amounts to dacoity. But in view of
new trends of crime like hijacking of aircraft or vehicles,

in 1978 Bill certain provisions are sought to be included and --: 202 :- Vi . . . . . hijacking of aircraft or vehicies are being made specific

5%
.32
ii
§

ioffences by virtue of section 362A under ciause 149. S-. ;Incidenta11y, some changes are suggested in the provisions

2§a1ating to private defence and are sought to be made in
seditions 103, 105 by adding hijacking of aircraft or
sabotage. The other existing provisions re1ating to mischief
aiso cover some of the a11eged offences committed in respect
of the aircraft or vehic1es. In view of the changes to be
brought about reiating the offence of hijacking in the Bi1T,
they have exp1ained under the proposed section 437 the
meaning of sabotage which is sought to be introduced or
inserted under ciause 180. Likewise, some changes are
suggested in the Bi11 in the proposed new section 432
regarding mischief committed in respect of the air services
Iike beacon, 1ights, etc. at the airport. The IPC (Amendment) Bi11 was prepared in 1978, thereafter the Anti-hijacking Act of 1982, subsequently amended in 1994.
A1so the Suppression of Uniawfui acts against Safety of Civii
Aviation Act, 1982 was enacted which was aiso amended in
1994. An examination of the provisions of these Acts it is
crystai ciear that the changes what are sought to be brought
about in this regard under ciause 179 are being taken care of

in these specia1 enactments both in respect of hijacking as

we11 as the mischief to the service as such. Therefore, there is no necessity now to have
Section 362A as proposed in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978 in

respect of hijacking of aircraft. Consequently, the changes --: 203 :--'

ﬁyoposed under clauses 35 and 37 of the IPC (Amendment) Bill,
EE73 for the amendments in sections 103 and 105 of the IPC
yuﬁch deal with the mischief to property including hijacking
[ﬁ'aircraft, would not be necessary. Needless to mention
that the mischief to the air service etc. has been made a
Erime and punishable under the special enactments mentioned
above. Hence, no amendment is also required in section 432

@f the IPC as proposed in the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978. 10.15. In the light of above discussion, it is recommended
;that section 362A is not required to be inserted in the IPC .
Similarly there is no need to amend sections 103 , 105 , 432 of
the IPC for covering the crime of air hijacking and mischief

to air service etc.

10.16. But this crime is tremendously increasing
throughout the world. The legislation of a country fails
when the jurisdiction for the crime of air hijacking or
criminal arises in two or more countries. It is the need of

the hour that to prevent this crime international cooperation

35 required. Therefore, it is very necessary to have a look
; for international trends towards the problem specially where 2 §he crime isea continuing crime and have jurisdiction of two
ﬁr more countries. In brief, discussion pertaining to

international trends and convention pertaining air hijacking

r

.hall be useful not only for our recommendations but also for

ﬁﬁ" This provision a1so' does not define the term
hijacking', but simp1y mentions its essentiai elements.
fonetheiess, according to Internationai Law, fo11owing are

he essentia1 e1ements of the offence of hijacking: The above--mentioned essentia1 eiements are simiiar
to those mentioned in Articie 11 of the Tokyo Convention,
1963. The on1y innovation in "Hague Convention, 1970" is
that it inciudes an accompiioe of a person who performs or

attempts to perform any such act. The Montreai Convention. 1971. 10.20. A conference was ca11ed by ICAO at Montreai from
8th to 23rd September, 1971. As a resuit of this conference,
6 Convention (known as Montreai Convention For The
Sunpression of Uniawfui Acts Against the Safety of Civil
Aviation, 1971) was adopted. Articie 1 of the Montrea1
Convention provides that any person commits an offence if he

un1awfu11y and intentiona11y-- (a) performs an act of vio1ence against a person on
board an aircraft if that act is 1ike1y to endanger

the safety of that aircraft; (b) destroys an aircraft in service or causes
damages to such an 'aircraft which renders it

incapab1e of f1ight or it is 1ike1y to endanger its

safety in f1ight; or (c) p1aces or causes to be piaced on an aircraft in
service, by any means whatsoever, a device or
substance which is 1ike1y to destroy that aircraft,
or to cause damage to it which renders it incapab1e
of f1ight, or to cause damages air navigation
faci1ities or interferes with that operation, if
any act is 1ike1y to endanger the safety or

aircraft in f1ight; or (d) destroys or damages air navigation faciiitiee
or interferes with that operation, if any such act
is 1ike1y to endanger the safety or aircraft in

f1ight; or (e) communicates information which he knows to' be
fa1se, thereby endangering the safety of an

aircraft in f1ight. <rkmv 4-

Besides this, it is further provided that a person

also commits an offence if he attempts to commit any of the

Effences mentioned above or if he is an accompiice of a
\ A

person who commits or attempts to commit any such offence. Under Artic1e 1 of this Convention, the

No doubt,

concept of the offence of hijacking was further widened. Under this Convention, the State parties have undertaken that

they wi11 provide deterrent punishment to the hijackers. Other provisions are simi1ar to that of the Hague Convention. It wouid not be wrong to say that it is simpiy an improvement

of the Hague Convention. As a matter of fact, it wou1d have

been better if the provisions of Montrea1 Convention had been

adopted as protocoi to the Hague Convention. of univer§a1 jurisdiction in respect of

Princip1e

the crime of the hijacking. 10.21. The princip1e of universai jurisdiction is

universa11y recognised in respect of the crime of piracy. Since hijacking is genera11y described as aeria1 piracy, the

princip1e of universa1 jurisdiction should app1y in respect

of the crime.of hijacking. By universai jurisdiction in

respect of a crime, it is meant that the crime is against the

interests of internationai community and in order to suppress

such a crime, a11 States can exercise jurisdiction in respect

of the crime. The Hague Convention, 1970, and the Montreai

Convention, 1971 on hijacking have gone a long way to confer -: 209 :- Engversal jurisdiction to a great extent on all States, if an
offender or alleged offender is within the territory of a
5 . Etate, both conventions contain provisions for him to be
igken into custody, and if he is not extradited, for his case

Ea be placed before the prosecution authorities. Although neither Convention creates a duty to
axtradite or an inescapable duty to prosecute authorities are
ievertheless under a duty to take their decision in the same
nanner as in the case of any ordinary offence of a serious
iature under the law of that State. If the decision is in
:he affirmative, the above mentioned universal jurisdictional

:lause ensures that the courts will be competent to hear the

:ase. Proposal for the Establishment of an International
Criminal Court: In this connection, fo11owing three kinds of

proposa1s have been made. (1) A separate court administered by the united

Nations; (2) A Specia1 Division of the Internationai Court

of Justice; or
(3) A court by means of Internationai Conventions. But since many States do not sti11 seem to be
prepared to take stringent measures against hijackers and in
view of the present state of internationai reiations and
affairs, preventive measures comprising of thorough searches
of a11 passengers, and their iuggage constitute the best

means to prevent or at ieast minimise the incidents of

hijacking. Probiems of Extradition of the Hijackers:-- As regards action against States which refuse to
extradite or prosecute, it may be suggested that an amendment
to the Chicago Convention which empowered the Council of
I.C.A.O. to order the suspension of all services to or from
member States or I.C.A.O. which refused to extradite or
Drosecute hijackers would override air service treaties

previously concluded between member States. If member States -: 212 :- were forced to choose between accepting such an amendment and
ceasing to be members of I.C.A.O. they wou1d probab1y accept
the amendment, because they' would not 1ikei to 1ose the
advantage of membership of I.C.A.O. It was unfortunate that
such an amendment when presented to the I.C.A.O. Assemb1y in
1973 cou1d not be adopted as it fai1ed to secure the
requisite 67 votes. It cou1d secure on1y 65 votes, i.e.

oniy two votes 1ess than the requisite number. Extradition and Indian Law

10.24. In India, there is the Extradition Act, 1962 . The
Act fe1icitate the Extradition Treaty with other countries if
the same provides extradition of the accused of the crime

inc1uding Crime of Air--Hijacking. Moreover, Section 7(2) of the Anti-Hijacking Act,
1962 provides that for the purposes of the app1ication of the Extradition Act, 1962 to offences under' this Act, any
aircraft registered in a Convention country sha11, at any
time whiie that aircraft is in f1ight, be deemed to be within
the jurisdiction of that country, whether or not it is for

the time being aiso within the jurisdiction of any other

country. V1o.25. In the light of the above. discussion, it appears

that there is an urgent need to have an International Court
of Civil Aviation. The proposed Court will deal with the
crimes of Air hijacking, mischief in the air service where
the jurisdiction will arise in two or more countrlea. The
Law Commission is aware that making a direct recommendation
in International Law is not [within its jurisdiction,
nevertheless this recommendation is being made incidentally
and in the interest to prevent the crime of international
civil aviation. Therefore, it is ekpected from the
Government of India to take up this recommendation with the

international comity as and when possible.
HIJACKING OF THE VEHICLES ETC. 10.26. In the recent past the crime of vehicle hijacking
has increased in various parts of the countries. To take

away the passenger vehicle sometimes by miscreants like

iterrorists etc. has created the problems for the

administration of Law and order. 10.27. In this connection, it is proposed that amendment
ls required in the IPC to tackle this problem. Though the
Chapter XVII of the IPC " offences against the property" is
already dealing with the offence against the property but not
dealing with hijacking of vehicles as there is no motive to

take the ownership of vehicle in case of hijacking of

uehicie. In the hijacking, generaiiy motive may be to create
terror or demand ransom or counter bargaining. But on the
other hand, in Chapter XVII of the IPC ; eoie motive is to
take the property for the purpose of ownership uitimateiy.
If the criminais for the hijacking of vehicies wi11 be booked
under this Chapter as we11 as Section 362 of the IPC which is
deaiing with the abduction of the person either in the

vehicie or outside the vehic1e, then prosecution may face
probiem in proving "mens rea". Another probiem may be to

punish and identify the actuai group behind the crime. The estabiishment of the principie that there must

be a menta1,even though objective, in crime, is now a few
centuries o1d. Tracing the evoiution of this principie,
Russeii on Crime (11th Edition p.23) says: "The new

conception that mereiy to bring about a prohibited crime
shouid not invo1ve a man in iiabiiity to punishment unless in
addition he could be regarded as moraiiy biameworthy, can; to
be enshrined in the we1i--known maxim "actus non facit _£ggm
nisi mans sit rea". This ancient maxim which means that an
act does not make a man guiity uniess there be guiity
intention propounds a morai test of criminai iiabiiity much
has iingered in the iaw for no man can be convicted of a

crime at common law unieee both the phyaicai andrmmtaj

eiements are present in the crime. ?'statutory Offence; ' 10.28. The Taw re1ating to mens rea in statutory offences

is substantiaiiy the same. The basic ruie of interpretation
of statutory offences is that "uniess the statute, either
cieariy or by necessary impiication rules out mens reg as a
constituent part of a crime, a defendant shouid not be found
gui1ty of an offence against the criminai Taw uniess he has a
guiity mind". This ruie is "of the utmost importance for the
protection of Tiberty of the subject". with this view their
Lordships of the Privy Council agreed in Srinivasa Ma11 vs.
Emperor (AIR 1947 P.C.135). This statement of the Taw by the
Privy Councii was approved by the Supreme Court in Ravuia

Hariprasada Rao vs. State (AIR 1951 SC 204)

Though it is true that actus non facit reum nisi

mens sit rea is a cardinai doctrine of criminai Taw the
Legisiature can create an offence which consists so1eTy in
doing an act, whatever the intention or state of mind of the
person acting may be. Whether meQ§_fea is a constituent part
of a crime or not must in every case depend upon the wording
of the particuiar enactment. The Privy Counci1 observed in
Srinivasa Ma11's case that in a Timited c1ass of offences
which are usuaiiy of a comparativeiy minor character the
offence can be committed without a guiity mind. This ciaes
is generaiiy made up of acts mala__prgbibita and the

prohibitions are intended to protect the pubiic or to promote -: 216 :- xhe generai weifare, and , therefore, mens rea is not

 
 
 

insisted upon as an essentiai ingredient of the offence

guniess so deciared in express words by the Legisiature. However, so far as the Indian Penai Code is

concerned, every offence under it virtuaiiy imports the idea
éof criminai intent or mens rea. _ Intent denotes a11 those
states of mind which the statute creating the offence in
question regards as necessary that an accused must have in

order to fix the gui1t in him. Neediess to mention that to constitute a crime the
act must, except in the case of certain statutory crimes, be
accompanied by a criminai intent or by such negiigence or
indifference to duty or to consequences as is regarded by the
iaw as equivaient to criminai intent. Intention, however, is
not capable of positive proof: it can oniy be impiied from
overt acts. As a generai rule, every sane man is presumed to
intend the necessary or the naturai and probabie consequences
of his acts and this presumption of iaw wi11 prevaii uniesa
from a consideration of aii the evidence the Court entertains
a reasonabie doubt whether such an intention existed. This
Dresumption, however, is not conciusive, nor aione sufficient

to justify a conviction and ehouid be supplemented by other

testimony. 10.29. The gravity is such that it cannot be ieft as
theft. Therefore, there is an urgent need to make it a
geparate offence. Therefore, to avoid doubts, it 19

recommended to incorporate the Crime of "Hijacking of
Vehicles" etc. in the IPC . By making this crime a
"statutory Crime",a1i the controversies (iike whether the

said crime can be covered or not in Chapter XVII), will

disappear. 10.30. In the iight of the above, it is recommended that- I. Section 362A (1) as mentioned in the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 (ciause 149) may be omitted but clause

(2) may be inserted in the IPC as under: :1. Section 432 of the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978

(ciause 179) may be dropped. III. In the above mentioned exp1anation the words,
"heiicopter, air giider etc." may be inserted. It may read
as under:-- OR

The words "helicopter, air--g1ider etc." may be
inserted in 3.2 (a) of the Anti--Air Hijacking Act 1982, as weii as in the Suppression of Un1awfu1,

.acts Against Safety of Civi1 Aviation Act, 1982. IV. If need be, necessary amendment may be carried out

in the special iegisiations, mentioned above. CHAPTER- XI

DOCUMENT - SCOPE OF ITS DEFINITION

Section 463 defines the term "forgery". This
section provides that "whoever makes any false document or
part of a document with intent to cause damage or injury, to
the public or to any person, or to support any claim or
title, or to cause any person to part with property, or to
enter into any express or implied contract, or with intent to
commit fraud or that fraud may be committed, commits
forgery". Section 464 defines making of a false document and
enumerates various situations as to when a person can be said
to make a false document. V The Commission proposes to
further examine the scope of the term 'document' in view of
the latest scientific developments in the field of computers
as well as in the context of forgery of a copy of a document
as also the implications of fabricating a document to conceal

a past injury or fraud to escape liability for criminal

prosecution. ii.O2 Commission of fraud through the use of computers: 11.03

fo11ows:- Expianation I. -- It is immateriai by what means or

upon what substance the ietters, figures or marks
are formed, or whether the evidence is intended,
for or may be used in, Court of Justice, or not. Iiiustrations

A writing expressing the terms of a contract, which

may be used as evidence of the contract, is a

document. A cheque upon a banker is a document. A power--of-attorney is a document. A map or pian which is intended to be used or which
may be used as evidence, is a document. A writing containing directions or instructions is

a document. Explanation 2. -- Whatever is expressed by means of
letters, figures or marks as explained by
mercantile or other usage, shall be deemed to be
expressed by such letters, figures or marks within
the meaning of the section although the same may

not be actually expressed. Illustration

A writes his name on the back of a bill of exchange
payable to his order. The meaning of the
endorsements, as explained by mercantile usage, is
that the bill is to be paid to the holder. The
endorsement is a document, and must be construed in
the same manner as if the words "pay to the holder" Evidently, this definition though wide in nature,
needs to contain explicitly a provision in the light of the
recent electronic developments. The Law Commission in its

42nd Report, para 2.56, observed that :- It may be noticed that in the Forgery and
1981 (U.K.), Section 8(1) , the term

means: Parry on Fraud,(2) pr.5--O12, observes: Q,

11.05 A survey of definition of 'Document' in other

legislations would be of great use. According to Black's Law

Dictionary,(3) 'Document' means- Under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, the term
'Document' "means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of ietters, figures or marks, or by more
than one of those means, intended to be used, or which may be

used, for the purpose of recording that matter. Iiiustrations

A writing is a document; words printed iithographed
or photographed are document; A map or pian is a document; An inscription on a metai piate or stone is a

document; A caricature is a document." Under section 10(1) of the Civii Evidence Act, 1968 (U.K.)
the word 'document' is defined as fo11ows:-- 11.06 It is, thus, evident that there is a trend of
widening the scope of the term 'document' having regard to
the latest scientific inventions in the field of electronics.
Consequently, there is apparent need to combat frauds
committed through computers. This would give rise to the
need to exhaustively define the term 'document' under section
29 , IPC. In this connection, it is pertinent to refer to

clause 11 of the Bill which seeks to amend section 29 of the

Penal Code. Under sub-clause (a) of clause 11 of the Bill, it

is provided that in section 29 of the Penal Code, for the

words "expressed or described", the words "expressed,
described or recorded" shall be substituted. By virtue of
sub--clause (b) of clause 11, for the words "figures or

marks", the words "figures, images, marks or sounds" shall be

substituted in section 29 , IPC. 11.07 The Law Commission in its 42nd report, para 2.57
recommended for a slight alteration of the language of
Section 29 of the Penal Code. It observed that the
definition under section 29 relating to the term "document" is wide enough to cover every kind of document. some doubt

was however, noticed as to whether it includes mechanical
records of sound or image. It recommended that it should
include such, as mechanical devices like "tape-records" which
are in frequent use. It referred to the decision of the
supreme Court in Pratap Singh Kairon, (AIR 1964 SC 72, 96.
pr.15) that a conversation recorded on a tape is good
evidence, and obviously if a person forges a tape record, he
ought to be punishable the same way as a person preparing a
false document. The Commission recommended to make this
clear by adding an illustration to section 29. The
Commission recommended that section 29 should be revised to

read as Follows:-- Explanation 2. -- Whatever is expressed by means of

letters, figures or marks as understood by
mercantile or other usage, shall be deemed to be
recorded by such letters, figures or marks within
the meaning of this section, although the same may

not be actually expressed. Illustration

A writes his name on the back of a bill of exchange
payable to his order. The meaning of the
endorsement as understood by mercantile usage, is
that the bill is to be paid to the holder. The
endorsement is a document, and must be construed in
the same manner as if the words 'pay to the holder'
or words to that effect had been written over the

signature." The proposed substitution of the words "expressed
or described" under sub--clause (a) of clause 11 of the Bill
by the words "expressed, described or recorded" are thus
intended to widen the scope of the term "document" by
bringing within its import any matter even "recorded". One
may argue that by virtue of the insertion of the word
"recorded" in the definition of term 'document' under section
29 , IPC that any matter recorded on any disc, tape, sound
track or other device on or in which information is recorded
or stored by mechanical, electronic or other means would fall

within the ambit of the proposed amended definition of

'document' vide clause 11 of the Bill. Nevertheless, the
matter is arguable both ways. Accordingly, it would be
advisable to define the term 'document' on the lines of
definition of 'document' given under section 8(1)(d) of the

Forgery and Counterfeiting Act, 1981 (UK). 11.08 Therefore, the term 'document' as defined in Section 29 , IPC may be enlarged so as to specifically include
therein any disc, tape, sound track or other device on or in
Which any matter is recorded or stored by mechanical,
Giectronic or other means. These words also find place in
5eC.8(1)(d) of the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act, 1981(U.K.)
QUOted above. In order to achieve this purpose, in addition
to the amendment proposed to be added vide clause 11 of the
Bill, we recommend that a new Explanation 3 be also inserted

in Section 29 , IPC on the following lines:- The aforesaid proposed amendment in section 29

wou1d a1so necessitate consequentia1 amendment of the term

"document" under section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872

on the 1ines indicated above. FOOT NOTES

Audit Commission (U.K.)
Ar1idge & Parry on Fraud, --edn, ch.5 pr.5.012

B1ack's Law D1ctionary, Fifth Edn., p.432. CHAPTER XII
THE INDIAN PENAL CODE (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1978

The Indian PenaT Code was p1aced on the statute

:book in the middle of the Tast century and the titie "Indian

.Pena1 Code" given by the then Law Commission refers to the

basic criminai Taw. The Indian Penai Code which is the basic
penai Taw of India, is thus more than 134 years o1d and the
task of bringing it to date was taken up by the Law
Commission of India in the year 1969 and it presented its
42nd Report in 1971. The Government after a carefuT
examination of the recommendations made by the Law
Commission, introduced a comprehensive BiT1 in the Rajya
Sabha in 1972. A Joint Pariiamentary Committee scrutinised
the same for nearTy four and a haif years. After
finaiisation by the Pariiamentary Committee, the Bi1T was
passed in the Rajya Sabha in November, 1978. However, it
cou1d not be passed in the Lok Sabha as it was dissoived in
1979. For some reason or the other this Biii was not again
introduced. The Government of India, however, made a
reference to the Law Commission of India to undertake a
comprehensive revision of the IPC and to come up with

aopropriate recommendations. 12.02 Since the provisions of the Bi11 are mainiy based
on the recommendations made in 42nd Report, we propose to

examine the recommendations made by the Law Commission in its -: 234 :- Eﬁd Report and the changes in the circumstances in the
iéanwhiie and make our own assessment of the necessity to
ﬁring about the changes and a1so indicate modifications to

Em various clauses in the Bi11 wherever it is necessary. In the present Bi11 there are 151 amendments, 95
iubstitutions, 32 omissions and 25 insertions. Apart from
Ease, new sections 13OA to 140' are substituted to the
misting Chapter VII and sections 490, 491 and 492 are
wbstituted under Chapter XIX by changing the heading as
'Offences against Privacy' instead of the existing heading
'Crimina1 Breach of Contracts of Service'. In addition, two
Iéw chapters, nameiy, Chapters VB and XVIIIA are inserted and
mapter XXIII containing section 511 under the tit1e
'Attempts to Commit Offences" has been omitted. Sections 161
m 165A have been omitted by and transposed to the Prevention
W Corruption Act, 1988 . Besides, some of the sections or
ﬂauses or sub--c1auses are renumbered. After introduction of
me proposed Biii, sections 228A (Disclosure of identity of
me victim of certain offences, etc.) and 3048 (Dowry death)
Ere inserted by Acts 43 of 1983 and 43 of 1986,
espectiveiy. Sections 375 and 376 fsexuai offences) and
wading of the chapter were substituted by sections 375, 376,
VGA, 3768, 3760 and 376D by Act 43 of 1983. A partia1
Wendment to Exp1anation 1 to section 405 has been made. In
ddition, a new chapter XXA containing a new section 498A was

nserted by Act 46 of 1983. There are 207 c1auses in the 1978 Bi11. C1auses 1,
6, 7, 8, 12, 16, 39, 40, 44, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 55, 56,
57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 65, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77,
78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 95,
96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108,
109, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 126, 127,
129, 132, 133, 135, 136, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 147,
148, 150, 153, 154, 156, 157, 158, 185, 186, 189, 191, 192,

193, 195, 200, 202, 205 and 207 are oniy inconsequentia1. The changes proposed in the other c1auses
contemp1ate to bring about the basic pena1 statute of this
country updated to remove 1acunae and make it usefu1 for
meeting the optimum needs. Severa1 new offences are proposed
to be inc1uded which wou1d resu1t in 1arge scale changes in

the First Schedu1e of the Code of Crimina1 Procedure. We have carefu11y perused these c1auses of the B111
and we find that some of the changes contemp1ated go beyond
the recommendations made by the Law Commission in its 42nd
Report. Therefore, we think it necessary to examine each of

these c1auses as indicated a1ready. C1auses 2 to 8

12.03 Chapter II provides for genera1 exp1anations. Sections 6 to 52A contain various definitions and

exp1anations. The object of definition is to avoid the --: 236 :- necessity of frequent repetitions in describing the
5ubject--matter to which the word or expression is intended to

appiy. The definitions may be restrictive and exhaustive but

sometimes may be inciusive and exckgsive. In other words, a
definition may be inciusive and exc1usive, i.e., it may
inciude certain things and exciude others. It is we11

settied that the definition is not to be read in isoiation
but must be read in the context of the phrase which defines
because the function of a definition is to give precision and
certainty to a word or a phrase which wou1d otherwise be

vague and uncertain. In The Vanguard Fire and Generai

,Insurance Co. Ltd., Madras vs. M/s Fraser and Ross and

another (AIR -1960 SC 971), the court observed -"It is we11

settied that a11 statutory definitions of abbreviations must
be read subject to the qua1ification variousiy expressed in
the definition ciauses which created them and it may be that
even where the definition is exhaustive inasmuch as the word
defined is said to mean a certain thing, it is possibie for
the word to have a somewhat different meaning in different
sections of the Act depending upon the subject of the

context". Section 6 Ways down that throughout the Code ( IPC ),
every definition of an offence, every penal provision, etc.,
Sha11 be understood subject to the exceptions contained in
the chapter titled "Genera1 Expianations", though those
exceptions are not repeated in such definition, penal

Drovision or iiiustration. Section 7 adds that every expression which is
explained in any part of the Code, is used in every part of

the Code in conformity with the explanation. In these sections, various words and explanations

used in the Code are defined. The Law Commission, in its 42nd Report, clearly
observed that neither the definitions nor the general rules
of construction contained in General Clauses Act are
applicable to the Indian Penal Code except to a very limited
extent but, however, noted that to some extent there is
overlapping resulting in duplication which can be removed by
expressly providing that the General Clauses Act shall apply
for the interpretation of the Code. To that extent, the
Commission recommended the omission of certain sections
containing the definitions which are there in the General
Clauses Act also. In this view, the Law Commission

recommended deletion of sections 8 , 9 and 10 which define

'gender', 'number', 'man', 'woman' and section 11 defining
'person'. In the Bill, by virtue of clause 5, these sections
8 , 9 and 11 stand deleted since these expressions are in the

same terms as they are found in the General Clauses Act . A perusal of the General Clauses Act, 1897 would
Show that the definitions and the General Rules of

Construction contained therein are not specifically made -: 238 :- appiicable to the Indian Penal Code except to a very limited
gxtent. It is well accepted that all penal statutes are to
be construed strictly and that the court must see that any
act or omission charged of, amounts to an offence within the
plain meaning of the words used in the Code and the word

should not be strained in construing the penal statutes, its

.cardinal principle being that in case of doubt the

construction favourable to the subject should be preferred.
The framers of the Indian Penal Code had in view this general
scope of the substantive law in incorporating the definitions
in the chapter of General Explanations. It is also an

accepted principle that the essence of a penal law is to be

exhaustive on the merits in respect of which it declares the

law. In so construing very often the meaning and the object
:underlying the definitions with reference to the offence
fharged assumes importance. To determine that a case is
"within the ambit of the statute, its language must be
p

Ejxplicit and facilitate the court as to what to say and how
E§6 interpret. Having regard to these aspects, it is better
Hklretain the definitions in the Penal Code instead of
Eittlng them as recommended by the Law Commission in its
EM' Report. In the result, we do not recommend any changes
' sections 8 , 9 and 11 . Consequently, clauses 2 to 8 of the
n have to be deleted. In - se 9 -904 By virtue of this clause, sections 18 to 21 are

mm: to be substituted. Existing section 18 says-- "India" means the territory of India exciuding the State of Jammu &
Kashmir. As pointed out by the Law Commission, there is a
need to amend this definition to make it ciear that the
Indian Pena1 Code extends to the territoriai waters of India
in the same manner as it extends to the iand territory. The
Law Commission, in its 42nd Report suggested an amendment to section 18 , nameiy, "India" means a territory of India
including territoriai waters but does not inciude the
territory of Jammu & Kashmir." In recommending this
amendment, the Law Commission Iaid more stress in extending

the Code to the land territory as we11 as internai waters of

India. Though ciause 2 has more cieariy covered the
territoriai jurisdiction, it is siient as to the extension of
the Code to the State of Jammu & Kashmir. It has been voiced

in many workshops as weii as observed in court judgments and
suggestions from the members of iegai fraternity and jurjsts
to extend the appiicabiiity of Indian Penai Code to the
entire country (inciuding Jammu & Kashmir). Though this is a
iaudabie object, new section 18 is not in conformity with the
same. The existing section 1 reads, "the titie and extent
Of operation of the Code- this Act shaii be caiied the Indian
Pena? Code and shaii extend to the whoie of India except the
State of Jammu & Kashmir". The words "extend to the whole of
India" were introduced by way of an amendment in the year
1950 and the words "except the State of Jammu & Kashmir" were
Substituted in the year 1951. The existing section 18 defines India as "India means the territory of India -: 240 :- exc1uding the State of Jammu & Kashmir". It may be noted
that this section was substituted in the year 1950. By
reading these two sections together it appears that the
intention was not to extend the Penai Code to the State of
Jammu & Kashmir as can be noticed from section 1 . But India
as defined in section 18 is somewhat incongruous, i.e., as
the territory of India exciuding the State of Jammu &

Kashmir. However, in the Biii the existing section 1 is not

touched upon whereas the existing definition of India as
found in section 18 is sought to be substituted by new section 18 which reads, "the word 'India" wherever it occurs
in this Code means the territories to which this Code
extends". when the existing section 1 is not modified then
the definition of India in the new section does not carry the
matter further because it says that India means the
territories to which this Code extends, thereby cieariy
impiying that this Code wouid not be appiicabie to the State
of Jammu & Kashmir. In the 42nd Report, the Law Commission
made a recommendation for amendment of section 18 in a
Siightiy different way than what we find in the new section
18 sought to be substituted under the Biii. Having examined
the matter carefuiiy and aiso bearing in. mind that in the
Biii there is no reference to section 1 at aii, there is no
need to substitute the existing section 18 by the proposed
"SW section. However, to make things ciear if necessary and
t0 remove any ambiguity, nameiy, that the restricted meaning

Of India for the purpose of appiicabiiity of this Code wouid -: 241 :- be the territories to which this Code extends, as found in
the existing section 1 , the proposed new section 18 may

suitably be worded. The existing section 19 defines 'judge' and section

20 'Court of Justice'. There was some confusion as to the
interpretation of the expression 'judge'. Section 19 is
sought to be substituted by the new section. The existing section 19 reads- The Law Commission in its 42nd Report noticed some
lacunae in this and recommended that illustrations can be
omitted and section suitably be amended. Now the section

that is sought to be substituted reads as follows-- Whiie retaining the emphasis on giving a
'definitive judgment' and whiie recommending it, the oniy
change brought out is inciusion of magistrate. We endorse

the changes sought to be introduced by the Biii. The existing section 20 defines a "court of
justice" as meaning a judge or body of judges empowered by
1aw to act judiciaiiy when such judge or body of judges is
acting judiciaiiy. The Law Commission, in its 42nd Report,
having examined the ianguage of the Section, observed that
the definition is unnecessarily iengthy and suggested that

the same may be simplified. As mentioned above, section 19 -: 243 :- defining 'judge' as we find in the Biii comprehensive and a11
those words need not be repeated again. Section 20 , as we

find in the Bi11 after the change is simpie and sufficient. The existing section 21 defines 'pub1ic servant'.
The same contains the categories of persons which come within
the meaning of 'public servant'. The concept of 'pubiic

servant' is quite important from the point of view of

administration of criminai justice. The definition of
'pub1ic servant' in section 21 has nexus to section 197 Cr.P.C. whereunder sanction is necessary for prosecuting a

pubiic servant. Now, it is weii settied that if the act
compiained of is connected with officiai duties of the
accused and if reasonabiy found that it was done in the
course of discharging of his officiai duties, section 197 is
attracted and sanction is essentiai for his prosecution.
Therefore, it becomes necessary to find out whether the
accused is a pubiic servant as defined in section 21 . The
Law Commission having examined the existing section observed
that the eiaborate enumeration of various categories of
pubiic servants in section 21 is primariiy based on the
functions discharged by such servants and further noted that
there is considerabie overiapping particuiariy after the
recast of ciause tweive by the amending Acts of 1958 and 1964
and that some of the ciauses require drastic revision. In

the Biii, the new section 21 reads as fo11ows-- 21. "Pub1ic Servant" means,- (i) any person in the service or pay of the
Government, or remunerated by the Government by
fees or commission for the performance of any
pubiic duty; (ii) any person in the service or pay of a 1oca1
authority; (iii) any person in the service or pay of a
corporation owned or controiied by the Government; (iv) any judge, inc1uding any person empowered by
1aw to discharge, whether by himse1f or as a member
of a body of persons, any adjudicatory functions; (v) any person speciaiiy authorised by a Court of
Justice to perform any duty in connection with the
administration of justice, inciuding a iiquidator,
receiver or commissioner appointed by such court; (vi) any arbitrator or other person to whom any
cause or matter has been referred for decision or
Report by a court of justice or by a competent
authority; (vii) any person empioyed or engaged as an examiner
or as an invigiiator by any pubiic body in
connection with any examination recognised or
approved by or under any 1aw. Exp1anation--- The expression "pub1ic

body", inc1udes-- (a) a University, Board of Education or

other body or institution, either -: 245 :- established by or under a Central, State
or Provincial Act or constituted by the
Government; (b) a local authority; (viii) any person who holds an office by virtue of
which he is empowered to prepare, publish, maintain
or revise an electoral roll or to conduct an
election or part of an election; or (ix) any person who holds an office by virtue of
which he is authorised or required by law to
perform any public duty. Explanation i.-- Persons falling under any of the
above clauses are public servants whether appointed
by the Government or not. Explanation 2.-- A person calling under any of the
above clauses by virtue of any office or situation
he is actually holding is a public servant,
whatever legal defect there may be in his right to

hold that office or situation. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report having
Carefully examined the various clauses in section 21 Suggested certain changes which are incorporated in the new
Section. In this context, the Law Commission has examined

various judgments of the High Courts and Supreme Court. The corresponding provisions in existing section

reads as follows- It can be seen that in this clause there is
emphasis on public duty. In G.A.Monterio v. The State of
Aime; , (1956 SCR 682), the Supreme Court indicated that the
requirements of pay and public duty are cumulative. The
court observed, "If therefore, on the facts of a particular
case, the court comes to the conclusion that a person is not
only in the service or pay of the government but is also
Derforming a public duty he has delegated to him the
functions of the government or is in any event performing
duties immediately auxiliary to those of some one who is an
Officer of the government and is, therefor, an officer of the
Qovernment within the meaning of section 21(9) , Indian Penal

Code. The Supreme Court reiterated the same view in State of

A..mI_e;r_x-_ Shivji Lal, (1959 supp(2) SCR 739). After noting -: 247 :- these observations, the Law Comagssion opined that the
expression "pubiic servant" cannot be easiiy defined and no

court has attempted any such definition. Taking into consideration various aspects mentioned
above, the Law Commission recommended in its 42nd Report
substitution of section 21 . The definition of "pubiic
servant" as found in the BiTT (new section 21 ) eiaborateiy
contains the recommendations made by the Law Commission.
However, the Law Commission specificaiiy mentioned one ciause
to be inciuded, name1y-- "any person who is a Member of
Pariiament or of a State Legisiature". In view of the
various poiiticai deveiopments and where numerous instances
of criminaiisation of poiitics are aiieged it is necessary to

have a provision, but in what manner can it be effectiveiy

done? The existing provisions to the effect that any
person receiving remuneration for discharging public duty may
in a generai way cover them since they are receiving some
remuneration and aiso discharging a pubiic duty. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report cieariy recommended that these
Deopie shouid specificaiiy be inciuded as pubiic servants
under the reievant provisions. But the question wouid be
Whether or not suitable amendments are aiso necessary to Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and
Correspondingiy section 197 of Cr.P.C. because a reading of

these provisions wouid show that the emphasis is on the --: 248 :- government service and the power to remove the delinquent
officer by the State Government or the Central Government as
the case may be. But in the case 0% legislators these
provisions providing for grant of sanction as such do not
contemplate as to who should be the sanctioning authority in
case a legislator is to be prosecuted for an act of criminal
misconduct while discharging or purporting to discharge his
official duties which to whatever limited extent may be a
public duty performed by them, namely, being members of the
legislatures. It is but logical that the power should rest
only with the presiding officer of the legislature since the
proceedings or any acts connected with such proceedings
including voting or defecting also are within the privileged
category and it is only the presiding officer who can take a
decision whether the act has any nexus of public duty of a
legislator. Consequently, in case of legislators committing
misconduct, the sanctioning authority can be only the
presiding officers of the legislatures. Unless such changes
in the provisions providing for sanction are also brought
about it may not be appropriate to just include them as
Dublic servants in the relevant provisions. If for
argument's sake no sanction would be necessary under section
19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act or section 197 of
Cr.P.C., then it would be ironical to say that only such
Drotection can be extended to the other public servants and
not to the members of the legislatures who are also by virtue

Of performance of public duty fall in the category of public

servants. Unless such major changes are brought about, it is -: 249 :- not desirab1e and highiy inappropriate to just mereiy bring
them within the purview of pubiic servants under section 21 by inserting a new ciause and make them amenabie to any of

the reievant penai provisions. Ciause 10

12.05 The existing section 25 defines the expression
"fraudu1ent1y" - a person is said to do a thing frauduientiy
if he does that thing with intent to defraud but not
otherwise. The expression "fraudu1entTy" occurs in few
sections, nameiy, 206, 207, 208, 242, 243, 246, 247, 252,
253, 261, 262, 263 and sections 421 to 424. The existing section 23 expiains the terms "wrongfui gains" and "wrongfuT
Toss". Section 24 says that a person does a thing
dishonestiy if he does it with the intention of causing
wrongfui gain to one person or wrongfui Toss to another
person. These definitions are in ciearer terms. But the
same cannot be said about the definition of "frauduTentTy".
The courts, however, observed that to attract the definition,
there must be some advantage on the one side with the
corresponding Toss on the other. The Supreme Court in Dr.S.Dutt v. State of U.P. (1966 (1) SCR 493) observed that
the words "with intent to defraud" in section 25 indicate not
a bare intent to deceive but an intent to cause a person to
act or omit to act, as a resuit of deception piayed upon him,

to his advantage." Having examined various views, the Law --: 250 :- Commission recommended the change in the definition, so that
the meaning can be brought out in cTearer terms. The

amendments suggested in the Bi11 serve the purpose. Ciause 11

12.06 The existing section 29 defines a document and
there are two ExpTanations. Section 3 of the Evidence Act
and section 3(18) of the Generai C1auses Act aiso define the
word 'document'. A reading of these three sections wou1d
show that the main idea in a11 the three Acts is the same and
the emphasis is on the matter which is recorded. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report examined the provisions in a1T
these Acts and recommended an amendment. It aiso observed
that the existing definition with its Expianations is wide
enough to cover every type of document. A doubt was
expressed whether it inciudes mechanicai records of sound or
image Tike tape recording etc., which are in frequent use.
Taking these aspects into consideration, the Law Commission
suggested siight alteration in the Tanguage of the definition
to make its intention ciear. It is on this basis, in ciause
11, the words "particu1ar1y expressed, described or recorded" C1ause 12

12.07 Under this c1ause, existing sections 31 , 32 and 33
which define the words "wi11" referred to in the Act are
sought to be omitted. A perusa1 of the 41st Report of the
Law Commission shows that the omission of this section was
recommended on the basis that they are defined in the Genera1
C1auses Act. Having given our earnest consideration, we have
a1ready noted that such words which are defined in the
Generai Ciause Act and which are specificaiiy found in the
other provisions of the IPC should be retained for severai
reasons aiready mentioned. For the same reasons we are of
the view that there is no harm in retaining existing sections

31 , 32 and 33 and C1ause 12 has to be omitted. C1ause 13 4 12.08 By virtue of this ciause the words

several
gersons" wherever they occur are sought to be substituted by
the words "two or more persons". A perusai of some of the
judgments wouid show that the courts fe1t that there is Some
ambiguity in the ianguage of the section, particu1ar1y in

respect of the meaning to be given to the expression "severa1 -: 252 :- persons". Section 34 embodies the principie of constructive
iiabiiity in the doing of a criminai act, the essence of that
iiabiiity being the existence of a common intention. Section
34 expiains that when a criminai act is jointiy done by
severai persons who are actuated by common intention, in
furtherance of that intention each of them is iiabie for it
as if the whoie of it had been done by him aione. Starting
from Baredra Kumar Ghosh v. King Emperor , (AIR 1925 PC1)
uptii now there have been a number of judgments rendered by
the courts about the scope of section 34. The expression
"several persons" has been examined with reference to the
question whether two persons should at ieast be there as
participants for section 34 and whether a singie known
offender can be convicted by appiication of section 34 if the
facts show that he aiong with one unknown offender at ieast
must have committed the offence. The Law Commission with a
view to see that this ambiguity is not there recommended in
its 42nd Report the substitution of the words "two or more
persons" for the words "severai persons" which expression is
rather wide and vague. By carrying out this amendment the
ianguage of section 34 becomes more expiicit. For the same
reason the expression "severa1 persons" occurring in sections

35 and 38 aiso can be substituted by the expression "two or

more persons". C1ause 14

12.09 Under this ciause it is proposed to substitute
section 40 by another section. The existing section 40 has
three ciauses giving three different definitions of the
expression "offence". The first ciause provides that except
in the chapters in sections mentioned in ciauses 2 and 3, the
word "offence" denotes "a thing made punishabie by the Code".
Ciause 2 Tays down that the offences covered by Chapters IV
and VA and aiso severai sections enumerated therein, the word
"offence" denotes "a thing punishabie under the Code or under
any speciai or Tocai Taw". According to ciause 3, the word
"offence" in respect of the eight sections mentioned therein
has "the same meaning when the thing punishabie under the
speciaT or Tocai Taw is punishabTe under such Taw with
imprisonment for a term of six months or upwards, whether

with or without fine." It has to be noted that the expression "offence"
has a definite meaning. The existing section Tacks ciarity
nor is it conducive. The Law Commission in its Report
Dointed out that whenever a question arises as to the meaning
OF the word "offence" appearing in a particuiar section of
the Code, one has to go to section 40 and go to the c1auses
to find out where the section in question is mentioned. In
the GeneraT Ciauses Act, section 3(38) says that "offence"
ShaTT mean any act or omission made punishabie by any Taw for

the time being in force. The Tanguage in this definition is -: 254 :- precise and would be sufficient to cover all the offences
under the Penal Code since they are a result of an act or
omission made punishable under the court. However, there are
some sections having the expression "offences punishable with
death or imprisonment for life". The Law Commission
suggested that there should be a separate definition for
capital offence incorporated in section 40 which has to
substitute the existing section. The expression "offences
punishable with death or imprisonment for life" occur in many
sections like 115, 118, 1208, 388, 389, 506, etc. It was
suggested by the Law Commission and as proposed in the Bill,
a new section 40 shall contain the definition of capital
offence wherever the expression "offences punishable with
death or imprisonment for life" occurs. Even this expression
has to be substituted by the words "capital offence" which
would be more specific and from the.Billgge find in all those
sections the expression :capftal offence" had been used. The
amendment by way of substitution of section 40 as proposed
under clause 14 defining "capital offence is an appropriate
change. In our considered view and as noted already, to make IPC as a self--contained Code, it would be better to have the
definitions of the relevant words in IPC itself. The section
40 as mentioned above is sought to be substituted on the
ground that the word "offence" is clearly defined in the General Clauses Act and the definition of offence in the
existing section 40 defining offence lacks clarity. In that
view of the matter and to provide a definition in respect of

the offences punishable with imprisonment for life and death, -: 255 :- section 40 is to be only substituted by the new section
defining capital offences. Thereby if one want to know the
section, one has to refer to the General Clauses Act which in
the process while adopting may not be necessary. Therefore,
it is better to have the meaning of the offence as defined in
the General Clauses Act also incorporated in that new section

40 which shall read as follows:-- Clause 15
12.10 The existing section 43 defines the expressions
"illegal"-- "legally bound to do" and lays down that the word

"illegal" is applicable to everything which is an offence or
which is prohibited by law or which furnishes ground for a
civil action and a person is said to be "legally bound to do
whatever is illegal in him to omit." Under this clause in the
Bill, this section is sought to be substituted by a new
section having two clauses. The proposed section is in the
following terms- It can be noticed that according to the definition in the
existing section a person is iegaiiy bound to do only what is
"ii1ega1" in him to omit and the word "i11ega1" is appiicabie
to everything which is an offence or which is prohibited or
which furnishes ground for civii action." The Law Commission
aiso noticed that these definitions are in a circie and have
led to some difficuities as is seen from decisions rendered
by the courts inciuding the privy councii in Ali Mohomed
Adamaiii v. Emperor , (AIR 1945 PC 147), it was recommended
by the Law Commission in the 42nd Report to omit the
definition of the expression "offence" in the Penal Code and
go by the wider definition of the word in the Genera] Ciauses
Act as it wouid obviate the difficuity pointed out by the
courts. However, there may 'be situations creating
difficuities if the omission to do what is enjoined by iaw is
not made an offence under the particuiar Act in question.
The Law Commission in its 42nd Report observed in other words
under the present definition of the term "iega1iy bound to
do" uniess a iaw which enjoins a person to do a particuiar

thing aiso iays down, in so many words, that the person shaii

not omit to do that thing, then the person cannot be -: 257 :- considered "1ega11y bound to do" that thing. In this view a

new section is sought to be substituted which appears to be
sound. ciause 16

12.11 Under this ciause, existing sections 48, 49 and 50
defining words "vesse1, year, month, section" respective1y
are sought to be omitted for the reasons that they are
defined in the General Ciauses Act. For the same reasons

mentioned above in respect of ciause 12, etc., the section

need not be omitted and accordingiy Ciause 16 of the Bi11 has

to be omitted. Ciause 17

12.12 The existing section 52 defines the word "good
faith" and section 52A defines the word "harbour". As per
this ciause, these two sections are to be substituted by new
Sections. In the existing section 52 the definition of "good
faith" is different from that which we find in the Generai
Ciauses Act. In the Generai Ciauses Act the term "good
faith" is defined in the foiiowing terms- concerned,

It can be seen that so far as the other laws are -: 258 :- the definition in the Generai Ciauses Act appears to Tay down
that honesty of purpose a1one is sufficient to make an act
bona fide. Under the Pena] Code the emphasis is on due care
and attention. The Supreme Court in Harbhajan singh v.
State of Punjab , (1965 SCR 235-243) whi1e reversing the
judgment of the Punjab High Court, however, observed "the
eiement of honesty which is introduced by the definition
prescribed by the General CTauses Act is not introduced by
the definition prescribed by section 52 of the Code". It can
aiso be noticed that the Tanguage of the definition in
section 52 is in the negative form as compared to the
Tanguage in the Generai C1auses Act. From the observation of
the Supreme Court it can be seen that the Code does not
express1y exciude the requirement of honesty. However, the
Code stresses the aspect of care and attention but honesty is
impiicit in the idea of good faith. Therefore, taking the
overaTT view a substitution of section 52 is an appropriate
one. The existing section 52A was introduced in the year
1942 and Tays down that except in sections 130 and 157 in the
case in which the harbouring is given by the wife or husband
of that person, the word "harbour" inciudes supp1ying a
person sheTter, food, drink, etc. The Law Commission noticed
that speciaT mention of sections 130 and 157 in the generai
definition is inappropriate and section 52A has to be

revised. A new section sought to be introduced under this

clause in the B111 reads as fo11ows- It can be seen that the expression harbouring in the proposed
section is ciear and expiicit. Therefore, we recommend a

substitution of sections 52 and 52A. Ciause 18

12.13 Under this ciause, the existing section 53 is
sought to be substituted. The proposed section 53 enumerates
various kinds of punishments. Under this proposed new section 4 , new forms of punishments such as Community

service, Disquaiification from hoiding office, Order for
payment of compensation and Pubiic censure have been added.
The sentencing policy and the proposed changes have aiready
been discussed in detaii in Chapter II. For the reasons
stated in that Chapter, we do not endorse the addition of

those new forms of punishments except pubiic censure. C1ause 19

12.14 Under this ciause sections 54, 55 and 55A of the
Penai Code are sought to be omitted. Section 54 provides for

commutation of sentence of death and Tays down that in every -: 260 :- case in which sentence of death has been passed, the
appropriate government may without the consent of the
offender commute the punishment for any other punishment

provided by IPC . Section 55 provides for commutation of

sentence of imprisonment for iife by the appropriatei

government for a term of imprisonment of fourteen years.
Section 55A defines appropriate government that can exercise
the powers under sections 54 and 55, nameiy, the Centrai and

State Governments. The Law Commission in its 41st Report on

the Code of Criminai Procedure having examined section 402(1) of Cr.P.C. 1898 as weii as sections 54, 55 and 55A of the
Penai Code noticed that the appropriate government as
mentioned in section 402(3) Cr.R.C., 1898, is somewhat
ambiguous. However, the Law Commission noticed that the

provisions regarding commutation in sections 54, 55 and 55A
are mostiy repeated in section 402 , 1898 Cr.P.C. and
recommended that this dupiication shouid be removed and the
iaw should be stated at one piace, nameiy, Cr.P.C . In this
view of the matter in 42nd Report, the Law Commission
recommended deietion of these three sections. On that basis
ciause 19 is incorporated in the Biii. In the 1973 Code of
Criminai Procedure this recommendation has been taken care of
and incorporated in the newiy numbered sections, nameiy, 432
and 433. It can be noticed that the Law Commission in its
41st Report on Cr.P.C . 1898 mentioned that section 402
should be revised incorporating some of the provisions of
sections 54, 55 and 55A to remove the ambiguity particuiariy

in respect of the definition of appropriate government. In -I 261 :- Guinea 22

12.17 In view--of the revised sections 64 and 65, section

56 may be omitted. C1ausQ_2§

12.18 Under this ciause section 67 and 68 are sought to
be substituted by the revised sections providing for imposing
imprisonment for default of payment of fine in case of
offence punishabie with fine oniy. In the amended sections

it may be inciuded. 9l§gse-24

12.19 Under this clause the existing section 69 providing
for termination of imprisonment on payment of proportionai
part of fine is sought to be omitted.. This omission is

necessary in view of the new revised section 68. Ciause 25

12.20 Under this ciause the existing sections 70, 71 and
72 providing for the iimitation of time for ievy of fine and
iimit of punishment in case made of severai offences are
Sought to be substituted by revised sections. The revised
Sections are comprehensive on these aspects and the

amendments may be carried out. Ciause 26

12.21 Under this clause sections 73 and 74 providing for
soiitary confinement by way of punishment is sought to be
omitted. In eariier Reports the Law Commission has observed
that this punishment is out of tune with the modern thinking.
Therefore, it has to be omitted as soiitary confinement
cannot be one of the genera] punishments under the statute
Tike IPC . It may be necessary in case of indiscipiine in the
jaii for which the prison Taws may provide for. Therefore,

it is necessary to omit these two sections. Ciause 27

12.22 Under this clause new sections 74A, 74B, 74C and
74D are sought to be incorporated. New section 74A provides
for imposition of punishment of community service. We have
aiready discussed this aspect in Chapter II. We have reached
the conciusion that the punishment by way of community
service cannot be executed in a practicai manner. The
Droposed section 74B provides for compensation to the
Victims. In our Report on Cr.P.C . we have proposed suitabie
amendments to section 357 providing for such compensation and
311 the aspects mentioned in section 74B in IPC have been

incorporated there. Therefore, we do not recommend addition

Or incorporation of new sections 74A and 74B. Section 74C, however, provides for imposition of
the punishment by way of censure in addition to the
substantive sentence under sub--section (3) and this is
limited to offences mentioned in Chapters 12, 13, sections
272 to 276, 383 to 389, 403 to 409, 415 to 420 and offences
under chapter 18 as well as offences under proposed new
sections 420A and 462A under the Bill. These are all
offences where persons entrusted with some public duties
commit offences. Therefore, the additional punishment by

censure will have salutary effect. The new section 74D provides for imposition of
additional punishment, namely, disqualification for holding
office. This applies to public servants. we have discussed
this aspect in Chapter II and reached the conclusion to leave
this aspect to the concerned Departments for taking
disciplinary action under the relevant Acts or rules.
Therefore, we do not recommend incorporation of this new
section 74D. Consequently, the new section 74C providing for
additional punishment by way of censure can be numbered as

74A and may be added. Clause 31

12.23 Proposed new section 94 -- The existing section 94
iays down that except murder and offences against the state
Dunishable with death, nothing is an offence which is done by

a Derson who is compelled to do it by threats which at the -: 265 :- time of doing it, reasonabiy cause apprehension that instant
death to that person wiii otherwise be the consequence.
However, a rider is there to the effect that the person doing
the act did not of his own accord p1ace himseif in the
situation. This section embodies the principle that a person
compe1Ted by force or threat of force to do any act shouid
not be punished for that act. However, two exceptions are
a1so there. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report suggested
that such defence of duress can be usefuT1y extended so as to
inc1ude the threats to "near reTatives" enumerating them as
parents, spouse, son or daughter. The two exceptions and

aiso the embargo are provided for in the he new section. A view has aTso been expressed that a person may
not be c1ose or near reiative but may be one in whom a person
compe1Ted is very much interested and thatﬁhke concept of
"person interested in" is not new to the I.P.C . as we find
the same embodied in section 97 I.P.C. We are of of the view
that such an inc1usion of threats to any other person in whom
the person committing the act is interested wouTd be very
wide and may not be an acceptab1e concept from the point of
view of the princip1es of jurisprudence. In view of the
recent threats of kidnapping of chi1dren for ransom,

advancing threats to cause the death or grievous bodiiy

injury to the victim have become a- common feature.
Therefore, the inc1usion of threats to near reTatives Tike
Barents, son, daughter, etc. wouid adequateiy serve the

Durpose. -: 266 :-- The motive of se1f preservation is inherent in every man.
The authors of the 1860 Code, Rattan Lai & Dhiraj Lal "Law of

Crimes" (23rd Edition 1987) p.273, said

"We propose to excepting from the operation of the
pena1 ciauses of the Code Targe c1ass of acts done
in good faith for the purpose of repeT1ing unTawfuT
aggression. In this part of the chapter we have
attempted to define as such exactness as the
subject npponrs to us to admit the Timitn of the
right of private defence. It may be thought that

we have aiiowed to accord a iatitude to the -: 270 :- exercise of this right; and we are ourselves of the
opinion that if we have in framing laws for a bold
and high spirited people, accustomed to take the
law in their own hand, and to go beyond a line of
moderation in repelling injury, it would have been
convenient to provide additional restrictions. In
this country the danger is on the other side; the

people are too little deposed to help themselves. The punishments with which they submit to the cruel

depredations of gang murders, dacoities and

mischiefs committed in the most outrageous manner

by all of us of ruffians, is one of the most

remarkable and at the same time most discouraging

society in India presents to us. In these

circumstances we are desirous rather to rouse and

to encourage a manly trade than to multiply

restrictions on the exercise of a right to self

defence. We are of opinion that all the evil which

is likely to arise from the abuse of that right is

far less serious than the evil which would arise

for overstepping

from the execution of one person

what might appear to be the exact line of

moderation in resisting a body of dacoits." If we take the present scenario into consideration,
we find that the situation in respect of such crimes noted by
the authors has not in any way changed. Therefore, the law
of private defence of persons and property based on the right

of self-preservation is absolutely necessary. The existing sections 96 to 106 analyse and delimit
the right of private defence. These provisions have very
often come up before the courts for interpretation and
application. Section 96 states that nothing is an offence
which is done in exercise of this right. This right is
analysed in the subsequent sections from two aspects, namely,
defence of the body and defence of property. Section 97
defines these two aspects while sections 98 and 99 are
applicable to both the aspects. Sections 100, 101, 102 and
106 are concerned with defence of the body and sections 103,

104 and 105 are concerned with the defence of property. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report proposed a
rearrangement of the provisions bringing together those
relating to the right to defend the body in one section and
those relating to the property in another for the purpose of
an easier understanding and for facilitating their
application. In the Bill no change in respect of sections 97
and 98 is mooted. Coming to section 99 the Law Commission
after having considered the various clauses in section 99
recommended the insertion of a new provision in section 99 so

as to make the immunity conferred by section 97 co--extensive

*: 272 :- The existing section 100 justifies the killing of
an assailant when apprehension of serious crimes enumerated
in several clauses thereunder is caused and they should be
read subject to the provisions of section 99. The section
lays down that the right of private defence of body extends
under the restrictions mentioned in section 99 to the
voluntary causing of death or of any other harm to the
assailant for an offence which occasions the exercise of the
right by any of the descriptions enumerated in clauses 1 to 6. In these clauses i to 6 serious offences like death,
grievous hurt, committing rape, unnatural lust, kidnapping or
abducting, wrongful confinement are mentioned. The Law
Commission, after examining the existing section 100 did not
suggest any amendment in respect of 3rd, 4th and 5th clauses.
However, minor change is suggested, namely, that in the 5th
clause the right to exercise in respect of abducting should
be limited where the abduction is punishable under the Code,
since abduction by itself is not punishable unless it is

committed with one or the other of the intents specified in

sections 364 to 369. Under clause 33 of the Bill some more
changes have been added. The clauses are numbered as (a) to (e). Assault with the intention of having carnal intercourse

is also added and with regard to abduction it should be one

punishable under the Code. However, there is clause (e)
which is to the same effect -- as clause "sixthly" in the
existing section. Therefore, the proposed change is

appropriate. .. ,... -,_:..~ 274 Under the existing section 101 the words

"voiuntariiy causing to the assaiiant of any harm other than

death" are sought to be substituted in ciause 34 of the Biii

by the words "voTuntary causing of any harm other than death

or the invo1untary causing of the death to the assaiiant".
The Law Commission suggested such a change because there may
be cases of invoiuntary causing of death, for exampie, death
by rash and negiigent act. This change appears to be

appropriate. Section 103 indicates as to when a person can act

in defence of property and enumerates the offences in ciauses

1 to 4 in respect of which the right extends. The right

under this section extends not oniy when the offences thus

enumerated are committed but aiso when an attempt to commit

is made. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report noted that
ciause "secondly" mentions housebreaking by night, but not
Turking house trespass by night, which is as severeiy
punishabie as housebreaking by night, and that it is often
difficult to decide whether the offender has committed
Turking housetrespass or housebreaking. The Law Commission

aiso observed that since certain amendments

in chapter XVII

reiating to offences against property where housebreaking by

night wouid cease to be a separate offence recommended to

omit ciause "secondly" aiso on the ground that the existing

ciause 4 governs aggravated forms of criminai trespass. Existing section 441 defines criminai trespass, 442 house

trespass, 443 lurking house trespass, 444 lurking house -: 275 :- trespass by night, 445 house breaking, 446 housebreaking by
night. These sections were there incorporated in the
existing Code, taking into consideration the circumstances
prevailing in India. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report
while dealing with offences under chapter XVII that is
relating to property recommended deletion of these provisions
and introduced a new section 445 under the head "Burglary".
we have considered these changes while examining clause 182
of the Bill and are of the view that the changes proposed are
salutary. Consequently, the changes proposed by the Law
Commission in respect of clause "secondly" of section 103
need to be incorporated. The Law Commission also recommended
that clause 3 relating to offence -- mischief by fire should
be amplified including mischief by explosive substances,
mischief by fire or explosive substances committed on any

vehicle should be added. In the proposed section 103 of the Bill, there is a
new clause (d) relating to the offences of mischief to
property, house, or intended to be used for the purpose of

Government or any corporation. Two more new clauses (e) and (f) are sought to be
added in the proposed section. Clause (e) includes hijacking
of aircraft and clause (f) includes sabotage. while
discussing the offence of hijacking under new section 362A,
we have indicated that the same need not be incorporated

because of the reasons stated in Chapter X. Therefore, here -: 276 :- also clause (s) has to be omitted. we may also add that
ciause (e) was added in conformity with the new section 362A
appiying to the offence of hijacking of an aircraft. If that
section is to be deieted, c1ause (e) need not be there. It
may be mentioned that in every offence of hijacking, there
wouid be an offence being committed against property or
person. To that extent the reievant provisions of right of
private defence wou1d be appiicabie. Under (f), the offence
of sabotage is mentioned. In our discussion under cTause 180
we have suggested that the new provisions with reference to
the offence of sabotage can be retained. Therefore, ciause (f) can be retained but may be renumbered as (e). Under ciause 36 a minor amendment to section 104 is
proposed. The words "voiuntary causing to the wrong--doer of
any harm other than death" are sought to be substituted on
the same Tines as in ciause 34 with reference to section 101. These changes can be carried out. Ciause 37

 

12.25 Under this ciause the existing section 105 is
sought to be substituted by a new section bearing the same
number. The existing section 105 deais with commencement and
Continuance of private defence of property. The Law
Commission did not propose any change to the section. However, it recommended to omit 5th para which deais with

house breaking by night. The new section deais with house -: 277 :- trespass which has been considered by us under clause 182 and
because of the consequent changes approved thereunder the
clause 5 has to be accordingly omitted. In the new section,
however, we find clause (c) which also mention hijacking of
aircraft. While considering changes in clause 35 with
reference to section 103, we observed that clause (e) dealing
with "hijacking of aircraft" should be omitted. For the same
reason, the words "hijacking of aircraft" in clause (c) in

the proposed new section 105 have to be omitted. Clauses 38 to 44

12.26 Under the Indian Penal Code 'abetment' is a
separate and distinct offence provided a thing abetted is an
offence. As a general rule, a charge of abetment fails if
the substantive offence is not established against the
principle assailant. The Supreme Court in Jamuna Singh's
case, (AIR 1967 SC 553) has held that it cannot be held in
law that a person cannot ever be convicted of abetting a
certain offence when the person alleged to have committed
that offence in consequence of abetment, has been acquitted
and that the question of abettor's guilt depends upon the

nature of abetment and the manner that the abetment was made. Sections 107 to 120 in Chapter V relate to the
abetment. Section 107 classifies abetment under three heads, 1.e., by instigating or by conspiracy or by intentional aids.
These are explained in both Sections 107 and 108. The Law

Commission in its 42nd Report examined Section 120--A which --: 278 :-- Sections 115 and 116 deal with the punishments for
successful abetment of offence. Section 115 specifically
deals with the punishment for unsuccessful abetment of
offence punishable 'with death or imprisonment for life'.
The Law Commission in its 42nd Report noted that the words
'death or imprisonment for life' are ambiguous and they may
cover sedition. Therefore, they recommended to limit it to
capital offences for which death is the only punishment or

one of the punishments provided by law and accordingly

recommended revision of this Section. Existing Section 116
prescribes punishments of offences punishable with
imprisonment when the offence is not committed. The Law

Commission recommended that in order to avoid any overlapping

between Section 115 and 116, it is desirable to exclude
capital offences by inserting the words in Section 116 'not
being a capital offence'. The Law Commission also noted that

the maximum punishment for abetment if that offence be not
committed is only 1/4th of the longest term and this was too
low and should be increased to 1/2 of the maximum term
provided for the offence. The Law Commission also examined
second paragraph of Section 116 and recommended that where
the abettor is a private person who abetted a public servant
should not be dealt with more severely than in a case where
the person abetted is a private individual. Section 117
applies to abetment of the commission of an offence by the
public generally or a number of class of persons exceeding
ten. The Law Commission having noted judgments of some High

Courts recommended a new Section 117A to be inserted which is

to the effect 'that whoever commits the commission of an
offence punishabie with imprisonment by a chiid under 15
years of age whether or not the offence_is committed shaii be
punished with imprisonment of any description provided for
that offence which may be extend twice the iongest term of
imprisonment provided for that offence. Likewise, the Law
Commission also examined Sections 118 and 119 and suggested
some minor changes iike the words 'a capitai offence' be
substituted. A perusai of the new provision sought to be
included wouid show that they are in conformity with the

recommendations of the Law Commission and we are aiso of the

view that the changes are warranted. The changes suggested in ciause 39 of the Bill are

of minor nature. Ciause 45

12.2? under this ciause a new Chapter VB is sought to be
inserted under which new section 120C, 120D defining attempt
and punishment for offence of attempt. The existing section
511 is sought to be omitted. We have carefuiiy examined this
ciause and the scope of these new two sections in Chapter
No.VI and recommend that section 511 be retained and this

ciause be deieted. Ciause 47

12.28 Under this ciause a new section 123A is sought to
be inserted. The new section iays down that whoever assists
in any manner an enemy at war with India, or the armed forces
of any country against whom the armed forces of India are
engaged in hostiiities, whether or not a state of war exists
between that country and India, shaii be punishable. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report recommended insertion of a new
section but in the Biii we find that an Expianation is aiso
added to the section which is expianatory in nature. We are

aiso of the view that the new section may be inserted. Ciause 48

12.29 Under this ciause, the existing section 124A which
deais with Sedition is sought to be substituted by a new
section bearing the same number. Most of the ciauses
mentioned in the existing section 124A find a piece in the
new section. In addition, certain acts are inciuded. The
new section postuiates that whoever by words, either spoken
or written, or by signs, or by visibie representations, or
otherwise, excites, or attempts to excite, disaffection
towards the Constitution, or the Government or Pariiament of
India, or the Government or Legisiature of any State or the
administration of justice, intending or knowing it to be
Tikeiy thereby to endanger the integrity or security of India
Or of any State or to cause pubiic disorder shaii be
Dunishabie. The expression "disaffection" is the same except

the word "disioyaity" is omitted. This change is in

' WWVWWWW" «Iw¢U¥HI,{IF'6ﬂ""."'!I"V-'!7W'"'*"" ' ' -: 282 :- conformity with the addition of offence of disaffection
towards Pariiament, Legisiaturee, administration of Justice
which was not there in the existing section. Having
considered both these provisions, we are of the view that the
changes as found in the Bi11 can be carried out. We have
discussed a11 these aspects in Chapter No.VII in detaii and
we have aiso given reasons why the changes shouid be carried

out. Under this ciause a new section 1248 is aiso sought
to be inserted. Under this new section, whoever deiiberateiy
insuits the Constitution of India or any part thereof, the
national fiag, the national embiem or the nationai anthem, by
burning the national fiag etc., shaii be punishabie. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report observed that there shouid be a
provision for punishment for insuits to the Constitution,
nationai fiag, embiem and the nationai anthem which may
inciude burning of the Constitution and deiiberate insuits to
the nationai anthem which are unpatriotic. Therefore, they
recommended the insertion of this new section. On the basis
of that recommendations, Prevention of Insuits to Nationai
Honour Act, 1971 has been enacted. Therefore, this new
Section 1248 need not be inserted and the same may be deieted

from ciause 48. (Vide Chapter VII)

9J_f.l.u_s e_5. 2. .--L
N)
C»)
O

Under this ciause the existing Chapter VII is

3°U9ht to be substitutod by 0 new Chapter bearing the name -: 283 :- number. This chapter deals with offence which might be
committed by the civilians in' relation to the defence
services personnel. In the Bill a new section 130A is there
which only deals with definitions occurring in the sections
131 onwards. The new section 131 deals with abetment of
mutiny. Section 132 deals with attempts, 133, 134 & 135 with
abetment, 136 & 137 with Deserter, 138 with abetment and 138A
with incitement etc. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report
recommended these changes. It is observed that civilian
population are not dealt with severely as service personnel
involved. Therefore, the Law Commission suggested that there
should be co--relation between such offences punishable under
the Penal Code and the offences punishable by court martial.
Likewise the Law Commission also referred the Air Force Act also. The new section 139 clearly lays down that persons
subject to certain laws like Army Act, Navy Act, Air Force
Act not to be punishable under this chapter. Taking the
implications retognised by the Law Commission, there is no
harm in having this Chapter inserted in place of existing

Chapter. Clause 54

12.31 Having regard to the large scale riotings of
various crimes that are taking place, the Law Commission in
its 42nd Report observed that it is desirable that rioting
should be checked at the earliest stage and also mentioned
collecting sticks, knives, other weapons by anti social

elements who are bent upon committing mischief and with a

aw"? view to check such preparation, the Law Commission
recommended insertion of a new section 1 §fA. Accordingly a
new section 147A is sought to be added vide'clause 54 of the

Bill. We agree with that proposed insertion: ,maTicious intention. The Law Commission, however, did not

recommend insertion of section 1530. It may be noted at this
stage that the existing section 505 deais with offence of
making statements conducive to pubiic mischief and Tays down

I

that whoever makes, pubiishes or circuiates, etc., with

intent to cause fear to the personnei of the defence services. or with a view to cause fear to pubiic etc. wouid be
punishabie. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report
recommended deietion of this section. However, there was a
recommendation to bring changes in sections 153A and 1538,
but section 1530, however, is being added under ciause 68 of
the Bi11 and the same carries the essence of section 505
except omitting the soidiers, Navy, etc. Obviousiy, because,
these offences against defence personnel have been taken care
of in the respective Acts appiicabie to those services. we
have aiready discussed this in this Chapter deaiing with
offences against armed forces, etc. We agree that section

1530 may accordingiy be added. Ciauses 63 & 64

:--.__._--.__...__--.--_.._--..___-- 12.33 Ciauses 63 and 64 of the Biii seeks to amend Sections 161 , 162 and 163 of the IPC. Since these sections
Lhad and aiready been repealed by the Prevention of Corruption
%hCt, 1988 and transposed thereto, clauses 63 and 64 have to

E

%3. therefore, omitted. ..n,$H|»'y'm;-,_ : , ' -: 286 :- Clause 66

12.34 Under this clause a new section 166A is sought to

be inserted which deals with offences by or relating to

public servants- It may be mentioned that sections 161 to

165A which deal with offences of misconduct have been deleted

in the IPC and made offences under the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 . The remaining sections 166 to 171 deal

with other kinds of offences committed by a public servant. The existing section 166 deals with offences of disobeying
law by public servants with intent to cause injury; The Law

Commission in its Forty Second Report observed that the Code

does take into account this kind of misconduct by a public
servant where the misconduct takes the shape of bribery. It
is further observed that it is desirable to ensure that no

public servant shall in the exercise of the duties of his

"office while acting under colour of his office, do any act

which is wrongful in itself, or do an otherwise lawful act in

wrongful manner. From this point of view the Law Commission
recommended that there will be a penalty to punish misconduct

166A. Th

«D

and also recommended insertion of new section

content of new section 166A proposed is different from the

content of section 166 as we finds earlier. The words as to

"maliciously to cause injury to any person" are added,

otherwise the spirit behind the section is more or less same. Therefore, 166A may be inserted. *2 287 :~

12.35 Under this Clause a new section 167A is sought to
be inserted in Chapter IX which deals with offences by or
relating to public servants. The Law Commission in its 42nd
Report noted that even in their earlier Report namely 29th
Report it was recommended that to tackle the problem of
cheating of Government on large scale by dishonest
contractors while supplying goods or executing works,
unauthorised payment in respect of such contracts should be
made punishable under specific provisions. Having noted so

the Law Commission in its 42nd Report recommended insertion

of new section 167A. A perusal of the provision would show
that it is a salutary one particularly in the present
scenario where large scale execution of public works is

taking place. Therefore we agree that 167A may be inserted. Clause 91

12.36 Under this clause new sections 198A and 1988 are
sought to be added in Chapter MXI which deals with the
offences of giving false evidence and offences against public
justice. The unscrupulous persons do not hesitate to use
false medical certificate to gain advantage in the course of
the litigation and sometimes for purposes unconnected with
the Courts. The Law Commission recommend that issuing false
medical certificates and using the same should be made

Specifically punishable under the new provisions. we find -: 288 :- from the Report that in so recommending the Commission noted
that people are accepting generally the medical certificates
because they are issued by doctors and therefore it would be
better to have a specific provision. In the workshops and in
the National Seminar in particular it was deliberated in
detail whether such a provision dealing with medical
certificate issued by any practitioner should be made a
separate offence. The consensus particularly from those
practitioners who participated was to the effect that
provisions are unnecessary and if in a given case a false
certificate is deliberately given with intention that it
should be used in the judicial proceedings and if any person
uses such certificate then he would be punishable under section 197 of the IPC. That apart, section 196 is in
general terms and may cover any such usage or attempt to use
such document as evidence. Having_ given our earnest
consideration and also having regard to the fact that the
medical practitioners are also brought within the provision
of Consumer Protection Act which is a later Act, we think
that addition of new sections 198A and 1988 is unnecessary. Consequently clause 91 has to be omitted. Clause 93
12.37 Chapter XI of the Code deals with offences of false
evidence and offences against public justice. The existing

Sections 206 and 207 punish certain fraudulent acts designed

to Dfevent the seizure of property under the order of court. Section 206 deals with fraudulent removal or concealment of
property to prevent its seizure as forfeited or in execution.
Likewise section 207 deals with an offence of a fraudulent
claim to property to prevent its seizure as forfeited or in
execution. It can be seen that while section 206 deals with
removal or concealment or such property, section 207 deals
with a fraudulent claim to such property. There is no
specific provision to deal. with other types of removal or
interference of such property. Once property is lawfully
attached by an order of a court, it is obligatory that no
removal of any kind or interference whether fraudulent or
otherwise should be there. The Law Commission in its 42nd
Report having considered this aspect, pointed out that once
any movable property has been lawfully attached by a court
order, any unauthorised removal or any interference with that
property should be punishable irrespective of the motive or
the intention of the person concerned. Accordingly, the Law
Commission recommended insertion of a newyﬁﬁction 208A under
this clause. This provision appears to be necessary as the

concept is that the court's order should prevail under any

circumstances to promote ends of justice.
Clause 94

12.38 The existing section 182 deals with the offence of
giving false information with an intent to cause public
servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another

Derson. Section 211 deals with the offence of making false

Mr' « 

charge of offence of making false charge of offence made with
intent to injure and it is in two parts. The second part
deals with such a false charge of an offence punishable with
death, imprisonment for life, etc. and makes it to be a
graver offence punishable with higher sentence. To some
extent the contents of these two provisions overlap. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report rightly noted that the
practical importance of this overlapping or conflict lies in
the procedural rule with reference to section 195 of the
Criminal Procedure Code. The Law Commission also noted that
the wording of section 21i"is not as clear and unambiguous as
could be desired". Consequently the Law Commission
recommended rewording of that section and the new section is
to substitute the existing section. The change proposed is

an appropriate one. Clause 100 T ' 5'

12.39 In Chapter XI the existing section 229 deals with
an offence of personation of a juror or assessor. It has no
relevancy. Therefore, it has been rightly suggested to omit
that section. The Law Commission however recommended in its
42nd Report to substitute two new sections in the place of
section 229, namely, sections 229A and 2298. As per that

recommendation section 229A is to deal with the offence of

_lnterference with witnesses and section 2298 is to deal with

V . 05-9!" 51'.' ""1 '5'

ithe offence of failure by a person who is on bail or on bond -r 291 :- -; 292 :- Clause 112

12.42 In Chapter XIII sections 264-267 deal with offences

,of using false instruments for weighing and measuring and

being in possession of false weights or measures or making or
selling the same. In 42nd Report the Law Commission having
regard to such offences committed on large scale recommended
that the sentence should be two years instead of one year and
On the basis of that recommendation in clause 112 the
Substitution of words "two years" for "one year" in those

Sections is sought to be contemplated. In this context, in several workshops it was
highlighted whether the retention of _those sections in
Chapter XIII would be necessary in view of the Standards of
weights and Measures Act, 1976. A perusal of the penal
provisions of sections 50-70 and an examination of the scope
and object_of the Act would reveal that the main purpose in
enacting this Act is to see that the standards of measures
and weights are established and the same to be used in trade
and commerce. This aspect is also clear from an examination
of the definition of "false weight or measure" which means

any weight or measure which does not conform to the standard

established by or under this Act of 1976. Therefore, any
such violation, namely, using non--standard weights and
measures per se amounts to an offence. The word

"fraudulently" which is used in each of the sections 264. 265
and 266 IPC and the words "which he knows" occurring in sections 266 and 267 IPC are not found in the various
offences enumerated in Part 6 of the Standards of Weights and
Measures Act . That means for an offence punishable under
those sections, the question of mens rea or an element of
fraud is not relevant. Whereas in respect of those offences
in Chapter XIII of IPC such a state of mind is an important
factor. It can also be noticed that the sentence in respect
of offences punishable under the Standards of Weights and
Measures Act is much more lenient and a complaint can be
filed only by a Director or an authorised officer mentioned

therein and a private citizen who is a victim cannot -: 294 :- prosecute in a court. Therefore, it is appropriate that the
said sections in IPC should be retained as they are and

increase the sentence as proposed under clause 112. Clause 119

12.43 Under this clause a new section 279A is sought to
be inserted. The existing section 279 deals with one type of
offences relating to rash driving or riding on a public way.
Under the new section the offence of driving unsafe or
overloaded vehicle on a public way is sought to be punished.
Having regard to the increase in the volume of road traffic
and indiscriminate use of vehicles whether they are

roadworthy or not, such a provision is very much needed. Clause 122

12.44 The existing section 292 in chapter XIV dealing
with offences affecting the public health, safety,
convenience, decency and morals, punishes the obscene books
etc. This section has been also amended in the year 1969.
As to the nature of the test of obscenity, the assessment of
the same depends upon so many factors and there have been
judgements rendered on it. There have always been a
practical problem in deciding what is "lascivious" and what
appeals to the "prurient" interest, and what does or does not
tend to deprave or corrupt. The Law Commission in its 42nd

Report observed that "more important than this attempted -: 295 :~

definition is the new exception, which allows a defence on
the ground that the publication is in the interest of art or
science or literature or learning. This will actually turn
on "expert evidence", which would be permissible under section 45 of the Evidence Act. The Law Commission however
recommended that it would be safer if in the section itself a
provision is specifically made for admission of such expert
evidence. We are also of the view that such expert evidence
in respect of the facts and circumstances in a case on the
question whether they are of lascivious nature etc. should
be covered by the section on the lines recommended by the Law
Commission in the new sub--section sought to be inserted in
section 292 under clause 122 of the Bill which would be an

appropriate addition. Clause 123

i2.45 After section 292 a new section 292A is sought to
be inserted. Under this clause the new section deals with an
offence of printing etc. of grossly indecent or
surreptitious matter or matter intended for blackmailing. A
perusal of this new section shows that the object of
inserting the same is to prevent the irresponsible way of
printing newspapers, periodicals or other exhibits meant for
Dublic view in such matter when the same is intended for
blackmailing. This will be a good check on such printings
etc. which are grossly indecent. This section also provides

for a minimum punishment if the same offence is committed

.n''' -: 296 :- again on the same iines as we find in section 292. There are
a1so expianations to this new section deaiing with good faith
etc. Expianation 2 gives certain guideiines to the court and
provides certain considerations regarding» generai character
of the person incharge etc. to be taken into consideration
by the court. However, we are of the view that the sentence
may be made three years so that it may be on par with the new
section 292A to be inserted. Further, in conformity with our
recommendations on sentencing poiicy vide Chapter II, the
punishment under this proposed new section_292A shouid 'STE; be imprisonment and fine. Ciause 124

12.46 The existing section 294A deais with offence of
keeping iottery office. This section is sought to be
substituted by a new sections 294A and 2948 under this
ciause. The existing section Tays down that whoever keeps
any office or piace for the purpose of drawing any iottery
not being a State iottery shaii be punished with imprisonment
and aiso deais with pubiication of any proposai to pay any
sum. The new section is more eiaborate and enumerates the
Various steps and prescribes the necessary punishment. In
View of the modern trends in proiiferation of the iotteries,
this new section is a saiutary one and it. is on the Tines
recommended by the Law Commission in its 42nd Report.
Likewise, section 2948 though a new section oniy prescribe

the necessary punishment in respect of the offences of sale, -: 297 :- distribution of lottery tickets. Section 2948 deals with the
sale, distribution of lottery tickets of a State lottery
without authorisation by the respective Governments and makes
such sale punishable. The object underlying is obvious,
namely, to prevent illegal dealing with the State lottery
tickets. In conformity with our recommendations on
sentencing policy vide Chapter II, the punishment under these
proposed new sections 294A and 2948 should also be

imprisonment and fine. Clause 125

12.47 In this clause Section 302 is sought to be

substituted by the new section bearing the same number. Under Section 392 a person who commits murder shall be

A.

 

sentenced to-I»'%----' '-'.m§1.ea§h. The Question in what t)/De of

.cases the dea3ﬁﬁﬁﬁ£§§ﬁi[jd'uld,be_§warded has been considered

in a number 'ﬂfﬁgéses by the Supreme Court and a concept of

"rarest of rare cases" have been evolved. But in the

[proposed section it is sought to be enumerated as to in what

type of cases death sentence can be awarded. We have
considered this aspect in Chapter III' and arrived at a
conclusion that all categories of such cases can not be in
the said Chapter. Consequently, Section 302 should be left

as it is and clause 125 may stand deleted. and -: 298 :- Ciause 128

12.48 Under this c1ause a new section 3048 is sought to

be inserted. At the outset we must point out that in 1986 by

amending Act 43 of 1986, the existing section 304B deaiing

with dowry death was inserted. Therefore, the new section
namely 3048 under this c1ause cannot. be given the same
number. It is obvious that the Biii is much anterior.
However, a perusai of the new section shows that aii those
offenders who induige in rash and negiigent driving, drive or
run away without informing any poiice station within a
reasonabie time after having caused death or injury. This is

a phenomenon, namely, "hit and run" to escape from the

Tiabiiity. Therefore, this provision can be inserted as

mentioned above, but the number cannot be 3048. We recommend

that this may be inserted in 304A as subsection (2).
Ciause 130

12.49 Under this ciause sections 307 and 308 are sought

to be substituted. In general, both the sections are

anaiogous in many respects to the existing sections. Iiiustrations to section 307 are, however, sought to be

deieted under the proposed section. The Law Commission in

its 42nd Report proposed a new Chapter 58 defining attempt

aiso prescribing punishment by inserting sections 120C

and i200. Consequently, the Law Commission also have

:recommended substitution of the new sections 307, 308 whiie

dealing with Chapter VB and the proposed sections 120C and -: 299 :- 120D. we make it ciear that it is not_necessary to HECé
these new sections 1200 and 1200 and aiso recommended to
retain sections 307, 308 and 511 as they are except to deiete
the second part of existing section 307 which prescribes
death as the punishment for any attempt made by a Tife
convict. This has to be deieted for the same reasons for

deieting section 303. (Vide Chapter VI)

Ciause 131

12.50 Under this ciause the existing section 309 which
makes attempt to commit suicide punishabie is sought to be
omitted. But in view of the recent judgement by the Supreme
Court In Gian Kaur (Smt) VS State of Punjab, ( 1996
SCC(Cr)37A) vires of the section has been upheld.
conseouentiy, the existi§g;section 309 has to be retained and
clause 3131 has. to qﬁggﬁmitted from the Bii1.( Vide Chapter

VIII)

Clause 134

12.51 Under this ciause the existing section 320 defining
grievous hurt is sought to be substituted. The Law
Commission in its 42nd Report observed that the word
"privation" used in the efisting section is archaic and
"emascuiation" in that ciause may be omitted as the same is
Covered by the widened 5th ciause. The proposed changes are

Only peripherai, but a Tittle more expianarative. Therefore,

that can be carried out. -L 300 :- Ciause 144

12.53 Under this ciause the existing sections 341 and 344
are sought to be substituted. The Law Commission in its 42nd
Report recommended that under section 341 the sentence of
imprisonment is unnecessary but fine may be upto Rs. 1,000/and where, however, the offence is jointiy committed by

ten or more persons, it shouid be more severeiy punishabie
with imprisonment of either description upto one year, or
fine or both. Accordingiy, the Commission recommended the

revision of section 341 and aiso section 342. Whiie deaiing
with section 343 and 344 the Law Commission recommended that
both of them couid be incorporated in one section and
proposed new section 343 deaiing with wrongful confinement
for five days or more. In the Biii, however, we find on the
same iines, the new sections are being incorporated. The
question is whether the offence is aggravated if there are
ten persons and whether there shouid be such a iimit. we are

of the view that the number of persons on the basis of -: 301 :- constructive liability can be limited to two or more persons
as we find in the proposed amendment in section 34 , 35 and 38 IPC. Clause 146

12.54 Under this clause a new section 354A dealing with
offence of indecent assault on a minor is sought to be
inserted. This aspect was considered in Chapter IX and
accordingly for the reasons stated therein, this clause has

to be omitted. Clause 149

12.55 Under this clause, the existing section 362 is
sought to be substituted by the new section. This existing
section 362 'deals with offence of definition of abduction.
Under the new section it is elaborated. This new section
362A dealing with hijacking of aircraft or any other vehicle
is sought to be added. We have discussed about this new
section in Chapter X. For the reasons mentioned therein the
new section 362A need not be inserted. However, so for as
the new section 362 is concerned, it has enlarged the meaning

of abduction and it can be inserted. Clause 151

12.56 Under this clause, after section 364, a new section
364A dealing with offences of kidnapping is sought to be
inserted. Having regard to the present crime scenario c?
this nature, the new section is a salutary one and has been

rightly carried out by Act No.42 of 1993. C»)
CD (3) .1) 3 1 12.57 Under this clause, the existing section 4.. to be substituted by the new sectﬂ

U
3'
i
J.
(D

366A are sought

second half of the section 366 and 366A are c

with each other. The Law Commission also accoro'nc'
recommended that they could appropriately be out 'n one
section. Accordingly, the second half of section 368 is
incorporated 366A. The change is only consecuential and we
endorse the same. Clause i55

12.58 Under this clause the existing section 369 is
sought to be substituted. The Law Commission in its 12nd

Report observed that the existing section 368 which deals
with wrongfully concealing a person knowing to be «idhaDD9G
or abducted, leaves the punishment to be regulated accord'"g

to the punishment for the principal ofFence of kidﬂaDDing of

abduction. It would be better if specific punishment f3 -: 303 :- provided in the section. The new section is on the same

Wines suggested by the Law Commission. Therefore, the

substitution accordingiy be made. Ciause 159

12.59 Under this ciause, the existing sections 375 and
376 are sought to be substituted by new sections 375, 376A to
376C. For the reasons stated in Chapter IX this ciause may
be omitted. We, however, recommend a modification in ciause
3 of section 375 by inserting the word "injury". The change
may be brought about. Ciause 150

12.60 Under this ciause the existing section 377 is

sought to be substituted by the new section. This existing

section makes as unnatural offence punishabie and the

sentence prescribed is imprisonment for iife or imprisonment

of either description for a term which may extend to ten

years and aiso shaii be iiabie to be fined. The Law

Commission in its 42nd Report examined the question whether

the sentence of imprisonment for life or for the ten years

a serve one. A Questionnaire was issued and one of the

questions was whether unnaturai offences shouid be punishabie
and

at all the repiies received appears to be conflicting. 1§___,_ -: 304 :- However, having regard to the sociaW vaWues in our country,
the Law Commission recommended some changes particuWarWy in
respect of punishment. The Law Commission rightWy observed
that the sentence of imprisonment for Wife or ten years in
every case is unreaWistic and very harsh. They, however
recommended that such assauWt on a minor by an aduWt shouWd
be punishabWe sever. On those Wines, the new section 377 is
formuWated. So the same may be substituted, on the Wines

suggested in Chapter IX. CWause 161

12.61 Under this cWause, the existing Sections 380 and
381 which deaW with offences of theft are sought to be
substituted by Sections bearingi the same numbers. This
existing Section 380 deaWs with theft in any buiWding,
dweWWing house, tent or vesseW etc. and Ways down that such
an offence shaWW be punishabWe with imprisonment of either
description, which may extend to seven years and shaWW aWso
be WiabWe to fine. In the new Section, more number of pWaces
where such theft is committed are added. For instance
aircraft etc and Sub--section (2) specificaWWy incWudes theft
of "antiquity or art treasure" and theft in respect of those

things is made a graver offence and is punishabWe with ten

 

years. In CWause (d) of the Section in the BiWW the words
"shaWW be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term" appear to be missing. They have to be added. Another new Section 380A deaWs with theft of property

.rr" Sections 388 and 389 deai with specific offences of extortion
by threat or accusation or putting a person in fear in order
to commit extortion. Under section 388 the threat or
accusation contempiated is one of putting any person in fear
0? such an accusation of having committed or attempted to

commit any offence punishabie with death etc. and the

punishment for such extortion is imprisonment upto 10 years,
and if the accusation is with reference to an offence under
section 377 then the punishment is imprisonment for life,
Likewise, under section 389 where in order to commit
extortion puts a person in fear of accusation of offences
mentioned therein then he would be punishable with a sentence
extendable to 10 years and if the accusation is with

reference to the offence under section 377 "may be punished

with imprisonment for life". A bare perusal of these
sections would show that sentences are severe and
disproportionate and perhaps violate the doctrine of
proportionality. Therefore, the substitution of the words
"may be punished with imprisonment for life" with "lesser

periods of sentence" is called for. Clause 164

12.65 Under this clause a new section 396 is sought to be
substituted in place of existing section. The existing
section lays down that when a person while committing dacoity
commits murder, every one of the persons participating in the

offence shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life

or rigorous imprisonment for ten years. Imposition of death
sentence is made to be applicable to some categories
mentioned in the proposed section 302. we have already dealt

with this aspect in Chapter III and suggested that it should
be left to the court as to in what circumstances the death

sentence can be imposed. In this context, we have also -: 309 :- referred many of the Supreme Court judgements where the*" thereby making the punishment less severe also appears to be

'Z 310 :- Ciause 168

12.68 Under this ciause a new section 399A is sought to
be inserted. The existing section 399 makes "preparation to
commit dacoity" punishabie. The dacoity is only an

aggravated form of robbery when committed by five or more
persons. Therefore, it is Togicai, if preparation to commit
robbery is aiso made punishabie under section 399A which is a

new section. We suggest that the change may be made. C1auses 169 and 170

12.69 The changes proposed under these sections aré"6ﬁT7" consequentia1 and can be made. C1ause 171

12.70 A new Explanation I is sought to be added in
section 403. Consequent1y renumbering of the existing
Exp1anation is aiso sought. The new Expianation which

reiates to offence of misappropriation committed by partner
in respect of the property be1onging to the partnership is
sought to be covered. Therefore, the proposed changes can be

brought about. C1ause 172-173

12.71 Under these ciauses some minor changes are proposed

in sections 404 and 408. The changes can be brought about. C1ause 174

12.72 Under this clause the word "factor" occurring in
section 409 is sought to be omitted. May be in certain
respects the word "factor" may be obso1ete, but there is no
no harm in retaining this word. Accordingiy clause 174 may

be omitted. _...~\_

: 312

C1ause 175

12.73 Under this c1ause the existing section is sought to
be substituted by way of giving an extended meaning to the
expression "sto1en property". The existing section 410

describes the

stoien property as property a portion whereof

has been transferred by theft or by extortion etc. A

question arose whether a property a portion whereof has been

transferred by committing an offence of cheating

wouid aiso

amount to stoien Property. The Law Commission in its 42nd

Report examined this aspect and recommended that property

obtained by cheating shouid aiso be inciuded. The Law

Commission aiso considered the question whether the property

which is subject matter of a theft committed by an offender

who gets the benefit of genera] exceptions under Section 82,

83 or 84 can be described as stoien property when a portion

thereof has been transferred. Having considered this tissue,

the Law Commission recommended that it is but iogicai and

transfer of a portion of such property wiii aiso come within

the meaning of stoien property though the actuai offender may

not be punishabie by virtue of the appiicabie exceptions. To

ampiify the point, an iiiustration aiso was recommended to be

added. The proposed new section 410 with iiiustration is
based on the Law Commission's recommendations, which is
appropriate having regard to the meaning which can 1ogica11y

be given to the expression stolen property. Ciause 176

12.74 Under the existing Section 411 dishonestiy
receiving a stoien property is made punishabie and under
Section 414 dishonestiy receiving stoien property in the
commission of dacoity is made a graver offence. There were
suggestions that such dishonest receipt of stoien property
beionging to the government or iocai authority or corporation
etc. should be made punishabie with very severe punishment.
Accordingiy under this ciause the words mentioned therein to

carry out this suggestion are sought to be inserted in both

the Sections which wouid serve the purpose. Ciause 177

12.75 Under this clause the existing Section 415 is
sought to be substituted by a new section with some changesx
In the existing section, the damage or harm iikeiy to be
caused is with reference to oniy the person deceived but in
the proposed section the scope of the damage is sought to be
extended to not oniy that person but to any person.
Therefore, the words "to any person" are virtuaiiy substitute
to the words "to that person" thereby extending the sweep.
The oniy other change is the words "wrongfui gain" after the
words "reputation or property" are sought to be added which
are in line with the change contempiated in clause (a) viz.
adding the words "to any person". The scope of the existing

expianation is expanded by inciuding that if any person

. C
, x. dishonestly omits to disclose the fact which he is bounc

under the law to disclose also amounts to deception. We may

mention here by way of clarity that thee Bill does not

specifically refers to Explanations under Section 415 but as

cheating is of such a wide connotation it would be better to

retain the illustrations. Clause 178
12.76 Under this clause Section 420 is sought to be
substituted by a new Section with some changes. Likewise. anew Section 420A relating to cheating of public authorities
in performance of certain contracts is sought to be inserted.
Yet two new Sections, Section 4208 relating to publication of
False advertisements and Section 4200 relating to fraudulent
acts in relation to property of a company are also sought tc
be added. The existing Section 420 lays down that whoever

cheats thereby dishonestly induces a person to deliver the

 

property to any person or to make or alter, destroy etc.
shall be punished. A question came up that in a case where
by deceiving any person fraudulently induces to consent that
any person shall retain any property would also be covered.
The Law Commission in its 42nd Report recommended that such a
clause be added. That is the only change in the proposec

Section 420 which makes the Section more explicit. The

change may be carried out. 'Ii -: 315 :- The Law Commission in its 29th Report considered as

to how to tackle the problem of cheating of government on a

large scale by dishonest contractors while supplying good§T'

The Law Commission in its 42nd Report adverted to this aspect
and recommended that a provision should be made making such
offences punishable. The new Section 420A is fairly
exhaustive to cover such offences and the punishment provided
is not severe. In the modern trend of trade and commerce, a
number of false advertisements are being made to mislead the
public. Though the Law Commission in its 42nd Report has not

adverted to that, the proposed new Section 4208 appears to be

salutary. 420C

Fraudulent transfer of property in relation to
companies is sought to be covered by this Section. This

section lays down that whoever with an intent to mislead or
injure a person or public, makes or causes to make any
transfer of property belonging to a company by a gift, sale
etc. or with such intent alters, removes and conceals any
sign or name plate of the company to indicate that the
company has ceased to exist shall be punishable. This is in

line to check fraudulent acts by way of cheating as mentioned

therein. -i -: 316 :- Ciause 179

 

12.77 Under this clause the existing sections 426 to 432
are sought to be substituted by new sections covering in
generai the offence of mischief. The existing section 425 in
generai defines mischief. Sections 426 to 440 are punishing
sections appiicabie to different kinds of offences of
mischief and higher punishments are prescribed in respect of
aggravated offences of mischief iike destroying pubiic
property or pubiic services etc. The Law Commission in its
42nd Report considered these sections and recommended that in
respect of certain offences the punishment should be
increased from five to seven years. with reference to
section 437 it is also recommended that a reference to
aircraft shouid be added. The Law Commission however
recommended that sections 426 to 440 shouid be substituted.
Section 426 prescribes punishment for mischief and the Law
Commission recommended enhancement of sentence from three
months to one year. Sections 427 to 436 as proposed by--the~--~
Law Commission deal with the offence of causing mischief to
the pubiic property or machinery to the amount of Rs.iO0/-- or
more, mischief by kiiiing or maiming animais, injury to
pubiic road, aircraft etc. and mischief by fire or expiosive
substances with intent to destroy piace of worship. so far

as sections 438 to 440, the oniy changes are with regard to

sentence and omission of section 439. In the Biii, the new
sections 426 to 432 cover the offences of mischief more or

iess as proposed by the Law Commission in the above mentioned

sections to be substituted as per its Report. ' we hat

examined the new sections 426 to 431. However, we recommer

that the sentence of three years prescribed- under each c

these sections may be enhanced to five years. New Coming ti

section 432 proposed in the Bill, we find that the type o~

mischief covered by this section is with reference tc
destroying, moving or rendering less useful any air route
a beacon or lights etc. used for guidance of the aircraf'
and such a mischief is made punishable and the sentence being
seven years, but it is also mentioned there that if it does
not amount to sabotage then it would be a different matter t: A comparison of the contents of this section with
the contents of section 432 would show that the acts of
violence mentioned in the latter are in a general way covered
by the words used in section 3A--iB of the SUACA Act. However, the disruption of the words used in section 432,

namely, less useful route etc. and the damage to various
other gadgets would be of a specific type of mischief. To
make the section more comprehensive and effective we

recommend that section 3A of the SUACA Act may further be

amended incorporating some of the acts mentioned in the

is

proposed section 432. We may also add that we are making
these suggestions, firstly because we have already
recommended deletion of new section 362A to the" extent

applicable to the

aircraft and also for the reason that so

many technical issues would be involved in these kinds of

offences and the special courts with the help of technicians

acting as assessors would be in a better position to

understand and decide the complicated questions that may

arise. If amendment of section 3A is not to be carried out

in the above manner then the new proposed section 432 may be

retained in the clause. If so, then the sentence under

section 432 may be brought in accordance with section 3A. Clause 180

12.78 Under this clause the new sections 434 to 440 which

also deal with

graver or serious type of mischief are sought ----....__«

to be substituted in the place of the existing sectionsT"' We

have already mentioned that the changes suggested by the Law

Commission with reference to sections 438 to 440 were only

regarding sentence. But in the Bill in these proposed
sections the mischief caused to the public institutions,
public services and to aircraft etc. with a view to impair
the efficiency or impede the working thereof of any of these

public institutions rendering service is made punishable
severely. The proposed se; ion 434 again deals with mischief
to any aircraft or to any docked vessel or to any vessel 0? a
burden of 20 tones upwards with a view to render it unsafe -: 320 :- etc. Section

435 covers the offence of mischief by fire or

any explosive substance intending to cause or knowing it to
be likely that thereby would be causing damage to any
property to the amount of Rs.100/- or upwards. Section 436

again covers the offence of mischief by fire or any explosive

etc. which results in destruction of any building or any

object which is held sacred. The language of this section

is
somewhat analogous to existing section 436. Section 437 is a
new one and the offence mentioned therein is "sabotage .
This section is very exhaustive. A careful reading of this

section which contains several types of acts of mischief

would reveal that the intention of the Legislature is to

combat the destructive acts of violence with an intent to

impair the efficiency of the public institutions and the

services which in the present type of organised crime

sometimes of international ramifications. Sub--sections (2)

has been rightly added in this section. Sub--Sections (3) and

(4) also have been properly added in this very section. Though preparation by itself in general is not an offence but

having regard to the magnitude and the propensities the

preparation for committing sabotage also is made punishable

under section 438, but the sentence of three years may be
enhanced to five years. However, the' word "aircraft"
occurring in section 434 may be omitted in view of our

suggestions made in Chapter X. In respect of other types cf

mischief regarding the aircraft section 3A of the SUACA Act

is to be amended. If not, the section as proposed may be
retained and the sentence be brought in accordance with

section 3A of SUACA Act. Clause 181
12.79 Under this clause the word "lawfully" found in the
existing section is omitted in the the proposed section. In

the existing section the second limb of the definition of
criminal trespass reads: "having lawfully entered into or
upon such property unlawfully remains . . . . . . . .." The new
clause (b) in the proposed section 441 aiso carries out the

same meaning. Clause 182

12.80 Under this clause sections 443-460 dealing with
various kinds of house trespass are sought to be substituted.
In the proposed section 443 a new expression 'burglary' is

defined and it says that a person commits burglary if he

commits house--trespass in order to commit or having committed!»

house-trespass he commits theft. The existing section 443
gives the meaning of offence in lurking trespass. In the new
proposed section such an offence is not mentioned. It can be

seen from the existing sections 443, 444, 445 and 446 that

the various types of trespassing by night and by house

breaking by night are with reference to commit an offence

like theft. The framers of the Bill by introducing the -2 322 :- and "obliteration" be also added in the second paragraph
thereof in addition to the existing word "cancellation" and
that (iii) sections 463 and 464 be combined and the
illustrations provided thereunder be omitted. Clause 184 of

the Bill seeks to bring about the aforesaid recommendations -: 325 :- (i) and (ii) except (iii). Whi1e we agree with the aforesaid
changes proposed in Ciause 184 of the Biii, we propose to

further examine the scope of section 464 I.P.C. Whi1e section 463 defines "forgery", section 464
defines "making a false document" and enumerates various
circumstances which wouid amount to making of a faise
docgment. It is not c1ear1y speit out under either of the
sections 463 or 464 as to whether forgery of a copy of a
document or copying a faise document or making a faise copy
of a document, wouid aiso amount to forgery within the
meaning of section 464 , IPC. It would not be out of piace to
mention that under sections 2 and 4 of the Forgery &
Counterfeiting Act, 1981(U.K.) copying a faise document and
using a copy of a faise document, has been specificaiiy made
punishabie. As regards the position in India, there existed
a controversy on the above point (see H.S.Shamosundorariah v.
State of Mysore , (1968) 1 Mys LJ 294 at p.297; Gobinda Prasad

Parui v. State , AIR 1962 cai.174 at p.175) (cited at page

 

3939 of Penai Law Of India by Dr.Hari Singh Gaur, 10th Edn.
and 5 Bom HC Rep cc 56 (ref.Law of Crimes (A Handbook) by

V.V.Raghavan, Second Edition, page 931). However, the Supreme Court has finaiiy settied the

D0Sition in Rama Shankar Lai v. State of U.P. , 1970 UJ(SC)

507 by approving the foiiowing observations in Essan Chunder

D"tt & others v. Baboo Prannauth Chowdry & others, 1

;"arshaiia's Reports 270 326 "we regard the forgery of a copy clearly to come

within the purview of the section just cited. Forgery of a copy which was not true copy, would be

the offence there rendered penal, and the criminal

intention to make a false document

serves the
purpose of a true one would be clear by such act of

forgery." We are of the view that though the position

is now
settled it would be desirable to add an Explanation in section 464 , IPC so as to make it specifically clear that
knowingly committing forgery of a copy of a document or

knowingly making copy of a false document or making a false

copy of a document would also amount to forgery within the
meaning of section 464 , IPC. we recommend that in order to meet the above

situation, Explanation 3 in Section 464 may be added on the

following lines:-- C1ause 187

12.83 The proposed changes under sub--c1auses (a), (b) and (c) of ciause 187 of the Bi11 are on the basis of the reasons

'and recommendations contained under paras 18.8, 18.10 and

18.11 of Chapter 18 of the aforesaid 42nd Report. By virtue of sub-clause (a), the words "in respect
ofia document which is, or purports to be..." are proposed to
be substituted in Section 467 , IPC for the sake of c1arity as
stated under the preceding paragraph in respect of Sec.466 IPC and a1so as recommended under para 18.10 of the 42nd
Report. We aiso concur with the proposed changes under sub

clause (a) that the words "authority to adopt a son or" Under sub-ciause (b) the proposed substitution by
the words "or an acquittance" is in the interests of ciarity

as recommended in the revised form of Section 467 IPC as

stated under Para 18.11 of the 42nd Report. By virtue of sub--c1ause (c) the words "with
imprisonment for iife, or" are sought to be omitted under Section 467 IPC. This is necessary because the imprisonment
for iife provided in Section 467 for forgery of va1uabTe
securities appears to be too harsh as observed in the 42nd

Report. We aiso concur with this change. CTause 188

12.84 The proposed changes in sections 470 and 471 of the
Penal Code are on the basis of the reasons and
recommendations contained under paras 18.13 to 18.15 of

Chapter 18 of the aforesaid 42nd Report. Section 470 , IPC is proposed to be substituted
because the existing section 470 which defines a "forged
document" as "a faise document made whoiiy or in part by
forgery" is defective as observed by the Law Commission in
its 42nd Report, (para 18.13) thereof. This is in view of
the fact that forgery is itseif defined in Section 463 read
with Section 464 , IPC as "making a faise document" with the
requisite intent, so that, when one reads section 470 and

sections 463 and 464 together, one meets the idea of "making 329 a document" twice. By virtue of second part of c1ause 188, section 471 , IPC is proposed to be substituted. The proposed

changes are in accordance with the recommendations of the Law

Commission and the changes can be carried out. Ciause 190
12.85 Under this clause the existing section 474 is
sought to be substituted by the proposed new section. The

change suggested is on1y periphera1 and the proposed new

section simpiy 1ays down that whoever has in his possession

any document of the description mentioned in both the

sections 466 and 467 knowing the same to be forged and

intending to use the same frauduientiy or dishonestiy sha11

be punished with rigorous imprisonment of seven years. Ciause

By virtue of clause 194 of the Biii, certain

amendments are sought to be made under the Explanation Ciause

of Section 489A of the Code. These inciude (a) the

Expianation Ciause shaii be numbered as [A Expianation I and

in the Exp1anation as so numbered, the words "and inciudes a
trave11er's cheque" shaii be inserted at the end; (b) the
foiiowing sha11 be inserted as Expianation II: Since the proposed changes are ciarificatory

nature, the changes sought to be made under sub--c1auses (a)

and (b) of ciause 194 of the Biii may be carried out. Ciause 196

12.87 Ciause 196 of the Biii seeks to insert a new
section 489 F which provides for punishment for 'preparation'

for committing offences under Section 489A to Section 489E. Counterfeiting of currency notes is a serious
offence since it affects the economy of the country. We

agree with the insertion of the proposed new section 489F. Ciause 197

12.88 The existing Chapter XIX entitied "OF THE CRIMINAL

BREACH OF CONTRACTS OF SERVICE" contains only Section 491. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report under para

19.2 has recommended for deietion of the chapter XIX of IPC which inciudes Section 491 , IPC mainiy on the ground that it
is not of practicai utiiity. A ciose iook at the provision

wouid indicate that the provision is impiemented to protect -: 331 :- the contractual rights of helpless or incapable person who,
by reason of youth or of unsoundness of mind, or of a disease
or bodily weakness is helpless or incapable of providing for
his own safety or of supplying his own wants. In other words
the provision intends to protect the rights of such persons
on the grounds of humanity. Such persons may not be in a
position to seek .civil remedy. Therefore in the present
context of the human rights, it may be desirable to retain
this provision with enhanced punishment. We recommend that
the existing punishment may be enhanced from three months to
one year and the existing limit of imposing fine of Rs 200
may be substituted by the word "fine" only so that the Court
may fix the quantum of fine depending upon circumstances of
the case. We also recommend that this offence be made
cognizable, if information relating to the Commission of the
offence is given to an officer incharge of a Police Station
by the person aggrieved by the offence or by any person
related to him by blood, marriage or adoption or by any
public servant belonging to such class or category as may be

notified by the State Government in this behalf. This clause also seeks to substitute Chapter XIXW

and insert thereunder new sections 490, 491 and 492 providing

for the offences against privacy. The Law Commission examined the various aspects of
right to privacy under Chapter 23 of its 42nd Report and

recommended for insertion of a new Chapter on "Offences -: 332 :- against Privacy". Whiie adopting the recommendations of the
Law Commission, with certain modifications, C1ause 197 of the
Bi11 seeks to substitute the existing Chapter XIX of the
Penai Code for the said purpose which contains new sections
490, 491 and 492. Under the proposed section 490 use of
artificia1 iistening or recording apparatus for iistening the

to or recording any conversation in any premises without the

knowiedge or consent of the person in possession of the

premises is made punishabie for imprisonment upto six months- In case any one pubiishes such conversation whiie knowing
that it was so Iistened to or recorded, he wi11 be 1iab1e for
a higher punishment of imprisonment upto one year. The
proposed section 491, makes the taking of unauthorised
photography is made punishabie for imprisonment upto six
months, and if one pubiishes such photograph, the
imprisonment may extend to one year. However, the proposed
Sec.492 provides for exceptions regarding certain acts of

pubiic servants, and persons acting under their directions. Right to privacy is a vast subject and its scope
has been widened considerabiy under Articie 21 of the
Constitution of India by the Supreme Court under its various
decisions. Various countries abroad have aiso deait with the
various aspects of right to privacy in separate iegisiations.
For exampie, the Law Reform Commission of Hongkong in its
Report of December 1996 entitled "Privacy: regarding the
Interception of Communications", has referred to various

iegisiations in different countries reguiating interception --: 333 :-- Clause 199

12.90 Under this Clause again, the existing Section 497

is sought to be substituted by a new Section. This Section

deals with offence of committing adultery. We have discussed

about this proposed amendment in Chapter No. IX in detail

and we suggested some changes by way of corrections in the

proposed Section so as to make the woman also punishable and

for the reascn:-- The amendments are in conformity with the recommendations of
the Commission and may be carried out. Likewise, the other
sub--sections (1) and (2) are also in accordance with the

recommendations of the Law Commission. *2 336 :- The Commission further recommended under para 22.6
read with para 8.26 of 42nd Report that the rest of the
section 505 shouid be taken in Chapter VIII as new section

1588: The Law Commission in para 22.6 read with para 7.9
of its 42nd Report, recommended that clause (a) of
sub--section (1)) re1ating to statements made with intent to
cause mutiny, dereiiction of duty, insubordination etc.
among the armed forces shouid find a piace in the Chapter

relating to offences against the armed forces. The -: 337 :- Commission recommended to add it as section 138A on the lines

stated under para 7.9 of the Report. The proposed section

138A is in accordance with the said recommendations to which

we agree. However with regard to the rest of section 505 i.e.

section 505(2) and (3) of the Penal code, the Commission

recommended under pr.22.6 read with para 8.26 that the

provisions could well' be regarded as géeating offences

against public tranquillity and should be taken in Chapter

VIII as section 1588. It felt that the provisions of section

505(2) and (3) of the Penal

Code really relate to public

tranquillity. This part of the section is very similar to,

though not wholly covered by section 153--A and thus it would

be logical to include it in Chapter 8 immediately after

section i53--A.

A perusal of the proposed section 153--C under

clause 58 of the Bill shows that these provisions are on the

lines of the proposed section 158B recommended under para

8.26 of the 42nd Report which incorporates the provisions of

section 505 (2) and (3) with certain modifications. Thus the

provisions under the existing section 505 may be omitted

since these are covered and transposed in the proposed

provisions as stated above. Clause 204

12.93 By virtue of clause 204, after section 507, a new
section 507A is proposed to be-inserted. Proposed section
507A provides punishment with?" imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or with both for causing damage etc. to places open to
public view. The term "place open to public view" and
"objectionable matter" are comprehensively clarified under

the sub--section (2) of proposed section 507A. Proposed section 507 A has a laudable objective for

creating an orderly society and we endorse the same.
Clause 206

12.94 The Law Commission in its Forty second Report
recommended that the last chapter of the Indian Penal Code containing section 511 be omitted and, instead, a new Chapter
VB entitled "Attempt" consisting of two sections 120C and
1200 be inserted after Chapter VA on the lines indicated by
the Commission under para 5.54 thereof. Accordingly, clause
206 of the Bill seeks to omit chapter XXIII of the Indian
Penal Code . After having carefully considered the matter, we
are of the view that section 511 is working well and there is
no need to omit it and transpose its provisions to a new
Chapter VB containing sections 120C and 1200 for the reasons

discussed in Chapter VI of this Report. CHAPTER 4 XIII

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS

We have now come to the end of our detailed study

of the Code. The recommendations which we have made for its

improvement are numerous, ranging from verbal changes

designed to remove ambiguities and clarify underlying ideas,

to substantial changes with a view to its simplification and

modernisation along with some additions in the existing
provisions. 13.02. No doubt, the evaluation of The Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill, 1978 was the main task in this Report. The
said Bill was based on 42nd Report of the Law Commission, and
could not become an Act in spite of having been passed by the

Rajya Sabha as the then Lok Sabha was dissolved. Beside the

said Bill, the Law Commission also examined a number of new

problems and issues which gave rise to the necessity of

undertaking a further comprehensive revision of the Indian

Penal Code in the light of current Socio--legal Scenario. 13.03. we have given special attention to the extent and

nature of the punishments prescribed in the Code for various

offences and suggested modifications to bring them into

accord with modern notions of penology. We have indicated in

each Chapter of this Report, corresponding to a Chapter of -: 340 :- the Code, the provisions which should be made in lieu of, or
in addition to, the existing provisions, and also the
amendments, both major and minor, to be made in them. A sum
up of the principal recommendations made in each Chapter is

as under:-- But out of them sections 490 and 492 were repealed and the
only remaining section 491 deals with "Breach of Contract" to
protect the contractual rights of the helpless persons. In
the proposed new Chapter XIX which is sought to be
substituted in place of the existing Chapter, sections 491 to
492 are inserted and they deal with "Offences against
Privacy" like use of artificial listening or recording

apparatus either to listen or to record conversation of

person or persons without their knowledge or consent or
making unauthorised photographs, etc. We have dealt with
this clause in detail in Chapter XII after duly referring to
the contents of 42nd Report as well as the concept of right
to privacy as extended under Article 21 of the Constitution

and also various reports of foreign Law Commissions and -2 341 :- (Para 2.05) 2. In the Indian Penai Code, the offences are divided
into bai1ab1e and non-bai1ab1e depending upon the gravity of
the offence. About 120 offences in the Indian Pena1 Code are
non--cognizab1e. It is voiced that some triviai offences

affecting public order a1so can iead to serious deve1opments --: 342 :- if they are not dealt with promptly and, therefore, it is
desirable that such offences are made liable for public

intervention. It is recommended that the offences punishable
under sections 290, 298, 431, 432, 434, 504, 505 and 510 be

made cognizable. (Para 2.06) 3. The amounts of fine to be imposed should
considerably be enhanced and it should, as far as possible,
be substituted for short--term imprisonment. Further, the
poor victims of uses and abuses of criminal law should be
compensated by way of reparation and that the amounts of fine
prescribed long ago have lost their relevance and impact in
the present day and the fines imposed have no relation to the
economic structure of society and necessary element of

deterrence is generally absent. An examination of the various sections in the Codem.-- where sentence of fine, is provided for, reveals that from a
minimum fine of Rs.100/-- it varies up to Rs.1,000/--. In

respect of most of the offences it is below Rs.500/-. Therefore, a change regarding the quantum of fine
should be made in all those sections correspondingly, at

least by 20 times and make a provision in the Code of -: 343 :- Criminal Procedure regarding the powers of the First Class
Magistrates to impose such a fine. ( Para 2.09) 4. The proposed amendment vide clause 18 of the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 making imprisonment for life rigorous,
that is, with hard labaour, is necessary. (Para 2.11) 5. Clause 27 of the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978,
provides the insertion of a new Section 74A exclusively to
deal with punishment of community service. It means that

convict will have to perform the service without any

remuneration. The implementation part of it provides that_ a

the work is to be performed under proper supervision as per
arrangements to be made by the State Government or any local

authority. The Commission felt that there are a number of
difficulties in enforcing the same like that supervisory
authority will have to see whether the convict is working and
rendering service for the number of hours specified and if he

fails to do so by way of default, he has to be sentenced

thereafter. Therefore, we think

an open air prison system is
better suited from the point of view of correctional measures

rather than the proposed punishment of community service. ( Para 2.13) 6. Another suggestion was whether the punishment

"disqualification from holding office" should be incorporated

in section 53 of the Indian Penal Code. In some types of

cases particularly involving public servants and other

persons holding office in corporations, companies, registered

societies, etc., ending in conviction should necessarily

entail with the disqualification from holding office, but

such a course is intrinsically connected with their

respective service rules and regulations. It is a matter of

common knowledge that in almost all such service rules we

find some provision or other disqualifying such a person

after conviction, from holding the office. It is recommended that it would be appropriate to

leave the issue to be decided by the concerned authorities

under all those rules and regulations because incidentally

some other questions pertaining to the service conditions may

also arise which warrant a further inquiry. (Para 2.14) 7. The Law Commission in its 154th Report on the Code
of Criminal Procedure has recommended insertion of a new
provision, namely, 357A providing for framing victim -: 345 :- compensation scheme by the respective State Governments under
which the compensation can be awarded to the victims on the
Tines indicated therein wherever it is found to be necessary

apart from the compensation awarded by the court under

section 357 out of the fines. we may also indicate that
awarding sufficient compensation depends upon many
circumstances which require some inquiry. Further in some
cases an order for payment of compensation need not

necessari1y be by way of punishment. Therefore, we are of the view that it is not
appropriate to incTude order for payment of compensation in
section 53 by way of punishment. (Para 2.16) 8. Another punishment which is sought to be incTuded
in section 53 is 'pubTic censure', namely, pubiication of the
name of the offender and detaiis of the offence and sentence.
The proposed Section 74C provides for imposition of the
punishment by way of pubiic censure in addition to the
substantive sentence under sub--section (3) and this is
Timited to offences mentioned in chapters XII, XIII, sections
272 to 276, 383 to 389, 403 to 409, 415 to 420 and offences
under chapter XVIII of the Code as offences under proposed
new Sections 420A and 462A under the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bi11, 1978. These are aii offences where persons
entrusted with some pubiic duties commit offences. Such a

punishment has great re1evance in respect of anti--sociaT 346 offences, economic offences, otherwise called white--coi1ar

offences particularly committed by sophisticated persons. It

is of common knowledge that while these offences affect a

large number of people, the offenders are not readily booked_

However at

least in such cases which end in conviction, the

punishment of public censure is likely to act as a greater

deterrence because

of the fear of infamy resulting from the
publicity and consequent repercussions like loss of business,

etc. Such a censure is one of the prescribed punishments in

Russia, Columbia and other countries. In India such form of

punishment is included in the Prevention of Food Adulteration

Act and Income-tax Act. The Law Commission in its 42nd

Report considered the inclusion of

such a punishment and

be

recommended that such additional punishment would useful

in the case of persons convicted for the second time of any

of the offences under chapter XII and XIII, like extortion,

criminal misappropriation, cheating and of offences relating

to documents. It is recommended that such public censure by way

of an additional punishment should be there and accordingly

be included in section 53 of the Indian Penal Code and it

should be left to the discretion of the court regarding

imposition of the same in selective cases. (Para 2.16)

"Z 347 Z-. 9. In respect of number of offences the punishment

prescribed is "imprisonment or with fine or with both". It

is voiced in various workshops that in view of the changes in

the modern society, the type of crimes and the repetition of

those crimes or the frequent occurrence of certain types of

crimes, it is necessary that the punishment shouid be

imprisonment and in addition fine aiso. Having examined various provisions in the IPC and

the modern trends of crime, we are of the view that in

respect of the offences under sections 153, 153A, 160, 166 to

175, 177, 182, 221, 269 to 291, 292, 294 to 298, 336, 465 and

477A, the punishment shouid be imprisonment as weii as fine. Incidentaiiy, we aiso suggest that the extent of imprisonment
shouid be enhanced suitabiy in respect of these offences. (Para 2.17)

13.06. CHAPTER -- III

DEATH PENALTY 1. The Commission carefuiiy considered the question
from severai angies after making comparative study of the iaw
of other countries and after examining various judgments tiii

date rendered by the apex court. We reiterate the recommendation of Law Commission

in its 35th Report for retention of the capitai punishment,

but to be awarded in accordance with the guideiines iaid down

by the Supreme Court. (Para 3.07) 2. It is aiready recommended to retain section 302 as

it is instead of reading any iimitations into the same

regarding imposition of death sentence for the reason that it

is impossibie to put them in any straight jacket for the

reason that what circumstances make a case a "rarest of rare

one" cannot be fixed by way of a iegai provision. The Law Commission recommends that no change is
required in Section 302 as is proposed in clause 125 of the
Biii. (Para 3.10) 3. Ciause (3) of section 302 of IPC (Amendment) Bill,
1978 is providing for running of sentence of iife
imprisonment consecutively instead-of concurrently. It wi11

be a retrograde step in accord with deterrent and retributive

theories of the past as observed by the Supreme Court. Therefore, we do not approve the proposed ciause

(3) of section 302 in the Bill. (Para 3.12) -: 349 :- 4. Section 303 of the Indian Penal Code provides; The Supreme Court in Mithu v. State of Punjab (1983) 2 SCC 277, declared that the aforesaid provisions of
Section 303 violate the guarantee of equality contained in Article 14 as also the right conferred by Article 21 of the

Constitution. We have carefully considered the various provisions
of the Bill and feel that after section 303 is omitted, the
second part of Section 307 which provides that "when any
person offending under this Section is under sentence of
imprisonment for life, he may, if hurt is caused, be punished
with death" cannot be retained on the same analogy and
principles on the basis of which section 303 has been held to
be arbitrary and oppressive and violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. We accordingly recommend deletion of

the second part of Section 307. (Para 3.14) -: 350 :- 13.07. CHAPTER - IV

CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY' 1. Though the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 is silent
about the offence of criminal conspiracy but the Law
Commission earlier in its 42nd Report recommended that the
criminal conspiracy for petty offences should not be covered
under this Chapter. Therefore, a revision of Section 120 of

this Chapter was recommended. Now after re--examining, -it is recommended that

there is no need to disturb Chapter VA as it works well even

it covers conspiracy for petty economic crimes. (Para
4.08) 2. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report had

recommended that Section 1208 should be revised to make the
section self-contained. But the same was not incorporated in

the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978. We are of the view that a Criminal Conspiracy is a
separate offence and punishable separately from the principal
offence. Chapter VA works like residuary provision for the
crime of conspiracy. Therefore, no need to disturb the
current provisions pertaining to criminal conspiracy. (Para 4.13)

351-2-

13.08. CHAPTER V

FINANCIAL §CAM 1. Recently, various sort of financial scams in

various fields like banks, hospitals, non--financial

institutions involving crores of rupees have surfaced. We are of the view that this problem can be tackled

if

the following new section, namely, Section 12OBB is
inserted in the IPC . 13.09. CHAPTER ~VI
ATTEMPT -- Insertion of

ent shaii amount to a
defraud uniess some act
done by one or more

in furtherance thereof. financiai organisation or
corporate, which is owned
nment, shaii be deemed to
for the purposes of this

(Para 5.06)

new sections

120 C & 120 D by way of new Ch 1. The Indian Pena] Code (Ame

provision for this new Chapter und

to 51 of the Biii seem to be incorpo

Chapter i.e. Chapter VI of the

Chapter ought to be confined to sect

which are dea1ing with "Attempt". After examining from

recommended that there is no need to

in the IPC as Section 511 is working

aspects. Therefore, in view of it,

apter VB in the Bi1T

ndment) Biii, 1978 made a

er cTause 45. Ciauses 46

rated by mistake in this IPC . Therefore, this new

ions 120C and 120D oniy

it

(D

various angiee,
insert proposed nectione

weii and covers the said

no need to introduce a -.......--_.---- new Chapter VB containing Section 120C and 120D. If need be

the ianguage of section 511 may be amended. (Para 6.16)

13.10. CHAPTER -- VII
OFFENCES AGAINST THE STATE

SECTIONS 121 - 130 1. Having considered the provisions of section 121--A,
we are of the view that no changes are necessary. Simiiariy
sections 121, 122 and 123 need not be disturbed as already

suggested in the 42nd Report of the Law Commission except,
the words "imprisonment of either description" be substituted

with "rigorous imprisonment". (Para 7.09) 2. The proposed section 123 A in the Bill is based on
the recommendations of the Law Commission in its 42nd Report.
However, the Biii, apart from incorporating new section 123A
in the IPC , sought to add an Expianation thereto. We are of
the view that there is no harm in having the said

Expianation. (Para 7.11) 3. The Law Commission in its 42nd Report had
recommended the revision of section 124A deaiing with
sedition. The same has been incorporated in the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 under clause 48. After reexamining -: 354 :- the matter, we are of the view that section 124A may be

substituted as recommended. (Para 7.18) 4. On the basis of eariier recommendations made by the
Law Commission in its 42nd Report, Prevention of Insuits to

Nationai Honour Act, 1971 was enacted. Therefore, the proposed section 124B in the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978, is not required to be inserted in the IPC and the same may be deieted from C1ause 48 of the Bi11. (Para 7.21) 5. We agree with the proposed Ciause 49 of the IPC (Amendment) Bi11, 1978 that section 125 of the IPC may be

revised as fo11ows: (Para 7.25) -: 355 :- 13.11. CHAPTER - VIII

 

SUICIDE : ABETMENT AND ATTEMPT 1. Law Commission in its 42nd Report had recommended
that Section 309 is harsh and unjustifiab1e and it shouid be

repea1ed. However, on re--examining, we recommend that Section

309 shouid continue to be an offence under the Indian Penai
Code and Clause 131 of the Bi11 be deieted. (Para 8.17)

13.12. CHAPTER - IX

OFFENCES AGAINST WOMEN AND CHILDREN 1. The Law Commission recommends that clause Third1x

in Section 375 be amended as under:- 2.

violence -: 356 :- she is interested, in fear of death or of hurt, Q; of any other iniury,

(Para 9.34)

To deal with the issue of increasing sexual

on women and female children, the Law Commission

recommends that the offence of sexual assault be added to the

existing offence of outraging the modesty of women in Section

354 and punishment be increased from two years to five years. Accordingly,

Expanding the scope of Section 354

in our view,

Section 354 be amended on the following lines: in the above manner, would

cover the varied forms of sexual violence other

than rape on women and female children. (Para 9.35)

commit sexual assault'LU' -: 357 :- 3. The Law Commission is further of the view that the
offence of eve teasing faiis within the scope of Section 509
and there is no need for a new section 376F as recommended by
the Nationai Commission for Women. However, the Law
Commission feeis that the quantum of punishment be increased

from one year to three years and fine. Accordingly, we recommend that Section 509 be

amended in the following manner: (Para 9.35) 4. we recommend that another Expianation, Expianation

3 be added to section 494 which reads as under:-- (Para 9.42) 5. About Aduitery, the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 has
brought in the concept of equity between sexes in marriages

vis--a--vis offence of aduitery in the subsequent section 497. However, the Law Commission recommends that the

phraseoiogy of ciause 199 has to be modified on the foiiowing
iines to refiect the concept of equaiity between sexes. Accordingiy ciause 199 shaii be amended as under: (Para 9.46) -: 359 :- 6. If section 497 is amended on the lines indicated
above, sub-section (2) of section 198 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure,1973 would also need to be suitably amended. (Para 9.47) 7. We recommend that in view of the growing incidence
of child sexual abuse in the country, where unnatural offence
is committed on a person under the age of eighteen years,
there should be a minimum mandatory sentence of imprisonment
of either description for a term not less than two years, but
which may extend to seven years. The court shall, however,
have discretion to reduce the sentence for adequate and
special reasons to be recorded in the judgment. Consequently

section 377 be amended on the following lines:- (Para 9.52) """ 8. In the opinion of the Law Commission, the existing
Section 376(2)(f), and the Law Commission's recommendations

for amendment of Sections 354 and 377 are adequate to deai

with chiid sexuai abuse. The Law Commission, therefore, does not recommend
the incorporation of a new Section 354A as suggested in
ciause 146 of the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978. (Para 9.59)

13.13. CHAPTER X

A_B_DU. Q] I.QL\l_.IN.C_I_DsEhl_IJ-LA _.._C3_.li-L._»'LC,l<~I_?'LG_ 1. Ciause 149 of IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 proposed
to insert a new Section 362A in respect of hijacking of

aircraft. The proposed ciauses 35 and 37 of the IPC -: 361 :- (Amendment) Bill, 1978 also seek amendments in Section 103 and 105 of the IPC, inter alia, regarding hijacking of

aircraft. we recommend that there is no need to insert

Section 362A as well as to amend Sections 103 and 105. (Para 10.15) 2. The Law Commission is aware that making direct
recommendation in International Law is not within its
jurisdiction. Nevertheless, we recommend incidentally that

there is an urgent need to have an International Court of
Civil Aviation. It is in the interest to prevent the crime
of international civil aviation. The proposed court will
deal with the crimes of Air--Hijacking, mischief in the air
service, etc. where the jurisdiction will arise in two or
more countries. It is expected from the Government of India
to take up this recommendation with the International Comity
as and when possible. "NM" (Para 10.25) 3. About the crime of "Hijacking of Vehicles" etc.,
the Following Clause 2 in Section 362A may be inserted in the IPC . The Law Commission also recommends that Clauee(1) as
proposed in the the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978 may be omitted. The Clause (2) may be read as under: 4. Clause 179 of the IPC (Amendment) Biii, 1978 to
amend Section 432 may be dropped. (Para 10.30) 5. The words "helicopter, air--g1ider etc." may be
inserted in Section 2 (a) of the Anti--Air Hijacking Act 1982,
as we11 as in the Suppression of Uniawfui Acts Against Safety
of Civil Aviation Act, 1982. (Para 10.30) -: 363 :-- Therefore, we recommend that an ExpTanation 3 may

be inserted in Section 29 of the IPC on the foliowing Tines:-- (Para 11.08) 2. If the proposed amendment in Section 29 is carried

out then there would a1so be a need for consequentiai
amendment of the term of the "document" under Section 3 of
the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 on the lines indicated above. (Para 11.08) --: 364 :- 13.15. CHAPTER - XII

THE INDIAN PENAL CODE (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1978

We have carefu11y perused the IPC (Amendment) B111,
1978 which have 151 amendments, 95 substitutions, 32
omissions and 25 insertions. The changes proposed in the
Bi11 contempiate to bring about the basic penai statute of
this country updated to remove 1acuna and make it usefu1 for
meeting the optimum needs. We find that some of the changes
contempiated go beyond the recommendations made by the Law
Commission in its 42nd Report. Therefore, we think it

necessary to re--examine a11 ciauses of the Bi11. 1. The amendments sought in ciauses 1, 6, 7, 8, 12
16, 39, 40, 44, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60,

61, 62, 65, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80,

200, 202, 206 and 207 are on1y inconsequential and the name
may be carried out. (Para 12.02) 2. C1au§es 2 tQ~B - By these ciauses, some amendments

are sought in Sections 4 to 17 of the Code. We do not

recommend any changes in Section 8 , 9 and 11 of the IPCETTA --: 365 :- Consequentiy, clauses 2 to 8 of the Bi11 have to be de1eted_
Remaining amendments in various Sections are pertaining to

various words and expianations used in the Code and the same

are based mainiy on 42nd Report. (Para 12.03) 3. Ciause 9* By virtue of this ciause Sections 18 to 21 are sought to be substituted. we are of the View that unless major changes are
brought out, it is not desirabie to insert new ciause and
make them amenabie to any of the reievant penal provisions. (Para 12.04) 4. Clause 10 -- By virtue of this ciause, the
definition in the existing Section 25 is sought to be

substituted. We agree to the proposed substitution. (Para 12.05) 5. Qlayse 1] -- By this ciause, an amendment in Section 29 of the IPC is sought. In view of the changes in the audio and video
technoiogy and computers, it is recommended that foilowing
Explanation (3) may be added to the existing Section. (Para 12.06) 6. Clause 12 -- In this ciause, existing Sections 31 , 32 and 33 which define the word "wi11" are
sought to be omitted. On examining, we are of the view that there is no
harm in retaining the existing Sections 31 , 32 and 33 of the
IPC. Therefore, Ciause 12 has to be omitted. (Para 12.07) 7. Ciause 13 ~ By virtue of this ciause, the
words "severa1 persons" whenever they occur are sought to be

substituted by the words "two or more persons". we are of the view that by carrying out this
amendment the ianguage of Section 34 becomes more expiicit.
For the same reason the expression "severa1 persons" (Para 12.08) 8. Ciause 14 -- Under this ciause it is proposed

to substitute Section 40 by another Section. We recommend that Section 40 may be substituted on

the fo11owing iines - (Para 12.09) 9. Clause 15 -- By this Ciause Section 43 is

sought to be substituted by a new Section. We agree that Section 43 needs amendment as sought
in this clause. {Para 12.10) 10. Ciause 16 ~ Under this ciause, existing
Sections 48, 49 and 50 defining words "vessel, year, month,
Section" respectiveiy are sought to be omitted for the

reasons that they are defined in the Generai Ciauses Act. we are of the view that these Sections need not to
be omitted and according1y Ciause 16 of the 8111 has to be
deieted. (Para 12.11) -: 368 :- 11. C1ause 17 -- The existing Section 52 defines
the word "good faith" and Section 52A defines the word
"harbour". As per this c1ause, both these Sections are to be

substituted by new Sections. we agree to the substitution of Sections 52 and
52A. (Para 12.12) 12. C1ause 18 -- Under this clause, the existing
Section 53 is sought to be substituted. we do not endorse the addition of new forms of

punishments except pubiic censure. (Para 12.13) 13. C1ause 19 -- Under this ciause Sections

54 , 55 and 55A of the Indian Penal Code are sought to be omitted. We agree and are of the view that ciause 19 is very
appropriate in view of the changes in the Cr.P.C .. (Para
12.14) 14. C1ause 20 -- Under this clause the words

"imprisonment for 20 years", are sought to be substituted by

the words "rigorous imprisonment for 20 years". We agree to the proposa1. (Para 12.15) 15. C1ause 21 -- By virtue of

this ciause,

Sections 64 and 65 are to be substituted. We are of the view that the proposed amendments are
incidentai and they may be carried out.
(Para 12.16) 16. C1ause 22 -- By this ciause Section 66 of the

IPC is sought to be omitted. In view of the revised Sections 64 and 65, Section
66 may be omitted. (Para 12.17) 17. Ciause 23 -- Under this ciause, Sections 67 and 68

are sought to be substituted. we are of the view that the existing Sections may

be substituted. (Para 12.18) 18. Ciause 24 - Under this ciause the existing

Section 69 providing for termination of imprisonment on

payment of proportional part of fine is sought to be omitted. we are of the view that this omission is necessary

in view of the new revised Section 68. (Para 12.19) 19. Ciause 25 - Under this oiause the existing
Sections 70, 71 and 72 providing for the iimitation of time
for ievy of fine and iimit of punishment in case made of
severai offences are sought to be substituted. We are of the view that amended Sections are
comprehensive and the amendments may be carried out. (Para 12.20) 20. Ciause 26 - Under this clause, Sections 73
and 74 providing for soiitary confinement by way of
punishment is sought to be omitted. We are of the view that it is necessary to omit
these two Sections. (Para 12.21)

21 C1au§§~2 ~ Under this ciause new Sections
74A, 748, 740 and 74D are sought to be incorporated. we are of the view that proposed Sections 74A and
748 need not to be incorporated. We aiso do not recommend

incorporation of new Section 74D. Consequently, the new -2 371 :- We are of the view that with the ciassificationsi
indicated, Section 94 may be substituted. We aiso recommend
that the proposed new Section 94A and 948 be deieted from
ciause 31. If necessary some of such provisions may be added
in the other enactments inciuding the Companies Act to
strengthen the same to meet such a situation. (Para 12.23) 23. C1auses 32 to 37 -- Under these clauses, some of the
existing Sections relating to right qf private defence of
persons and property are either sought to be amended or
substituted. However, in the Biii, no change in respect of

Sections 96 to 98 is mooted. (ii) We recommend that the third paragraph in the
existing Section be included in the proposed Section and
rearrange the ciauses. (Para 12.24) -: 372 :- (iii) We are of the view that the proposed change in

Section 100 is appropriate. (iv) Ciause 34 seeks an amendment in the existing
Section 101. This change appears to be appropriate. (v) In the proposed Section 103 of the Biii, there is a

new ciause (d) reiating to the offences of mischief to
property, house, or intended to be used for the purpose of
Government or any corporation. Two more new ciauses (e) and (f) are sought to be added in the proposed Section. In this context, it is recommended that if the new

Section 362A is to be added then there is no need of clause (e). Clause (f) can be retained but may be renumbered as (e). (vi) Under clause 36, a minor amendment to Section 104
is proposed. We are of the view that the changes may be

carried out. (Para 12.24) 24. Ciause 37 - Under this clause, the existing
Section 105 is sought to be substituted by a new Section

bearing the same number. ~: 373 :~

we are of the view that in the proposed new c1ause

(C), the words "hijacking of aircraft" have to be omitted

(Para 12.25) 25. C1auses 38 to 44 -- (i) Ciauses 38 of the Ipc
(Amendment) Biii, 1978 has incorporated some changes,
Section 108 as mentioned in clause 38 is in conformity with
the recommendation made by the Law Commission in its" 42nd
Report and, therefore, we do not recommend any further

change. (Para 12.26) (ii) Under clause 39, changes sought are minor in nature

and are warranted. (iii) The changes suggested in clauses 40-44 are

warranted. (Para 12.26) 26. C1ause 45 -- Under this clause, a new Chapter
VB seeks to insert new Sections 120C and i2OD defining
attempt and punishment For offence of attempt. The existing

Section 511 is aiso sought to be omitted.'

We have carefuiiy examined this clause and
recommend that Section 511 be retained and this clause be

deieted. (Para i2.27) -: 374 :- 27. C1ause 47 -- Under this c1ause, a new section

123A is sought to be inserted. We are of the view that the proposed Section may be

inserted. (Para 12.28) 28. C1ause 48 -- Under this ciause, the existing
Section 124A which deais with Sedition is sought to be
substituted by a new Section bearing the same number. we

agree. we are of the view that the proposed Section 1248

need not be inserted. (Para 12.29)

293 C1ause 52 -- Under this ciause, the existing
Chapter VII is sought to be substituted by a new Chapter

bearing the same number. We are of the view that there is no harm in

substituting the existing chapter. (Para 12.30) -: 375 :- 30. Ciause 54 -- By this ciause, a new section
147A is sought to be added. we agree with the proposed insertion. (Para 12.31) 31. C1ause 58 ~ Under this ciause, a new Section
153C is sought to be added. We agree that Section 153C may be added. 32. Ciauses 63 & 64 -- Ciauses 63 and 64 of the Biii
seek amendments in Sections 161, 162. and 163 IPC . Since these Sections had aiready been repealed by
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and transposed

thereto, ciauses 63 and 64 have to be, therefore, omitted. 33. Ciause 66 Under this oiause, a new Section 166A is
sought to be inserted. we are of the view that the proposed Section 156A
may be inserted. (Para 12.34) 34. Ciause 68 -- Under this Ciause, a new Section

167A is sought to be inserted in Chapter IX. we agree that the proposed Section may be inserted. (Para 12.35)

~: 376 :- 35. C1ause 91 - Under this ciause, twc new
Sections 198 A and 198 B are sought to be added in Chapter
XI. we think that addition of new Sections 193A and
1988 is unnecessary. Consequentiy, ciause 91 has to be
omitted. (Para 12.36) 36. Clause 93 -- By this ciause, a new Section

207A is sought to be added. We are of the view that the new Section 207A may be

inserted in the Code. (Para 12.37) 37. C1ause 94 -- By this ciause, the existing
Section 211 is sought to be substituted by a new Section with

the same number. The change proposed is an appropriate one. (Para 12.38) 38. C1ause 100 ~ By this clause, the existing
Section 229 is sought to be substituted by the two new

Sections, nameiy, 229 and 229A. We are of the view that both the Sections are very

much needed in the Code. (Para 12.39) 39. Ciause 110 -- By this ciause, a new Section

254A is sought to be inserted in the Code. We are of the view that the new Section may be

inserted in the Code. (Para 12.40) 40. C1ause 111 Under this ciause, for Section 263A of
the Code, new Sections 263A, 2638 and 2630 are sought to be

substituted. We agree to the proposai. (Para 12.41) 41. C1ause 112 By this ciause, the substitution of
words "two years" for "one year" in the Sections 264-267 is

sought to be contempiated. we agree to the proposal. (Para 12.42) 42. Ciause 119 -- Under this ciause, a new Section

279A is sought to be inserted. Having regard to the increase in the volume of road
traffic and indiscriminate use of vehicles whether they are
roadworthy or not, such a provision is very much needed. (Para 12.43) 43. Clause 122 - Under this clause, a new

sub--Section is sought to be inserted in Section 292 of the

IPC. we are of the view that the proposed amendment
would be appropriate addition. However, we are of the view
that the sentence may be made "three years" in Section 292 in
place of "two years" to be on par with the new secion 292A. (Para 12.44) 44. Clause 123 -- Under this clause, after Section
292, a new Section 292A is sought to be inserted to deal with
an offence of printing etc. of grossly indecent or

scurrilous matter or matter intended for blackmail. we are of the view that Section 292A may be
inserted. (Para 12.45) -I 379 :- 45. Ciause 124 - The existing Section 294A deals
with offence of keeping 1ottery office. By this ciause this
Section is sought to be substituted by a new Section. New
Section 2948 for sa1e distribution etc. of iottery tickets

is a1so sought to be added. The proposai is saiutary one. (Para 12.46) 46. Ciause 125 -- By this ciause, Section 302 is
sought to be substituted by the new Section bearing the same

number. We are of the view that this ciause may be deieted
as there is no need of any amendment in Section 302. (Para 12.47) 47. Ciause 128 -- Under this clause, a new Section

3048 is sought to be inserted. At the outset we must point out that in 1986 by
amending Act 43 of 1986, the exisitng Section 304 8 deaiing

with dowry death was inserted. Therefore, we recommend that this may be inserted
in Section 304A as sub--section (2). (Para 12.48) -: 380 :- 48. C1ause 130 -- Under this ciause, Sections 307

and 308 are sought to be substituted. We are of the view that there is no need to disturb
the existing Sections 307 and 308 of the Code except the

second part of existing Section 307. (Para 12.49) 49. ' Ciause 131 -- Under this ciause, the existing
Section 309 which makes attempt to commit suicide punishabie

is sought to be omitted. We are of the view that the existing Section 309
has to be retained and the clause be omitted. (Para 12.50) 50. Ciause 134 -- Under this ciause, the existing
Section 320 defining grievous hurt is sought to be

substituted. We are of the view that the proposed changes are
oniy peripheral, but a 1itt1e more expianarative. Therefore,

that can be carried out. (Para 12.51) -: 381 :- 51. C1ause 137 ~ Under this c1ause, the existing
Section 328 is sought to be substituted by a new Section. In
content, both the Sections are same except in the new Section
in piace of "unwho1esome drug or other thing" the words
"unwhoiesome substance" are inserted which are of same effect

but Tittie wider. (Para 12.52) 52. C1ause 144 -- Under this clause, the existing

Sections 341 to 344 are sought to be substituted. We are of the view that the number of persons on
the basis of constructive iiability can be Timited to two or
more persons as we find in the proposed amendment in Sections
34 , 35 and 38 IPC. Therefore, the proposed ciause may be
amended accordingiy. (Para 12.53) 53. Ciause 146 -- Under this ciause, a new Section
354A dealing with offence of indecent assauit on a minor is

sought to be inserted. we are of the view that this clause has to be
omitted. (Para 12.54) 54. Ciause 149 -- Under this clause. the existing

Section 362 is sought to be substituted by the new Section. we are of the view that the proposed change may

eniarge the meaning of abduction and the same may be carried

out. (Para 12 55' 55. Ciause 151 -- Under this clause, a new Section

364A deaiing with offences of kidnapping is sought to be

inserted. Having regard to the present crime scenario at :h'3
nature, the new Section is a saiutary one and, the :ame ': 56. Clause 152 -- Under this clause, the e '3""; (D
(D

Section 366 and 366A are sought to be substituted by ih " (Para 12.59) 59. Ciause 160 -- Under this clause, the existing

Section 377 is sought to be substituted by a new Section.
We endorse the substitution on the lines suggested
in Chapter IX. (Para 12.60) 60. Ciause 161 -- (i) Under this ciause, the
existing Sections 380 and 381 are sought to be substituted. Aiso a new Section 380A is proposed to be inserted. The changes may be carried out. (Para 12.61} -: 384 :- (ii) Simiiariy, a new Section 381A needs to be

inserted

in the Code. (Para 12.62) 61. C1ause 162 - Under this ciause, a new Section
385A is sought to be inserted. The proposed Section is
intended to cover an offence of biackmaiiing with the
dishonest intention. we are of the view that the new Section deaiing

with such offences is very necessary and insertion may be

carried out. (Para 12.63) 62. Ciause 163 -- Under this clause, the words
"may be punished with imprisonment for iife" occurring in

Sections 388 and 389 are sought to be substituted with

imprisonment of iesser periods. we are of the view that the substitution of the
words "may be punished with imprisonment for iife" with
"lesser periods of sentence" is caiied for.
(Para 12.64) 63. Ciause 164 -- Under this c1ause, Section 396

is sought to be substituted. we are of the view that no change in this section

is necessary. (Para 12.65) 64. C1aq§§§;1§§_§_j§§_; Under these ciauses, the
words "uses any deadly weapon, or" in Section 397 is sought
to be omitted and in Section 398 after the words "at the time
of" the words "COmm1tting or" are sought to be inserted and

for the words "seven years", the words "five years" are

sought to be substituted. we are of the view that it is better to retain the

existing words and the said ciauses may be omitted. (Para 12.66) 65. C1au$§_l§l_: Under this ciause, in Section

399 for the words "ten years")the words "seven years" are

sought to be substituted. we are of the view that as the offence in this
section is with reference to making preparation, making the
sentence iesser appears to be proportionate. (Para 12.67) 66. Ciause 168 -- Under this ciause, a new Section

399A is sought to be inserted. -: 386 :~

We agree to the proposai and the required change

may be carried out. (Para 12.68)

; 67. C1auses 169 and 170 -- By virtue of these

Ciauses, a few words in

Section 400-402 are sought to be

substituted. The proposed changes are on1y consequentia1 and we

are of the View that the same may be carried out. (Para 12.69) 68. C1ause 171 -- A new Expianation I is sought to
be added in Section 403. We are of the view that the proposed changes may be
brought about. (Para 12.70) 69. C1ause 172-173 -- Under these ciauses, some minor
changes are proposed in Sections 404 and 408.
We are of the view that the proposed changes may be
carried out. (Para 12.71) 70. Ciause 174 -- Under this clause, the word
"factor" occurring in Section 409 is sought to be omitted -2 387 :- 71. Ci§U3$,i75mT Under this clause, the existing

Section 410 is sought to be substituted. We are of the view that the proposed new Section is

appropriate and may be carried out. (Para 12.7

(A) 72. Clause 176 ~ By this clause, the existing Sections

411 and 414 are sought to be amended. we agree to the amendments in both the Sections. (Para 12.74) 73. Clause 177 -- Under this clause, the existing

Section 415 is sought to be substituted. we are of the view that the substitution may be
carried out but we may also mention that it would be better
to retain the existing illustrations in the Section. (Para 12.75)

'Z JOO 2' 74. Clause 178 -- Under this clause, Section 420

 

is sought to be substituted. New Sections namely, Section

420A, 4208 and 420C are also sought to be inserted. The proposed changes may be carried out. (Para 12.76) 75. Clause 179 - Under this clause, the existing
Sections 426 to 432 are sought to be substituted by new

Sections covering in general the offence of mischief. (i) we have examined new Sections 426 to 431 and
recommend that the sentence of "three years" prescribed under

each of these Sections may be enhanced to "five years". (ii) About Section 432, it may be mentioned that after
the IPC (Amendment) Bill, 1978, special legislations were
brought in 1982 which were amended in 1994, as mentioned in

Chapter X. we recommend deletion of new Section 362A. For the same reasons, we recommend that Section 3A of the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against Safety of Civil
Aviation Act, 1982(SUACA) may be amended. If amendments to
Section 3A of this Act is not to be carried out in the same
manner, then the proposed Section 432 may be retained in the
clause, but the sentence under Section 432 may be brought 1" 76. Ciause 180 - Under this c1ause, the new

Sections 434 to 440 are sought to be substituted. (i) We recommend that the word "Aircraft" occuring in
the proposed Section 434 may be omitted in view of our

suggestion made in Chapter X. (ii) In respect of other types of mischief regarding
aircraft, Section 3A of the SUACA is to be amended. if not,
the Section as proposed may be retained and the sentences be

brought in accordance with Section 3A of the SUACA Act. (iii) In the proposed Section 438, the sentence of three

years may be enhanced to five years. (Para 12.78}

2/. Clause 181 -- Under this ciause, Section Adi

is sought to be substituted. However, it may be mentioned that the proposed
amendment does not carry any substantiai change. (Para 12.79) 78. Ciause 182 -- Under this ciause, Sections

A43~46O are sought to be substituted. -2 390 :- 79. Clause 183 -- Under this clause, Chapter XVIIA

is sought to be introduced by way of inserting Section 462A. we are of the view that this new Chapter dealing
with offences relating to private employment is not
necessary. So consequently this clause may be omitted. (Para 12.81) 80. Clause 184 -- By this clause, an amendment is
sought to be inserted in Section 464 of the IPC. we recommend that an Explanation 3 in Section 464 of the IPC on the following lines may also be added-- Explanation 3. -- Knowingly committing forgery of

a copy of a document or knowingly making a false

copy of a document or copying a false document

which he knows or believes to be a false document,

with the intention that he or another shall use it

to induce somebody to accept it as a Copy of a

genuine document to do or not to do some act to his -: 391 :- own or any other person's prejudice, wi11 amount to

making a fa1se document." (Para 12.82) 81. C1ause 187 -- Under this ciause, Section 467

is sought to be amended. I

We agree to this change. (Para 12.83) 82. C1ause 188 -- By this ciause, substitution of

new Sections for existing Section 470 and 471 is sought. We recommend that the changes may be carried out. (Para 12.84) 83. C1ause 190 -- Under this ciause, the existing

Section 474 is sought to be substituted. The change suggested is oniy peripherai and the
same is endorsed. (Para 12.85) 84. C]aus0_194'; By virtue of this ciause,
certain amendments are sought to be made under the

Expianation part of Section 489A of the Code. ~: 392 :- 85. Ciause 196 -- By this ciause, a new Section

489F is sought to be inserted. we agree to the insertion of the proposed Section. (Para 12.87) 86. C1ause 197 -- Under this ciause, the existing
Chapter XIX is sought to be substituted regarding offence

against privacy. (i) Since there is a need to have separate iegisiation
on the subject, the proposed substitution may not be carried

out. (ii) We further recommend that existing Section 491 IPC
may be retained and the punishment therein may be enhanced
from "three months" to "one year" and the existing iimit of
imposing fine of Rs.200/= may be substitued by the words
"fine oniy". And the offence be made cognizabie. (Para 12.88) 87. Ciause 198 -- Under this clause, the existing

Section 494 is sought to be substituted. -: 393 :-- 88. Ciause 199 ~ Under this Ciause, the existing

Section 497 is sought to be substituted. We have already suggested some changes in Chapter
IX. In the proposed Section, the words "by the man" have to

be omitted. *

(Dara 12.90) 89. C1ause 201 -- Under this clause, the existing

Section 500 is sought to be substituted. We recommend that the changes be carried out. (Para 12.91) 90. Ciause 203 -- By this clause, the omission of

Section 505 is sought. A perusai of the proposed Section 153C under ciause
58 of the Bi11 shows that these provisions are on the Wines
of the proposed Section 158B recommended under para 8.26 of
the 42nd Report which incorporates the provisions of Section

505 (2) and (3) with certain modifications. Thus the provisions under the existing Secté
may be omitted since these are covered and transposedgg

proposed provisions as stated above. (Para 12.§z 91. C1ause 204 -- By virtue of this ciause, a ﬁngwy

i'i'='."-:.i 

Section 507A is proposed to be inserted. We endorse the proposai. (Para 12.93) 92. Ciause 206 -- V By this ciause, it is sought
that Chapter XVII, containing only Section 511, of the Indian

Penai Code shaii be omitted. We are of the view that Section 511 is working we11

A

and there is no need to omit it. We recommend accordingiy. I
./ [L C'
9+' O~C[':°""'M ' 

/
(JUSTICE K. JAYACHANDRA REDDY)
_ , CHAiRMAN

1/ ' . - Q. » .' . /W' /. »-[7
\\¥:'¥ vv ./L L vfi" _\ 'Kr L L_~\_ AV\\/\/V) /,F4- '
(UUSTICE R.L.GUPTA) (CH.G.KRISHNAMURTHY) (MRS ALICE JACOBT

MEMBER MEMBER ' MEMBER

/1
gééﬁngug
(R.L. MEENA5

MEMBER-SECRETARY