(on suit/counter claim for recovery of Rs.1,00,000/­) 1. This suit was filed by the counter claimants for 
 seeking a decree for recovery of Rs.1,00,000/­ against the 
 respondent. VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. 2. Briefly stated, case of the counter claimants is that 
 respondent joined the services of the counter claimants as 
 Finance Manager on 14.03.2011 at a monthly salary of Rs.
 40,500/­ in accordance with terms and conditions contained 
 in appointment letter dated 07.03.2011. That respondent was 
 initially appointed on probation period of 3 months, subject 
 to further extension or reduction of the said probation period 
 on the basis of his performance. That respondent was 
 directed to perform his duties in the office of M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd and was further directed to comply 
 with rules and regulations of M/s Boston Scientific India Pvt. 
 Ltd. and M/s SBM Solutions Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. That 
 respondent miserably failed to comply with the said 
 guidelines specially with regard to attendance rules. That his 
 performance was also not satisfactory. That upon receiving 
 complaints from M/s Boston Scientific India Pvt. Ltd., 
 respondent was given verbal counseling during the months of 
 June, July, November and December 2011 with directions to 
 improve his standard and conduct. That respondent also 
 committed an act of grave misconduct by obtaining data and 
 information pertaining to counter claimants in an 
 unauthorized manner and that respondent was reprimanded 
 for the same. That respondent thereafter accepted his 
 responsibility and apologized for the same. That counter 
 claimants never confirmed the services of the respondent due 
 to non satisfactory performance. That respondent was paid 
 an amount of Rs.27,000/­ as retention bonus upon CS No. 28/2013 Page 2 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. completion of six months of his service with the hope that 
 this will improve the standard of his performance. That since 
 the respondent failed to improve his performance, his 
 services were terminated in accordance with terms and 
 conditions of his appointment. That annual contract between 
 the counter claimants and M/s Boston Scientific India Pvt. 
 Ltd. was not renewed on account of misconduct of the 
 respondent. That counter claimants have, thus, suffered huge 
 financial loss. That counter claimants have also suffered loss 
 of reputation and credibility due to unsatisfactory 
 performance and misconduct of the respondent. Hence, the 
 present suit/counter claim for recovery of Rs.1,00,000/­ as 
 compensation for financial losses and loss of image and 
 reputation. 3. Upon service of summons of the present suit, 
 respondent appeared and filed his written statement (WS) 
 denying the allegations as contained in the counter claim. It 
 was further submitted on behalf of the respondent that the 
 present counter claim has only been filed as a counter blast to 
 the suit filed by the respondent against the counter claimants. 
 That the monthly salary of the respondent was Rs.45,000/­ 
 and not Rs.40,500/­. That services of the respondent were 
 confirmed after he completed the probation period of three 
 months. That respondent has never given any chance for the 
 counter claimants or M/s Boston Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. to 
 have any sort of complaint and that he performed his services CS No. 28/2013 Page 3 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. as per their satisfaction. That respondent never obtained any 
 data/information of the counter claimants. That he, however, 
 wrote mails dated 02.11.2011, 08.11.2011 etc. to HR Head for 
 getting his salary slip and thus, on 05.12.2011 one employee 
 of the counter claimants Mr. Nitin provided the said salary 
 slip to the respondent. That respondent never tendered any 
 apology but took responsibility for the entire incident by way 
 of mail dated 05.12.2011 to maintain peace and good 
 relations. The counter claimants had paid retention bonus to 
 the respondent as he was performing his duties diligently. 
 That contract between the counter claimants and M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. was not renewed as M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. had absorbed the services of an ex­
 employee of the counter claimants namely Mr. Rajat Saha. 
 That counter claimants are not entitled to recover any 
 amount from the respondent. Hence, the present 
 suit/counter claim be dismissed. 4. Counter claimants filed replication to the WS of the 
 respondent denying the preliminary objections and other 
 averments as contained in the WS. Averments as contained 
 in the counter claim were once again reiterated by way of the 
 replication. 5. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, 
 following issues were framed vide order dated 18.05.2013 :­ 1. Whether the counter claimants are entitled to recovery of CS No. 28/2013 Page 4 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. sum of Rs. 1,00,000/­ as compensation against the 
 respondent? OPC 2. Whether the present counter claim is filed to harass the 
 respondent and the same is counter blast to the main 
 suit of the respondent? OPR 3. Relief. 6. In order to prove their case, counter claimants 
 examined counter claimant no.1 as CW­1. Respondent 
 requested that cross examination of CW­1 conducted in main 
 case bearing no.20/2013 be adopted as his cross examination 
 in this case also, which request was allowed. Thereafter, 
 counter claimant evidence was closed. Respondent also 
 adopted his affidavit filed in CS no.20/2013 as his evidence in 
 the present counter claim. Cross examination of respondent 
 Vipul Jain conducted in CS no.20/2013 was adopted as his 
 cross examination in the present counter claim by the 
 counter claimants. 7. I have heard the contentions of both the sides and 
 also gone through the record carefully. My issue­wise findings 
 are as under: 8. The onus to prove this issue was upon the counter 
 claimants. Ld. Counsel for the counter claimants has argued CS No. 28/2013 Page 5 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. that respondent was responsible for termination and non­
 renewal of contract of defendant no.2 with M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. However, there is absolutely no 
 evidence whatsoever in this regard. In fact, CW­1 Vikas Goel 
 has admitted in his cross examination that there is no 
 documentary evidence to show that plaintiff had not 
 performed satisfactorily at M/s Boston Scientific India Pvt. 
 Ltd. Also, admittedly there is not even an iota of evidence 
 regarding the alleged complaints made by M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. against the plaintiff. There isno 
 communication received from M/s Boston Scientific India 
 Pvt. Ltd. to the effect that they ended their contract with the 
 counter claimants on account of misconduct of the 
 respondent. Further, CW­1 has admitted in his cross 
 examination that only oral warnings were given to the 
 respondent regarding the alleged complaints. Also, counter 
 claimants have not examined any witness from M/s Boston 
 Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. to substantiate their allegations 
 against the plaintiff. In these circumstances, it appears highly 
 unlikely that contract of the counter claimants with M/s 
 Boston Scientific India Pvt. Ltd. was terminated on account of 
 the misconduct and substandard performance of the 
 respondent. 9. Ld. Counsel for the counter claimants has further 
 argued that respondent had indulged in unauthorized data 
 theft. However, again the allegations regarding the said data CS No. 28/2013 Page 6 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. theft are absolutely vague and without any proof whatsoever. 
 Counter claimants have failed to mention as to what kind of 
 data was stolen by the respondent and on or around which 
 dates. It must also be mentioned here that counter claimants 
 have submitted that respondent had tendered a written 
 apology regarding the said data theft. However, the said 
 written apology containing the admission of the respondent 
 regarding the alleged data theft has not been placed on record 
 of the present case by the counter claimants for reasons best 
 known to them. Ld. Counsel for the counter claimants has 
 argued that as per email dated 05.12.2011 (Ex.PW1/5), 
 respondent had admitted that he had stolen data. However, I 
 do not find any merit in this argument. Ex.PW1/6 is an email 
 which is not accompanied by certificate under Section 65 B of 
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and hence, cannot be read into 
 evidence. It must also be noted here that counter claimants 
 had denied the said email during conduction of 
 admission/denial of documents. Hence, they now cannot rely 
 upon the same. However, since reference to the same has 
 been made by the counter claimants, I deem it appropriate to 
 mention here that the said email Ex.PW1/6 is only regarding 
 salary slips and reimbursement slips taken by the respondent 
 concerning himself. The same cannot be regarded as an 
 incident of data theft by any stretch of imagination. There is 
 no proof regarding counter claimants suffering any financial 
 loss or loss of credibility due to the acts of the respondent. 
 Thus, issue no.1 is decided against the counter claimants and CS No. 28/2013 Page 7 of 8 VIPUL JAIN VS VIKAS GOEL AND ANR. in favour of the respondent. ISSUE NO.2 
 Whether the present counter claim is filed to harass 
 the respondent and the same is counter blast to the 
 main suit of the respondent? OPR 10. The onus to prove this issue was upon the 
 respondent. However, no evidence has been led in proof 
 thereof. Merely because counter claimants have failed to 
 prove their case, it cannot be said that the present case was 
 filed to harass the respondent. Hence, issue no.2 is decided in 
 favour of the counter claimants and against the respondent. Relief: 11. As a consequence to my findings on the above 
 mentioned issues, suit of the counter claimants is dismissed. 
 Parties to bear their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared 
 accordingly. 12. File be consigned to the record room after due 
 compliance. Announced in the open Court
on 22.03.2014
 (Rajat Goyal) 
 CJ­04 (South)/Saket Courts
 New Delhi/22.03.2014 CS No. 28/2013 Page 8 of 8