PER BENCH

All these appeals are filed by the assessee and the Cross Objections are filed by
the Revenue. These appeals arise out of separate orders passed by the
Assessing Officer (hereinafter referred to as 'AO') u/s 143(3) read with section
144C(13) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act') for
Assessment Years (hereinafter referred to as the 'AY' ) 2003-04, 2004-05,
2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10 and 2010-11 respectively. As the issues arising in
all these appeals are common, for the sake of convenience they are heard
together and disposed of by way of a common order. Both parties have agreed
that the appeal for the A.Y. 2007-08 in ITA 221/Del/2013 be taken as the lead
case and the decision in this appeal can be applied for all the other appeals.
Hence we first take up the appeal for the AY 2007-08, i.e. ITA No
221/Del/2013. ITA.No.221/Del/2013- AY 2007-08
For the subject AY, Assessee has raised 13 grounds out of which, ground No.1
is general in nature and therefore does not require adjudication. The other
grounds are briefly summarized by the assessee as below:- (c) Ground 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3
The learned DRP and the AO erred in holding that the assessee has a Fixed
place, Installation and Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment ('PE') in
India within the meaning of Article 5 of the Tax Treaty. (d) Ground 6 and 6.1
The learned DRP and the AO erred in holding that the revenue earned from
supply of software and rendering of maintenance and professional services to
customers located in Sri Lanka and Middle East as "Royalty"/"FTS" under Section 9(1)(vi) /(vii) of the Act and under Article 12 of the Tax Treaty. (e) Ground 7 and 8
Without prejudice to assessee's contention on non-taxability of revenue
mentioned in Ground 2 to 6, the AO has erred in taxing the revenue from
supply of software earned and rendering of maintenance and professional
services to customers located in India Sri Lanka and Middle East as
"Royalty"/"FTS" on gross basis @15% and also proceeded to attribute the
income to the alleged PE thereby, resulting in double taxation of income. (f) Ground 9
Without prejudice to assessee's contention on non-taxability of revenue
mentioned in Ground 2 to 6, the AO has wrongly applied the rate of 15% on
supply of software and hardware and services to customers located in India,
Sri Lanka and Middle East, as "Royalty"/"FTS" without considering the date of
execution of the agreement and the provisions of section 115A of the Act (i.e.
on or after June 2005 in accordance with section 115A of the Act) (g) Ground 10,10.1 and 10.2 4 While arriving that the profits attributable to the PE, the learned AO was wrong
in not allowing deduction of the remuneration paid to Aspect India by the
Assessee, despite directions to this effect in Article 12(7)(b) of the Tax Treaty. (h) Ground 11,11.1.11.2 and 11.3
The AO has earned in holding that the Transfer Pricing provisions are
applicable to the Appellant. Further, that the AO has wrongly rejected the
Transfer pricing analysis of Aspect India and initiated penalty proceedings for
not submitting the TP report and not maintaining TP documents. (i) Ground 12, 12.1 and 13
Challenging the levy of interest under section 234B of the Act and initiation of
penalty proceedings under section 271(1)(c) of the Act. Assessee also placed on record paper books in two volumes, from pages 1 to
308 and from pages 1 to 201. Facts in brief:- Hence, it qualifies to be technical and commercial equipment. 9. The DRP confirmed the action of the AO and held that the customer is
getting a right to use the software, which can be used for internal operations in
business of the customer. The nature of software is far from being 'shrink
wrapped software'. Hence, the said software falls within the ambit of section
9(1)(vi) of the Act and the Tax Treaty. 10. The learned counsel for the assesee submitted that, the Assessee sells
contact solutions and enterprise workforce optimization solutions (herein after
referred to as "product" or "contact solutions"), to the call center companies in
India and other countries. The contact solution is a combination of both
hardware and software components that enables the customer of Aspect US to
answer customer request, log in complaints and route communications. The
customer buys a complete solution which is manufactured outside India. The
software and hardware are both integral parts of the contact solutions which
the assessee sells to the end user and Channel Partners in India. The contract
is between Aspect US and the customer directly. The software is provided on a
Compact Disk and is shipped directly to the end user/ Channel Partner as the
case may be. In support of her submissions, the learned Counsel invited our
attention to the invoices raised on customers and to Clauses 1 and 5 of the
agreement between Aspect US and Infovision Information Services (P) Ltd (page
83 to 116 of PB 1) forming part of paper book-I, to demonstrate that what is 9 sold to the customer, is product comprising of hardware and software
embedded in it. It was also submitted that the hardware and software sales are
made outside India by Aspect US and the title and risk of goods is passed to
the end customers outside India. Therefore, in view of the decision of the
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT vs. Ericsson A.B. ( Supra) 470) and the Hon'ble Delhi ITAT decisions in the case of Huawei Technologies
Co. Ltd vs. ADIT (ITA No 5253/ De/ 2011), the revenue from licensing of
software cannot be taxed as " Royalty" under the provisions of Sec. 9(1)(vi)(c) of
the Act and under Article 12 (3) of the Tax Treaty. 11. Without prejudice to the above, the learned counsel submitted that in
terms of the agreement with the Indian customers for supply of software, the
software license does not grant the customer any right in the copyright. The
customer is granted only a, non- exclusive, non -transferable right to use the
software (i.e. licensed product) solely and exclusively for internal use. The
assessee retains all the intellectual property rights in the software and merely
provides a copy of the computer programme to the customer, with a limited
right to use the licensed product (i.e. the computer programme in machine
readable, object code form) for non productive archival and backup purposes or
to replace a worn or defective copy. 12. She submitted that the definition of royalty envisages payment for
transfer of right to use the intellectual property (such as copyright, patent, etc.)
by the owner of such intellectual properties to any other person. Essentially
royalty accrues to the owner of the copyright as consideration for commercial
exploitation of the intellectual property in the copyright which is the exclusive
property of the Copyright owner. Transfer of a copyrighted right means that the
recipient has a right to commercially exploit the software (example reproduce,
duplicate etc). The payment for such a right is classified as royalty. 13. She further submitted that copyright actually vests in a person only
when he has an exclusive right to do all or any of the acts specified under the
Indian copyright Act 1957. Mere making copies of a computer program for the
limited purposes described in section 52(1)(aa) of the Indian Copyright Act
does not infringe the copyright in such program and therefore does not involve
the use of any copyright. Section 52(1)(aa) /(ad) of the Indian Copyright Act provides that, making of copies or adaptation of a computer programme by the
lawful possessor of a copy of such computer programme, in order to utilise the
computer programme for the purposes for which it was supplied; or to make
back-up copies purely as a temporary protection against loss, destruction or
damage, in order only to utilise the computer programme for the purpose for
which it was supplied; or making of copies or adaptation of the computer
programme from a personally legally obtained copy for non-commercial
personal use does not amount to infringement of copyright. It was further
submitted that right to use a copyright in the software is distinct from right to
use the programme embedded in the software. She contended that payments
made for acquisition of rights in relation to the copyright which are limited to
rights which are necessary to enable the user to operate the program, classify
as "Business profits". 14. Further the Ld.Counsel submitted that, for the purpose of classifying the
nature of revenue stream to the Assessee as "royalty", the Assessee should
have granted at least, any one of the rights stated in Sec.14 of the Indian
Copyright Act. In the present case, there is no grant of any such rights
mentioned in Sec. 14(a) clause (i) to (vii) of the Indian Copyright Act to the
customer. The customer is granted only a limited right to use the copyrighted
article and various restrictions are imposed on the use of the software (as
stated in End User Agreement), such as reverse engineering , disassembling, 11 decompiling, or decoding the software or any portion of them, or using any
portion outside the scope of the license granted thereunder. Hence it was
submitted that the assessee has not transferred the copy right, but only a
copyrighted article. 15. The learned Counsel further submitted that the term "license" is not
determinative of nature of payment. The customers, in the instant case, have
no right to commercially exploit the software or the copyrights therein. The
right is a merely a limited right to use a copy of the computer program, which
is a copyrighted article. Therefore, there is a transfer of a copyrighted article
and not transfer / use of a "copyright right". Therefore, in the facts of the
instant case, the income earned from transfer of licensed product (under the
software license agreement) being in the nature of transfer of copyrighted
article does not fall under the definition of royalty either under the Act or under
the Tax Treaty. Our attention was drawn to clause 3, 8 and clause 10 of the
agreement between Aspect US and Infovision Information Services (P) Ltd to
demonstrate that that there is no transfer of copyright right but only a license
to use a copy righted article. Further, reliance was placed on the decision of the
Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (ITA No
1034/ 2009) where in the Hon'ble Court has held that limited right to use the
copyrighted material does not give rise to any royalty income. 16. Amongst many case laws cited on the subject, the Learned Counsel for
the assessee has heavily relied on the following decisions in support of her
arguments: 17. On the Revenue's contention that revenue received would qualify as
"process royalty" or" equipment royalty", the learned Counsel submitted that in
the instant case, the customers are merely provided with the object code and
not the source code to the software (where the information or knowledge
resides). The object code is sufficient to carry out the desired function i.e.
operate the software but does not convey the technical knowledge or trade
secrets of the Appellant. Accordingly, no rights in a "secret process" can be said
to be transferred. Further, she submitted that a computer software programme
cannot be classified as equipment. She invited our attention to the report of
Technical Advisory Committee constituted by the OECD to state that digital
products such as software cannot be considered as "equipment" since the word
"equipment" can apply only to a tangible product. In the instant case, the
customers are given a computer software programme and there is no
equipment of the assessee which is used by the Customer. 18. Further, she argued that despite the amendments made by the Finance
Act 2012 to the definition of "royalty", the revenues arising from the sale of
software are not taxable under the provisions of the Tax Treaty as the said
amendment shall not have any impact on the protection available under the
Tax Treaty. For this preposition, she relied on the following case laws.
 · DIT vs Ericson A.B. (343 ITR 470, Del HC)
 · Nokia Net Works OY (ITA 512/ 2007, Del HC)
 · DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd. (ITA no.1034/2009 , Del HC) 13 · Convergys Customer Group Management Inc. vs. ADIT ( 58 SOT 69, Del
 ITAT) 19. Further, she also submitted that the said revenue is not taxable under
the Act irrespective of the amendments in view of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
decision in the case of Tata Consultancy Services wherein it has been held that
computer software is "goods". Accordingly, its sale cannot result in generation
of royalty and can only be treated as sale of goods. 20. In addition to the above case laws, a number of other decisions have
been cited by the Learned Counsel for the assessee. We have gone through all
the decisions and we would be dealing with them as and when necessary. 21. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the Revenue submitted that
the taxation of the revenue from licensing of software has been dealt in
paragraphs 5 to 11 (page 14 to 41 of the assessment order). He drew our
attention to the relevant clauses of the sample agreement (pages 83 to 95 of PB -I) dealing with software and relevant clauses of the channel sales agreement
between Concerto Software Inc. ( renamed to Aspect Software Inc.) and C.S.
Infocom Pvt. Ltd, Mumbai (pages 96 to 106 of PB- I) and to another Channel
sales agreement (pages 107 to 116 of PB-I) and submitted that the channel
partner has right to sublicense the products which include software items
(clause 3 (C ) page 97 of PB -I). 22. He further submitted that the arguments of the learned Counsel of the
assessee are based on the following assertions: Therefore the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
 Ericsson and Nokia (supra) would not apply to the case of the assessee in
 respect of revenue from such customers. The learned CIT-DR also filed
 detailed submissions as to the non -applicability of Ericsson case to the
 facts of the present case. (f) On the argument of the assessee that billing is done from the USA,
 payments are made outside India and shipment is made to India, the
 learned CIT-DR submitted that it cannot be verified whether billing is
 from the USA as the same can be printed in the office of Aspect India, 16 Further, these are not signed. Otherwise also, these facts do not decide
 the taxability of the transaction. (g) Under section 14 of the Copyright Act, "copyright" means the exclusive
 right to do or authorize the doing of any of the specified acts in respect of
 a work. Therefore, only the copyright holder possesses the "exclusive
 right" to do the specified acts in respect of a work and only he can
 authorize someone else to do those acts. No one else can exercise the
 specified acts. The channel partner is granted the right to give on
 commercial rental (i.e. right to sub-license) a copy of the computer
 program. The owner of the copyright can assign either wholly or partially
 such rights to any other person. There is no requirement under the
 Copyright law that the owner of rights should grant exclusive right to the
 other to do all or any of the acts to which the author/ owner is having
 exclusive rights. 22.1. The Ld. D.R. pointed out that the Government of India Publication
"Handbook on Copyright Law" states that the expression "reproduce" as used
in Section 14(a)(i) of the Copyright Act, mean the right to make " one or more
copies". Therefore, he contended that there is no requirement that the
reproduction take place only when mass copies are produced or only if these
are produced for sale or commercial exploitation. Under the End User
Agreement, the licensee has been given right to make one copy of the software
for archival and backup purposes (clause 3(iii) of the sample agreement filed).
They are also assigned other intellectual property rights. These rights are
granted to allow the use of software and also for archival purpose. 22.2. In support of his arguments, he heavily relied upon the decision of
Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT (International Taxation) v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. ( 203 Taxmann 477 , Kar HC) and the decision
of ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Gracemac Corpn. v. Asstt. DIT (42 SOT 550). 23. He submitted that in view of the clarificatory amendment to section
9(1)(vi) ( c) of the Act made by the Finance Act 2012, the income from licensing
of software is taxable as royalty under the provisions of section 9(1)(vi)(c) of the
Act. He also relied on the following decisions of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court: 24. Further, he submitted that the second proviso to Section 9(1)(vi)(c) of the
Act excludes the applicability of clause (vi) to section 9(1) to so much of the
income by way of royalty as consists of lump sum payment made by resident
person for the transfer of all or any rights (including granting of a license) in
respect of computer or computer based equipment under any scheme approved
under the policy on computer software export, software development and
training 1986 of the Government of India. This proviso explicitly carves out the
taxation of income from the specific type of software supply only. Thus, income
from supply of software through any other arrangement is taxable as royalty.
Otherwise the second proviso would become redundant. 25. The Ld.CIT, D.R. argued that Section 115A of the Act which deals in tax
on dividends, royalty and technical service fee in the case of foreign companies
provides for tax rates on royalty or FTS. Section 115A refers to "copyright in
any book or "in respect of any computer software". This indicates that
computer software is very much covered under the definition of "royalty".
Combined reading of section 9(1)(vi) including its second proviso and section 18 115A leaves no doubt that consideration for supply / licensing of software is
taxable as royalty under the Act. 26. The Learned CIT DR submitted that the taxability of revenue from all
sources is required to be decided based on the provisions of the Income Tax Act only, since the assessee is not eligible to claim the benefits of tax treaty in view
of specific provisions in Article 24 " Limitation of Benefits" of the Indian DTAA
with the USA. Article 24 of the Tax Treaty denies the benefits of the tax treaty
to tax resident of the USA if such tax payer does not satisfy the requirements of Article 24 and in the instant case, it was submitted that the assessee is a
wholly owned subsidiary of a Cayman Islands based company (page 20 of PB I)
therefore the condition for eligibility of benefits is not satisfied. We find that
this fact is not emanating from the orders of the lower authorities and further
that this issue was not considered by any one of the lower authorities. Hence,
we have not considered it necessary to adjudicate this issue. 27. He further submitted that a tax treaty is interpreted on the basis of the
definition of the terms available in the treaty. The definition of terms is
normally given in the respective Articles. Article 3 of the Tax treaty deals with
definition of general terms used in the Tax Treaty. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 provides rules for interpretation of undefined terms. Referring to Article 3(2) of
the Tax Treaty, he submitted that any term not defined in the Convention shall
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under 28. He referred to Article 2 of the Tax treaty and submitted that it lists the
taxes to which the convention applies. In India, the Tax Treaty with USA
applies only to Income tax. Therefore, Tax Treaty with the USA only authorizes
recourse to the Income Tax Act for finding out the meaning of undefined terms. No support from Copyright Act, Sale of Goods Act or even other tax laws like
Sales Tax can be made. Therefore, the concept of "copyrighted article" borrowed
from the proposed law of the US or the commentary to the OECD Model Tax
Convention in the ITAT decision (confirmed by the High Court) in the cases of
Ericsson/ Nokia etc. is clearly not authorized under the Tax Treaty. Therefore,
these decisions are distinguished and not applicable in the present case. The
term "copyrighted article" is not defined or recognized in the Act. The
expression "use of, or the right to use any copyright" is not defined in the tax
treaties. The term used in the expression are now explicitly defined in
explanation 4 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. Transfer of all or any rights in
respect of any right , property or information includes and has always included
transfer of all or any right for use or right to use a computer software
(including granting of a license.) 29. He argued that reliance should not be placed on the OECD commentary
for interpretation of Indian tax law/ treaty. 30. Further, relying on the assessment order he submitted that the revenue
received on account of licensing of software would qualify as "process royalty" 31. In rejoinder, the learned Counsel for the assessee submitted as under: (e) No transfer of title: The Learned DR having submitted that the "title in
 software always remains with the Aspect Software Inc". If that be the
 case, how can there be any transfer of copyright, which is pre-requisite
 for sale to be taxed as royalty under the treaty? (f) Amendments to the definition of the royalty under the Act to be read into
 the Tax Treaty : The learned DR has sought to distinguish the Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court ruling in the case of Ericsson and Nokia on the ground
 that definition of the term "use of , or right to use any copyright" is not
 defined in the Tax Treaty and hence the definitions must be taken from
 the amended version of section 9 of the Act following Article 3 of the Tax
 Treaty. This issue has been considered by coordinate Bench in the case 21 of WNS North America Inc vs. ADIT (ITA No 8621/ Mum/ 2010) where in
 the Hon'ble ITAT has held that though the DTAA provides that the laws
 in force in India shall govern the taxation of income, if however a
 particular term has been specifically defined in the Treaty, the
 amendment to the definition of such term under the Act would have no
 bearing on the interpretation of such term in the context of the
 Convention. (g) The Infrasoft ruling has very clearly considered the position post the
 retrospective amendment and still held software to be not taxable as
 royalty under the treaty following the precedent laid down in case of
 Ericsson ruling. (h) Regarding the Learned DR's reliance on the Gracemac ruling, it is
 respectfully submitted that the ruling was pronounced on shrink
 wrapped software. In the present case, the software is not shrink
 wrapped software. Hence, this decision cannot be applied by the Learned
 DR. Further, the ratio of the Gracemac ruling now stands overruled by
 the Delhi High Court in the case of Infrasoft. 32. We have heard rival contentions at length. Both parties have filed
detailed submissions and other materials. We have perused all the materials on
record. The case laws cited are also considered. On a careful consideration of
all the arguments, case laws and the material on record, we hold as follows. 33. For the subject AY under appeal, the assessee has earned revenue from
licensing of software and supply of "contact solutions" to the customers in
India which is a combination of software and the compatible hardware that
enables the customers to better manage customer interactions via voice, email,
web and fax. All the contact solutions are manufactured outside India in USA 22 and the supplies are made from outside India to various customers on Ex
work/ FOB basis. The title and risk is passed outside India on shipment. 34. For the year under appeal, the assessee has contracts with 63 customers
in India for supply of contact solutions and licensing of embedded software.
The products are sold to customers in two ways: (i) directly to end users and (ii)
through channel partners (i.e. resellers and distributors). Further, 8 out of 63
customers have been sold software exclusively, implying a majority of
customers having purchased both hardware and software. Sample copies of the
agreement with the end user and the channel partners along with invoices have
been filed before us. 35. Considering the business model of the assessee with respect to supply/
licensing of software, we have considered the following sample agreements
relied by both the parties during the course of the hearing: readable, object code from only for non productive archival and backup
 purposes or to replace a worn or defective copy. Customer will not decompile, disassemble or reverse engineer the
 Products, except as and be the extent expressly authorized by applicable
 law. The interface information necessary to achieve interoperability of the
 Products will be provided by Aspect on request and upon Customer's
 payment of Aspect's reasonable costs and expenses for procuring and
 supplying such information. Customer shall not at any time remove,
 modify, obscure or otherwise alter in full or in part any copyright or other
 proprietary notice(s) of Aspect's or a third party as the same may be
 contained in or appear on the originally procured Product, or any copy or
 component thereof. Definitions - (Page 83 of PB-I)
Product- "Products" means equipment, software and Ancillary program(s) as
applicable. Equipment- "Equipment" means Aspect proprietary hardware and third party
hardware purchased from Aspect as specified on a Quotation.
Software- "Software" means Aspect's proprietary computer program in object
code form described on a Quotation. Software (and Ancillary Programs where 24 applicable) also includes all fixes and new releases provided by Aspect (or its
representatives) to customer, as well as copies thereof.
Ancillary Programs- "Ancillary Programs" means a third party computer
program(s) in object code form which is provided by Aspect for use with the
software and Equipment. Clause 8- Termination clause (Page 90 of PB-I)
Aspect may at its discretion terminate the license by written notice upon
happening of following events; (i) if the customer breaches material license
provision herein; or (ii) the customer fails to cure any other material breach of
the terms of this agreement with 30 days after receipt of written notice from
Aspect. Upon expiry or termination of the license, the customer shall immediately
return or destroy the software and ancillary programs and all copies thereof as
directed by Aspect. Clause 10- Ownership rights (Page 91 of PB-I)
All right, title and interest in and to any software, ancillary Programs and
Services deliverables provided hereunder, including, without limitation, all
intellectual property and other proprietary rights associated therewith ('IP
Materials") shall vest in and be held by Aspect and/or its third party licensors.
Such rights shall include, without limitation, as rights in patents, copyrights,
trade secrets, trademarks, inventions and mask works.
Customer shall, at Aspect's request and expense, promptly take all such action
and execute such further documents and instruments as are necessary to vest
full title in the IP Materials in Aspect. Customer's limited right to use such IP
Materials shall be also governed by the licensing and confidentiality provisions
of this Agreement. Clause 5- Payment and Shipment terms (Page 85 of PB-I) 25 · All payments accruing under this Agreement for products or services
 shall be made in United States Dollars; · Shipment shall be FOB Aspect's shipping location, with title to the
 Equipment and risk of loss to the products passing to Customer upon
 shipment

Channel Sales Agreement dt. 12th October, 2005 between Aspect Software
Inc., USA and CS Infocomm Pvt.Ltd., India

DEFINITIONS (k) "End User" means Partner's customers who are end-users of Product within
the Territory. (l) "End User Agreement" means that certain written agreement entered into by
and between Partner and End-User, pursuant to which End User shall procure
Product and Services directly from Partner. (m) "Equipment" means Concerto's proprietary equipment and third party
equipment for which partner has received specific written authorization from
Concerto and which is purchased from Concerto and specified on a Quotation. (q) "IP Materials" means any Software and Ancillary Programs (including,
without limitation, Service deliverables and Documentation) and all Concerto
Information and proprietary material. IP Materials shall include, without
limitation, all programs, program listings, programming tools, procedures,
reports, and drawings (except to the extent that such reports or drawing
contain End-User specific data or information). (r) "Marks" means trademarks, service marks, logos or other words or symbols
identifying the Products or Concerto's business including circuit layouts,
invention and mask works. (y) "Product(s)" means the Equipment, Software, Ancillary programs and
Documentation. Upon notice to Partner, Concerto may add new products to its
offerings or delete existing products subject to Partner's binding Product orders 26 accepted by Concerto prior to the date of such notice. Partner shall become
authorized to distribute and service only those new Product offerings for which
Partner has received authorization. (bb) "Services" means System Implementation Services, Training
Services, Professional/Enterprise Solutions Services, Support (Maintenance)
Services, Equipment Relocation Services, and/or Time & Materials Services
(each of which is described more fully in the Guide). (cc) "Software" means Concerto's proprietary computer programs, in
object code form, for which Partner has received appropriate Documentation,
fixes, modifications, updates, upgrades, new versions and/or copies of the
Software provided to Partner pursuant to Concerto's obligations under this
Agreement, including, without limitation, Service deliverables provided
hereunder. (c) "Software Sub-Licensing" :- User Agreement, the Software and Ancillary Programs being quoted or
furnished. (ii) The Software License terms between Partner and End-User, as same shall
be considered in every End-User Agreement and shall govern the End User's
use of the Software and Ancillary Programme, shall be no less restrictive than
the Minimum License Terms. Concerto may, in its sole discretion, modify or
replace the Minimum License Terms at any time, in whole or in part, upon
notice to Partner. Partner shall not be required to retroactively apply any such
modification to the Minimum License Terms. Partner shall also apply all 27 applicable sub-licensing procedures as same appear in the Guide as of the
effective date of the specific End-User Agreement. To the maximum extent
permitted by local law, the Software License shall be no less restrictive than the
Minimum License Terms: provided, however, that Partner shall be entitled to
use terms which are less restrictive than the Minimum License Terms if, and
only to the extent, required to comply with local law in the applicable country
within the Territory. (iii) In no event shall Partner license or deliver to any End-User or other third
party any source code for the Software or Ancillary Programs, in whole or in
part. (iv) Partner recognizes that the Ancillary Programs are licensed to Concerto by
Third Party Licensor(s) and that the functionality of the Software relies in part
on such Ancillary Programs. Partner further recognizes that Third Party
Licensors may, from time to time, impose the restrictions on the sale, license or
use of such Ancillary Programs within the Territory. Concerto shall notify
Partner of any such third party actions, but shall have no liability whatsoever
to Partner on such basis. Each Third-Party Licensor is a direct and intended
third party beneficiary of this Agreement to the extent the Agreement relates to
the Ancillary Programs, and may enforce the Agreement directly against
Partner to such extent, provided, however that no Third-Party Licensor shall be
liable to the Partner for any general, special, direct, indirect, consequential,
incidental or other damages arising out of or relating to the Ancillary Programs.
Partner hereby acknowledges that each such Third-Party Licensor fully accepts
such rights as a third party beneficiary of this Agreement and that such rights
were irrevocable. (v) Partner will effectively enforce against all its End-Users the Minimum
License Terms, specifically including, without limitation, those provisions that
affect proprietary or confidentiality rights of Concerto or its Third Party
Licensors. If Partner learns that any End-User has breached any such 28 provision, Partner will immediately notify Concerto and Partner shall take, at
its expenses, all steps that may be available to enforce the Minimum License
Terms, including availing itself of actions for seizure or injunctive relief. If
Partner fails to take these steps in a timely and adequate manner. Concerto
or its Third Party Licensors may take them in its own or Partner's name and at
Partner's expense. (vi) In the event Partner obtains or uses any item of Software and/or Ancillary
Programs for its own internal use. Partner shall be deemed to be an End-User
subject to the Minimum License Terms, in addition to the other applicable
terms of this Agreement. In the event Partner obtains or uses any item of
Software and/or Ancillary Programs for demonstration purposes such Software
and Ancillary Programs shall be provided pursuant to, shall be subject to, and
Partner hereby agrees to be bound by the Minimum License Terms except to
the extent that they may conflict with the specific provisions contained in the
main body of this Agreement. Orders and Delivery (b) Shipment & Delivery: Partner will pay or reimburse. Concerto for any insurance, brokerage,
handling, transportation, demurrage and other transport-related costs that
Concerto may incur with respect to any Concerto assistance related to delivery,
transport, or otherwise moving the Products from Concerto's distribution
center to Partner, Concerto will separately identify all reimbursable costs in its
Order confirmation or Invoice issued to Partner. (iv) Concerto shall perform or cause to be performed at its factory its standard
quality assurance test procedures on all Products to be delivered by Concerto
hereunder. Product shall be deemed to have been accepted by Partner upon
Delivery. (v) Title to the Equipment and all risk of loss to the Products shall pass to
Partner upon delivery to the common carrier. Partner, at its expense, shall
insure all Equipment against risk of loss and damage until delivered to the
destination stated in the order. Partner acknowledges that title to the Software
and Ancillary Programs shall at all times remain vested in Concerto or its
licensors and will not, under any circumstances, pass to Partner or its End-
Users. (vi) Partner may direct Concerto to make Delivery, on Partner's behalf, to a
specific shipping agent in the United States for re-shipment, as applicable,
within the Territory. Partner shall provide such special shipping instructions
either in the Order or otherwise in writing to Concerto at least 30 days prior to
the scheduled shipment date. In the absence of such special shipping
instructions, Concerto shall select a common carrier on behalf of Partner, in no
event shall Concerto be liable for shipment by common carrier nor shall such
common carrier be construed to be an agent of Concerto. 36. From the above clauses, it is evident that what is sold to the end
customer is a product comprising of both hardware and software. The software
is not separately licensed. Further, Aspect US retains all the intellectual
property rights in the software and the end user is merely provided with limited
right to use the licensed product solely for internal use. 37. Further, the learned Counsel for the assessee has filed before us a
comparative chart of the various clauses of the agreements in the case of the
assessee and that of the Agreements in the case of Ericsson A.B and Infrasoft
Ltd. (Supra). We are of the view in the light of the similarity of facts as it exists
in the case of the assessee and that of the case of Ericsson A.B. and Infrasoft
Ltd the issue relating to supply of "contact solutions" which comprises sale of
hardware and license of embedded software to end customers is squarely
covered in the favour of the assessee by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court in the case of DIT v. Ericsson A.B. (Supra). 38. In the case of Ericsson, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court was dealing with a
question as to whether the Tribunal was justified in holding that the
consideration for supply of software was not a payment by way of royalty, and
hence was not assessable both under Sec.9(1)(vi) of the Act and the relevant
clause of DTAA with Sweden. The facts of the aforesaid case were that the
assessee company was incorporated in Sweden and was one of the leading
suppliers of telecommunication equipment comprising of both, hardware and
software. The assessee company had entered into agreements with ten cellular
operators in India for supply of hardware and software. The Assessing Officer
was of the view that the income of the assessee was taxable in India, both,
under the Income-tax Act, 1961 as well as under the treaty between India and
Sweden. He held that it was business income and Assessee had a PE in India.
The CIT(A) held that the receipts in respect of license to use software which is 31 part of the hardware alone could be taxed in India as royalty. The Assessee
argued before the Tribunal that the payment made by the assessee for the use
of software in the equipment does not amount to royalty. The Tribunal in the
aforesaid context examined the issue as to whether the payment is for a
copyright or for a copyrighted article. If it is for copyright, it should be
classified as royalty, both under the Income-tax Act and under the DTAA and it
would be taxable in the hands of the assessee on that basis. If the payment is
really for a copyrighted article, then it only represents the purchase price of the
article and, therefore, cannot be considered as royalty either under the Act or
under the DTAA. The Tribunal after referring to definition of Royalty under the
Act and the definition copyright under the Copyright Act, 1957 held that what
was sold by the non- resident was a copyrighted article and payment to the non -resident was not for copyright. On further appeal by the Revenue, the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court held that income did not accrue to the non-resident by virtue
of a business connection in India and therefore the question of the Non-
resident having a permanent establishment in India did not arise for
consideration at all. On the issue whether the payment to the non resident was
of the nature of royalty which could be brought to tax in India, the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court held as follows: reads as under:- 51. The submission of Mr. Prasaran, learned ASG was that software part of the
equipment supply would attract royalty as copy right of the said software
programme still vests with the assessee. Therefore, payments made for the
licence to use the software programme give rise to "royalty" for the purposes of
both the Income-Tax Act as well as DTAA entered into between Sweden and
India. Referring to Explanation-II (v) to Section ( (1) (vi) of the Act as well as Article 13 , para-3 of DTAA, it was argued that for the purposes of Income-Tax
law, royalty is essentially a payment received as consideration for the use or
right to use a particular integral property right, whether partially or entirely. 52. We find that the Tribunal has held that there was no payment towards any
royalty and this conclusion is based on the following reasoning:- 53. Mr. Prasaran, countered the aforesaid reasoning arguing that Clause 20 of
the Supply Contract uses the term "licence" and the same term is used in the 33 context of software throughout the three Agreements, indicating that it is not an
outright sale of goods, or a full transfer of rights from the assessee to the Indian
company. He also submitted that the software is a computer programme, which
is treated differently from a book, not only in the Copyright Act, 1957 but also the Income Tax Act itself. His submission was that Section 52(1) (aa) of the Copyright
Act only deems that certain acts will not to amount to infringement in the light of
various concerns, where otherwise such acts would amount to infringement
under Section 51 of the Copyright Act. The provision cannot by itself be used to
hold that no right exists in the first place, since the scope of the right has to be
understood only from the provisions of Section 14 of the Copyright Act, 1957. He
also argued that the ITAT has misinterpreted the provisions of the DTAA,
specifically Article 13 , para 3 of the DTAA ( Article 12 , para 3 of the Model
Convention) which defines royalties to mean "payments of any kind received as a
consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic
or scientific work". The ITAT, it was submitted, has not appreciated that the
royalty is for the use or right to use any copyright. According to him, since title of
the software continued to vest with the assessee as provided in clause 20.2 of
the Supply Agreement and the assessee was free to grant non exclusive licenses
to other parties, it follow that there was no full time transfer of copyright but it
was only a case of right to use the software, and thus payment for use of
software is to be treated as royalty. He further argued that reference to OECD
Commentary was not apposite as it could not be used to interpret the scope of
the relevant provisions of DTAA. 54. It is difficult to accept the aforesaid submissions in the facts of the present
case. We have already held above that the assessee did not have any business
connection in India. We have also held that the supply of equipment in question
was in the nature of supply of goods. Therefore, this issue is to be examined
keeping in view these findings. Moreover, another finding of fact is recorded by 34 the Tribunal that the Cellular Operator did not acquire any of the copyrights
referred to in Section 14 (b) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 55. Once we proceed on the basis of aforesaid factual findings, it is difficult to
hold that payment made to the assessee was in the nature of royalty either
under the Income-Tax Act or under the DTAA. We have to keep in mind what was
sold by the assessee to the Indian customers was a GSM which consisted both of
the hardware as well as the software, therefore, the Tribunal is right in holding
that it was not permissible for the Revenue to assess the same under two
different articles. The software that was loaded on the hardware did not have
any independent existence. The software supply is an integral part of the GSM
mobile telephone system and is used by the cellular operator for providing the
cellular services to its customers. There could not be any independent use of
such software. The software is embodied in the system and the revenue accepts
that it could not be used independently. This software merely facilitates the
functioning of the equipment and is an integral part thereof. On these facts, it
would be useful to refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court in TATA
Consultancy Services v. State of Andhra Pradesh , 271 ITR 401 , wherein the
Apex Court held that software which is incorporated on a media would be goods
and, therefore, liable to sales tax. Following discussion in this behalf is required
to be noted:- ** ** **
"In Advent Systems Ltd. v. Unisys Corpn, 925 F. 2d 670 (3rd Cir. 1991), relied on
by Mr. Sorabjee, the court was concerned with interpretation of uniform civil code
which "applied to transactions in goods". The goods therein were defined as "all
things (including specially manufactured goods) which are moveable at the time
of the identification for sale". It was held : 56. A fortiorari when the assessee supplies the software which is incorporated
on a CD, it has supplied tangible property and the payment made by the cellular
operator for acquiring such property cannot be regarded as a payment by way of
royalty. 57. It is also to be borne in mind that the supply contract cannot be separated
into two viz. hardware and software. We would like to refer the judgment of
Supreme Court in CIT v. Sundwiger EMFG Co. , 266 ITR 110 wherein it was held: 58. No doubt, in an annexure to the Supply Contract the lump sum price is
bifurcated in two components, viz., the consideration for the supply of the
equipment and for the supply of the software. However, it was argued by the
learned counsel for the assessee that this separate specification of the
hardware/software supply was necessary because of the differential customs
duty payable. 59. Be as it may, in order to qualify as royalty payment, within the meaning of Section 9(1) (vi) and particularly clause (v) of Explanation-II thereto, it is
necessary to establish that there is transfer of all or any rights (including the
granting of any license) in respect of copy right of a literary, artistic or scientific
work. Section 2 (o) of the Copyright Act makes it clear that a computer
programme is to be regarded as a "literary work". Thus, in order to treat the
consideration paid by the cellular operator as royalty, it is to be established that
the cellular operator, by making such payment, obtains all or any of the copyright
rights of such literary work. In the presence case, this has not been established.
It is not even the case of the Revenue that any right contemplated under Section
14 of the Copyright Act, 1957 stood vested in this cellular operator as a
consequence of Article 20 of the Supply Contract. Distinction has to be made
between the acquisition of a "copyright right" and a "copyrighted article". 60. Mr. Dastur is right in this submission which is based on the commentary on
the OECD Model Convention. Such a distinction has been accepted in a recent
ruling of the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) in Dassault Systems KK 229
CTR 125. We also find force in the submission of Mr. Dastur that even assuming
the payment made by the cellular operator is regarded as a payment by way of
royalty as defined in Explanation 2 below Section 9 (1) (vi) , nevertheless, it can
never be regarded as royalty within the meaning of the said term in article 13 ,
para 3 of the DTAA. This is so because the definition in the DTAA is narrower 38 than the definition in the Act. Article 13(3) brings within the ambit of the
definition of royalty a payment made for the use of or the right to use a copyright
of a literary work. Therefore, what is contemplated is a payment that is
dependent upon user of the copyright and not a lump sum payment as is the
position in the present case. 61. We thus hold that payment received by the assessee was towards the title
and GSM system of which software was an inseparable parts incapable of
independent use and it was a contract for supply of goods. Therefore, no part of
the payment therefore can be classified as payment towards royalty." 39. Similar view is expressed by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Nokia Networks OY (supra). 40. As far as the cases where only the software is separately licensed (i.e.
with respect to 8 out of 63 customers to whom the assessee has licensed only
the software), the issue is squarely covered by the decision of the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Infrasoft Ltd. (supra), wherein their
Lordships held as under:-- 41. Before us, the learned counsel for the Assessee as well as the learned
D.R. relied on several decisions of the High Court and Tribunal rendered on the
subject. These decisions are not being considered as the issue is extensively
dealt by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High court in the cases of M/s Ericsson 41 A.B. and Infrasoft Ltd (supra) which are binding on this Tribunal. We observe
that all the arguments put forth by the Revenue and the assessee are
considered and answered in these decisions. Further, the Delhi High Court in
Infrasoft has expressed its disagreement with the view taken by the Karnataka
High Court in the case of Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. Hence, the decisions
relied by the learned CIT-DR in the case of Samsung Electronics and Gracemac
Corporation (supra) does not help the case of the Revenue, as we are under the
Jurisdiction of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court. 42. In view of the above, respectfully following the decision of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Ericsson A.B. (supra) and Infrasoft Ltd.
(supra), we hold that the consideration received by the Assessee for supply of
product along with license of software to End user is not royalty under Article
12 of the Tax Treaty. Even where the software is separately licensed without
supply of hardware to the end users (i.e. eight out of 63 customers), we are of
the view that the terms of license agreement is similar to the facts of Infrasoft
Ltd (Supra). Accordingly, we hold that there was no transfer of any right in
respect of copyright by the assessee and it was a case of mere transfer of a
copyrighted article. The payment is for a copyrighted article and represents the
purchase price of an article. Hence, the payment for the same is not in the
nature of royalty under Article 12 of the Tax Treaty. The receipts would
constitute business receipts in the hands of the Assessee and is to be assessed
as business income subject to assessee having business connection/ PE in
India as per adjudication on Ground No 5. Ground No 3 and 4 43. The above grounds deal with revenue earned from rendering of
implementation services and maintenance services to customers in India as
"Royalty/ FTS/ FIS" under the Act and the Tax Treaty 42 44. Aspect US provides the following services which enable the call center
companies to better manage customer interactions via, email, web and fax: These services entails resolving problems or bugs in the product which
 results in its functioning effectively, providing new releases and upgrades
 of the software, providing help desk services. These services are
 performed outside India by the Appellant and only in exceptional cases,
 where the end customer/ channel Partners insist on providing onsite
 support, ATC provides the support. (iii)Professional Services- These services include telephone, e-mail and web
 support, software support by accessing site configuration to determine
 revision levels for the authorized software partners, software upgrades
 etc. It also includes wide range of classroom and computer based courses
 as well as custom courses tailored to meet unique training, schedule and
 location requirements that focus on the application and functionality of
 Aspect products. Revenue from professional services has been offered to
 tax by the assessee as FIS under Article 12 of the Tax Treaty. 45. The AO rejected the contentions of the assessee that the services in
question were performed outside India and that only in exceptional cases the
end customer and channel partners insist on providing onsite support and ACT
provides the support. The AO was of the view that the implementation services
cannot exist without transfer of software license and hence, these services are
inextricably linked with the grant of software licenses. The AO has taxed the
revenues from these services as 'Fees for Technical Services" under Sec.
9(1)(vii) of the Act and as FIS under the Tax Treaty. Similarly for maintenance
services, the AO was of the view that they are FTS under the Act and FIS under
the Tax Treaty for the reason that there would not have been any maintenance
expenses if the soft ware in question is shrink wrapped soft ware. The action of
the AO was confirmed by the DRP. 46. The learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that the implementation
services have been accepted by the AO to be incidental to the supply of
software. Implementation services would acquire the nature of software itself
and does not qualify as FIS under Article 12(4)(a) of the Tax Treaty since the
supply of software itself does not qualify as royalty. Further, the
implementation services would also not fall within the ambit of Article 12(4)(b) of the Tax Treaty as these services do not make available technology, skill or
experience, etc to the end users i.e. such service are not geared towards
enabling the end user's personnel to undertake similar activities independently
in future. 47. On maintenance services, it was argued that these services are provided
remotely to the end users and only in rare cases, where end users/ channel
partners insist on onsite support, the Indian AEs of the assessee provides the 44 same. The services are not rendered in India and hence not taxable u/s 9(1)(vii) of the Act. 48. Without prejudice to the above argument, it was submitted that the
revenues earned from maintenance services are not taxable as FIS as these
services do not make available technology, skill or experience to the end user
as per Article 12(4)(b) of the Tax Treaty. Maintenance services provided under
an annual maintenance contract basically include resolving day to day
problems and such service do not enable the customer to apply the technology
independently without recourse to the service provider. Further, these services
also includes provision of upgrades and new releases which do not fall within
the definition of FIS under the Tax Treaty, since there is no "development and
transfer" of these updates. The software is not developed and customized for
one person but for all the software users at large. Thus, they are in the nature
of software itself and since the payment for software is not taxable in India, the
revenue from maintenance services ought not to be taxed in India.
Reliance is placed on a number of case laws including: 49. The learned CIT -DR relied on the orders passed by the AO and
submitted that the definition and scope of various support services provided by
Aspect India to customers of Aspect Inc is available as given below: 50. The learned Counsel for the assessee has claimed that 90% of services to
customers are provided by Channel Partners and balance 10% are provided by
the assessee to customers. On this issue the Ld.D.R. pointed out that the
agreement with the Channel partners defines services "means system
implementation services, training services, professional, enterprise solution
services, support (maintenance services), equipment relocation services, and/
or time and material services" (clause1 (bb) on page 97 of PB-I). Further he
referred to Clause 3(b) and 3(c) on page 97 of the PB-I and submitted that
Channel Partners obligations include equipment and service sale. Regarding
pricing of the products and related services, the Partner will establish the
prices that it charges to the end user within the territory for the products and
related services distributed by the Partner. This suggests that 90% of the
services are provided by Channel Sales Partner. Implementation and
maintenance services are technical services and these services can only be
provided by employees of channel sales partners which in fact are provided by
employees of Aspect India. The description of maintenance services indicate
that such services can only be provided through trained personnel of
customers. While providing the services through the involvement of customers,
Aspect India in fact makes available the services to Channel sales partner and
customers. 51. He submitted that, in the present case, available facts explicitly indicate
that maintenance services encompasses providing new release of software,
provide tracking tool that enable the customer to track the performance of 46 equipments and software, provide self help environment, support to named and
trained personnel. The Ld.D.R. contended that these services make available
technical knowledge, experience and skill and Know how. He further submitted
that the implementation and maintenance services are not independent of
licensing of software. Hence, the payments are in the nature of fee for included
services under the provisions of paragraph 4(a) of Article 12. These services are
ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right to property
or information for which a payment described in paragraph 3(a) is received. It
was also submitted that in case, the Hon'ble Tribunal takes the view that the
payments are not in the nature of FIS then provisions of service PE applies and
entire revenue is taxable as business income as all the revenue earned is on
account of services provided by Aspect India or employees of the assessee in
India. 52. We have heard both the parties at length and perused the relevant
clauses of the agreement which deals with the above services. "Services" have
been defined in the agreement "to include installation services, maintenance
services, education services, professional services and T&M services, all as
hereinafter defined, and any other services provided to Customer by or on
behalf of Aspect, together with the related deliverables provided under
services". 53. The revenue earned by the assessee from provision of education and
professional services has been offered to tax in the return of income filed for
the subject AY. The AO has now brought to tax the revenue earned from
implementation service and maintenance service to tax. 54. Under the provisions of Sec 9(1)(vi)/(vii) of the Act, the revenue earned
from the above services may qualify as royalty/ FTS. However, under Article 12 47 (4) of the Tax Treaty, the payments would qualify as "FIS" if the payment is for
rendering of any technical or consultancy services, if such services: 55. The term make available is not defined under the Tax Treaty. The
Memorandum of Understanding ('MoU') to the Tax Treaty explains the term as
under :- 56. In the present case, the undisputed fact is that the implementation
service is inextricably and essentially linked to the supply of software. In view
of our decision in Ground No 2 that the supply of software is not taxable as
"royalty" under the Tax Treaty, the provision contained in clause (a) to Article
12 (4) would not apply to both Implementation and maintenance services.
Further there is nothing to show that these services provided by the assessee
actually made available to the End User/ Channel Partners any technical
knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or processes so as to enable them to 48 apply the said technology. Under these circumstances, we uphold the
arguments of the learned Counsel of the assessee and allow the ground. 57. Coming to the submission of the Revenue that if the payments are not in
the nature of FIS, then provisions of service PE applies and the entire
transaction has to be considered as business income, we would deal the same
in the ground relating to determination of PE. Ground No 5 58. This ground deals with holding whether ACC constitutes the fixed place,
Installation and Dependent Agent PE in India of Aspect US under the Tax
Treaty. 59. The AO has held that the assessee has a fixed place PE, dependent agent
PE and installation PE under the provisions of DTAA for the following reasons: 60. The AO also concluded that the assessee has an installation PE in India,
for the reason that on account of the sales through channel partners, ACC is
permanent installation and implementation office in India for the assessee. The
DRP rejected the objections of the assessee in this regard and confirmed the
finding of the AO. 61. The learned Counsel for assessee presented the following facts: 62. Thus, the learned Counsel submitted that, the assessee does not have a
place of business in India at its disposal and a place where "it has a right to
use with a degree of permanence." The assessee does not exercise any degree
of factual or operational control over the facility/premises and hence it does
not have any place of business in India and that it did not carry out any
business operations in India. 63. It was argued that, the assessee concluded all the contracts on supply of
software outside India the contracts are initiated and concluded by Aspect, US
through "i-approve" system, loaded on a server located outside India. 64. The property in the goods supplied to the Indian customers passes
outside India and from this it is evident that Aspect, US did not undertake any
business activity in India. The assessee has no employee in India for supply
and other services in relation to hardware and software. 65. The employees visited India at irregular intervals for a total duration of
109 days to meet prospective clients, understand the requirement of existing
customers, analyse the Indian market etc. which activity does not result in
constitution of any P/E. 66. Even if the subsidiary company i.e. ACC carries out activities of the
assessee, these are only auxiliary activities which do not constitute the core
business activity of the assessee company. Hence, the case would also be
covered under the specific exclusion provided under Article 5(4) of the DTAA.
Hence it was argued that the assessee does not have a fixed P/E. Reliance was
placed on the following case laws. 67. On the findings of the AO that the assessee has an installation P/E it
was argued that (a) the implementation services primarily involves uploading of
software providing specifications to customers for environmental conditions/
systems (server) specifications etc. required for system set-up etc. (b)It was submitted that the nature of implementation services in this case
primarily involves implementation of software which is an intangible property,
as distinguished from installation of tangible property/equipment as envisaged
under various commentaries to constitute installation P/E. 68. Under the Treaties, the term 'installation project' is used for projects
which requires substantial effort in terms of time, money, technical enterprise
planning subsidiary and hence the nature of services of the assessee cannot be
called installation services as contemplated in the Treaties. The 52 implementation services rendered by the assessee do not involve
time/effort/physical activity. 69. On the finding that the assessee has a dependent agent PE, it was
argued that: 70. The assessee and its subsidiary shall not control the day-to-day activities
of the other party and allow either of the parties to create any obligation on
behalf of each other. ACC is not legally or economically dependent on the
assessee and is independent both economically and legally. Reliance was
placed on the decision of the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in Variant India
P.Ltd. vs. ADIT in ITA 4672 and 4676/Mum/2011 and she argued that the
assessee: 71. It was argued that ACC merely acts as a communication channel
between the assessee and its ultimate customer. The function of ACC is
described as follows: "to demonstrate the utility of the projects of the assessee
to the customers as per their requirements and to pass on pricing function and
contract terms as determined by Aspect, US." The process was explained as follows: 72. The Ld.CIT, D.R. on the other hand listed out the revenues received by
the assessee from Indian customers in this year as follows: 73. The Ld. D.R. further contended that no revenues were shown for training
services though such training has been provided. He pointed out that 50% of
the revenues are on account of licensing of software. 74. He referred to the assessment order in installation/implementation
services as well as maintenance services and pointed out that the maintenance
services are provided for a period of one year as a part of the licensing of
software and sale of hardware and this can be renewed each year thereafter.
The services listed out by the Ld.DR are: 75. The Ld.D.R. also pointed out that, for availing services it is necessary
that the customers maintain current back up copies of all software, ancillary
programmes and customary data and not to relocate any covered product from
its original or subsequent location site. 76. The Ld.D.R. alleged that hardware sale and licensing of software is
made through Indian subsidiaries and that all the services including 55 maintenance, professional, warranty etc. are also performed by Aspect India
which is remunerated on a cost Plus market basis. 77. He submitted that in respect of services performed by Aspect India, the
assessee is invoicing the customers and receiving all the payments. 78. The sum and substance of Ld.DR's submission is that the sale of
equipment and performance of services and licensing of software are done to
the customers by the channel partners or Aspect India only, but the revenues
are accounted for by the assessee. He referred to the service agreement
between ACC and the assessee dt. 9.2.2004, for providing sales support
services and laid emphasis on Article 1 on page 56 of the first paper book as
well as page 70 which is Exhibit B of the agreement. He also referred to
various clauses of the Service agreement to demonstrate his point of view. 79. The Ld.D.R. alleged that the agreement in question is not signed and the
assessee had not furnished the documents regarding change of name in
parties and hence the agreement cannot be relied upon. These arguments are
made by the Ld.DR with a view to demonstrate that the actual functions
performed by Aspect India is in excess of the limitations placed on it by
agreement dt. 9.2.2004. 80. He referred to the last service agreement between the Aspect Inc. and
Aspect India effective from 1st August,2004 and submitted that under this
agreement the contractor will perform research development, testing services,
as it is requested by Concerto Software Inc. i.e. the assessee company Aspect
Software Inc. He also referred to the amended agreement dt. 20th
December,2006 and alleged that the assessee has not submitted any 56 information on the services provided by the contractor and it is not clear
whether this agreement concerned a separate business of the assessee and for
which no income has been offered to tax. 81. Ld.D.R. gave the departmental version as to how from the revenue's point
of view, the sales are made and the licensing of software was done. For this
purpose he relied on the assessment order and argued that the information on
the activities and role of Aspect India, with respect to the business of the
assessee in India was not forthcoming and hence the AO issued notice u/s
133(6) of the Act. 82. Thereafter the Ld.D.R. submits that Aspect India the Indian Subsidiary
or the channel partners identified the customers, under the specifications or
requirements and for this purpose, it involves meetings, presentations etc. to
suit the customer requirement. He alleged that Aspect India prepares a
comprehensive proposal including prices and sends to customer, channel
partner who in turn submits its quote and a purchase order from the customer
to the sale team of Aspect India. 83. The Ld.DR submits that based on these proposals by the subsidiary, the
channel partner submits its report and purchase order from its customer to the
sales team of Aspect India. Aspect India enters the requisite specification on
the "I Approve" system, which is a platform where in all the information
about the sale is entered into by the subsidiary, including customer I.D., price,
discounts, requesting persons etc. reasons justifying the price, request price,
discount etc. He contended that the information is completed by the sales
team of Aspect India and it was subsequently assigned to various persons for
approval including country Manager of Aspect India. Justification for the
price/discount offered by Aspect India while negotiating terms and conditions 57 are mentioned in the "I approve". The activities undertaken and decision taken
by Aspect India in making sales gets fully documented in "I Approve". 84. In view of the above, the Ld.D.R contends that the documentation in "I
Approve" system explicitly demonstrate that all the functions in regard to
sale/licensing, including the decision regarding prices are negotiated and
decided by Aspect India and that there is no role of Aspect U.S. in negotiating
prices and response from customers. 85. He listed out the functions, which as per the Ld.DR, are carried out by
Aspect India and argued that these functions demonstrate a totally different
picture than what has been stated in the agreements between the two related
entities. Thus he submits that the functions performed are not properly
disclosed in the T.P. analysis and that these agreements have not correctly
captured the services provided by Aspect India and are to be considered as self-
serving documents. 86. He pointed out that the proposals are also prepared to get approvals for
non standard payment terms. The sales team of Aspect India also secured
orders for customers in Sri Lanka and Saudi Arabia and this was not disclosed
in the T.P.study. 87. The sum and substance of the contentions is that, Aspect India performs
the core functions of customer profiling, price negotiation and closure of the
deal and its function is not limited market support as claimed by the assessee.
He contends that the burden is on the assessee to lead evidence otherwise and
that this is not discharged. 88. He contended that there is no case where Aspect Inc. has refused any "I
Approve" submitted by Aspect India and argued that this shows that the prices
and discounts initiated by the Indian Subsidiary are final and that the assessee
has no direct role. The Ld.D.R. stated as follows: · Claim that majority of sales in India are made to channel partners where
 Aspect India has no role to play. In this regard, as demonstrated above, no
 sales/licensing in India is made without the involvement of Aspect India.
 In no case, the customers or channel partners had any direct dealing or
 interaction with the assessee outside India and this is out of question
 when Aspect India has employed persons who have designations as
 channel managers, sales manager, and senior sales manager and director
 sales. · Claim that channel partners do not require any concurrence from the
 Appellant for sale of the product to the ultimate customer is apparently not
 correct because the channel partners do forward the purchase order of the
 end customer to Aspect India and the discounts are decided by the Aspect
 India. · Claim that Aspect India acts as a communication channel between the
 assessee and the customers in Sri Lanka and Middle East and, per se,
 does not sell on behalf of the assessee or secure orders for the assessee.
 This claim is contrary to facts as evident from the statement of Director
 Sales of Aspect India. Can assessee explain that when the Aspect India is
 not making sales, as per its claim, then why the employees of Aspect India
 have designation of Director sales/manager sales Asia, Sri Lanka and
 Middle East? It is the assessee who is present in India through Aspect
 India and carries business in India, Sri Lanka and Middle East. The
 assessee could have submitted the travel expenses detail of Aspect India
 to demonstrate that employees of Aspect India did not visit these countries.
· Claim that customer directly contact with the assessee is factually
 incorrect as no customer has ever directly interacted or corresponded with
 the assessee. Similarly the assessee has never come in contact with the
 customer. · It has been claimed that majority of sales are made to channel partners.
 Information on all the channel partners, date of agreement and sales made
 through them is not submitted, therefore, this claim is in vacuum.
· The claim that Aspect India provides support to the assessee in rendering
 services is also contrary to facts as all services are provided by Aspect
 India. Assessee may have rendered services directly to Indian customers
 while employees of assessee were present in India. Aspect India provides
 support to the assessee but majority of these services are provided by
 Aspect India to customers. · Claim that assessee does not play any role in performance evaluation of
 employees of Aspect India could have been substantiated by submission of
 performance evaluation report of employees, say Shri Shankar Balu to
 indicate that his incentives/ promotions/salary is not dependent on sales
 targets achieved by him. · Assessee has claimed (page 191 of PB-2) that it had submitted copy of "I- Approve" where the proposals of discounts made by Aspect India have
 been rejected. The Revenue could not find any such document in the Paper
 Books filed by the assessee. AO has adversely commented on this issue
 therefore such documents were also not filed before the AO. 89. Based on the above understanding of the facts the Ld.D.R. contended
that the following claims of the assessee are factually incorrect: 90. The Ld.D.R. relied on the order of the AO and contended that: 91. We have considered the rival contentions and the material on record.
The existence of PE in India is the matter of dispute in this ground. Revenue
has contended that the assessee has fixed PE, installation PE and Dependent
Agent PE in India. Our finding in respect of each of the forms of PE is as
under: There is no dispute that clause (j) above is not applicable. The dispute is with
regard to existence of PE under clause (k) above. As per Article 5(2)(k) , a
building site or construction, installation or assembly project or supervisory
activities in connection therewith is regarded as PE is such project or activities
(together with other such sites, projects or activities, if any) continue for a
period of more than 120 days in any twelve-month period. Article 5(2)(k) should be read as a whole. The term 'in connection therewith' would apply for
the entire preceding words viz., a 'building site or construction, installation or
assembly project or supervisory activities'. The term installation project cannot
be read de-hors the words accompanying it. Thus, when the entire clause is 64 red as a whole, it would be evident that the installation or assembly project or
supervisory activities should be in connection with the building site or
construction. In the present case, there is no dispute that the assessee does
not carry on business in India through a building site or construction.
Consequently, we are of the view that there is no installation PE of the assessee
in India. Dependent Agent PE: Article 5(4) of India - USA Treaty deals with the
Dependent Agent PE. It reads as under: mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which he
 regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the
 enterprise, and some additional activities conducted in the State
 on behalf of the enterprise have contributed to the sale of the
 goods or merchandise; or (c) He habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly
 or almost wholly for the enterprise 65 The first and foremost requirement under Article 5(4) is that the said
Article will apply to a person other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 5 applies. Paragraph 5 of Article states as under: Paragraph 5 lays down conditions as to when can an agent; broker is regarded
as dependent agent or independent agent. If the agent is devoted wholly or
almost wholly on behalf of the enterprise and the transactions between the
agent and the enterprise are not made under arm's length conditions, the agent
is not considered as agent of 'independent status'. In such circumstances, the
agent would be regarded as 'dependent agent'. Further, the dependent agent
has to satisfy any of the tests laid down in (a), (b) or (c) above in order to
constitute a dependent agent PE of the non-resident. Coming to the facts of
the present case, the assessee has argued that Aspect India neither secures
orders nor habitually exercises an authority to conclude on behalf of the
assessee. It is, therefore, contended that there is no dependent agent PE in
India. The revenue, on the other hand, has argued that the assessee has not
submitted proper facts to substantiate its contention. It is submitted that the
assessee has not submitted information on sale of equipment and licensing of
software that are done directly by Aspect India to customers and those done 66 through channel partners. It is contended that the assessee has not
demonstrated that it identifies customers and make sales. The statement
recorded from the Director, sales of Aspect India is stated to be contrary to the
claim of the assessee that Aspect India only acts as a communication channel
between the assessee and the customers. Similarly, the assessee's claim that
majority of sales are made to channel partners is stated to be factually
incorrect since information on all the channel partners, date of agreement and
sales made through them is not submitted. It is argued that copy of 'I Approve'
system has not been submitted by the assessee for factual verification.
Considering these facts, we are of the view that both the revenue and the
assessee have not been able to demonstrate the existence or otherwise of the
'dependent agent PE'. In the absence of proper information in this regard, we
are unable to decide whether the assessee has a 'dependent agent PE' in India.
We accordingly, set aside the issue of 'dependent agent PE' and restore to the
assessing officer for fresh consideration. Ground 6 , 6.1 92. This ground is on revenue earned from supply of software and rendering
of maintenance and professional services to customers located in Sri Lanka
and Middle East as "Royalty/ FTS/ FIS" under the Act and the Tax Treaty. 93. The Assessee has provided sales and support services to customers in Sri
Lanka and Middle East. The factual aspect of providing services in respect of
sales to customers in Sri Lanka and Middle East came to light during the
statement recorded of Shri Balu , Sales Director (South Asia and Middle East)
under section 131 of the Act. 94. The AO taxed the revenue earned by assessee from supply of software
and provision of support services from customers based in Sri Lanka and
Middle-East Asia under Sec. 9(1)(vi) and (vii) of the Act and under Article 12 of
the Tax Treaty. Further, the AO also attributed 15% of the revenue earned from
supply of software and hardware and 57.5% of the revenue from provision of
support services from the said customers to the alleged PE in India. The DRP
has confirmed the addition. 95. The learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that the revenues from
supply of software and rendering of services are from the customers located in
Sri Lanka and Middle East is not taxable in lieu of her submissions made while
arguing ground nos. 2 to 4 in this appeal. 96. Alternatively and without prejudice to the above submissions, she
submitted that the revenues were earned outside India and the services were
also rendered outside India i.e. Srilanka and Middle East. Hence, the same is
not taxable in India. She drew our attention to the provisions of Sec.5 of the
Act and Article 12 of the Tax Treaty and submitted that as per Sec.5 of the Act,
the 'total income' of a non-resident tax payer would be the income which has
been received in India or has accrued or arisen or deemed to accrue or arise in
India. Sec.9 of the Act which deals with Income deemed to be accrued or arise
in India provides that any income by way of royalty or FTS shall be deemed to
accrue or arise in the hands of a non-resident only if: 97. The Ld.Counsel for the assessee submitted that in the instant case, by
no stretch of imagination it can be construed that the consideration paid by the
end users/channel partners based in Sri Lanka and Middle East to the
assessee for purchase of software and provision of services has been utilized for
their business carried on in India or for the purpose of making or earning of
any income from any source in India. Thus, no income can be brought within
the ambit of India taxation. 98. Further, she drew our attention to Article 12 of the Tax Treaty which
read as under division, a local authority, or a resident of that State. Where, however,
 the person paying the royalties or fees for included services, whether he 69 is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
 permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the
 liability to pay the royalties or fees for included services was incurred,
 and such royalties or fees for included services are borne by such
 permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for
 included services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in
 which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated. 99. She submitted that in view of the provisions Article 12 of India-USA tax
treaty, royalties/ FIS paid to a resident of US may be taxable in India only if
the same is arising in India. Article 7(a) of the India-USA tax treaty provides
that the Royalties and FIS shall be deemed to arise in India only where the
payer is resident of India or has a PE or fixed place in India and such royalties/
FIS are borne by such PE or fixed place. 100. In the instant case, even if the consideration from sale of software and
services is construed to be in the nature of "royalties and FIS ", the
consideration received for the sale of software and services from the payer
based in Middle East and Sri Lanka cannot be taxed in India as the same has
not arisen/ deemed to arise in India. The provisions of the India-USA tax treaty
clarifies that once it is construed that the US enterprise has a PE in India,
royalty and fees for included services shall be taxable as per the provisions of Article 7 of the India-USA tax treaty. Thus, the income from sale of software
and services from Middle East and Sri Lanka has incorrectly been taxed in
India. 101. The learned CIT-DR submitted that the assessee had always hidden the
transaction from the tax authorities and these transactions were discovered
from the employees of Aspect India during the statement recorded under 70 Sec131 of the Act. It is unfortunate that the assessee is blaming the revenue
that there is no material on prove that the services are rendered in India. Be
that as it may, there is no dispute about provision of services by Aspect India,
The services are provided are very high end and due to such services Aspect US
is earning revenue from these countries without being physically present there.
The income to assessee from customers in Sri Lanka and Middle East do arise
due to operations/ activities of Aspect India from within and outside India has
full nexus with India. Accordingly, income is taxable in India. 102. In her rejoinder to Revenue's allegation that the assessee had hidden the
transactions from the tax authorities and the fact of the transaction came to
the notice of the AO while recording the statement of Mr. Shankar Balu, the
learned Counsel for assessee submitted that the since the revenue received
from the customers located outside India for supply of software could not have
been brought within the Indian taxation, there was no requirement on the part
of the assessee to disclose such income in the tax return. By no stretch of
imagination, the assessee could have though that the Learned AO will link the
receipts with Indian operations of the Aspect US. Further, the AO also did not
specifically ask for the details. However, subsequently when the AO requested
for details, the assessee had fully co-operated with the Revenue. In absence of
any specific details, it will be unjust to penalize the Appellant for a transaction
having no nexus with India. 103. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the record. We find it
difficult to accept the arguments of the learned CIT-DR for taxing the said
receipts. In view of our observations in Ground No 2, 3 and 4, we hold that the
revenues earned from customers located in Sri Lanka/ Middle East are not
taxable under the Tax Treaty. Even otherwise, we are of the opinion that the
said revenue is not taxable under Sec. 9 of the Act. We state our reasons below: 104. In the present case the revenue is received by the assessee from
customers located outside India (i.e. Sri Lanka/ Middle East). Therefore, the
taxability of the transaction is governed by provisions of Sec. 9(1)(vi) (c )/
9(1)(vii)(c ) of the Act. Thus, to tax the royalty/ FTS income earned from such
customers in the hands of Aspect US, the transaction should fall within the
provisions of Sec 9(1)(vi)(c )/9(1)(vii)(c) of the Act. 105. Sec. 9(l)(vi)(c) / 9(1)(vii)(c) of the Act are deeming provisions and have to
be construed strictly. A plain reading of both the sections shows that any
income earned by a non-resident tax payer (i.e. Aspect in the present case)
by way of royalty / FTS is taxable in India, if such royalty/FTS is payable by a
non-resident (i.e. customers located in Sri Lanka/ Middle East) in respect of
any right, property or information used or services utilized: Thus to tax the income earned by Aspect US from customers located outside
India under Sec. 9(l)(vi)(c) / 9(1)(vii) (c ) of the Act, the Revenue must prove that
the customers located in Sri Lanka / Middle East carry on business in India
and that they have used Aspects US rights in the IPs/ services for the purposes
of such business in India; or that they have used rights in the IPs/ Services for
the purpose of making or earning income from a source in India. In the present
case, the Revenue taxed the said income on the sole reason that these services
are provided by Indian subsidiary of the asseseee and the asssessee is earning
huge income from these customers. The AO has not brought anything on
record to show that the customers located in Sri Lanka/ Middle East have used 72 the rights in the IPs/ services for carrying on business in India or for the
purpose of making or earning income from any source in India. Under these
circumstances, we agree with the arguments of the learned counsel for the
assessee that the revenue in question cannot be brought to tax under the Act. 106. As we have held that the revenue in question cannot be brought to tax as
"royalties/FTS" under the Act under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 itself, we do not find it necessary to examine the taxability of the same under Article 12 of the Tax Treaty. Ground no 7 and 8 107. These grounds are against double taxation of income and application
incorrect rate of tax for computing the tax on royalty/ FTS income on gross
basis. 108. The learned Counsel for the asseessee has submitted that the AO has
taxed the revenue from supply of software earned and rendering of
implementation, maintenance and professional services to customers located in
India, Sri Lanka and Middle East as "Royalty"/"FTS" on gross basis @15% and
also proceeded to attribute certain percentage of the revenue to the alleged PE
thereby, resulting in double taxation of income. Accordingly, she prayed for
relief. Further, she submitted that the learned AO has used the incorrect rate
of tax while computing the tax on gross basis. The Ld. AO has taxed such
income @ 15% irrespective of whether the agreement has been entered into on
or before June 1, 2005 or thereafter. Hence, even where the agreement is
entered after June 1, 2005, the AO has taxed the income @ 15% instead of 10%
(plus applicable surcharge and cess) under section 115A of the Act. 109. The learned CIT-DR submitted that assessee's claim to be taxed at the
tax rate of 10% in view of the provisions of Section 115A of the Act could have
been correct, had it opted to be taxed under the provisions of the Act and not
under the Tax Treaty. The assessee cannot do shopping of the royalty
provisions under the Tax Treaty for the purpose of scope of royalty and then
turn to the Act for the purpose of tax rate. Since the asseessee has made a
choice of taxation under the provisions of Tax Treaty and it needs to stick to it.
Tax rate is provided in paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the DTAA. Accordingly, this
ground of appeal is required to be rejected. He placed relied on the decision of
the Delhi ITAT in the case of Pizza Hut International (22 Taxmann.com 111,
Delhi ITAT) where in the co-ordinate Bench of this tribunal has held that the
assessee is not eligible to choose the tax rate under the Tax Treaty and then
claim the exemption from gross up of tax under the Act , in that case tax rate
under the Act would apply. 110. We have heard both the parties. In view of the decision given in ground
No.2, 3, 4 and 6 on taxability of revenue earned from supply of software and
support services from customers located in India, Sri Lanka and Middle East,
ground No.7 and 8 has become purely academic. Therefore no adjudication is
required. Ground No 9 111. By way of this ground, the assessee, without prejudice to its arguments
that it does not have a P.E. in India, contends the method of attribution of
profits is not in accordance with the law. 112. The AO having held that the assessee has a fixed place, installation and
Dependent Agent PE in India in the form of ACT attributed the following sums
to the PE : · 57.5 % of the revenues earned from rendering of services to the
 customers in India and outside India (i.e. Sri Lanka and Middle East).
The DRP upheld the attribution done by the AO. 113. The learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that in the instant case
no profits are attributable to the alleged P.E. of the assessee on account of the
following: resident is constituted under the Act, the total income of such a non-
 resident would be subject to tax in India, but only so much of the income
 of such non-resident as is reasonably attributable to the operations
 carried out in India would be subject to tax in India. Reliance was placed
 on the Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in the case of Ishikawajima
 Harima Heavy Industries Ltd vs. DIT (288 ITR 408, SC). (b) In the context of onshore activities incidental to the sale of goods, it has
 been held that where the sale of goods has taken place outside India and
 the activities carried out in India are only incidental/ ancillary to such
 sale, no profit/ loss can be attributed. Reliance was placed on the
 decisions of the Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT
 vs. Navbharat Ferro Alloys Ltd (224 ITR 0261); CIT vs Hindustan
 Shipyard Ltd ( 109 ITR 0158) and CIT vs Sundwiger Empg and Co (261
 ITR 110). (c) Further, the Central Board of Direct Taxes ('CBDT') in its circular No. 23
 dated July 23, 1969, with a view to clarify the position, stated that in
 respect of sales made by a non-resident to Indian customers either
 directly or through agents, the income of the non-resident arising in
 India would be limited to the amount of profit attributable to the services
 of the agent. Even though the circular has been withdrawn by the CBDT
 presumably to prevent its un-intended misinterpretation, the principle as
 held by the Supreme Court (as discussed above) in various decisions still
 holds good and what can be attributed to a business connection can only
 be with reference to the activities performed in India. Hence, without
 prejudice to the contention that Aspect US does not constitute a PE in
 India, it is submitted that even where Aspect US is held to be taxable in
 India on the grounds of it having a PE as per Article 5 of the tax treaty,
 what can be taxed in India are only those profits that have been earned
 from operations carried out in India. (d) The Act does not prescribe any specific methodology for attribution of
 income. Rule 10 of the Income-tax rules, 1962 ('the Rules') relevant to Section 9 (1 )(i) of the act inter alia specifies that where the actual amount
 of income accruing or arising to any nonresident, whether directly or
 indirectly, through or from any business connection in India; or through
 or from any asset/source of income in India, is according to the tax
 officer not definitely ascertainable, then the tax officer may calculate the
 amount of income, accruing or arising in India, in any of the following
 manner: Applying the above principles to the facts of the present case, it was
 submitted that no profits are attributable to the alleged PE of the
 Appellant in India, on account of following: In view of the above, it was submitted that Aspect US does not have any
 assets in India and since Aspect India has been remunerated at arms'
 length price for the services provided, no further profits can be
 attributable to the alleged PE of Aspect US in India. 114. Without prejudice to the contention that no further income can be
attributed to the alleged PE, if any, of Appellant in India, it was submitted that
even if income is sought to be attributed, the same should be done having
regard to the net income derived by Appellant from Indian operations, further
restricted to the amount which can be attributed to the functions carried out in
India. It was submitted that the following are the various functions performed
/risks associated with the hardware/software sales are affected by assessee: 115. Alternatively and without prejudice to the above contention that no
further income can be attributed to the alleged P.E., if any, of the assessee in
India, it was argued that the attribution should be done having regard to the
net income derived by the assessee from global operations and further
restricted to the amount which can be attributed to the functions carried out in
India. Listing out the various functions, she submitted that the functions
performed in India are restricted to undertake the limited marketing function
and provision of ancillary services (i.e. implementation services). She contended
that the assessee neither resumed any risk of customers nor does it hold any
assets in India. She relied on the mechanism provided under Rule 10(ii) and
submitted that the AO has failed to consider the global annual accounts
submitted with the office of the Ld.AO vide submission dt. March 12, 2009 to
determined profits attributed to the alleged P.E. of Aspect U.S.Inc.in India. It
was submitted that as the assessee has incurred losses globally for the FY
2006-07 no profit can be attributable to the P.E. for the subject Assessment
Year. 116. One more alternate argument was raised without prejudice to the main
contention and it was submitted that only profit can be taxed under the Act
and treaty and that the AO wrongly identified 15% of the sales as attributable
to the P.E. and tax the same. She suggested the following formula for
computing the profits attributable to the P.E. in India : 117. The learned CIT-DR submitted that the profits on account of sale of
hardware would be taxable to the extent attributable to the PE in India. The
income from licensing of software and support services is taxable as royalty/
FTS. Up to FY 2003-04, Aspect India was rendering distribution, maintenance
and support services to assist implementation of global contracts. Aspect India
was receiving commission at 11% on the sales value of software and hardware
distributed and was getting actual fee charged by Aspect US in respect of 82 consultancy and support services provided by Aspect India to the customers.
During the FY 2004-05, the method of compensation of the Indian company
was changed and now the assessee claims to have performed limited marketing
activity in India. 118. He argued that while the business arrangement has changed in form, in
substance nothing has changed. If the assessee's argument that the role of
Aspect India became limited is to be accepted then the assessee has to explain
who else is performing the remaining activities for the assessee in India. In the
assessment proceedings of the Indian subsidiary, the assessee was totally non -cooperative and had not submitted the required information. The assessment
order notes the inconsistent position taken by the assessee regarding its role
with regard to sales and services. 119. With respect to taxability of hardware, he submitted that the agreement
as well as the invoices uses the term equipment. The sale of equipment has
been expressed as sale of hardware in the assessment order. Based on the
direction of the DRP, income from hardware has been determined @15% of
hardware sales. In the grounds of appeal filed before the Tribunal the assessee
has not objected to the taxation of hardware sales and is only aggrieved by the
rate of attribution @ 15% of the hardware sales made to customers in India.
As the assessee does not have any legal objection with regard to taxability of
revenue earned from hardware sales, therefore the arguments that sales are
made on FOB basis outside India can only be considered as an argument to
object that attribution made at 15% of sales revenue. The assessee has not
raised any ground that income from hardware sales is not taxable as per the
provisions of section 5 and section 9 of the Act. Assessee has not challenged
the finding of the AO that it has business connection in India. It has grievance
against the finding of the AO regarding PE and attribution of income on 83 account of hardware sales. The learned counsel of the assessee has argued that
in view of Supreme Court Ruling no income from hardware sales is taxable in
India. However, neither the ruling was cited nor a copy of the same is filed in
the Paper book, therefore the revenue is unable to respond to this claim.
Without prejudice to this position, if the title to the equipments and risk of loss
to the products passing to the Customer upon shipment which is FOB Aspect's
shipping location (Clause 5(c) on page 86 of the PB, in that case income may
not accrue or arise in India but income will still deem to accrue or arise in
India on account of operations in relation to sales being carried out in India
and business connection of the assessee and income in relation to such
operations is taxable in India as per provisions of Section 5(2)(b) of the Act. In
this regard, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in
the case of Anglo French Textile Company Limited Vs CST (25 ITR 27). 120. Explanation 1 to clause (i) of Section 9(1)(i) provides for attribution of
income based on operations carried out in India. Equipments are no doubt not
manufactured in India but operations in regard to sales have been undertaken
in India. Therefore, the income on account of these operations is taxable in
India as per the provisions of section 5(2) of the Act. 121. On the assessee argument that in absence of a PE no profits on account
of sale of hardware can be attributed to the alleged PE, it was submitted that
the assessee has PE in India and the PE was involved in all the pre-sales
activities including price negotiation of equipments. Therefore, the AO has
rightly attributed profits as per provisions of Article 7 of the Tax Treaty. Prior to
the new arrangement of cost plus, a commission of 11% of the sale price was
being paid to Aspect India for the services provided by them in connection with
such sales. Thus, considering this measure the AO has rightly attributed the
profits to the PE. 122. In her rejoinder, the learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that the
statement made by the Learned CIT-DR that the assessee has no objection with
regard to the taxability of revenue earned from hardware sales is invalid. She
submitted that assessee's primary argument is that the Appellant does not
have a PE in India and in the absence thereof, no profit on account of sale of
hardware can be attributed as taxable in India. However, without prejudice it is
submitted that if PE is upheld, the hardware income be taxed on net basis by
following 15% attribution to the profits of the Aspect US in India (i.e. Revenue x
Attribution rate x Profit rate). 123. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the material on record.
We see merit in the arguments of the learned counsel of the assessee. In the
instant case, the AO has not provided the basis for attributing the income to
the assessee's PE in India. Calculation of the profits attributable to a PE is a
fact specific exercise which has to be computed considering the provisions of
law and the precedents on the subjects. 124. The co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Convergys
Customer Management Group Inc. V ADIT (58 SOT 69) (Del) has held that an
overall attribution of profits to the PE is a transfer pricing issue and no further
profits can be attributed to a PE once an arm's length price has been
determined for the Indian associate enterprise, which subsumes the functions,
assets and risk profile of the allege PE. The above view was expressed by the
bench considering the CBDT circular No.5 of 2004 dt.28-9-2004 as well as the
ratio upheld by the Supreme Court in Morgan Stanley (Supra), the Bombay
High Court in Set Satellite Singapore (P) Ltd. Vs. DIT, International Taxation
(307 ITR 205), the jurisdictional High Court in Rolls Royce Singapore (P) Ltd., 85 Vs. Asst . DIT (202 Taxman 45) and DIT Vs. BBC Worldwide Limited (203
Taxman 554) and the OECD guidelines. 125. In a recent decision, the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT Vs.
E Funds IT solutions (226 Taxman 44) reiterated the principle laid down in Morgan Stanley (supra) on attribution of profits to a PE and held that where a
PE is held to exist, subject to the application of the force of attraction rule, only
profits in relation to the assets and activities of the PE may be attributed to it
and that an arm's length payment to a subsidiary PE as per FAR analysis
would be sufficient for such attribution. 126. In view of the above, we agree with the learned counsel of the assessee
that where an associated enterprise (that also constitutes a PE) is
remunerated on arm's length basis taking into account all the risk taking
functions of the multinational enterprise, nothing further would be left to
attribute to PE. 127. For A.Y.2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06, the transfer pricing analysis of
Aspect India was referred to the Transfer Pricing Officer, TPO - 1(4), New Delhi u/s 92CA(3) of the Act. The TPO after due consideration of the services
rpvided by Aspect India to Aspect US has held that the services were provided
at Arm's Length Price. In respect of these A.Ys, as the TOP has held that the
services are transacted at ALP, we fail to understand how a different view can
be taken in the case of Aspect US who is a counterparty to the transactions.
Further, S.92CA(4) requires the AO to consider the ALP determined by the
TPO for computing the total income of the assessee. Thus, the order of the
TPO is binding on the AO to the extent it is not prejudicial to the assessee.
Accordingly, for AYs 2003-04 and 2004-05, we hold that no further income
can be attributed to the PE in India. 128. For the other A.Ys under appeal, we direct the AO to refer the matter to
the TPO wherever there is no existing reference either in the case of Aspect US
or Aspect India. The TPO shall determine ALP and attribute the profits
accordingly. In this regard, we place reliance in the case of Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. Vs. CIT (345 ITR 193, Del HC) wherein the validity of the
instruction no.3 dt.25-5-2003 issued by the CBDT u/s 119 of the Income Tax
Act was upheld and the reference to TPO for determination of ALP was
considered mandatory. Ground 10 129. Ground no.10 is on the claim for deduction of remuneration paid to the
alleged P.E. from the profit attributed to the P.E. 130. The Learned Counsel for the assesee relied on Article 7 of the Tax Treaty
and submitted that while determining the profits of the P.E. there shall be
allowed as deduction, expenses which are incurred for the purpose of business
of the PE including reasonable allocation of executive and general
administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and
other expenses incurred for the purpose of the enterprise as a whole whether
incurred in India or elsewhere. Therefore, the AO ought to have allowed the
remuneration paid to ACC as deduction for arriving at the taxable income. She
argued that since Aspect US is remunerating to ACC at arm's length for the
services rendered by it, deduction of the said expenses is crucial to determine
the real income arising to the assessee. Disallowance of such expenditure
would result in taxation of inflated incomes in the hands of the assessee. She
pointed out that ACC is offering to tax the revenues received by it from the
assessee company and hence non deduction of the same will result in double
taxation. It was pointed out that in the draft assessment order the AO has 87 allowed the deduction and the DRP has also held that the AO rightly deducted
the compensation paid by the assessee to ACC but however while passing the
final assessment order the AO did not give the deduction for the said
expenditure 131. The Learned CIT-DR submitted that the DRP in paragraph 6 of the order
had held that the amount paid by the assessee to Aspect India qualifies as a
deductible expenditure for the assesee. He argued that the issue of deduction
of expenses is essentially and inextricably linked to the attribution of profits. In
case, the Hon'ble Tribunal rejects the appeal of the assessee with respect to
taxation of revenue from licensing of software and services then the revenue is
taxable on gross basis both under the Act and the Tax Treaty and do not call
for any deduction of expenditure. In such a situation only payments made to
Aspect India for marketing of products shall be allowed as deduction and such
deduction may be in line with the income that is attributed to the PE. 132. He further submitted in case of services the provisions of Article 12(6) will
trigger and the provisions of Article 7 would apply since the support services
are rendered through its PE. In that case, the revenue from services is
attributable to the PE and expenses incurred by Aspect India in providing such
services will qualify for deduction. However, the same would not apply to
licensing of software unless the assessee demonstrates that such royalty
income is attributable to the PE. In summary, the CIT-DR submitted that
allowability of deduction of expenses incurred by Aspect India depends on the
revenues that are taxable as business income. The expense incurred to earn
such business receipts only are allowable as deduction and not full expenses
as claimed by the assessee. 133. As we have directed the AO to refer the matter to the TPO for determining
the ALP and thus decide on attribution of profits, we are of the view that this
issue should also go back to the AO for fresh adjudication in accordance with
law. Ground 11, 11.1 134. The ground is on applicability of transfer pricing provisions and rejection
of Transfer pricing analysis of Aspect India. 135. The AO held that the transfer pricing provisions are applicable to the
assessee. Further, he rejected the Transfer Pricing analysis of Aspect India and
thereby attributed further consideration to Aspect India. The DRP has upheld
the AO rejecting the Transfer Pricing analysis of the Appellant. 136. The Learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that the sale
transactions of the assessee cannot be termed as international transactions
under the Act as there is no transaction between the two A.Es. She explained
the nature of business and the types of transactions and argued that the
transactions entered into by Aspect US, the channel partners/end customers
do not attract transfer pricing provisions in India. She also disputed the
rejection of transfer pricing analysis of Aspect India and she defended the TP
study of the Subsidiary company and argued that no penalty can be levied u/s
271BA and 271 AA is not maintaining transfer pricing documentation. 137. The Learned CIT-DR submitted that there is no dispute that the assessee
and ACT are associated enterprises. Further, the transactions in regard to
rendering of services by ACT are international transactions. Therefore, the AO
has rightly held the TP provisions are applicable to the assessee and it must 89 have strictly observed the compliance of these provisions including filing of
report in Form no 3CEB as required by section 92E of the Act. It was also
obliged to maintain the documentation as required by section 92 of the Act. 138. The assessee has objected to rejection of TP analysis of Aspect India. The
AO has dealt this issue in detail and demonstrated that the TP analysis in case
of Aspect India has not captured the FAR in regard to the international
transaction between assessee and Aspect India. The information on functions
performed has been obtained by the AO based on enquiries and statements
employees of Aspect India recorded during the course of assessment
proceedings. Most glaring omission in the TP analysis was with regard to
functions performed by employees of Aspect India in regard to marketing and
sales including deciding of prices of products of the assessee that are sold in
India, Sri Lanka and the Middle East. The fact that Aspect India supports sales
operations in countries outside India was unearthed during the enquiries
conducted by the AO. Therefore, the AO has rightly rejected the TP analysis in
case of Aspect India so far as it concerns Aspect software Inc. He argued that
the findings of the AO stands on very sound footing and are based on
unassailable reasons. Therefore this ground of the assessee is required to be
rejected. 139. In her rejoinder, the Learned Counsel for the assessee submitted that the
allegation of the Revenue that the Transfer Pricing analysis of Aspect India is
defective since the FAR analysis has not been captured properly is not correct.
It was submitted that the while comparing the functions, the AO has listed
down certain clauses which are in no manner be held to be functions
performed by ACC. The clauses quoted by the AO in the order do not in any
way expand the scope of functions performed by ACC. Therefore, the functions
identified in transfer pricing study are complete and exhaustive. Aspect India 90 has been remunerated at arm's length for functions provided by it. Accordingly,
no further attribution is required to be made for Aspect US. She submitted that
this is supported by the fact that tax return of Aspect India was picked up for
scrutiny by the Transfer Pricing Officer ('TPO') for AY 2004-05, 2005-06 and AY
2008-09 and the TPO had accepted the value of international transaction
declared by the assessee. In support of her submissions, she relied on the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Morgan Stanley and Co.
Inc (Supra). 140. Similar issues have been dealt with by us earlier in this order while
dealing with attribution of profits to the PE. As the criteria for adjudication of
both the issues is similar, consistent with the view taken by us we direct the
assessing officer to accept the TPO analysis of Aspect India wherever the same
is available. Ground no.11.2, 11.3, 12 141. By way of this ground, the assessee has challenged initiation of penalty
proceedings u/s 271BA (for non furnishing of TP report), 271AA (for non-
maintenance of TP documentation) and 271(1)(c) of the Act. In our view it is
premature to question the action at this stage as they are all independent
proceedings outcome of which can be challenged if the assessee feels aggrieved.
This ground is accordingly rejected. Ground no. 13- Levy of interest under Sec 234B of the Act 142. The learned Counsel for the assessee has disputed the levy of interest u/s
234B of the Act placing reliance on the judgement of the Jurisdictional High
Court in the case of DIT vs. Jacabs Civil Incorporated (330 ITR 578, Del HC)
and other case laws on the subject. She also distinguished the decision of 91 Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Alcatel Lucent USA Inc (330 ITR 578,
Del HC). 143. The Learned CIT-DR opposed the contentions of the assessee and
submitted that the assessee has not cooperated with the revenue authorities
during the proceedings in assessment as well as proceedings before the DRP.
He drew the attention of the Bench to the observations of the DRP in para 3.
Ld.DR pointed out that the tax was deducted at source by the customers and
payers in India on payments made to the assessee company and the assessee
company is claiming refund of this tax deducted. The determination hinges on
factual verification whether tax was deducted by payers on all amounts
including purchase of hardware. Further, where tax is deducted and there is
short deduction, it needs to be examined whether the assessee had any role in
such short/ non deduction of tax. 144. He further submitted that it is not in dispute that the assesee has not
offered the income from software licensing, sale of equipments and service fee
to tax. It is disputing the taxability of these sources of income and continues to
dispute even before the Hon'ble Tribunal. The facts of the present case are
covered by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Alcatel
Lucent (Supra) and the decision of the Delhi ITAT in the case of Nortel India
International Inc and Baker Hughes. 145. We heard the rival contentions. The issue stands covered by the decision
of the High Court of Delhi in the case of Jacabs Civil Incorporated/Mitsubishi
Corpn. (supra) where in the Hon'ble High Court held that section 195 puts an
obligation on the payer i.e. any person responsible for paying any tax at source
at the rates in force from such payments and if payer has defaulted in
deducting tax at source, the department can take action against the payer 92 under the provisions of section 201. In such a case, the non- resident cannot
be held liable to pay interest under section 234B on account of default of the
payer in deducting tax at source from the payments made to the non-resident. 146. However in a subsequent decision in the Alactel Lucent, the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court on a specific fact situation held that where non-resident assessee
accepted its liability to be taxed in India at first appellate stage, all
consequences under Act including liability to pay interest under section 234B
would follow; assessee could not be permitted to shift responsibility to Indian
payers for not deducting tax at source from remittances, after leading them to
believe that no tax was deductible. 147. The learned CIT-DR heavily relied on the decision of Alcatel Lucent
(Supra) to support the levy of interest under Sec. 234B of the Act. 148. The undisputed fact in the present case is that tax on the entire income
received by the assessee was required to be deducted at appropriate rates by
the respective payers under section 195(2). Had the payer made the deduction
of tax at the appropriate rate, the net tax payable by the assessee would have
been Nil. 149. In the case of Alcatel, Alcatel has not offered the income to tax while filing

the tax return and also the deductees had not withheld tax on the same. However, in the present case, tax was deducted at source by the customers and

payers in India on payments made to the assessee company and the assessee

company is claiming refund of this tax deducted. The interest obligation has

arisen on account of the AO holding ACC as PE of asseseee in India which 93 resulted in higher assessed income. Further, the Revenue has not brought

anything on record to prove that the assessee has led the Indian payers to

believe that tax was deductible at lower rates. Under these circumstances, we

allow this ground in favor of the assessee. 150. In the result, all the appeals filed by the assesse for the Assessment Year

2003-04 is allowed in part. 151. With respect to the Cross Objections there is a delay in filing of the

same. Further, after making submissions on the issue of Cross Objections for

two days, the Ld.D.R. ultimately submitted that he is withdrawing the same. Hence we dismiss all the Cross Objections filed by the Revenue as being

'withdrawn'. 152. Before parting with the order, we wish to make an observation. While

dealing with some of the grounds of appeal, we have extracted the rival

contentions in an elaborate manner in spite of the fact that we have found it

necessary to set aside those issues. This we have done so, as we expect that

while reexamining the issues set aside by us all the aspects arising out of the

rival contentions elaborated by us in our order will be considered and decided

upon. 153. As stated by us at the beginning of this order, the issues involved in all

the appeals are identical and hence the view taken by us in ITA

No.221/Del/2013 for A.Y.2003-04 is applicable for appeals of all the other

years. In the result, all the appeals filed by the assessee for the AYs 2003-04,

2004-05, 2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10 and 2010-11 are partly allowed and

the Cross Objections filed by the Revenue are dismissed as 'withdrawn'.