We missed this: SEBI has approved certain proposals to tighten regulations on financial influencers according to a press release shared on June 27. The Board Meeting discussed the concerns related to SEBI-regulated entities working with unregistered financial influencers.

According to the regulator, a regulated entity (RE) which includes stock brokers, merchant bankers, portfolio managers, investment advisers, share transfer agents, etc. must not have any transactional connection to “persons who directly or indirectly provide advice or recommendations without being registered with SEBI or make any implicit or explicit claim of return or performance in respect of or related to a security or securities”

This is because the Board has come across cases of “fin-fluencers inducing investors to deal in securities based on inappropriate claims.” Thus, REs can no longer have any transaction with a person who makes public recommendations that implicitly or explicitly promise returns without permission from the Board to give such advice. This includes transactions involving money or money’s worth, client referrals, and IT services. It is also the responsibility of an RE to ensure that the person they are associated with does not partake in “such prohibited activities.”

However, these restrictions do not apply to people who are exclusively engaged in investor education and do not offer advice/recommendations with the promise of monetary gain from investment in securities. They also do not apply to digital platforms which have mechanisms in place to take preventive as well as curative action against those using their platform for advising on securities.

In August 2023 a consultation paper proposed a ban on SEBI-regulated entities from working with unregistered financial influencers. The consultation paper claimed,“Finfluencers may be effectively enticing their followers to purchase products, services, or securities in return for undisclosed compensation from platforms or producers.”

They particularly objected to SEBI registered intermediaries and regulated entities promoting their products and services through unregulated finfluencers.

In order to restrict this they proposed banning regulated entities from having any monetary/non-monetary association to promote their products. They also suggested that REs actively disassociated from finfluencers and proposed banning the sharing of confidential information between the two parties.

The Board also proposed making it mandatory for finfluencers to display their credentials and provide disclosures in their posts. Further, the finfluencers would also have to comply with advertising guidelines issued by SEBI.

SEBI has made note of multiple cases wherein financial influencers gave bad financial advice due to their lack of expertise or for personal gain. This was to the detriment of their followers.

Following the release of the consultation paper on banning regulated entities and finfluencers, SEBI Chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch at the Global FinTech Fest in Mumbai assured that while those giving bad financial advice must be regulated, they did not intend to extend this to platforms.

“We have no desire to bring all tech platforms under our jurisdiction. But if you are not following our rules, then the people who are following our rules, the people who are registered with us, cannot have any dealing with you. It cannot be that people who are expected to follow the rules and do follow the rules, partner with people who have no rules. Because then by definition, the whole ecosystem doesn’t have rules” she said.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event