The education minister of himachal pradesh, suresh bhardwaj has stated that strict action will be taken against any private university which is found selling fake degree certificates. While speaking in the state assembly the minister pointed out that the university grants commission had received a complaint stating that the 18 private universities among which two universities are from himachal pradesh were selling fake degrees. The minister further added that the principal secretary of education has forwarded the letter to the himachal pradesh private institutions regulatory commission for an inquiry. Mr. Bhardwaj also added that no evidence has been provided in the letter and the state police are looking into the matter. The commission, he added has asked for some records from the universities and a complaint has also been made to the director-general of police. The minister stated that strict action will be taken against universities if found selling fake degrees. The opposition leader, mukesh agnihotri who had raised the question against the five lakh fake degrees issued by two universities in the state in the question hour at the assembly had also pointed out that there were reports about the involvement of two private universities of himachal pradesh in a scam of selling fake degrees. According to media reports, the abvp locked down the himachal pradesh private educational institutions regulatory commission (Hppeirc) in protest against the five lakh fake degree certificates issued by the two private universities in the state and the inaction by the hppeirc. Reports suggest that a case under sections 147, 149, 341, ipc has been registered by the shimla police as per the complaint registered by the hppeirc secretary poonam against the protests held in front of the commission office phase iii in new shimla. 1, apex professional university http://www.apexuniversity.ac.in 2, arunachal university of studies http://www.arunachaluniversity.ac.in 3, himalayan university http://www.himalayanuniversity.com 4, north east frontier technical university https://www.neftu.edu.in/ 5, manav bharti university http://www.manavbhartiuniversity.edu.in 6, cmj university http://www.cmjumeghalaya.edu.in/ 7, william carey university http://www.williamcareyuniversity.ac.in 8, techno global university http://technoglobaluniversity.com 9, himalayan garhwal university www.hgu.in 10, quantum university http://quantumuniversity.edu.in/ 11, ybn university 12, shobhit university http://www.srmu.ac.in 13, the glocal university https://www.glocaluniversity.edu.in 14, mewar university http://www.mewaruniversity.org 15, sunrise university 16, singhania university https://singhaniauniversity.co.in 17, calorx teacher's university www.sabarmatiuniversity.edu.in 18, i. E. C. University Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (4)