1. The petitioner has brought the instant civil writ petition under

Articles 226/227 of the Constitution of India seeking quashing of order

dated 13.8.2021 Annexure P10 vide which the respondents want to

 1 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 17-01-2022 04:29:14 ::: CWP-23722-2021(O&M) -2-

replace contractual employees by another set of contractual employees,

which according to him is not permissible in terms of judgment

Hargurpratap Singh Versus State of Punjab and others, 2007(13) SCC

292 and Monika Kadyan and others Versus State of Haryana and others

passed by this Court in CWP No.2324-2010. 2. According to the petitioner, he was appointed as Assistant

Seed Production Officer (hereinafter referred to as ASPO) on contract

basis under outsourcing Policy-I, Government of Haryana on 20.12.2017

and thereafter he continued to work on contract basis; on 15.3.2021, a

complaint was received from Sh.Aditya Bajwan through E-mail; in that

complaint allegations of committing fraud running into crores of rupees

were levelled against Mahender Singh Payal of Fatehabad for fake seed

supply; there was no allegation against the petitioner; the complaint was

got inquired into. 3. Nevertheless the petitioner was served with a show-cause

notice that he was also involved in the scam; he submitted reply to the

show-cause notice pleading his innocence. However, without taking into

consideration his reply vide order dated 25.6.2021, respondent No.2 -

Managing Director, Haryana Seeds Development Corporation (hereinafter

referred to as HSDC), Panchkula dispensed with services of the petitioner

from that very date and he was accordingly relieved from service. The

petitioner had approached this Court by filing CWP No.12206 of 2021

challenging that order. On getting notice, respondents had appeared

through counsel. However, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

respondents had submitted in that writ petition that the impugned order be

 2 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 17-01-2022 04:29:14 ::: CWP-23722-2021(O&M) -3-

treated as withdrawn and as the term of the services of the petitioner,

keeping in view the contract, had already expired and as per statement

made by him in case the petitioner had any claim for salary or any other

admissible monetary benefit for any period before the expiry of that

contract then he could file a representation, which would be considered

and in case any salary or other monetary benefit was yet to be released,

the same would be released. In view of the statement, counsel for the

petitioner had withdrawn the writ petition with liberty to submit a

representation. The representation was accordingly submitted. However,

the petitioner was not allowed to continue in service after 25.6.2021 and

now the respondents intend to replace the services of petitioner by another

contractual employee, giving rise to a cause of action to the petitioner to

file the instant writ petition. 4. Notice of the writ petition was given to respondents, who put

in appearance through their counsel. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going

through the record and I find that the present writ petition is devoid of any

merit and is doomed for failure. 6. As far as judgment Hargurpratap Singh (surpa) on which the

petitioners are relying upon in support of their contention that one

contractual employee cannot be replaced by another contractual

employee, that does not mean that if the work and conduct of the

contractual employee is not satisfactory, even then the employer is under

compulsion to continue retain such employee in service. In the present

case, on receipt of complaint, the matter was got probed, show-cause

 3 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 17-01-2022 04:29:14 ::: CWP-23722-2021(O&M) -4-

notices were issued to the petitioner and other allegedly involved in the

scam to which they had submitted replies and thereafter the contract of the

petitioner and other such persons were not extended. If an employer does

not extend the contract period of the employee, then most of the times,

there is element of not satisfaction with the work and conduct of such

employee, though that may not be clearly mentioned in the order for non-

grant of further extension in service. That factor cannot be exaggerated

and blown out of proportion so as to term it as stigmatic in nature. The

petitioner does not have any vested right for continuation in service that

rather depends upon his performing duties up to the satisfaction of his

employer, which in this case was not there. Even otherwise, no stigmatic

order has been passed while not extending the contract period of the

petitioner. 7. As far as the contention of learned counsel for the petitioner

that some employees juniors to the petitioner have been retained in

service, again I do not find this argument to be worthy of any attention.

Seniority list of only regular employees is prepared and not of employees

on contractual basis. If the employer find the work and conduct of any

particular employee to be satisfactory, then he can be allowed continuance

in service, whereas service of the employees not working properly in a

satisfactory manner can be dispensed with. That cannot be termed as

policy of hire and fire or an act motivated by any prejudice or vendetta. If

services of some employee are terminated without any rhyme or reason in

an arbitrary manner, then such type of allegations may be subjected to

judicial review but not when an employer refuses to re-hire an employee,

 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 17-01-2022 04:29:14 ::: CWP-23722-2021(O&M) -5-

whose work and performance was not found proper and appropriate.

Therefore, the judgment Hargurpratap Singh (supra) is not helpful to the

petitioners in any manner. 8. Learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to judgment

passed by a Single Bench of this Court in CWP-19281-2018 titled

Rashmi Sharma Versus Mewat Development Agency and others.

However, facts of that case were quite different inasmuch as employee

working on contractual basis was terminated by placing reliance upon

some reports submitted by Principal, Mewat Model School, which she

was confronted. It was observed that respondents in such circumstances

were required to find veracity and genuineness of the alleged

complaint/allegations. In this case, on receipt of complaint, the matter was

got inquired into, show-cause notice was issued to the petitioner, his

response thereto was obtained and then it was decided not to extend his

contract period. Even otherwise, the language used in the orders

challenged in the first civil writ petition, which were alleged to be

stigmatic, no longer has any relevance with the orders in question being

withdrawn. Therefore, this judgment is not helpful to the petitioner. 9. In judgment State of Maharashtra & Ors. Versus Anita &

Anr. Etc. passed by the Apex Court in Civil Appeal Nos.6132-33 of 2016

arising out of SLP(C) Nos.34788-34789 of 2012, while dealing with a

matter of contractual appointments, the Apex Court had observed that

once the terms and conditions of appointments providing for contractual

ad hoc appointment, were accepted, the appointees cannot question the

validity thereof and claim that the appointments were regular in nature. 10. Under the circumstances, the writ petition is bound to fail and

is dismissed accordingly.