The above appeal filed by the Assessee and Cross Appeal filed
by the Revenue are against the order of the Ld. CIT(A)/NFAC dt.
10/05/2024 for the Assessment Year 2019-20. 2. Firstly, we shall deal with the appeal of the Assessee in ITA No.
715/Chd/2024 wherein following grounds have been raised: Assessment Unit. Income Tax Department in restricting the addition on account of
 purchases made from various parties to Rs. 59.20,585 (being 12.5% of Rs.
 4,73,64,687/- i.e. the aggregate of purchases of Rs. 63,84.522/- made from Gauri
 Shankar Trading Co. and Rs. 4,11,60.437/- from five parties (i.e. M/s Tejinder
 Fabricators. Prop Gaurav Dhir - Rs. 25,93,105/-, M/s Radhika Enterprises, Prop Rahul
 Tiwari - Rs. 15.03,504/-, M/s Garg Trading Co, Prop Raj Kumar - Rs. 1,73,18,821/-,
 M/s Aryan International. Delhi, Prop Aditya Pnpreja - Rs. 5,46,167/-and M/s Akriti
 Industries, Prop Sanjeev Kumar - Rs. 1,91.98,840/-) as reduced by the returned loss
 of Rs. 1,80,272/- by allegedly holding the said purchases to be bogus. 3. That the order dated 10.05.2024 passed u/s 250 of the Act by the National
 Faceless Appeal Centre (NFAC), Delhi is against law and facts on the file in as
 much as he was not justified to uphold the action of the Ld. Assessing Officer.
 Assessment Unit, Income Tax Department in framing the assessment by ignoring
 the basic principles of natural justice by relying on statements of various persons
 and data without affording the Appellant any opportunity to cross examine such
 persons, thus, making the assessment bad in law. That the order dated 10.05,2024 passed u/s 250 of the Act by the National
 Faceless Appeal Centre (NFAC). Delhi is against law andfuels on thefile in as much
 as he was not justified to uphold the action of the Ld. Assessing Officer in passing
 the appellateorder without providing an opportunity of being heard to the
 Appellant Company either video conferencing or any other means as prescribed
 in the Departmental instructions for which a specific request was also made to
 the Ld. Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals), NFAC. That the Appellant craves to add, amend, alter, modify or delete any or all of the
 grounds of appeal before or at the time of hearing. 3. Briefly, facts of the case are that Waryam Steel Castings Private
Limited, a private limited company is engaged in the manufacture
of steel products, specifically steel ingots, by melting iron scrap in
electric furnaces. For the Assessment Year 2019-20, the company
filed its return of income on 30.10.2019, declaring a loss of Rs.
1,80,272/- under normal provisions and an income of Rs. 62,98,757/-
under Section 115JB of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The company's
turnover for the year was reported at Rs. 134.08 crores. Based on
information from the Insight Portal regarding a purchase transaction
of Rs. 63,84,522 with M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. (GSTC), a
proprietorship concern of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh, the AO initiated
proceedings under Section 148A . A show-cause notice was issued
on 21.03.2023, and after considering the assessee's reply dated
28.03.2023, a notice under Section 148 was issued on 31.03.2023. The
assessee filed a return on 26.04.2023, declaring income of Rs.
62,98,757 under Section 115JB . During the assessment, the AO issued
notices under Sections 143(2) , 142(1) , and 133(6) to verify the
purchases, including those from GSTC and five other parties: M/s
Tejinder Fabricators, M/s Radhika Enterprises, M/s Garg Trading Co.,
M/s Aryan International-Delhi, and M/s Akriti Industries, totaling Rs.
4,11,60,437. The AO's inquiries, supported by the Verification Unit's
reports, led to the assessment order dated 24.01.2024 under Section
147 , computing the total income at Rs. 4,73,64,687/- by disallowing
purchases deemed bogus. 3.1 The AO found that M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. (GSTC) was a
fraudulent entity with no actual business, based on investigations by
the DGGI, GST Intelligence, Delhi Zone, and the Income Tax
Department's Investigation Wing. Rahul Pratap Singh, the proprietor
of GSTC, stated on oath that neither he nor his family were
associated with GSTC, claiming it was a fake entity created without
his knowledge. The AO noted discrepancies in GSTC's operations,
including its registration in 2018, cancellation in the following year,
and failure to file income tax returns despite reporting sales of Rs.
2,31,83,49,973/- in FY 2018-19 with minimal purchases. The AO issued
a notice under Section 133(6) to Rahul Pratap Singh, which went
unanswered, and the Verification Unit confirmed the lack of
transactions with the assessee. The AO also observed irregularities in
the bill numbers issued by GSTC, which were non-sequential, and
concluded that the transportation bills were unreliable.
Consequently, the AO disallowed the purchase of Rs. 63,84,522/-
from GSTC as bogus. 3.2 For the purchases from the five other parties (M/s Tejinder
Fabricators, M/s Radhika Enterprises, M/s Garg Trading Co., M/s
Aryan International-Delhi, and M/s Akriti Industries), totaling Rs.
4,11,60,437, the AO issued notices under Section 133(6) , which either
went unanswered or could not be served due to incorrect or non-
existent addresses. The Verification Unit reported that: 4,11,60,437/- as bogus, concluding that the assessee failed to
establish the genuineness of these transactions. Consequently, the
AO added Rs. 4,75,44,959/- (Rs. 63,84,522/- + Rs. 4,11,60,437/-) to the 6 assessee's total income, determining it at Rs. 4,73,64,687/- under
normal provisions, while retaining Rs. 62,98,757/- under section 115JB .
Penalty proceedings under sections 270A , 271B , and 272A(1)(d) were
initiated for under-reporting income, failure to file an audit report,
and non-compliance with statutory notices, respectively. Interest
under sections 234A , 234B , and 234C was also charged. 4. Against the order of the Ld. AO the assessee went in appeal
before the Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. CIT(A) in the impugned order held as
under: 5.1. The facts relevant for the present appeal: In response to which, return of income was filed on 26.04.2023
declaring income of Rs. 62,98,757/- as per the provisions of section
115JB of the Act. The notices u/s 143(2) and 142(1) alongwith
questionnaires were issued to the Appellant Company from time to
time which were responded to, and requisite information/details
furnished. 5.1.3. During the course of assessment proceedings, a notice u/s
133(6) were also issued to RPS and also to some of the parties from
whom the appellant had allegedly made purchases. As most of
these notices were returned un-served and no response was
received from the noticees, the matter was referred to the
Verification Unit. On the basis of the facts known to the AO, the
report received from the verification unit, the AO, after issuing show
cause notice and considering the reply filed by the appellant,
disallowed the alleged purchase made from GSTC amounting to
Rs.63,84,522/- as bogus purchase. In addition, the alleged purchase
made from some other parties, the name and detail of which shall
be discussed later in this order amounting to Rs.4,11,60,437/- was
also disallowed as bogus purchases. 5.1.4. Aggrieved by the above decision of the AO, the assessee is in
present appeal. 5.2. Ground No. 1: This ground is general in nature,
therefore, it need not be adjudicated separately.
5.3. Ground No. 2: In this ground, the appellant has argued that the
very assumption of jurisdiction to reassess without conducting and
independent inquiry is bad in law. While making this argument,
apparently the appellant has ignored the discretionary power
vested in the AO u/s 148A(a) to conduct an inquiry with prior
approval of specified authority if he requires to do so, after receipt
of information. The argument of the appellant is not maintainable
as it is not correct appreciation of law. This ground is dismissed.
5.4. Ground No. 3: In this regard, it is to mention that the party Rahul Pratap Singh,
PAN: DDMPS9057P has clearly submitted his reply that he has not
transacted with the assessee. Therefore, the assessee is better
knows the better answer as it has taken the entries in its books of
accounts. It is very important to mention here that the assessee has 9 submitted transport bills in support of evidence that the purchased
goods has been delivered to its address. The details of these bills
are tabulated below: He had also affirmed during these statements that the above
concern was fake. The above averment was one of the reason but
not only reason as to why the alleged transaction of purchase
reported by the appellant from GSTC was treated as bogus. During
the course of assessment proceedings, the appellant had made a
request to cross examine of RPS who was the holder of the PAN and
GST no. which was being used by GSTC. In this regard, the AO had
decided the following- 5.4.5. During the course of the present proceedings, the following
arguments were made, by the appellant, in support of this ground.
These arguments not only address to the concluding reasoning of
the AO on the basis of which he has treated the alleged purchases
made from GSTC as bogus, but also argues against some of the
other findings made by the AO elsewhere in the impugned order:- During F.Y. 2018-19 it has reported total sales of Rs. 2,31,83,49,973/-
with total purchase of just Rs. 9,52,381/-. (d) Upon analysing the Bank account details of the said party it has
been gathered that Gauri Shankar Trading Co has only one bank
account with Punjab National Bank with account No.
1603000102147418. However, total credit during F.Y. 2018-19 in this
account is Rs. 3,17,007/- against total debit of Rs. 3,19,964/-. (e) Summons were issued u/s 131(1A) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 to
Shri Rahul Pratap Singh, Prop of Gauri Shankar Trading Co whose
statement was recorded on oath. In his statement, Sh
Rahul Pratap Singh stated that neither him nor any of his/her family
members are associated with Gauri Shankar Trading Co. Further he
has stated that he has no idea about who created this entity and
that this Company is totally fake. The mobile number and email id
that was used to create GST No. for Gauri Shankar Trading Co was
never used by him. (f) It is thus, allegedly, clear that Gauri Shankar Treading Co is a
fake company issuing bogus bills to beneficiaries. As per GST return
data, during the F.Y. 2018-19 the Appellant Company entered into
bogus purchases with Gauri Shankar Treading Co for Rs. 63,84,522/-.
(4) In response thereto replies dated 28.03.2023 and 29.11.2023
were duly filed during both the proceedings u/s 148A and
subsequent assessment proceedings alongwith exhaustive
documentary evidence which, however, were not found
acceptable by the Ld. Assessing Officer resulting in the impugned
addition. (5) At the outset, the allegation of the Department, allegedly,
based on investigations carried on by the department along and
statement(s) recorded that purchase of Rs. 63,84,522/- from M/s
Gauri Shankar Trading Co., a proprietorship concern of Shri Rahul
Partap Singh (PAN- DDMPS9057P) is bogus is vehemently denied.
(6) In this context and as colloquially understood, bogus purchase
would refer to purchases which are merely reflected in the books of
accounts but are not backed/supported by actual purchase of
goods/materials. It is the humble, yet vehement submission on
behalf of the Appellant Company that considering the entire
gamut of evidence duly backing the said purchase viewed in the
context of the facts and circumstances of the case, no cause exists
or even arises to even suggest that the said purchases are bogus. In
this connection, a detailed discussion duly supported by
documentary evidence is as below. (7) A perusal of copy of Ledger Account of M/s Gauri Shankar 13 Trading Co. in the books of the Appellant Company (enclosed
 herewith) reveals the following: Moreover, the said Department having duly done their respective
 verification/due diligence exercise(s) the Appellant Company,
 dealing with the said party on an arms' length basis, was absolved
 of any further responsibility in the matter whereby the existence and
 credibility of the said party stands duly proved beyond doubt.
 (9) Further, the Appellant Company has received goods, which
 were integral to its manufacturing process, through transport
 agencies as per the following bill-wise details: The reflection of the said amount in GSTR -2A (which is auto
generated without any manual intervention) and on the basis of
GSTR-1 (i.e. the detail of outward suppliers) of the said party is by
itself sufficient credible evidence of the movement and receipt of
goods whereby the genuineness of the transaction and eligibility of
the Appellant Company to claim input tax credit become evident.
(14) The GST Department having allowed credit against such
purchase, merely on the basis of statement it cannot be said that
the details in GSTR-2A are wrong. Both GSTR-1 and GSTR-2A being
auto generated on the GST portal are themselves sufficient
evidence of the underlying transactions with no scope for any doubt
therein whereby the purchases get duly evidenced and justified. (15) With regard to the Ld. Assessing Officer's averment that as per
various investigations carried out by DGGI, GST intelligence, Delhi
Zone R.K. Puram and by Investigation Wing of Income Tax
Department, Gauri Shankar Trading Co has, allegedly been
determined to be a fraud company, allegedly, involved in fake ITC
bill, it is submitted that the Appellant Company has used tax paid on
purchases from M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. as input on the basis
of GSTR-2A filed by the said party. (16) Merely on the basis of ITR filed by Gauri Shankar Trading Co
showing "Nil" income it cannot be established that Gauri Shankar
Trading Co is a fake company as sales and purchase must have
been considered by Gauri Shankar Trading Co. to determine
income. Income is derived by considering the entire scenario of
commercial/business operations, wherein even after substantial
activity, considering the rigors of business, income might be low or
even a loss. (17) As regards the allegation in the bank account number
1603000102147418 with Punjab National Bank total credits are of Rs.
3,17,007/- in the F.Y. 2018-19, it is quite possible, in fact inevitable that
M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. might be using another bank
account which is not in the possession of the Department. As per the
information available with the Appellant Company, M/s Gauri
Shankar Trading Co. is maintaining a bank account with Bandhan
Bank where payments made by the
Appellant Company are credited. The Appellant Company has
made payments in the current account in the name of Gauri
Shankar Trading Co and not in bank account 1603000102147418
which is a savings account in the name of Shri Rahul Partap Singh.
(18) In view of the above, since the purchase and subsequent
receipt of goods is evidenced by E-Way Bills, goods has been
transported through vehicle mentioned in the E-way bill, production
has been made against the goods purchased (which are a
necessary ingredient of its production process) and sale duly
reflected in the accounts merely on the basis of statement of Shri
Rahul Pratap Singh it cannot be concluded that all such evidence
cannot be relied upon. (19) Shri Rahul Partap Singh proprietor of Gauri Shankar Trading Co.
has, allegedly, stated in his statement recorded on oath by Income
Tax Department, subsequent to summon issued u/s 131(1A) , that
neither him nor any of his family member are associated with Gauri
Shankar Trading Co and has, allegedly, even denied to have 16 created the said entity. By using such evasive and diversionary
tactics Shri Rahul Partap Singh is clearly getting himself free from his
acts and the affairs of Gauri Shanking Trading Co. However the fact
remains that M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. exists, its bank account
is being operated and ITR and GST Return are being filed. This makes
it clear that either Shri Rahul Partap Singh or some person acting on
his behalf is responsible for the said transactions without which it is
impossible to comprehend the manifestation of so many evidences
to prove the existence of M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co.
(20) With regard to the said concern having in F/Y 2018-19 reported
total sales of Rs. 2,31,83,49,973/-, the same are a matter of record
and there is no doubt as to their authenticity and correctness.
(21) With regard to the Mobile number and e-mail id that was used
to create GST Number for M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co., allegedly,
being never used by him, the Appellant Company is unable to
comment since his mobile number and e-mail id is not mentioned in
the bill. (22) The Ld. Assessing Officer has not been able to controvert the
above argument or to disprove the evidences furnished or to
provide any evidence which could show that the evidence on
which the Appellant Company has relied are wrong or fraudulent.
The various evidences which have been furnished on behalf of the
Appellant Company to establish that purchase is genuine has not
been denied/rebutted by the Department except the statement of
supplier of which the evidentiary value is itself subject to question in
the absence of an opportunity for cross-examination.
(23) The blanket, yet unwholesome, reliance solely on the statement
of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh pales into insignificance in the light of the
plethora of evidences and fact including the bills issued by the
supplier, delivery made through transport, e-way bill generated and
payment made through banking channels in his bank account.
Moreover, the basic documents available with the Appellant
Company and filed before the Ld. Assessing Officer viz. Purchase Bill,
Transport Bill, Payment through Banking Channel, confirmation of
supply by way of uploading GSTR-1 by the supplier have not been
rebutted by the Department. (24) The balance of equity heavily favours the Appellant Company
given the weight, nature and authenticity of the documents
furnished when viewed against the evidence of Shri Rahul Pratap
Singh which is one sided given the lack of opportunity for cross
examination provided to the Appellant Company. (25) The various arguments, specious at best, spelt out by the Ld.
Assessing Officer to reject the arguments made on behalf of the
Appellant Company are decisively rebutted as follows: The stock register itself reflects purchases not from only M/s Gauri
Shankar Trading Co. but also from other parties with the balance
remaining as a part of stock as on 31.03.2019 for preparing balance
sheet and calculating profit and loss account. (i) In the instant case also, the impugned transactions were carried
out by the Appellant Company within the four corners and defined
parameters of law. The Assessing Officer, apart from relying on
uncorroborated pieces of third party evidences/statements which
were not subjected to cross examination by the Appellant
Company herein, and the doctrine of apparent not being real
(Delhi High Court judgment in the case of Sumati Dayal) has nothing
concrete whatsoever to establish a case against the Appellant
Company . He has unflinchingly failed to prove, by bringing on
record some cogent evidence that the impugned transactions were
bogus. The Appellant Company on the other hand has submitted
conclusive documentary evidences in support of its claim, which the
Assessing Officer has decidedly failed to controvert. (j) The Ld. Assessing Officer has also placed strong reliance, rather
unilaterally, on the theory of apparent not being real by relying
upon the decisions of the Delhi High Court in the cases of Sumati
Dayal vs. CIT . In this connection, it is humbly submitted that,
although it is a normal rule governing civil proceedings that a fact
can be said to have been established if proved by a
preponderance of probabilities or circumstantial evidence, it should
be noted that the same comes into prominence only when it is hard
to unearth direct evidence or demonstrative proof with respect to a
particular fact. Only in a case where the direct evidence is either of
questionable quality or which has been effectively countered and
negated since no prima - facie evidence is available, is the resort to
secondary evidence on the basis of preponderance of probabilities
warranted. (k) It may also be mentioned here that while the theory of apparent
not being real (preponderance of probabilities) does form a part of
legal lexicon, the same has to be applied in a nuanced manner
suitably iterated to the facts of any case and only when direct
evidence to attest to a certain state of affairs is not available, which
is not the situation in the instant case. The doctrine being so far
reaching in its approach has to be applied in a selective and an
extremely cautious and calibrated manner. Given the voluminous 20 and authenticate data filed on behalf of the Appellant Company,
no cause remains, in fact none arises with regard to the transactions
entered with M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co mere suspicion and
overlook or override the dominant inescapable factual situation (l) In this connection kind attention is invited to the judgment of
Special Bench of Hon'ble Mumbai Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in
the case of GTC industries Ltd. v. ACIT [(2017) 164 ITD 1 (Mumbai
Trib.) (SB)] wherein the Hon'ble Tribunal has pertinently observed as
under: In view of the above there is no ground to hold that the given
purchases from M/s Gauri Shankar Co are bogus whereby the said
addition is not called for and it is prayed for the disposal of this
ground in the light of the submissions made above.
5.4.6. I have carefully perused the order of assessment and the
submission made by the appellant. The arguments made by the
appellant, in support of genuineness of the transactions of purchase,
are summed up as follows:- He further adds that it was for the department to find out as to who
was conducting the business under the name of M/s Gauri Shankar
Trading Company. v) The appellant has also challenged the decision of the AO
which is based upon the statement of Rahul Pratap Singh as he was
not given opportunity to cross examine the said person, the
statement of which is pivotal evidence for the decision of the AO.
5.4.7. The arguments at clause i), ii) and iii) of para 5.4.6 above,
suffers from logical fallacy referred to as circulus in
probandoorCircular reasoning. In this fallacy, the reasoner (herein
the appellant) begins with what they are trying to end with.[Circular
reasoning is not a formal logical fallacy, but a pragmatic defect in
an argument. In this fallacy, the premises need to be proved the
same way as the conclusion. In a normal argument, the premises do
not need to be proved. Since in the present argument the premises
also need to be proved, the argument does not persuade. There is
no reason to accept the premises unless a person already believes
the conclusion. In the present lis, the premise of the AO, based upon
his findings, is that supplier of the Good namely the GSTC is a fraud
concern which is engaged into providing entries relating to ITC
claim. Therefore it is concluded by him that the bills of sale issued by
it, will be bogus or fraudulent. As the objective of these fraudulent
bills is to provide ITC claims to the appellant it has to have all and
correct mention of e way bill. The filing of GSTR returns is also
mandatory pre requisite to pass on fictitious ITC claim to the
appellant. To counter this proposition of the AO, the appellant
assumes and argues that the bills are true and correct and therefore
the supplier GSTC exist. The conclusions drawn by the AO has been 22 treated as premises by the appellant, therefore in his arguments the
correctness of the conclusion drawn by the AO need not be proven.
In other words, when the correctness or the authenticity of the bills
are in question, the appellant needs to first prove the correctness of
the bills by proving inter alia that the actual transaction that is
evidenced by the papers had in fact taken place instead of
building his argument that the documents relating to transaction is
genuine. Further, the appellant herein, fails to prove or establish the
person with whom he had transacted. How the order of purchase
was placed. If RPS has denied have entered into any transaction
with the appellant, it was on the appellant to bring forth the name
of person with whom the order was placed and with whom the
discussion relating to the transactions were affected. Further it was
proven as to where are the godowns of the supplier, what was the
point of collection of scrap by the seller, particularly when the office
of seller was located at residential cum commercial area. He also
fails to adduce the primary documents which can prove that the
goods allegedly purchased were actually received by him. The
production of stock register does not prove the receipt of good by
the appellant particularly in the circumstances where the Auditors of
the Accounts of the appellant do not even certify that the
appellant has maintained stock register much less any such book
was audited by him. In simpler words, when the authenticity of the
bills issued by a fraudulent seller (GSTC) is under question the
appellant can not build up his whole argument on the basis of the
assumption that the bills issued by the fictitious seller are genuine
and they in turn persuade the genuineness of the seller. 5.4.8. Let us now examine the argument made by the assessee
which has been summarised at clause iv) of para 5.4.6. above. It is
settled law that in order to claim an expenditure, the onus of proof
lies on the appellant. On the issue relating to onus of proof, it would
be profitable to refer to the ratio decided by Hon'ble Supreme Court
in CIT v. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 (SC). The Hon'ble
Supreme Court pointed out that on the question of onus law does
not prescribe any quantitative test to find out whether the onus in a
particular case has been discharged or not andit depends on the
facts and circumstances of each case. It was further held that in
some cases, the onus may be heavy whereas in others, it may be
nominal. Insimilar circumstances in K. Laxmanan v. Thekkayil Padmini
& Ors. , AIR 2009 SC 951, Hon'ble Supreme Court held "that when
there are suspicious circumstances regarding the execution of the
Will, the onus is also on the propounder to explain them to the
satisfaction of the Court and only when such responsibility is 23 discharged, the Court would accept the Will as genuine. Even
where there are no such pleas, but circumstances give rise to doubt,
it is on the propounder to satisfy the conscience of the Court. In such
a case, the Court would naturally expect that all legitimate
suspicion should be completely removed before the document is
accepted as the last Will of the testator." In the circumstances of the
present case where there are overwhelming evidences and finding
by different investigating government agencies that the GSTC was a
fraudulent company, merely production of some of the
documentary evidences, which in normal course of assessment
proceedings are treated to be discharge of onus to prove the
genuineness of expenditure may not be treated as discharge of
onus and the onus shall not shift to the revenue, as argued by the
appellant. The appellant has failed to even bring forth the name of
the person or persons with whom he had transacted. Particularly
when RPS had categorically denied having entered into any
transaction with the appellant. 5.4.9. Let us now direct ourselves to the argument at clause v) of
para 5.4.6 above. In this argument the assessee proposes that the
denial of cross examination vitiates the process of assessment. It is
observed that in deciding that the sale of scrap by GSTC to the
appellant as bogus transaction, the AO took support from the fact
that the alleged proprietor of M/s GSTC had denied to have any
business in trading of scrap. However, the decision of the AO was
not solely based upon the statement of RPS. The fact stands
admitted by the appellant too. This is apparent from the following
relevant extract from the submission made by him on this ground:- In this situation, it needs to be examined whether the decision of the
AO can be treated as erroneous on the basis of the fact that the
opportunity to cross examine was not given to the appellant. As
already mentioned in para 5.4.4, the AO is of the opinion that the
circumstances of the case did not mandate cross examination of
Rahul Pratap Singh for arriving at the decision on this ground. The
high court of Calcutta, in the landmark recent case Pr CIT vs. Swati 24 Bajaj [2022] 139 taxmann.com 352 (Calcutta), has reviewed the law
on the proposition being argued here. It has after the review of
various authorities on subject matter concluded that failure to
provide opportunity to cross examine does not, in all fact situations,
vitiates the assessment order, particularly when the entire case of
the revenue is not based solely on the statement so recorded. To
extract from the decision of the Hon'ble High Court:- 5.4.10. In terms of the discussion above, I am of the opinion that the
appellant has failed in establishing the genuineness of purchase of
scrap from GSTC. Therefore, the purchases amounting to
Rs.63,84,522/- is hereby considered to be bogus.
5.5. Ground No. 4: ii) Mr. Gaurav Dhir, Prop. of M/s Tejinder Fabricators, did not reside at
the given address on the date of inquiry. Notice could not be served
on him, therefore, the question of receipt of reply to the notice does
not arise. iii) Mr. Aditya Pupreja, Prop. of M/s Aryan International - Delhi,
the Inspector of VU reports that at the given address no such firm
ever existed. Rather, at the said address there was another concern
in name and style of Dental Solutions was being run by one Dr. Preeti
Gaba. None of the local shop owners had ever heard of Mr. Aditya
Pupreja. iv) Mr. Rahul Tiwari owner of M/s Radhika Enterprises, the Inspector
of VU reports that at the given address there was a closed workshop
and no one in the vicinity knew about Mr. Rahul Tiwari. v) Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Prop. of M/s Akriti Industries, the Inspector of
VU reports that the address given was incorrect. Therefore, notice
could not be served upon the person. 5.5.3. Based upon the above report and also other investigation
undertaken by the AO himself, he enlists the following reason as to
why he has treated the alleged purchases made from these parties
as bogus. i. The assessee has claimed purchases from the above parties who
have not filed return of income for the year under consideration. As
the major purchase parties have not filed their return of income for
the assessment year under consideration i.e. A.Y. 2019-20, the
transaction made by the assessee with these parties are not found
to be verifiable. ii. The above mentioned parties have not replied to the notice u/s
133(6) of the Act even after service of the notice through their
registered email id. iii. On physical verification from the Verification Unit, these parties
were not found at the given / registered address / and not furnished
reply (details already furnished in the SCN),
iv. The Assessee has not provided Email of these suppliers in spite of
the fact that the assessee must have been in possession of the
information in view of GST purchases made (where further
communication channel required for proper ITC claim based on
supplier return). v. Assessee has also not provided any latest dated account
confirmation statement from these suppliers confirming the
genuineness of the transactions. v. The assessee has majorly claimed purchases out of above parties
who have newly registered with GST (registered during the year
under consideration only). vi Assessee's submission (including invoices, transport voucher
copies, stock ledger) regarding show cause reason 'why the
purchases made should not be treated as bogus purchase' found
unsatisfactory not only in view of factual observation made in the
show cause notice dated 26/12/2023 but also in view of
additionalinformation/evidence being discussed after analysis of
audit report filed during assessment proceedings which is already
mentioned above. vii. It is noticed that the assessee has not engaged with business with
these parties regularly but made transactions for a limited period
during the year which can be seen from the above table at point
no 4.5.2.1.3. viii. The assessee has furnished month wise accumulative stock
register and not day wise stock register which shows daily incoming
and outgoing of stock. As stated above, in the submitted audit
report also, it is seen that Stock Register was not maintained and
audited by the Auditor. ix. Payment through banking channel does not prove the
genuineness and nature of the transaction, thus, the same is also not
acceptable. x. It is also pertinent to mention here that only few transporters and
that also common are shown as transporter of these suppliers.
xi. Further, the bills issued by the suppliers / claimed by the assessee
in respect of its purchases and transportation details mentioned
thereon is placed below along with other remarks: In this connection the following submissions are being made for and
on behalf of the Appellant Company: However, it appears that the following parties did not reply to the
same: (2) As per the contents of the assessment order it appears that the
matter was also referred to the Verification Unit which apparently
carried out a physical verification and found or that these parties
did not exist. In addition, the Ld. Assessing Officer has also returned a
finding that there is no response from some parties to the notice
issued u/s 133(6) or that the notice could not be served on them or
that they could not be found at the given address.
(3) In view of the same the Ld. Assessing Officer vide show cause
notice dated 26.12.2023 asked the Appellant Company to show
cause as to why the amount of Rs. 4,78,86,229/- should be
disallowed and added to the total income on account of, alleged,
non-genuine purchases from the said party. In response thereto
exhaustive replies were filed, which were however not found 30 acceptable by the Ld. Assessing Officer , resulting in the impugned
addition
(4) In this regard the submissions made before the Ld. Assessing
Officer are being reiterated and reinforced below.
(5) (a) With respect to purchases from the impugned parties the
following documents were filed before the Ld. Assessing Officer and
are again being enclosed herewith to authenticate the factum of
purchases from them: Moreover, no opportunity of cross-examination of the said parties
was also provided to the Appellant Company. Thus purchases so
made which is well recorded in the stock register and production
register, cannot be a bogus purchase. 5.5.5. I have carefully perused the reason for disallowance given by
the AO in the impugned order and also the submission made by the 33 appellant. Fact remains that the appellant during the course of
assessment proceedings could not produced basic documentary
evidence such as confirmation from the alleged seller. Filing of
confirmation assumes significance in view of the fact that the parties
from whom the alleged purchase has been recorded, do not even
exist at the given address much less have a premises at which scrap
can be bought and stored for it's sale. In few of the cases, the given
address is patently incorrect, therefore, the very identity of the seller
is under cloud. Consequently, the genuineness of the documents
issued by these paper suppliers are questionable. Here again, it is
emphasised that the appellant cannot successfully argue existence
of the sellers on the basis of the documents issued by those paper
concerns. The fallacy in this argument has already been elaborately
discussed in para 5.4.7 above. In para 5.4.8 above, the onus of
proving the genuineness of an expenditure has also been
elaborately discussed. In terms of discussion in those paragraphs
and for the reason already discussed above, the purchases from
these parties are considered to be bogus. 5.6. Arguments common to ground no 3 and 4: Principal Commissioner of Income-tax v. Nitin Ramdeoji Lohia [2022]
145 taxmann.com 546 (Bombay) 34 (ii) Section 69 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - Unexplained investments
(Bogus purchase)
Assessment year 2009-10 - Where Assessing Officer had not brought
any material on record to conclusively establish fact that purchases
were bogus, merely relying upon information from Sales Tax
Department or fact that parties were not produced Assessing Officer
could not have treated purchases as bogus and made addition [In
favour of assessee] Geolife Organics v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax-23 (2),
Mumbai [2017] 88 taxmann.com 756 (Mumbai - Trib.) (iii) Merely on suspicion based on information received from sales tax
authority, Assessing officer could not make additions on account of
bogus purchases without carrying out independent enquiry and
affording opportunity to assessee to controvert statements made by
seller. Principal Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shapoorji Pallonji & Co. Ltd [2020] 117 taxmann.com 625 (Bombay) (iv) Section 69C of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - Unexplained
expenditure (Bogus purchases) Assessee made payments to several
suppliers for supply of goods - Assessing Officer made additions
under section 69C on account of such payments - Tribunal deleted
addition, inter alia, on grounds that Assessing Officer made such
additions merely relying on material collected by Sales Tax
Department - He relied on submissions of witnesses without offering
them for cross examination - There was no independent evidence
that assessee's suppliers were not genuine - It was noted that
assessee had also pointed out that payments were made through
cheques - Whether there was no any error in view of Tribunal, thus,
impugned addition under section 69C were correctly deleted - Held,
yes Principal Commissioner of Income Tax v. Uni Packs (India ) [2019]
108 taxmann.com 454 (Bombay). (v) Where assessee-proprietor, engaged in resale of industrial
goods, made payments through banking channels towards certain
purchases and furnished evidences in form of delivery challans,
purchase bills etc. relating to same, Tribunal was justified in holding
that assessee had discharged initial burden or onus of providing
details of parties and, thus, case did not fall within ambit of section
69C . Principal Commissioner of Income-tax v. Jagdish Thakkar [2022] 145
taxmann.com 414 (Bombay). (vi) Where in order to establish genuineness of purchase
transactions, assessee broughton record name and address of
parties, their PAN, TDS deducted, date of bills, details of cheques
issued, etc., in such a case, he could not be held responsible for
parties not appearing in person and, thus, impugned addition made
under section 69C deserved to be deleted. Principal Commissioner of Income-tax, Mumbai v. Chawla Interbild
Construction Co. (P.) Ltd [2019] 104 taxmann.com 402 (Bombay) (vii) Where sales supported purchase and payment was made
through banks, merely because suppliers had not appeared before
Assessing Officer purchase could not be rejected as bogus. Commissioner of Income-tax-1, Mumbai v. Nikunj Eximp Enterprises
(P .) Ltd [2013] 35 taxmann.com 384 (Bombay). (viii) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and
in law, Tribunal was justified in holding that provisions of section 69C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 are not applicable in case of bogus
purchases or sales where the genuineness of the transaction is not
explained or explanation offered by the assessee is not satisfactory
and the same is to be treated as income of the assessee ? Whether
on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law,
Tribunal was justifed in holding that in order to prove genuineness of
the said purchase transaction even though assessee did not provide
any lorry receipts or delivery challans for the delivery of goods and
that the same fact is established by the Assessing Officer, then is it
mandatory for the Assessing Officer to limit himself to the mere
submission and other documents provided by the assessee even
though the purchases are non-genuine? Pr. Commissioner Of Income Tax - 13 vs Vaman International [2020]
422 ITR 0520 (Bom) (ix) Where assessee had submitted purchase bills, transportation bills,
confirmed copy of accounts and VAT Registration of sellers as also
their Income-tax Return and payment was made through cheques,
impugned purchases could not be disallowed. Section 37(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - Business expenditure -
Allowability of (Bogus purchase) - Certain portion of purchases
made by assessee was disallowed - Commissioner (Appeals) found
that entire disallowance was based on third party information
gathered by Investigation Wing of Department, which had not been
independently subjected to further verification by Assessing Officer
and he had not provided copy of such statements to appellant, 36 thus, denying opportunity of cross examination to appellant, who on
other hand, had prima facie discharged initial burden of
substantiating purchases through various documentation including
purchase bills, transportation bills, confirmed copy of accounts and
fact of payment through cheques, VAT Registration of sellers and
their Income-tax Return -He held that purchases made by appellant
was acceptable and disallowance was to be deleted - Tribunal
dismissed revenue's appeal - High Court affirmed judgments of
Commissioner (Appeals) and Tribunal being concurrent factual
findings - Whether no substantial question of law arose from
impugned order of Tribunal - Held, yes [Para 4] [In favour of
assessee]. Commissioner of Income Tax-7, New Delhi v. Odeon Builders (P .) Ltd.
[2019] 110 taxmann.com 64 (SC) (x) Section 69C of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - Unexplained
expenditure - Assessment year 1996-97 - Assessee was manufacturer
of tractor lights - For relevant assessment year, it claimed deduction
of payments made to various parties on account of purchase of raw
materials - Assessing Officer doubted genuineness of transactions
and disallowed assessee's claim in respect of some of parties - On
appeal, Commissioner (Appeals) upheld order of Assessing Officer -
On second appeal, Tribunal, inter alia, noticed that all payments
were made to said parties by account-payee cheques only; that
bank statements of said parties showed that cheques issued by
assessee had been duly received by those parties in their bank
accounts; and that bank accounts of said parties also showed that
they were small dealers/job workers and were dealing mainly with
assessee - On basis of said findings, Tribunal believed in genuineness
of transactions and allowed assessee's claim - Whether since finding
of fact arrived at by Tribunal was plausible and based on evidence,
it needed no interference - Held, yes. Commissioner of Income-tax v.Hi Lux Automotive (P.) Ltd [2009] 183
Taxman 260 (Delhi) (xi) Assessment year 2004-05 - During relevant assessment year,
assessee had purchased sand from 'S' on different dates - Assessing
Officer issued notice to 'S' under section 133(6) which returned back
with remarks 'not known' - Assessing Officer, thus, disallowed
assessee's claim on ground that it had failed to file confirmation from
concerned person in support of its purchases - It was seen from
records that after issuing notice to 'S', 37 Assessing Officer did not take any steps to procure his presence - On
other hand, assessee had filed a certificate from bank indicating
fact that cheques issued by it in favour of 'S' were duly cleared -
Whether on facts, it could be concluded that assessee had
received goods from 'S' and credit balance in shape of sundry credit
appearing in books of account was not unaccounted money of
assessee - Held, yes - Whether, therefore, impugned addition made
by Assessing Officer was to be deleted - Held, yes
Cheil India (P.) Ltd. v .Income-tax Officer, Word 3(3), New Delhi
[2016] 68 taxmann.com 410 (Delhi - Trib.) (xiv) Where purchases made by assessee-trader were duly
supported by bills and payments were made by account payee
cheque, seller also confirmed transaction and there was no
evidence to show that amount was recycled back to assessee,
Assessing Officer was not justified in treating said purchases as bogus
under section 69C : SLP dismissed. (xvi) In absence of any direct evidence showing non - genuineness
of purchases, addition made on account of bogus purchases by
merely relying on statements of third parties recorded under survey
proceedings, was not sustainable. Cannon Industries (P.) Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax [2015] 59 taxmann.com 65 (Mumbai - Trib.)
5.6.2. On careful perusal of the impugned order, it is but obvious that
the decision of the AO is not based only upon the finding of third
parties. It is matter of record that the AO had, on his own,
conducted enquiries, the finding of which was corroborated by the
findings of the other investigation agencies. Similarly, the decision
that the above mentioned transactions are bogus purchases is not
merely based upon statement of one person. Therefore the case
laws relied upon by the appellant where it was decided that no
addition on account of bogus purchases is warranted are
distinguishable. 5.6.3. The next common argument made by the assessee relates to
the manner in which the addition/disallowances are to be made
consequent to the finding that purchases are bogus. The argument
of the appellant can best be appreciated from para 14 of his
submission, which reads as follows: 5.6.4. In his submission the appellant has also relied upon some of
the authorities who have decided the manner in which the
disallowances or additions may be made in event of finding of
bogus purchases, where the sale have not been doubted. Income-tax Officer 24(1)(4) v. Deepak Khusaldas Mehta [2017] 83
taxmann.com 63 (Mumbai - Trib.)
(xvii) Factum of bogus purchase established - Sales accepted, no
reason to reject purchases - Purchase cannot be rejected without
disturbing the sales - CIT(A) added 10% of purchase amount - ITAT -
Tax only on the basis of difference in the GP rates - Assessee cannot
be punished since sale price is accepted by the revenue Order of
ITAT upheld. PCIT Vs. M/s Mohommad Haji Adam & Co. [ITA No. 1004
of 2016] High Court of Bombay-" Under the above stated facts which is identical to the present lis, the
following was decided. 5.6.6. Similar view was also taken by Hon'ble Bombay High Court, in
the recent case, of Pr. CIT vs. Vishwashakti Construction (2023) 454
ITR 448 (Bom)(HC), decided on 7th October 2023, it was held that,
even if the assessee failed to produce parties for verification, the
Assessing Officer could not have treated entire purchases as bogus
purchases; only the profit element embedded in such purchases to
be considered for addition. The Calcutta high Court in the case of Principal Commissioner Of Income Tax vs M/S. Bardhaman
Dharmaraj Paper Mill ITAT/207/2023 decided on 3 January, 2024 was
inter alia was concerned with adjudication of the issue and it came
to similar finding- In deciding so the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta also referred to
the finding of N. K. Proteins Ltd. vs. DCIT . And found that in the given
facts the above decision is not in variance with the decision of N. K.
Proteins. Under similar fact situation in the case of Simit P. Sheth
[2013] 38 taxmann.com 385 (Gujarat), in which the assessee was
engaged in business of trading in steel on wholesale basis. The
Assessing Officer having found that some of alleged suppliers of
steel to assessee had not supplied steel to assessee but had only
provided sale bills, held that purchases made from said parties were
bogus. He, accordingly, added entire amount of purchases to gross
profit of assessee. The Commissioner (Appeals) having found that
assessee had indeed made purchases, though not from named
parties but other parties from grey market, sustained addition to
extent of 30 per cent of purchase cost as probable profit of
assessee. The Tribunal however, sustained addition to extent of 12.5
per cent. The High Court held that since purchases were not bogus
but were made from parties other than those mentioned in books of
account, only profit element embedded in such purchases could be
added to assessee's income. Accordingly, the High Court sustained
the addition to the extent of 12.5% of the bogus purchases. In the
case of Pooja Paper Trading Co (P.) Ltd. 104 taxmann.com 95
(Bombay), the assessee, trading in paper and paper products,
found indulging in hawala business without actual transaction. The
AO disallowed entire purchases of Rs.4.17 Crores under Section 69C .
The CIT(A) applied GP rate of 3.67% on bogus purchases, whereas
the Tribunal enhanced the disallowance to 12.5% of bogus
purchases. 5.6.7. The AO has, in the impugned order discussed as to how the
assessee has not maintained Stock register, along with other
reasons, based upon this finding he has treated the purchases
made from the above mentioned paper parties as Bogus Purchase.
The AO has also successfully demonstrated that GP in the
assessment year is low as compared to immediately preceding
years. However he has neither questioned the figure of Sale
recorded by the Appellant nor he has disturbed the valuation of
Stock at the end of the year as reflected in the Financial Account.
The AO despite having all the above information has not rejected
the books of account. If the purchases are entirely fictitious, then
addition of entire expenses shown as purchases may be added only
after successfully demonstrating as to what will be it's impact on the 43 reported sale of the closing stock. This AO has not given any finding
 to this effect. Therefore, following the decision of more recent
 authorities, discussed above, and considering the low GP rate
 reported by the assessee in the present year, I consider it fair to
 disallow 12.5% of the Value of bogus Purchase as GP rate addition.
 In terms of the discussion above disallowance is being restricted to
 12.5% of Rs.4,73,64,687/-, (which is Rs.63,84,522/- disallowed as bogus
 purchase from GSTC and Rs.4,11,60,437/- disallowed as bogus
 purchase from 5 different parties) The addition of Rs.59,20,585/- is
 being upheld. As a result the ground no 3 and 4 are partly allowed.
 5.7. Ground No. 5. 5.7.1. In this ground, the appellant has claimed that the impugned
 order is bad in law as principle of natural justice were grossly
 violated. 5.7.2. The submission filed by the appellant has carefully been
 perused. It is not the case of the appellant that he was not given
 sufficient opportunity to reply to the notices issued by the
 department. It is also not the case of the appellant that sufficient
 number of notices were not issued to him. The violation of the
 natural justice is being argued by the appellant only on account of
 the fact that the appellant was not offered an opportunity to cross
 examine Mr. RPS who was prop. of GSTC. In my opinion, this
 argument has already been dealt by me in para 5.4.9 of this order.
 More specifically the ratio of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Chairman,
 SBI v. M.J. James [Civil Appeal No. 8223 of 2009, dated 16-11-2021] is
 being referred to dismiss this ground of appeal. 6. In the result, the appeal is partly allowed. 5. Against the order of the Ld. CIT(A) the assessee preferred the
appeal before the Tribunal. 6. During the course of the hearing, the learned counsel for the
assessee argued each ground individually. 7. Regarding Ground No. 1 Ld. Counsel for the Assessee point wise
argued that - A. Suo-moto reliance on the information flagged on the insight
portal. (i) The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the Assessing
Officer has placed suo-moto and blanket reliance on the
information flagged on the insight portal with respect to transactions
carried out with one Shri Rahul Pratap Singh (Prop Gauri Shankar
Trading Co). (ii) Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the Assessing
Officer has merely relied on the information disseminated on the
Insight Portal without conducting any enquiry with respect thereto or
even analyzing the same to determine its link and applicability to the
Appellant Company. The mere receipt of information from the
Investigation Wing/GST Department has led to a conclusion as to
income having escaped assessment without establishing or even
attempting to establish any link between the said information and
the failure of income having escaped assessment in the case of the
Appellant Company. B. Notice u/s 148 issued by the jurisdictional Assessing Officer and
assessment framed by the National Faceless Assessment Centre. (i). Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that Notice under section
148A(b) of the Act dated 21.03.2023 has been issued by the
Jurisdictional Assessing Officer which is in contravention with the 45 provisions of section 151A of the Act. The scheme of section 151A is
clear and categorical that notice under Section 148 of the Act shall
be issued through "automated allocation" and in a faceless manner.
The term "automated allocation" is defined to mean random
allocation of cases to Assessing Officers which by itself precludes the
jurisdictional Assessing Officer. (ii). Reference is made to the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High
Court in Hexaware Technologies Ltd. vs. ACIT [(2024) 464 ITR
430(Mumbai)] wherein the relevant observations of the Court are as
follows: The Scheme is categoric as stated aforesaid that the notice under Section 148 of the Act
 shall be issued through automated allocation and in a faceless manner. The Scheme clearly
 provides that the notice under Section 148 of the Act is required to be issued by NFAC and
 not the JAO" 8. Regarding Ground No. 2 Ld. Counsel for the Assessee argued
that restricting the addition on account of purchases to Rs.
59,20,585/- (being 12.50% of the purchases of Rs. 63,84,522/- made
from M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co and Rs. 4,11,60,437/- from the five
parties viz. M/s Tejinder Fabricators (Prop Gaurav Dhir) -Rs. 25,93,105/-
; M/s Radhika Enterprises (Prop Rahul Tiwari) Rs. 15,03,504/-; M/s Garg
Trading Co (Prop Raj Kumar) Rs. 1,73,18,821/-; M/s Aryan International - Delhi (Prop) Aditya Pupreja) Rs. 5,46,167/- and M/s Akriti Industries
(Prop Sanjeev Kumar) - Rs. 1,91,98,840/- as being allegedly bogus. A. Addition on account of Purchases from M/s Gauri Shankar
Trading Co. (i) Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the assessee
Company engaged in the business of manufacture of steel products
had filed its Return of income for A/Y 2019-20 on 30.10.2019 declaring 47 loss of Rs. 1,80,272/-under normal provisions and an income of Rs.
62,98,757/- as per the provisions of Section 115JBof the Act. (ii) Ld. Counsel for the Assessee the Assessing Officer was in receipt
of information from the Insight Portal regarding purchase
transactions of Rs. 63,84,522/- with M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co, (a
Proprietorship concern of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh) which is, allegedly,
a fraud company with no actual business and was also, allegedly,
involved in fake ITC billing. (iii) It was further submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee that
As per the Assessing Officer summons were issued u/s 131 (1 A) of the
Act to Shri Rahul Pratap Singh, Prop of Gauri Shankar Trading Co,. In
his statement recorded on oath Sh. Rahul Pratap Singh, allegedly,
stated that - (a) neither him nor any of his/her family members are associated
with Gauri Shankar Trading Co.; (b) he has no idea about who created his entity and this company
is totally fake; (c) the mobile number and e-mail id that was used to create to
GST No. for M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co. was never used by him. (iv) On the basis of the said information, a notice u/s 148A(b) of the
Act was issued by the Assessing Officer on 21.03.2023. In response to 48 the same, the Appellant Company filed a reply dated 28.03.2023.
Being not satisfied with the reply the Assessing Officer passed an
order dated 31.03.2023 u/s 148A(d) of the Act after obtaining prior
approval of the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax, Ludhiana
and issued notice u/s 148 . (v) In response to the notice u/s 148 , the Appellant Company filed
a return of income on 26.04.2023declaring income of Rs. 62,98,757/-
as per the provisions of section 115JB of the Act. (vi) The (re)assessment proceedings were subsequently taken up
and notices u/s 143(2) and 142(1) alongwith questionnaires were
issued to the Appellant Company from time to time which were
responded to, and requisite information/details furnished (vii) The Appellant Company had purchased iron-scrap (which
forms an integral part of its manufacturing process) of Rs. 63,84,522/-
from M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co (PAN : DDMPS9057P), a
Proprietary concern of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh during the year ended
March 31, 2019. (viii) During the course of assessment proceedings, notice u/s 133(6) notice was also issued to Shri Rahul Pratap Singh (PAN DDMPS9057P)
and the matter was also referred to the Verification Unit. On the basis
of the same, the fact that the GST number of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh
has been cancelled and some other allegedly adverse findings, the 49 Assessing Officer issued a show cause notice dated 26.12.2023asking
the Appellant Company to show cause as to why a proposed
variation of Rs. 74,82,000/- with regard to purchases from the said
party be not made. (ix) The main thrust and substance of the arguments of the
Assessee Company are as follows:- The reflection of the said amount in GSTR -2A (which is auto-
generated without any manual intervention) by itself sufficient
credible evidence of the movement and receipt of goods (i.e.
purchases) whereby the genuineness of the transaction and
eligibility of the Appellant Company to claim input tax credit
become evident. (f) Accordingly, merely on the basis of the statement of an
external party it cannot be said that the details in GSTR-2A are
wrong. (g) In view of the above, since the purchase and subsequent
receipt of goods is evidenced by E-Way Bills, goods has been
transported through vehicle mentioned inthe E-way bill, production
has been made against the goods purchased (which are a
necessary ingredient of its production process) and sale duly
reflected in the accounts merely on the basis of statement of Shri
Rahul Pratap Singh it cannot be concluded that all such evidence
cannot be relied upon. (h) The statement of Shri Rahul Partap Singh proprietor of Gauri
Shankar TradingCo. recorded on oath subsequent to summons
issued u/s 131 (1 A), that neither himnor any of his family member are
associated with Gauri Shankar Trading Co and has,allegedly, even
denied to have created the said entity are merely evasive
anddiversionary tactics for getting himself free from his acts and the
affairs of GauriShanking Trading Co. The fact remains that M/s Gauri
Shankar Trading Co. exists, itsbank account is being operated and
ITR and GST Return are being filed. This makes
it clear that either Shri Rahul Partap Singh or some person acting on
his behalf isresponsible for the said transactions without which it is
impossible to comprehend themanifestation of so many evidences
to prove the existence of M/s Gauri ShankarTrading Co. (i) With regard to the said concern having in F/Y 2018-19 reported
total sales ofRs. 2,31,83,49,973/-, the same are a matter of record
and there is no doubt as to theirauthenticity and correctness. (j) With regard to the Mobile number and e-mail id that was used to
create GST Number for M/s Gauri Shankar Trading Co., allegedly,
being never used by him, the Appellant Company is unable to
comment since his mobile number and e-mail id is not mentioned in
the bill. 9. Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the replies dated
28.03.2023 and 29.11.2023 filed during both the proceedings u/s
148A and assessment proceedings u/s 143(3) alongwith exhaustive
documentary evidence and the reply dt. 11.01.2024 to the show
cause notice were not found acceptable by the Assessing Officer
resulting in the impugned addition. 10. The main thrust of the arguments of the Assessing Officer are as
follows: - 11. The Assessing Officer has not been able to controvert the
above argument furnished on behalf of the Appellant Company or
to disprove the evidences furnished or to provide any evidence
which could show that the evidence on which the Appellant
Company has relied arewrong or fraudulent. The various evidences
which have been furnished on behalf of the Appellant Company to
establish that purchase is genuine has not been denied/rebutted by
the Department except for the unilateral reliance on the statement 55 of a supplier of which the evidentiary value is itself subject to
question in the absence of an opportunity for cross-examination. 12. The blanket, yet unwholesome, reliance solely on the statement
of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh pales into insignificance in the light of the
plethora of evidences and fact including the bills issued by the
supplier, delivery made through transport, e-way bill generated and
payment made through banking channels in his bank account.
Moreover, the basic documents available with the Appellant
Company and filed before the Assessing Officer viz. Purchase Bill,
Transport Bill, Payment through Banking Channel, confirmation of
supply by way of uploading GSTR-1 by the supplier have not been
rebutted by the Department. 13. The balance of equity heavily favours the Appellant Company
given the weight, nature and authenticity of the documents
furnished when viewed against the evidence of Shri Rahul Pratap
Singh which is one sided given the lack of opportunity for cross-
examination provided to the Appellant Company. B. Addition of Rs. 4,11,60,437/- by holding that the purchases made
from the following five parties are bogus: - being the amount of purchases from the said parties. (iii) As per the contents of the assessment order it appears that the
matter was also referred to the Verification Unit which apparently
carried out physical verification and found or that these parties did
not exist. In addition, the Assessing Officer has also returned a finding 57 that there is no response from some parties to the notice issued u/s
133(6) or that the notice could not be served on them or that they
could not be found at the given address. (iv) In view of the same the Assessing Officer vide show cause
notice dated 26.12.2023 asked the Appellant Company to show
cause as to why the amount of Rs. 4,78,86,229/- should be disallowed
and added to the total income on account of, alleged, non-
genuine purchases from the said party. (v) In response thereto exhaustive replies were filed enumerating
the stand of the Appellant Company with respect to the said issue of
purchases from the said five parties enumerated as follows: - (vii). The Assessing Officer has relied upon certain arguments in
favour of the aforesaid addition as follows: - (iv) Non-production of confirmation from parties for
 verification. (v) Fall in the Net Profit /Gross Profit, both absolutely and in
 terms of rates, in spiteof sales having increased. (viii) The fact that major business was conducted only by three
transporters was the Appellant Company's thought-out decision and
to question the same is beyond the remit of the Assessing Officer and
does not impact the determination of taxable income in any
manner. Further, the perceived, minor at best, irregularities therein
do not in any manner serve to strike at the root of the factum of the
transaction or their authenticity. (ix) As regards the alleged failure to furnish documentary evidence
either justifying the purchases or as required by notice u/s 142(1) dated 21.09.2023 it is submitted that while exhaustive
documentation was submitted the questionnaire dated 21.09.2023
was also responded to almost in the entirety, the lapses being only
peripheral and, it may be submitted with respect, non-consequential
in the overall scenario and viewed in terms of the exhaustive
documentation filed. (x) In the light thereof while the Appellant Company been diligent
and of course serious inits efforts it may be submitted that there has 60 been an abject failure on behalf of the Assessing Officer in
examining and verifying the documentary evidence furnished
before him. (xi) It may be mentioned here that responding to income tax
notices (such as a notice u/s 133(6) ) or non-existence at a particular
address all factors over which the Appellant Company does not
have any control, whereby the said failures/ irregularities/
inconsistencies cannot be festooned to enlarge the onus cast on it
and resultantly latch it with some kind of far-reaching adverse
conclusions with potentially serious ramifications. (xii) The attempt to link the increase in sales with corresponding
increases in NP/GP rates ignores the fact of any business operating in
a dynamic scenario wherein a large basket of variables (some of
which has no or may even notional control) determine the ultimate
outcome. In such a situation where economic, political, global,
industry, market and a host of other factors guide its operations and
their ultimate size and scale and ultimate profits, to assume a certain
empirical straight jacketed relationship between sales and
profitability would amount to grossly underestimating the dynamics
of the situation and accordingly the same cannot be relied upon as
a determining factor to arrive at some kind of an adverse
decision/conclusion. (xiii) Exhaustive documentary evidence was filed including that
generated digitally from the online portal and also from the external
sources, which attests to the fact of purchases, subsequent receipt
of goods in the Appellant Company's premises, they being recorded
in the stock register and ultimate use, as and when required, in the
production process. The Assessing Officer has not arrived at a
specific finding disputing the same (xiv) The Assessing Officer has without rejecting the books of
accounts or disturbing the trading results and without questioning
the authenticity of sales, has rather illogically and in a manner largely
unfair to the Appellant Company proceeded to make an addition
for the amount of purchases only which has resulted in a double
addition. The goods purchased, which have been disputed here
have been used in the production process whereby ultimately, they
get embedded in the income side as sales. The addition per -se, of
purchases has resulted in an extreme injustice to the Appellant
Company since the corresponding income side retains its status ab
initio. C. CONCLUSION 1. The Commissioner of Income (Appeals) vide order dated
10.05.2024 has restricted the addition to Rs. 59,20,585/- being 12.5%
of Rs. 4,73,64,687/-, the total addition on account of purchases
made from the six parties viz. 2. The above discussion and the record makes it clear that there is
no ground to treat the purchases as bogus. Moreover, the Assessing
Officer has not rejected the books of accounts, no found fault with
the stock/records/quantitative tally nor questioned either the sales or
the value of closing stock. As such even the restriction of
disallowances to 12.5% of purchases from the said parties is not
called Jorjand no part of the entire expenditure is disallowable. 3. In this connection reliance is placed on the following decision
of the Hon'ble Chandigarh Bench. The facts of this case fit like hands
& gloves to the facts of the present case. (a)Decision of Hon'ble Bench in the case of Prime Steel Industries
 (P) Ltd vs DCIT [order dated 20.09.2024 in ITA Nos. 275/Chd/2024
 and 500/Chd/2024] wherein on almost identical facts the entire
 addition on account of bogus purchases has been deleted by
 the Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. As in the instant
 case , in that case also exhaustive documentation such as
 confirmation of the party, its ledger account, relevant extract of
 the Bank statement invoices, e-way bills etc. were duly filed by
 the Appellant Company in support of each and every doubtful
 party. Moreover, the Assessing Officer had also rejected the
 Appellant Company's books, which is not the situation in the
 given case. The Assessing Officer made an addition of 12.5% of
 the doubtful purchases which were reduced to 5.94% by the 63 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) who has also overturned
 the decision of the Assessing Officer to reject the books of
 accounts and has infact accepted the same. (b)The Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal vide the impugned
 order has deleted the entire addition by alluding to the fact
 that there has been no doubt as regards the manufacturing of
 goods out of the said purchases and the books of accounts
 have not been rejected. Reliance is placed on the said order as
 well as the exhaustive documentation filed in support of the
 disputed/doubtful purchases from the said six parties. Denial of opportunity of cross-examination 1. A perusal of the assessment order and history of the assessment
proceedings would show that various references have been made
and reliance placed on the statement of Shri Rahul Pratap Singh
recorded by different wings of the Department. The conclusion
drawn by the Assessing Officer relies heavily on the said statement
which has been unilaterally and critically, but unjustifiedly used to
the prejudice of and to the detriment of the Appellant Company. 2. The said action of the Assessing Officer is decidedly and most
crucially is against the basis canons of tax administration in as much 64 was not provided with an opportunity for cross-examination in spite
of specific requests being made

 Keeping in view the detailed submissions made above and also
the facts & circumstances of the case, it is prayed that the revenue's
appeal deserves to be dismissed and as far as the assessee's appeal
is concerned there is no justification on part of Ld. CIT(A) to uphold
the impugned disallowance @12.5% of the value of purchases &
deserves to be deleted. 14. Per contra the Ld. DR relied on the orders of the lower
authorities. 15. We have heard the rival contentions of both parties, examined
the material available on record, and considered the findings of the
Ld. CIT(A) in the appellate order. We have also taken into account
the arguments and written submissions filed by the Ld. Counsel for
the assessee during the proceedings before us, as well as the
submissions made by the Ld. DR in the Revenue's cross appeal. Since
both appeals are interrelated, we are deciding them together. 15.1 We find that the case of the AO / Revenue is based on the
claim that the purchases made from five parties namely, M/s
Tejinder Fabricators (Prop. Gaurav Dhir), M/s Radhika Enterprises
(Prop. Rahul Tiwari), M/s Garg Trading Co. (Prop. Raj Kumar), M/s
Aryan International, Delhi (Prop. Aditya Pupreja), and M/s Akriti
Industries (Prop. Sanjeev Kumar)were not genuine. Therefore, the AO 65 added the entire purchase amount to the assessee's income.
However, at the same time, the AO / Revenue failed to disallow the
sales corresponding to these purchases. 15.2 In fact, the lower authorities have not brought any evidence on
record to show that the opening balance of the assessee was
incorrect or that the corresponding sales and production made from
purchases from the allegedly bogus parties were disallowed or
rejected.  The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee has brought on record all the
 details of copy of the account of such party in the books of the
 appellant company reflecting purchase of different date and
 payment thereof through banking channel.  Copy of Stock Register showing goods received.
 Copy of production register showing use of goods purchased for
 production
 Copy of bills raised by the various parties
 Copy of E-way bills
 Copy of Transporters bills in support of movement of goods so
 purchased
 Copy of GSTR 2A showing purchase made from various parties.
 Copy of Bank Statement showing the payment made to various
 parties. 15.3 Revenue has not brought on record anything to rebut these
documents brought on record by the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee. In 66 fact, without rejecting the purchases and the corresponding sales /
purchases made from the allegedly bogus parties, it is difficult for the
Revenue to establish that such purchases were not genuine. The Coordinate Bench of the ITAT, Chandigarh, in the case of Prime Steel Industries (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT [order dated 20.09.2024 in ITA
Nos. 275/Chd/2024 and 500/Chd/2024], under identical facts,
deleted the additions made by the lower authorities. In that case as
well, the additions were made on account of bogus purchases
without rejecting the corresponding sales. 15.4 Even if, for the sake of argument, the Revenue's position is
accepted that the purchases were made from bogus parties then
the question arises as to how the Revenue justifies the production
and sales arising from such allegedly bogus purchases. In the present
case, the Revenue has not provided any material to rebut the
details filed by the assessee. Moreover, there is no evidence to show
that the production from these purchases was not accepted by the
Assessing Officer or the CIT. The Revenue has also not disputed the
sales of goods made from the allegedly bogus purchases. Therefore,
it is difficult to accept the Revenue's arguments in this matter.
Accordingly, the assessee's appeal on this issue is allowed. 16. In the result, appeal of the Assessee is allowed. 17. Now coming to the Cross Appeal filed by the Revenue wherein
following grounds have been raised: 5, It is prayed that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) may be set aside and the order of
 AO may be restored. 6, That the appellant craves to add or amend any ground of appeal before it is
 finally disposed of.. 18. During the proceedings before us, the Ld. DR vehemently
argued that once the verification unit has confirmed the purchases
from the five parties mentioned above were bogus, as these parties
did not exist, the action of the learned CIT(A) in restricting the
addition to only 12.5% of the value of such bogus purchases i.e., Rs.
4,11,60,437/- was not logical. The Ld. DR also heavily relied on the
decision of the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case of Kaveri
Rice Mills (157 Taxman 376), wherein it was held that once it is proved
beyond doubt that the purchases are bogus, the entire amount of
such purchases is to be disallowed 68 19. Since the issue of bogus purchases on which the CIT(A)
sustained an addition of 12.5% and against which the Revenue has
filed an appeal has already been addressed, our findings on the
assessee's purchases will apply to this matter as well. Accordingly,
the confirmation of the 12.5% addition by the learned CIT(A) is not
acceptable. Therefore, both the entire addition made by the
Assessing Officer (AO) and the 12.5% addition sustained by the
CIT(A) in respect of the alleged bogus purchases are hereby
deleted. 20. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed and the Cross
appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 14/05/2025. आदे शकी ितिलिप अ ेिषत/ Copy of the order forwarded to :