By this application the applicant seeks leave of this Court to adduce
additional evidence. The contention of learned counsel for the Applicant is CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 2 of 70 that at the time of leading defence evidence, counsel for the Appellant only
examined three witnesses including the Appellant. Though the Appellant
provided all the documents to the learned counsel for leading defence
evidence regarding proof of existence of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation
at 3499, Chawri Bazar, Delhi-06, however the Appellant was advised by Shri
Rajesh Kohli that the said documents were not required to be adduced since
the same would not affect the outcome of the trial. Further, the Appellant
was made to believe that the prosecution evidence was insufficient and that
adducing evidence to prove existence of the firm would be a futile exercise.
The Appellant following the advice proceeded accordingly and did not lead
further defence evidence to prove that the firm M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation was not a non-existent and fictitious firm. By the impugned
judgment the learned Trial Court has invoked Section 106 Evidence Act.
Since the learned Trial Court has invoked Section 106 Evidence Act, the
Appellant has been prejudiced and thus this Court should permit adducing of
additional evidence so as to vindicate the innocence of the Appellant.
Reliance is placed on Zahira Habuballa Sheikh Vs. State of Gujarat ( 2004) 4
SCC 158 and Ashok Tshering Bhutia Vs. State of Sikkim (2011) 4 SCC 402.
The Appellant has annexed documents in support of the application which he
seeks to adduce as additional evidence. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that the documents now sought
to be adduced in the additional evidence are of year 2001onwards whereas
the enquiry started in the year 1999. The Appellant even now has not been
able to produce any document in the name of Supreme Trading Corporation CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 3 of 70 at the given address except one which is on page 52 of the application dated
20th December, 2002 which is a self-generated document. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. Section 391 Cr.P.C.
permits leading of additional evidence at the Appellate stage in case non-
adducing thereof results in failure of justice. However said power has to be
used sparingly and only in exceptional suitable cases, where the Court is
satisfied that directing additional evidence would serve the interest of justice.
Further the additional evidence cannot be permitted to be adduced at the
stage of appeal to fill in the lacunaes in the prosecution case or the defence
case. The averment of the applicant is not that despite due diligence he was
not in possession of the documents. The applicant was in possession of the
documents, however on the advice of Rajesh Kumar Kohli the co-accused he
did not exhibit these documents. Whether the documents were required to be
produced in defence or not ought to have been the decision of the Appellant
and his counsel and there is no averment in the application on affidavit that
the Appellant was advised by his counsel not to lead/ exhibit the relevant
documents in defence, especially when the applicant entered as a defence
witness in the witness box. Further the documents i.e. the bills of the
telephones at 2nd Floor, 3499 Chawri Bazar are in the name of Shri S.P.
Maheshwari and other documents are not of the period in question but
subsequent thereto and would have been thus of no relevance even if
permitted to be adduced. The legal position for adducing additional
evidence before the Appellate Court under Section 391 Cr.P.C. has been
summarized by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ashok Tshering Bhutia Vs.
State of Sikkim (2011) 4 SCC 402. ―28. Additional evidence at the appellate stage is permissible, in
 case of a failure of justice. However, such power must be
 exercised sparingly and only in exceptional suitable cases
 where the court is satisfied that directing additional evidence
 would serve the interests of justice. It would depend upon the
 facts and circumstances of an individual case as to whether such
 permission should be granted having due regard to the concepts
 of fair play, justice and the well-being of society. Such an
 application for taking additional evidence must be decided
 objectively, just to cure the irregularity. 29. The primary object of the provisions of Section 391 CrPC is
 the prevention of a guilty man's escape through some careless
 or ignorant action on part of the prosecution before the court or
 for vindication of an innocent person wrongfully accused,
 where the court omitted to record the circumstances essential to
 elucidation of truth. Generally, it should be invoked when
 formal proof for the prosecution is necessary. [ Vide Rajeswar
 Prasad Misra v. State of W.B. [AIR 1965 SC 1887 : (1965) 2
 Cri LJ 817] , Ratilal Bhanji Mithani v. State of Maharashtra
 [(1971) 1 SCC 523 : 1971 SCC (Cri) 231 : AIR 1971 SC 1630]
 , Rambhau v. State of Maharashtra [(2001) 4 SCC 759 : 2001
 SCC (Cri) 812 : AIR 2001 SC 2120] , Anil Sharma v. State of
 Jharkhand [(2004) 5 SCC 679 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 1706 : AIR
 2004 SC 2294] , Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat [(2004) 4 SCC 158 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 999] and Manu Sharma v.
 State (NCT of Delhi) [(2010) 6 SCC 1 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri)
 1385 : AIR 2010 SC 2352] .] 30. This Court in State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal
 [(1987) 2 SCC 364 : 1987 SCC (Cri) 364 : AIR 1987 SC 1321]
 dealing with the issue held as under: (SCC pp. 370-71, para 5)
 ―5. ... To deny the opportunity to remove the formal defect
 was to abort a case against an alleged economic offender. Ends
 of justice are not satisfied only when the accused in a criminal
 case is acquitted. The community acting through the State and
 the Public Prosecutor is also entitled to justice. The cause of the
 community deserves equal treatment at the hands of the court in
 the discharge of its judicial functions. The community or the CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 5 of 70 State is not a persona non grata whose cause may be treated
 with disdain. The entire community is aggrieved if the
 economic offenders who ruin the economy of the State are not
 brought to book. A murder may be committed in the heat of the
 moment upon passions being aroused. An economic offence is
 committed with cool calculation and deliberate design with an
 eye on personal profit regardless of the consequence to the
 community. A disregard for the interest of the community can
 be manifested only at the cost of forfeiting the trust and faith of
 the community in the system to administer justice in an even-
 handed manner without fear of criticism from the quarters
 which view white-collar crimes with a permissive eye
 unmindful of the damage done to the national economy and
 national interest.‖ 31. In Rambhau [(2001) 4 SCC 759 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 812 : AIR
 2001 SC 2120] , a larger Bench of this Court held as under: 32. In view of the above, the law on the point can be
 summarised to the effect that additional evidence can be taken
 at the appellate stage in exceptional circumstances, to remove
 an irregularity, where the circumstances so warrant in public
 interest. Generally, such power is exercised to have formal
 proof of the documents, etc. just to meet the ends of justice. However, the provisions of Section 391 CrPC cannot be
 pressed into service in order to fill up lacunae in the prosecution
 case.‖

 I find no merit in the application. The same is dismissed. CRL.A. 1455/2012 & Crl.M.B. 2246/2012
CRL.A. 60/2013 & Crl.M.B. 91/2013
CRL.A. 99/2013 & Crl.M.B. 138/2013
CRL.A. 100/2013 & Crl.M.B. 139/2013
CRL.A. 145/2013 & Crl.M.B. 213/2013 1. The present appeals arise out of a common impugned judgment dated
20th November, 2012 whereby the Appellants have been convicted for
offences punishable under Section 120B read with Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 (in short the PC Act ). In addition to the above-
mentioned provisions, Appellants Rajesh Kumar Kohli and Vinod Kumar
Bhutani have been convicted for substantive offence under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act, Appellants Arvind Kumar Sharma
and Kunwar Vijay Juneja for offence punishable under Section 468 IPC and
Appellant Anil Maheshwari for offences punishable under Section 420 and 471 IPC. Vide the impugned order on sentence dated 7th December, 2012
the Appellants have been awarded three years rigorous imprisonment and
fine of Rs. 5000/- and in default of payment of fine, one month simple
imprisonment each for offence punishable under Section 120B IPC.
Appellant Anil Maheshwari has in addition been awarded rigorous
imprisonment of four years and a fine of Rs. 5 lakh and in default of
payment of fine one year simple imprisonment for offence punishable under CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 7 of 70 Section 420 IPC and rigorous imprisonment for three years, six months and a
fine of Rs. 10,000/- and in default of payment of payment of fine two months
simple imprisonment for offence punishable under Section 471 IPC.
Appellants Arvind Kumar Sharma and Kunwar Vijay Juneja have been in
addition awarded rigorous imprisonment for three years and six months and
a fine of Rs. 10,000/- each and in default to undergo two months simple
imprisonment for offence punishable under Section 468 IPC. Appellants
Rajesh Kumar Kohli and Vinod Kumar Bhutani have been sentenced to
undergo four years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25,000/- and in
default to undergo three months simple imprisonment each for offence
punishable under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act.
Out of the fine amount fine imposed upon Appellant Anil Maheshwari, if
realized, a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs is directed to be paid to the National Insurance
Company Ltd., the complainant as compensation. 2. Learned counsel for the Appellant Anil Maheshwari submits that the
presumption under Section 20 of the PC Act is not available to the
prosecution as the Appellant and the co-accused have been convicted for a
conspiracy for offence under Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) PC
Act. Further the learned Trial Court erroneously invoked Section 106 Evidence Act. Section 106 Evidence Act is an exception to the general rule
of evidence under Section 101 Evidence Act. The duty to prove the facts
lies on the party who alleges. The evidence of two prosecution witnesses
examined by the prosecution does not prove beyond reasonable doubt that
the shop of the Appellant does not exist at 3499 Chawri Bazar. 1716 Gali
Piou Wali, Dariba is the residential address of the Appellant and is CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 8 of 70 mentioned in the bank account as the Appellant's firm is a proprietorship
firm. Merely because the address of the firm was not given, the firm does
not become non-existent. No efforts were made by the investigating agency
to check from the telephone number on the letter heads of the firm to verify
the existence of the shop at 3499, Chawri Bazar which would have been an
authentic proof. Merely two witnesses in the neighbourhood have been
examined which does not rule out the presence of the shop of the Appellant.
PW2 Lalit Chawla in his cross-examination has admitted that 3499 is a
building and there are number of other shops in the said building. He does
not know who are the other persons running different shops in the said
building. Further PW3 Sushant Rastogi says that he has no knowledge about
the shop. He is not even running a shop in the said building and is running a
short in a distant building. In view of the number of shops in each small
building in Chawri Bazar it cannot be expected of any businessmen to know
all the occupants of a building, what to say of those running business from a
different buildings. The prosecution having not proved the non-existence of
the firm M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation beyond reasonable doubt, the
learned Trial Court erred in shifting the onus on the Appellant under Section
106 Evidence Act. Further it is not the case of the prosecution that the goods
were not dispatched by the Appellant from Delhi. PW10 Trilok Nath Bhatia
In-charge, railway booking proved that goods were dispatched through
railway receipts to Rajan Enterprises, Ernakulam. The learned Trial Court
failed to deal with this issue. As a matter of fact the learned Trial Court has
not dealt with any of the issues and without giving the reasons, findings have
been arrived at. Once the tracer found the goods to have lost at Erode
Station, he was not required to go to Ernakulam and thus no fault can be CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 9 of 70 found in the tracer's report. The finding of the learned Trial Court that there
was a fake consignee and the tracer's report was false is based on no
evidence. Though the Appellant is not the author of the tracer's report, still
the Appellant is convicted substantively for offence under Section 420 IPC.
An essential ingredient of Section 468 IPC is an element of impersonation
i.e. the document is signed by the wrong person which is not the case herein.
Hence the provisions invoked are not attracted. Reliance is placed on Mohd.
Ibrahim Vs. State of Bihar (2009) 8 SCC 751. PW15 K.V.P. Namboothiri
does not prove that the consignee was a non-existent firm. He merely states
that he could not locate the address. Once there is loss of goods, there could
be no cheating in Insurance crediting money to the Appellant's account.
There is no evidence of meeting of minds and thus the Appellant cannot be
convicted for offence of conspiracy. 3. The learned Trial Court erroneously held that it was the duty of the
Appellant to prove consignee's existence. Relying on Shambu Nath Mehra
Vs. State of Ajmer (1956) SCR 1999 it is contended that Section 106 casts the
onus to prove the facts especially in the knowledge of the accused. The
prosecution cannot investigate half-heartedly, not prove the facts which it
could have proved and then shift the onus under Section 106 Evidence Act
on the accused. Further even if the onus is on the accused, the accused has
to prove not beyond reasonable doubt but by the preponderance of
probability and the same can be done even by cross-examining the
prosecution witnesses. PW1 in his testimony admits that he located M/s.
Supreme Trading Corporation at 1716 Gali Piou Wali, Dariba and thus the
finding that it was a non-existent firm is incorrect. The evidence of PW18 CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 10 of 70 Inspector B.S. Bhist CBI that he went and could not locate the address is
inconclusive. Telephone number appears on the invoice and all
communications. Since the bank account was operational, the firm cannot
be said to be non-existent. At best it could be said to be a case of incorrect
address. Further PW11 Rajesh Bali, the officer from the bank has stated that
the account in question was opened on 17.08.1990 and closed on 17th July,
1999. The account in question being in operation for more than 9 years, no
adverse inference of conduct of closing of the account after receiving the
insurance amount could be drawn by the prosecution. The three addresses
were not put to the Appellant under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and thus the same
cannot be used against him. Further the non-delivery certificate was also not
put under Section 313 Cr.P.C. to the Appellant [Kuldeep Singh Vs. State of
Delhi (2003) 12 SCC 528]. There is no specific finding as to which
communication of Rajan Enterprises is forged. The railway receipt is not
proved to be a forged document. There is no evidence on record as to what
was the fate of parcels sent from Delhi. Since there is no evidence that the
goods were duly delivered at Ernakulam, the finding of the false claim is
incorrect. As regards Rajan Enterprises, the only evidence is of PW15 which
is also a hearsay evidence. No postal officer has been examined. PW22 did
not go personally over there. The initial letter requesting for verification was
not placed on record, so what verification was sought is not known. 4. Learned counsel for the Appellant Rajesh Kumar Kohli submits that
though the learned Trial Court held that procedural manual was violated,
however no reasoning is given as to how and in which manner the manual
has been violated. PW14 Deepak Chaudhary, Assistant Administrative CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 11 of 70 Officer in his evidence has clearly stated that the prescribed procedure was
followed in passing the claim. PW5 K. Mahapatra, Chief Vigilance Officer
admits that no departmental enquiry was conducted against any public
servant in this case. There is no evidence on record to show that there was
any pecuniary advantage to the Appellant or to anyone else with whom he
shared. Further there is no evidence of conspiracy between the Appellant
and co-convict Anil Maheshwari. There is no trail of money from Anil
Maheshwari to the Appellant. There is no evidence of criminal intent at the
inception and the chain of circumstances proved is incomplete with most
vital links missing, coupled with the fact that there is no procedural lapse.
Thus, the Appellant could not have been convicted. M/s. Pooja International
was an approved agent of the National Insurance Company (NIC) and thus
no illegality much less any irregularity can be attributed in appointing the
said agency for preparing the tracer's report. The evidence of non-existence
of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation and M/s. Rajan Enterprises is very
sketchy. Further PW1 A.K. Seth the Vigilance Officer and the star witness
of the prosecution himself admitted in his cross-examination that he had not
passed or processed any claim so he was not technically equipped to
comment as to how a marine insurance claim was to be passed. PW1 further
admitted that he had no knowledge or practice of marine insurance or under-
writing of claim. Thus, PW1 is not an expert in the field and his testimony is
irrelevant. Even PW4 Anil Kumar Tiwari, Divisional Manager, NIC admits
that he had no history of working in claims relating to marine etc. Besides
PW1 and PW4, the third member of the Vigilance team was Shri A.L.
Gambhir, who has not been examined. The matter was technical in nature
and the prosecution failed to examine the technical expert in this regard. Even PW5 K. Mahapatra, Chief Vigilance Officer had no specific
qualification in insurance claims. The job of the Appellant was to pass
insurance claims. All the procedural requirements were duly followed and
on the said basis, the claim was passed. In case the Appellant would not
have passed the claim, he would have been proceeded against departmentally
for dereliction of duty. 5. It has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the firm Supreme
Trading Corporation was a non-existent firm. The search of the Appellant's
diary was conducted in which 1600 address/ names were found, however the
name of Anil Maheshwari nowhere figured. As regards the non-existence of
Rajan Enterprises is concerned, the report of PW15 KVP Namboothiri is that
since no specific door number or municipality number was given, the
address could not be traced. An incomplete address of Rajan Enterprises
does not prove that it does not exist. Further the complete address of Rajan
Enterprises was 68/4 Main Bazar, Opposite Post Office Ernakulam, however
no efforts were made to trace the same. Shri M. Shahjahan, the Inspector
CBI, who conducted the enquiry at Kochi was not examined as a witness. In
case Ex.PW20/2 was undelivered, it ought to have come back undelivered,
however no such docket or register was produced. Thus, neither the start
point nor the end point has been proved to be bogus. PW13 Hem Lata
Ahuja, who was the member of the Committee approving the claim, has not
been made an accused. She states that note was dictated to her, however the
claim note is a formatted note purely mathematical in nature and she could
not indicate which part of the note was dictated to her. PW13 was not even
examined by the Vigilance Department. PW13 Hem Lata signed the note CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 13 of 70 not as a stenographer but as a part of the Committee, however no action has
been taken against her. The reliance of the learned Trial Court on the
testimony of PW6 Vishveshwar Nath is wholly misconceived. Vishveshwar
Nath was an agent of the company and thus not an independent witness.
Further the testimony of Vishveshwar Nath is general in nature and has no
relevance to the facts of the present case. PW20 Jyoti Kumar admits that
vide seizure memo Ex.PW9/A, 28 documents were seized however there
were 26 documents on the file. Thus, the documents have been misplaced
by the investigating agency. No effort was made by the investigating officer
to check the authenticity of the bank statement of Appellant Anil
Maheshwari. The learned Trial Court returned a finding that the present case
has not been very effectively and professionally investigated by the
investigating officers, however it still proceeds to convict the Appellants.
There was no material on record to prove that any document was forged.
The letter dated 12th March, 1998 to M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation by
co-convict Vinod Kumar Bhutani erroneously sought for letter of authority
from the consignee in his favour duly attested by the railway authority at
item No.3. The same was not required as the same did not form part of
procedural manual part 4, Ex.DW1/A. Non-delivery certificate and railway
receipts were on record and thereafter no other document was required to be
called. The requirement of the procedural manual was satisfied by these
documents. 6. The case of the prosecution that A.K. Gambhir was a non-entity is
incorrect. After the Appellant left the NIC on 30th September, 1998, he went
out of India for another job and when he was called back for the enquiry he CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 14 of 70 found that the files were handed over in such a manner that their fidelity
could not be maintained. No list of documents in the file have been prepared
and several documents which ought to have been there like the forwarding
letter of non-delivery certificate are not present. PW1 A.K. Seth admitted
that he did not prepare the seizure memo while collecting the documents.
In Ex.DW-3/2 there is no column to note down the address and the name of
the other side besides the party which is claiming the insurance. Hence it
was beyond the scope of the Appellant to have conducted the enquiry in this
regard. Ex.DW-3/2 does not require that the address of the other side i.e.
consigner or consignee is to be verified. Further PW1 A.K. Seth did not
conduct any enquiry at Ernakulam. The memo in response to which reply
was sent by Kochi office of NIC is not on record. So it cannot be proved
whether the correct address was sent for verification. Relying upon Murlidhar and Ors. Vs. State of Rajasthan 2005 11 SCC 133, it is contended
that facts especially within the knowledge of the accused, which the
prosecution cannot by any means discover, are to be proved by the accused
and the prosecution in the garb of Section 106 Evidence Act cannot shift its
onus to the accused. Section 38 of the General Insurance Act provides
protection to an officer if the action is taken in good faith. Reliance is placed
on GOC Vs. CBI and Anr. AIR 2012 SC 1890. Further criminal conspiracy
cannot be assumed and is required to be proved as held in State of Tamilnadu
Vs. Nalini and Ors. (1999) 5 SCC 253. Neither actus-reas nor mensrea has
been proved and thus the Appellant be acquitted. 7. Learned counsel for the Appellant Vinod Kumar Bhutani submits that
the vigilance report Ex.PW1/A does not name the Appellant. The Appellant CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 15 of 70 is also not named in the FIR Ex. PW17/A. The official witnesses of NIC i.e.
PW1, PW4, PW5, PW7 and PW18 have stated that the Appellant followed
the due procedure with due diligence. The Appellant had no role in
appointing the tracer and thus even if the tracer's report is false, the
Appellant cannot be said to be a conspirator in the said act. There is no
pecuniary benefit attributed to the Appellant. Further the claim of the
prosecution that the original non-delivery certificate was not part of the
claim file is incorrect as Ex.PW7/13, the claim note itself indicates that non-
delivery certificate in original is part of the record. The vigilance report
Ex.PW1/A states that non-delivery certificate was verified. PW1 has also
stated that non-delivery certificate was sent to Kochi Regional Office for
verification and the same was part of the claim file. There is no evidence on
record that the non-delivery certificate was a forged document. The decision
to pass the claim was of the Committee collectively of its three members i.e.
the Appellant, co-convict Rajesh Kohli and G.C. Vij. However, G.C. Vij has
neither been made an accused nor a witness. Role of the Appellant is at par
with G.C. Vij. There is no evidence on record that the Appellant conspired
with the co-accused. Rather all the material witnesses have deposed in
favour of the Appellant. From the evidence on record no criminal
culpability can be attributed. There is no application of mind by the
sanctioning authority. On confronting PW19 with particular documents, he
admitted that the same were missing from file. The Appellant raised this
issue at the earliest opportunity in the cross-examination and thus the trial
against the Appellant is vitiated on this count itself. As a matter of fact, in
the judgment, paras 1 to 135 are narration of prosecution case, Paras 136 to
174 are versions of the defence and in one para i.e. para no. 175 the defence CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 16 of 70 version is discredited without any reasoning being adverted. Without
discussing the evidence on record, findings have been recorded in para 191
of the impugned judgment. Thus, the Appellant be acquitted of the charges
framed. 8. Learned counsel for the Appellant Arvind Kumar Sharma submits that
the Appellant has been falsely implicated with the aid of Section 120B IPC. Section 468 IPC contemplates a forged report and not a bogus report.
Reliance is placed on Mohd. Ibrahim Vs. State of Bihar (2009) 8 SCC 751.
The Appellant's firm M/s. Pooja International is an empanelled tracer duly
appointed to do this job. The tracer's report was duly placed on the claim
file Ex.PW1/C. Appellant's employees went to the railway station at Delhi,
Nagpur, Vijaywada, Salem and Erode. Since at Erode the consignment was
not transferred, there was no purpose for proceeding further to Ernakulam.
Further there was a statutory non-delivery certificate regarding the non-
receipt of consignment at Ernakulam and the tracer's report was only in
addition. The tracer's report was prepared on the information given by the
railways. The Appellant's employees have no mechanism to ensure the
exact information and they can only rely upon the information given verbally
by the railway officers. The Appellant does not disown the report, however
the report was given on the basis of what was told to the employees of the
Appellant by the railway officials. There is no unreasonable claim of
expenses by the Appellant and thus it cannot be said that undue pecuniary
benefit was derived by the Appellant. 9. Learned counsel for the Appellant Kunwar Vijay Juneja submits that
Appellant is only an employee of Pooja International. The report was signed CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 17 of 70 by the Appellant on the basis of inputs received from his colleagues. No
personal enquiry was conducted by the Appellant and thus he cannot be held
personally liable for giving the report. This explanation was duly rendered
by the Appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., however the
same has not been considered by the learned Trial Court. PW1 A.K. Seth of
NIC admits that M/s. Pooja International is an empanelled tracer with the
NIC. PW4 states that he never met Arvind Kumar Sharma, the employer of
the Appellant during investigation. Thus, the vigilance officer made no
enquiries from the Appellant's employer. PW20 Jyoti Kumar, the part I.O.
admits that he never checked the authenticity of the contents of the tracer's
report. PW22 R.P. Kaushal the other investigating officer states that with
regard to verification of Rajan Enterprises a letter was received by PW20
Jyoti Kumar, however this fact has not been stated by PW20 Jyoti Kumar in
his examination-in-chief. M. Shahjahan, the Inspector of CBI who
conducted investigation at Ernakulam, has not been examined as a witness.
PW1 A.K. Seth states that all the three vigilance officers i.e. A.K. Seth, A.L.
Gambhir and A.K. Tiwari went together and it cannot be said that which part
was investigated by whom. Thus, there is no direct evidence on record to
prove any forgery or misconduct on behalf of the Appellant. PW10 and
PW12 have clearly stated that the goods consigned were received in safe and
sound condition. PW5 K. Mahapatra Chief Vigilance Officer admits that the
contents of the report Ex.PW1/A were not based on his personal knowledge.
PW20 Jyoti Kumar, part I.O., states that he does not know where searches
were conducted and whether he examined the accused or not. PW22 R.P.
Kaushal states that he acquainted himself with published manual, tariffs and
guidelines of Insurance Company and without exhibiting these documents, CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 18 of 70 no finding of fake report could have been arrived at. The impugned
judgment has been passed by the learned Trial Court without discussing the
evidence on record. Conviction under Section 468 IPC is not maintainable
as signatures on the report have not been disowned. Before the Trial Court
there were two evidences, one in the form of tracer's report and the other in
the form of testimony of PW10 and PW12. PW10 and PW12 were not the
author of the document Ex.PW10/A which contained the dispatch details. In
the absence of proper proof of Ex.PW10/A, the tracer's report cannot be said
to be incorrect. Ex.PW10/A mentions only Ram Lakhan, loader, who
noticed the consignment number and who has not been produced as a
witness. The difference in the wagon number was not put to the Appellant
under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and thus the same cannot be used against him. 10. Learned counsel for the CBI on the other hand states that A.L. Gambir
was rightly not examined as a witness as the vigilance report was not signed
by A.L. Gambhir as he had been transferred from the said division. The
report was prepared by PW1 A.K. Seth, who deposed that during vigilance
enquiry he went to property No. 3499, Chawri Bazar which had 2/3 stories
and could not find M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation at the given address.
There was no board or person to show that any company in the name of M/s.
Supreme Trading Corporation was operating. PW2 Lalit Chawla is a person
who is conducting business of electrical goods at Shop No. 3499 Chawri
Bazar for the last 20 years, i.e. in the same building and he stated that there
was no firm in the name of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation at Shop No.
3499 Chawri Bazar for the last 20 years. Though he admitted that 3499 is
the municipal number of the building and there are several other shops, CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 19 of 70 however there was no such hoarding in the said premises. Similarly, PW3
Sushant Rastogi who is also running a firm in the neighbourhood stated that
he did know about any firm in the name of M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation. PW18 is one of the investigating officers, who also visited the
place and recorded the statement of Lalit Chawla and Sushant Rastogi and
found that the firm did not exist at the given address. Further Appellant Anil
Maheshwari has given three addresses in the claim file; with the National
Insurance Corporation the address given is 3499 Chawri Bazar, on the
railway receipt the address mentioned is 1784 1st Floor, Chawri Bazar and
the bank account has been opened in the Corporation Bank at the address of
1716 Gali Piou Wali, Darbia Kala. Thus, the conduct of the Appellant itself
shows that the Appellant gave fake addresses. PW11 Rajesh Bali has
deposed that the Appellant closed the account on 19 th July, 1999 after the
claim amount was remitted to his account. The prosecution has also proved
beyond reasonable doubt that the address of Rajan Enterprises was incorrect
from the evidence of PW15 and PW22. PW15 Kochi Regional Officer of
NIC proved that it was difficult to locate the address. Further the
verification sought by PW22 R.P. Kaushal was also returned back with the
endorsement that no such address existed in the beat. PW15 K.V.P.
Namboothiri visited the parcel office at Ernakulam junction railway station
and verified from the Chief Parcel Superintendent Shri Mohanan who stated
that non-delivery certificate Ex.PW15/DA was not genuine. Thus, the claim
was passed on the strength of forged documents. 11. Learned counsel for the CBI further states that the contention of the
Appellants that all relevant documents were there while processing the claim CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 20 of 70 is incorrect. The copy of the railway receipt and non-delivery certificate
were not there on the file as stated by PW7. PW13 Hem Lata Ahuja was
only a stenographer and thus not involved in the offence. The file was
processed by V.K. Bhutani who was a Class-I officer and sanctioned by R.K.
Kohli. The matter was further put up to the Divisional Claims Committee
(in short the DCC) which comprised of again V.K. Bhutani and Rajesh Kohli
and the third person was G.C. Vij who only signed the same and did not
process or sanction it. Admittedly Appellant V.K. Bhutani vide his letters
dated 26th February, 1998 and 12th March, 1998 asked for a number of
documents from M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation. In reply, by the letter
dated 11th March, 1998 all the documents were not given. Thus, in the
absence of two most important documents i.e. the non-delivery certificate by
the railways and the railway receipt, the processing of the claim was
palpably illegal and clearly showed the criminal intent of the Appellants.
PW7 Shri Ami Kumar, Chief Manager NIC has clearly stated that in the
eventuality of the consignment going missing, the non-delivery certificate is
essentially required for passing the claim. The procedural manual
Ex.DW1/A clearly shows that in case some documents are not submitted
reasons have to be recorded. However, the claim file records no reason from
exempting the claimant from submitting, either the non-delivery certificate
or the railway receipts. As per the letter of 12th March, 1998 besides the
railway receipt and non-delivery certificate, the document sought at item
No.3 i.e. the letter of authority from the consignee in favour of M/s. Supreme
Trading Corporation duly attested by railway authorities was also not
submitted. Further even documents No. 4 & 5 in the said letter i.e. copy of
the notice of claim served on the courier through registered AD and AD card CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 21 of 70 of the above notice are also not on record. Certainly non-submitting of these
documents could not result in non-passing of the claim but while dispensing
with these documents the Appellant Vinod Kumar Bhutani and Rajesh
Kumar Kohli should have recorded reasons in detail. In reply to the
contentions raised on behalf of V.K. Bhutani that the sanction granted by
PW19 was without application of mind, reliance is placed on Section 19(1) and (3) of the PC Act and it is contended that no finding can be reversed on
account of any irregularity in sanction. PW19 Shri R.K. Kaul the Assistant
General Manager, who granted the sanction, was competent to remove V.K.
Bhutani. There is no illegality in the sanction granted by the competent
authority. Reliance on Section 38 of the General Insurance Business
Nationalization Act, 1978 is misconceived. Only actions done in good faith
are protected and not the actions committed pursuant to a criminal
conspiracy to commit a criminal offence. Neither Mr. Vinod Kumar Bhutani
nor Rajesh Kumar Kohli called the claimant as they had never met Anil
Maheshwari. Parcel Supervisor confirmed that goods were loaded and sent
in the wagon vide railway receipt No. 646451 for transportation to Madras.
PW6 Vishveswar Nath, who was an Insurance agent, stated that the cheques
which used to come in his name were deposited by him in the account and
after withdrawing the money, the same was given to Rajesh Kumar Kohli.
PW6 was Insurance agent of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation. Thus the
connivance between the Appellants is duly established. R.K. Kohli, the
Appellant who entered the witness box and examined himself as DW3
admitted that PW6 Vishveswar Nath Tiwari was appointed as Insurance
agent. It has been established beyond reasonable doubt that the tracer's
report was a false document. In this regard, the testimonies of PW10 Trilok CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 22 of 70 Nath Bhatia in-charge railway city booking and PW12 Suraj Prakash are
relevant who have stated that the goods from M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation were received on 24th December, 1997 and dispatched on 26th
December, 1997 vide RR No. 646451 dated 13th December, 1997.
According to PW12 these goods were dispatched by wagon No. SC
7070878. However, as per the tracer's report, the goods were sent from
Delhi in Train No. 2626 SLR 45680. Thus, the tracer's report tracked an
incorrect wagon number through which consignment was sent on 14th
December, 1997. In view of the testimony of PW10 and PW12 it has been
proved beyond reasonable doubt that the claim was passed on the strength of
a false tracer's report. M/s. Rajan Enterprises was a non-existent firm and in
this regard verification was conducted by KVP Namboothiri, officer of the
NIC at Kochin. This witness has proved that non-delivery certificate was a
forged document. Since the Appellant Vinod Kumar Bhutani and Rajesh
Kumar Kohli appointed the tracer and passed the claim in the absence of
essential documents, the learned Trial Court rightly shifted the burden on the
accused under Section 106 of the Evidence Act. The offence of forgery is
made out not only by the signatures being forged but also by signing a
document which has false recitals therein. Reference is made to illustration
‗d' to the explanation to Section 464 IPC. By the acts of the Appellants,
criminal misconduct, as contemplated under Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act,
is proved beyond reasonable doubt. Reliance is placed on Ashok Tshering
Bhutia Vs. State of Sikkim Crl.A. 945/2003 decided on 25th February, 2011;
Mamta Devi Vs. Vijaykumar Mamraj Agrawal 2008 Crl.L.J. 970 Bombay
High Court; Collector of Customs, Madras Vs. D. Bhoorumal AIR 1974 SC
859; Padala Veera Reddy Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. AIR 1990 SC CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 23 of 70 79; Firoizuddin Basheeruddin Vs. State of Kerala (2001) 7 SCC 596; State
of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Sheetla Sahai 2009 Crl.L.J. 4436 SC; Indian Bank
Vs. M/s Satyam Fibers (India) Pvt. Ltd. decided on 09.08.1996 by Hon'ble
Supreme Court; H.N. Rishbud & Inder Singh Vs. State of Delhi 1995 AIR
196; State of M.P. Vs. Harishankar Bhagwan P.D. Tripathi ( 2010) 8 SCC
655 and State of Maharashtra & Ors. Vs. Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri 1996 SCC
(1) 542. 12. Heard learned counsel for the parties. A brief exposition of the facts
are that an insurance policy was issued in the name of M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation 3499 Chawri Bazar, Delhi-06 by Division Office- X of NIC for
dispatch of industrial hardware goods from Delhi to Ernakulam. The goods
were sent to M/s. Rajan Enterprises 68/4 Main Bazar, Opp. Post office
Ernakulam vide RR No. 646451 dated 13th December, 1997 of Northern
Railways. Vide letter dated 19th January, 1998 M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation informed the Divisional Office NIC regarding loss of
consignment. On the said letter Appellant Rajesh Kohli the then Divisional
Manager appointed M/s. Pooja International, an authorized tracer on the
panel of NIC, as a ―tracer‖. As per the complaint of NIC which formed the
basis of FIR, the vigilance team made enquiries and it was found that the
consignee was not found at the given address and the consignor took a
fraudulent claim from the company on the basis of fake damage certificate in
connivance with Rajesh Kohli and Arvind Kumar Sharma of M/s Pooja
International. Since the claim was passed by public servant Rajesh Kumar
Kohli by abusing their official position, RC No. 1(e)/2001/EOW-1/New
Delhi under Section 120B read with Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 470 IPC and CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 24 of 70 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the PC Act was registered. During investigation
a further report was sent vide Ex.PW22/B that the claim file did not contain
Railway Receipt and non-delivery certificate and the claim was settled in the
absence of non-delivery certificate. After the filing of the charge-sheet the
evidence of the prosecution was recorded and the Appellants were examined
under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Appellants Rajesh Kumar Kohli and Vinod
Kumar Bhutani appeared as defence witnesses and examined themselves as
DW3 and DW2 respectively. The learned Trial Court convicted the
Appellants as above and returned the following findings in para 191 of the
impugned judgment: (iv) TA/DA bill vide invoice No. 630, dated 24.2.1998
 of Pooja International signed by Kunwar Vijay Juneja
 was submitted in the NIC Ltd. (v) The aforesaid bill recommended by accused Vinod
 Kumar Bhutani and was passed by accused Rajesh
 Kumar Kohli. (vi) The said bill for an amount of Rs. 2,763/-, which
 has been proved as Ex.PW22/O and signed by accused
 Kunwar Vijay Juneja as Chief Executive, was paid to
 M/s Pooja International which was credited in the current CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 25 of 70 Account No. CA 279 on 30.6.1998 of Pooja International
 of accused Arvind Kumar Sharma in OBC, Paschim
 Vihar, New Delhi, which is proved vide statement of
 account, Ex.PW 16/A-3. (vii) Rajan Enterprises (the consignee) was found non-
 existent at the given address, in Ernakulam. (viii) The address of the claimant company Supreme
 Trading Corporation, given in Railway Receipt,
 Ex.PW22/A is 1784, 1st Floor, Chawri Bazar, whereas in
 corporation Bank, it is given as 1716 Gali Piou Wali
 Dariba, Delhi-6 vide Ex. PW 22/K, where claim amount
 was deposited/ encashed and was soon withdrawn. This
 speaks of fraudulent mind of the accused/ claimant, Anil
 Maheshwari of the Supreme Trading Corporation, who
 has given different address in the insurance policy and
 other documents submitted to NIC. It is none of the case
 of the defence of accused Anil Maheshwari that Supreme
 Trading Corporation was having three addresses. Further, the burden to show that Supreme Trading
 Corporation existed at the given address, under Section
 106 of Evidence Act, was on Supreme Trading
 Corporation as the accused was having special and
 specific knowledge of all valid documents, pertinent to
 Supreme Trading Corporation. But the defence has
 failed to do so. (ix) Letter, Ex.PW1/E, dated 31.5.1999 shows non- existence (door No. given was false, there were number
 of post offices, vague address ‗Opp Post Office' only was
 given without specifying which post Office) of M/s. Rajan Enterprises (the consignee) as per enquiries
 conduced and proved by PW15. (x) As per Ex.PW1/D, No - ‗non-delivery certificate'
 was issued from Ernakulam Railway Station. The ‗non-
 delivery certificate' furnished in the claim file,
 Ex.PW1/C was, therefore, false, forged and fabricated. (xi) Accused Arvind Sharma was connected to Pooja
 International and opened its account with Oriental bank CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 26 of 70 of Commerce. The account opening form has been
 proved as Ex.PW 16/A-2. (xii) Ex.PW22/A, the expert's opinion on admitted and
 questioned document, regarding handwriting of the
 accused persons, goes unchallenged. In the case law reported as Murari Lal Vs. State of M.P. ,
 AIR 1980 SC 531, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that: On the said document there is no date of receipt/ stamp of
 receipt of NIC/ DO-X. It is therefore, shocking as to how
 it reached NIC/DO-X. It is admitted by the defence, in
 their evidence, that documents received in NIC, DO-X,
 were duly stamped, in token of receipt. (xiv) Letter dated 27.6.2002, Ex.PW22/B, from NIC to
 R.P. Kaushal, IO of this case, disclosed that regarding the
 claim in question i.e. ‗Super Trading Corporation', the
 sum insured was Rs. 4,58,000/- and that in the absence of
 Damage/ shortage certificate and copy of railway receipt,
 the claim was settled. It was gross violation of the
 prescribed norms. (xv) The claim file, Ex.PW1/C, contains the false and
 fabricated documents, which admittedly were produced
 by the insured, accused Anil Maheshwari of M/s
 Supreme Trading Corporation and the Tracer, M/s Pooja
 International. These documents were admittedly
 processed by the accused Rajesh Kumar Kohli and
 accused Vinod Kumar Bhutani, when the claim was CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 27 of 70 passed in this case by them. The norms listed out in the
 Manual, Ex.DW1/A were violently flouted, without any
 cogent reason. (xvi) Ex. PW 3/D-1 is the note to Divisional Manager
 vide which the claim was recommended to be settled by
 the accused V.K. Bhutani. It was approved by accused
 Rajesh Kumar Kohli. A bare perusal of this note shows
 how the norms were deliberately flouted to benefit the
 insured. (xvii) Vide letter, Ex.DW2/DX-5, which was available,
 admittedly, in the claim file, the insured, M/s Supreme
 Trading Corporation, was asked/ directed to submit the
 following original documents mentioned therein i.e. 1.Original RR duly enclosed by the Railway
 Authority 2.Disposal of RR and get the original non delivery
 certificate from Railway Authority. 3.Letter of Authority from your consignee in your
 favour duly attested by Railway Authority. 4.Copy of notice of claim served on the carrier
 through Regd. AD post claim monetary
 compensation for loss suffered. 5.AD Card of the above notice. 6.Original copy of invoice. 7.Copy of Railway Receipt 8.Your claim bill in duplicate. 9.Packing List (Item wise) 10.Enclosed claim form duly completed. However, it is evidently clear that all the aforesaid
 requisitioned documents do not find mention in para 24
 of the note, Ex. DW3/D1. The following documents find mention in the said note,
 Ex.DW 3/D1, which were shown as received and
 verified: There is nothing on record to show that any of the
 documents was dispensed with either by the accused
 V.K. Bhutani or by the accused R.K. Kohli. There is no
 reason mentioned anywhere in the claim file that any of
 the document was dispensed with in this case. Thus,
 despite specific requisition of the necessary documents,
 and without compliance by the insured claimant i.e.
 supreme Trading Corporation of the letter dated
 12.3.1998, the claim was very swiftly and hurriedly
 passed, in this case. (xviii) Further, the claim form available in this file, filed
 by the Supreme Trading Corporation, bears the date of
 10.3.1998 whereas the letter dated 12.3.1998, which is
 Ex.DW 2/DX-5, has enclosed the claim form to be
 completed by the insured. How it is then that the claim
 form was filed on 10.3.1998 i.e. prior to 12.3.1998,
 whereas the claim form was enclosed vide letter dated
 12.3.1998 by NIC? (xix) The claim file contains the invoice, raised by Pooja
 International, which bears the signatures of accused K.V.
 Juneja, admittedly, raising the bill of Rs. 2763. It is not
 disputed that this bill was raised on behalf of M/s Pooja
 International. The amount of Rs. 2763/- was admittedly
 paid to M/s Pooja International, which was duly
 deposited in their account owned and operated by the
 accused Arvind Sharma. The same has been established
 on record. M/s Pooja International, in this case, has filed
 ‗Tracer's' fake and forged report. (xx) According to claim note, the survey in this case
 was arranged on 6.2.1998, whereas the document Ex.DW CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 29 of 70 2/P-15, indiciates that M/s Pooja International was
 deputed as Tracer on 4.2.1998 i.e. prior to the survey
 arranged which does not appeal to logic. In any case, the
 tracing report, on the face of it, does not inspire any
 confidence inasmuch as it appears to have been
 manipulated. The Tracer knew very well that the
 consignment was sent from Delhi to Ernakulam Station
 and his assignment was to trace the goods from Delhi to
 Ernakulam or the place where it got damaged/ misplaced.
 The Tracer, however, did not go up to Ernakulam station
 and arbitrarily terminated his journey at Erode Station
 only, without tracing the goods. Further, it is mentioned
 in the Survey Report, which is Ex.PW 1/DC, that their
 representative checked the record of M/s Supreme
 Trading Corporation and collected the photocopies of
 various documents like invoice/ bill, consignee letter,
 claim lodged on Railways. However, the same were not
 enclosed, admittedly, with the said Tracer Report. It is
 not indicated in the report that anything was enclosed
 with the report. Apart from this, the same was not
 available in the file also. (xxi) Further, perusal of ‗tracer's' report shows that the
 report is suspicious, on the face of it, as it recites that
 representative of M/s Pooja International met one Mr.
 Kesar, representatives of M/s Supreme Trading
 Corporation on behalf of the accused Anil Maheshwari,
 however, nowhere it is clarified as to who Mr. Keswar
 was or whether Mr. Kesar had anything to do with M/s
 Supreme Trading Corporation. The tracer report does not
 mention as to when the representative reached Nagpur
 Station. The names, indicated in the report, are not
 complete inasmuch as it mentions the names like - Ramachandran, Mr. Ansari, etc. The report, regarding
 Erode Station, also does not inspire confidence inasmuch
 as their representative checked some other six cases
 containing the names with which the consignment in
 question, allegedly sent by the consignor, had nothing to
 do. In any case, the tracer report nowhere provided at CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 30 of 70 what point the goods were lost. No authentic
 documentary evidence was collected from the Railway
 Authority. It is, therefore, clear that this forged report
 was filed, considered, accepted and claim was released in
 favour of accused Anil Maheshwari as a part of criminal
 conspiracy amongst the accused persons. (xxii) The letter, Ex.DW2/DX-8, issued by the accused
 Rajesh Kumar Kohli is the letter, vide which M/s Pooja
 International was appointed as recovery agent also. The
 claim in this case was passed admittedly on 18.6.1998. It
 is not understood as to why then recovery agent was
 appointed prior to that date. Moreover, M/s Pooja
 International filed false, forged and vague Tracing
 Report. It is not understood how the same M/s Pooja
 International was appointed as tracer as well as the
 recovery agent. Admittedly, there is nothing
 available on record to show that any attempt was
 made or any recovery was made from the Carrier
 i.e. the Railways, in this case. It appears that
 criminal intent of the accused persons was only to
 ensure passing of the bogus claim and cheat NIC. (xxiii) Accused Anil Maheshwari was in the specific
 knowledge regarding existence of Rajan Enterprises, the
 consignee, in this case and about his own Supreme
 Trading Corporation. The burden of proof under Section
 106 of the Evidence Act lay on him. In any case, later
 on, it shifted to him to show that both these
 establishments were existing. The material established
 on record by the prosecution clearly indicates that none
 of them was found existing at the given address. Accused Anil Maheshwari despite being in the power
 and possession of exclusive knowledge and other
 documentary evidence did not come forward to
 demonstrate that these establishments existed at the given
 address. This clearly established that what prosecution
 has shown is correct i.e. both consignor and consignee CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 31 of 70 did not exist at the given address and the claim was
 bogus. In the case law reported as Krishna Kumar Vs. UOI , AIR
 1959 SC 1390, and Indore Municipal Corporation Vs.
 Caltex (India) Ltd, AIR 1991 SC 454, Hon'ble Supreme
 Court has held that: In the Corporation Bank, where accused Anil
 Maheshwari deposited the amount of claim, contains the
 address of Supreme Trading Corporation as 1716, Gali
 Piou Wali, Dariba, Delhi. Still further in the Insurance
 Policy, the address given by the insured, M/s Supreme
 Trading Corporation, as 3499 Chawri Bazar, Delhi. It is,
 therefore, clear from all these undisputed and duly
 proved documents that accused Anil Maheshwari had
 certain and definite intentions to commit cheating and
 fraud by projecting Supreme Trading Corporation falsely
 by giving different addresses to different agencies.
 (xxv) The circumstances and documents proved by the
 prosecution and which are available on record squarely
 proves that there was a well knit criminal conspiracy
 hatched by all the accused persons. Subsequently, they
 all performed their respective roles to get the offences
 committed in a systematic, clandestine and organized
 manner. (xxvi)Accused Vinod Kumar Bhutani and Accused
 Rajesh Kumar Kohli, as discussed above, processed and
 passed the fraudulent claim based on false, fabricated and
 non-existing facts in pursuance to the criminal CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 32 of 70 conspiracy. They abused their official position to benefit
 the claimant, accused Anil Maheshwari to the extent of
 claim amount. Accused Anil Maheshwari presented the
 bogus claim and pocketed the proceeds of the claim. Accused Arvind Kumar Sharma and K.V. Juneja
 presented bogus tracers report and illegally charged NIC
 the fees, thereof. The tracer report presented by them
 was also false and fabricated as it did not correspond to
 the truthful position. 13. There are four serious fundamental flaws in the case of the
prosecution which have been erroneously held in favour of the prosecution
and against the Appellants by the learned Trial Court. Firstly the case of
the prosecution is that the important documents like the railway receipt and
the non-delivery certificate were not available on record and the claim was
passed in the absence of these material documents. On the other hand it is
contended that the non-delivery certificate was a forged document. The two
contrary contentions cannot co-exist. If the non-delivery certificate was not
on record it could not have been held that a forged document was used. Secondly the prosecution has failed to prove by legal evidence that the
non-delivery certificate was a forged document. Thirdly it is even the case of the prosecution that the Appellant M/s
Supreme Trading Corporation had booked a consignment which was duly
dispatched however, the prosecution has failed to prove that this
consignment was either received by the Appellant Anil Maheshwari or
somebody at his instance and thus the NIC was cheated by raising a false
claim. Fourthly it is the case of the prosecution witnesses itself that on the
basis of documents available, the officer was required to pass the claim. If CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 33 of 70 that be the position then it cannot be said that the Appellants Vinod Kumar
Bhutani and Rajesh Kohli committed criminal misconduct as defined under Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act. 14. As noted above vide finding no. (xiv) in para 191 of the impugned
judgment, the learned Trial Court held that the letter dated 27 th July, 2002
Ex. PW22/B from NIC to R.P. Kaushal, the Investigating Officer disclosed
that regarding the claim in question, that is, M/s Supreme Trading
Corporation, the sum insured was Rs. 4.58 lakhs and that in the absence of
damage/shortage certificate and copy of the railway receipt, the claim was
settled. It was gross violation of the prescribed norms. Ex. PW22/B is a
photocopy of the letter from the Assistant Manager, NIC to the Investigating
Officer R.P. Kaushal wherein on examination of the six marine claim files he
stated about the details of the documents available/non-available along with
the discrepancy noticed in the claims. As per the said document the
Assistant Manager stated that the documents i.e. damage/shortage certificate
and copy of RR were not available in the file and the discrepancy noted was
that the claim was settled in the absence of Damage/shortage certificate. Ex.
PW1/A is the vigilance report which has been exhibited by PW1 and on the
basis of which FIR has been registered. The finding of the vigilance inquiry
conducted by the PW1 and two other officers reads as under: 15. This report does not say that the claim was passed in the absence of
these two important documents, that is, the railway receipt and the non-
delivery certificate. As a matter of fact as regards the railway receipt
number is mentioned and it is stated that it has been confirmed from the
Chief Parcel Supervisor at Delhi, Main Station that goods were loaded on the
wagon for transportation to Madras vide Receipt No. 645451. As regards the
non-delivery certificate, it clearly mentions that efforts are being made to
verify the same through the Kochi Vigilance Officer. Further PW1 in his
deposition before the Court has not stated that when he conducted the
vigilance inquiry, these two documents were not on the record. As a matter
of fact, PW1 who was the Vigilance Officer of NIC from January, 1992 to
March, 2003, is silent on this aspect in his examination in chief and in cross-
examination he admitted that one of the documents received and verified in
the claim note was the railway receipt. He further agreed that the railway
receipt or the copy of the railway receipt was presently not exhibited in file
Ex. PW1/C containing pages 1-26. He could not say as to why the copy of
the railway receipt was missing from the file. He further clarified that he did
not remember if railway receipt was there when he seized the file from the
division. It is thus apparent that there is no material on record to show that
the railway receipt was not available on the claim file when the claim was
passed. As regards the non-delivery certificate, PW1 in his cross-
examination admitted that in his report he stated that the non-delivery CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 36 of 70 certificate was got verified through Kochi Regional Office. Thus, the said
non-delivery certificate was part of the file. Therefore, the very basis of the
prosecution case that the claim was passed in the absence of two most
material documents as stated in their report Ex.PW22/B to the Investigating
Officer as upheld by the learned Trial Court is wholly incorrect. Further Ex.
PW22/B was only a report to the Investigating Officer by the Assistant
Manager Mr. Suresh Roy and was thus not substantive evidence. Mr. Suresh
Roy has not been examined as a witness. This document has been exhibited
by I.O. PW22 R.P. Kaushal, who is not the author of this document. PW9
P.K. Aggarwal from vigilance department NIC handed over the claim file to
the IO vide seizure memo Ex.PW9/A dated 8.2.2001. He admitted that the
claim file of Supreme Trading Corporation Ex.PW1/C contained 28
documents. He admitted that he could not say if any seizure memo was
prepared while seizing these documents from DOX by the vigilance
department. Further PW20 Inspector Jyoti Kumar the I.O. in his cross-
examination admitted that vide document Ex.PW9/A, the claim file with 28
documents were seized whereas before the Court, the file contained only 26
documents. It is thus evident that sanctity of preserving the documents in the
claim file was not maintained at any stage. Even PW1 A.K. Seth stated that
there was no procedure for seizure of documents. He did not know who
seized the claim file from DOX. Thus, the learned Trial Court erroneously
returned the finding on the basis of the documents Ex. PW22/B as if by
reporting that the railway receipt and non-delivery certificate were not
available on the record; the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt
that these documents were not available on the claim file and the claim was
passed in the absence of these documents. 16. The second most important finding No. (x) of the learned Trial Court
is that as per the Ex. PW1/D, no non-delivery certificate was issued from
Ernakulum Railway Station. The non-delivery certificate furnished in the
claim file Ex. PW1/C was therefore, false, forged and fabricated. This
finding of the learned Trial Court is based on no legal evidence and is wholly
erroneous. Ex. PW1/D is a letter from PW15 K.V.P. Namboodri, Assistant
Manager/Vigilance Officer, Cochin Branch of NIC to PW1 A.K. Seth,
Vigilance Officer, Delhi NIC wherein he stated that he visited the Parcel
Office of Ernakulum Junction Railway Station on 27th September, 1999 and
discussed the matter with Mr. Mohanan, Chief Parcel Superintendent and
Mr. Surender Nath, office staff. They verified their records thoroughly and
confirmed that no such non-delivery certificate was issued from their office.
They further stated the signatures and the rubber stamp of Chief Parcel seen
in the certificate were not genuine and nobody signs as seen in it. Neither
Mr. Mohanan, Chief Parcel Superintendent nor Mr. Surender Nath, office
staff have been produced in the witness box who could on the basis of
original record or on identifying the signatures not to be of the officer
concerned could prove that the non-delivery certificate in the claim file Ex.
PW1/C was a forged document. Since neither this document has been
proved to be forged by the person in whose handwriting it is purported to be,
nor by the expert opinion that the signatures on the documents were not of
the person concerned, it could not have been held that the non-delivery
certificate was proved to be forged document. The learned Trial Court
defied the fundamental legal principles of proving a document to be forged
before the Court and returned a finding that the non-delivery certificate was
a forged and fabricated document without there being any evidence on CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 38 of 70 record. The letter of Mr. K.V. P. Namboodri, PW15, who was the Vigilance
Officer, is just like the statement of an Investigating Officer, who states that
the document is a forged document without proving the same from the
purported author of the document or person acquainted with his handwriting
or after exhibiting and proving the original documents that the same does not
relate to the pertaining entries. The photocopy of the non-delivery certificate
purported to be a forged document was exhibited as Ex. PW15/DA while
confronting PW15. The prosecution even failed to prove the original alleged
forged non-delivery certificate on record. Further this inquiry of PW15 was
merely on oral request and nothing was given by Mr. Mohanan, Chief Parcel
Superintendent in writing to PW15 in respect of the alleged fake certificate
Ex. PW15/DA. The investigating agency had cited Mr. E.A. Sathyanasen as
a witness to prove the forgery of non-delivery certificate. Once summons
were served to Mr. Sathyanasen to appear as witness however he did not
appear. As per the status report filed by SP CBI before this Court, it is
apparent that no further serious efforts were made to examine this witness
and the learned SPP gave up this witness. There is total violation of Sections
45 to 47 of the Evidence Act while returning this finding in sub-para (viii) of
Para 191 of the impugned judgment. Thus the prosecution has failed to
prove that the non-delivery certificate on record was a forged document.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court in S. Gopal Reddy Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh AIR 1996 SC 2184 held: These modes are legitimate methods of proving documents but
 before they can be accepted they must bear sufficient strength
 to carry conviction. Keeping in view the in-conclusive and
 indefinite nature of the evidence of the handwriting expert PW
 3 and the lack of competence on the part of PW1 to be familiar
 with the handwriting of the appellant, the approach adopted by
 the courts below to arrive at the conclusion that the disputed
 letters were written by the appellant to Ms. Vani on the basis of
 the evidence of PW 1 and PW 3 was not proper. The doubtful
 evidence of PW 1 could neither offer any corroboration to the
 inconclusive and indefinite opinion of the handwriting expert CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 40 of 70 PW3 nor could it receive any corroboration from the opinion of
 PW3. We are not satisfied, in the established facts and
 circumstances of this case, that the prosecution has established
 either the genuineness or the authorship of the disputed letters
 allegedly written by the appellant from the evidence of PW1 or
 PW3. The courts below appear to have taken a rather superficial
 view of the matter while relying upon the evidence of PW1 and
 PW3 to hold the appellant guilty. We find it unsafe to base the
 conviction of the appellant on the basis of the evidence of PW1
 or PW3 in the absence of substantial independent corroboration,
 internally or externally, of their evidence, which in this case is
 totally wanting.‖ 17. The Prosecution has sought to prove the evidence of non-delivery
certificate being a forged document by hearsay evidence which is not
permissible in law. In Kalyan Kumar Gogoi Vs. Ashutosh Agnihotri and
Anr. (2011) 2 SCC 532 it was held: Sometimes it means whatever a person is heard to say. Sometimes it means whatever a person declares on information
 given by someone else and sometimes it is treated as nearly
 synonymous with irrelevant. The sayings and doings of the
 third person are, as a rule, irrelevant, so that no proof of them
 can be admitted. Every act done or spoken which is relevant on
 any ground must be proved by someone who saw it with his
 own eyes and heard it with his own ears. 36. The argument that the rule of appreciation of hearsay
 evidence would not apply to determination of the question
 whether change of venue of polling station has materially
 affected the result of the election of the returned candidate,
 cannot be accepted for the simple reason that, this question has
 to be determined in a properly constituted election petition to be
 tried by a High Court in view of the provisions contained in Part VI of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and Section 87(2) of the 1951 Act, which specifically provides that
 the provisions of the Evidence Act, 1872 , shall subject to the
 provisions of the Act, be deemed to apply in all respects to the
 trial of an election petition. The learned counsel for the
 appellant could not point out any provision of the 1951 Act,
 which excludes the application of rule of appreciation of
 hearsay evidence to the determination of question posed for
 consideration of this Court in the instant appeal. 37. Here comes the rule of appreciation of hearsay evidence.
 Hearsay evidence is excluded on the ground that it is always
 desirable, in the interest of justice, to get the person, whose
 statement is relied upon, into court for his examination in the
 regular way, in order that many possible sources of inaccuracy
 and untrustworthiness can be brought to light and exposed, if
 they exist, by the test of cross-examination. The phrase
 ―hearsay evidence‖ is not used in the Evidence Act because it is
 inaccurate and vague. It is a fundamental rule of evidence under
 the Indian law that hearsay evidence is inadmissible. A
 statement, oral or written, made otherwise than by a witness in
 giving evidence and a statement contained or recorded in any
 book, document or record whatsoever, proof of which is not CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 42 of 70 admitted on other grounds, are deemed to be irrelevant for the
 purpose of proving the truth of the matter stated. An assertion
 other than one made by a person while giving oral evidence in
 the proceedings is inadmissible as evidence of any fact asserted.
 That this species of evidence cannot be tested by cross-
 examination and that, in many cases, it supposes some better
 testimony which ought to be offered in a particular case, are not
 the sole grounds for its exclusion. Its tendency to protract legal
 investigations to an embarrassing and dangerous length, its
 intrinsic weakness, its incompetence to satisfy the mind of a
 judge about the existence of a fact, and the fraud which may be
 practised with impunity, under its cover, combine to support the
 rule that hearsay evidence is inadmissible. 38. The reasons why hearsay evidence is not received as
 relevant evidence are: Thus statements of witnesses based on information received
 from others is inadmissible. 18. The learned Trial Court committed a serious error in returning two
contradictory findings. It could not have held at the same time that the claim
was passed in the absence of non-delivery certificate and that the claim was
passed on the basis of a forged non-delivery certificate. The non-delivery
certificate was either there on record or not. Both the facts cannot co-exist. The prosecution case is self contradictory and the learned Special Judge not
only failed to notice the same but also accepted the two contrary contentions. 19. Thirdly, it is the case of the prosecution itself that the firm of
Appellant Anil Maheshwari, M/s Supreme Trading Corporation sent the
consignment to Ernakulum vide Railway Receipt No. 645451 dated 13 th
December, 1997 as per the testimony of PW10 Trilok Nath Bhatia, in-charge
of Railway City Booking Agency, Northern Railway, Barafkhana Sabzi
Mandi, Delhi. PW10 stated that he was posted as in charge from 1986 and
was working for Shri Mohan Lal Jaggi and sons who was running an agency
authorized for booking parcel, goods and ticket booking on behalf of the
Northern Railway. The entire details of the booking etc. used to be sent to
the railway. Four copies of the railway receipts used to be prepared. One
used to be sent to the consignor, one to the accounts office, one to guard
operation for affixing and one for record. He stated that he had seen copy of
the railway receipt No. 645451 dated 13th December, 1997 and as per the
railway receipt four packets of hardware goods were booked by M/s
Supreme Trading Corporation, Chawri Bazar, Delhi. The goods were
booked after the receipt of forwarding note and the railway receipt was
issued. The goods were then sent to the parcel office of the Northern
Railway under Summary No. 8915 dated 23rd December, 1997 along with lot
of 138 packets. He identified the signatures of Shri Dogra on the Summary
No. 8915 as he had worked under him. The goods sent by the Summary No.
8915 Ex. PW10/A had been loaded and so acknowledged by Chief Parcel
Supervisor, Northern Railway. He further stated that though they do not
check the goods while booking the same however, checked the outward
condition of the packets and book the goods by measurement, weight, CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 44 of 70 volume and on the basis of the declaration of the supplier. He further
reiterated that on seeing the railway receipt he could say that the goods were
sent to M/s Rajan Enterprises, Opposite Post Office, Ernakulum. PW12
Suraj Prakash working as Head Parcel in Delhi Main Railway Station, Old
Delhi was also examined. On seeing RR No. 645451 dated 13th December,
1997 and summary of RR Ex.PW10/A dated 23rd December, 1997 he stated
that four packets of hardware goods were booked to Ernakulam destination
by their parcel office on 26th December, 1997 in wagon No. SE 80878. They
got no intimation whether goods were delivered or not at the given
destination. It is thus the case of the prosecution itself that the goods were
dispatched by M/s Supreme Trading Corporation vide Railway Receipt No.
645451 dated 13th December, 1997. To return a finding that a false claim
was passed, the prosecution was thereafter required to prove that the goods
were delivered at the address given or were intercepted by the Appellant
Anil Maheshwari by himself or through someone else and despite the same a
claim was taken. The prosecution has placed no material to prove that after
dispatch of the goods from Delhi where the goods have gone. Though a
doubt is raised in the vigilance enquiry as to what goods were sent however
it is not even the case of prosecution that other articles or no goods were sent
and a claim was raised. In the light of this material, the finding of the
learned Trial Court that a false claim was approved by Rajesh Kohli and
Vinod Kumar Bhutani and on the basis of a false claim, Anil Maheshwari
committed the offence of cheating is wholly erroneous and perverse. 20. Fourthly, the case of the prosecution as per the statement of PW1 A.K.
Seth, Vigilance Officer itself is that by merely looking at the document, that
is, non-delivery certificate it cannot be ascertained whether it was a fake CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 45 of 70 document or not. He admitted that the Divisional Officer does not have any
device and no cause can straightaway be made out whether the document is
original or fake. He further admitted that it was correct that there was no
regulation or rule in the company that every non-delivery certificate should
first be verified and only then the claim paid. He also admitted that by
signing of the claim note, Mr. Vinod Kumar Bhutani and Rajesh Kohli
committed no breach of any rule of the company and in passing of the claim
by DCC, there was no breach of any rule. Besides PW1 Anil Seth, the
prosecution also examined PW4 Anil Kumar Tiwari, who assisted A.K. Seth
and A.L. Gambhir in the vigilance enquiry of the NIC and signed the report.
A.L. Gambhir was never examined as a prosecution witness. PW4 A.K.
Tiwari also admitted that no rule of the company was breached in issuance
of policy no. 21451842. He also stated that the verification of address of
Supreme Trading Corporation at 1716 Gali Piao Wali or at the bank were not
done personally by him. He admitted that the conclusions were not based on
investigations done by him personally. This witness admitted that non-
delivery certificate was sent to Kochi R.O. for verification, since by merely
looking at it, it was not possible to determine whether it was a true or false
certificate. He admitted that no rule of the company required Divisional
Manager to first have the non-delivery certificate checked up from Kochi
Regional Office and then pay the claim. He admitted that there was nothing
wrong in Mr. V.K. Bhutani and Mr. G.C. Vij signing the claim in the claim
file vide Ex.PW1/C. He further admitted that no rule of the company
required the Divisional Manager to check about the existence of consignee
and then only to under-write the insurance or pay the claim. He also
admitted that during the process of settlement of claim, the officers CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 46 of 70 concerned do not have any documents beyond the documents available in the
file and there is no such test to know whether the documents are genuine or
forged at the time of processing the claim. Though learned counsel for the
Appellant states that an adverse inference needs to be drawn for non-
examination of A.L. Gambhir, the third member of the vigilance team,
however even in the absence of statement of A.L. Gambir, PW1 A.K. Seth
and PW4 A.K. Tiwari have not been able to point out any negligence much
less a misconduct or a criminal misconduct qua the Appellants V.K. Bhutani
and Rajesh Kumar Kohli. Thus it is apparent that the Appellants Rakesh
Kohli and Vinod Kumar Bhutani neither committed breach of any rule of the
company in issuing the policy or passing the claim nor from merely looking
at the non-delivery certificate it was possible to determine whether the same
was true or false. Thus the Appellants were not even negligent in their
conduct what to say about misconducting themselves. The word
‗misconduct' in criminal jurisprudence finds mention only in Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act though used very often and primarily in service
jurisprudence. In State of Punjab & Anr. Vs. Ram Singh Ex.Constable (1992) 4 SCC 54 their Lordship considered ‗misconduct' and held: forbidden act, a transgression of established and definite rule of
 action or code of conduct but not mere error of judgment,
 carelessness or negligence in performance of the duty; the act
 complained of bears forbidden quality or character. Its ambit
 has to be construed with reference to the subject matter and the CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 48 of 70 context wherein the term occurs, regard being had to the scope
 of the statute and the public purpose it seeks to serve. The
 police service is a disciplined service and it requires to maintain
 strict discipline. Laxity in this behalf erodes discipline in the
 service causing serious effect in the maintenance of law and
 order.‖ 21. For an offence defined under Section 13(1)(d) PC Act, the prosecution
is required to prove the criminality in the misconduct. Thus, the misconduct
should be accompanied by culpability i.e. the requisite knowledge that the
misconduct is so gross so as to constitute an offence. While dealing with
criminal misconduct constituting an offence under Section 13(1)(d) of the
PC Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in R. Sai Bharathi Vs. J. Jayalalitha &
Ors. (2004) 2 SCC 9 held: 22. The definition of offence of criminal misconduct under Section
13(1)(d) of the PC Act shows that the pecuniary advantage or advantage of
any valuable thing to himself or to the other person should be coupled by CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 50 of 70 either corrupt or illegal means or abusing the position as a public servant or
without any public interest. It may be noted that it is the duty of a public
servant to pass orders like award of tender, claim etc. Thus, merely causing
pecuniary advantage to someone will not hold the public servant liable for
criminal misconduct under Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act, as by awarding a
tender or claim the pecuniary advantage is bound to follow. The prosecution
is bound to prove that the pecuniary advantage or the valuable thing to that
person was obtained either by corrupt or illegal means or by abusing the
position or without any public interest. It may be further noted that the
presumption under Section 20 PC Act is not available for an offence of
criminal misconduct under Section 13(1)(d) PC Act. In absence of proof by
the prosecution of corrupt or illegal means, abuse of position or without any
public interest, the prosecution cannot be said to have proved the offence
under Section 13(1)(d) PC Act punishable under Section 13(2) PC Act. In
the present case the prosecution has failed to either prove that corrupt or
illegal means were used by Appellants Vinod Kumar Bhutani or Rajesh
Kohli or they abused their position or that the claim was passed without any
public interest. Hence neither substantive offence under Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) PC Act nor the conspiracy thereof can be said to have been
proved against the Appellants. 23. There are further flaws in the prosecution case besides those
mentioned above. The finding of the learned Trial Court that M/s. Supreme
Trading Corporation was a non-existent firm is also erroneous. The
prosecution examined PW1 A.K. Seth, the Vigilance officer who stated that
during the vigilance enquiry he went to property no. 3499 Chawri Bazar, CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 51 of 70 Delhi though he did not remember the date. The property as he remembered
was two-three storied. He did not know in whose possession the ground,
first or second floor were. He only knew that he could not find M/s.
Supreme Trading Corporation at the given address. He further stated that
there was no board or person to the effect that there was any company in the
name of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation, however he admitted there were
many offices in the property no. 3499 Chawri Bazar, Delhi. He made
enquiries from one or two persons but did not record their names. He further
stated that he only visited the place which was mentioned in the file i.e. 3499
Chawri Bazar and the persons who met him stated that no firm of the name
of Supreme Trading Corporation existed in the said premises. PW2 Lalit
Chawla who was running a shop of electrical works at 3499 Chawri Bazar
stated that there was no firm in the name of M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation at shop No. 3499 Chawri Bazar for the last 20 years. The
statement of this witness was as if 3499 was the number of shop at Chawri
Bazar and no other shop existed in the said premises. This witness in his
cross-examination admitted that 3499 was the municipal number of a
building and in the said building besides his shop, there were several other
shops and offices. He further admitted that he did not know all the persons,
who were doing business in the said building. He did not even know
personally the firms which were working in the said building. He further
admitted that if some firm does not put its hoarding, he would not be aware
of the firm. Thus, this witness was not aware of all the occupants of the
building and his testimony could not have proved beyond reasonable doubt
that the firm of Appellant Anil Maheshwari did not exist at the given
address. The evidence of PW3 Sushant Rastogi is worse than PW2. He was CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 52 of 70 running a business of electrical goods at shop number 3495. He stated that
shop no. 3495 was his shop alone and there was no other shop or
establishment at shop no. 3495. This witness did not know whether there
was only one shop at 3499 or number of shops. He did not even know
whether the municipal no. 3499 was given to a building which had many
shops and offices. Thus, the testimony of PW3 is of no avail to the
prosecution. The testimonies of PW1 and PW2 do not prove beyond
reasonable doubt that M/s Supreme Trading Corporation did not exist at
3499, Chawri Bazar as the two did not know all the occupants of the
buildings. The prosecution did not make any effort to find out the existence
of shop from the telephone department which could have given an authentic
and documentary verification. Further PW1 admitted that they could locate
Supreme Trading Corporation at 1716, Gali Piao Wali, Dariba, Delhi which
address was mentioned in the bank statement of Supreme Trading
Corporation. In the light of this evidence, it cannot be said that the
prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that M/s Supreme Trading
Corporation was a non-existent firm. 24. Learned Trial Court has drawn an inference of fraudulent mind of
Appellant Anil Maheshwari on the basis that he had given different
addresses in the insurance policy, railway receipt and the Corporation bank
and the burden to show that Supreme Trading Corporation existed at the
given address was on the Appellant Anil Maheshwari under Section 106 of
the Evidence Act as the Appellant was having especial and specific
knowledge of all valid documents pertaining to Supreme Trading
Corporation but the defence has failed to do it. The three addresses CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 53 of 70 mentioned on the three documents i.e. in the insurance policy, corporation
bank and railway receipt were all part of record of the insurance company as
they formed part of the claim file. The insurance company was aware as to
in which account of corporation bank the claim cheque of Rs. 4,58,000/- was
deposited. It was also aware of the two addresses given in the railway
receipt and the insurance policy. No effort was made by either the vigilance
officers of the NIC or the investigating officer to verify these addresses from
the various documents i.e. the bank account and the telephone numbers
whether M/s Supreme Trading Corporation existed or not. The telephone
number was mentioned on the letter heads used for correspondence. Thus
ignoring all these documentary evidence which could have proved the
existence of M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation, the prosecution choose to
rely on two witnesses who were not fully aware of the persons running their
firms and establishments in building no. 3499 Chawri Bazar. Since all the
addresses, phone number and account number were available with the
vigilance department of NIC and with the investigating officer also, the
learned Trial Court erroneously shifted the burden on the accused under Section 106 Evidence Act holding that the same were in the especial and
specific knowledge of the Appellant Anil Maheshwari and he has failed to
prove the same. Section 101 Evidence Act is the fundamental principle of
evidence that a party who asserts existence of certain facts must prove that
those facts exists. It is only in a case where the party has no means to prove
or to find out the facts that the burden shifts to the other party under Section
106 Evidence Act which is an exception to Section 101 Evidence Act. The
learned Trial Court failed to even notice this fundamental principle of law.
Further PW1 admitted that they were able to locate M/s. Supreme Trading CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 54 of 70 Corporation at Gali Piao Wali and thus the findings of the learned Trial
Court that M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation was a non-existent firm, the
Appellant had fraudulent intention as he gave different addresses and burden
was on the Appellant Anil Maheshwari under Section 106 Evidence Act are
wholly erroneous. In Shambhu Nath Mehra Vs. State of Ajmer 1956 SCR
199 their Lordships while dealing with Section 106 Evidence Act held that
the word ‗especially' stresses the facts that are pre-eminently or
exceptionally within the knowledge of the accused. It was held: Illustration (a) says - This lays down the general rule that in a criminal case the
 burden of proof is on the prosecution and section 106 is
 certainly not intended to relieve it of that duty. On the contrary,
 it is designed to meet certain exceptional cases in which it
 would be impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult,
 for the prosecution to establish facts which are "especially"
 within the knowledge of the accused and which he could prove
 without difficulty or inconvenience. The word "especially"
 stresses that. It means facts that are pre-eminently or
 exceptionally within his knowledge. If the section were to be
 interpreted otherwise, it would lead to the very startling
 conclusion that in a murder case the burden lies on the accused
 to prove that he did not commit the murder because who could
 know better than he whether he did or did not. It is evident that
 that cannot be the intention and the Privy Council has twice CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 55 of 70 refused to construe this section, as reproduced in certain other
 Acts outside India, to mean that the burden lies on an accused
 person to show that he did not commit the crime for which he is
 tried. These cases are Attygalle v. Emperor A.I.R. 1936 P.C.
 169 and Seneviratne v. R. [1936] 3 All E.R. 36, 49. Illustration (b) to section 106 has obvious reference to a
 very special type of case, namely to offences under sections 112 and 113 of the Indian Railways Act for travelling or attempting
 to travel without a pass or ticket or with an insufficient pass,
 etc. Now if a passenger is seen in a railway carriage, or at the
 ticket barrier, and is unable to produce a ticket or explain his
 presence, it would obviously be impossible in most cases for
 the railway to prove, or even with due diligence to find out,
 where he came from and where he is going and whether or not
 he purchased a ticket. On the other hand, it would be
 comparatively simple for the passenger either to produce his
 pass or ticket or, in the case of loss or of some other valid
 explanation, to set it out; and so far as proof is concerned, it
 would be easier for him to prove the substance of his
 explanation than for the State to establish its falsity. We recognise that an illustration does not exhaust the full
 content of the section which it illustrates but equally it can
 neither curtail nor expand its ambit; and if knowledge of certain
 facts is as much available to the prosecution, should it choose to
 exercise due diligence, as to the accused, the facts cannot be
 said to be "especially" within the knowledge of the accused.
 This is a section which must be considered in a commonsense
 way; and the balance of convenience and the disproportion of
 the labour that would be involved in finding out and proving
 certain facts balanced against the triviality of the issue at stake
 and the ease with which the accused could prove them, are all
 matters that must be taken into consideration. The section
 cannot be used to undermine the well established rule of law
 that, save in a very exceptional class of case, the burden is on
 the prosecution and never shifts.‖ CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 56 of 70 25. Learned counsel for CBI relies on Collector of Customs Madras &
Ors. Vs. Bhoormul AIR 1974 SC 859 to contend that the prosecution is not
required to prove its case with mathematical precision. There is no doubt
about it. Proof beyond reasonable doubt does not mean absolute proof. All
that is required is the establishment of such a degree of probability that a
prudent man may, on its basis, believe in the existence of the fact in issue.
In the said case the Court was considering the standard of proof in an
adjudication proceedings in a smuggling case. It was held that smuggling
being clandestine conveying of goods to avoid legal duties, secrecy and
stealth being its facts, it was impossible for the preventive Department to
unravel every link of the process. The Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated the
legal position that facts especially in the knowledge of the accused are
required to be proved by him. As noted above in the present case the
prosecution case itself is that it was able to locate M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation at Gali Piou Wali and thus it could not be said to be a non-
existent company. 26. In the finding in sub-para no. xvii of Para 191 the Learned Trial Court,
noted that though vide letter Ex. DW2/DX5, 10 documents were asked for,
however on the basis of 8 documents as mentioned in Ex. DW3/D1 the claim
was passed and no reasons were mentioned as to why the other documents
were dispensed with. Learned Trial Court does not specify which two
documents were missing. The only inference that can be drawn from the
other findings of the learned Trial court are that the two documents missing
were the Railway Receipt and the non-delivery certificate. As discussed
above, there is no material on record to prove that the claim was passed in CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 57 of 70 the absence of these two material documents. Rather it is clear from the
evidence on record that the railway receipt and non-delivery certificate were
duly submitted by Anil Maheshwari and considered by Appellants Rajesh
Kohli and Vinod Kumar Bhutani before passing the claim. Faced with a
situation that the non-existence of the Railway Receipt and the non-delivery
certificate had not been proved, learned counsel for the CBI points out that
besides the railway receipt and the non-delivery certificate, document no. 3
i.e. letter of authority from the consignee in favour of the claimant duly
attested by railway authorities is missing from the record. However, this is
not the case of the prosecution. In this regard, PW7 Amiya Kumar, Chief
Manager, National Insurance Company appeared in the witness box.
According to him in the eventuality of missing of entire consignment, non-
delivery certificate is required and in case of theft copy of FIR is also
required. Further railway receipt, lorry receipt and goods receipt in original
in case of non-delivery is also required. Proof of having lodged monetary
claim on the carrier is also required. After loss assessment, claimant submits
the bill to the company which is known as claim bill. Prior to the settlement
of the claim a special power of attorney and a letter of subrogation in favour
of NIC is to be submitted by the complainant. In his cross-examination, this
witness after going through the claim file of Supreme Trading Corporation
Ex. PW1/C admitted that there was a letter of Supreme Trading Corporation
showing that claimant had submitted original railway receipt along with
other documents. As per the claim note Ex.PW3/D1 railway receipt number,
date and non-delivery certificate were duly mentioned and these documents
were ticked. In cross-examination this witness further stated that certificate
of compliance of Section 64(5)(b) of Insurance Act was not on file though CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 58 of 70 the same was mentioned in the claim note at column no. 19 stating that Section 64(5)(b) had been complied with. It is thus evident that from the
evidence of the witnesses all necessary formalities were complied with at the
time when the claim was passed and for the relevant documents being
subsequently not there on record, the liability cannot be fastened on the
Appellants because the prosecution has failed to prove that after the
Appellant Vinod Kumar Bhutani and Rajesh Kohli dealt with the file, the
same was kept in sealed condition and not tampered with by other persons.
PW1 A.K. Seth and PW4 A.K. Tiwari admitted that when the vigilance
investigation of these claims were done, Appellant Rajesh Kohli was outside
the country, the files were stored in the premises of division office - X and
when files were seized, neither any receipt nor seizure memo was prepared.
As a matter of fact, the claim file has changed number of hands and the
documents were sent to number of places for verification which have been
admitted by the prosecution witnesses. Further PW20 Inspector Jyoti Kumar
the investigating officer admitted that vide Ex.PW9/A, claim file Ex.PW1/C
of Supreme Trading Corporation was seized with 28 documents and in the
Court there were only 26 documents in the file. Thus the relevant documents
not being available on the claim file during investigation or during trial
would not fasten the liability on the Appellants Rajesh Kohli and Vinod
Kumar Bhutani and hold them guilty of misconduct of passing the claim in
the absence of material documents. 27. Findings of the learned Trial Court in sub-para Nos. ii, iv, v, vi, xi and
xix of Para 191 are not incriminating in nature, as the same relate to the
appointment of M/s. Pooja International as the tracer, the bill of Rs. 2,763/- raised for preparing the tracer's report and passed by Appellant Rajesh
Kumar Kohli. Though finding in sub para nos. xx and xxi are inculpatory
against the Appellants Arvind Kumar Sharma and Vijay Juneja, however the
prosecution cannot be said to have proved its case beyond reasonable doubt
on that basis. It is the case of the prosecution itself that M/s. Pooja
International was an authorized tracer of the NIC. PW1 A.K. Seth admitted
in his cross-examination that Rajesh Kohli committed no breach of any rule
of the company in appointing M/s. Pooja International as tracer. Thus, once
an authorized agent was appointed as a tracer and a tracer's report was filed,
which Appellant Rajesh Kohli had no means to find out to be false, no
illegality or misconduct can be attributed in clearing the bill for payment of
Rs. 2763/- in favour of M/s. Pooja International for preparing the tracer's
report. 28. The tracer's report Ex.PW/DC has been proved by the prosecution to
be a false report. As per the report, the representatives of M/s. Pooja
International visited the New Delhi Railway's parcels office/ record room
and met Shri Shobraj who after going through the record regarding RR No.
645451 dated 13th December, 1997 told their representative that this
consignment was sent through train no. 2626 SLR 45680 on 14.12.97 and
the wagon had 287 cases for Nagpur, Vijaywada, Salem, Erode stations.
Thus the employees of M/s. Pooja International tracked train no. 2626 SLR
45680 and they were informed that from the said train they unloaded 43
cases at Nagpur station, however consignment with RR No. 645451 was not
unloaded at Nagpur station. At Vijaywada SLR No. 45680 reached the outer
yard and the wagon was stranded for three days for repair, where after the CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 60 of 70 consignments therein were shifted to wagon no. SR 11079 in train no. 6318
on 28th February, 1997. Further enquiry at Salem station revealed that no
consignment was unloaded at the said station with the said RR number.
From Erode station it was revealed that no consignment relating to RR No.
645451 was received. Hence, in view thereof the tracer did not go to the
Ernakulam station and opined that the carrier failed to deliver the full
consignment at destination, the insured had suffered a loss and the claim of
the insured seems to be genuine. The learned Trial Court held against the
Appellants the fact that the tracer did not go to Ernakulum station and
terminated his enquiry at Erode station. The finding is also erroneous. It
was common sense on the part of the tracer not to go to Ernakulum station
for enquiry as the goods had not reached even at Erode station. It was thus
logical they could not have been sent to the next station. 29. The prosecution has examined PW12 Shri Suraj Prakash working as
Head Parcel in New Delhi Main Railway Station, Old Delhi. As per PW12
vide Railway Receipt No. 645451 dated 13th December, 1997 goods from
City Booking Agency, Barafkhana Chowk, Delhi were booked as per
summary of railway receipt Ex.PW10/A dated 23rd December, 1997. From
these documents he could say that four packets of hardware goods booked
for Ernakulam destination were received on 24th December, 1997 and were
dispatched by their parcel office on 26th December, 1997 in wagon no. SE
80878 in the lot of 302 packets by the parcel clerk to the Parcel Office,
Madras Railway Station. He further stated that they got no intimation
whether the goods were delivered or not at the destination in the railway
receipt and the said information can be received from their destination office CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 61 of 70 i.e. the Parcel Office of Madras Railway station. It is thus apparent that as
per the tracer's report the goods were sent by train no. 2626 SLR 45680 on
14th December, 1997 whereas they were actually sent from Delhi on 26 th
December, 1997 vide wagon no. SE 80878. 30. Learned counsels for Arvind Kumar Sharma and Vijay Kumar Juneja
the employer and employee of M/s. Pooja International have an explanation
in this regard. Their case is that they do not have any statutory backing and
when they go to these Government offices like the railway department to
verify the facts, no documents are given and they have to rely upon what is
told by the officer concerned. I find force in the argument of the learned
counsel for the Appellant. The tracers are more or less like private detective
agents who when go for verification are required to seek information not by
statutory means but by making request to the railway officers concerned for
whom this would be a least priority work. Further, the railway officers are
under no legal obligation to check all the records and give correct
information to the tracers. This is evident from the tracer's report
Ex.PW/DC. The representative of M/s. Pooja International, who visited
New Delhi Railway Station parcels office, met one Shri Shobraj who after
going through the records, gave the information to the representative of
Pooja International on the basis of which they further tracked the movement
of the goods. Thus, if the information regarding the date of dispatch, the
train number and the wagon number in which they were dispatched was
incorrect, the same would lead to a total incorrect report as all subsequent
details would also be incorrect. Further Vijay Kumar Juneja, who is an
employee of Arvind Kumar Sharma, has been made an accused because he CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 62 of 70 has signed the report. He does not deny the signatures on the report but his
case is that he did not personally visit these places and the enquiry was
conducted by other colleagues working in M/s Pooja International who
visited these places and on the basis of verification done by them, this final
report was prepared. Vijay Kumar Juneja thus had no personal knowledge
about the facts, as is even evident from the tracer's report itself. Similar is
the situation of Arvind Kumar Sharma who is the employer, whose
employees went and enquired into the matter. It is not the case of
prosecution that Arvind Kumar Sharma or Vijay Kumar Juneja charged
money which was disproportionate to their claim for preparing a tracer's
report or they were not entitled to claim the TA/DA bills or the amount of
Rs. 2763/- for preparing the report. Thus, I find no merit in the learned Trial
Court drawing an adverse inference in its finding arrived at in this regard. 31. Further even by proving the tracer's report to be false, the prosecution
has not been able to prove the charges beyond reasonable doubt against the
Appellants. To prove an offence of forgery under Sections 464 and 468 IPC, it is essential to prove that the document was false to the knowledge of
the accused. In the present case, the tracer's report was prepared on the basis
of inputs by third party. It has not been proved by the prosecution that the
Appellants Arvind Kumar Sharma and Vijay Juneja had the knowledge that
the details given by their colleagues and mentioned in the report were false,
so that the same could attribute a fraudulent intention to them. Section 464 IPC defines a false document. As per illustration (d) to Explanation 1 to Section 464 IPC a false recital in a document amounts to making a false
document. Section 468 IPC punishes forgery for the purpose of cheating. One of the essential ingredients of Section 468 IPC is intention. Thus the act
of preparing a false document must be committed with an intention to cheat.
Intention to cheat presupposes the knowledge to the accused that the
document was false. In A.S. Krishnan & Anr.. v. State of Kerala , AIR 2004
SC 3229, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while discussing ―knowledge‖ held
that ―knowledge‖ is an awareness on the part of the person concerned
indicating his state of mind. A person can be supposed to know where there
is a direct appeal to his senses and a person is presumed to have a reason to
believe if he has sufficient cause to believe the same. In substance, what it
means is that a person must have reason to believe if the circumstances are
such that a reasonable man would, by probable reasoning conclude or infer
regarding the nature of the thing concerned. Such circumstances need not
necessarily be capable of absolute conviction or inference; but it is sufficient
if the circumstances are such creating a cause to believe by chain of probable
reasoning leading to the conclusion or inference about the nature of the
thing. These two requirements i.e. ―knowledge‖ and ―reason to believe‖
have to be deduced from various circumstances in the case. 32. It is not the case of prosecution that the tracer was required to obtain
documentary proof and supplement its report with the same, as per the
manual prescribed. As noted above the tracer's report is like a report of
private detective agent who has no statutory back to procure the document.
This case calls for a serious introspection by the National Insurance
Company to reconsider its guidelines in seeking tracer's report. There
should be some inhouse mechanism for proper verification of facts. 33. Regarding findings in sub-para nos. vii, ix, xiii and xxiii of Para 191
that M/s. Rajan Enterprises was a non-existent firm, it may be noted that the
only witness examined by the prosecution in this regard is PW15, who stated
that in the year 1999, he was posted at Kochi Regional Office of the NIC as
Assistant Manager and on 13th April, 1999 he received a letter from Delhi
office for verification of address of M/s. Rajan Enterprises and he submitted
his report already exhibited as Ex.PW1/E. As per this report, PW15 has
stated that he made enquiries about the said firm at the relevant post office
and with similar trade people from the market, however nobody could
identify the above firm. The door number given is false. There was no such
Bazaar in Ernakulam City. There were a number of post offices and the
address given was only Opposite Post Office, no pin code and telephone
number was furnished. Further this witness in his report and in his cross-
examination admitted that it was very difficult to locate the address without
the name of the street, door number, pin code number and telephone number.
It is thus evident that he could not locate the address for want of complete
address. Further Inspector M. Shahjahan, the investigating officer of Kochi
region of CBI, who conducted the investigation at Kochi, has not been
examined as a witness. The learned Trial Court has relied on Ex.PW22/R a
notice under Section 160 Cr.P.C. sent to proprietor of M/s Rajan Enterprises
through registered post. The said registered post as per the prosecution is
stated to note ‗no such firm in my beat'. A perusal of the envelop shows that
Ernakulam has been scored off and it is written thereon ‗Try Kochi-31'. No
such effort has been made. It is not even the case of the prosecution that the
goods which were dispatched from Delhi by M/s. Supreme Trading
Corporation were received at Ernakulam and thus insurance on a false claim CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 65 of 70 was taken. Thus, even if assuming that the prosecution could not trace M/s.
Rajan Enterprises, the same is immaterial because it is not the case of the
prosecution that the goods had reached Ernakulam station. 34. Learned Trial Court has held in its finding in sub-para xv that the
claim file Ex. PW1/C contains false and fabricated documents produced by
the insured Anil Maheshwari and the tracer M/s. Pooja International. These
documents were admittedly processed by accused Rajesh Kohli and Vinod
Kumar Bhutani when the claim was passed by them flouting all norms listed
in the manual Ex.DW1/A. Nothing has been noted by the learned Trial
Court as to which norm enlisted in the manual Ex.DW1/A was flouted. As
noted above, the railway receipt and the non-delivery certificates have
neither been proved to be missing nor forged documents, rather railway
receipt was found to be genuine and the goods were found to be dispatched.
As regards tracer's report, the same was not obtained by Appellant Anil
Maheshwari but was asked for by Appellant Rajesh Kohli in his official
capacity as per the procedure prescribed. Further none of the prosecution
witnesses have stated as to which portion of the manual Ex.DW1/A has been
flouted. The witnesses have rather stated that no norm or rule of the
company was breached while issuing the policy or passing the claim. The
finding of the learned Trial Court is de-hors evidence, without reasoning and
is thus perverse. 35. Learned Trial Court in its finding in sub-para xvi held that Ex.
DW3/D1 was the note to Divisional manager vide which the claim was
recommended to be settled by the accused V.K. Bhutani and approved by
accused Rajesh Kohli. It held that a bare perusal of this note shows how the CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 66 of 70 norms were deliberately flouted to benefit the insured. This Court has
perused the note to the Divisional Manager. From the perusal of the note it
is not evident as to which norms have been deliberately flouted, neither are
they spelt out in the impugned judgment. 36. Learned Trial Court in its finding in sub-para xviii held that the claim
form available in the claim file, filed by the Supreme Trading Corporation,
bears the date of 10th March, 1998 whereas the letter dated 12th March, 1998
which is Ex. DW 2/DX-5 has enclosed the claim form to be completed by
the insured. According to the learned Trial Court it was not possible to have
filed the claim form on 10th March, 1998 i.e. prior to the letter dated 12th
March, 1998 by NIC. The learned Trial Court failed to notice that in the
claim file Ex.PW1/C before the letter dated 12th March, 1998 was sent, a
letter was sent by NIC to M/s. Supreme Trading Corporation on 26th
February, 1998 asking it to give the information i.e. copy of invoice, copy of
railway receipt, non-delivery certificate in original, claim form duly filled in
by the claimant, claim form enclosed and claim bill to the NIC. This
document was exhibited as Ex.DW2/DxX. In response to this letter M/s.
Supreme Trading Corporation vide its letter on 11th March, 1998 Ex.DW
2/DX-7 sent the original RR claim bill, claim form, invoice, consignee letter,
original letter etc. This letter along with the documents was received at NIC
on 19th March, 1998 when in between another letter was sent by the NIC on
12th March, 1998. Thus, the finding that though the letter by NIC was sent
on 12th March, 1998, however the letters of the Supreme Trading were dated
10th and 11th March, 1998 i.e. prior to the calling of the documents by NIC is
wholly erroneous and arrived at by looking into incomplete documents. Thus, no malafide intention can be attributed in sending the documents by
Supreme Trading Corporation even prior to the letter dated 12 th March, 1998
Ex. DW 2/DX-5. 37. For an offence punishable under Section 420 IPC there must be
deception coupled with dishonest or fraudulent inducement to part with the
property. Learned Trial Court failed to deal with the issue that admittedly
even as per the prosecution case the consignment was sent from Delhi and
there was no evidence on record that the same was received at Ernakulam or
some other place by the Appellant Anil Maheshwari or someone on his
behalf , thus it could not be stated that the claim of Appellant Anil
Maheshwari was a false claim and the charge of Section 420 IPC has thus
not been proved by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt against him.
The decisions relied upon by the learned Special Judge have no application
to the facts of the present case. In Kuldip Sharma and Anr. V. State , 2000
CrLJ 1272 (Delhi) payments were taken from the Governemnt of India on
the strength of bogus railway receipts. In Ram Prakash Singh v. State of
Bihar , AIR 1998 SC 296 there was a false and fake insurance proposal. In
the present case, it is the case of prosecution itself that goods were
dispatched vide RR 646451 thus neither the RR was forged nor the claim
was false. Appellant Anil Maheshwari has also been convicted for using
bogus, false and forged document for offence under Section 471 IPC. As
discussed above, the RR and the non-delivery certificate were not proved to
be forged documents. Hence offence under Section 471 IPC has not been
proved against him. 38. No doubt conspiracy is seldom an open affair and mostly required to
be proved by circumstantial evidence. Usually both existence of the
conspiracy and its objects have to be inferred from the circumstances and the
conduct of the accused. The well known rule governing circumstantial
evidence is that each and every incriminating circumstance must be clearly
established by reliable evidence. Thus, each incriminating circumstance has
to be proved beyond reasonable doubt and thereafter the circumstances so
proved must form a chain of events from which the only irresistible
conclusion about the guilt of the accused can be safely drawn and no other
hypothesis against the guilt is possible. The Court should not allow
suspicion to take the place of legal proof. [ State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot
Sandhu , 2005 (110 SCC 600]. In the present case, it may be thus noted that
incriminating circumstances have not been proved beyond reasonable doubt.
The circumstances which have been proved do not form a chain of events
which lead to the only irresistible conclusion that the Appellants are guilty of
committing the offence of conspiracy. In Firozuddin (supra) relied by
learned counsel for CBI, reliance was placed on Regina Vs. Murphy (173
Eng. Reports 508). J. Coleridge while summing up for the jury summed up
the law of conspiracy but added a word of caution. It was laid down that to
draw an inference of conspiracy, the relative acts or conduct of the parties
must be conscientious and clear to mark their concurrence as to what should
be done. The concurrence cannot be inferred by a group of irrelevant facts
artfully arranged so as to give an appearance of coherence. The innocuous,
innocent or inadvertent errors and incidents should not enter the judicial
verdict. 39. On the basis of aforesaid discussion it is clearly evident that the
prosecution has failed to prove the substantive charges and charges with the
aid of Section 120B IPC against the Appellants. Hence they are acquitted of
the charges framed. The Appellants, who are in custody, be released
forthwith if not wanted in any other case. Appeals are disposed of
accordingly. Consequently, the bail applications have become infructuous
and are disposed of as such. (MUKTA GUPTA)
MAY 28, 2013
'ga' CRL.A.Nos. 1455/2012 & conn. Matters Page 70 of 70