Deputy Commissioner (South District)&
 Public Information Officer under RTI
 Act 2005,
 Govt. of NCT of Delhi,
 Deputy Commissioner of Police,
 South Distt. 1st Floor, DCP office Complex,
 Hauz khas, New Delhi

Respondent 2 : Lt. Governor &
 First Appellate Authority under RTI Act 2005,
 Govt. of NCT of Delhi,
 Lt. Governor's Delhi Secretariat,
 Raj Niwas, Delhi - 110054

RTI filed on : 19/12/2007
PIO replied : 24/12/2007
First appeal filed on : 15/02/2008
First Appellate Authority order : Not received. The Appellant had filed an application It does not relate to this district.
 seeking information regarding complaints
 against irregularity, exploitation and scam
 of Manushi Rights Association and
 Manushi Trust on By Diary no. 5368-I of
 29/7/2007:. 1. What action has been taken by the Delhi
 Police regarding the complaints of LG,
 MCD office? 2. Were the complaints false? It does not relate to this district. 3. How many complaints were correct? It does not relate to this district. 4. How many complaints have been Total 16 complaints have been received at
 received against the Manushi PS K.M. Pur in this regard. However, the
 Sangathan, human Trust, and Human other details cannot be provided to you as
 Right Association? the disclosure of the same is exempted
 under the provision of Section 8(1) (e) & (g) of the RTI Act, 05. 5. How & when we can meet Dy. It does not relate to this district. Governer of Delhi on irregularity of
 Manushi Right Front employees'
 complaints filed by stall owner for the
 Sewa Nagar Pilot project? 6. Does the Dy. Governer can spare some It does not relate to this district. time from his schedule for the
 inspection of this project for the 159
 shopkeeper's? 7. Please give the names of the officers The Manushi Project is the subject matter
 who do their work with the co- of MCD. The local police have no role to
 ordination with MCD and Delhi Police. play in the project as far as coordination is
 concerned. 8. Are the officers doing their work As above. impartially with the Manushi
 Sangathan regarding the project? The First Appellate Authority Order :