% 03.01.2024

 I.A. 15564/2021(under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC )

 The Dispute

 The plaintiff's grievance 1. Puma SE, the plaintiff, is one of the world's leading
 manufacturers of sportswear and accessories. It uses the distinctive

 and logos, which are its source identifiers. "PUMA" as a
 word mark is registered in the name of the plaintiff in Classes 18 and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 1 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 25 with effect from 15 February 1977; the device mark is
 registered in Classes 3, 9, 14, 16, 18, 24, 25, 28 and 41, the earliest
 registration being of 8 November 1983 in Class 28, and the device
 mark is registered in the name of the plaintiff in Class 25 with effect
 from 11 July 1983. All registrations are valid and subsisting. The

 sales figures, from sales of goods bearing the and marks
 are testimony to their enduring goodwill and reputation, with sales
 during the year 2019 alone having fetched over ₹ 1400 crores. The
 plaintiff has spent, in the said year alone, over ₹ 64 crores towards
 advertisement and promotion of its brands. The plaintiff's trademark
 PUMA has been declared as a well-known trademark by the Trade
 Marks Registry on 24 February 2020. 2. The defendant IndiaMART IndiaMESH Ltd ("IIL" hereinafter)
 operates the website www.indiamart.com. Merchandise of various
 manufacturers are purchasable from the said website. The website
 allows a consumer to enter a search option in the space provided for
 the purpose. 3. The plaintiff's grievance, as articulated by Mr. Ranjan Narula,
 learned Counsel, is that, if one enters, in the said space, the search
 word "PUMA", various counterfeit goods, bearing fake "Puma"
 marks, put up by third-party sellers, are displayed for purchase. These

 goods also bear the plaintiff's registered trademarks and .
 The following screenshots, bearing this out, have been provided in the
 plaint: 4. The dispute is in a narrow compass. Mr. Narula submits that
 most of the goods which are put up by various sellers as genuine
 PUMA sportswear or allied products are in fact counterfeits. IIL's
 Indiamart e-commerce website is, therefore, being used to peddle
 counterfeit goods of the plaintiff. The use of the plaintiff's registered
 trademarks on such counterfeit goods, he submits, amounts to
 infringement within the meaning of Section 29 of the Trade Marks
 Act, 1999. By using the said marks, the goods on which they are
 used, and which are sold on the Indiamart e-commerce platform are
 also, therefore, being passed off as genuine goods of the plaintiff. 5. The plaintiff's grievance against IIL - which is the sole
 defendant in the suit - is that IIL is aiding, abetting and facilitating
 such infringement and passing off. It is an admitted position that, if a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 6 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 seller - let us call him Mr. X - wants to sell his merchandise through
 the Indiamart e-commerce platform, he has to register on the
 www.indiamart.com website. For this, Mr. X has to provide, first, his
 contact mobile number. Once this is provided, a One Time Password
 (OTP) is sent to the said mobile number. Mr. X has to enter the OTP
 in the space provided and to click the "Register" link. Registration is
 free. Once the link is clicked, Mr. X has to provide his name,
 company name and contact details including address and mobile
 numbers. Thereafter, he has to provide his GST/PAN number and
 photographs of the products that he desires to sell through the
 Indiamart portal. Once this is entered, Mr. X is redirected to another
 Indiamart webpage, which is the proverbial thorn in the plaintiff's
 flesh. On this webpage, Mr. X has to provide the nature of the
 products that he desires to sell and a choice of the brand name under
 which the product would be sold, from various brand names which are
 made available in a drop down menu. A screenshot of one such
 webpage is thus provided by the plaintiff: 6. Which, submits Mr. Narula, would have been perfectly fine,
 except that Mr. X's shoes are counterfeits. 7. IIL, alleges Mr. Narula, does no prior verification before
 accepting a seller, registered on its website, as peddling the goods of a
 particular reputed brand. The result is that IIL's Indiamart platform is
 used as a means to peddle counterfeit goods, in the bargain defrauding
 customers, infringing the plaintiff's registered trademarks and passing
 off the counterfeit goods as the goods of the plaintiff. By not
 conducting any verification of the seller's credentials, and by
 providing "Puma shoes" as a drop down option which the seller can
 choose while registering himself as a dealer in a particular product or
 product range, it is alleged that IIL is facilitating infringement and
 passing off by sale of counterfeit products. This, he alleges, amounts
 to aiding and abetting infringement and passing off. Additionally, by
 failing to observe due diligence while registering the seller as a dealer
 of goods bearing a particular brand, Indiamart, it is alleged, is also in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 8 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 breach of Rule 3(1)(b)(iv)1 of the Information Technology
 (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021
 ("the IT Rules"). 8. Mr. Narula acknowledges that, whenever the plaintiff has come
 across such infringing product listings and has informed Indiamart
 accordingly, Indiamart has immediately taken down said listings.
 However, he submits that, owing to the facility, available on
 Indiamart's webpage, to put up counterfeit products by representing
 them to be genuine, with no verification at Indiamart's end, fresh
 counterfeit listings spring up almost immediately. 9. Indiamart, submits Mr. Narula, collects payment against the
 merchandise ordered by buyers and is, therefore, directly involved in
 the infringing activities. It is not, therefore, akin to a simple directory
 which lists services, but is a key player in arranging sale of products.
 The actual seller leaves no footprint except his mobile number. Mr.
 Narula points out that the screen which requires the seller, at the time
 of registering, to provide his GST/PAN number, also has an option "I
 don't have it", thereby indicating that providing of the GST or PAN
 number is also not mandatory. In these circumstances, Mr. Narula

 1 3. (1) Due diligence by an intermediary: An intermediary, including a social media intermediary, a
 significant social media intermediary and an online gaming intermediary for, shall observe the following due
 diligence while discharging its duties, namely:-- ***** Signature Not Verified (iv) infringes any patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights; Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 9 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 submits that IIL cannot seek to get away by claiming that it merely
 created an algorithm, and was not responsible for the manner in which
 the algorithm operates. 10. Mr. Narula submits that, in these circumstances, IIL cannot
 claim "safe harbour" under Section 792 of the Information Technology
 Act, 2000 ("the IT Act "). 11. Rather, submits Mr. Narula, the facts of the case directly attract Section 2(2)(b) and (c)(ii)3 and sub-sections (1), (2), (4)(c), (6), (7)
 and (8)4 of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act. 2 79. Exemption from liability of intermediary in certain cases. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force but subject to
 the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party
 information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by him.
 (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply if - (a) the function of the intermediary is limited to providing access to a
 communication system over which information made available by third parties is
 transmitted or temporarily stored or hosted; or (b) the intermediary does not - Act and also observes such other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe in
 this behalf. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply if - (a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced, whether by
 threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of the unlawful act; (b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being notified by the appropriate
 Government or its agency that any information, data or communication link residing in or
 connected to a computer resource controlled by the intermediary is being used to commit
 the unlawful act, the intermediary fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to that
 material on that resource without vitiating the evidence in any manner.
 Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the expression "third party information" means any
 information dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary.
 3 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference-- ***** (b) to the use of a mark shall be construed as a reference to the use of printed or other visual
 representation of the mark; as or as part of any statement about the availability, provision or performance of such
 services; 4 29. 12. In support of his submissions, Mr. Narula places reliance on the
 judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Kapil Wadhwa v.
 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd5 and of this Bench in Snapdeal Pvt Ltd
 v. Godaddycom LLC6 , as well as paras 77 to 79, 81 and 115 of DRS

 (1) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a registered proprietor or
 a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of trade, a mark which is identical with,
 or deceptively similar to, the trade mark in relation to goods or services in respect of which the
 trade mark is registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be taken as
 being used as a trade mark. (2) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a registered proprietor or
 a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of trade, a mark which because of-- (a) its identity with the registered trade mark and the similarity of the goods or
 services covered by such registered trade mark; or (b) its similarity to the registered trade mark and the identity or similarity of the
 goods or services covered by such registered trade mark; or (c) its identity with the registered trade mark and the identity of the goods or
 services covered by such registered trade mark,
 is likely to cause confusion on the part of the public, or which is likely to have an association with
 the registered trade mark. (3) In any case falling under clause (c) of sub-section (2), the court shall presume that it is
 likely to cause confusion on the part of the public.
 (4) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a registered proprietor or
 a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of trade, a mark which-- (a) is identical with or similar to the registered trade mark; and (b) is used in relation to goods or services which are not similar to those for which
 the trade mark is registered; and (c) the registered trade mark has a reputation in India and the use of the mark
 without due cause takes unfair advantage of or is detrimental to, the distinctive character
 or repute of the registered trade mark. (5) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person if he uses such registered trade mark, as
 his trade name or part of his trade name, or name of his business concern or part of the name, of his
 business concern dealing in goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
 (6) For the purposes of this section, a person uses a registered mark, if, in particular, he-- (a) affixes it to goods or the packaging thereof; (b) offers or exposes goods for sale, puts them on the market, or stocks them for
 those purposes under the registered trade mark, or offers or supplies services under the
 registered trade mark; to a material intended to be used for labelling or packaging goods, as a business paper, or for
 advertising goods or services, provided such person, when he applied the mark, knew or had reason
 to believe that the application of the mark was not duly authorised by the proprietor or a licensee.
 (8) A registered trade mark is infringed by any advertising of that trade mark if such
 advertising-- Logistics Pvt Ltd v. Google India Pvt Ltd7 and paras 25, 26, 31, 32,
 34, 43 and 45 of Makemytrip India Pvt Ltd v. Booking.com B.V. 8,
 both by coordinate Single Benches of this Court. These decisions, he
 submits, include, within the scope of infringement, even hidden use of
 the plaintiff's registered trade mark, as in, for example, meta tags. 13. The plaintiff has, therefore, instituted the present suit against
 Indiamart, seeking the following reliefs, which are pressed by Mr.
 Narula, apart from damages and costs: IIL's response 14. Arguing in response for IIL, Mr. Raj Shekhar Rao, learned
 Senior Counsel, submits that the present suit is a complete
 misadventure, and the plaintiff can have no sustainable grievance
 against his client - the sole defendant that it has chosen to implead.
 He draws attention to para 27 of the plaint, which sets out the cause of
 action on which it is based: The plaintiff's grievance is, therefore, that counterfeit goods of the
 plaintiff are being sold on the Indiamart platform. He submits that
 Indiamart is not responsible for the fact that the goods are counterfeit.
 In this context, he seeks to point out that the right to assert one's
 registered trademark and to seek remedy against its infringement, as
 conferred by Section 28(1) 9 , is not absolute, but is subject to other

 9 28. Rights conferred by registration. - (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the registration of a trade mark shall, if valid,
 give to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in
 relation to the goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief Signature Not Verified in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by this Act. Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 13 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 provisions of the Trade Marks Act , as is clear from the opening words
 of the provision. IIL, submits Mr. Rao, does not sell goods. It merely
 makes available space where another person can offer his goods for
 sale. By the present suit, he submits that the plaintiff, as the owner of
 the concerned brand, is trying to monopolise the channel of trade,
 which is impermissible. IIL is not the originator of the information
 relating to the goods put up for sale on its website. It is merely a
 space provider. He submits that IIL is willing to take down any
 listing, put up by a counterfeiter, on the fact being brought to its
 notice. 15. Mr. Rao also refers me to para 29 of the plaint: Thus, submits Mr. Rao, the entire plaint is predicated on the premise
 that IIL is facilitating counterfeiting activities. In fact, though the
 issue in controversy in the plaint is the availability, to IIL, of "safe
 harbour" under Section 79 of the IT Act, the plaint has been argued as
 an infringement suit, apropos Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act. Section 29 , he submits, would at best apply only to the person who
 selects the option "Puma" or "Puma shoes" from the drop down box,
 at the time of registration of his product on the Indiamart website. It
 is that person who is using "PUMA" as a trademark within the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 14 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 meaning of Section 29(1) ; not IIL. For the same reason, he submits
 that no other sub-section of Section 29 would apply either. 16. Mr. Rao also places reliance on Sections 30(1) and (2)10 of the Trade Marks Act . He submits that the use of the mark PUMA, by IIL,
 is only to identify the goods being sold as those of the plaintiff and
 that, therefore, such an act would not constitute infringement in view
 of Section 30(1) . 10 30. Limits on effect of registered trade mark. - (1) Nothing in Section 29 shall be construed as preventing the use of a registered trade mark
 by any person for the purposes of identifying goods or services as those of the proprietor provided
 the use - (a) is in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters, and (b) is not such as to take unfair advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive
 character or repute of the trade mark. (2) A registered trade mark is not infringed where-- (a) the use in relation to goods or services indicates the kind, quality, quantity,
 intended purpose, value, geographical origin, the time of production of goods or of
 rendering of services or other characteristics of goods or services; (b) a trade mark is registered subject to any conditions or limitations, the use of the
 trade mark in any manner in relation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in, in any
 place, or in relation to goods to be exported to any market or in relation to services for
 use or available or acceptance in any place or country outside India or in any other
 circumstances, to which, having regard to those conditions or limitations, the registration
 does not extend; proprietor or a registered user of the trade mark if, as to those goods or a bulk
 or which they form part, the registered proprietor or the registered user
 conforming to the permitted use has applied the trade mark and has not
 subsequently removed or obliterated it, or has at any time expressly or
 impliedly consented to the use of the trade mark; or (ii) in relation to services to which the proprietor of such mark or of a
 registered user conforming to the permitted use has applied the mark, where the
 purpose and effect of the use of the mark is to indicate, in accordance with the
 fact, that those services have been performed by the proprietor or a registered
 user of the mark; (d) the use of a trade mark by a person in relation to goods adapted to form part of,
 or to be accessory to, other goods or services in relation to which the trade mark has been
 used without infringement of the right given by registration under this Act or might for
 the time being be so used, if the use of the trade mark is reasonably necessary in order to
 indicate that the goods or services are so adapted, and neither the purpose nor the effect
 of the use of the trade mark is to indicate, otherwise than in accordance with the fact, a
 connection in the course of trade between any person and the goods or services, as the
 case may be; (e) the use of a registered trade mark, being one of two or more trade marks
 registered under this Act which are identical or nearly resemble each other, in exercise of
 the right to the use of that trade mark given by registration under this Act. 17. Mr. Rao refers me to the following clauses of the Terms and
 Conditions of Use of IIL's website, to which every seller who seeks to
 sell his merchandise or the website is required to consent and
 subscribe: "I. WEBSITE - MERELY A VENUE / PLATFORM

 The Web Site acts as a match-making platform for User(s)
 to negotiate and interact with other User(s) for entering into
 negotiations in respect thereof for sale or supply of goods
 or services. IIL or IndiaMart.com are not parties to any
 negotiations that take place between the User(s) of the Web
 Site and are further not parties to any agreement including
 an agreement for sale or supply of goods or services or
 otherwise, concluded between the User(s) of the Web Site. IIL does not control and is not liable in respect of or
 responsible for the quality, safety, genuineness, lawfulness
 or availability of the products or services offered for sale
 on the Web Site or the ability of the User(s) selling or
 supplying the goods or services to complete a sale or the
 ability of User(s) purchasing goods or services to complete
 a purchase. This agreement shall not be deemed to create
 any partnership, joint venture, or any other joint business
 relationship between IIL and any other party. II. SERVICES PROVIDED BY IIL

 IIL provides the following services to its Customers and
 their respective definitions are classified here under: - • "Leading Supplier": It gives the User(s)
 priority listing within categories of their choice as
 available on IndiaMART, thus increasing visibility
 of their products. • "Star Supplier": It is add-on service by
 IndiaMART which gives its User(s) priority listing
 in their chosen category of products. By availing
 this service the User(s) will get benefits of
 increased leads and enquiries. • "TrustSEAL": is a seal that User(s) gets
 after getting its business-related documents and
 information verified. • "Maximiser": User(s) availing this service
 could maximize its return on investment by availing
 the specialised feature of this package. • "Mini Dynamic Catalog": It is a
 professionally-designed catalog on IndiaMART
 along with independent control to add, delete, edit
 text and images as per requirement of customers. • "Verified" User(s): Users are said to be
 verified if any of their provided primary/secondary,
 mobile or email is verified by IIL. Some content displayed on the Web Site is provided or
 posted by third parties. User(s) can post their content on
 some of the sections/services of the Web Site using the
 self-help submit and edit tools made at the respective
 sections of the Web Site. User(s) may need to register
 and/or pay for using or availing some of these services. *****

 User(s) agree that they will not use IIL Content and/or IIL's
 Services to send junk mail, chain letters or spamming.
 Further, registered User(s) of the Web Site agree that they
 will not use the Email Account to publish, distribute,
 transmit or circulate any unsolicited advertising or
 promotional information. User(s) further hereby represent,
 warrant and agree (i) to host, display, upload, modify,
 publish, transmit, store, update or share; or (ii) submit to
 IIL for display on the Web Site or transmit or sought to be
 transmitted through IIL's Services any content, material or
 information that does not and shall at no point: 18. Mr. Rao submits that it is physically and practically impossible
 for IIL to monitor or control counterfeiting. In the facts of the present
 case, he submits that IIL is entitled to safe harbour under Section 79 of the IT Act - which commences with a non obstante clause and
 would, therefore, prevail over other statutory provisions - and relies,
 for this purpose, on paras 117, 121 and 122 of Shreya Singhal v.
 U.O.I.11 , para 28 of Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines
 (P) Ltd12 and paras 5 and 6 of the judgment of the Division Bench of
 this Court in Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines (P)
 Ltd . 19. Mr. Rao also invokes the doctrine of exhaustion. Where a
 rightful owner, distributor, or seller of goods bearing a registered

 11 (2015) 5 SCC 1
 12 (1994) 2 SCC 448 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 18 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 trademark purchases such goods, he submits that the right of the
 registrant of the trademark, to assert the trademark, stands exhausted
 and the purchaser is free, consequently, to sell the products. Any third
 party who seeks to advertise or sell the plaintiff's products on IIL's
 portal is, therefore, doing so legally and cannot be restrained. This
 aspect has necessarily to be borne in mind before restraining IIL from
 suggesting the plaintiff's name or mark PUMA to third parties for
 listing their products on IIL's portal. 20. Having admitted, in the plaint, that IIL is an intermediary, the
 plaintiff is, submits Mr. Rao, seeking, from IIL, something that the
 law does not require. The infringers, if any, are the persons who are
 selling counterfeit goods across IIL's platform. The plaintiff has not
 chosen to implead any such infringer, thereby rendering the suit bad
 for non-impleadment of necessary parties as well. The suit, therefore,
 in his submission, deserves summary dismissal under Order XIIIA of
 the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 as amended by the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015 . 21. DRS Logistics, submits Mr. Rao, involved use of the plaintiff's
 registered trade mark as an ad word on the Google Ad Words program
 without authority. By such use, traffic, and business, which was
 otherwise intended for the owner of the trademark, was diverted to the
 illegal user of the ad word. The following features, submits Mr. Rao,
 distinguish the facts of the present case from those which obtained in
 DRS Logistics: Plaintiff's submissions in rejoinder 22. Apropos the entitlement of IIL to safe harbour under Section 79 of the IT Act, Mr. Narula submits, in rejoinder, that an intermediary
 who provides value-added service is not entitled to the benefit of Section 79 . He relies, in this context, on paras 52, 82 and 83 of
 Snapdeal. The principles laid down in these paras, he submits,
 squarely apply, as IIL monetises its services beyond the "free listing" 23. Mr. Narula refutes Mr. Rao's contention that the plaint does not
 allege infringement and is only predicated on the non-availability, to
 IIL, of the protective shield of Section 79 of the IT Act. He submits
 that the plaint has to be read as a whole and that, in paras 3, 26, 30

 13 (2019) 260 DLT 690 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 21 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 and 34 of the plaint, the plaintiff has specifically asserted its
 trademark rights. These paras (to the extent relevant) read thus: Further, in paras 39 and 41 of the plaint, it is specifically asserted that
 IIL is making profits from its illegal activities. 24. Mr. Narula points out that, in para 17 of the written statement,
 IIL has admitted usage, by it, of the plaintiff's PUMA trade mark,
 thus: Mr. Narula submits that the defence sought to be set up by IIL in para
 17 of the written statement is meritless, as hidden use of the plaintiff's
 trademark also constitutes infringement. He relies, for the purpose, on
 DRS Logistics. 25. Mr. Narula also dismisses IIL's contention that it is not
 motivated by any expectation of profit. It is pointed out that IIL is
 misusing only popular brands, and not all. In fact, the goodwill and
 reputation that the plaintiff's registered trade marks have attained over
 a period of time have motivated IIL to misuse the said marks. Mr. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 24 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 Narula cites, in support of his submissions, paras 64 to 66 of the
 judgment of this bench in Snapdeal. Analysis 26. The following two issues arise for consideration: 27. On both the issues, the controversy is covered, to a large extent,
 by the recent judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in Google
 LLC v. DRS Logistics (P) Ltd.14 , by which the appeal preferred by
 Google against the judgment of the learned Single Judge in DRS
 Logistics was dismissed. 28. There are, however, certain features , in that case , which are not
 available in the present; likewise, there are certain features which are
 available in the present case which were not forthcoming in Google
 LLC. It would be beneficial to proceed through the said judgment ,
 para-wise, to identify the exact extent to which it covers the 14 Signature Not Verified2023 SCC OnLine Del 4809 Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 25 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 controversy at hand. The para numbers of Google LLC, as cited
 hereinafter, refer to the SCC OnLine report of the judgment. 29. Paras 1 to 27 of Google LLC

 29.1 Paras 1 to 27 of Google LLC identify the features of the Google
 Ads program which formed subject matter of dispute in that case . The
 Division Bench notes that the Google Ads program offered certain ad
 words which could be selected by persons who desired to join the
 program to advertise their goods or services. Such persons could
 select one of the ad words provided by Google against consideration.
 These ad words were often the brand names or trademarks of reputed
 manufacturers or providers of service. If, for example, a company P
 were to select "Audi" from the ad words available on Google's Ads
 program, then, if a user, who, perchance, wanted to buy a luxury
 sedan, keyed in the search term "Audi" in the Google search bar, the
 result that would show up would not only include websites relevant to
 Audi but, above the said search results, would also reflect the
 advertisement of P, and of other persons who had selected "Audi" as
 the ad word from the Google Ads program. These advertisements
 were preceded by the prefix 'Ad' so that the user of the Google search
 engine would be able to immediately distinguish these results from the
 search result which actually dealt with Audi. The judgment of the
 Division Bench extracts the following screen-shot which explains this: 30.1 Paras 31 to 35 of the judgment in Google LLC identify the
 controversy before the Bench and read thus: "31. Google further claims that it, as an intermediary, has a safe
 harbour under Section 79 of the IT Act and the learned Single
 Judge's findings to the contrary are erroneous. Google also
 contends that the directions issued by the learned Single Judge
 requiring it to investigate complaints alleging use of the trademark
 and/or to ascertain whether a sponsored result has an effect of
 infringing a trademark or passing off, are liable to be set aside. 32. DRS disputes Google's claim that its liability is restricted
 under Section 79 of the IT Act. DRS contends that Google actively
 participates in promoting sponsored Ads to be displayed on the
 SERP. It does so by determining the keywords, which is relevant to
 the goods and services of the advertisers and offers its use to them.
 It, admittedly, selects the Ads that are displayed based on an Ad
 Quality Score, which in turn takes into account the
 Max CPC offered by an advertiser. Thus, according to DRS,
 Google's claim that it is a passive intermediary in reference to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 28 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 Ads Programme, is unsustainable. And, the benefit of restriction of
 liability under Section 79 of the IT Act is not available to Google. 33. Google India claims that it neither operates nor controls
 the Search Engine. It does not operate the Ads Programme and
 therefore, is incapable of complying with the directions in the
 impugned judgment. 34. Google has confined the scope of its appeal to assailing the
 directions issued in paragraph no. 127 of the impugned order to the
 extent that the said direction is based on the finding that use of the
 trademarks as keywords in the Ads Programme amounts to 'use' of
 the trademarks under the TM Act, which may amount to
 infringement of the trademarks under the TM Act. And, Google is
 not entitled to the defence under Section 79 of the IT Act. 35. The principal questions that arise for consideration of this
 Court are: (Emphasis supplied)

 30.2 "AGARWAL PACKERS AND MOVERS" was the registered
 trade mark of DRS. "AGARWAL PACKERS AND MOVERS" had
 also been provided as one of the ad words available on the Google
 Ads program. All parties who selected "AGARWAL PACKERS AND
 MOVERS" as the ad word of their choice from the Google Ads
 program would, therefore, have their advertisement reflected above
 the search result relating to Agrawal Packers & Movers itself,
 whenever a user keyed in "AGARWAL PACKERS AND MOVERS" 30.12 A comparison of the issues in the present case, as framed supra,
 with the issues as framed in para 35 of Google LLC, clearly indicates
 that the issues in controversy are identical. 31. Paras 36 to 44 of Google LLC

 Paras 36 to 44 of Google LLC set out, in brief, the findings in the
 judgment of the learned Single Judge which were in appeal before the
 Division Bench. They are not, therefore, relevant for us. 32. Paras 45 to 50 of Google LLC

 32.1 Paras 45 to 50 set out Google's contention before the Division
 Bench. A reading of the said paragraphs once again indicates how
 similar the contention of IIL, before this Court are, to the contentions
 of Google before the Division Bench. 32.2 Para 45 once again notes Google's contention that use of a trade
 mark as a keyword in the Google Ads program did not per se infringe
 the trade mark. Similarly, IIL contends that the use of the plaintiff's
 trade mark "Puma" in the choices in the drop down menu provided to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 34 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 the seller at the time of registration is not per se infringing of the said
 trade mark. 32.3 Para 46 notes one more significant contention advanced by
 Google which is identical to the contention advanced by IIL in the
 present case. Google contended that, as the keyword was invisible to
 the consumer who was using Google as a search engine, the
 requirement of likelihood of confusion, which was a sine qua non for
 infringement, under Section 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act, was absent.
 In a similar vein, IIL contends that, as the choices provided in the drop
 down menu - which included the "Puma" trade mark - were visible
 only to the seller at the time of registration with the Indiamart
 platform and not to the consumer using the Indiamart platform to
 purchase goods, there is no likelihood of confusion within the
 meaning of Section 29(3) of the Trade Marks Act. 32.4 Para 48 of Google LLC carries this point further, by recording
 Google's contention that, in the absence of likelihood of confusion,
 the mere fact that prospective users of DRS's website may have been
 diverted to the website of advertisers who chose "AGARWAL
 PACKERS AND MOVERS" as the ad words, would not indicate
 confusion or likelihood of confusion. Similarly, IIL contends that the
 mere fact that, by selecting "Puma" as the choice from the drop down
 menu provided at the time of registration, a particular seller may have
 been peddling counterfeit goods on the Indiamart platform, would not
 indicate confusion of likelihood of confusion. 32.5 Para 49 once again reiterates the contention of Google, already
 noted earlier in the judgment, that Google's role was content-neutral,
 as the Google Ads program merely provided an advertising platform
 and interface for creating and placing advertisements on the Google
 search engine. Google was, thus, a mere intermediary. If the
 advertisement was violative of the law, the advertiser was liable. In a
 similar fashion, IIL contends that IIL's role, insofar as the selection of
 an option from the drop down menu provided to a seller at the time of
 registration, was content-neutral. The selection was used by a third
 party to select his products on the Indiamart platform with whom IIL
 was not concerned. IIL merely provides a platform for advertising and
 sale of products of third parties and is, therefore, a mere intermediary.
 Like Google, IIL also, therefore, seeks sanctuary under Section 79 of
 the IT Act. If the products sold by the seller, who had selected
 "Puma" as the drop down choice, are not genuine Puma products, it is
 the seller who is responsible and not IIL. As was contended by
 Google and recorded in para 49 of Google LLC, IIL, too, contends
 that providing the trade mark of the plaintiff as a choice in the drop
 down menu did not make IIL a primary infringer or disentitle it from
 seeking the benefit of Section 79 of the IT Act. 33. Paras 52 to 54 of Google LLC

 Paras 52 to 54 of the report in Google LLC record the contentions of
 DRS, which have already been noted earlier in this judgment. 34. Findings of the Division Bench in Google LLC

 The findings of the Division Bench commence from para 55 of the
 report. 35. Paras 55 to 93

 35.1 The Division Bench commenced its discussion on the merits of
 the matter by examining the issue of whether the use of the trade mark
 of a third party as a keyword in the Google Ads program constituted
 "use" of the trade mark within the meaning of the Trade Marks Act . 35.2 The findings of the Division Bench in this regard would,
 therefore, be relevant to decide whether the use of the plaintiff's
 "Puma" trade mark as one of the search options in the drop down
 menu provided to the seller at the time of registration constitutes "use"
 within the meaning of the Trade Marks Act . 35.3 Paras 55 to 57 and 84 to 93 of the report merit reproduction in
 this regard: It contends that the said section requires the expression 'use of a
 mark' to be construed as 'use of printed or other visual
 representation of the mark'. Further, Google contends that Clause (b) of Section 2(2) of the TM Act is required to be read in
 conjunction with Sub-clause (ii) of Section 2(2)(c) of the TM Act.
 This further requires that the 'use of a mark' in relation to services
 be construed as a statement about the availability, provision, or
 performance of such services. 57. According to Google, the use of a keyword, similar to a
 trademark, does not give rise to any actionable claim under the
 TM Act because, being invisible, its use cannot be construed as a
 use of a mark. Mr. Kathpalia had referred to the decision of the
 Federal Court of Australia in Veda Advantage Ltd. v. Malouf
 Group Enterprises Pty Ltd.15 and fashioned his submission on the
 findings returned in the said judgment. ***** 84. Section 2(2)(c)(i) of the TM Act is couched in wide terms.
 Any reference to the use of a mark in relation to goods is not only
 limited to use in any physical form but also "in other relation
 whatsoever" to such goods. The words "in relation to" have been
 interpreted in wide terms. In Hardie Trading Ltd. v. Addisons
 Paint & Chemicals Ltd.16 , the Supreme Court considered the
 scope of Section 2(2)(b) of the TM Act (which is now Section
 2(2)(c)(i) of the TM Act) and interpreted the words "in other
 relation whatsoever" in wide terms. The Court further observed
 that use of the words 'in' and 'whatsoever' indicated that the
 expression 'other relation' was of a wide amplitude. The relevant
 extract of the said decision is as under: (emphasis supplied)

 15 [2016] FCA 255
 16 (2003) 11 SCC 92 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 38 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 42. This shows that the use may be other than physical.
 It may be in any other relation to the goods. Given this
 statutory meaning, we see no reason to limit the user to use
 on the goods or to sale of goods bearing the trademark. ***** 45. In Section 2(2)(b) of the Act, we have the additional
 words "any" and "whatsoever" qualifying the words "other
 relation" giving the words a much wider meaning. Reading
 this definition into Section 46(1) it is clear that the word
 "use" in Section 46(1) may encompass actions other than
 actual sale." 85. We are unable to accept that the use of a trade mark must
 necessarily be limited to use in a visual form on the goods. The
 words 'in any other relation' to goods would also include use in
 relation to the goods, in any form whatsoever. 86. Section 2(2)(c)(ii) of the TM Act requires the reference to
 the use of the mark as or as a part of any statement about
 availability, provision or performance of such services. The
 expression "or in any other relation whatsoever" is not used under
 Section 2(2)(c)(ii) of the TM Act. It is difficult to accept that the
 use of a mark in relation to services must be construed in a
 narrower sense than use of the mark in respect of goods. However,
 the same would depend on the context in which the expression
 "use of the mark" is used. 87. Section 2(2) of the TM Act serves as an aid to interpret the
 words and terms as used in the TM Act. However, the same is by
 no means exhaustive. The expression "use of a mark" is used in the
 TM Act in several sections and in the context of various aspects
 including removal of the trademark on account of abandonment or
 non-use, and for lack of any bona fide intention to use the mark.
 Thus, the question whether a reference to the expression "use of a
 trademark" is to be understood as instructed by Section 2(2)(b) or
 2(2)(c) of the TM Act would depend on the context in which the
 said expression is used. 88. Section 29(6) of the TM Act expressly lists out certain
 actions, which would amount to use of a registered mark for the
 purposes of Section 29 of the TM Act. Clearly, the words of
 Section 2(2) of the TM Act do not control the width of Section
 29(6) of the TM Act. Thus, if any action falls within the scope of
 Section 29(6) of the TM Act, the same would necessarily have to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 39 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 construed as use of the mark, for ascertaining whether the
 trademark is infringed in terms of Section 29 of the TM Act. 89. We concur with the view that the words "unless the context
 otherwise requires" in the opening sentence of Section 2(2) of the
 TM Act, limits the applicability of Section 2(2) of the TM Act to
 where it is contextually relevant. 90. Indisputably, the Ads Programme is Google's commercial
 venture to monetize the use of the Search Engine for advertising by
 displaying the sponsored links of various advertisers, who seek to
 display their advertisements on the SERP pursuant to search
 queries initiated by an internet user. The use of a trademark as
 keywords for display of advertisements in respect of goods or
 services clearly amounts to use of the trademark in advertising
 within the meaning of Section 29(6) of the TM Act. 91. The expression "in advertising" as used in Section 29(6)(d)
 of the TM Act is not synonymous to the expression 'in an
 advertisement'. It is not necessary that the registered trademark
 physically appears in an advertisement for the same to be used "in
 advertising". The use of a trademark as a keyword to trigger
 display of an advertisement of goods or services would, in plain
 sense, be use of the mark in advertising. 92. The conclusion of the Court of Justice of the European
 Union in Google France SARL and Google Inc. v. Louis Vuitton
 Malletier SA17 that use of a sign by an advertiser, which is
 identical to the trademark as a keyword, in the context of an
 internet referencing service, would be the use of the same in
 relation to goods or services, is persuasive on this aspect, our view
 is similar. 93. It is important to distinguish between use of a mark as a
 trademark, and its use other than as a trademark. The use of a
 trademark as a keyword by an advertiser for the purposes of
 displaying its advertisements on the Search Engine, is use of the
 mark in relation to the goods and services offered by an advertiser.
 But it is not use that mark as a trademark." (Emphasis supplied)

 17 [2011] All ER 411 (EC) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 40 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 35.4 Paras 56 and 57 of the report once again record Google's
 contention predicated on the "invisibility" of the ad words provided in
 the Google Ads program to the consumer using the Google search
 engine. Google contended that, as the ad words were invisible to the
 consumer, the making available of third party trade marks as ad words
 by Google did not constitute "use" within the meaning of Section
 2(2)(b) or 2(2)(c)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act , which required "use of a
 mark" to be "use of printed or other visual representation of the
 mark". As the making available of "AGARWAL PACKERS AND
 MOVERS" as an ad word in the Google Ads program did not amount
 to "use" of "AGARWAL PACKERS AND MOVERS" as a trade mark
 within the meaning of Section 2(2)(b) or 2(2)(c)(ii) of the Trade
 Marks Act , Google contended that DRS had no sustainable actionable
 claim under the Trade Marks Act . 35.5 Paras 58 and 59 record the observations of the learned Single
 Judge, against whose decision Google was in appeal. 35.6 Paras 60 to 76 referred to various decisions of foreign courts
 and paras 77 to 83 reproduced statutory provisions contained in the Trade Marks Act . 35.7 In paras 84 to 88 of the report, the Division Bench returned two
 important findings. The first was that the use of the registered trade
 mark, in order to constitute "use of a mark" within the meaning of Section 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act, is not limited
 to use in a visual form on goods, but would also include use in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 41 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 relation to goods in any form whatsoever. The second was that Section
 2(2) of the Trade Marks Act does not control or limit the width of Section 29(6) . As such, use of the registered trade mark of the
 plaintiff, even if in one of the manners envisaged by Section 29(6) ,
 would also constitute "use" for the purposes of the Trade Marks Act . 35.8 Following the above, in paras 90 and 91 of the report, the
 Division Bench has interpreted the expression "in advertising" as
 employed in Section 29(6)(d) . It holds that the expression "in
 advertising" is not synonymous with "in an advertisement". In order
 for a registered trade mark to be regarded as having been used "in
 advertising", therefore, it is not necessary that the registered trade
 mark must feature in an advertisement. As a sequitur, the Division
 Bench holds that the use of a trade mark as a keyword to trigger the
 display of an advertisement of the goods or service would amount to
 use of the trade mark in advertising. 35.9 These findings apply, mutatis mutandis, to the present case. 35.10 In view of the width accorded to the ambit of the expression "in
 any other relation whatsoever", as they occur in Section 2(2)(c)(i) of
 the Trade Marks Act, by the Division Bench, and the consequent
 finding of the Division Bench that the use of the trade mark as an ad
 word in the Google Ads program would also amount to "use" within
 the meaning of Section 2(2) of the Trade Marks Act, the use of the
 plaintiff's registered trade mark as one of the drop down choices
 available to the seller at the time of registration with the Indiamart Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 42 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 platform would also amount to "use" of the trade mark within the
 meaning of Section 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c)(i) . 35.11 I also venture, in this context, to hazard a few independent
 findings on the aspect of "use" in the facts of the present case. 35.12 Section 2(2)(b) clarifies that any reference, in the Trade Marks
 Act , to use of a mark, shall be construed as a reference to the use of
 printed or other visual representation of the mark, though the Division
 Bench in Google LLC has not regarded the stipulation of printed or
 visual representation as absolute. Nonetheless, it cannot be disputed
 that, when it appears as one of the drop down choices to the seller who
 seeks to register himself on the Indiamart platform, the plaintiff's
 PUMA mark is in fact being visually represented. Visual
 representation is visual representation, irrespective of the purpose for
 which it is made, the person for whose eyes it is intended, and whether
 it is made at the backend, the front end or anywhere in between. The
 repeated emphasis on the fact that the drop down menu is a feature
 provided at the "very backend" of the registration process to be
 followed by a seller who seeks to register himself on the Indiamart
 platform, and that the consumer who seeks to purchase merchandise
 from the platform would not encounter the drop down menu, does not
 make the use, by IIL, of the plaintiff's PUMA mark any the less a
 visual representation or, therefore, any the less constitute "use" of the
 mark as envisaged in Section 2(2)(b) . 35.13 Providing, to the prospective seller, of PUMA as one of the
 choices in the drop down menu also satisfies the ingredients of Section 2(2)(c)(i) , which includes, in the definition of "use of a mark",
 use of the mark in any relation to the plaintiff's goods. It is IIL's
 avowed case that the suggestions provided in the drop down menu are
 intended to identify the goods which are being displayed for sale vis-
 à-vis their brand name owner. Thus, in the example provided in para
 5 supra, IIL provides "Puma shoes" as a choice in the drop down
 menu, to be filled in by the seller, to indicate a relationship with the
 goods that the seller seeks to sell and the plaintiff. 35.14 Mr. Rao stressed that, while allowing the seller to select "Puma
 shoes" from the drop down menu, it was never the intent of IIL to
 allow a counterfeiter to peddle counterfeit goods on its platform. That
 may very well be true. Indeed, it is not Mr. Narula's case - it cannot
 be - that IIL was consciously allowing counterfeiters to sell
 counterfeit products on its platform. That, however, is irrelevant as a
 consideration while examining whether providing of "Puma shoes" as
 a choice in the drop down menu presented to the prospective seller
 constitutes "use" of the plaintiff's registered trade mark by IIL. In my
 considered opinion, it certainly does. The intent of providing "Puma
 shoes" as an option to the prospective seller is so that, if the seller
 chooses that option, then, a future customer who accesses the
 Indiamart website and desires to purchase "Puma shoes" would
 immediately be presented with the seller's product - along with the
 products of others who may have chosen "Puma shoes" from the drop
 down menu. "Puma shoes" is, therefore, being used by IIL, even if it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 44 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 is only in the form of one of the choices provided in the drop down
 menu at the "backend", in relation to the goods manufactured by the
 plaintiff. Providing of "Puma shoes" as an option in the drop down
 menu, therefore, satisfies the ingredients of "use of a mark" as
 envisaged in Section 2(2)(c)(i) of the Trade Marks Act. 35.15 Thus, though the "Puma shoes" option provided in the drop
 down menu is visible only to the seller at the time of registering
 himself with the Indiamart platform, and is not visible to the consumer
 who visits the website with intent to purchase goods, and though it is
 provided only at the "backend" of the registration process, the
 providing of the option itself constitutes "use of a mark" of the
 plaintiff, within the meaning of the Trade Marks Act . 35.16 Even if one were, therefore, to regard "use of a mark" as
 necessitating visual representation of the mark, the providing, by IIL,
 of "Puma" as one of the drop down menus available to the seller at the
 time of registration, on the Indiamart platform would constitute "use"
 within the meaning of Section 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c)(i) of the Trade
 Marks Act. 35.17 The findings of the Division Bench in paras 90 and 91 of the
 report in Google LLC would also apply to the facts of the present
 case. It is an admitted position that, as a consequence of the
 providing, by IIL, of "Puma shoes" as a choice in the drop down menu
 available to the seller Mr. X who seeks to register himself on the
 Indiamart platform as a seller of Puma shoes, a subsequent consumer, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 45 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 who desires to purchase Puma shoes and enters "Puma shoes" as a
 search thread in the search bar available on the Indiamart webpage
 would be faced, amongst others, with the Puma shoes sold by Mr. X,
 whether genuine or counterfeit. If he clicks that link, the search result
 invariably advertises the shoes themselves. This is, in fact, apparent
 from the screenshots contained in para 3 supra. 35.17 Analogising the present situation with that which obtained in
 Google LLC and applying, to the present case, the findings returned
 in paras 90 and 91 of that decision, the providing of "Puma shoes" as
 a drop down option to Mr. X, at the time of his registering himself as a
 seller of Puma shoes on the Indiamart platform would amount to
 "use", by IIL, of the plaintiff's registered trade mark "in advertising" 36. Paras 94 to 106 of Google LLC

 36.1 Paras 94 to 106 of the decision in Google LLC dealt with
 whether suggested keywords on the Google Ads program could be
 analogised with meta tags. In my opinion, it is not necessary to draw
 any analogy with meta tags in the present case. Paras 94 to 106 of
 Google LLC are not, therefore, of particular relevance to the facts
 before us. 37. Paras 107 to 130 of Google LLC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 46 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 37.1 Paras 107 to 130 of the decision in Google LLC once again
 examine whether use of a trade mark as keyword on the Google Ads
 program constitutes "use" of the trade mark by Google within the
 meaning of the Trade Marks Act . Of these, paras 107, 110 to 112, 128
 and 130 of the judgment merit reproduction, thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 37.2 Para 107 of the judgment in Google LLC once again records
 Google's contention that it could not be held responsible either for the
 choice of the ad words by the subscriber to the Google Ads program
 or the content of the advertisement of such advertiser. Even if it
 were to be held that use of a registered trade mark as a key-word in
 the Google Ads program amounted to "use of a mark" within the
 meaning of the Trade Marks Act , such use, contended Google, was by
 the subscriber advertiser, and not by Google. Google's contention was
 that it merely permitted advertisers to use keywords and did not select
 the keywords from the options available. The advertiser was,
 therefore, merely given an opportunity to make an informed decision. In the process, the advertiser was also informed of the approximate
 bid value of the keywords. 37.3 The contentions of IIL in the present case are almost identical.
 IIL also contends that it merely permits the prospective seller to use
 the choice from the drop down menu to display his product on the
 Indiamart platform. IIL, like Google, does not select the option from
 the drop down menu. The drop down menu, like the keywords
 selection planner in Google LLC is merely a tool which enables the
 prospective seller to take an informed decision. The only difference is
 that, as the user of the Indiamart platform is a prospective seller of its
 own goods on the platform, and not merely an advertiser, there is no
 question of his being informed of any bid value. 37.4 In para 110, the Division Bench in Google LLC has
 unequivocally rejected Google's contention that it was merely a
 passive service provider, who merely permitted the advertisers to use
 the keywords in the Google Ads program and did not use them itself.
 The findings apply on all fours to the present case. Applying the ratio
 in Google LLC, a review of the procedure to be followed by the
 prospective seller seeking to register himself on the Indiamart
 platform clearly indicates that IIL's role is anything but passive. IIL is
 an active participant in promoting the use of trade mark - including
 the plaintiff's PUMA trade mark as a choice from the drop down
 menu available to the seller for the purpose of peddling his product on
 the Indiamart platform. IIL, therefore, actively suggests the choices
 which are available to the prospective seller from which, once the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 50 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 seller exercises his choice, the seller's products are displayed for sale
 on the Indiamart platform. In another manner, by suggesting the
 choices available, IIL also selects the sellers who would be able to sell
 their products on the Indiamart platform. 37.5 IIL does not include, in its drop down menu, all brands, but
 only select brands of reputed manufacturers. This contention, as
 advanced by Mr. Narula, has not been traversed by Mr. Rao. The
 choice of the brands to be provided to the prospective seller in the
 drop down menu is IIL's. There is, therefore, conscious participation
 by IIL in the exercise of determination of the drop down choices. 37.6 I am also, prima facie, of the view that the observation, in para
 110 of the decision in Google LLC, that the exercise was clearly
 designed to attract maximum revenue, would also apply to the case at
 hand. It is not IIL's case that the facility of selling one's product on
 Indiamart platform is available free of cost or that IIL is providing the
 service gratis. IIL earns revenue from each of the sellers who sells its
 goods on the Indiamart platform, and IIL does not seek to contend
 otherwise, either in its pleadings before the Court or during oral
 arguments or written submissions. Thus, attracting more sellers is also
 aimed at maximising IIL's revenue. Providing an increased number of
 options in the drop down menu available to a prospective seller at the
 time of registration on the Indiamart platform would also increase the
 number of sellers who avail the services of Indiamart. This, as was
 noted by the Division Bench, would maximise IIL's revenue through
 the Indiamart platform. 37.7 For the same reason, the findings in para 111 of Google LLC
 would also, in my view, apply to the case at hand. The Indiamart
 platform is IIL's commercial venture to allow sale of goods of third
 parties, projected to the user who seeks to make purchases on the
 Indiamart platform. By providing, for example, "Puma shoes" as a
 choice in the drop down menu available to the seller at the time of
 registration, the seller's goods are displayed to the consumer who
 enters "Puma shoes" on Indiamart website while seeking to make
 purchases. The mere fact that the decision to display the seller's
 product is automatic does not lessen, in any manner, the role of IIL in
 the entire exercise. IIL is the architect of its website and also of the
 drop down menu feature contained on the website. As was held by the
 Division Bench in the case of Google LLC, therefore, in the present
 case, IIL is also an active participant in the use and selection of the
 option from the drop down menu presented to the prospective seller
 who seeks to register himself on the Indiamart platform. 37.8 Adverting to para 112 of the decision in Google LLC, the
 question whether the plaintiff has the right to demand that its trade
 mark be not used unauthorisedly for sale of goods of third parties on
 the Indiamart website is also at the core of the present dispute. 37.9 In para 128 of the decision, the Division Bench once again
 reiterates its finding that the use of a third party trade mark as a
 keyword in the Google Ads program could not be regarded as use of
 the trade mark only by the advertiser and not by Google. Mutatis Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 52 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 mutandis, use of the third party trade mark - including the PUMA
 trade mark of the plaintiff - as an available drop down option on the
 Indiamart website cannot be regarded as use only by the prospective
 seller who selects that option, and not use by IIL. IIL's participation
 in the entire exercise is not, therefore, limited to merely providing
 tools and the technical framework for prospective sellers to chose an
 option from the drop down menu. IIL itself determines, albeit by use
 of its software and algorithms, the products which are displayed for
 sale on the Indiamart platform. As such, as was held by the Division
 Bench in para 128 of the report in Google LLC, it is difficult to accept
 that IIL does not "use" the trade marks of third parties, presented as
 options in the drop down menu, within the meaning of the Trade
 Marks Act . 37.10 As is noted further in para 130 of the report, the role of IIL is
 not passive. Providing of a larger number of options in the drop down
 menu results, consequently, in a larger number of products of
 manufacturers being displayed for sale on the Indiamart platform and,
 consequently, maximises the revenue earned by IIL in the process.
 IIL, therefore, prima facie, monetizes the value of the trademarks of
 third parties which are reflected in the drop down menu as options
 from which prospective sellers can choose. The Indiamart model, like
 the Google's PPC model in Google LLC, therefore, derives a distinct
 advantage by use of registered third party trade marks as drop down
 options on the website. 38. Paras 131 to 164 of Google LLC

 38.1 In paras 131 to 164, the Division Bench in Google LLC has
 examined whether use of third party trade marks as keywords in the
 Google Ads program would constitute infringement even if such use
 does not result in likelihood of confusion, unfair advantage, dilution
 or compromise of the third party trade mark. Paras 131 to 139 and 147
 of the report in Google LLC merit reproduction thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 19 McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition Fifth Edition Volume 5 Pg 25A-50 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 57 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 38.2 In paras 131 to 133 of the report in Google LLC, the Division
 Bench holds that the use of third party trade marks as keywords on the
 Google Ads program, by Google or by the advertiser, "is not such as
 can be perceived as use of a trade mark" (in para 133 of the report). It
 appears to me, with greatest respect to the Division Bench, that there
 is a minor typo here; the words "use of a trade mark" in para 133
 should read "use as a trade mark", as the finding has been returned in
 the context of Section 29(1) of the Trade Marks Act, which refers to
 use of a mark "as a trade mark". 38.3 In para 133 of Google LLC, the Division Bench has held Section 29(1) of the Trade Marks Act not to be applicable to use of the
 trade mark of a third party by Google as an ad word available in its
 Google Ads program. The reason provided in para 133 itself is that
 "the keyword does not perform any primary function of identifying
 the source of the goods or services". 38.4 The said finding is undoubtedly correct when applied to the use
 of the trade mark of a third person as an ad word in the Google Ads
 program. If one were to refer to the Audi example from para 29.1
 supra, the use of "Audi", as a selected ad word from the available aad
 words on the Google Ads program by an advertiser does not indicate
 that the goods being advertised by the advertiser had anything to do
 with Audi. Thus, the keyword suggested as an ad word by the Google
 Ads program does not act as a source identifier. 38.5 The Trade Marks Act does not define "use as a trademark". for the purposes of the Trade Marks Act , to be "used or proposed to be
 used in relation to goods or services for the purpose of indicating or so
 as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods or
 services, as the case may be, and some person having the right, either
 as proprietor or by way of permitted user, to use the mark..." The use,
 by IIL, of the plaintiff's PUMA mark, in the drop down menu which is
 presented to the prospective seller, is obviously intended to indicate a
 connection in the course of trade between the goods of the seller, who
 selects the "Puma" option and the plaintiff, as the owner of the PUMA
 trade mark. The use of "Puma", in the drop down menu which is
 presented to the prospective seller while registering himself with the
 Indiamart website is, therefore, "use as a trade mark". 38.6 Unlike the situation which obtains in case of use of a registered
 trade mark of a third party as an ad word in the Google Ads program

 20 (zb) "trade mark" means a mark capable of being represented graphically and which is capable of
 distinguishing the goods or services of one person from those of others and may include shape of goods, their
 packaging and combination of colours; and-- (i) in relation to Chapter XII (other than Section 107 ), a registered trade mark or a mark used
 in relation to goods or services for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the
 course of trade between the goods or services, as the case may be, and some person having the right
 as proprietor to use the mark; and (ii) in relation to other provisions of this Act, a mark used or proposed to be used in relation
 to goods or services for the purpose of indicating or so to indicate a connection in the course of
 trade between the goods or services, as the case may be, and some person having the right, either as
 proprietor or by way of permitted user, to use the mark whether with or without any indication of Signature Not Verified the identity of that person, and includes a certification trade mark or collective mark; Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 59 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 by a prospective advertiser, the picking of a choice from the drop
 down menu available on the Indiamart website, of a registered trade
 mark by a prospective seller, is definitely intended to indicate a
 connection in the course of trade between the mark and the proprietor
 of the mark. For example, when a prospective seller chooses "Puma
 Shoes" from the drop down menu on the Indiamart website, the
 intention is to convey to the public that the seller is selling shoes
 which are manufactured by the plaintiff. Applying the reasoning
 contained in para 133 of Google LLC itself, as the choice of "Puma
 Shoes" in the drop down menu provided on the Indiamart platform
 performs the primary function of identifying the source of the goods
 or services to be sold under the said mark, Section 29(1) would be
 applicable. 38.7 Paras 134 and 135 of Google LLC held that, unless the use of a
 trade mark as keyword on the Google Ads program has resulted in the
 internet user being confused, no action for infringement under Section
 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act would lie. In the present case, there is
 no verification whatsoever, carried out by IIL on its Indiamart
 platform regarding the genuineness or veracity of the prospective
 seller, who registers himself as a seller of PUMA merchandise, before
 allowing him to select "Puma" from the drop down menu and thereby
 registered himself as a "Puma" seller. The result is that there is every
 likelihood of confusion taking place, as a result of counterfeit PUMA
 products being displayed for sale on the Indiamart platform. 38.8 I may note, here, that Mr. Rajshekhar Rao's submission that no
 positive case of confusion or infringement has been indicated in the
 plaint is not really correct. The plaintiff has provided screenshots of
 counterfeit PUMA products being sold on the Indiamart platform and
 those screenshots have also been reproduced in this judgment. There
 is every likelihood of an average consumer being misled into
 believing that the goods thus shown as PUMA merchandise actually
 originated from the plaintiff. Actual confusion, therefore, exists; not
 merely a likelihood of confusion. 38.9 Even otherwise, what Section 29 envisages, for infringement to
 be found to exist, is likelihood of confusion. The law does not bar
 entry, to the Court portals, to the plaintiff, till actual confusion has
 resulted and damage caused. It is the duty of the Court to guard
 registered, or well known, trade marks from every likelihood of
 confusion, and resultant consumer deception. 38.10 Para 136 of Google LLC squarely covers the present case. In
 the said paragraph, the Division Bench has held that the protection
 granted to trade marks under the Trade Marks Act is intended to serve
 not merely the proprietor of the trade mark, but also public interest.
 The trade mark functions as a source identifier. All parties including
 the Court are required to ensure that there is as little chance, as
 possible, of the public being deceived by misleading use of genuine
 trade marks. As the Division Bench has held, "any use of a mark,
 which is likely to confuse or deceive the user is impermissible and is
 actionable". The element of public interest that pervades this Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 61 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 consideration is further underscored in the following words, in para
 136 of Google LLC: 38.11 It is not open to IIL, in my opinion, to contend that mere
 offering of a suggestion of the plaintiff's registered trade mark as one
 of the choices in the drop down menu, on the Indiamart website, is not
 likely to result in confusion, as there is no invitation to counterfeiters
 to register themselves as genuine PUMA dealers. There may be no
 such invitation, but there is no check or balance put in place by IIL to
 minimize the possibility of such misuse either. To my mind, it is not
 open to IIL to contend that, having, without any authority or
 permission from the plaintiff, provided the plaintiff's PUMA mark as
 one of the drop down options to the prospective seller without any
 checks or balances in place to ensure that the seller is actually a dealer
 in genuine PUMA products and not a counterfeiter, there is no
 "likelihood of confusion" as a result of providing the plaintiff's
 registered trade mark as one of the drop down options to the
 prospective seller. 38.12 In examining this issue, one has to keep the realities in the
 market place in mind. Counterfeiting is a well known commercial
 evil. It is rampant, both in the brick and mortar world as well as in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 62 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 virtual market place. Counterfeiting is a way to make a quick buck,
 by selling inferior quality products as genuine. The amendment to
 Rule 3(1)(b) of the IT Rules in 2023, which requires an intermediary
 "to cause the user of its computer resource not to host, display,
 upload, modify, publish, transmit, store, update or share any
 information which infringes intellectual property rights" is obviously
 intended to contain online counterfeiting and intellectual property
 infringement. This amounts, therefore, to a statutory recognition of
 the fact that counterfeiting is a known economic evil in the virtual
 world. It is for this reason that the intermediary is required to make
 reasonable efforts to ensure that the information provided by a user of
 its computer resource does not infringe intellectual property rights.
 IIL is statutorily required, therefore, to make reasonable efforts to
 ensure that infringing content is not posted on its website, and that its
 platform is not used for selling counterfeit goods. If it has not made
 reasonable efforts in that direction, and counterfeiters register
 themselves on the Indiamart platform as sellers of genuine PUMA
 products by choosing the "Puma" option from the drop down menu,
 IIL cannot shrug away its participatory role in the exercise of
 counterfeiting and consequent infringement of the plaintiff's
 registered trade mark. 38.13 Why, questions Mr. Narula, does IIL not provide, as the options
 in its drop down menu, "sports shoes" as a category, rather than
 providing individual reputed brand names? If it were to do so, then,
 perhaps, he submits, the liability for infringement would fall only on
 the counterfeiter, as the infringement, in that event, would exclusively Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 63 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 occur at the counterfeiter's end, with no participatory role by IIL
 whatsoever. 38.14 Rhetorical though the query undoubtedly is, it has merit. The
 Court cannot, quite obviously, dictate, to IIL, the choices that it seeks
 to provide in its drop down menu. It is entitled to take a decision in
 that regard in its best commercial interest, but it certainly cannot
 provide such choices as would provide a carte blanche for
 counterfeiting. Wagging a threatening finger at counterfeiters and
 infringers, in its Terms and Conditions, hardly suffices. In the
 absence of any truly effective check, it would be infantile to imagine
 that negative covenants, in the Terms and Conditions, or even an
 undertaking from the prospective seller, would even discourage, much
 less prevent, counterfeiting. 38.15 In para 137 of the judgment in Google LLC, the Division
 Bench holds that the use of a trade mark as a keyword in the Google
 Ads program, to seek out internet users as target for advertisements
 which they may find relevant is not actionable or illegal. There is,
 however, a fundamental difference between providing a trade mark as
 a keyword on the Google Ads program and providing the registered
 trade mark as one of the options in the drop down menu to a
 prospective seller on the Indiamart platform. Unlike the Google
 search engine, the Indiamart platform is not merely in the form of
 directory, but is an e-commerce website, across which goods are
 bought and sold. It may not be possible, therefore, to extend the
 observation contained in para 137 of the Google LLC to a case in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 64 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 which, without the requisite checks and balances, IIL allows
 prospective sellers to register themselves, without ascertaining
 whether they are in fact genuine dealers of the goods bearing the
 concerned trade mark or mere counterfeiters. 38.16 Similarly, in para 138, the Division Bench in Google LLC has
 likened the placement of sponsored advertisements by advertisers
 taking advantage of the Google Ads program, alongside sites
 containing information about the owner of the trade mark used as an
 ad word by such sponsored advertisers, to a brick-and-mortar situation
 in which the competitor purchases shelf space next to competing
 goods of a well-known brand. In other words, if one were to apply
 para 138 to the Audi example already cited earlier, the Division Bench
 does not find anything illegal in Porsche and Lexus placing their ads
 in the SERP, alongside the search result which redirects to the genuine
 Audi webpage. This, according to the Division Bench, is merely a
 form of competitive advertising, which is permissible in law. It is for
 the consumer to choose among Lexus, Porsche and Audi. Providing
 him the option is not illegal, or infringing. 38.17 The situation that obtains in the present case is altogether
 different. Here, by making available Puma as a drop-down option to
 the prospective seller seeking to register himself on the Indiamart
 platform, IIL facilitates not only genuine sellers of Puma merchandise,
 but also counterfeiters in selling their products by masquerading as
 genuine Puma dealers. Thus, this is not a case in which two genuine
 competitors are being placed side by side. This is a case in which a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 65 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 counterfeiter is managing, on account of the availability of Puma as a
 drop-down option, to peddle counterfeits as genuine Puma products.
 This is, therefore, a case of defrauding of consumers, unlike the
 situation envisaged in para 138 of Google LLC. 38.18 In para 139, the Division Bench observes that a balance must be
 struck, and that it is necessary to anchor the protection available to
 trade marks based on the core functions of a trade mark; both for the
 purposes of protecting the public as well as preserving the value of the
 trade mark. These twin considerations, of protecting the public and
 preserving the investment value of a trade mark, would certainly
 require the Court to be vigilant in ensuring that no such system is put
 in place as would facilitate counterfeiters to peddle their goods as
 genuine as, by such acts, public trust is imperilled and the investment
 value of the trade mark is completely eroded. 38.19 Towards the conclusion of para 139, the Division Bench
 observes thus: In the above extracted portion of para 139, the Division Bench rejects
 DRS's submission that the very grant of permission by Google to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 66 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 others to bid for DRS's trade mark AGGARWAL PACKERS AND
 MOVERS as a keyword was infringing. 38.20 The Division Bench holds that, "if there is no confusion that the
 links or ads displayed are not associated or related to DRS" and "if the
 ad or link displayed does not lend itself to any confusion", the
 providing, by Google, of DRS's registered trade mark as one of the ad
 words on its Google Ads program was not actionable. This
 observation is of considerable importance in the facts of the present
 case. The Division Bench has impliedly distinguished between a
 situation in which the result that is displayed as a consequence of use
 of the keyword provided by the provider of the keyword lends itself to
 confusion, from a case in which it does not do so. Where a registered
 trade mark is provided as an available ad word on the Google Ads
 program, there is nothing to indicate that any confusion would result
 as a consequence, as the advertisement which would be displayed
 would be of the advertiser who has selected the said ad word and not
 of the proprietor of the trade mark which is selected as the ad word.
 There is, therefore, no likelihood of confusion whatsoever. Ergo,
 mere providing of the registered trade mark as an ad word which can
 be chosen by the advertiser is not, per se, infringing. In the present
 case, however, to use the words of the Division Bench themselves, the
 link displayed a consequence of unchecked providing of the plaintiff's
 registered trade mark as a choice in the drop-down option to the
 prospective buyer does lend itself to confusion, as it enables
 counterfeiters and persons who are not genuine peddlers of Puma
 merchandise to represent themselves as genuine and thereby deceive Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 67 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 consumers. Applying the logic contained in the closing sentences of
 para 139 of Google LLC, therefore, as the link provided in the form of
 the search option in the drop down menu on the Indiamart webpage
 lends itself to confusion, the providing of the link is itself an
 infringing act. 38.21 Paras 140 to 146, which follow, are not of particular relevance,
 as they deal with the cognitive faculties of the user who conducts the
 Google search, with whom we are not concerned. 38.22 In the present case, as I have pointed out, the situation is vitally
 different from that which obtains in the case of ad words provided in
 the Google Ads program. The likelihood of consumer deception
 which is practically nil in the case of the Google Ads program, is
 considerable as a consequence of IIL providing the plaintiff's
 registered trade mark as one of the drop-down options to a prospective
 seller seeking to register himself on the Indiamart platform. 39. Paras 148 to 164 of Google LLC

 39.1 Paras 148 to 164 essentially deal with the aspect of "initial
 interest confusion" and DRS's contention that, as the initial
 impression that would be conveyed to the user of the Google Search
 Engine, as a result of the advertisements of the sponsored advertisers
 figuring alongside the advertisement of Aggarwal Movers and Packers
 would be misleading, initial interest confusion would occur and,
 consequently, Google's act would be infringing. 39.2 In the facts of the present case, there is really no occasion to
 invoke the "initial interest confusion" principle. The consumer
 seeking to purchase Puma products on the Indiamart platform is
 straightway confronted with the goods of various sellers holding
 themselves out to be genuine Puma merchandise. The confusion is
 not, therefore, merely initial, but continuing. 39.3 Nonetheless, paras 152, 156, 162 and 164 of the judgment of
 the Division Bench are relevant and applicable to the facts of the
 present case and may, therefore, be reproduced, thus: 39.4 The principles enunciated in the afore-extracted paragraphs
 from Google LLC, when apply to the facts of the present case, clearly
 make out a case of infringement. In para 152, the Division Bench has
 held unequivocally that, if the SERP displays an advertisement which
 the internet user is led to believe is associated with the trade mark
 entered by the user as a search query, the use of the trade mark as the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 70 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 keyword would infringe the trade mark. Even if the user does not, as
 a result, conclude any transaction, the use of the trade mark as a
 search word would nonetheless be actionable. In the present case, the
 plaintiff has provided screenshots of actual duplicate and counterfeit
 Puma products being sold on the Indiamart website. It is also
 specifically averred, in the plaint, that on IIL being intimated of such
 fraudulent and counterfeit sales, the concerned listings were taken
 down. Evidence of actual counterfeiting is, therefore, forthcoming on
 record. This counterfeiting has been made possible because the
 counterfeiter has, from the options in the drop-down menu provided
 on the Indiamart platform at the time of registration, been able to
 select the plaintiff's trade mark as the appropriate choice. Applying
 the principle contained in para 152 of Google LLC, therefore, the use
 of the plaintiff's trade mark as a choice in the drop-down menu is
 prima facie infringing in nature. This is further emphasized by the
 observation, in para 156 of Google LLC, that "in cases where the
 internet users are deceived to access the website other than the
 website offering goods, services and information as may be associated
 with the trade mark, the use of the trade mark in internet
 advertisement may be actionable". Analogously, where internet users
 are deceived to purchase goods other than the genuine goods of Puma,
 as would be associated with the "Puma" trade mark, the use of the
 Puma trade mark by IIL is actionable. 39.5 The principles contained in paras 162 and 164 of Google LLC
 also make out, on these facts, a prima facie case of infringement by
 IIL, within the meaning of Section 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act. 40. Paras 165 to 172 of Google LLC

 40.1 In paras 165 to 172 of Google LLC, the Division Bench has
 examined the aspect of infringement within the meaning of Section
 29(4) of the Trade Marks Act, which envisages infringement as taking
 place when a person who is not a registered proprietor or permissible
 user of a trade mark uses an identical or similar trade mark in relation
 to goods and services which are not similar to those covered under the
 registered trade mark, as a result of which unfair advantage of the
 registered trade mark is taken or the distinctive character or repute of
 the registered trade mark is compromised. This provision would not
 apply as the goods, in respect of which the plaintiff's registered trade
 mark is provided as a drop down option and which are actually sold
 by the persons registering themselves on the Indiamart platform by
 using the said option, hold themselves out to be genuine Puma
 merchandise. They are, therefore, identical to, or similar with, the
 goods of the plaintiff. 40.2 In para 166, the Division Bench has proceeded further to hold
 thus: 40.3 In the afore-extracted sentences from para 166 of its judgment
 in Google LLC, the Division Bench has disabused the contention that
 mere use third party trade marks to display advertisements - through,
 in that case, the Google Ads program - would amount to infringement
 of the trade mark. It is further held that the use of trade marks as
 keywords in the Google Ads program does not, per se, amount to,
 without cause, taking unfair advantage of the trade mark; nor can it be
 construed as detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of the
 trade mark. Even if, by using the registered trade mark as an ad word
 on its Google Ads program, Google is identifying users who are
 interested in goods and services covered by the said trade mark, the
 consequence is only that such users are exposed to similar products
 which are advertised and placed before them along with the search
 results on the Google SERP. For this reason, the Division Bench
 holds that "identifying customers who may be looking for goods or
 services of a particular brand, for offering them alternatives is not
 unfair". 40.4 These observations once again underscore the peculiar feature
 of the present case, vis-à-vis the facts which were before the Division
 Bench in Google LLC and the reason why, in the facts of the present Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 73 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 case, the impugned act of IIL in providing the registered trade mark of
 the plaintiff as a drop down option is per se actionable, objectionable
 and infringing. At the cost of repetition, the only consequence of
 providing, for example, "Audi" as an ad word on the Google Ads
 program is that other car manufacturers, such as Lexus and Porsche,
 who select "Audi" as the ad word, would be able to advertise their
 products whenever a consumer enters "Audi" as the search term in the
 Google search bar. All that happens, therefore, is that the Audi
 aficionado is provided with alternatives. This may result in greater
 competition for Audi and may ultimately result in the consumer
 preferring another brand instead of Audi. That by itself is not an
 actionable wrong, at least under the Trade Marks Act . 40.5 In the present case, in stark contrast, when a counterfeiter
 chooses Puma from the choices in the drop down menu, he is
 registered on the Indiamart platform as a genuine Puma dealer. The
 counterfeiter, thereby, manages to peddle counterfeit Puma goods as
 genuine goods. He, thereby, does irreparable damage to Puma's
 registered trade mark, dilutes its brand value to a great extent and also
 deceives the consumer. The participatory role of IIL, in this process,
 cannot be ignored. Unlike the situation which obtained in Google
 LLC, therefore, by providing "Puma", the registered trade mark of the
 plaintiff, as a drop-down option to the prospective seller, IIL has
 created a situation in which there is every likelihood of unfair
 advantage being taken of the plaintiff's registered trade mark, in a
 manner which would be detrimental to its distinctive character and
 repute. 40.6 Para 169 of the decision in Google LLC further underscores
 this position, and reads thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 40.7 The Division Bench has thus held, in the above passage, that if,
 in a given case, the ads displayed are found to be detrimental to the
 distinctive character and repute of the registered trade mark, an action
 for infringement would lie. This observation completely covers the
 present case, the plaintiff has placed on record actual instances where
 the counterfeit Puma products were displayed for sale on the IIL's
 Indiamart platform, thereby causing detriment to the distinctive
 character or repute of plaintiff's registered trade mark. Ergo, applying
 the principle laid down in para 169 of Google LLC, an action for
 infringement of the plaintiff's trade mark lies. 41. Applying the principles in Google LLC, therefore, a prima facie
 case of infringement of the plaintiff's registered trade mark, by the act
 of IIL in providing the plaintiff's "Puma" trade mark as one of the
 drop down option to prospective sellers is found to exist. 42. The above findings answer all the contentions raised by Mr.
 Rao and noted in para 21 (supra) as distinguishing the facts of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 75 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 present case from the facts in Google LLC. The fact that IIL is not the
 competitor of the plaintiff is irrelevant. Though no amount may be
 charged by IIL from a user for choosing a suggested option from the
 drop-down menu, IIL definitely profits from the ultimate sale of the
 users' products on the IIL platform. It cannot, therefore, be said that
 IIL is working on a non-profit basis. 43. Insofar as contention (iv) in para 21 (supra) is concerned, the
 scales are in fact weighed against IIL, rather than its favour. While, in
 Google LLC, the only consequence of providing DRS's registered
 trade mark AGARWAL PACKERS AND MOVERS as one of the
 search words on the Google Ads program was that consumers who
 accessed the Google search engine for information on Aggarwal
 Packers and Movers were also provided with alternatives, the
 consequence of providing the plaintiff's registered "Puma" trade mark
 as one of the drop-down options on the Indiamart website is far more
 serious as it enables - even if it does not encourage - counterfeiters to
 peddle their products as genuine "Puma" products. As I have already
 observed, the "end" at which this option is provided, whether it is the
 backend, frontend or any place in between, is irrelevant. 44. As a result, a prima facie case of infringement within the
 meaning of Section 29(1) , (2) and (4) of the Trade Marks Act , exists. 45. The doctrine of exhaustion Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 76 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 45.1 The doctrine of exhaustion, in the first place, finds no place in
 the Trade Marks Act , and the applicability of the doctrine in trade
 mark law in this country is, therefore, itself highly questionable, at
 least insofar as infringement is concerned. The right to assert trade
 mark rights, which stand statutorily conferred by Section 28(1) ,
 cannot, prima facie, be divested or even diluted save on grounds to be
 found in the Trade Marks Act itself. The Trade Marks Act is a self-
 contained statute regarding infringement of registered trade marks. 45.2 That apart, where the act of IIL is aiding counterfeiters, and
 providing an open field for counterfeiters to sell counterfeit goods of
 the plaintiff, the doctrine of exhaustion, which is predicated on honest
 exploitation of the mark, is ipso facto inapplicable. 46. Re: Issue (ii) - entitlement of IIL to safe harbour under Section 79 46 .1 This aspect is also fully covered by the judgment in Google
 LLC. Paras 181 to 186 of the report deal with the entitlement of
 Google LLC to safe harbour under Section 79 . Of these, paras 182 to
 186 merit reproduction thus: 46.2 The italicised words in paras 184 and 185 of Google LLC
 prima facie apply to IIL as well, in view of the findings already
 returned hereinabove. 46.3 Besides, Rule 3(1)(b)(iv) of the IT Rules requires every
 intermediary to make reasonable efforts to cause users of its computer
 resource not to host, display or upload any information that infringes
 any patent, copyright or other proprietary rights. This requirement
 having been cautiously inserted in October 2022, has to be given a
 strict interpretation. Strict adherence and compliance with the
 requirement are mandatory. Rule 3(1)(b)(iv) of the IT Rules has to be
 read alongside Section 79 of the IT Act. While sub-section (1) of Section 79 insulates an intermediary from third party information,
 data or communication links made available or hosted by it, sub-
 section (2) sets out the circumstances in which this protection would
 be available and sub-section (3) sets out the circumstances in which
 this protection would not be available. Both these provisions prima
 facie augur against IIL in the present case. Section 79(2) stipulates
 the three circumstances in clauses (a), (b) and (c) thereof, in which Section 79(1) would apply. Of these, clauses (a) and (b) are separated
 by the conjunction "or", whereas there is no conjunction between (b)
 and (c). One presumes, however, that clauses (b) and (c) are also to
 be deemed as having been separated by the conjunction "or". This
 indicates that it is not necessary that all the three clauses (a) to (c)
 must simultaneously apply for Section 79(1) to apply and that Section Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 79 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 79(1) would apply if any one of the three clauses (a) to (c) of Section
 79(2) is applicable. 46.4 In the present case, however, none of the three clauses (a) to (c)
 of Section 79(2) applies. 46.5 IIL's function is not limited to providing access to the
 communication system over which the information made available by
 the consumers who use the Indiamart platform is transmitted, stored
 or hosted. The sellers actually effect sale of their products across the
 Indiamart platform of IIL, and IIL pockets a part of the proceeds of
 such sales. The function of IIL, therefore, much transcends mere
 "providing" of "access". Clause (a) of Section 79(2) is, therefore, not
 applicable. 46.6 Clause (b) would also not apply, as by providing select trade
 marks of reputed brand owners as options in its drop-down menu, to
 prospective sellers, IIL effectively initiates and selects the receiver of
 the transmission. The findings in Google LLC also support this
 conclusion. 46.7 Clause (c) of Section 79(2) is also not applicable as IIL has
 clearly not observed due diligence while discharging its duties under
 the IT Act . A mere incorporation, in its terms and conditions of use,
 or the requirement of an undertaking being required to be given by the
 prospective seller that he would not be infringing any intellectual
 property right of third party, is hardly due diligence. There is no Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 80 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 inquiry conducted by IIL regarding the genuineness of the sellers who
 peddle their wares on its platform. All that is sought, from the
 prospective seller, are his statistical details such as his name, email
 ID, phone number and the like. As Mr. Narula has correctly pointed
 out, even furnishing of GST/PAN number is not mandatory. IIL has
 not, in its written statement, drawn attention to any step that it takes to
 verify the genuineness, credibility or antecedents of the prospective
 sellers. It cannot be said, therefore, that any diligence is shown by
 IIL, much less due diligence. 46.8 None of the conditions envisaged in Section 79(2) , which are
 prerequisites for Section 79(1) to apply, are, therefore, fulfilled. 46.9 Section 79(3) states that Section 79(1) would not apply if the
 intermediary has conspired, abetted, aided or induced, whether by
 threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of unlawful act.
 There may be no positive evidence to indicate conspiracy, abetment or
 inducement by IIL in peddling the counterfeit goods on its website.
 However, by allowing the prospective seller to register themselves
 without any prior verification, it can prima facie be said that IIL has
 aided commission of the unlawful act of counterfeiting, using its
 platform as a springboard for the purpose. Aiding is a step before
 abetting. Providing an avenue for counterfeiting is also, prima facie,
 aiding in the misdemeanour. P. Ramanatha Aiyar, in his classic
 Advanced Law Lexicon (6th Edition), distinguishes between "aiding"
 and "abetting" thus: By this token, the providing of "Puma shoes" as a drop down option
 to the prospective seller prima facie aids the seller in his
 counterfeiting design. As IIL has, therefore, prima facie aided the
 commission of the unlawful act of counterfeiting and infringement, it
 cannot claim the benefit of safe harbour under Section 79(1) . 46.10 For all these reasons, IIL cannot claim "safe harbour" 47. An empirical view

 47.1 In the ultimate eventuate, the raison d' etre of the Trade Marks
 Act is protection of the intellectual property that resides in trade marks
 and ensuring that customer confusion is avoided. These
 considerations must inform and govern the decision of any Court
 which is seized with a challenge alleging infringement of a trade
 mark, or passing off. E-commerce websites are commercial ventures,
 and are inherently profit oriented. There is, of course, nothing
 objectionable in this; but, while ensuring their highest returns, such
 websites have also to sedulously protect intellectual property rights of
 others. They cannot, with a view to further their financial gains, put
 in place a protocol by which infringers and counterfeiters are provided Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 82 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 an avenue to infringe and counterfeit. Any such protocol has to meet
 with firm judicial disapproval. 47.2 There is nothing inherently illegal in IIL providing a drop down
 menu from which prospective sellers, on the Indiamart platform, can
 select the brand which they intend to sell. If, however, there are not,
 in place, sufficient checks and balances to prevent counterfeiters from
 misrepresenting themselves as genuine sellers, the protocol cannot
 withstand judicial scrutiny. Given the intent and purpose of the Trade
 Marks Act , and the need to protect intellectual property rights, IIL can
 hardly be allowed to maintain a defence that they have no
 participatory role to play in the process. Rule 3(1)(b)(iv) of the IT
 Rules entirely forecloses this defence. The provision also forecloses,
 to IIL, the defence that it promptly takes down any infringing listing,
 which is brought to its notice. Rule 3(1)(b)(iv) requires the
 intermediary to take reasonable steps to ensure that the use of its
 consumer resource does not post any infringing listing. There is
 obviously no use in closing the stable doors after the horses have
 bolted. An e-commerce platform cannot become a haven for
 infringers. Men are not angels. Where easy money is visible, the
 conscience at times takes a nap. 47.3 The injunction granted by this order does not, however, have to
 continue ad infinitum. IIL can well seek modification, or even
 vacation, of the order, if it can demonstrate to the Court that it has put,
 in place, sufficient regulatory and protective measures to render
 impossible abuse of the Indiamart platform by counterfeiters. Till Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 83 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45 then, however, the present position, in which there is rampant
 counterfeiting - or even the possibility of it - on the Indiamart
 platform, cannot be allowed to continue. The Sequitur 48. As a result, the plaintiff has been able to make out a prima facie
 case of infringement by IIL of the plaintiff's Puma trade mark as
 would justify it to an injunction as sought. 49. As the issues in controversy stand fully answered by the
 judgement of the Division Bench in Google LLC, which is binding on
 me and deals with a largely similar issue even on facts, I have not
 deemed it necessary to advert to the other authorities cited at the bar. Conclusion 50. Resultantly, pending disposal of the suit, the defendant shall
 stand restrained from providing any of the registered trade marks of
 the plaintiff, including PUMA, in respect of any goods whatsoever, as
 search options in the drop down menu presented to prospective sellers
 at the time of their registration on the Indiamart platform. The
 defendant shall also forthwith take down all infringing listings
 containing any of the plaintiff's registered trade marks, relating to
 goods being sold on its Indiamart platform, on the plaintiff bringing
 the listings to its notice. 51. IA 15564/2021 stands allowed accordingly. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. JANUARY 03, 2024
 dsn/rb Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR CS(COMM) 607/2021 Page 85 of 85 Signing Date:04.01.2024 18:32:45