Congress MP, Shashi Tharoor, introduced a private member bill, The Sports (Online Gaming and Prevention of Fraud) Bill, 2018 in the Lok Sabha, with an aim to “ establish an effective regime to maintain the integrity of sports in India by preventing and penalizing sports fraud, regulation of online sports gaming… ”

MediaNama has reached out to the office of Shashi Tharoor for a comment, we will update when we hear from them.

The bill comes in the backdrop of a report by the Law Commission, which had called for regulation and legalisation of sports betting and gambling to bring more transparency in the betting market. The Commission had also recommended that sports betting and gambling should be cashless to deal with issues of tax evasion. In 2016, the Justice Lodha committee had also recommended the legalisation of betting in cricket . Note that Tharoor is associated with cricket, have written book on the sport (called Shadows Across the Playing Field) and is also associated with Kochi Tuskers, which played in the Indian Premier League.

Before this private member bill, Nagaland had passed “The Nagaland Prohibition of Gambling and Promotion and Regulation of Online Games of Skill Act, 2015” in April 2016.

The bill aims to regulate and legitimize online games of skill and allowed online gaming websites to apply for licenses to earn revenue.

The Sports (Online Gaming and Prevention of Fraud) Bill, 2018 is divided into four chapters with two main parts:

The bill prescribes the constitution of a commission called “Online Sports Gaming Commission” which would consist of seven people in all. The prime function of the commission is to oversee the functioning of Online Gaming Websites, track illegal online sports gaming and betting patterns.

The commission would be required to coordinate with the state and central law enforcement agencies to curb illegal online sports gaming. They would be required to make special reports on any matter pertaining to this and suggest appropriate measures to curb illegal online gaming.

Ambit of Online Sports Gaming:

The act defines the ambit of online sports gaming and keeps betting, gambling in relation to events which are not related to sports, out of it. It says:

Composition of the Commission: It would have a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and five members who’d be nominated by the Central Government.

Under the bill, Offence of Sports Fraud is defined as:

The bill recognises a duty to inform: It says that whoever knows about any such act, should inform the appropriate authority or the police or the team management or National Sports Federation in writing. National Sports Federation for cricket is BCCI, and for olympics is Indian Olympic Association.

Investigation of Sports Fraud:

Punishment:

For an individual: If anyone found to be guilty of the sports related frauds, they’d be imprisoned for a term extending to five years and fined ten lakh rupees. If the economic benefits is more that ten lakh, then the fine would be five times greater than the benefit obtained by the guilty.

The punishment for abetment to any of the frauds would be same as that of committing the said fraud.

Offence by companies:

“every person who, at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well a the company, shall be deemed to be guilt of the offence and shall to be proceeded against and punished accordingly…”

Cognizance of offences: No court can take cognizance unless:

The bill says that, “No court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.”

The bill fails to recognise gambling as an addiction and therefore, puts no liability the promotions of online gambling. Widespread promotion is a serious concern as evident in an article published by the Guardian. In case of addictive substances such as alcohol or cigarettes, there are number of laws that regulate the promotion. There is a need to recognise and regulate promotion of betting services as well.

The article details the findings from the two year long research by Dr Darragh McGee, from the University of Bath on how gambling affects two groups of football supporters. It documented the lives of several men who dealt with high interest loans, bank debts, family breakdowns and mental health struggles due to addiction to gambling. The article highlighted how the explosion in marketing and sponsorship since the deregulation of gambling in 2005, along with ease of online betting “has resulted in the “gamblification” of watching football”. The participants in the research by McGee said,

“The gambling companies’ marketing is extremely effective, particularly the offers of “free” bets, and that their losses did not feel like real money because they are so casually on a phone and no longer involve going to a bookmaker’s shop.”

Some of the key findings from the research are as follows:

In UK, from April 2017 to March 2018, people lost a total of £14.4bn in betting. This is £13.8bn more from the year 2016-17. Of the total amount lost in 2017-18, around £5.3bn was lost in gambling online which is an increase of 12.8% from the previous year. Online gambling companies in UK voluntarily agreed “whistle to-whistle”

McGee, in his research said that “a generation of young people view gambling as a normalised part of sport. Turning the tide will require stronger state regulation and a genuine commitment to redistributing a greater slice of the losses incurred by British gamblers to education and treatment for problem gambling.”

McGee concluded that effective marketing by betting companies has hooked a generation into “an accelerated sports culture in which the casual staking of money is an essential accompaniment to watching the game. ”

Also read : Law Commission recommends legalisation of gambling and sports betting

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event