Updated on 31 August 2024 at 12:06 pm : Brazil’s Supreme Court passed an order banning X after the platform failed to appoint legal representatives in the country. The court has also set a daily fine of 50,000 reais ($8,900) for people using a VPN to access it.

Original Story : Elon Musk’s feud with the Brazilian judiciary intensified this week when Brazil’s Supreme Court ordered the freezing of bank accounts belonging to Starlink, Musk’s satellite internet company. Starlink announced this development on X (formerly Twitter) and claimed that the Court had held it liable for fines imposed on Musk-owned social media platform X. The company plans on taking legal action.

The company said the fines were “issued in secret and without affording Starlink any of the due process of law guaranteed by the Constitution of Brazil”.

X also said that they might have to completely shut down in Brazil soon.

Soon, we expect Judge Alexandre de Moraes will order X to be shut down in Brazil – simply because we would not comply with his illegal orders to censor his political opponents. These enemies include a duly elected Senator and a 16-year-old girl, among others. When we attempted…

Earlier this month , X had shut down its Brazilian offices due to a fear of its employees being arrested. Musk accused Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes of engaging in censorship and threatening X’s legal representative with arrest. The order also reportedly imposed a daily fine of 20,000 reais ($3,653) on the company and warned of an arrest decree against X representative Rachel Nova Conceicao.

The root of this feud lies in Moraes’s crusade against hate speech and misinformation. A controversial figure in Brazilian politics, Moraes has launched a number of investigations into ‘anti-democratic’ content online and issued notices to social media platforms.

In April 2024, Moraes had asked the platform to block some accounts on charges of misinformation. While X had initially complied with the order, CEO Elon Musk flipped his stance and later declared that he would reinstate all of the accounts. He went on to claim that Moraes was breaking Brazilian law himself. The Starlink owner also called Moraes a “dictator” and demanded his impeachment. This in turn triggered Moraes into opening a criminal investigation into Musk himself.

However, when it comes to similar disputes in India, X gave into legal demand by blocking a tweet made by journalist Sourav Das last year. In March 2023, the social media platform also withheld accounts of many journalists and activists in Punjab for being vocal about the farmers’ protest.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event