Micro-blogging platform Koo released its third compliance report on September 1 as mandated by the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 . Koo’s report details information it detected through automated tools, complaints it received and took action on, and – a first in the platform’s compliance reports thus far – numbers on spam content it detected and removed.

Overall, numbers pertaining to ‘removed content’ remained low, with most of the Koos (the platform’s term for posts/tweets) being subject to ‘Other Action’ like overlay, blur, ignore, warn. Interestingly, unlike compliance reports by intermediaries like Facebook and Google, Koo does not reveal the categories these reports fall under such as bullying, harassment, nudity, violence, etc.

The compliance report provides the following details on community grievance reports and proactive content removals in August 2021:

Community-based spam moderation: In its first disclosure of category-specific moderation, Koo said it received reports on 984 posts being spam content. Out of this, 45 were removed while the rest faced ‘Other Actions’ such as being hidden, blacklisted, etc.

Pro-active spam moderation: It detected 5,052 Koos as spam. Out of this, 145 were removed while the rest faced ‘Other Actions’.

Community-based moderation: The platform said that 4,493 Koos were reported by the community. This is only slightly higher than its reported number for July (3,431). Out of 4,493, 1,244 were removed while the rest faced ‘Other Actions’.

Proactive or automated moderation: Koo proactively detected 38,456 Koos violating its content moderation policies, around 50% less than the number it detected in July (65,280). Out of 38,456, 1,220 were removed and the rest faced ‘Other Actions’.

As noted before, Koo does not provide content moderation numbers by specific category/guidelines. But it does enforce guidelines for content under the following categories:

In February, when Koo first came into public view after several Union Ministers began signing up, there were reports of hate speech and conspiracy theories on the platform.

In response , Koo had said that it would:

The IT Rules require social media intermediaries to:

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event