R.F. Nariman, J. 1. The large number of writ petitions that have been filed in

this Court challenge the constitutional validity of amendments 9 made to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter

referred to as “the Code”), pursuant to a report prepared by the

Insolvency Law Committee dated 26th March, 2018 (hereinafter

referred to as the “Insolvency Committee Report”). The

amendments so made deem allottees of real estate projects to be

“financial creditors” so that they may trigger the Code, under

Section 7 thereof, against the real estate developer. In addition,

being financial creditors, they are entitled to be represented in the

Committee of Creditors by authorised representatives. The

amendments so made to the Code are as follows: Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-
 clause,- 2. Section 21(6A)(b) “21. Committee of creditors
 (6A) Where a financial debt- (b) is owed to a class of creditors exceeding the number
 as may be specified, other than the creditors covered
 under clause (a) or sub-section (6), the interim
 resolution professional shall make an application to the
 Adjudicating Authority along with the list of all financial
 creditors, containing the name of an insolvency
 professional, other than the interim resolution
 professional, to act as their authorised representative
 who shall be appointed by the Adjudicating Authority
 prior to the first meeting of the committee of creditors;
 […]
 and such authorised representative under clause (a) or
 clause (b) or clause (c) shall attend the meetings of the
 committee of creditors, and vote on behalf of each
 financial creditor to the extent of his voting share.” 3. Section 25A
 “25A. Rights and duties of authorized representatives
 of financial creditors –
 (1) The authorised representative under sub-section (6)
 or sub-section (6A) of section 21 or sub-section (5)
 of section 24 shall have the right to participate and
 vote in meetings of the committee of creditors on
 behalf of the financial creditor he represents in
 accordance with the prior voting instructions of such
 creditors obtained through physical or electronic
 means. (2) It shall be the duty of the authorised representative
 to circulate the agenda and minutes of the meeting
 of the committee of creditors to the financial creditor
 he represents. 11 (3) The authorised representative shall not act against
 the interest of the financial creditor he represents
 and shall always act in accordance with their prior
 instructions: Explanation – For the purposes of this section, the
 “electronic means” shall be such as may be
 specified.”” 2. The Code was passed by the Parliament on 28th May,

2016. Several petitions were then filed against real estate

developers under the Code by allottees who had entered into

“assured returns / committed returns” agreements with these

developers, whereby, upon payment of a substantial portion of the

total sale consideration upfront at the time of execution of the

agreement, the developer undertook to pay a certain amount to 12 allottees on a monthly basis from the date of execution of the

agreement till the date of handing over of possession to the

allottees. The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal

(hereinafter referred to as “NCLAT”) on 21st July, 2017 in Nikhil

Mehta and Sons (HUF) v. AMR Infrastructure Ltd., (Company

Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 07 of 2017) held that amounts raised

by developers under assured return schemes had the “commercial

effect of a borrowing”, which became clear from the developer’s

annual returns in which the amount raised was shown as

“commitment charges” under the head “financial costs”. As a

result, such allottees were held to be “financial creditors” within the

meaning of Section 5(7) of the Code. 3. On 9th August, 2017, proceedings were initiated by IDBI

Bank against a large real estate developer, Jaypee Infratech Ltd.

under Section 7 of the Code before the National Company Law

Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as “NCLT”) Allahabad Bench,

alleging that Jaypee had defaulted on a loan of Rs. 526.11 crores.

On 11th September, 2017, an order was passed by this Hon’ble

Court in Chitra Sharma & Ors. v. Union of India (Writ Petition

(Civil) No.744 of 2017) in the case of Jaypee Infratech Ltd.

appointing a representative of the home buyers, i.e. the allottees, 13 to participate in meetings of the Committee of Creditors in order

that their interests be protected. 4. While this order was passed in Chitra Sharma (supra), qua

another group of builders, namely, the Amrapali group, an order

was passed on 22nd November, 2017 by this Court in Bikram

Chatterji v. Union of India (Writ Petition (Civil) No.940 of 2017)

substantially on the same lines as the order passed in Chitra

Sharma (supra). During proceedings before this Hon’ble Court in

Chitra Sharma (supra), this Court, vide order dated 21st March,

2018, recorded that it was only concerned with those home buyers

who intend to obtain a refund of amounts advanced by them, being

8% of the total home buyers/allottees in Jaypee’s case. Given

these orders by this Court, the Insolvency Committee Report

suggested that amendments be made in the Code seeking to

clarify, as a matter of law, that allottees of real estate projects are

financial creditors. It may be noted that three members of the

Insolvency Law Committee, namely, Shri Shardul Shroff, Shri S.

Sen and Shri B. Sriram, dissented with the rest of the Insolvency

Law Committee on the proposed amendments. On 6th June, 2018,

pursuant to this Report, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

Amendment Ordinance, 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the 14 “Amendment Ordinance”) was promulgated by which the three

amendments (supra) to the Code were inserted. On 17th August,

2018, the Parliament passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

(Second Amendment) Act, 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the

“Amendment Act”) incorporating the aforesaid amendments as

were provided for by the Amendment Ordinance. 5. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Advocate,

leading the charge on behalf of the real estate developers, has

argued that the treatment of allottees as financial creditors violates

two facets of Article 14. One, that the amendment is discriminatory

inasmuch as it treats unequals equally, and equals unequally,

having no intelligible differentia; and two, that there is no nexus

with the objects sought to be achieved by the Code. In fact,

according to the learned senior counsel the amendments fly in the

face of the objects sought to be achieved by the Code, i.e. to

maximise value of assets so that the shareholders of a corporate

debtor do not suffer from bad management or poor management.

In the facts of the present cases, according to Dr. Singhvi, the “bad

eggs” alone have been looked at, and entities like his client and

many others before us, who have completed building projects in

time and are in every way compliant with the law, can yet be 15 jeopardised by Section 7 petitions filed under the Code to

blackmail them into making payments which would divert funds

which are otherwise to be used for the purpose of the project.

According to the learned senior counsel, a perfectly good

management which has several projects on its hands can be

removed at the instance of one allottee and either replaced – in

which case the massive funds infused by the developer himself

would be set at naught – or worse still, lead to commercial death,

in that, if there are no resolution plans or all resolution plans are

rejected either by the Committee of Creditors or by the authorities

under the Code, a perfectly solvent company would then be wound

up, which would not be in the interest of anybody, least of all the

bulk of allottees themselves, who would want possession of

flats/apartments. According to him, therefore, these amendments

are manifestly arbitrary, being excessive, disproportionate,

irrational and without determining principle. For the same reason,

the Petitioners’ fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the

Constitution of India is infracted, and the amendments, not being

a reasonable restriction in the public interest under Article 19(6) would, therefore, have to be struck down. Equally, according to the

learned senior counsel, the deeming fiction in the explanation to Section 5(8)(f) of the Code is inconsistent with the objects sought 16 to be achieved by the Code and has been stretched to absurd

limits, making it manifestly arbitrary. Also, the amendments made

to Section 21 and the insertion of Section 25A of the Code do away

with the collegiality and commercial wisdom of the Committee of

Creditors, and are manifestly arbitrary on this count. He made an

impassioned plea that it was surprising that these amendments

were even made, in view of the fact that there is a specific

legislation, namely, the Real Estate (Regulation and

Development) Act, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as “RERA”),

which deals in detail with the real estate sector, and provides for

adjudication of disputes between allottees and the developer,

together with a large number of safeguards in favour of the

allottee, including agreements in statutory form, which would

replace the agreements entered into between the developer and

the allottees. According to him, therefore, a reading of RERA

would show that all concerns of the allottees would be addressed

by this sector-specific legislation and that the enactment of a

sledgehammer to kill a gnat would render the impugned

amendments excessive, disproportionate and violative of Articles

14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution on this score also. In addition,

the learned senior counsel scoffed at the Union’s stand, in their

counter affidavit before this Court, that the amendments made are 17 clarificatory in nature. According to Dr. Singhvi, by no stretch of

imagination could allottees who have parted with money as sale

consideration for an apartment be included within the definition of

“financial creditor” as originally enacted by Section 5(7) . In fact,

the very need for a deeming fiction is so that Parliament brings in

persons who are not financial creditors, by forcibly inserting a

square peg in a round hole. He read to us this Court’s judgment in Swiss Ribbons v. Union of India (2019) 4 SCC 17, in copious

detail, in order to drive home the point that not a single one of

several characteristics of financial creditors stated in that judgment

would apply to allottees/home buyers. On the contrary, if at all they

could be assimilated to anybody, it would be to operational

creditors, in which event it would be enough to state that there is

a pre-existing dispute between the parties, as a result of which the

Code cannot get triggered. According to him, including allottees of

real estate projects - a huge amorphous and disparate lot - as

financial creditors, would not only be unworkable, as thousands of

petitions would flood the NCLT, but would also be both arbitrary

and unworkable when this large number of disparate persons is

represented on the Committee of Creditors, many of whom would

speak in different voices, being concerned only with their own 18 investment, and having no concern whatsoever for the financial

betterment of the corporate debtor. 6. Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Advocate

appearing on behalf of some of the Petitioners, has adopted the

submissions of Dr. Singhvi. He cited judgments to buttress the Article 14 arguments made by Dr. Singhvi, and added that an

explanation cannot in any way interfere with or change the

enactment or any part thereof. He also argued that it would be

wholly arbitrary to include allottees as financial creditors when, in

fact, they possess none of the characteristics pointed out in Swiss

Ribbons (supra) of banks and financial institutions. 7. Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

behalf of some of the real estate developers, made an

impassioned plea that in one of the writ petitions in which he

appears, the real estate developer has infused over Rs. 100 crores

in a particular project, through funds that are obtained from

abroad. If in the case of entities like this developer, who complete

projects on time and who have never defaulted, a single allottee

can knock at the doors of the NCLT and obtain an admission order,

the management of the corporate debtor would be removed and

replaced by either somebody else, or, if not possible, the company 19 would be wound up. According to him, not only would this be highly

arbitrary and excessive, impacting the fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g) and 300-A , but would also have the indirect effect

of dissuading foreigners from investing in this country. He also

argued that Article 14 interdicts legislation whose object is itself

discriminatory, and cited judgments to prove his point. He argued

with great vehemence, citing judgments to buttress the proposition

that a deeming fiction cannot do away with what are the essentials

of being a financial creditor. According to him, there is no “debt” as

defined under the Code; there is no “borrowing” as there is no

temporary handing over of money which has then to be returned;

there is no “disbursal” and no “sum raised” which has then to be

handed back. Equally, the commercial effect of a borrowing must

be qua transactions in which money is later replaced by money.

According to him, in the present case, at the time that the

agreement is made between the allottee and the real estate

developer, what is agreed is that in return for money paid by the

allottee, a flat/apartment would be allotted. It is only in the event of

breach of the agreement on the part of the real estate developer

that monies are to be refunded, which does not bring allottees

within the definition of “financial creditor”. He also argued,

adopting Dr. Singhvi’s arguments, that all other categories of 20 financial creditors would involve these elements, and if read

noscitur a sociis with the other clauses, Section 5(8) of the Code

would also make it clear that persons can only be included if there

is a borrowing, at the end of which the borrowing is returned - with

or without interest. He thus agreed with Dr. Singhvi’s argument

that what was sought to be inserted by the amendment is a square

peg in a round hole. 8. Shri Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Advocate appearing

on behalf of some of the Petitioners, then followed. He stressed

the facts of Writ Petition No.357 of 2019 to show that huge sums

have been infused into a large number of projects by the

developers themselves, all such projects being constructed in

accordance with RERA. According to him, if the amendments

pass muster, as many as 5000 workers engaged across these real

estate projects together with 600 employees would be directly

impacted. NCLT applications have been filed by allottees of only

14 units out of 19,062 units sold. According to him, his client has

never defaulted in repayment of amounts borrowed from

banks/financial institutions and, in fact, upon initiation of the

insolvency process, on account of one petition filed by one allottee,

IDFC invoked a standby letter of credit and thereby recovered the 21 entire amount due to them being approximately Rs. 100 crores

prematurely. Therefore, large solvent real estate developers would

be crippled if the Code were to be applied in this fashion to them.

Apart from buttressing arguments already made on Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) , he relied on judgments to show that a claim for

unliquidated damages becomes a debt only on adjudication, which

does not take place when a Section 7 application is heard.

According to him, since the NCLT can only go into “default” and as

the definition of “default” itself is vague and ambiguous, the said

definition should be struck down as being manifestly arbitrary. He

also added, citing the same judgment as Shri Neeraj Kaul, namely, S. Sundaram Pillai v. V.R. Pattabiraman (1985) 1 SCC 591, that

an explanation cannot enlarge the scope of the original provision. He also made a without-prejudice argument that even if allottees

are not permitted to trigger the Code, they may still be protected

by making suitable amendments for their inclusion in the

Committee of Creditors, so that they may have a voice in the future

of the corporate debtor, which will impact the flats/apartments to

be given to them or refunds to be made, as the case may be. 9. Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Advocate,

followed Shri Bhushan and argued on the various facets of Articles 22 14 and 19(1)(g). He also sought directions to recalcitrant States to

immediately set up the requisite authorities under RERA and

made an impassioned plea that the words “claims as may be

specified” in Section 15(1)(c) of the Code be struck down.

According to him, real estate developers and borrowers are

treated as equals when they are, in fact, unequals. Also, real

estate developers are discriminated against when compared with

other entities supplying goods or services. The amendments made

are, therefore, excessive and disproportionate being manifestly

arbitrary. He also buttressed Dr. Singhvi’s argument that a square

peg is fitted into a round hole as none of the identifying traits of

financial creditors as explained in Swiss Ribbons (supra) are

present insofar as allottees are concerned. He added that, in any

case, RERA looks after all possible difficulties of allottees, who

may in addition, invoke the arbitration clause for resolution of

disputes with the real estate developer contained in most

agreements. 10. Shri Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior Advocate, who

followed Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, placed before us the

Global Derivatives Study Group and extracts from Philip Wood’s

Project Finance, Subordinated Debt and State Loans; and 23 Principles of International Insolvency by the same author. He then

relied on ‘The ACT Borrower’s Guide to the LMA’s Investment

Grade Agreements’ produced by Slaughter & May to explain the

genesis of Section 5(8) generally and 5(8)(f) of the Code in

particular. He then relied upon a number of judgments, which

according to him made it clear that a deeming fiction is enacted

when the position in reality is completely different, and hence, a

deeming fiction is introduced when something is not otherwise

covered under the main provision. On this basis, he contended

that the amendment to Section 5(8)(f) of the Code was prospective

in nature. He also cited judgments to show that time for completion

of a project can never be said to be of the essence of the

agreement between the builder and the allottee, and this being so,

a builder cannot be said to be in default when he does not deliver

a flat/apartment within the time specified, but later. According to

him, since Section 5(8) of the Code is a “means and includes”

definition clause, it is exhaustive and therefore, to then introduce

by way of amendment something extra by means of a deeming

fiction would thus not be permissible in law. Shri Krishnan

Venugopal also referred to extracts from various authorities to

demonstrate that even qua credit and conditional sale

agreements, ultimately Section 5(8) is concerned only with 24 transactions in which finance is involved. He also pointed out, with

reference to Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings in the United

States, that once a company has been stigmatised as being

bankrupt or having gone into bankruptcy, several persons who

earlier dealt with the company disengaged themselves, as a result

of which the Company’s power to do business gets severely

hampered. 11. The tail of the arguments on behalf of the Petitioners then

wagged in the persona of several other counsel who added titbits

here and there. Shri Bhandari, appearing for one of the writ

Petitioners, gave a chart of a comparative analysis between the

‘UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law’ (2005)

(hereinafter referred to as the “UNCITRAL Legislative Guide”)

,which forms the basis of the Code, and the Bankruptcy Law

Reforms Committee Report (2015), argued that the impugned

amendments went against several features of this UNCITRAL

Legislative Guide. He contended that, first and foremost, the

fundamental difference between financial and operational

creditors was ignored. Secondly, he contended that by treating

home buyers, who are in substance operational creditors, as

financial creditors, infracts the principle of equitable treatment of 25 similarly situated creditors. Further, the UNCITRAL Legislative

Guide states that recognition of existing creditor’s rights before the

commencement of the insolvency proceedings by the insolvency

law is important. He contended that by treating a home buyer as a

financial creditor, the Code creates rights which such home buyer

never had earlier. He further contended that by involving such

persons in the negotiation process by putting them on the

Committee of Creditors would infract the principle that, given their

number and the diverse interests that they have, coupled with no

knowledge or any commercial expertise of the corporate debtor,

they should not and ought not to be allowed to participate in the

Committee of Creditors. Also, insolvency law and other laws

should be harmoniously construed, which harmony is disrupted

when the Code is applied to cases which should really fall under

RERA. Shri Bhandari was followed by Shri J. Gupta, who argued

that instead of deeming that allottees/home buyers be regarded as

financial creditors, they ought to be regarded as operational

creditors in which case, defences available in such cases would

then be available. Shri Pulkit Deora then showed us accounting

standards in which it became clear that advances received from

home buyers by developers cannot, from an accounting

perspective, be treated as financial liabilities and the amendments 26 in doing so, therefore, violate the aforesaid standards and become

manifestly arbitrary. Also, after going into the definition of “claim”,

“financial debt” and “operational debt”, he argued that a financial

debt is a crystallised claim which is due, as opposed to an

operational debt which may simply be a claim upon breach of

contract that may be disputed and therefore not due. On this basis

he contended that to put home buyers in the financial creditor

category, instead of the operational creditor category, would then

blur this distinction and do away with a vital defence available to

the real estate developer in the case of operational debts. Shri

Rana Mukherjee, appearing through Shri K. Poddar, argued that

home buyers would not fall within the category of either financial

or operational creditors and should therefore be subsumed only

within RERA, which is a complete code dealing with the real estate

industry. He further argued that RERA is a special Act as opposed

to the Code, which is a general Act and ought, therefore, to prevail.

Also, as the adjudication process envisaged under RERA would

be done away with if the Code is to be applied, the application of

the Code to home buyers would be manifestly arbitrary. M/s.

Kejriwal and P. Aggarwal have argued that on the facts of their

cases, force majeure events occurred as a result of which

possession could not be handed over. They also pointed out that, 27 from a practical point of view, the NCLT in such cases does not go

into defences which would demonstrate that delays in handing

over possession cannot be attributed to the developer, and being

a summary proceeding, merely goes ahead and admits a Section

7 petition despite the fact that the developer is not at fault in not

handing over the flat/apartment in time. Shri S. Malhotra repeated

some of the submissions that have already been noted

hereinabove. Shri P.S. Bindra argued that we should apply the

Amendment Act only prospectively, either from 2018 itself or at the

very earliest from 1st December, 2016. He also argued that if this

Court were to uphold the vires of the Amendment Act, his clients

ought to be at liberty to take various defences under the

agreement between his client and allottees, which this Court

should make clear in the event of allottees knocking at the doors

of the NCLT. 12. Mrs. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General,

relying strongly upon Swiss Ribbons (supra), argued that the

Amendment Act would clearly be covered by the ratio laid down

by this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra), which is that sufficient

play in the joints must be given to the legislature when it comes to

economic legislation, and every experiment that the legislature 28 bona fide undertakes should not be interfered with by the Court.

She referred copiously to the Insolvency Committee Report which

led to the enactment of the Amendment Act, and stated that the

real reason for including allottees as financial creditors is because,

in substance, they finance the project in which they will ultimately

be given flats/apartments. She contended that a cursory look at

the agreement between developers and such allottees would

show that at every stage in the building process, certain amounts

have to be paid which are then supposed to be utilised in

constructing the apartments/flats. This is what makes them

different from other operational creditors. Also, in the case of

operational creditors, it is the person who stands in the place of

the developer, who either sells goods or renders service for which

he is to be paid. The exact opposite obtains in the case of home

buyers/allottees who in fact fund their own flats/apartments. She

was at great pains to point out that it must never be forgotten that

the Code is not a recovery mechanism. When a home buyer

approaches the NCLT, if his petition is admitted, he does not get

his money back in the near foreseeable future and has to stand in

line and await either the vagaries of a resolution plan which gives

him some percentage of the monies owed to him, and/or

completes the project for him. In the event of winding up, he has 29 then to stand in line and receive whatever is available. As opposed

to this, home buyers/allottees can and do approach the authorities

under RERA in which, upon showing breach on the part of the real

estate developer, they would be able to claim whatever has been

paid by them in full together with interest thereon. This being the

case it is wholly incorrect to paint a picture, as was done by

learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Petitioners, that

trigger-happy allottees mala fide invoke the Code to put pressure

on developers to refund their money given as advances. Also, it

is wholly incorrect to say that highly solvent companies would go

in the red and then be wound up under the Code. If in fact such

companies are solvent, the Committee of Creditors may decide to

continue the same management or may decide to accept

resolution plans from other developers so that the real estate

development company continues as a going concern. Winding up

is only a last resort, which will never really occur in the case of well

managed corporate entities. She referred in copious detail to

NCLT and NCLAT judgments in which it was held that, save and

except allottees who had agreements in which a fixed monthly

return was guaranteed by the developer, allottees were held to be

neither operational nor financial creditors, resulting in great

hardship to them. She took us through the various sections of the 30 Code afresh and argued that Section 5(8)(f) , even read without the

explanation, would, on its plain language, include real estate

development agreements. For this purpose, she relied upon the

definition of “payment” which would include “recompense” and on

the definition in Collin’s English dictionary of “borrow” which is “to

obtain or receive money on loan for temporary use intending to

give either money or something equivalent back to the lender”. In

the facts of these cases, she contended that the “something

equivalent” would be the flat/apartment. She also relied upon the

definition of “commercial” to show that the profit element is

important. She stressed the fact that the “time value of money” is

present qua both allottee and builder as the allottee would pay less

than he would have to for a complete flat/apartment, in which case

the entire consideration for the flat/apartment would have to be

paid upfront; as against instalments while it is being completed.

Qua the builder, she contended that the time value of money would

be the money paid by way of advances by allottees which would

be used to finance the building of the flats/apartments in the

project. She also relied strongly upon Section 18 of RERA to show

that in order to be a financial creditor, it is enough that a right

recognised by Section 18 in favour of the allottee to payment

would exist, and therefore, would be included within the definition 31 of “financial debt” read with “debt” contained in Section 5(8) and Section 3(11) of the Code respectively. She also referred to and

relied upon Section 4(2)(l)(D) of RERA to show that 70% of

advances received by the developer from allottees must be put

into an escrow account, which can only be used for the project at

hand, showing therefore that even statutorily, monies paid by way

of advance are in the nature of a financing transaction. She then

cited judgments to show how the noscitur a sociis principle cannot

be used when express wider language is used in one of the sub-

clauses of a particular provision, making it clear that it is meant to

be read by itself, and not in conjunction with what precedes and

succeeds it. She also cited judgments to show that the expression

“deemed” is also to put a certain matter beyond doubt and argued

that an explanation can be inserted by the legislature as additional

support to what is already contained in the main provision. She

added that deeming fictions put in explanations are not something

unknown to the law, and cited judgments to buttress her

contention. She also cited judgments to show that when “means”

is used separately from “includes”, the definition clause would be

inclusive, as opposed to when “means and includes” is used, and

therefore argued that since Section 5(8) is not exhaustive, the

category of home buyers could be added therein. Also, according 32 to her, “means” and “includes” when interpreted by courts, is

different from the legislature itself amending the provision so as to

add something therein. Legislative activity cannot be confused

with interpretational activity by the courts. She then argued,

referring to the provisions of RERA in some detail, that a complete

information bank is provided by RERA, which is provided by the

real estate developer himself, from which, like information utilities

under the Code, information, inter alia, as to defaults made by the

real estate developer would be available. According to her,

therefore, all that the NCLT would have to be supplied with by the

allottee in his Section 7 petition would be this information, and,

after receiving a reply from the real estate developer, would then

easily be able to decide whether a real estate developer owes

money in the form of compensation payable for late completion of

the project, and/or refund of money paid by the allottee. It would

be open for the real estate developer in its defence to say that no

amount is due and payable from the allottee, in that, the allottee is

himself in breach of conditions laid down by the agreement read

with the RERA, and rules and regulations made thereunder.

According to her, therefore, the NCLT would be able to decide

such applications in the same manner as would be decided in the

case of banks and financial institutions. She also rebutted the 33 argument that the collegiality of creditors will be affected by

inserting home buyers into their committee by stating that home

buyers, like banks and financial institutions, and unlike other

operational creditors, are vitally concerned with the well-being of

the corporate debtor, as otherwise the real estate project would

never come to fruition. In rebutting the challenge to Section 21(6A) and Section 25A, she said there may be teething problems with

regard to how an authorised representative is to vote on the

Committee of Creditors, but stated that the legislature is in the

process of ironing out these creases and referred to the recent

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2019 which

has just been passed by Parliament. She also argued that home

buyers may themselves finance up to 100% of a project, and in

case they finance a project by 100%, the Code would not work

unless they were recognised as financial creditors as, not being

financial or operational creditors, no Committee of Creditors could

be set up at all; and for this purpose she relied upon the proviso to Section 21(8) of the Code, read with Regulation 16 of the

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution

Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016. She argued,

therefore, that on point of fact, if allottees of real estate projects

were to be kept out of the Committee of Creditors, that itself would 34 be manifestly arbitrary as in most cases they finance the project to

the tune of at least 50%, going up to 100%. She also stated that

each project was usually carried out by a ‘special purpose vehicle’,

being a corporate entity on its own, and therefore, the bogey of

destabilisation of a management which has brought in large funds

for many projects, and which would be replaced for all projects,

would not be correct. 13. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India

broadly supported the detailed arguments of Mrs. Madhavi Divan,

learned Additional Solicitor General, by buttressing the same by

citing various judgments and authorities. According to him also,

given the fact that Swiss Ribbons (supra) gives the legislature

free play in the joints when it comes to economic legislation and

experimentation in this sphere, Swiss Ribbons (supra) itself is

more or less a complete answer to all constitutional challenges

that may be made to the Amendment Act. 14. A number of counsel then appeared for allottees in

individual cases. These counsel argued, by referring copiously to

NCLT and NCLAT orders, consumer forum judgments and High

Court judgments, that the consumer fora, and the authorities under

RERA are not meaningful remedies for allottees at all. According 35 to them, loopholes made in the rules by various States still allow

one-sided agreements by real estate developers to continue to

govern the relationship between allottee and real estate developer

long after RERA has come into force. This has been done, for

example, by defining ‘Completion Certificate’ to include partial

completion certificates of projects (or parts of projects), so that

such partial certificates given to the real estate developer before

coming into force of RERA would make the provisions of RERA

inapplicable. Also, it has been pointed out that real estate

developers have been successful in arguing that RERA has now

shut out the consumer fora so far as allottees are concerned, and

referred to stay orders by which consumer fora for a long period of

time were unable to proceed with cases filed by allottees before

them, until the National Consumer Disputes Redressal

Commission finally decided that the Consumer Protection Act,

1986 was an additional remedy and continued to be an additional

remedy to the remedies provided under RERA. They also pointed

out that the authorities themselves under RERA jostled the

allottees about, as when an allottee went to the Real Estate

Regulatory Authority and obtained orders against developers,

such orders were nullified by some Appellate Tribunal orders,

stating that they should be sent to the adjudicating officer who 36 alone could decide disputes between allottees and real estate

developers. Separately, in answer to the argument that the

admission of a Section 7 application would be fatal to the

management of the corporate debtor, and that one single allottee

could destabilise the management of the corporate debtor and not

just the project undertaken by the corporate debtor, they pointed

out that there were 5 stages at which it would be open for the real

estate developer to compromise with the allottee in question,

before the sledgehammer under the Code comes down on the

erstwhile management. They pointed out that settlements have

taken place at: (i) the stage of the Section 7 notice itself before

replies were filed by the real estate developer; (ii) after the NCLT

issues notice on a Section 7 application and before admission; (iii)

after the hearing and before the order admitting the matter; (iv)

post-admission, and before appointment of the Committee of

Creditors where both the NCLT and NCLAT use their inherent

power to permit settlements; and (v) even post setting-up of the

Committee of Creditors, whereby settlements can be arrived at

under Section 12A of the Code with the concurrence of 90% of the

creditors. On this basis, they pointed out that long before the

chopper comes down on the management of the corporate debtor,

all these opportunities are given to the management of the 37 corporate debtor to settle with the individual allottee, showing

thereby that there is no real infraction of Article 14 , 19(1)(g) or 300-

A of the Constitution. They also argued that the provisions of Section 7(4) of the Code giving the NCLT 14 days within which to

ascertain the existence of a default is directory as has been held

in Surendra Trading Company v. Juggilal Kamlapat Jute Mills

Company Limited and Ors. 2017 (16) SCC 143. They made an

impassioned plea, relying upon the background to RERA, to argue

that if these beneficial amendments were to be struck down, they

would be back in the same position as they were before enactment

of other measures, which have not really worked to afford them

relief. The Legislature’s right to experiment in matters economic 15. In Swiss Ribbons (supra), this Court was at pains to point

out, referring, inter alia, to various American decisions in

paragraphs 17 to 24, that the legislature must be given free play

in the joints when it comes to economic legislation. Apart from the

presumption of constitutionality which arises in such cases, the

legislative judgment in economic choices must be given a certain

degree of deference by the courts. In paragraph 120 of the said

judgment , this Court held: 38 16. The Insolvency Committee Report is of crucial importance

in understanding why the legislature thought it fit to categorise

home buyers as financial creditors under the Code. The

recommendations made by the said Insolvency Law Committee

are set out hereinbelow in extenso: 39 construction apartments (“home buyers”) as
 creditors under the Code. Multiple judgments have
 categorised them as neither fitting within the
 definition of ‘financial’ nor ‘operational’ creditors. In
 one particular case, they have been classified as
 ‘financial creditors’ due to the assured return scheme
 in the contract, in which there was an arrangement
 wherein it was agreed that the seller of the
 apartments would pay ‘assured returns’ to the home
 buyers till possession of property was given. It was
 held that such a transaction was in the nature of a
 loan and constituted a ‘financial debt’ within the
 Code. A similar judgment was given in Anil
 Mahindroo & Anr v. Earth Organics Infrastructure .
 But it must be noted that these judgments were given
 considering the terms of the contracts between the
 home buyers and the seller and are fact specific.
 Further, the IBBI issued a claim form for “creditors
 other than financial or operational creditors”, which
 gave an indication that home buyers are neither
 financial nor operational creditors. 1.2 Non-inclusion of home buyers within either the
 definition of ‘financial’ or ‘operational’ creditors may
 be a cause for worry since it deprives them of, first,
 the right to initiate the corporate insolvency
 resolution process (“CIRP”), second, the right to be
 on the committee of creditors (“CoC”) and third, the 40 guarantee of receiving at least the liquidation value
under the resolution plan. Recent cases like Chitra
Sharma v. Union of India and Bikram Chatterji v.
Union of India have evidenced the stance of the
Hon’ble Supreme Court in safeguarding the rights of
home buyers under the Code due to their current
disadvantageous position. 1.3 To completely understand the issue, it is
imperative that the peculiarity of the Indian real
estate sector is highlighted. Delay in completion of
under-construction apartments has become a
common phenomenon and the records indicate that
out of 782 construction projects in India monitored by
the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
Implementation, Government of India, a total of 215
projects are delayed with the time over-run ranging
from 1 to 261 months. Another study released by the
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of
India, revealed that 826 housing projects are running
behind schedule across 14 states as of December
2016. Further, the Committee agreed that it is well
understood that amounts raised under home buyer
contracts is a significant amount, which contributes
to the financing of construction of an asset in the
future. 1.4 The current definition of ‘financial debt’ under section 5(8) of the Code uses the words “includes”,
thus the kinds of financial debts illustrated are not
exhaustive. The phrase “disbursed against the
consideration for the time value of money” has been
the subject of interpretation only in a handful of cases
under the Code. The words “time value” have been
interpreted to mean compensation or the price paid
for the length of time for which the money has been
disbursed. This may be in the form of interest paid
on the money, or factoring of a discount in the
payment. 1.5 On a review of various financial terms of
agreements between home buyers and builders and 41 the manner of utilisation of the disbursements made
by home buyers to the builders, it is evident that the
agreement is for disbursement of money by the
home buyer for the delivery of a building to be
constructed in the future. The disbursement of
money is made in relation to a future asset, and the
contracts usually span a period of 4-5 years or more.
The Committee deliberated that the amounts so
raised are used as a means of financing the real
estate project, and are thus in effect a tool for raising
finance, and on failure of the project, money is repaid
based on time value of money. On a plain reading of section 5(8)(f) , it is clear that it is a residuary entry to
cover debt transactions not covered under any other
entry, and the essence of the entry is that “amount
should have been raised under a transaction having
the commercial effect of a borrowing.” An example
has been mentioned in the entry itself i.e. forward
sale or purchase agreement. The interpretation to be
accorded to a forward sale or purchase agreement
to have the texture of a financial contract may be
drawn from an observation made in the case of Nikhil
Mehta and Sons (HUF) v. AMR Infrastructure Ltd. : Accordingly, in CIRP, they will be a part of the CoC
 and will be represented in the manner specified in
 paragraph 10 of this report, and in the event of
 liquidation, they will fall within the relevant entry in
 the liquidation waterfall under section 53 . The
 Committee also agreed that resolution plans under
 the Code must be compliant with applicable laws,
 like RERA, which may be interpreted through section
 30(2)(e) of the Code. It may be noted that there was
 majority support in the Committee for the
 abovementioned treatment of home buyers. However, certain members of the Committee,
 namely Sh. Shardul Shroff, Sh. Sudarshan Sen and
 Sh. B. Sriram, differed on this matter.”

 (emphasis supplied) 17. When it came to devising a mechanism by which several

persons may be represented by one authorised representative,

the Insolvency Law Committee concluded: 18. It can be seen that the Insolvency Law Committee found,

as a matter of fact, that delay in completion of flats/apartments has

become a common phenomenon, and that amounts raised from

home buyers contributes significantly to the financing of the

construction of such flats/apartments. This being the case, it was

important, therefore, to clarify that home buyers are treated as

financial creditors so that they can trigger the Code under Section

7 and have their rightful place on the Committee of Creditors when

it comes to making important decisions as to the future of the

building construction company, which is the execution of the real

estate project in which such home buyers are ultimately to be

housed. 19. Shri Shardul Shroff, whose dissent was provided to us in

the form of an e-mail, after finding that self-financed home buyers 45 may be financial creditors, but a home buyer who is a borrower is

not, then went on to state: The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) and its impact on the real estate sector 20. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of RERA reads as

follows: It seeks to establish symmetry of information between
 the promoter and purchaser, transparency of
 contractual conditions, set minimum standards of
 accountability and a fast-track dispute resolution
 mechanism. The proposed Bill will induct
 professionalism and standardisation in the sector, thus
 paving the way for accelerated growth and investments
 in the long run.” 21. It may be stated that Sections 2 , 20 to 39 , 41 to 58 , 71 to 78 and 81 to 92 of this statute were brought into force on 1st May,

2016. Sections 3 to 19 which deal with registration of real estate

projects and real estate agents; functions and duties of promoters;

rights and duties of allottees, together with Section 40 which deals

with recovery of interest or penalty or compensation and

enforcement of orders qua the same; the Sections dealing with

offences and penalties, viz., Sections 59 to 70 and Sections 79 and 80 which bar the jurisdiction of Civil Courts and deal with 48 cognizance of offences under the RERA were all brought into

force one year later i.e. on the 1st day of May, 2017. This was for

the reason that the “appropriate Government” as defined in Section 2(g) , which means the various State Governments and

Union Territories, were given a period of one year to

establish/appoint the Real Estate Regulatory Authority, the

adjudicating officer and the Appellate Tribunal, consequent upon

which the aforesaid Sections were brought into force one year

later - in the hope and expectation that the appropriate

Government would set up the aforesaid authorities within the

period of one year from 1st May, 2016. The relevant provisions of

RERA are set out hereunder: xxx xxx xxx (d) "allottee" in relation to a real estate project,
 means the person to whom a plot, apartment or
 building, as the case may be, has been allotted, sold
 (whether as freehold or leasehold) or otherwise
 transferred by the promoter, and includes the
 person who subsequently acquires the said
 allotment through sale, transfer or otherwise but
 does not include a person to whom such plot,
 apartment or building, as the case may be, is given
 on rent; (e) "apartment" whether called block, chamber,
dwelling unit, flat, office, showroom, shop, godown,
premises, suit, tenement, unit or by any other name,
means a separate and self-contained part of any
immovable property, including one or more rooms or
enclosed spaces, located on one or more floors or
any part thereof, in a building or on a plot of land,
used or intended to be used for any residential or
commercial use such as residence, office, shop,
showroom or godown or for carrying an any
business, occupation, profession or trade, or for any
other type of use ancillary to the purpose specified;

xxx xxx xxx (g) "appropriate Government" means in respect of
matters relating to, — (i) the Union territory without Legislature, the
 Central Government; (ii) the Union territory of Puducherry, the Union
 territory Government; (iii) the Union territory of Delhi, the Central
 Ministry of Urban Development; (iv) the State, the State Government; xxx xxx xxx (i) "Authority" means the Real Estate Regulatory
Authority established under sub-section (1) of section 20 ; xxx xxx xxx (s) "development" with its grammatical variations
and cognate expressions, means carrying out the
development of immovable property, engineering or
other operations in, on, over or under the land or the
making of any material change in any immovable
property or land and includes re-development; 50 xxx xxx xxx
(zn) "real estate project" means the development of
a building or a building consisting of apartments, or
converting an existing building or a part thereof into
apartments, or the development of land into plots or
apartments, as the case may be, for the purpose of
selling all or some of the said apartments or plots or
building, as the case may be, and includes the
common areas, the development works, all
improvements and structures thereon, and all
easement, rights and appurtenances belonging
thereto; xxx xxx xxx 3. Prior registration of real estate project with
Real Estate Regulatory Authority. --(1) No
promoter shall advertise, market, book, sell or offer
for sale, or invite persons to purchase in any manner
any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be,
in any real estate project or part of it, in any planning
area, without registering the real estate project with
the Real Estate Regulatory Authority established
under this Act: section (1), no registration of the real estate project
shall be required— (a) where the area of land proposed to be developed
does not exceed five hundred square meters or the
number of apartments proposed to be developed
does not exceed eight inclusive of all phases: development which does not involve marketing,
advertising selling or new allotment of any
apartment, plot or building, as the case may be,
under the real estate project. Explanation. —For the purpose of this section,
where the real estate project is to be developed in
phases, every such phase shall be considered a
stand alone real estate project, and the promoter
shall obtain registration under this Act for each
phase separately. 4. Application for registration of real estate
projects. --(1) Every promoter shall make an
application to the Authority for registration of the real
estate project in such form, manner, within such
time and accompanied by such fee as may be
prescribed by the regulations made by the Authority. 52 (2) The promoter shall enclose the following
documents along with the application referred to in
sub-section (1), namely: — (a) a brief details of his enterprise including its name,
registered address, type of enterprise
(proprietorship, societies, partnership, companies,
competent authority), and the particulars of
registration, and the names and photographs of the
promoter; (b) a brief detail of the projects launched by him, in
the past five years, whether already completed or
being developed, as the case may be, including the
current status of the said projects, any delay in its
completion, details of cases pending, details of type
of land and payments pending; (c) an authenticated copy of the approvals and
commencement certificate from the competent
authority obtained in accordance with the laws as
may be applicable for the real estate project
mentioned in the application, and where the project
is proposed to be developed in phases, an
authenticated copy of the approvals and
commencement certificate from the competent
authority for each of such phases; (d) the sanctioned plan, layout plan and
specifications of the proposed project or the phase
thereof, and the whole project as sanctioned by the
competent authority; (e) the plan of development works to be executed
in the proposed project and the proposed facilities to
be provided thereof including firefighting facilities,
drinking water facilities, emergency evacuation
services, use of renewable energy; (f) the location details of the project, with clear
demarcation of land dedicated for the project along
with its boundaries including the latitude and
longitude of the end points of the project; 53 (g) proforma of the allotment letter, agreement for
sale, and the conveyance deed proposed to be
signed with the allottees; (h) the number, type and the carpet area of
apartments for sale in the project along with the area
of the exclusive balcony or verandah areas and the
exclusive open terrace areas apartment with the
apartment, if any; (i) the number and areas of garage for sale in the
project; (j) the names and addresses of his real estate
agents, if any, for the proposed project; (k) the names and addresses of the contractors,
architect, structural engineer, if any and other
persons concerned with the development of the
proposed project; (l) a declaration, supported by an affidavit, which
shall be signed by the promoter or any person
authorised by the promoter, stating:—
 (A) that he has a legal title to the land on which
 the development is proposed along with legally
 valid documents with authentication of such title,
 if such land is owned by another person; (B) that the land is free from all encumbrances,
 or as the case may be details of the
 encumbrances on such land including any rights,
 title, interest or name of any party in or over such
 land along with details; (C) the time period within which he undertakes
 to complete the project or phase thereof, as the
 case may be; (D) that seventy per cent. of the amounts
 realised for the real estate project from the
 allottees, from time to time, shall be deposited in
 a separate account to be maintained in a
 scheduled bank to cover the cost of construction 54 and the land cost and shall be used only for that
 purpose: 5. Grant of registration.— On receipt of the
application under sub-section (1) of section 4 , the
Authority shall within a period of thirty days. (a) grant registration subject to the provisions of
 this Act and the rules and regulations made
 thereunder, and provide a registration number,
 including a Login Id and password to the applicant
 for accessing the website of the Authority and to
 create his web page and to fill therein the details
 of the proposed project; or (b) reject the application for reasons to be
 recorded in writing, if such application does not
 conform to the provisions of this Act or the rules
 or regulations made thereunder: section (1), provide a registration number and a
Login Id and password to the promoter for accessing
the website of the Authority and to create his web
page and to fill therein the details of the proposed
project. (3) The registration granted under this section shall
be valid for a period declared by the promoter under
sub-clause (C) of clause (1) of sub-section (2) of
section 4 for completion of the project or phase
thereof, as the case may be. 6. Extension of registration.-- The registration
granted under section 5 may be extended by the 56 Authority on an application made by the promoter
due to force majeure, in such form and on payment
of such fee as may be prescribed: 7.Revocation of registration.-- (1) The Authority
may, on receipt of a complaint or suo motu in this
behalf or on the recommendation of the competent
authority, revoke the registration granted under section 5 , after being satisfied that— (a) the promoter makes default in doing anything
 required by or under this Act or the rules or the
 regulations made thereunder; (b) the promoter violates any of the terms or
 conditions of the approval given by the competent
 authority; (c) the promoter is involved in any kind of unfair
 practice or irregularities. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,
the term "unfair practice” means a practice which,
for the purpose of promoting the sale or
development of any real estate project adopts any 57 unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice
including any of the following practices, namely:—
 (A) the practice of making any statement,
whether in writing or by visible representation
which,— (i) falsely represents that the services are of a
particular standard or grade; (ii) represents that the promoter has approval or
affiliation which such promoter does not have; (iii) makes a false or misleading representation
concerning the services; (B) the promoter permits the publication of any
advertisement or prospectus whether in any
newspaper or otherwise of services that are not
intended to be offered; (d) the promoter indulges in any fraudulent
 practices. (2) The registration granted to the promoter under section 5 shall not be revoked unless the Authority
 has given to the promoter not less than thirty days
 notice, in writing, stating the grounds on which it is
 proposed to revoke the registration, and has
 considered any cause shown by the promoter
 within the period of that notice against the
 proposed revocation. (3) The Authority may, instead of revoking the
 registration under sub-section (1), permit it to
 remain in force subject to such further terms and
 conditions as it thinks fit to impose in the interest of
 the allottees, and any such terms and conditions so
 imposed shall be binding upon the promoter.
 (4) The Authority, upon the revocation of the
 registration,— (a) shall debar the promoter from accessing its
 website in relation to that project and specify his 58 name in the list of defaulters and display his
 photograph on its website and also inform the other
 Real Estate Regulatory Authority in other States
 and Union territories about such revocation or
 registration; (b) shall facilitate the remaining development
 works to be carried out in accordance with the
 provisions of section 8 ; (c) shall direct the bank holding the project back
 account, specified under sub clause (D) of clause
 (I) of sub-section (2) of section 4 , to freeze the
 account, and thereafter take such further
 necessary actions, including consequent de-
 freezing of the said account, towards facilitating the
 remaining development works in accordance with
 the provisions of section 8 ; (d) may, to protect the interest of allottees or in the
 public interest, issue such directions as it may
 deem necessary. 8. Obligation of Authority consequent upon
lapse of or on revocation of registration.--Upon
lapse of the registration or on revocation of the
registration under this Act, the Authority, may
consult the appropriate Government to take such
action as it may deem fit including the carrying out
of the remaining development works by competent
authority or by the association of allottees or in any
other manner, as may be determined by the
Authority: (b) quarterly up-to-date the list of number and
 types of apartments or plots, as the case may be,
 booked; (c) quarterly up-to-date the list of number of
 garages booked; (d) quarterly up-to-date the list of approvals taken
 and the approvals which are pending subsequent
 to commencement certificate; (e) quarterly up-to-date status of the project; and (f) such other information and documents as may
 be specified by the regulations made by the
 Authority. (2) The advertisement or prospectus issued or
published by the promoter shall mention prominently
the website address of the Authority, wherein all
details of the registered project have been entered
and include the registration number obtained from
the Authority and such other matters incidental
thereto. (3) The promoter at the time of the booking and
issue of allotment letter shall be responsible to make 60 available to the allottee, the following information,
namely:— (a) sanctioned plans, layout plans, along with
 specifications, approved by the competent
 authority, by display at the site or such other
 place as may be specified by the regulations
 made by the Authority; (b) the stage wise time schedule of completion
 of the project, including the provisions for civic
 infrastructure like water, sanitation and
 electricity. (4) The promoter shall— (a) be responsible for all obligations,
 responsibilities and functions under the
 provisions of this Act or the rules and
 regulations made thereunder or to the allottees
 as per the agreement for sale, or to the
 association of allottees, as the case may be, till
 the conveyance of all the apartments, plots or
 buildings, as the case may be, to the allottees,
 or the common areas to the association of
 allottees or the competent authority, as the
 case may be: (g) pay all outgoings until he transfers the
physical possession of the real estate project to
the allottee or the associations of allottees, as
the case may be, which he has collected from
the allottees, for the payment of outgoings
(including land cost, ground rent, municipal or
other local taxes, charges for water or
electricity, maintenance charges, including
mortgage loan and interest on mortgages or 62 other encumbrances and such other liabilities
 payable to competent authorities, banks and
 financial institutions, which are related to the
 project): xxx xxx xxx 13. No deposit or advance to be taken by
promoter without first entering into agreement for
sale. (1) A promoter shall not accept a sum more than
ten per cent of the cost of the apartment, plot, or
building as the case may be, as an advance payment
or an application fee, from a person without first
entering into a written agreement for sale with such
person and register the said agreement for sale,
under any law for the time being in force. (2) The agreement for sale referred to in sub-section
(1) shall be in such form as may be prescribed and
shall specify the particulars of development of the
project including the construction of building and
apartments, along with specifications and internal
development works and external development works,
the dates and the manner by which payments
towards the cost of the apartment, plot or building, as
the case may be, are to be made by the allottees and
the date on which the possession of the apartment,
plot or building is to be handed over, the rates of
interest payable by the promoter to the allottee and
the allottee to the promoter in case of default, and
such other particulars, as may be prescribed.
xxx xxx xxx 18. Return of amount and compensation --(1) If the
promoter fails to complete or is unable to give
possession of an apartment, plot or building,— (a) in accordance with the terms of the
 agreement for sale or, as the case may be, duly
 completed by the date specified therein; or (b) due to discontinuance of his business as a
 developer on account of suspension or 64 revocation of the registration under this Act or for
 any other reason,
 he shall be liable on demand to the allottees, in
 case the allottee wishes to withdraw from the
 project, without prejudice to any other remedy
 available, to return the amount received by him in
 respect of that apartment, plot, building, as the
 case may be, with interest at such rate as may be
 prescribed in this behalf including compensation in
 the manner as provided under this Act: 19. Rights and duties of allottees --(1) The allottee
shall be entitled to obtain the information relating to
sanctioned plans, layout plans along with the
specifications, approved by the competent authority
and such other information as provided in this Act or
the rules and regulations made thereunder or the
agreement for sale signed with the promoter. 65 (2) The allottee shall be entitled to know stage-wise
time schedule of completion of the project, including
the provisions for water, sanitation, electricity and
other amenities and services as agreed to between
the promoter and the allottee in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the agreement for sale.
(3) The allottee shall be entitled to claim the
possession of apartment, plot or building, as the
case may be, and the association of allottees shall
be entitled to claim the possession of the common
areas, as per the declaration given by the promoter
under sub-clause (C) of clause (I) of sub-section (2)
of section 4 . (4) The allottee shall be entitled to claim the refund
of amount paid along with interest at such rate as
may be prescribed and compensation in the manner
as provided under this Act, from the promoter, if the
promoter fails to comply or is unable to give
possession of the apartment, plot or building, as the
case may be, in accordance with the terms of
agreement for sale or due to discontinuance of his
business as a developer on account of suspension
or revocation of his registration under the provisions
of this Act or the rules or regulations made
thereunder. (5) The allottee shall be entitled to have the
necessary documents and plans, including that of
common areas, after handing over the physical
possession of the apartment or plot or building as
the case may be, by the promoter. (6) Every allottee, who has entered into an
agreement or sale to take an apartment, plot or
building as the case may be, under section 13 , shall
be responsible to make necessary payments in the
manner and within the time as specified in the said
agreement for sale and shall pay at the proper time
and place, the share of the registration charges,
municipal taxes, water and electricity charges, 66 maintenance charges, ground rent, and other
 charges, if any. (7) The allottee shall be liable to pay interest, at such
 rate as may be prescribed, for any delay in payment
 towards any amount or charges to be paid under
 sub-section (6). (8) The obligations of the allottee under sub-section
 (6) and the liability towards interest under sub-
 section (7) may be reduced when mutually agreed
 to between the promoter and such allottee. (9) Every allottee of the apartment, plot or building
 as the case may be, shall participate towards the
 formation of an association or society or cooperative
 society of the allottees, or a federation of the same.
 (10) Every allottee shall take physical possession of
 the apartment, plot or building as the case may be,
 within a period of two months of the occupancy
 certificate issued for the said apartment, plot or
 building, as the case may be. (11) Every allottee shall participate towards
 registration of the conveyance deed of the
 apartment, plot or building, as the case may be, as
 provided under sub-section (1) of section 17 of this
 Act. 20. Establishment and incorporation of Real
Estate Regulatory Authority -- (1) The appropriate
Government shall, within a period of one year from
the date of coming into force of this Act, by
notification, establish an Authority to be known as the
Real Estate Regulatory Authority to exercise the
powers conferred on it and to perform the functions
assigned to it under this Act: xxx xxx xxx 31. Filing of complaints with the Authority or the
adjudicating officer.-- (1) Any aggrieved person
may file a complaint with the Authority or the
adjudicating officer, as the case may be, for any
violation or contravention of the provisions of this Act
or the rules and regulations made thereunder against
any promoter allottee or real estate agent, as the
case may be. Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-section
"person" shall include the association of allottees or
any voluntary consumer association registered under
any law for the time being in force. 68 (2) The form, manner and fees for filing complaint
 under sub-section (1) shall be such as may be
 prescribed. xxx xxx xxx 34. Functions of Authority --The functions of the
Authority shall include— (a) to register and regulate real estate projects and
 real estate agents registered under this Act; (b) to publish and maintain a website of records, for
 public viewing, of all real estate projects for which
 registration has been given, with such details as
 may be prescribed, including information provided
 in the application for which registration has been
 granted; (c) to maintain a database, on its website, for public
 viewing, and enter the names and photographs of
 promoters as defaulters including the project
 details, registration for which has been revoked or
 have been penalised under this Act, with reasons
 therefor, for access to the general public; (d) to maintain a database, on its website, for public
 viewing, and enter the names and photographs of
 real estate agents who have applied and registered
 under this Act, with such details as may be
 prescribed, including those whose registration has
 been rejected or revoked; (e) to fix through regulations for each areas under xxx xxx xxx 36. Power to issue interim orders. --Where during
an inquiry, the Authority is satisfied that an act in
contravention of this Act, or the rules and regulations
made thereunder, has been committed and continues
to be committed or that such act is about to be
committed, the Authority may, by order, restrain any
promoter, allottee or real estate agent from carrying
on such act until the conclusion of such inquiry of until
further orders, without giving notice to such party,
where the Authority deems it necessary. 37. Powers of Authority to issue directions. --The
Authority may, for the purpose of discharging its
functions under the provisions of this Act or rules or
regulations made thereunder, issue such directions
from time to time, to the promoters or allottees or real
estate agents, as the case may be, as it may consider
necessary and such directions shall be binding on all
concerned. 38. Powers of Authority. --(1) The Authority shall
have powers to impose penalty or interest, in regard
to any contravention of obligations cast upon the
promoters, the allottees and the real estate agents,
under this Act or the rules and the regulations made
thereunder. (2) The Authority shall be guided by the principles of
 natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of
 this Act and the rules made thereunder, the
 Authority shall have powers to regulate its own
 procedure. 70 (3) Where an issue is raised relating to agreement,
 action, omission, practice or procedure that— (a) has an appreciable prevention, restriction or
 distortion of competition in connection with the
 development of a real estate project; or (b) has effect of market power of monopoly
 situation being abused for affecting interest of
 allottees adversely,
 then the Authority, may suo motu, make reference
 in respect of such issue to the Competition
 Commission of India. 39. Rectification of orders. --The Authority may, at
any time within a period of two years from the date of
the order made under this Act, with a view to
rectifying any mistake apparent from the record,
amend any order passed by it, and shall make such
amendment, if the mistake is brought to its notice by
the parties: 40. Recovery of interest or penalty or
compensation and enforcement of order, etc.-
 (1) If a promoter or an allottee or a real estate
 agent, as the case may be, fails to pay any interest
 or penalty or compensation imposed on him, by the
 adjudicating officer or the Regulatory Authority or
 the Appellate Authority, as the case may be, under
 this Act or the rules and regulations made
 thereunder, it shall be recoverable from such
 promoter or allottee or real estate agent, in such 71 manner as may be prescribed as an arrears of land
 revenue. (2) If any adjudicating officer or the Regulatory
 Authority or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case
 may be, issues any order or directs any person to
 do any act, or refrain from doing any act, which it is
 empowered to do under this Act or the rules or
 regulations made thereunder, then in case of
 failure by any person to comply with such order or
 direction, the same shall be enforced, in such
 manner as may be prescribed. xxx xxx xxx 43. Establishment of Real Estate Appellate
Tribunal-- (1) The appropriate Government shall,
within a period of one year from the date of coming
into force of this Act, by notification, establish an
Appellate Tribunal to be known as the — (name of
the State/Union territory) Real Estate Appellate
Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx 44. Application for settlement of disputes and
appeals to Appellate Tribunal-- (1) The appropriate
Government or the competent authority or any
person aggrieved by any direction or order or
decision of the Authority or the adjudicating officer
may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.
xxx xxx xxx 58. Appeal to High Court. --(1) Any person
aggrieved by any decision or order of the Appellate
Tribunal, may, file an appeal to the High Court, within
a period of sixty days from the date of communication
of the decision or order of the Appellate Tribunal, to
him, on any one or more of the grounds specified in section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5
of 1908): 72 59. Punishment for nonregistration under section 3.-- (1) If any promoter contravenes the provisions of section 3 , he shall be liable to a penalty which may
extend up to ten per cent of the estimated cost of the
real estate project as determined by the Authority.
 (2) If any promoter does not comply with the orders,
 decisions or directions issued under sub-section
 (1) or continues to violate the provisions of section
 3 , he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
 term which may extend up to three years or with
 fine which may extend up to a further ten per cent
 of the estimated cost of the real estate project, or
 with both. 60. Penalty for contravention of section 4 . --If any
promoter provides false information or contravenes
the provisions of section 4 , he shall be liable to a
penalty which may extend up to five per cent. of the
estimated cost of the real estate project, as
determined by the Authority. 61. Penalty for contravention of other provisions
of this Act.-- If any promoter contravenes any other
provisions of this Act, other than that provided under section 3 or section 4 , or the rules or regulations
made thereunder, he shall be liable to a penalty which
may extend up to five per cent. of the estimated cost
of the real estate project as determined by the
Authority. 73 xxx xxx xxx 71. Power to adjudicate.-- (1) For the purpose of
adjudging compensation under sections 12 , 14 , 18 and section 19 , the Authority shall appoint in
consultation with the appropriate Government one or
more judicial officer as deemed necessary, who is or
has been a District Judge to be an adjudicating officer
for holding an inquiry in the prescribed manner, after
giving any person concerned a reasonable
opportunity of being heard: xxx xxx xxx 72. Factors to be taken into account by the
adjudicating officer.-- While adjudging the quantum
of compensation or interest, as the case may be,
under section 71 , the adjudicating officer shall have
due regard to the following factors, namely:— (a) the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair
 advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a result
 of the default; (b) the amount of loss caused as a result of the
 default; (c) the repetitive nature of the default; (d) such other factors which the adjudicating officer
 considers necessary to the case in furtherance of
 justice. xxx xxx xxx 79. Bar of jurisdiction. --No civil court shall have
jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of any matter which the Authority or the
adjudicating officer or the Appellate Tribunal is
empowered by or under this Act to determine and no
injunction shall be granted by any court or other
authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken
in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this
Act. xxx xxx xxx 75 88. Application of other laws not barred-- The
 provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not
 in derogation of, the provisions of any other law for
 the time being in force. 89. Act to have overriding effect.-- The provisions
 of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything
 inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for
 the time being in force.” 22. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions would show that, on

and from the coming into force of the RERA, all real estate projects

(as defined) would first have to be registered with the Real Estate

Regulatory Authority, which, before registering such projects,

would look into all relevant details, including delay in completion

of other projects by the developer. Importantly, the promoter is

now to make a declaration supported by an affidavit, that he

undertakes to complete the project within a certain time period,

and that 70% of the amounts realised for the project from allottees,

from time to time, shall be deposited in a separate account, which

would be spent only to defray the cost of construction and land

cost for that particular project. Registration is granted by the

authority only when it is satisfied that the promoter is a bona fide

promoter who is likely to perform his part of the bargain

satisfactorily. Registration of the project enures only for a certain

period and can only be extended due to force majeure events for 76 a maximum period of one year by the authority, on being satisfied

that such events have, in fact, taken place. Registration once

granted, may be revoked if it is found that the promoter defaults in

complying with the various statutory requirements or indulges in

unfair practices or irregularities. Importantly, upon revocation of

registration, the authority is to facilitate the remaining development

work, which can then be carried out either by the “competent

authority” as defined by the RERA or by the association of

allottees or otherwise. The promoter at the time of booking and

issue of allotment letters has to make available to the allottees

information, inter alia, as to the stage-wise time schedule of

completion of the project. Deposits or advances beyond 10% of

the estimated cost as advance payment cannot be taken without

first entering into an agreement for sale. Importantly, the

agreement for sale will now no longer be a one-sided contract of

adhesion, but in such form as may be prescribed, which balances

the rights and obligations of both the promoter and the allottees.

Importantly, under Section 18 , if the promoter fails to complete or

is unable to give possession of an apartment, plot or building in

accordance with the terms of the agreement for sale, he must

return the amount received by him in respect of such apartment

etc. with such interest as may be prescribed and must, in addition, 77 compensate the allottee in case of any loss caused to him. Under Section 19 , the allottee shall be entitled to claim possession of the

apartment, plot or building, as the case may be, or refund of

amount paid along with interest in accordance with the terms of

the agreement for sale. In addition, all allottees are to be

responsible for making necessary payments in instalments within

the time specified in the agreement for sale and shall be liable to

pay interest at such rate as may be prescribed for any delay in

such payment. Under Section 31 , any aggrieved person may file

a complaint with the authority or the adjudicating officers set up by

such authority against any promoter, allottee or real estate agent,

as the case may be, for violation or contravention of the RERA,

and rules and regulations made thereunder. Also, if after

adjudication a promoter, allottee or real estate agent fails to pay

interest, penalty or compensation imposed on him by the

authorities under the RERA, the same shall be recoverable as

arrears of land revenue. Appeals may be filed to the Real Estate

Appellate Tribunal against decisions or orders of the authority or

the adjudicating officer. From orders of the Appellate Tribunal,

appeals may thereafter be filed to the High Court. Stiff penalties

are to be awarded for breach and/or contravention of the

provisions of the RERA. Importantly, under Section 72 , the 78 adjudicating officer must first determine that the complainant has

established “default” on the part of the respondent, after which

consequential orders may then follow. Under Section 88 , the

provisions of RERA are in addition to and not in derogation of the

provisions of any other law for time being in force and under Section 89 , RERA is to have effect notwithstanding anything

inconsistent contained in any other law for the time being in force.

The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 vis-à-vis the Real

Estate (Regulation and Development) Act , 2016 23. Section 238 of the Code reads as follows: 24. It is significant to note that there is no provision similar to

that of Section 88 of RERA in the Code, which is meant to be a

complete and exhaustive statement of the law insofar as its

subject matter is concerned. Also, the non-obstante clause of

RERA came into force on 1st May, 2016, as opposed to the non-

obstante clause of the Code which came into force on 1st

December, 2016. Further, the amendment with which we are 79 concerned has come into force only on 6th June, 2018. Given

these circumstances, it is a little difficult to accede to arguments

made on behalf of learned senior counsel for the Petitioners, that

RERA is a special enactment which deals with real estate

development projects and must, therefore, be given precedence

over the Code, which is only a general enactment dealing with

insolvency generally. From the introduction of the explanation to Section 5(8)(f) of the Code, it is clear that Parliament was aware

of RERA, and applied some of its definition provisions so that they

could apply when the Code is to be interpreted. The fact that

RERA is in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of

any other law for the time being in force, also makes it clear that

the remedies under RERA to allottees were intended to be

additional and not exclusive remedies. Also, it is important to

remember that as the authorities under RERA were to be set up

within one year from 1st May, 2016, remedies before those

authorities would come into effect only on and from 1st May, 2017

making it clear that the provisions of the Code, which came into

force on 1st December, 2016, would apply in addition to the RERA. 25. In KSL & Industries Ltd. v. Arihant Threads Ltd. (2015)

1 SCC 166, a Three Judge Bench of this Court held that the Sick 80 Industries Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (hereinafter

referred to as the “Sick Act”) would prevail over the Recovery of

Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the “Recovery Act”) - both statutes

containing non-obstante clauses. After going into the scheme of

both the statutes, this Court referred in particular to Section 34(2)

of the Recovery Act and then held as follows: 36. Sub-section (2) was added to Section 34 of the
 RDDB Act w.e.f. 17-1-2000 by Act 1 of 2000. There is
 no doubt that when an Act provides, as here, that its
 provisions shall be in addition to and not in derogation
 of another law or laws, it means that the legislature
 intends that such an enactment shall coexist along
 with the other Acts. It is clearly not the intention of the
 legislature, in such a case, to annul or detract from the
 provisions of other laws. The term “in derogation of”
 means “in abrogation or repeal of”. The Black's Law
 Dictionary sets forth the following meaning for
 “derogation”: 81 37. The effect of sub-section (2) must necessarily be
to preserve the powers of the authorities under SICA
and save the proceedings from being overridden by
the later Act i.e. the RDDB Act. 38. We, thus, find a harmonious scheme in relation to
the proceedings for reconstruction of the company
under SICA, which includes the reconstruction of
debts and even the sale or lease of the sick company's
properties for the purpose, which may or may not be a
part of the security executed by the sick company in
favour of a bank or a financial institution on the one
hand, and the provisions of the RDDB Act, which deal
with recovery of debts due to banks or financial
institutions, if necessary by enforcing the security
charged with the bank or financial institution, on the
other. xxx xxx xxx 48. In view of the observations of this Court in the
decisions referred to and relied on by the learned
counsel for the parties we find that, the purpose of the
two enactments is entirely different. As observed
earlier, the purpose of one is to provide ameliorative
measures for reconstruction of sick companies, and
the purpose of the other is to provide for speedy
recovery of debts of banks and financial institutions.
Both the Acts are “special” in this sense. However,
with reference to the specific purpose of reconstruction
of sick companies, SICA must be held to be a special 82 law, though it may be considered to be a general law
 in relation to the recovery of debts. Whereas, the
 RDDB Act may be considered to be a special law in
 relation to the recovery of debts and SICA may be
 considered to be a general law in this regard. For this
 purpose we rely on the decision in LIC v. Vijay
 Bahadur [(1981) 1 SCC 315 : 1981 SCC (L&S) 111] .
 Normally the latter of the two would prevail on the
 principle that the legislature was aware that it had
 enacted the earlier Act and yet chose to enact the
 subsequent Act with a non obstante clause. In this
 case, however, the express intendment of Parliament
 in the non obstante clause of the RDDB Act does not
 permit us to take that view. Though the RDDB Act is
 the later enactment, sub-section (2) of Section 34 thereof specifically provides that the provisions of the
 Act or the Rules made thereunder shall be in addition
 to, and not in derogation of, the other laws mentioned
 therein including SICA. 49. The term “not in derogation” clearly expresses the
 intention of Parliament not to detract from or abrogate
 the provisions of SICA in any way. This, in effect must
 mean that Parliament intended the proceedings under
 SICA for reconstruction of a sick company to go on
 and for that purpose further intended that all the other
 proceedings against the company and its properties
 should be stayed pending the process of
 reconstruction. While the term “proceedings” under Section 22 of SICA did not originally include the RDDB
 Act, which was not there in existence. Section 22 covers proceedings under the RDDB Act.” 26. In view of Section 34(2) of the Recovery Act, this Court held

that despite the fact that the non-obstante clause contained in the

Recovery Act is later in time than the non-obstante clause

contained in the Sick Act, in the event of a conflict, the Recovery

Act i.e. the later Act must give way to the Sick Act i.e. the earlier 83 Act. Several judgments were referred to in which ordinarily a later

Act containing a non-obstante clause must be held to have

primacy over an earlier Act containing a non-obstante clause, as

Parliament must be deemed to be aware of the fact that the later

Act is intended to override all earlier statutes including those which

contained non-obstante clauses. This statement of the law was

departed from in KSL & Industries (supra) only because of the

presence of a Section like Section 88 of RERA contained in the

Recovery Act, which makes it clear that the Act is meant to be in

addition to and not in derogation of other statutes. In the present

case, it is clear that both tests are satisfied, namely, that the Code

as amended, is both later in point of time than RERA, and must

be given precedence over RERA, given Section 88 of RERA. 27. In fact, in Bank of India v. Ketan Parekh (2008) 8 SCC

148, this Court held that Section 9A of the Special Court (Trial of

Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992

(hereinafter referred to as the “ Special Court Act ”) must be

considered to be legislation that is subsequent to the Recovery

Act, since Section 9A was introduced by amendment, into the Special Court Act after the Recovery Act. Needless to add, both

statutes contained non-obstante clauses. This Court held: 84 28. It is clear, therefore, that even by a process of harmonious

construction, RERA and the Code must be held to co-exist, and,

in the event of a clash, RERA must give way to the Code. RERA,

therefore, cannot be held to be a special statute which, in the case

of a conflict, would override the general statute, viz. the Code. 29. As a matter of fact, the Code and RERA operate in

completely different spheres. The Code deals with a proceeding

in rem in which the focus is the rehabilitation of the corporate

debtor. This is to take place by replacing the management of the 85 corporate debtor by means of a resolution plan which must be

accepted by 66% of the Committee of Creditors, which is now put

at the helm of affairs, in deciding the fate of the corporate debtor.

Such resolution plan then puts the same or another management

in the saddle, subject to the provisions of the Code, so that the

corporate debtor may be pulled out of the woods and may

continue as a going concern, thus benefitting all stakeholders

involved. It is only as a last resort that winding up of the corporate

debtor is resorted to, so that its assets may be liquidated and paid

out in the manner provided by Section 53 of the Code. On the

other hand, RERA protects the interests of the individual investor

in real estate projects by requiring the promoter to strictly adhere

to its provisions. The object of RERA is to see that real estate

projects come to fruition within the stated period and to see that

allottees of such projects are not left in the lurch and are finally

able to realise their dream of a home, or be paid compensation if

such dream is shattered, or at least get back monies that they had

advanced towards the project with interest. At the same time,

recalcitrant allottees are not to be tolerated, as they must also

perform their part of the bargain, namely, to pay instalments as

and when they become due and payable. Given the different

spheres within which these two enactments operate, different 86 parallel remedies are given to allottees – under RERA to see that

their flat/apartment is constructed and delivered to them in time,

barring which compensation for the same and/or refund of

amounts paid together with interest at the very least comes their

way. If, however, the allottee wants that the corporate debtor’s

management itself be removed and replaced, so that the

corporate debtor can be rehabilitated, he may prefer a Section 7 application under the Code. That another parallel remedy is

available is recognised by RERA itself in the proviso to Section

71(1) , by which an allottee may continue with an application

already filed before the Consumer Protection fora, he being given

the choice to withdraw such complaint and file an application

before the adjudicating officer under RERA read with Section 88 . In similar circumstances, this Court in Swaraj Infrastructure

Private Limited v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (2019) 3 SCC

620 has held that Debt Recovery Tribunal proceedings under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,

1993 and winding up proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956 can carry on in parallel streams (see paragraphs 21 and 22

therein). Financial and Operational Creditors 87 30. In Innoventive Industries v. ICICI Bank & Anr. (2018) 1

SCC 407, this Court after setting out some of the sections of the

Code, laid down the Scheme of the Code when it came to financial

and operational creditors triggering the Code against a Corporate

debtor. This Court held: section (7), the adjudicating authority shall then
communicate the order passed to the financial creditor
and corporate debtor within 7 days of admission or
rejection of such application, as the case may be. 29. The scheme of Section 7 stands in contrast with
the scheme under Section 8 where an operational
creditor is, on the occurrence of a default, to first
deliver a demand notice of the unpaid debt to the 89 operational debtor in the manner provided in Section
 8(1) of the Code. Under Section 8(2) , the corporate
 debtor can, within a period of 10 days of receipt of the
 demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in
 sub-section (1), bring to the notice of the operational
 creditor the existence of a dispute or the record of the
 pendency of a suit or arbitration proceedings, which is
 pre-existing—i.e. before such notice or invoice was
 received by the corporate debtor. The moment there
 is existence of such a dispute, the operational creditor
 gets out of the clutches of the Code. 30. On the other hand, as we have seen, in the case
 of a corporate debtor who commits a default of a
 financial debt, the adjudicating authority has merely to
 see the records of the information utility or other
 evidence produced by the financial creditor to satisfy
 itself that a default has occurred. It is of no matter that
 the debt is disputed so long as the debt is “due” i.e.
 payable unless interdicted by some law or has not yet
 become due in the sense that it is payable at some
 future date. It is only when this is proved to the
 satisfaction of the adjudicating authority that the
 adjudicating authority may reject an application and
 not otherwise.”

 (emphasis supplied) 31. Likewise, in Swiss Ribbons (supra), this Court while

repelling a challenge to the constitutional validity of the Code

based on a purported infraction of Article 14 , differentiated

between financial and operational creditors. In so doing, it made it

clear that the context of the decision dealt with banks and financial

institutions as financial creditors as opposed to operational

creditors who could be corporations or individuals to whom monies 90 were owed for goods and/or services. In certain circumstances,

financial creditors could also be individuals, such as debenture

holders and fixed deposit holders, who were then spoken of as

follows: What is important is that at this stage, if an application
is filed before the adjudicating authority for initiating
the corporate insolvency resolution process, the
corporate debtor can prove that the debt is disputed.
When the debt is so disputed, such application would
be rejected. xxx xxx xxx 46. However, the Insolvency Law Committee (ILC), in
its Report of March 2018 dealt with debenture-holders
and fixed deposit-holders, who are also financial
creditors, and are numerous. The Report then went on
to state: 47. Given this Report, the Code was amended and Sections 21 (6-A) and 21(6-B) were added, which are
set out hereinbelow: (6-B) The remuneration payable to the authorised
representative— (i) under clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (6-A), if
any, shall be as per the terms of the financial debt or
the relevant documentation; and (ii) under clause (b) of sub-section (6-A) shall be as
specified which shall form part of the insolvency
resolution process costs.” 48. Also, Regulations 16-A and 16-B of the Insolvency
and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution
Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016
(the CIRP Regulations) were added, with effect from
4-7-2018, as follows: regulation (1) within two days of the verification of
claims received under sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 12.

(3) Any delay in appointment of the authorised
representative for any class of creditors shall not affect
the validity of any decision taken by the committee.

(4) The interim resolution professional shall provide
the list of creditors in each class to the respective
authorised representative appointed by the
adjudicating authority. (5) The interim resolution professional or the resolution
professional, as the case may be, shall provide an
updated list of creditors in each class to the respective
authorised representative as and when the list is
updated. Clarification: The authorised representative shall have
no role in receipt or verification of claims of creditors
of the class he represents. (6) The interim resolution professional or the resolution
professional, as the case may be, shall provide
electronic means of communication between the
authorised representative and the creditors in the
class. (7) The voting share of a creditor in a class shall be in
proportion to the financial debt which includes an
interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum unless
a different rate has been agreed to between the
parties. (8) The authorised representative of creditors in a
class shall be entitled to receive fee for every meeting 95 of the committee attended by him in the following
manner, namely: (9) The authorised representative shall circulate the
agenda to creditors in a class and announce the voting
window at least twenty-four hours before the window
opens for voting instructions and keep the voting
window open for at least twelve hours. 16-B. Committee with only creditors in a class. —
Where the corporate debtor has only creditors in a
class and no other financial creditor eligible to join the
committee, the committee shall consist of only the
authorised representative(s).” 49. It is obvious that debenture-holders and persons
with home loans may be numerous and, therefore,
have been statutorily dealt with by the aforesaid
change made in the Code as well as the Regulations.
However, as a general rule, it is correct to say that
financial creditors, which involve banks and financial
institutions, would certainly be smaller in number than
operational creditors of a corporate debtor.

xxx xxx xxx 61. Insofar as set-off and counterclaim is concerned,
a set-off of amounts due from financial creditors is a
rarity. Usually, financial debts point only in one way—
amounts lent have to be repaid. However, it is not as
if a legitimate set-off is not to be considered at all. Such
set-off may be considered at the stage of filing of proof
of claims during the resolution process by the
resolution professional, his decision being subject to 96 challenge before the adjudicating authority under Section 60 .”

The Article 14 Challenge (I): Discrimination 32. Learned counsel for the Petitioners have emphasised that

treating allottees to be financial creditors is discriminatory

inasmuch as unequals are treated equally, equals are treated

unequally, and both are without any intelligible differentia having

any nexus with the objects of the Code. It is argued that

discrimination arises, equals being treated as unequal, as real

estate developers are differentiated from other entities who supply

goods or services and would, therefore, be discriminated against

as, in the case of real estate developers, all that an allottee would

have to show is that a debt is due to him, whereas in the cases of

persons supplying goods or services if there exists any pre-

existing dispute between the operational debtor and the person

who purchases the goods or avails of the services, the operational

debtor would be outside the clutches of the Code. It was also

argued that unequals are treated as equals as banks and financial

institutions are completely different from real estate developers,

as has been recognised in Swiss Ribbons (supra), and to treat 97 these unequals as equals by making real estate developers

financial debtors, again infracts Article 14. 33. When Article 14 is alleged to have been infracted by

legislation which is economic in nature, it is important to first

restate a few fundamental principles. In Ram Krishna Dalmia v.

Justice S.R. Tendolkar (1959) SCR 279, this Court laid down the

oft quoted principles that apply when challenges on the ground of

discrimination are made to statutes. This Court held: known reasons for subjecting certain individuals
 or corporations to hostile or discriminating
 legislation. (at page 297, 298)” 34. This principle has been re-iterated by this Court in State of

Bihar v. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (P) Ltd. (2005) 2

SCC 762 at 783 and more recently in Karnataka Live Band

Restaurants Assn. v. State of Karnataka (2018) 4 SCC 372 at

393 where this Court re-iterated the principles to test legislation on

the touchstone of Article 14 as laid down by this Court in Ram

Krishna Dalmia (supra), wherein as extracted above, this Court

held that the legislature is free to recognise degrees of harm and 99 confine its application to those cases where the need is deemed

to be the clearest. 35. In State of Gujarat and Anr. v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd.,

Ahmedabad , etc. (1974) 4 SCC 656, this Court dealt with

classifications that are under-inclusive and held, particularly with

regard to economic legislation, that such under-inclusion would

not result in the death-knell of such laws on the anvil of Article 14. This Court put it thus: inclusive, when it is seen that all factories
employing 10 or 20 persons, as the case may
be, have been included and that the purpose of
the law is to get in unpaid accumulations for the
welfare of the labour. Since the classification
does not include all who are similarly situated
with respect to the purpose of the law, the
classification might appear, at first blush, to be
unreasonable. But the Court has recognised the
very real difficulties under which legislatures
operate — difficulties arising out of both the
nature of the legislative process and of the
society which legislation attempts perennially to
re-shape — and it has refused to strike down
indiscriminately all legislation embodying
classificatory inequality here under
consideration. Mr Justice Holmes, in urging 101 tolerance of under-inclusive classifications,
stated that such legislation should not be
disturbed by the Court unless it can clearly see
that there is no fair reason for the law which
would not require with equal force its extension
to those whom it leaves untouched. [
Missouri, K&T Rly v. May, 194 US 267, 269]
What, then, are the fair reasons for non- extension? What should a court do when it is
faced with a law making an under-inclusive
classification in areas relating to economic and
tax matters? Should it, by its judgment, force the
legislature to choose between inaction or
perfection? xxx xxx xxx 66. That the legislation is directed to practical
problems, that the economic mechanism is
highly sensitive and complex, that many
problems are singular and contingent that laws
are not abstract propositions and do not relate to
abstract units and are not to be measured by
abstract symmetry, that exact wisdom and nice
adaption of remedies cannot be required, that
judgment is largely a prophecy based on meagre
and uninterpreted experience, should stand as
reminder that in this area the Court does not take
the equal protection requirement in a pedagogic
manner [ See “General Theory of Law and
State”, p. 161] . 67. In the utilities, tax and economic regulation
cases, there are good reasons for judicial self-
restraint if not judicial deference to legislative
judgment. The legislature after all has the
affirmative responsibility. The Courts have only
the power to destroy, not to reconstruct. When
these are added to the complexity of economic
regulation, the uncertainty, the liability to error,
the bewildering conflict of the experts, and the
number of times the judges have been overruled
by events — self-limitation can be seen to be the 102 path to judicial wisdom and institutional prestige
 and stability. [See “General Theory of Law and
 State”, p. 161]

 xxx xxx xxx 71. The Court must be aware of its own
 remoteness and lack of familiarity with local
 problems. Classification is dependent on the
 peculiar needs and specific difficulties of the
 community. The needs and difficulties of the
 community are constituted out of facts and
 opinions beyond the easy ken of the Court [ See
 “General Theory of Law and State”, p. 161] . It
 depends to a great extent upon an assessment
 of the local condition of these concerns which
 the legislature alone was competent to make.” 36. In V.C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Administration ) 1980

Supp. SCC 249, this Court further elaborated: 37. Equally, it is important to note that classification need not

be perfect. In Venkateshwara Theatre v. State of A.P. (1993) 3

SCC 677 this Court held: 104 Classification would be justified if it is not
palpably arbitrary. (See : Re, Special Courts Bill,
1978 [(1979) 1 SCC 380 : (1979) 2 SCR 476,
534-36] .) If there is equality and uniformity
within each group, the law will not be
condemned as discriminative, though due to
some fortuitous circumstance arising out of a
peculiar situation some included in a class get
an advantage over others, so long as they are
not singled out for special treatment. (See: Khandige Sham Bhat v. Agricultural
I.T.O. [(1963) 3 SCR 809, 817: AIR 1963 SC
591: (1963) 48 ITR 21])

 (emphasis supplied) 105 xxx xxx xxx 23. Just as a difference in the treatment of
persons similarly situate leads to discrimination,
so also discrimination can arise if persons who
are unequals, i.e. differently placed, are treated
similarly. In such a case failure on the part of the
legislature to classify the persons who are
dissimilar in separate categories and applying
the same law, irrespective of the differences,
brings about the same consequence as in a case
where the law makes a distinction between
persons who are similarly placed. A law
providing for equal treatment of unequal objects,
transactions or persons would be condemned as
discriminatory if there is absence of rational
relation to the object intended to be achieved by
the law. xxx xxx xxx 29. In the instant case, we find that the
legislature has prescribed different rates of tax
by classifying theatres into different classes,
namely, air-conditioned, air-cooled, ordinary
(other than air-conditioned and air-cooled),
permanent and semi-permanent and touring and
temporary. The theatres have further been
categorised on the basis of the type of the local
area in which they are situate. It cannot,
therefore, be said that there has been no attempt
on the part of the legislature to classify the
cinema theatres taking into consideration the
differentiating circumstances for the purpose of
imposition of tax. The grievance of the
appellants is that the classification is not perfect.
What they want is that there should have been
further classification amongst the theatres falling
in the same class on the basis of the location of
the theatre in each local area. We do not think
that such a contention is well founded.” 106 38. Also, in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India (2004)

4 SCC 311, this Court held that Parliamentary intent cannot be

thwarted even if it operates a bit harshly on a small section of the

public, if otherwise made in the larger public interest. This Court

said: In Fatehchand Himmatlal [(1977) 2 SCC 670]
 where debts of the agriculturists were wiped off,
 this Court observed: He may never get his full money back together with interest in the

event that no suitable resolution plan is forthcoming, in which

case, winding up of the corporate debtor alone would ensue. On

the other hand, if such allottee were to approach the Real Estate

Regulatory Authority under RERA, it is more than likely that the

project would be completed early by the persons mentioned

therein, and/or full amount of refund and interest together with

compensation and penalty, if any, would be awarded. Thus, given

the bona fides of the allottee who moves an application under Section 7 of the Code, it is only such allottee who has completely

lost faith in the management of the real estate developer who

would come before the NCLT under the Code hoping that some

other developer takes over and completes the project, while

always taking the risk that if no one were to come forward,

corporate death must ensue and the allottee must then stand in

line to receive whatever is given to him in winding up. Given the

reasons of the Insolvency Committee Report, which show that 109 experience of the real estate sector in this country has not been

encouraging, in that huge amounts are advanced by ordinary

people to finance housing projects which end up in massive delays

on the part of the developer or even worse, i.e. failure of the project

itself, and given the state of facts which was existing at the time of

the legislation, as adverted to by the Insolvency Committee

Report, it is clear that any alleged discrimination has to meet the

tests laid down in Ram Krishna Dalmia (supra), V.C. Shukla (supra), Shri Ambica Mills (supra), Venkateshwara Theatre (supra) and Mardia Chemicals (supra). 40. It is impossible to say that classifying real estate

developers is not founded upon an intelligible differentia which

distinguishes them from other operational creditors, nor is it

possible to say that such classification is palpably arbitrary having

no rational relation to the objects of the Code. It was vehemently

argued by learned counsel on behalf of the Petitioners that if at all

real estate developers were to be brought within the clutches of

the Code, being like operational debtors, at best they could have

been brought in under this rubric and not as financial debtors.

Here again, what is unique to real estate developers vis-à-vis

operational debts, is the fact that, in operational debts generally, 110 when a person supplies goods and services, such person is the

creditor and the person who has to pay for such goods and

services is the debtor. In the case of real estate developers, the

developer who is the supplier of the flat/apartment is the debtor

inasmuch as the home buyer/allottee funds his own apartment by

paying amounts in advance to the developer for construction of

the building in which his apartment is to be found. Another vital

difference between operational debts and allottees of real estate

projects is that an operational creditor has no interest in or stake

in the corporate debtor, unlike the case of an allottee of a real

estate project, who is vitally concerned with the financial health of

the corporate debtor, for otherwise, the real estate project may not

be brought to fruition. Also, in such event, no compensation, nor

refund together with interest, which is the other option, will be

recoverable from the corporate debtor. One other important

distinction is that in an operational debt, there is no consideration

for the time value of money – the consideration of the debt is the

goods or services that are either sold or availed of from the

operational creditor. Payments made in advance for goods and

services are not made to fund manufacture of such goods or

provision of such services. Examples given of advance payments

being made for turnkey projects and capital goods, where 111 customisation and uniqueness of such goods are important by

reason of which advance payments are made, are wholly

inapposite as examples vis-à-vis advance payments made by

allottees. In real estate projects, money is raised from the allottee,

being raised against consideration for the time value of money.

Even the total consideration agreed at a time when the

flat/apartment is non-existent or incomplete, is significantly less

than the price the buyer would have to pay for a ready/complete

flat/apartment, and therefore, he gains the time value of money.

Likewise, the developer who benefits from the amounts disbursed

also gains from the time value of money. The fact that the allottee

makes such payments in instalments which are co-terminus with

phases of completion of the real estate project does not any the

less make such payments as payments involving “exchange”, i.e.

advances paid only in order to obtain a flat/apartment. What is

predominant, insofar as the real estate developer is concerned, is

the fact that such instalment payments are used as a means of

finance qua the real estate project. One other vital difference with

operational debts is the fact that the documentary evidence for

amounts being due and payable by the real estate developer is

there in the form of the information provided by the real estate

developer compulsorily under RERA. This information, like the 112 information from information utilities under the Code, makes it

easy for home buyers/allottees to approach the NCLT under Section 7 of the Code to trigger the Code on the real estate

developer’s own information given on its webpage as to delay in

construction, etc. It is these fundamental differences between the

real estate developer and the supplier of goods and services that

the legislature has focused upon and included real estate

developers as financial debtors. This being the case, it is clear that

there cannot be said to be any infraction of equal protection of the

laws. 41. Shri Shyam Divan relying upon Nagpur Improvement

Trust and Anr. v. Vithal Rao and Ors. (1973) 1 SCC 500 at

paragraph 26 and Subramanian Swamy v. Director, Central

Bureau of Investigation and Anr. (2014) 8 SCC 682 at

paragraphs 44, 58 and 68 argued that the object of the

amendment is itself discriminatory in that it seeks to insert into a

“means and includes” definition a category which does not fit

therein, namely, real estate developers who do not, in the classical

sense, borrow monies like banks and financial institutions.

According to him, therefore, the object itself being discriminatory,

the inclusion of real estate developers as financial debtors should 113 be struck down. We have already pointed out how real estate

developers are, in substance, persons who avail finance from

allottees who then fund the real estate development project. The

object of dividing debts into two categories under the Code,

namely, financial and operational debts, is broadly to sub-divide

debts into those in which money is lent and those where debts are

incurred on account of goods being sold or services being

rendered. We have no doubt that real estate developers fall

squarely within the object of the Code as originally enacted insofar

as they are financial debtors and not operational debtors, as has

been pointed out hereinabove. So far as unequals being treated

as equals is concerned, home buyers/allottees can be assimilated

with other individual financial creditors like debenture holders and

fixed deposit holders, who have advanced certain amounts to the

corporate debtor. For example, fixed deposit holders, though

financial creditors, would be like real estate allottees in that they

are unsecured creditors. Financial contracts in the case of these

individuals need not involve large sums of money. Debenture

holders and fixed deposit holders, unlike real estate holders, are

involved in seeing that they recover the amounts that are lent and

are thus not directly involved or interested in assessing the viability

of the corporate debtors. Though not having the expertise or 114 information to be in a position to evaluate feasibility and viability of

resolution plans, such individuals, by virtue of being financial

creditors, have a right to be on the Committee of Creditors to

safeguard their interest. Also, the question that is to be asked

when a debenture holder or fixed deposit holder prefers a Section

7 application under the Code will be asked in the case of allottees

of real estate developers – is a debt due in fact or in law? Thus,

allottees, being individual financial creditors like debenture

holders and fixed deposit holders and classified as such, show

that they within the larger class of financial creditors, there being

no infraction of Article 14 on this score. 42. The presumption that the legislature has understood and

correctly appreciated the need of its people and that the

amendment to the Code is directed to problems made manifest by

experience, as was pointed out by the Insolvency Law Committee

findings (supra) demonstrates that the presumption of

constitutionality that attaches to the Amendment Act has not been

displaced by the Petitioners. 43. It was also argued with reference to Regulation 9A of the

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution

Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 that home 115 buyers would really fall within “other creditors” as a residuary

class, who would have to stand in line with their claims which

would be made to the resolution professional once the Code is

triggered. Regulation 9A reads as follows: satisfaction of claim; (iii) an order of court or tribunal that has
 adjudicated upon non-satisfaction of claim, if
 any.”

We have already held that given the fact that home

buyers/allottees give advances to the real estate developer and

thereby finance the real estate project at hand, are really financial 116 creditors. Given this finding, this plea of the Petitioners must also

be rejected. This challenge must also, therefore, fail.

The Article 14 Challenge (II): Manifest arbitrariness; Article

19(1)(g) and Article 300-A 44. Counsel for the Petitioners argued that a square peg has

been fitted in a round hole and have thus stated that doing so

would not only be contrary to the objects sought to achieved by

the Code, but would be directly contrary to Swiss Ribbons (supra) in that every characteristic of financial creditors vis-à-vis

operational creditors would show that real estate developers are

assimilated to operational and not financial debtors. For this

purpose, in the written argument presented by Dr. Singhvi, relying

upon Swiss Ribbons (supra) it is stated that: ● Financial creditors ● Real estate allottees
 generally lend finance on a make payments to the
 term loan or for working corporate debtors in lieu
 capital that enables the of services rendered –
 corporate debtor to either i.e., construction of
 set up and/or operate its apartments. In several
 business. On the other cases, payments are also
 hand, contracts with made on a construction-
 operational creditors are linked payment basis.
 relatable to supply of goods
 and services in the operation
 of business. ● In the running of a large in number – often
 business, operational hundreds or thousands, 118 creditors can be many as depending on the size of
opposed to financial the developer and the
creditors, who lend finance number of development
for the set up or working of projects. “financial creditors are, from investment, and not the
 the very beginning, involved financial well-being of, or
 with assessing the viability ensuring the continuity of,
 of the corporate debtor. the corporate debtor as a
 They can, and therefore do, going-concern. Further,
 engage in restructuring of allottees in different real
 the loan as well as estate projects of a
 reorganization of the corporate debtor, may
 corporate debtor’s business have different interests
 when there is financial confined only to that
 stress, which are things particular development,
 operational creditors do not with no interest in the
 and cannot do. Thus, overall well-being or
 preserving the corporate rearrangement or viability
 debtor as a going concern, of the Company. If such
 while ensuring maximum allottees are vested with 120 recovery for all creditors decision making powers
 being the objective of the concerning the business
 Code, financial creditors are of the enterprise as a
 clearly different from whole, it is unlikely that
 operational creditors and sound financial decisions
 therefore, there is obviously will be taken having
 an intelligible differentia regard to the overall
 between the two which has a status of the entity which
 direct relation to the objects will undoubtedly defeat
 sought to be achieved by the the very purpose and
 Code.” objective of the CIRP
 process. [Para 45] 4. Regarding participation in
 the COC meetings: 5. Regarding process for
 initiation of corporate
 insolvency resolution
 process: ● With respect to set-offs: also due and payable by
 the allottees to the
“a set-off of amounts due developer – i.e.,
from financial creditors is a payments owed to the 124 rarity. Usually, financial developer as per the
debts point only in one way schedule under the
– amounts lent have to be Apartment Buyer’s
repaid.” Agreement, interest on
 delayed payments. Set- ‘default’ in case of section 7 ● In the case of real estate
applications: allottees, in most cases,
 the default has not yet
Whereas a “claim” gives rise occurred since the date of
to a “debt” only when it possession is often
becomes “due”, a “default” extended on account of
occurs only when a “debt” force majeure and other
becomes “due and payable” circumstances. As a
and is not paid by the debtor. result, in such a case, the
It is for this reason that a right of the allottees to
financial creditor has to terminate/cancel their
prove “default” as opposed agreement with the
to an operational creditor developer and seek a
who merely “claims” a right refund of amounts paid
to payment of a liability or would not have arisen in
obligation in respect of a the first place. debt which may be due. When this aspect is borne in
mind, the differentiation in
the triggering of insolvency
resolution process by
financial creditors under Section 7 and by operational
creditors under Sections 8 and 9 of the Code becomes
clear. [Para 59]

 ” 125 45. As has been pointed out by us hereinabove, it is clear that

the context of Swiss Ribbons (supra) was a challenge under Article 14 stating that financial creditors have been discriminated

against because there is no real difference between financial and

operational creditors, and that such artificial distinction made by

the Code, not having been made anywhere else in the world,

would be discriminatory, having no rational relation with the object

sought to be achieved by the Code and would have, therefore, to

be struck down under Article 14. As has been pointed out by us

hereinabove, the context of this argument was financial institutions

and banks on the one hand vis-à-vis operational creditors i.e.

those who supply goods and services, on the other. It is in this

context that the various differences that have been pointed out

hereinabove were made. However, the judgment itself recognises - as has been pointed out by us hereinabove - in paragraphs 46 to

49, that it was not dealing with individual financial creditors, such

as debenture holders, fixed deposit holders and home buyers. To

apply a judgment rendered in a wholly different context to the facts

in the present cases would itself be an arbitrary exercise. What

has been stated hereinabove as to allottees being individual

financial creditors like deposit holders and debenture holders,

applies on all fours to repel this argument based on another facet 126 of Article 14. In fact, the object of the Code, as originally set out in

paragraphs 27 and 28 of Swiss Ribbons (supra) is as follows: 28. It can thus be seen that the primary focus of
 the legislation is to ensure revival and
 continuation of the corporate debtor by
 protecting the corporate debtor from its own
 management and from a corporate death by
 liquidation. The Code is thus a beneficial
 legislation which puts the corporate debtor back
 on its feet, not being a mere recovery legislation
 for creditors. The interests of the corporate
 debtor have, therefore, been bifurcated and
 separated from that of its promoters/those who
 are in management. Thus, the resolution
 process is not adversarial to the corporate
 debtor but, in fact, protective of its interests. The
 moratorium imposed by Section 14 is in the
 interest of the corporate debtor itself, thereby
 preserving the assets of the corporate debtor
 during the resolution process. The timelines
 within which the resolution process is to take
 place again protects the corporate debtor's
 assets from further dilution, and also protects all
 its creditors and workers by seeing that the
 resolution process goes through as fast as
 possible so that another management can,
 through its entrepreneurial skills, resuscitate the
 corporate debtor to achieve all these ends.”

A reading of these paragraphs will show these very objects are

sub-served by treating allottees as financial creditors. The Code

is thus a beneficial legislation which can be triggered to put the

corporate debtor back on its feet in the interest of unsecured

creditors like allottees, who are vitally interested in the financial 128 health of the corporate debtor, so that a replaced management

may then carry out the real estate project as originally envisaged

and deliver the flat/apartment as soon as possible and/or pay

compensation in the event of late delivery, or non-delivery, or

refund amounts advanced together with interest. Thus, applying

the Shayara Bano v. Union of India (2017) 9 SCC 1 test, it

cannot be said that a square peg has been forcibly fixed into a

round hole so as to render Section 5(8)(f) manifestly arbitrary i.e.

excessive, disproportionate or without adequate determining

principle. For the same reason, it cannot be said that Article

19(1)(g) has been infracted and not saved by Article 19(6) as the

Amendment Act is made in public interest, and it cannot be said

to be an unreasonable restriction on the Petitioner’s fundamental

right under Article 19(1)(g). Also, there is no infraction of Article

300-A as no person is deprived of its property without authority of

a constitutionally valid law. 46. It was also argued that the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide,

from which most of the provisions of the Code derive their succour,

have also been breached. This is for the reason that financial

contracts being different from operational contracts, the one

should not be confused with the other. Also, treatment of similarly 129 situated creditors should be the same, and as allottees are like

operational creditors, they should not be treated as financial

creditors. We have already answered these questions in the

context of discrimination and manifest arbitrariness and have

found that, in point of fact, real estate allottees are really in the

nature of financial creditors, and thus the UNCITRAL Legislative

Guide has been followed, and not breached. Equally, it was

argued that creating new creditors’ rights in Insolvency Law, as

opposed to recognising existing creditors’ rights, will infract the

UNCITRAL Legislative Guide. As will be pointed out hereinbelow,

since allottees of real estate projects have always been subsumed

within Section 5(8)(f) , no new rights or claims have been created.

It was also contended that since allottees are then said to have no

expertise or knowledge in the working of the corporate debtor,

they cannot participate effectively in the Committee of Creditors,

and should therefore be kept out. The same answer as has been

given hereinabove, i.e. that allottees, like individual financial

creditors who are already on the Committee of Creditors, are to

have a voice in determining the corporate debtor and their own

future. This contention, therefore, also fails. 130 47. One other argument that is made on behalf of the counsel

for the Petitioners is that allottees of flats/apartments who do not

want refunds, but who want their flats/apartments constructed so

that they may occupy and live in their flats/apartments, will be

jeopardised, as a single allottee who does not want the

flat/apartments, but wants a refund of amounts paid for reasons

best known to him, can trigger the Code and upset the

construction and handing over of such flats/apartments to the vast

bulk of allottees of a project who may be genuine buyers who wish

to occupy such flats/apartments as roofs over their heads. Another

facet of this argument is that the bulk of such persons will never

be on the Committee of Creditors, as they may not be persons

who trigger the Code at all. These arguments are met by the fact

that all the allottees of the project in question can either join

together under the explanation to Section 7(1) of the Code, or file

their own individual petitions after the Code gets triggered by a

single allottee, stating that in addition to the construction of their

flat/apartment, they are also entitled to compensation under RERA

and/or under the general law, and would thus be persons who

have a “claim”, i.e. a right to remedy for breach of contract which

gives rise to a right to compensation, whether or not such right is

reduced to judgment, and would therefore be persons to whom a 131 liability or obligation in respect of a “claim” is due. Such persons

would, therefore, have a voice in the Committee of Creditors as to

future plans for completion of the project, and compensation for

late delivery of the flat/apartment. This contention therefore also

has no legs to stand upon. 48. It was then argued that placing allottees as financial

creditors is directly contrary to the object of the Code in

maximising the value of assets and putting the corporate debtor

back on its feet. We may only state that if a Section 7 application

is admitted in favour of an allottee, and if the management of the

corporate debtor is in fact a strong and stable one, nothing debars

the same erstwhile management from offering a resolution plan,

subject to Section 29A of the Code, which may well be accepted

by the Committee of Creditors in which home buyers now have a

voice. Equally, to assume that the moment the insolvency

resolution process starts, corporate death must ensue is wholly

incorrect. If the real estate project is otherwise viable, resolution

plans from others may well be accepted and the best of these

would then work in order to maximise the value of the assets of

the corporate debtor. Corporate death, as has been stated in Swiss Ribbons (supra) is the last resort under the Code after all 132 other available options have failed. This argument again need not

deter us further. 49. It was then stated that there will be a flood of petitions

before the NCLT, and as the NCLT has to decide within a period

of 14 days, there will only be a summary decision in which a

complicated agreement entered into between home buyer and

real estate developer will not be gone into in order to discover

whether a debt is due and payable. Coupled with this argument,

is the alternative argument that, given the fact that RERA

adequately looks after the rights and interests of allottees, to apply

the Code would then be manifestly arbitrary, as a management

which may have infused large funds to develop the real estate

project would then be summarily removed. A supplementary

argument was made that this would also infract Article 19(1)(g) and 300-A , as a person who invests a huge sum of money from

its own resources or borrowed resources, would then be left in the

lurch the moment the insolvency resolution process is admitted. 50. The answer to these contentions is provided by reading

some of the provisions of RERA. Under paragraph 3 of the

Statement of Objects and Reasons of RERA, one of the important

reasons for enacting the RERA is to “establish symmetry of 133 information between the promoter and purchaser”. This is

achieved through Section 4 , where every promoter in its

application to the authority for registration under sub-clause (2)(b),

has to include the current status of the project, any delay in its

completion, details of cases pending, payments pending etc.

Equally, under sub-clause (g), the proforma of the allotment letter,

agreement for sale and conveyance deed proposed to be signed

with the allottee are all to be furnished. Also, under sub-clause (l)(C), the time period within which he undertakes to complete the

project is also to be stated. Above all, under Section 4(3) read with Section 11 , the authority is to operationalise a web-based online

system in which the promoter shall, upon receiving his Login Id

and password, create a webpage on the website of the authority

to enter all details as required by Section 4(2) , including quarterly

update of the status of the project and the stage-wise time

schedule of completion of the project. Also, under Section 7 , the

Authority may revoke registration for various reasons, and under Section 7(4)(a) shall debar the promoter from accessing its

website in relation to that project, and thereafter specify its name

in the list of defaulters and display its photograph on the website

and inform other Real Estate Regulatory Authorities in other

States and Union Territories about such revocation. Equally, 134 under Section 13(2) , the prescribed agreement for sale, which is

to be entered into between the promoter and allottee, must clearly

state the date on which possession of the apartment, plot or

building is to be handed over, the rates of interest payable by the

promoter to the allottee in the case of default and such other

particulars, as may be prescribed. We were then referred to the

‘Andaman and Nicobar Islands Real Estate (Regulation and

Development) (General) Rules, 2016’ to give us a flavour of what

is actually prescribed by the Rules made by States and Union

Territories under RERA. Here, Rule 14 of these Rules speaks of

details to be published on the website; and among other details,

Rule 14(1)(d) states that the following details shall be uploaded by

the promoter: Given the above, it is clear that it is very difficult to accede to the

Petitioners’ contention that a wholly one-sided and futile hearing

will take place before the NCLT by trigger-happy allottees who

would be able to ignite the process of removal of the management

of the real estate project and/or lead the corporate debtor to its

death. 51. At this juncture it is necessary to deal with the argument of

the Petitioners that as the NCLT is given only 14 days in which to 138 adjudicate on “default”, the NCLT cannot, in such a summary

proceeding, give detailed findings based on arguments raised by

the allottees which are then countered with reference to a large

number of documents and complicated statutory provisions, and

which entail detailed arguments, which are then put forward by

real estate developers. 52. This Court, while dealing with timelines provided qua

operational creditors, in Surendra Trading Company (supra),

held that the timelines contained in the provisos to Section 7(5) , Section 9(5) and Section 10(4) of the Code are all directory and

not mandatory. This is for the obvious reason that no

consequence is provided if the periods so mentioned are

exceeded. Though this decision is not in the context of the 14-day

period provided by Section 7(4) , we are of the view that this

judgment would apply squarely on all fours so that the period of

14 days given to the NCLT for decision under Section 7(4) would

be directory. We are conscious of the fact that under Section 64(1) of the Code, the NCLT President or the Chairperson of the NCLAT

may, after taking into account reasons by the NCLT or NCLAT for

exceeding the period mentioned by statute, extend the period of

14 days by a period not exceeding 10 days. We may note that 139 even this provision is directory, in that no consequence is provided

either if the period is not extended, or after the extension expires.

This is also for the good reason that an act of the court cannot

harm the litigant before it. Unfortunately, both the NCLT and

NCLAT do not have sufficient members to deal with the flood of

applications and appeals that is before them. The time taken in

the queue by applicants who knock at their doors cannot, for no

fault of theirs, be put against them. This Court, in State of Bihar

v. Bihar Rajya Bhumi Vikas Bank Samiti (2018) 9 SCC 472, has

held in the context of Section 34(5) of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996, that the absence of any consequences for

infraction of a procedural provision implies that such a provision

must be interpreted as being directory and not mandatory. The

Court held thus: Challenge to Section 21(6A) and 25A of the Code 53. In the challenge to Section 21(6A) and Section 25A of the

Code, it has been argued by learned counsel for the Petitioners

that the allottees would fall in the following five categories and

cannot be said, therefore, to be a homogenous class. A glance at

the five categories would show, they argue, that they have, in fact,

conflicting interests. These five categories are stated to be as

follows: 141 54. It has been argued that different instructions may be given

by different allottees making it difficult for the authorised

representatives to vote on the Committee of Creditors and that in

any case, the collegiality of the secured creditors will be disturbed.

To this the answer is that like other financial creditors, be they

banks and financial institutions, or other individuals, all persons

who have advanced monies to the corporate debtor should have

the right to be on the Committee of Creditors. True, allottees are

unsecured creditors, but they have a vital interest in amounts that

are advanced for completion of the project, maybe to the extent of

100% of the project being funded by them alone. As has been

correctly argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General, under

the proviso to Section 21(8) of the Code if the corporate debtor

has no financial creditors, then under Regulation 16 of the 142 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution

Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016, up to 18

operational creditors then become the Committee of Creditors or,

if there are more than 18 operational creditors, the highest in order

of debt owed to operational creditors to the extent of the first 18

are then represented on the Committee of Creditors together, with

a representative of the workers. If allottees who have funded a real

estate project of the corporate debtor to the extent of 100% are

neither financial creditors nor operational creditors, the

mechanism of the Committee of Creditors, who is now to take

decisions after the Code is triggered as to the future of the

corporate debtor, will be non-existent in a case where there are no

operational creditors and no secured creditors, because 100% of

the project is funded by the allottees. Even otherwise, as correctly

argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General, it would in fact

be manifestly arbitrary to omit allottees from the Committee of

Creditors when they are vitally interested in the future of the

corporate debtor as they have funded anywhere from 50% to

100% of the project in most cases. 55. On this point, we were referred to the Insolvency and

Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2019, which has just passed 143 through the Parliament, to amend the provisions of the Code in

various aspects. What is interesting is the insertion of Section

25A(3A) as follows: 56. Several counsel appearing on behalf of the Petitioners

made alternative submissions stating that if the Constitutional

validity of the impugned provisions is to be upheld, then the

amendment to the Code needs to be read-down so as to make it

conform with Article 14 and 19(1)(g) and 300-A. Different

suggestions were given as to reading down these provisions by

different counsel. According to some of them, before an order

admitting a Section 7 application is made, all the financial creditors

of the corporate debtor could be called to the NCLT so that the

NCLT can then ascertain their views. If the vast majority of them

were to state that they would prefer to remain outside the Code,

then the Section 7 application filed by a single allottee ought to be

dismissed. Another learned counsel stated that there should be a 145 threshold limit by which at least 25% of the total number of

allottees of the project should be reached before they could trigger

the Code. Other learned counsel suggested that at the stage of

the Section 7 application, an inquiry be made to see if the

corporate debtor is otherwise well-managed and is solvent, in

which case the Section 7 application ought to be dismissed. Shri

Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

some of the Petitioners, also suggested that allottees ought not to

be allowed to trigger the Code at all, but that if the Code is

otherwise triggered, they can be members of the Committee of

Creditors to take decisions that will be beneficial to them. It was

also suggested that, before the Code is triggered by an allottee,

there should be a finding of “default” from the authorities under

RERA. This is not unknown to law, and this Court has itself stated,

in another context, that a jurisdictional finding by the Telecom

Regulatory Authority of India must first be obtained before the

Competition Commission of India gives a finding on unfair

competition in the telecom sector, and the case of Competition

Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel Limited and Ors. (2019) 2

SCC 521 was relied upon for this purpose. All these arguments

were really made based on the presumption that some allottees

who may now want to back out of the transaction and get a return 146 of their money owing to factors which may be endemic to them, or

owing to the fact that the market may have slumped as a result of

which the investment made by them in the flat/apartment would

fall flat requiring them to pull out of the transaction, would then be

able to trigger the Code mala fide, and a reading down of these

provisions would, therefore, obviate such problem. All these

arguments have been refuted in detail earlier in this judgment. In

a Section 7 application made by an allottee, the NCLT’s

‘satisfaction’ will be with both eyes open – the NCLT will not turn

a Nelson’s eye to legitimate defences by a real estate developer,

as outlined by us hereinabove. There is, therefore, no necessity to

read into or read down any of these provisions. Also, in Cellular

Operators Association of India v. TRAI (2016) 7 SCC 703, this

Court held that when a provision is cast in definite and

unambiguous language, it is not permissible either to mend or

bend it, even if such recasting is in accord with good reason and

conscience. This Court said: Ltd. v. Queensland [Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.v. Queensland, (1934) 51 CLR 677 (Aust)]
, R. v. Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration, ex p Whybrow &
Co. [R. v. Commonwealth Court of Conciliation
and Arbitration, ex p Whybrow & Co., (1910) 11
CLR 1 (Aust)] and British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd. v. Federal Commr. of Taxation [British
Imperial Oil Co. Ltd. v. Federal Commr. of
Taxation, (1925) 35 CLR 422 (Aust)] .” 148 (emphasis in original) 51. This judgment was followed by a
Constitution Bench of this Court
in DTC v. Mazdoor Congress [DTC v. Mazdoor
Congress, 1991 Supp (1) SCC 600 : 1991 SCC
(L&S) 1213] . In that case, a question arose as
to whether a particular regulation which
conferred power on an authority to terminate the
services of a permanent and confirmed
employee by issuing a notice terminating his
services, or by making payment in lieu of such
notice without assigning any reasons and
without any opportunity of hearing to the
employee, could be said to be violative of the
appellants' fundamental rights. Four of the
learned Judges who heard the case, the Chief
Justice alone dissenting on this aspect, decided
that the regulation cannot be read down, and
must, therefore, be held to be unconstitutional.
In the lead judgment on this aspect by Sawant,
J., this Court stated: (SCC pp. 728-29, para 255)

“255. It is thus clear that the doctrine of reading
down or of recasting the statute can be applied
in limited situations. It is essentially used, firstly,
for saving a statute from being struck down on
account of its unconstitutionality. It is an
extension of the principle that when two
interpretations are possible—one rendering it
constitutional and the other making it
unconstitutional, the former should be preferred.
The unconstitutionality may spring from either
the incompetence of the legislature to enact the
statute or from its violation of any of the
provisions of the Constitution. The second
situation which summons its aid is where the
provisions of the statute are vague and
ambiguous and it is possible to gather the
intentions of the legislature from the object of the
statute, the context in which the provision occurs
and the purpose for which it is made. However,
when the provision is cast in a definite and 149 unambiguous language and its intention is clear,
 it is not permissible either to mend or bend it
 even if such recasting is in accord with good
 reason and conscience. In such circumstances,
 it is not possible for the court to remake the
 statute. Its only duty is to strike it down and leave
 it to the legislature if it so desires, to amend it.
 What is further, if the remaking of the statute by
 the courts is to lead to its distortion that course
 is to be scrupulously avoided. One of the
 situations further where the doctrine can never
 be called into play is where the statute requires
 extensive additions and deletions. Not only it is
 no part of the court's duty to undertake such
 exercise, but it is beyond its jurisdiction to do so.”

 (emphasis in original) 57. Given the fact that the Amendment Act has been held to

be constitutionally valid, and considering that its language is clear

and unambiguous, it is not possible to accede to the contentions

of the Petitioners to read down the clear provisions of the

Amendment Act in the manner suggested by them.

Interpretation of Section 5(8)(f) of the Code 58. Section 5(8)(f) of the Code has been set out in the

beginning of this judgment. What has been argued by learned

counsel on behalf of the Petitioners is that Section 5(8)(f) , as it

originally stood, is an exhaustive provision which must be read

noscitur a sociis, and if so read, sub-clause (f) must take colour

from the other clauses of the provision, all of which show that the 150 sine qua non of a “financial debt” is a loan of money made with or

without interest, which must then be returned as money. This,

according to the learned counsel for the Petitioners, is clear from

even a cursory reading of Section 5(8) . Secondly, according to

learned counsel for the Petitioners, by no stretch of imagination,

could an allottee under a real estate project fall within Section

5(8)(f) , as it originally stood and the explanation must then be read

prospectively i.e. only on and from the date of the Amendment Act.

Several sub-arguments were made on the effect of deeming

fictions generally and on the functions of an explanation to a

Section. Let us address all of these arguments. 59. First and foremost, a financial debt is defined as meaning

a “debt”. “Debt” is defined by Section 3(11) of the Code as follows: This definition in turn takes us to the definition of “claim” in Section 3(6) and “default” in Section 3(12) of the Code which read as follows: xxx xxx xxx

 (12) “default” means non-payment of debt when
 whole or any part of the instalment of the amount
 of debt has become due and payable and is not
 paid by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the
 case may be;” 60. Thus, in order to be a “debt”, there ought to be a liability or

obligation in respect of a “claim” which is due from any person.

“Claim” then means either a right to payment or a right to payment

arising out of breach of contract, and this claim can be made

whether or not such right to payment is reduced to judgment. Then

comes “default”, which in turn refers to non-payment of debt when

whole or any part of the debt has become due and payable and is

not paid by the corporate debtor. Learned counsel for the

Petitioners relied upon the judgment in Union of India v. Raman

Iron Foundry (1974) 2 SCC 231, and, in particular relied strongly

upon the sentence reading: 152 61. The definition of “financial debt” in Section 5(8) then goes

on to state that a “debt” must be “disbursed” against the 153 consideration for time value of money. “Disbursement” is defined

in Black’s Law Dictionary (10th ed.) to mean: 62. Shri Krishnan Venugopal took us to the ACT Borrower’s

Guide to the LMA’s Investment Grade Agreements by Slaughter

and May (Fifth Edition, 2017). In this book “financial indebtedness”

is defined thus: 63. When compared with Section 5(8) , it is clear that Section

5(8) seems to owe its genesis to the definition of “financial

indebtedness” that is contained for the purposes of Investment

Grade Agreements. Shri Venugopal argued that even insofar as

derivative transactions are concerned, it is clear that money alone

is given against consideration for time value of money and a

transaction which is a pure sale agreement between “borrowers”

and “lender” cannot possibly be said to fit within any of the

categories mentioned in Section 5(8) . He relied strongly on the

passage in Slaughter and May’s book which are extracted

hereinbelow: “Any amount raised having the
 “commercial effect of a borrowing”

 A wide range of transactions can be caught
 by paragraph (f), including for example
 forward purchases and sales of currency and
 repo agreements. Conditional and credit sale
 arrangements could also be covered here as
 could certain redeemable shares. The precise scope of this limb can be
 uncertain. Ideally, from the Borrower’s
 perspective, if there are additional categories
 of debt which should be included in “Financial
 Indebtedness”, these should be described
 specifically and this catch- all paragraph,
 deleted. A few strong Borrowers do achieve
 that position. Most, however are required to
 accept the “catch-all” and will therefore need
 to consider which of their liabilities might be 157 caught by it, and whether specific exclusions
 might be required.” 64. What is clear from what Shri Venugopal has read to us is

that a wide range of transactions are subsumed by paragraph (f)

and that the precise scope of paragraph (f) is uncertain. Equally,

paragraph (f) seems to be a “catch all” provision which is really

residuary in nature, and which would subsume within it

transactions which do not, in fact, fall under any of the other sub-

clauses of Section 5(8) . 65. And now to the precise language of Section 5(8)(f) . First

and foremost, the sub-clause does appear to be a residuary

provision which is “catch all” in nature. This is clear from the words

“any amount” and “any other transaction” which means that

amounts that are “raised” under “transactions” not covered by any

of the other clauses, would amount to a financial debt if they had

the commercial effect of a borrowing. The expression “transaction”

is defined by Section 3(33) of the Code as follows: As correctly argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General,

the expression “any other transaction” would include an 158 arrangement in writing for the transfer of funds to the corporate

debtor and would thus clearly include the kind of financing

arrangement by allottees to real estate developers when they pay

instalments at various stages of construction, so that they

themselves then fund the project either partially or completely. 66. Sub-clause (f) Section 5(8) thus read would subsume

within it amounts raised under transactions which are not

necessarily loan transactions, so long as they have the

commercial effect of a borrowing. We were referred to Collins

English Dictionary & Thesaurus (Second Edition, 2000) for the

meaning of the expression “borrow” and the meaning of the

expression “commercial”. They are set out hereinbelow: (of chemicals, etc.) unrefined and produced
 in bulk for use in industry. 5. a commercially 159 sponsored advertisement on radio or
 television.” 67. A perusal of these definitions would show that even though

the Petitioners may be right in stating that a “borrowing” is a loan

of money for temporary use, they are not necessarily right in

stating that the transaction must culminate in money being given

back to the lender. The expression “borrow” is wide enough to

include an advance given by the home buyers to a real estate

developer for “temporary use” i.e. for use in the construction

project so long as it is intended by the agreement to give

“something equivalent” to money back to the home buyers. The

“something equivalent” in these matters is obviously the

flat/apartment. Also of importance is the expression “commercial

effect”. “Commercial” would generally involve transactions having

profit as their main aim. Piecing the threads together, therefore,

so long as an amount is “raised” under a real estate agreement,

which is done with profit as the main aim, such amount would be

subsumed within Section 5(8)(f) as the sale agreement between

developer and home buyer would have the “commercial effect” of

a borrowing, in that, money is paid in advance for temporary use

so that a flat/apartment is given back to the lender. Both parties

have “commercial” interests in the same – the real estate 160 developer seeking to make a profit on the sale of the apartment,

and the flat/apartment purchaser profiting by the sale of the

apartment. Thus construed, there can be no difficulty in stating

that the amounts raised from allottees under real estate projects

would, in fact, be subsumed within Section 5(8)(f) even without

adverting to the explanation introduced by the Amendment Act. 68. However, Dr. Singhvi strongly relied upon the report of the

Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee of November, 2015 and in

particular paragraph 3 of ‘Box 5.2 – Trigger for IRP’ which states

that financial creditors are persons where the liability to the debtor

arises from a “solely” financial transaction. This Committee report,

which led to the enactment of the Code, is an important guide in

understanding the provisions of the Code. However, where the

provisions of the Code, as construed in the light of the objects of

the Code, are clear, the fact that from a huge report one word is

picked up to indicate that all financial creditors must have debtors

who owe money “solely” from financial transactions cannot

possibly have the effect of negating the plain language of Section

5(8)(f) of the Code. In fact, what is important is that the threshold

limit to trigger the Code is purposely kept low – at only one lakh

rupees – making it clear that small individuals may also trigger the 161 Code as financial creditors (as financial creditors include

debenture holders and bond holders), along with banks and

financial institutions to whom crores of money may be due. 69. That this amendment is in fact clarificatory is also made

clear by the Insolvency Committee Report, which expressly uses

the word “clarify”, indicating that the Insolvency Law Committee

also thought that since there were differing judgments and doubts

raised on whether home buyers would or would not be included

within Section 5(8)(f) , it was best to set these doubts at rest by

explicitly stating that they would be so covered by adding an

explanation to Section 5(8)(f) . Incidentally, the Insolvency Law

Committee itself had no doubt that given the ‘financing’ of the

project by the allottees, they would fall within Section 5(8)(f) of the

Code as originally enacted. 70. And now some of the other arguments on behalf of the

Petitioners need to be met. According to learned counsel for the

Petitioners, the expression “means and includes” would indicate

that that the definition section is exhaustive, and this being so,

alien subject matter such as home buyers cannot be inserted

therein. For this proposition, they relied upon P. Kasilingam and 162 Ors. v. P.S.G. College of Technology and Ors. (1995) Supp (2)

SCC 348 at paragraph 19 where this Court held as under: 71. On the other hand, the learned Additional Solicitor General

countered this submission by reference to Krishi Utpadan Mandi

Samiti v. Shankar Industries (1993) Supp (3) SCC 361 (2),

where, at paragraphs 5 and 12, this Court held: 72. This statement of the law, as can be seen from the

quotation hereinabove, is without citation of any authority. In fact,

in Jagir Singh & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. (1976) 2 SCC 942

at paragraphs 11 and 19 to 21 and Mahalakshmi Oil Mills v.

State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. (1989) 1 SCC 164, at

paragraphs 8 and 11 (which has been cited in P. Kasilingam (supra)), this Court set out definition sections where the

expression “means” was followed by some words, after which

came the expression “and includes” followed by other words, just 166 as in the Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti (supra) case. In two other

recent judgments, Bharat Coop. Bank (Mumbai) Ltd. v. Coop.

Bank Employees Union (2007) 4 SCC 685, at paragraphs 12 and

23, and State of West Bengal and Ors. v. Associated

Contractors (2015) 1 SCC 32 at paragraph 14, this Court has

held that wherever the expression “means” is followed by the

expression “and includes” whether with or without additional words

separating “means” from “includes”, these expressions indicate

that the definition provision is exhaustive as a matter of statutory

interpretation. It has also been held that the expression “and

includes” is an expression which extends the definition contained

in words which follow the expression “means”. From this

discussion, two things follow. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti (supra) cannot be said to be good law insofar as its exposition on

“means” and “includes” is concerned, as it ignores earlier

precedents of larger and coordinate benches and is out of sync

with later decisions on the same point. Equally, Dr. Singhvi’s

argument that sub-clauses (a) to (i) of Section 5(8) of the Code

must all necessarily reflect the fact that a financial debt can only

be a debt which is disbursed against the consideration for the time

value of money, and which permeates clauses (a) to (i), cannot be

accepted as a matter of statutory interpretation, as the expression 167 “and includes” speaks of subject matters which may not

necessarily be reflected in the main part of the definition. 73. In any event, as was correctly argued by learned Additional

Solicitor General Mrs. Madhavi Divan, the legislature is not

precluded by way of amendment from inserting words into what

may even be an exhaustive definition. What is an exhaustive

definition is exhaustive for purposes of interpretation of a statute

by the Courts, which cannot bind the legislature when it adds

something to the statute by way of amendment. On this score also,

there is no substance in the aforesaid argument. 74. It was then argued, relying on a large number of judgments

that Section 5(8)(f) must be construed noscitur a sociis with sub-

clauses (a) to (e) and (g) to (i), and so construed would only refer

to loans or other financial transactions which would involve money

at both ends. This, again, is not correct in view of the fact that Section 5(8)(f) is clearly a residuary “catch all” provision, taking

within it matters which are not subsumed within the other sub-

clauses. Even otherwise, in Controller of Estate Duty v. Kantilal

Trikamlal (1976) 4 SCC 643, this Court has held that when an

expression is a residuary one, ejusdem generis will not apply. It

was thus held: 168 75. It is clear from a reading of these judgments that noscitur a

sociis being a mere rule of construction cannot be applied in the

present case as it is clear that wider words have been deliberately

used in a residuary provision, to make the scope of the definition

of “financial debt” subsume matters which are not found in the

other sub-clauses of Section 5(8) . This contention must also,

therefore, be rejected. 76. It remains to deal with arguments on the effect of a

deeming fiction. Under the explanation added to Section 5(8)(f) ,

any amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project

shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of

a borrowing. 77. In every case in which a deeming fiction is to be construed,

the observations of Lord Asquith in a concurring judgment in East

End Dwellings Co. Ltd. v. Finsbury Borough Council (1952)

Appeal Cases 109 are cited. These observations read as follows: 78. But then it was argued that, relying upon Commissioner

of Income Tax, Bombay v. Bombay Trust Corporation AIR

1930 PC 54 at 55, that the reason that a deeming fiction is

introduced is that the subject matter of that fiction is not so in

reality, which why Parliament requires such subject matter be

treated as if it were real. To similar effect are the observations in K. Kamaraja Nadar v. Kunju Thevar and Ors. AIR 1958 SC 687

at paragraph 28, where this Court put it thus: 79. It was also argued, relying upon Delhi Cloth & General

Mills Co. Ltd. and Anr. v. State of Rajasthan and Ors. (1996) 2

SCC 449, that a deeming fiction can only be as to facts and cannot

be the deeming of a legal position. It was further argued relying 175 upon Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited v. Jayaram

Chigurupati and Ors. (2010) 7 SCC 449, that a deeming

provision cannot be destructive of the main provision and cannot

be construed as such. 80. A closer look at Delhi Cloth & General Mills Co. Ltd. (supra) would show that the judgment in essence followed this

Court’s judgment in Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. & Anr. v.

Broach Borough Municipality & Ors. 1969 (2) SCC 283, in that

the validating statute in question had not cured the defect that was

pointed out. This becomes clear on a reading of paragraph 16 and

17 of the judgment which read as follows: The ratio of this judgment, therefore, would have no application to

this case. 82. Equally, in Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited (supra), it

was found that the deeming provision contained in sub-clause (2)

of Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)

Regulations, 1997 flew in the face of the very idea of “persons 177 acting in concert”, as a result of which it was held that a deeming

fiction cannot do away with the very concept of “persons acting in

concert” contained in the main provision. In the present case

however, far from doing away with the concept of a “financial

creditor”, we have already found that the deeming provision is only

clarificatory of the fact that allottees are to be considered as

“financial creditors” for the reasons already given by us

hereinabove. 83. Although a deeming provision is to deem what is not there

in reality, thereby requiring the subject matter to be treated as if it

were real, yet several authorities and judgments show that a

deeming fiction can also be used to put beyond doubt a particular

construction that might otherwise be uncertain. Thus, Stroud’s

Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases (Seventh Edition, 2008),

defines “deemed” as follows: 84. In Hindustan Cooperative Housing Building Society

Limited v. Registrar, Cooperative Societies and Anr. (2009) 14

SCC 302, this Court in dealing with legal fictions generally quoted

a large number of authorities thus at paragraph 17: ‘When a statute gives a definition and then
adds that certain things shall be “deemed” to
be covered by the definition, it matters not
whether without that addition the definition
would have covered them or not.’ (Per Lord
President Cooper
in Ferguson v. McMillan [1954 SLT 109] .) 16. Whether the word ‘deemed’ when used in
a statute established a conclusive or a
rebuttable presumption depended upon the
context (see St. Leon Village Consolidated
School Distt. v. Ronceray [(1960) 23 DLR
(2d) 32] ). ‘…. I … regard its primary function as to bring
in something which would otherwise be 181 excluded.’ (Per Viscount Simonds
 in Barclays Bank v. IRC [1961 AC 509 : 40, paras 13-16.]”

In the present case, it is clear that the deeming fiction that is used

by the explanation is to put beyond doubt the fact that allottees are

to be regarded as financial creditors within the enacting part

contained in Section 5(8)(f) of the Code. 85. It was also argued that an explanation does not enlarge the

scope of the original section and for this purpose S. Sundaram

Pillai (supra) was relied upon. This very judgment recognises, in

paragraph 46, that an explanation does not ordinarily enlarge the

scope of the original Section. But if it does, effect must be given to

the legislative intent notwithstanding the fact that the legislature

has named a provision as an explanation. [See Hiralal Ratanlal

Etc. v. State of U.P and Anr. Etc. (1973) 1 SCC 216 at 225,

followed in paragraph 51 of Sundram Pillai (supra)]. In any case,

it has been found by us that the explanation was added by the 182 Amendment Act only to clarify doubts that had arisen as to

whether home buyers/allottees were subsumed within Section

5(8)(f) . The explanation added to Section 5(8)(f) of the Code by

the Amendment Act does not in fact enlarge the scope of the

original Section as home buyers/allottees would be subsumed

within Section 5(8)(f) as it originally stood as has been held by us

hereinabove. As a matter of statutory interpretation, that

interpretation, which accords with the objects of the statute in

question, particularly when we are dealing with a beneficial

legislation, is always the better interpretation or the “creative

interpretation” which is the modern trend of authority, and which is

reflected in the concurring judgment of Eera (through Dr.

Manjula Krippendorf) v. State (NCT of Delhi) and Anr. (2017)

15 SCC 133 at paragraphs 122 and 127. This argument must,

therefore, also be rejected. 86. We, therefore, hold that allottees/home buyers were

included in the main provision, i.e. Section 5(8)(f) with effect from

the inception of the Code, the explanation being added in 2018

merely to clarify doubts that had arisen. 183 Conclusion

 i. The Amendment Act to the Code does not infringe Articles

 14 , 19(1)(g) read with Article 19(6) , or 300-A of the

 Constitution of India. ii. The RERA is to be read harmoniously with the Code, as

 amended by the Amendment Act. It is only in the event of

 conflict that the Code will prevail over the RERA. Remedies

 that are given to allottees of flats/apartments are therefore

 concurrent remedies, such allottees of flats/apartments

 being in a position to avail of remedies under the Consumer

 Protection Act, 1986 , RERA as well as the triggering of the

 Code. iii. Section 5(8)(f) as it originally appeared in the Code being a

 residuary provision, always subsumed within it allottees of

 flats/apartments. The explanation together with the

 deeming fiction added by the Amendment Act is only

 clarificatory of this position in law. Postscript 87. We have been informed that most of the States and Union

 Territories have established/appointed adjudicating officers, the

 Real Estate Regulatory Authority, as well as the Appellate Tribunal 184 as under the RERA. Yet, despite the fact that 1st May, 2017 has

long gone, some recalcitrant States and Union Territories have yet

to do the needful. We direct that in those States in which the

needful has not been done, in that, only interim or no adjudicating

officer/Real Estate Regulatory Authority and/or Appellate Tribunal

have been appointed/established, such States/Union Territories

are directed to appoint permanent adjudicating officers, a Real

Estate Regulatory Authority and Appellate Tribunal within a period

of three months from the date of this judgment. Copies of this

judgment be sent to the Chief Secretaries of all the States and

Union Territories immediately. To be placed for compliance by

affidavits filed by the Chief Secretaries of these States and Union

Territories within 3 months as aforesaid. Post these matters in the

second week of January, 2020. 88. Given the declaration of the constitutional validity of the

Amendment Act, it is absolutely necessary that the NCLT and

the NCLAT are manned with sufficient members to deal with

litigation that may arise under the Code generally, and from the

real estate sector in particular. For this purpose, an affidavit be

filed by the Union of India within three months from today as to

the steps taken in this behalf. Copy of this judgment be sent to 185 the Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India

immediately. To come up with the compliance report by States

and Union Territories as aforesaid in the second week of

January, 2020. 89. All writ petitions and the civil appeal are disposed of in

the light of this judgment. Stay orders granted by this Court to

continue until the NCLT takes up each application filed by an

allottee/ home buyer to decide the same in light of this judgment.

No order as to costs. ……………………J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 ……………………J.
 (Sanjiv Khanna)

 ……………………J.
 (Surya Kant)

New Delhi; August 9, 2019 186