SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need help finding a therapist for my depressed online friend
DATE: 2023-07-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15b5rqw/need_help_finding_a_therapist_for_my_depressed/

--- POST TEXT ---

For context: [22F] I'm from Nepal. I had met someone from Memari online [25M] through an anime page in March. We got along since both of us were on antidepressants and had common interests on Japan travel and anime. 

At first, we were good friends and helped each other go through one day at a time. But we also got into a situationship kinda thing (big mistake, I know) which got really complicated and he became too toxic over time. I found out only later he was on a break with his girlfriend and I was just a distraction for the time being. His hurtful words, lies, cheating and betrayal made me feel worse. I had severe mental breakdowns. And whenever I tried to create healthy boundaries, he would say suicidal things again and I kept hanging on. He never tried to seek therapy, even abruptly stopped taking meds and didn't go for follow up visits. The cycle repeated for three times. I had to cut him off entirely in May as it got too exhausting and I tried to put my own mental health first.

There was no contact until last week when he texted me through a new account saying he's feeling suicidal again and I'm the last hope for him. I have moved on from the situation and tried to ignore him for my own mental peace and that's how he kept me around for him the last time. But he has been spamming calls and texts. I texted him suicide hotline numbers, reminded him of the things that gave him joy, tried my best to reassure him life is worth living and to see a psychotherapist. I also told him I don't have the energy to interact with him much and to respect the boundaries I've created. (I'd been going through my own new problems lately) But still he is not listening. 

And the thing is, I haven't been able to totally ignore him. Can't take that what-if risk with something like suicide. So I reached out to his elder sister. It took some time to stalk and find her but I texted her everything about us and how he needs a good therapy more than anything right now. We were able to communicate only today. Thankfully, she seems like an understanding person. She told me he locks himself in his room and only eats once a day. He doesn't talk to anyone from his family. He cuts off her calls and ignores whenever she tries to reach him out. And his parents have been hopeless and worried sick about him. They're planning to take him to a doctor on Saturday. She has requested me to talk to him, which I really don't want to. But I think I have to. I really don't know what to do though. I was thinking of recommending his sister the best therapist for him. I know a visit to a psychiatrist and medicines won't be enough for him. From how much I know about him, it's not only depression. He has severe attachment issues, patterns of self sabotage and he needs some deep healing. I just want him to be a healthy person both physically and mentally.

TLDR need recommendations on the best professional therapist near Memari for someone who doesn't believe doctors and medicines can help him anymore and whose family has also kinda given up on him.