(10.08.2017)

 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by : 120-B of IPC and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and fine
of Rs.2000/- in default R.I. For two months, whereas, appellant
Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja Yadav have been convicted for
offences punishable under Sections 364-A r/w 120-B of IPC and
they are sentenced to death sentence each, and fine amount of
Rs.1000/- each, in default of payment of fine amount, they are
sentenced to R.I. for two months each. They have been further
convicted for offence punishable under Section 302 r/w 120-B of IPC , and sentenced to undergo death sentence each and fine of
Rs.1,000/- each, in default of payment of fine amount, they are
sentenced to R.I. for two months each and convicted under Section
201 of IPC, they are sentenced to undergo R.I. for five years each
with fine of Rs.500/- each and in default of fine, R.I. for one month
each. Since death sentence was passed by the Court below,
therefore, the death reference is referred to this Court. 3: Being aggrieved with the aforesaid judgment, conviction and 3 sentences, the accused/appellants has preferred Criminal Appeal
No.83/2017 and Criminal appeal No.84/2017. 4: The prosecution case, in short, is that on 26.3.2013 at about
9:00 PM, Ajit Pal @ Boby, aged about 15 years, had gone to see
"Holika" and thereafter he did not return to home. Thereafter, the
mother of Ajit Pal @ Boby, Rajwant Kaur (PW/1), her brother Mitthu
@ Amarjeet and neighbourer, accused/appellant Om Prakash Yadav
went Gurudwara at Gwarighat and searched about Ajit Pal @ Boby,
but they did not find Ajit Pal @ Boby. Thereafter, Rajwant Kaur
(PW/1) lodged a missing report Ex.P/1 on 27.3.2013, at 16:15 PM
about missing of her son Ajit Pal @ Boby, at Gwarighat outpost of
Police Station Gorakhpur, District Jabalpur, which was registered by
Head Constable Ganesh Singh (PW/6) vide Missing Person
No.46/13. 5: Further, prosecution story is that on 28.3.2013, Mitthu
@ Amarjeet (PW/2) and accused/appellant Om Prakash Yadav were
returning and as soon as they reached Gwarighat, then Amarjeet
@ Mitthu (PW/2) received a call from mobile phone
No.8305620342, on his mobile phone No.9300434520. The caller
identified himself as 'Khan' and stated that Boby is in his custody.
The caller demanded a ransom of Rs.50 lacs and also asked him to
have a talk with the mother of Boby. The caller threatened that in
case of non-payment of ransom or in case of disclosing the
incident to police, he will cut the neck of Ajit Pal @ Boby.
Consequently, the mobile phone was disconnected. When Amarjeet
@ Mitthu (PW/2) was receiving call, at that time, accused/appellant
Om Prakash was present with him. Thereafter, Amarjeet @ Mitthu
(PW/2) went to Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) and stated about that call and
when he was stating about said call, again another call came, then
the brother of Rajwant Kaur (PW/1), Amarjeet (PW/2) gave his
mobile phone to her. When she was talking with that caller, the
mobile phone fell down, which was picked up by accused/appellant
Om Prakash. Accuased/appellant Om Prakash was talking with that 4 caller and asked him where the said ransom has to be brought.
Thereafter, Monu alias Taranjeet Singh Gujral (PW/10) by his own
mobile had taken that mobile phone and started to talk with the said
caller, but mobile was disconnected. Monu alias Taranjeet Singh
Gujral (PW/10) himself has dialed again and asked the caller and
requested to have a talk with the Boby, then Boby talked with him
and consequently mobile phone was disconnected. Said Monu
alias Taranjeet (PW/10) told that Boby shouted ''Mammi Main Boby
Main Boby" and started weaping. Monu has further stated that the
said sound was not that of Boby and he gave the number of that
caller in writing to Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) and suggested her to lodge
a report in the police Station. Thereafter, Rajwant Kaur (PW/1)
informed the police. After completing inquiry about missing person
report, SHO Shri R.S. Parmar (PW/16), of Police Station Gorakhpur,
recorded the FIR on 28.3.2013 vide Crime No.273/2013 Ex.P/35 for
offence punishable under Sections 364-A & 365 of IPC. 6: During the course of investigation, SHO Shri R.S. Parmar
(PW/16), on the basis of aforesaid facts, appeared from caller of
kidnapper of Boby, demand of ransom from mobile No.8305650342
and on the basis of enquiry report Ex.P/35 submitted by Nodal
Officer Bharti Airtel Limited, Indore, Sai Datt Bohre (PW/15) and
Santosh Jatav (PW/17), Nodal Officer of Reliance Company, on the
basis of call details of said mobile number took appellant Rajesh @
Rakesh into custody and recorded his memorandum statement
Ex.P/8. As per memorandum on the denotation of
accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh reached along with the
witnesses, namely, Jitendra Singh(PW/8) and Malkit Singh, near
Khandari Nala and got prepared the spot map vide Ex.P/13.
Thereafter, the dead body of Ajit Pal @ Boby, which was in the well,
contained in a plastic bag was got taken out and from the said dead
body, certain flock of hair antangle of handful of the deceased,
gunny bag and shawl roped in neck, were seized and for that
Seizure Panchnama Ex.P/12 was prepared. From the spot, blood
stained soil and plain soil, plastic chappal were seized vide seizure
memo Ex.P/9. On the same date, i.e. 29.3.2013, on the basis of 5 memorandum of accused/appellant Rajesh in presence of
witnesses near the spot, one empty Macdowel bottle was seized
vide Ex.P/10. On the indication of accused/appellant Rajesh in
presence of same witnesses, one knife was seized vide seizure
memo Ex.P/11. Spot map was prepared as Ex.P/14. During
investigation, after giving notice Ex.P/2, inquest memo of dead body
of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby was prepared by Shri R.S. Parmar
(PW/16) in presence of witnesses, as Ex.P/3. Thereafter, the dead
body was sent for postmortem examination vide Ex.P/11 through
Constable Sushil (PW/12). The postmortem of dead body of
deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby was conducted by Dr. Vivek Shrivastava
(PW/7), vide Ex.P/7. On outer examination of dead body of
deceased, he found following injuries :- Soft tissues, blood vessels (carotids, veins and
 arteries), nerves, trachea essophagous upto vertebra.
 Deep infilteration of clotted blood present in the
 surrounding tissues . (ii) superficial cut throat wound (incised) measuring
 7 cm x 0.2 cm x 0.3 cm present just below the the
 above injury. The margins of the above two wounds
 are clear cut. Deep infilteration of clotted blood
 present. On interior examination of dead body of deceased, he found
following injuries :- According to him, the cut wound on the neck was sufficient to cause
death in ordinary course of nature and death was likely to be
homicidal in nature. 7: The cloths of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby were packed and
sealed by Dr. Vivek Shrivastava (PW/7) and handed over the same
to the concerned Constable. The seized knife was also examined
by doctor Vivek Shrivastava (PW/7) and opined that the knife was
stained by some rusty spot and death of deceased can be caused
by that knife. After examination, he packed and sealed that knife
and handed over to the concerned Constable for its examination by
FSL. One mobile (Intex) and one mobile (Micromax) were also
seized from the accused/appellant Raja Yadav vide Ex.P/19. All
these articles were taken into custody by Investigating Officer R.S.
Parmar (PW/16) and handed over to the concerned Constables vide
Ex.P/40 and Ex.P/41 Summary report of call details were taken vide
Ex.P/42. 8: Blood samples of accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh Yadav
and accused/appellant Raja Yadav were taken, preserved and
sealed packets of seized articles were sent to F.S.L. Sagar. As per
the report of FSL Sagar Ex.P/44, DNA profile of hair stranded in
the finger of right hand of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby of male profile
i.e. Ex.A(ID 7905) is similar to that of DNA Profile of
accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh Yadav i.e. Ex.B(ID-7906)
whereas the DNA Profile of accused/appellant Raja Yadav i.e.
Ex.C(ID-7907) is different. 9: After investigation police filed charge sheet before the
concerned Judicial Magistrate First Class, who committed the case
to the Sessions Judge. A charge was framed against them under Section 302 , 364-A , 120-B and 201 of the IPC. The
accused/appellants abjured the guilt. they took plea that they have
been falsely implicated in the case, they were brought to trial. In
their statements under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., the appellants
pleaded false implication. Appellant Om Prakash also plaeaded an
alibi and claimed that he had been admitted at Rohaniya Varansi for
treatment. They have also taken defence that police had taken
their blood samples by creating pressure and thereafter, false case 7 has been made against them. In his defence, the appellants
examined Dr. Ajay Bhandari(DW/1), Princy Thakur (DW/2) and Dr.
Sandeep Kumar (DW/3). 10 : Learned Sessions Judge, after considering the prosecution
evidence convicted and sentenced the accused/appellants as
mentioned above. 11 : We have considered the rival submissions of learned counsel
for the parties and perused the records. 12 : Learned Govt. Advocate appearing on behalf of the
respondent/State has submitted that there is enough clinching
material evidence to hold guilty the accused/appellants for
commission of offence. Learned Govt. Advocate, further submitted
that as per the DNA profile test done by FSL Sagar, it is clearly
proved that there is cogent evidence against the
accused/appellants, and they are found guilty of commission of the
offence, because DNA of accused/appellants and DNA profile of the
hair stranded in the finger of right hand of deceased Ajit Pal @
Boby, which clearly indicates that accused/appellants had
committed murder of the deceased in brutal manner. The matching
of DNA profile with the dead body cannot be termed as a co-
incidence. This is the important piece of evidence which on
meticulous examination are corroborative evidence and cannot be
overlooked. The blood samples of accused/appellants have been
kept in proper custody and were sent for test without tampering.
Therefore, the same cannot be questioned. Hence, it is a rarest of
rare case and trial Court has rightly awarded death sentence
against the accused/appellants. 13 : Shri Datt, learned counsel for the accused/appellants submits
that learned trial Court has failed to appreciate the factual aspects
of the case and has wrongly framed charge against them. He
further submitted that appellants have been falsely implicated in this
case as there are material discrepancies, contradictions, omissions 8 and improvements in the statements of prosecution witnesses. He
further submits that the findings recorded by learned Sessions
Judge are erroneous and not based on proper appreciation of
evidence available on record. No ingredients are available in the
present case, which connect the accused/appellants in the crime.
Learned counsel for appellants has drawn our attention to the
statements of prosecution witnesses and tried to convince us that
the whole case is based on circumstantial evidence and the
prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.
It is contended that the Court below has given its findings on
presumptions, surmises and conjectures, therefore, is liable to be
set aside. He further contends before us that there is no direct
evidence available on record to prove the guilt of the accused/
appellants. Learned counsel for the accused/appellants further
submits that the circumstantial evidence should be unimpeachable
and in the present case no such unimpeachable evidence is
available on record, therefore, the learned Court below erred in
holding the appellants guilty. He prays for acquittal of the appellants
by setting aside the judgment of the lower Court. 14: There is no eye witness of the incident in this case and
accordingly, conviction of accused/appellants is based on
circumstantial evidence. 15 : Now, the question for our consideration is whether the
deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby had died unnatural death during
period of 9:00 PM of 26.3.2013 to 1:45 PM of 29.3.2013? and
was his death homicidal ? 16 : Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) mother of the deceased has stated that
on 26.3.2013 at about 9:00 PM Ajit Pal @ boby had gone
somewhere out of the house to see "Holika" and thereafter he did
not return. Rajwant Kaur (PW/1), mother of deceased Ajit Pal @
boby, Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu (PW/2), who is brother of Rajwant
Kaur and maternal uncle of deceased, Pooran Singh (PW/3), who is 9 father of sister-in-law of Rajwant Kaur (PW/1), Jitendra Singh
(PW/8), who is son of brother of mother of deceased, Taranjeet
Gujral @ Mullu, who is neighbour of deceased, in a voice and
soundhave stated that deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby had died. They
had seen the dead body of the deceased. They had stated in one
voice and sound that dead body of the deceased was taken out
from the well contained in a plastic gunny bag. They have also
stated that they had seen cut injury on the neck of dead body of
deceased. Certain flock of hair entangled with the finger of
deceased, gunny bag, shawl roped in neck were seized and
panchnama was prepared. Spot map vide Ex.P/13 was prepared.
Investigating Officer, R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has stated that he
discovered the dead body of deceased on the basis of
memorandum statement of appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh on
29.3.2013 at about 13:45 PM and has prepared inquest memo
Ex.P/3 of dead body of deceased in presence of witnesses after
giving notice Ex.P/2 to them. Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu (PW/2) has
also supported the statement of R.S. Parmar (PW/16) and stated
that proceedings of inquest memo was conducted before him.
Above all witnesses have stated that they have seen the cut injury
on the neck of the deceased and as per their opinion deceased had
died due to that injury and other injuries caused on the neck of
deceased. The dead body of deceased was sent to Medical
College Jabalpur for postmortem by R.S. Parmar (PW/16). Dr.
Vivek Shrivastava (PW/7) had conducted the postmortem
examination of the dead body of the deceased on 30.3.2013. He
has stated that as per his report Ex.P/7, he found following injuries :- Soft tissues, blood vessels (carotids, veins and
 arteries), nerves, trachea essophagous upto vertebra.
 Deep infilteration of clotted blood present in the
 surrounding tissues . (ii) superficial cut throat wound (incised) measuring
 7 cm x 0.2 cm x 0.3 cm present just below the the
 above injury. The margins of the above two wounds
 are clear cut. Deep infilteration of clotted blood 10 present. On interior examination of dead body of deceased, he found
following injuries :- भ0र वह फ़ न म न, ग र ल न ल भलय क8 मर पड स ह स ह म न, न फ़ न भलय त फ़ न
 कट गय l भ0र म न, न अपन फ़ न स फ़ न लग य और ब ल क8 ब ब स ब त कर ओ। ब फ़ न
 करन व ल न ब ब स म न, क8 ब त कर इ त म न, ब ल यह ब ब क8 आव नहह ह तब फ़ न
 करन व ल न कह क8 मझ ब ब न बतल य ह क8 ममम क प स त न ल ख रपय ह उसक
 अ द द ब क8 क ब स ल ख रपय एक मह न म द द तब म न, ग र ल न ब ल क8 कय बच क
 एक मह न तक पल सकत ह l 5. भ0र मर प छ वहह पर ओमपक श खड़ थ उसन ब ल द द अ तम भकतन पस
 क8 वयवसथ कर सकत ह मन ओमपक श स ब ल थ क8 मर प स अ घर म एक ल ख रपय ह
 और ओमपक श न ब ल क8 ब क8 क पस त मन ब ल वह बक म ह त ओमपक श ट ल तम 12 एक ल ख मझ अ द द और ब क8 क ब स ल ख रपय बक स भनकलव ल पर मर घर म
 ररसतद र आय थ त म ओमपक श क एक ल ख रपय नहह द प ई तब ओमपक श न मझस कह
 भक द द कय आप क प स एट एम ह त मन कह नहह। मझ भ स फ़ न स धमक8 भमल रह थ वह
 फ़ न क न-बर मझ म न, ग र ल न भलख कर भदय थ वह न-बर मन कर पभलस क द भदय । ब
 म थ न स न-बर दकर व पस आई त मर प स ओमपक श आय थ वह मझस ब ल द द पभलस
 क कछ नहह बत न तमह र ब ब आ र त क १२ ब छ, ट यग । In her cross-examination, she has stated that she did not state
above statements to the police in her statement Ex.D/1. It was not
asked that why had she not stated in her statement Ex.D/1. Police
had taken her statement on 28.3.2013. Upto that date, it was not
known to her that appellant Rajesh was involved in that crime, but
appellant-Om Prakash and her son accused Rajesh were
pretending to help him and due to that she had not stated the role of
appellant Om Prakash and his son. She was understanding them
as her aspicious thinker. In this circumstances, her above
statement cannot be said to be unreliable. Rajwant Kaur (PW/1)
has stated in her cross-examination that appellant Rajesh was his
neighbour and she knew him from his childhood. At the time of
taking on phone, she had recognized the voice of Rajesh, but she
did not disclose his name because the life of her son was in danger.
She has not explained why did she not state the above facts in her
statement before police, if all these were in her personal knowledge.
Perusal of Ex.D/1 also reflects that these statements are not there. 20 : Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu (PW/2), has stated that on
28.3.2013, he with appellant Om Prakash went to Gurudwara,
Gwarighat to search Ajit Pal @ Boby, but they did not get him. He
further stated that at 9:28 AM, he received a call on phone of a
person introducing himself as a Khan, who was telling that Ajit Pal
@ Boby was in his possession and asked him to send Rs.50 lacs.
He further stated that number of his mobile is 9300434520 and he
received the call of number 8305620342 on his above mobile phone
number. He has supported the statement of Rajwant Kaur (PW/1)
that he went to Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) with appellant Omprakash and
at the same time, he received call from same mobile phone. He
gave his mobile phone to his sister Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) and at the
time of conversation, the mobile phone fell from her hand, thereafter 13 appellant Omprakash picked up cell phone and started talking and
he was asking that where he should come with alleged ransom.
Appellant Omprakash was abusing on phone. He further stated that
thereafter Taranjeet Gujral @ Monu (PW/10) dialed the same
number by his own number and asked to have a talk with Boby.
Thereafter, he heard the a voice and then Taranjeet Gujral @ Monu
(PW/10) said that said voice is not that of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby.
Taranjeet Gujral @ Monu (PW/10) noted down the above mobile
phone number and gave the same to Rajwant Kaur (PW/1). Rajwant
Kaur (PW/1) has stated that she had given the above mobile
number to police. Taranjeet Gujral @ Monu (PW/10) has supported
the version of Rajwant Kaur (PW/1) and Amarjeet Singh (PW/2) and
stated that on 28.3.2013, when he was going to his dairy farm, then
he saw that mother of Boby was talking on phone and during
conversation, she started weaping. Thereafter, appellant Om
Prakash took that mobile phone and started conversation with
kidnapper and asked where he should bring the money and abused
the said kidnapper. He further stated that he took that mobile
phone, but the same got disconnected and then he dialed that
number by his own mobile phone. As per his statement, he saved
the said mobile phone number in his mobile phone and before the
trial Court he had shown the saved number as 8305620342. He
has further stated that he does not know the name of holder of sim
number 8305620342. In his statement, Taranjeet Singh @ Monu
(PW/10), had stated the above facts to police at the time of
recording of his statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. and if that
version was not written by the police, then he cannot say anything. 21 : Investigating Officer, R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has stated that he
had collected the call details of mobile phone number 8305620342
by which ransom was demanded. From cyber cell, he got
information that said sim was used from mobile phone of IMIE
number 358327028551270 and on that mobile phone, sim number
9993135127 was being used, which was in the name of appellant
Om Prakash Yadav. 22 : Santosh Jadhav (PW/17), posted as Assistant Nodal Officer
of Reliance Company, at Reliance Communication, Mansarowar
Complex, Bhopal, since February 2011, has stated that on asking by
Superintendent of Police Jabalpur, he provided call details of mobile
number 8305620342 through e-mail taken out by using software of
computer of Call Details Company, which is in his possession and
control. The user I.D. And password thereof is also with him. The
call details Ex.P/35-A, containing two pages and relates to the
mobile number 8305620342 for the period w.e.f. 6.3.2013 to
28.3.2013 and produced in the Court. He further states that mobile
phone of IMEI No.358327028551270 is used in the aforesaid call
details. The aforesaid call details have been duly signed as per
provisions of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act vide certificate
Ex.P/36, which was produced in defence and when defence counsel
had raised the question in respect of Ex.D/6, then it revealed that
mobile phone No.8305620342 was handed over to Bhuraji, S/o
Deepu, R/o House No.433, Gandhi Ward, Tehsil & District Jabalpur. 23 : Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu (PW/2) has stated that he has
received the call on his mobile phone No.9300434520 from mobile
phone No.8305620342. During cross-examination, in para 21 he
has stated that neither his mobile phone nor sim was seized by the
police, but in the cross-examination it was not asked that he was not
having mobile phone No.9300434520. It is clear from Ex.P35-A that
on 28.3.2013 from 9:35 to 9:50 hours, there were calls from mobile
phone No.8305620342 having IMEI No.358327028551270 on the
mobile phone No.9300434520 which belongs to Amarjeet @ Mitthu. 24 : Sai Datt Bohre (PW/15), posted as Nodal Officer in Bharti
Airtel Ltd. Indore, has stated that he is authorised to provide call
details of mobile number 9993135127 from 1.3.2013 to 28.3.2013 to
Superintendent of Police Jabalpur through E.mail. The aforesaid
call details were procured by him by using software through
computer provided by the company and he is authorised to do so by 15 the company. On demand by the police by using I.D. Password, he
provided call details IMEI detail to police or other investigating
agency through E.mail. He has stated that mobile number
9993135127 was issued in the name of appellant Om Prakash R/o
1200/CH Gwarighat, Jabalpur. During recording of his statement,
he has produced application form which was produced by consumer
Om Prakash along with his I.D. Call details sent by him to
Superintendent of Police Jabalpur is present on record. He further
stated that he had appeared along with the record. The certificate
of call details of mobile number 9993135127 is Ex.P/33 and
certificate of IMEI 358327028551270 is Ex.P/34 and same were
duly signed by him. In his cross-examination, he has stated that he
does not know the name of holder of sim number 8305620342 and
police had not inquired about this number, but inquired about call
details and IMEI Number of above sim number. 25 : Investigating Officer, R.S. Parmar (PW/16), has further stated
that on this information, he took Rajesh @ Rakesh in his custody
and on interrogation before Jitendra Singh alias Sonu (PW/8) and
Malkit Singh, he gave information that he will get recovered the
dead body of the deceased from the well and knife from the Nala
situated behind his house. He wrote down his memorandum
statement as Ex.P/8 and took signature and thereafter on his
information, he reached at the well from where dead body of
deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby was taken out contained in a plastic
gunny bag after cutting the rope by which that gunny bag was tied.
After giving notice to the witnesses, he prepared inquest memo of
the dead body of the deceased vide Ex.P/12. He further stated that
dead body was identified by mother of the deceased, Rajwant Kaur
(PW/1) as body of Ajit Pal @ Boby. Panch witnesses of
memorandum and seizure of dead body, namely, Jitendra alias
Sonu (PW/8), who has supported the statement of Investigating
Officer R.S. Parmar (PW/16) and stated that on 29.3.2013, police
has interrogated appellant Rajesh, who has stated that dead body of
deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby was found in the well of Narmada Nagar. Thereafter, his memorandum was prepared vide Ex.P/8 duly signed
by him. It is further stated by Jitendra alias Sonu (PW/8) that they
reached near well with appellant Rajesh where appellant Rajesh
told about the said well. In the well, dead body wrapped in gunny
plastic bag was seen in the water, which was taken out and
recovered. The statements of these witnesses cannot be denied. 26 : In support of the prosecution case, Investigating Officer R.S.
Parmar (PW/16) has stated that after receiving the information that
alleged mobile phone No.8305620342, operated from the mobile
phone of appellasnt Om Prakash i.e. 9993135127, he went to
Narmada Nagar, Gwarighat to the house of accused/appellants and
had taken accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh into custody, taken
him to police station, interrogated him before witnesses Jitendra @
Sonu and Malkit Singh on 29.3.2013 at 13:45, then he disclosed
about seizure of dead body from the well and knife from Nala. The
memorandum of Rajesh @ Rakesh was recorded by this witness
vide Ex.P/8 duly signed by him and accused/appellant Rajesh @
Rakesh. Jitendra Singh (PW/8) has also supported the version of
R.S. Parmar (PW/16) and stated about his arrest at P.S. Gorakhpur.
On interrogration by Town Inspector of Police, he has stated that
dead body is in the well at Narmada Nagar, Gwarighat. 27 : R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has stated that he had prepared spot
map Ex.P/13 on 29.3.2013 at 15:15 before witnesses Jitendra and
Malkit Singh, which was supported by Jitendra Singh (PW/6). R.S.
Parmar (PW/16) has deposed in his deposition that on the basis of
information given by accused/appellant Rajesh, he gave notice vide
Ex.P/2 to Panchas and in presence of panchas, he prepared
inquest memo vide Ex.P/3. The dead body was kept in white
coloured sack tied from by black coloured rope. The said sack was
cut and opened by Dashrath Barman. The neck and face of dead
body was wrapped with shawl. Half of the neck was shown to be
cut towards right side by sharp edged weapon. In the finger of right
hand, some hairs were found and putrid smell was coming out from
the dead body. This witness has put his signature on Ex.P/3, 17 confirmed the stuck hair in the right hands' finger of dead body
which were taken out and sealed. Plastic sack and shawl were also
sealed vide seizure memo Ex.P/12, duly singed and confirmed the
same. The dead body was said to be of Ajit Pal @ Body. 28 : R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has further stated in his statement that
on 29.3.2013, on the basis of information given by
accused/appellant Rajesh, he has taken bloods from inner and
outside of cement vessel, plain soil and blood stained soil, black
plastic chappal kept in cement vessel, in presence of witnesses,
sealed the same and prepared seizure memo as Ex.P/9. On the
basis of information given by appellant Rajesh, one bottle of Mc.
Dowell No.1 was also seized vide Ex.P/10, which was duly signed
and confirmed. On the same day, on the basis of memorandum
statements of appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh Ex.P/8, blood stained
knife, which was taken out by appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh from
Nala and after production thereof, the same was seized, sealed and
signed vide Ex.P/11. Jitendra Singh (PW/8) has also supported
the version of R.S.Parmar (PW/16) and stated that he had singed
Ex.P/11. On showing the knife mentioned as Article 'A', he said that
this is the knife which has been seized by the police. He further
stated that on 29.3.2013, on the basis of information of appellant
Rajesh, spot map Ex.P/14 was prepared. Jitendra Singh (PW/8)
has also stated that arrest memo Ex.P/36A, of accused/appellant
Rajesh, was prepared and signed by R.S. Parmar and this fact
cannot be denied during cross-examination of Jitendra Singh
(PW/8). Jitendra Singh (PW/8) in his deposition has stated that
search memo, about sim from the house of accused/appellant, is
Ex.P/37. He stated that on 30.3.2013, the sim could not to be
traced out by R.S. Parmar (PW/16). Ex.P/38 is also search
Panchnama. 29: On the basis of information given by appellant Rajesh, police
officials reached Gwarighat and searched about broken sim, which
could not be traced out. On 31.3.2013, Jitendra (PW/8), who was
on police remand during interrogation at P.S. Gorakhpur, in the 18 presence of witnesses Bambam and Surjit, has stated in his
memorandum statement that said mobile was kept with his brother
Brajesh and he shall get it seized. On the same day, at 15 hours,
Ex.P/16 was prepared in which appellant Rajesh has said that he
shall get seized blood stained cloths which were kept in the dairy
under Khali-Chuni in a room. It is also stated by this witness that
on the basis of information given by appellant Rajesh vide Ex.P/16,
T-shirt, blood stained black colour Jeans were seized vide Ex.P/18
duly stated to be written and signed by said R.S. Parmar. It is also
stated to be confirmed that on 31.3.2013, in the presence of
witnesses accused/ appellant has been arrested vide Ex.P/20. 30 : Bambam @ Shaiwal (PW/9) is the witness of Ex.P/15,
Ex.P/16 and Ex.P/18, and confirmed the contentions made therein
in the presence of accused appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh with regard
to the fact of concealment of cloths under Khali in the dairy, the
seizure thereof by police and arrest of appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh
@ Raja by putting his signatures on Ex.P/15, P/16, P/18 and P/20.
On 31.3.2013, accused Brajesh was taken into custody by R.S.
Parmar (PW/16) for interrogation, who has stated about
concealment of mobile of his brother in a room and on the basis of
Ex.P/17, intex mobile having duel sim and micromax mobile
containing sim No.9993135127, were stated to be seized from the
possesion of accused Brajesh vide Ex.P/19. Accused Brajesh has
been arrested vide Ex.P/21 duly signed and confirmed by R.S.
Parmar (PW/16). Bambam @ Shaiwal(PW/9) have supported the
statements of R.S. Parmar (PW/16) and signed to be proved the
version mentioned in Ex.P/17, Ex.P/19 and Ex.P/21. 31 : Invesigating Officer R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has deposed that
he had written a letter Ex.P/39 dt. 2.4.2013, duly signed by him to
Chief Medical Officer, Victoria Hospital, Jabalpur for taking the blood
samples of accused appellants-Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja Yadav.
Dr. P.K. Sharma (PW/5) has deposed in his deposition that on
2.4.2013, the accused/appellants were brought for the said purpose
in the hospital. He further stated that in presence of witnesses 19 Bambam @ Shaiwal(PW/9) who was of deceased side and Shiv
Prakash, who was the witness of accused/appellants side, their
blood samples were taken out, sealed and handed over to the police
for DNA test. Blood sample of accused/appellant Rakesh @ Rajesh
was taken and Panchnama vide Ex.P/5 was prepared and blood
sample of accused/appellant Raja was taken and Panchnama vide
Ex.P/6 was prepared. Thereafter, Dr. P.K. Sharma (PW/5) has
deposed, that he had signed Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6, which were signed
by other witnesses also, clearly show that on 2.4.2013 at 18:55
hours, the blood samples of accused/appellants Rajesh and Raja
Yadav were taken on the same day and Panchnama was prepared
in presence of witnesses. 32 : It is clear from para 3 of cross-examination of Dr. P.K. Sharma
(PW/5) that blood samples of accused/appellants were taken by
technician, but who has taken the blood samples, his name is not
mentioned in Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6. This witness has not taken blood
samples of accused/ appellants. From para 4 of his cross-
examination, it is clear that persons from whom blood samples were
taken, their identity has not been mentioned. There is no mention
about handing over of blood samples to the police constable and in
para 5, name of constable to whom the blood samples were given,
has also not been mentioned. This witness could not state in his
statement in para 7 that on what time he had come to take blood
samples, but he has stated that it is true that blood samples Ex.P/5
& Ex.P/6 were collected by him at about 10-10:30, because on that
day police personnel had came to him at 10-10:30 to 11:00 andhe
had completed the proceedings within half an hour. It is denied by
Dr. P.K. Sharma (PW/5) that he did not go to hospital in the evening
at 5-6 PM, and also denied that he had not taken any sample and
also denied that he had signed Panchnama Ex.P/5 and P/6 at the
instance of police, thereby, it is clear that sealed samples were
taken and handed over by Dr. P.D. Sharma (PW/5) to constable. It
is also denied by Dr. P.K. Sharma (PW/5) that blood samples were
not taken by him or before him by the technician. On the basis of
not mentioning each and every particulars in Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6, it 20 cannot be said that credibility thereof is doubtful. 33 : Shiv Prakash (PW/4) is the brother of accused/appellant Raja
Yadav. This witness has not supported the assertion of Dr. P.K.
Sharma (PW/5) and signatures put on Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6. He has
been declared hostile and in his cross-examination by prosecution,
he denied the suggestion of prosecution that he is not giving true
statement with a view to save his brother. Shaiwal @ Bambam
(PW/9) had accepted his signatures on Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6 and
stated that on 2.4.2013 at 6:00 PM in the evening at Victoria
Hospital Dr. P.K. Sharma (PW/5) had taken blood samples of
appellants Raja and Rajesh vide Panchnama Ex.P/5 and Ex.P/6
and at that time, brother of appellant Raja and uncle Shiv Prakash
(PW/4) were present. This version is contradictory to his statement
mentioned in para 17, wherein he has stated that blood samples of
appellant Raja and Rajesh were taken by Dr. Pramod Sharma in a
syringe, but this anomaly does not make doubtful about taking of
blood samples of appellants Raja and Rajesh. 34 : R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has deposed that he had sent all
articles seized during investigation to FSL Sagar through
Superintendent of Police Jabalpur. He further deposed that he sent
sealed hairs stuck in the finger of right hand of deceased Ajit Pal @
Boby, blood samples of acccused/appellants Rajesh and Raja
Yadav to FSL Sagar vide memo Ex.P/40. He also deposed that he
sent other seized articles as per draft Ex.P/41. He had also stated
about preparation of summary of call details vide Ex.P/42. He
further deposed that he had received the report from FSL Sagar as
Ex.P/43 and DNA report as Ex.P/44. From perusal of Ex.P/43, it is
clear that on 22.4.2013, 10 sealed packets and on 29.3.2013 seized
articles A-soil, B-Chappal, C-Chappal, D-Plastic sack, E -Shawl, F-
cloth, G-knife from possession of accused appellant Rajesh, T. Shirt
of Ajit Pal @ Boby, Lower, Handkerchief, as Article H1, H2, H3 &
Full pant of Raja Yadav, T-Shirt, I-1 and I-2, Lower, T-shirt,
underwear of appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh, as Article J1, J2 and J3
were produced and the same were chemically examined. Blood 21 stained Articles A, C, D, E, F,G, H1, H2, H3, I1, I2, J1 & J2 were
also chemically examined. As per report Ex.P/43, human blood was
found on Articles G, I1, I2, J1, J2 and J3. Due to decomposition,
blood found on on Articles A, D, E, F, H1, H2 & H3, their blood group
could not be ascertained. No sufficient blood was found on Article
C. From above reports it is clear that on Article G-knife seized from
accused appellant Rajesh Yadav, his cloths Article I1, I2 and cloths
of appellant Rajesh, Article J1, J2 and J3, human blood was found. 35: R.S. Parmar (PW/16) has deposed that he had received the
report of DNA finger printing unit of State Forensic Science
Laboratory, Sagar as Ex. P/44. It is settled law that the evidence of
the experts is admissible in evidence in terms of section 45 of the
Evidence Act, 1872. It can be read without proving of its contents.
Its truthness has not been challenged. As per report Ex. P/44, on
examination of blood of accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh and
Raja Yadav and hairs stuck found in the finger of right hand of
deceased Ajit Pal @ Bobby, it was found that DNA source found on
hair Ex. A (1D-7905), DNA profile of male was found. Male DNA
profile found on hair stuck, found in the finger of the deceased Ex. A
(1D7905) and DNA found on the blood of appellant Rajesh @
Rakesh Ex. B (ID-7906) are similar but, male DNA profile found on
hair stuck, found in the finger of the deceased, Ex. A(1D-7905) and
DNA found on the blood of appellant Raja Yadav, Ex.C ID-7907 are
not similar. Thus DNA profile of stuck of hairs found in the finger of
the deceased was same as the DNA profile of blood of Rajesh @
Rakesh. 36: The DNA test report maching the DNA profile of blood of
appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh as well as hair found in the finger of
dead body of deceased or the curcumstances, which definitely and
unerringly indicate towards the guilt of the said appellant/accused.
The maching of DNA profile with the dead body or hair found in the
finger of the deceased cannot be termed as co-incidence. This is
the important piece of evidence, which is on maticulous examination
or corroborative evidence and cannot be overlooked. 37: Pooran Singh (PW/3), knowing the identity of appellants on
the basis of name and face, has stated that deceased Boby was the
son of his daughter's sister-in-law. Previously the appellants had
visited his house. He went to the house of Rajvinder Kaur (PW/1) at
Narmada Nagar to give the sweet on Holi Festival in the evening
hours after performing his duty at Guru Govind Singh Khalsa
School. When he was going to his house and reached near railway
crossing at 9:00 PM from her daughter's house, then on way, he met
with appellants Raja, Rajesh and deceased Ajit @ Boby and asked
Boby that it is 9:00 PM and why he did not go to home, then Boby
replied that he is going to see Holika. Thereafter, Pooran Singh
(PW/3) went to bus-stand by an auto-rickshaw to go to his house at
Saliwada. On 28.3.2013, his daughter had called him alleging that
Boby was kidnapped and ransom of Rs.50 lacs is demanded. On
the next day i.e. 29.3.2013, again he received call of his daughter
that dead body of Boby was found in a well; which was being taken
out at the instance of appellants Raja and Rajesh. This witness has
also attended the cremation of deceased Boby on 30.3.2013. 38: Further, Pooran Singh (PW/3) has stated that when he went
to attend the cremation of deceased Boby, then near railway
crossing he met with Town Inspector and told that on 26.3.2013
deceased was with appellants Rajesh and Raja. In para 3 of his
cross-examination, he has stated that his daughter is the aunt
(Mami) of deceased Boby and her house is situated at a distance of
15-20 kms where he went by an autorickshaw along with other
passengers. He went alone to his daughter's house. During cross-
examination, he has also stated that he received the information
about kidnapping of deceased Boby on 28.3.2013, but at that time,
he did not give this information to the police. In para 7, he further
stated that deceased Boby was seen with appellants Raja and
Rajesh on 26.3.2013, but he has not stated this fact to anyone
except police. Pooran Singh (PW/3), in para 8 of his cross-
examination, he deposed that in morning hours at 10:30 AM, he met
with Town Inpsector and on the same day in the evening at 5:00 23 PM, his statement was recorded in the police station, but he denied
to become a witness in respect of the fact that deceased Boby was
seen by him last time along with appellants Raja and Rajesh. He
also denied that he gave the statements as per Town Inspector's
version. Thus, looking to the aforesaid aspects, the statement of
Pooran Singh (PW/3) is contradictory and, therefore, cannot be
believed. Accordingly, prosecution is failed to prove that deceased
was lastly seen with appellants-Raja and Rajesh. Thus, there is no
evidence of last seen of deceased with appellants-Raja and Rajesh. 39 : The solitary contention advanced by the learned counsel for
the accused/appellants on the merits of the case was, that the
prosecution had ventured to substantiate the allegations levelled
against the appellants only on the basis of circumstantial evidence.
It was sought to be pointed out, that in the absence of direct
evidence, the slightest of a discrepancy, depicting the possibility of
two views would exculpate the accused of guilt, on the basis of
benefit of doubt. Before dealing with the circumstantial evidence
relied upon against the accused/appellants, learned counsel invited
our attention to the legal position declared by the Apex Court, on the
standard of proof required for recording of conviction, on the basis
of circumstantial evidence. 40 : The Apex Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda
Vs. State of Maharashtra [(1984) 4 SCC 116] has laid down the
golden principles of standard of proof, required in a case sought to
be established on the basis of circumstantial evidence. In this case
Hon'ble Apex Court has observed as follows :- 153. These five golden principles, if we may say so,
 constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case
 based on circumstantial evidence." 41 : Further, in the case of Tanviben Pankajkumar Divetia Vs.
State of Gujarat , (1997) 7SCC 156, the Apex Court in paras 45 & 25 46 has held thus :- 42 : It is also the legal position that where there was any vacuum
in evidence, the circumstantial evidence could not be relied upon.
The Apex Court in the case of Sucha Singh Vs. State of Punjab [(2001) 4 SCC 375], has held that each aspect of the criminal act 26 alleged against the accused, had to be established on the basis of
material of a nature, which would be sufficient to lead to the
inference that there could be no other view possible, than the one
arrived at on the basis of the said circumstantial evidence. In para
19, it is observed by the Apex Court as under :- 20. We pointed out that Section 106 of the
 Evidence Act is not intended to relieve the prosecution of
 its burden to prove the guilt of the accusedbeyond
 reasonable doubt, but the section would apply to cases
 where prosecution has succeeded in proving facts for
 which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding the
 existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by
 virtue of special knowledge regarding such facts failed to
 offer any explanation which might drive the court to draw a
 difference inference." 43 : From the aforesaid scenario, it is clear that the prosecution 27 had placed sufficient material on the record of the case to
substantiate the factum of kidnapping and murder of deceased Ajit
Pal @ Boby. Be that as it may, without drawing any such inference,
we would still endeavour to determine, whether the prosecution had
been successful in establishing the factum of kidnapping and
murder of the deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby, at the hands of the
accused/appellants. In so far as the instance aspect of the matter is
concerned, reference may be made to the statements of Rajwant
Kaur (PW/1), her brother Mitthu @ Amarjeet (PW/2) and Taranjeet
Gujral @ Monu (PW/10) wherein they affirmed that on 25.3.2013 at
about 9:00 PM deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby had gone somewhere out
of the house to see Holika, but he did not return. Thereafter, during
search, when Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu PW/2 was returning from
Gurudwara, then Mitthu received a call on mobile phone. The caller
was introducing himself as Khan and he was telling that Ajit Pal @
Boby was in his possession and he asked him to send Rs.50 lacs
towards ransom. The mobile phone number of that caller was
8305620342 and he received that call on his mobile phone number
No.9300434520. Thereafter, when Amarjeet Singh (PW/2) was
stating about conversion to her sister, namely, Rajwant Kaur (PW/1),
then again said person introducing himself as Khan, called on
mobile No.9300434520 then he handed over the mobile phone to
Rajwant Kaur (PW/1). Thereafter, said Khan had talked to Rajwant
Kaur (PW/1) and stated that her son was in his possession and
demanded Rs.50 lacs as ransom. During conversation, the mobile
pone fell down from her hand, thereafter appellant-Om Prakash
picked up that mobile phone and started talking and asked that
where he should come with said ransom. Appellant-Om prakash
was abusing on phone. Appellant Om Prakash suggested Rajwant
Kaur (PW/1) for immediate release of Rs.1 lakh for liberation of Ajit
Pal @ Boby. Thereafter, Taranjeet Gujral @ Monu (PW/10) dialed
the same number by his own mobile phone number and then gave
that number of said Khan i.e. 8305620342 to Rajwant Kaur (PW/1)
with advise to inform the police about mobile phone number
8305620342. Thereafter, on collecting call details of mobile number 28 8305620342, by which ransom was demanded from cyber cell, it
was found that the said sim was used from phone of IMIE number
358327028551270 and on that mobile phone sim number
9993135127 was being used which was in the name of appellant
Om Prakash Yadav. It is also clear from EX.P/35-A that on
28.3.2013 from 9:35 to 9:50 hours, there were calls from mobile
phone number 8305620342 having IMEI No.358327028551270 on
mobile No.9300434520 which belongs to Amarjeet Singh @ Mitthu
(PW/2) and by the statement of Sai Datt Bohre (PW/15), Nodal
Officer of Bharti Airtel Limited, mobile number 9993135127 was
issued in the name of appellant-Om Prakash. Seizure of dead body
of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby from the well, kept in a plastic sack,
murder of the deceased, seizure of knife stained with human blood,
on production of appellant-Rajesh Yadav, recovery of cloths of
appellants-Raja and Rajesh @ Rakesh Yadav, stained with human
blood, which have been established beyond reasonable doubt, itself
prove that accused-appellants had committed the offence.
Demanding of ransom on phone and informing that deceased was
with appellants-Raja and Rajesh @ Rakesh and thereafter finding of
dead body of deceased Boby, in absence of any contrary material
evidence produced by appellants, it has to be accepted that
deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby was in the custody of appellants. 44 : Based on the evidence noticed in the aforesaid paragraphs,
there can be no doubt whatsover, that the accused/appellants had
kidnapped Ajit Pal @ Boby and had taken him away, and demanded
ransom of Rs.50 lacs, therefore, stands duly established. 45 : The material question to be determined is, whether the
aforesaid circumstantial evidence is sufficient to further infer, that
the accused/appellants had committed the murder of Ajit Pal @
Boby. According to the learned counsel for the appellants, there is
no evidence whatsoever, on record of the case, showing the
accused/ appellants participation of the accused/appellants in any of
the acts which led to the death of Ajit Pal @ Boby. It was, therefore, 29 the submission of the learned Senior counsel for appellants that
even though the accused/appellants may be held guilty of having
kidnapped Ajit Pal @ Boby, since it had not been established that he
had committed the murder of Ajit Pal @ Boby, they cannot be held
guilty of murder in the facts of this case. 46 : Having given our thoughtful consideration to the submission
advanced at the hands of learned Senior counsel for the appellants,
we are of the view that the instant submission is wholly misplaced
and fallacious. In so far as the instant aspect of the matter is
concerned, reference may be made to the judgment rendered by the
Apex Court in Sucha Singh Vs. State of Punjab , (2001) 4 SCC
375 wherein it was held as under : A perusal of the aforesaid determination would reveal, that
having proved the factum of kidnapping, the inference of the
consequential murder of the kidnapped person, is liable to be
presumed. We are one with the aforesaid conclusion. The logic for
the aforesaid inference is simple. Once the person concerned has
been shown as having been kidnapped, the onus would shift on the
kidnapper to establish how and when the kidnapped individual came
to be released from his custody. In the absence of any such proof
produced by the kidnapper, it would be natural to infer/presume, that
the kidnapped person continued in the kidnapper's custody, till he
was eliminated. The instant conclusion would also emerge from Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which is being
extracted hereinunder : (a) When a person does an act with some intention
 other than that which the character and circumstances
 of the act suggest, the burden of proving that intention
 is upon him. (b) A is charged with travelling on a railway without a
 ticket, the burden of proving that he had a ticket is on
 him." 47 : Since in the facts and circumstances of this case, it has been
duly established, that Ajit Pal @ boby had been kidnapped by the
accused/appellants; the accused/appellants have not been able to
produce any material on the record of this case to show the release
of Ajit Pal @ Boby from his custody. Section 106 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 places the onus on them. In the absence of any
material produced by the accused/appellants, it has to be accepted,
that the custody of Ajit Pal @ Boby had remained with the
accused/appellants, till he was murdred. The motive/reason for the
accused/appellants, for taking the extreme step was, that ransom as
demanded by the accused/appellants, had not been paid. When
the accused/appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh was detained on
29.3.2013, he had made a confessional statement in the presence
of Jitendra Singh @ Sonu (PW/8) stating that his uncle Raju had
caught hold deceased and he committed murder by cutting his
neck, whereupon his body was put into gunny bag and thrown into
the well and he had hidden the knife near the drain. It was,
thereafter, on pointing out of him the dead body of deceased was
recovered from the aforesaid well kept in a gunny bag as stated by
accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh. Dr. Vivek Shrivastava (PW/7)
concluded, after holding the postmortem of the dead body of
deceased, that he had died due to haemorrhagic shock, which was
caused due to cut of neck by sharp cutting object. On pointing of
accused/appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh, blood stained knife was
seized. Dr. Vivek Shrivastava (PW/7) opined, on perusal of seized
knife that injury found on the neck of dead body of deceased would 31 be caused by said knife. Accused/appellant Raja was also detained
on 31.3.2013 and he had made a confessional statement in
presence of witness Bambam @ Shaiwal, stating that he caught
hold the hands of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby and accused/appellant
Rajesh @ Rakesh by cutting his neck, caused murder of deceased
and whereupon his body was put into a gunny bag and thrown the
same in the well. He further stated that during commission of
murder, his cloths were stained with blood of deceased. He further
stated that he had concealed that cloths in his dairy under the
'Khali-Chuni'. On the pointing out of him, blood stained cloths were
seized. The instant evidence clearly nails all the accused/appellants
to be the perpetrator of kidnapping of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby for
alleged ransom and also nails the accused/appellants Rajesh @
Rakesh and Raja Yadav as perpetrator of murder of deceased Ajit
Pal @ Boby, due to not receiving the alleged ransom. In view of the
factual and legal position dealt with herein above, we have no doubt
in our mind that the prosecution has produced substantive material
to establish not only the kidnapping of deceased Ajit Pal @ Boby at
the hands of all accused/appellants Om Prakash, Rajesh @ Rakesh
& Raja Yadav, but also his murder at the hands of accused/appellant
Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja Yadav. 48 : Trial Court convicted the accused/ appellant Om Prakash for
offence punishable under Section 364-A r/w Section 120-B of IPC
and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and fine of Rs.2,000/-,
in default R.I. for two months whereas appellant Rajesh @ Rakesh
and Raja Yadav have been convicted for offence under Section 364-
A r/w Section 120-B of IPC and they are sentence to death sentence
each and fine amount of Rs.1,000/-, in default R.I. for two months
each. They have been further convicted for offence punishable
under Section 302 r/w Section 120-B of IPC and sentenced to
undergo death sentence each and fine of Rs.1,000/- each and in
default of payment, R.I. for two months and they have been also
convicted under Section 201 IPC and sentenced to undergo R.I. for
five years each, with fine of Rs.500/- each, in default of fine, R.I. for
one month each. The punishment of co-accused Om Prakash under 32 Section 364-A r/w Section 120-B of IPC is not a matter of dispute
before us as it has not been contested by the prosecution by
preferring any appeal. The minimum sentence for the offence
punishable under Section 364-A of IPC is life imprisonment and thus
there is no need to consider the quantum of sentence against
appellant Om Prakash. 49 : So far sentence of accused/appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh and
Raja Yadav is concerned, their learned counsel assailed the death
sentence imposed by the trial Court. During the course of hearing,
it was the vehement contention of the learned counsel for the
accused-appellants, that infliction of life imprisonment, in the facts
and circumstances of this case, would have satisfied the ends of
justice. It was also the contention of the learned counsel for the
accused-appellants, that the facts and circumstances of this case
are not sufficient to categorize the present case as a 'rarest of a rare
case', wherein only the death penalty would meet the ends of
justice. To substantiate the contention of learned counsel for
appellants, we may profitably refer to the decision of the Apex Court
in the case of Haresh Mohandas Rajput Vs. State of
Maharashtra , (2011) 12 SCC 56, wherein, having taken into
consideration earlier judgments, Apex Court delineated the
circumstances in which the death penalty could be imposed.
Reliance was placed on the following observations recorded
therein:- of a community is so shocked that it will expect the
holders of the judicial powers centre to inflict death
penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards
desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty, such a
penalty can be inflicted. But the Bench in this case
underlined that full weightage must be accorded to the
mitigating circumstances in a case and a just balance had
to be struck between aggravating and mitigating
circumstances. 20. "The rarest of the rare case" comes when a convict
would be a menace and threat to the harmonious and
peaceful co-existence of the society. The crime may be
heinous or brutal but may not be in the category of "the
rarest of the rare case". There must be no reason to
believe that the accused cannot be reformed or
rehabilitated and that he is likely to continue criminal acts
of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to the
society. The accused may be a menace to the society and
would continue to be so, threatening its peaceful and
harmonious co-existence. The manner in which the crime
is committed must be such that it may result in intense
and extreme indignation of the community and shock the
collective conscience of the society. Where an accused
does not act on any spur-of-the-moment provocation and
indulges himself in a deliberately planned crime and
meticulously executes it, the death sentence may be the
most appropriate punishment for such a ghastly crime.
The death sentence may be warranted where the victims
are innocent children and helpless women. Thus, in case
the crime is committed in a most cruel and inhuman
manner which is an extremely brutal, grotesque,
diabolical, revolting and dastardly manner, where his act
affects the entire moral fiber of the society, e.g. crime
committed for power or political ambition or indulging in
organized criminal activities, death sentence should be 34 awarded. (See: C. Muniappan and Ors. v. State of Tamil
 Nadu , AIR 2010 SC 3718; Rabindra Kumar Pal alias Dara
 Singh v. Republic of India , (2011) 2 SCC 490; Surendra
 Koli v. State of U.P. and Ors. , (2011) 4 SCC 80; Mohd.
 Mannan (supra); and Sudam v. State of Maharashtra ,
 (2011) 7 SCC 125). 21. Thus, it is evident that for awarding the death
 sentence, there must be existence of aggravating
 circumstances and the consequential absence of
 mitigating circumstances. As to whether death sentence
 should be awarded, would depend upon the factual
 scenario of the case in hand." 50: The Apex Court in Ramnaresh & Ors. Vs. State of
Chhattisgarh , (2012) 4 SCC 257 has laid down the principles about
death sentence and life imprisonment as follows :- 77. While determining the questions relateable to
sentencing policy, the Court has to follow certain
principles and those principles are the loadstar besides
the above considerations in imposition or otherwise of
the death sentence. Principles: 78. Stated broadly, these are the accepted indicators
for the exercise of judicial discretion but it is always
preferred not to fetter the judicial discretion by
attempting to make the excessive enumeration, in one
way or another. In other words, these are the
considerations which may collectively or otherwise
weigh in the mind of the Court, while exercising its
jurisdiction. It is difficult to state it as an absolute rule.
Every case has to be decided on its own merits. The
judicial pronouncements, can only state the precepts
that may govern the exercise of judicial discretion to a
limited extent. Justice may be done on the facts of each
case. These are the factors which the Court may
consider in its endeavour to do complete justice
between the parties. 79. The Court then would draw a balance-sheet of
aggravating and mitigating circumstances. Both
aspects have to be given their respective weightage.
The Court has to strike a balance between the two and
see towards which side the scale/balance of justice
tilts. The principle of proportion between the crime and
the punishment is the principle of 'just deserts' that
serves as the foundation of every criminal sentence
that is justifiable. In other words, the 'doctrine of
proportionality' has a valuable application to the
sentencing policy under the Indian criminal
jurisprudence. Thus, the court will not only have to
examine what is just but also as to what the accused
deserves keeping in view the impact on the society at
large. 80. Every punishment imposed is bound to have its
effect not only on the accused alone, but also on the
society as a whole. Thus, the Courts should consider
retributive and deterrent aspect of punishment while
imposing the extreme punishment of death. 81. Wherever, the offence which is committed,
 manner in which it is committed, its attendant
 circumstances and the motive and status of the victim,
 undoubtedly brings the case within the ambit of 'rarest
 of rare' cases and the Court finds that the imposition of
 life imprisonment would be inflicting of inadequate
 punishment, the Court may award death penalty.
 Wherever, the case falls in any of the exceptions to the
 'rarest of rare' cases, the Court may exercise its judicial
 discretion while imposing life imprisonment in place of
 death sentence." 51: The Apex Court on a decision in the case of Brajendra Singh
Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh , (2012) 4 SCC 289, having followed
the decision rendered in Ramnaresh & Ors. Vs. State of
Chhattisgarh (cited supra), further held as under:- 52 : The Apex Court in the case of Mukesh & another Vs. State for NCT of Delhi and others [Criminal Appeal No.607-608 of
2017, arising out of S.L.P. (Cri.) Nos. 3119-3120 of 2014] with
Criminal Appeal No. 609-610 of 2017 arising out of SLP (Criminal)
No. 5027-5028 of 2014 referring to pronouncement in the case of Bachan Singh (Supra) Machhi Singh (Supra), Ramnaresh and
others vs. State of Chhattisgarh (2012) 4 SCC 257, has also tried to
lay down a nearly exhaustive list of aggravating and mitigating
circumstances. It would be apposite to refer to the same here : When the victim is innocent, helpless or a person relies
 upon the trust of relationship and social norms, like a
 child, helpless woman, a daughter or a niece staying
 with a father/uncle and is inflicted with the crime by
 such a trusted person. (9) When murder is committed for a motive which 41 evidences total depravity and meanness. (10) When there is a cold blooded murder without
 provocation. (11) The crime is committed so brutally that it pricks or
 shocks not only the judicial conscience but even the
 conscience of the society. Mitigating Circumstances: 53: We are one with the learned counsel for the accused-
appellants, on the parameters prescribed by the Apex Court, for
inflicting the death sentence. Rather than deliberating upon the
matter in any further detail, we would venture to apply the
parameters laid down in the judgments of Apex Court to determine
whether or not life imprisonment or in the alternative the death
penalty, would be justified in the facts and circumstances of the 42 present case. We may first refer to the aggravating circumstances
as under:- Section 364A is being extracted hereunder:- A perusal of the aforesaid provision leaves no
 room for any doubt, that the offence of kidnapping for
 ransom accompanied by a threat to cause death
 contemplates punishment with death. Therefore, even
 without an accused actually having committed the
 murder of the individual kidnapped for ransom, the
 provision contemplates the death penalty. Insofar as
 the present case is concerned, there is no doubt, that
 the accused-appellants have been found to have
 kidnapped Ajit Pal @ Boby for ransom, and
 accused/appellants, Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja
 Yadav have also actually committed his murder. In the
 instant situation therefore, the guilt of the accused-
 appellants Om Prakash, Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja
 Yadav (under Section 364A of the Indian Penal Code)
 must be considered to be of the gravest nature,
 justifying the harshest punishment prescribed for the
 offence. (ii) The accused-appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh and
 Raja Yadav have also been found guilty of the offence
 of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code also
 contemplates the punishment of death for the offence
 of murder. It is, therefore apparent, that the accused-
 appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja Yadav are
 guilty of two heinous offences, which independently of
 one another, provide for the death penalty. (iii) The accused/appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh and
 Raja Yadav caused the murder of child of about 15
 years. The facts and circumstances of the case do not
 depict any previous enmity between the parties. There
 is no grave and sudden provocation, which had
 compelled the accused to take the life of an innocent 43 child. The murder of a child, in such circumstances
 makes this a case of extreme culpability. (iv) Kidnapping of a child was committed with the
 motive of carrying home a ransom. On account of the
 non-payment of ransom, a minor child's murder was
 committed. This fact demonstrates that the accused
 had no value for human life. The instant circumstance
 demonstrates extreme mental perversion not worthy of
 human condonation. (v) The manner in which the child was murdered,and
 the approach and method adopted by the accused,
 disclose the traits of outrageous criminality in the
 behaviour of the accused. The child was first murdered
 by cutting his neck by a sharp edged weapon and the
 dead body of the child was then tied in a gunny bag,
 and finally the gunny bag was thrown into a well. All
 this was done, in a well thought out and planned
 manner. This approach of the accused reveals a brutal
 mindset of the highest order. (vi) All the aforesaid aggravating circumstances are
 liable to be considered in the background of the fact,
 that the child was known to the accused-appellants.
 The child and accused/appellants were same locality.
 Murder was therefore committed, not of a stranger, but
 of a child with whom the accused were acquainted.
 This conduct of the accused-appellants, places the
 facts of this case in the abnormal and heinous
 category. (vii) The choice of kidnapping the particular child for
 ransom, was well planned and consciously motivated.
 The parents of the deceased had three children ' two
 daughters and one son. Kidnapping the only male child
 was to induce maximum fear in the mind of his
 parents. Purposefully killing the sole male child, has
 grave repercussions for the parents of the deceased.
 Agony for parents for the loss of their only male child,
 who would have carried further the family lineage, and
 is expected to see them through their old age, is
 unfathomable. Extreme misery caused to the
 aggrieved party, certainly adds to the aggravating
 circumstances. 54 : As against the aforesaid aggravating circumstances, learned
counsel for the accused-appellants has pointed out following
mitigating circumstances :- Except aforesaid mitigating circumstances, learned
 counsel for the accused/appellants could not point out any other
 mitigating circumstances. So far young age of the appellant Rajesh
 @ Rakesh is concerned, there is no mitigating circumstance for
 commutation to life, as has been held in the case of Bhagwan
 Swarup Vs. State of U.P. (1971) 3 SCC 759, Deepak Rai Vs.
 State of Bihar (2013) 10 SCC 421 and Shabhnam Vs. State of
 Uttar Pradesh (2015) 6 SCC 632. So far as the
 accused/appellants Rajesh @ Rakesh and Raja Yadav of not
 indulging in commission of the crime again and the probability of the
 accused/appellants being reformed and rehabilitated is concerned
 looking to the nature and way of committing above offence, in our
 considered view, there is no possibility of any reform and
 rehabilitation. 55 : Thus, viewed on the parameters laid down by Apex Court, in
 the decisions mentioned above, we have no choice, but to affirm
 the death penalty imposed upon the accused-appellants Rajesh @
 Rakesh and Raja Yadav by the trial Court. 56: In view of the above, we find no justification whatsoever, in
 interfering with the impugned judgment of the trial Court, either on
 merits or on the quantum of punishment. 57: The property seized be destroyed after the appeal period is
 over. 58: In view of the foregoing discussions, we confirm the death
 sentence awarded by the trial Court and dismiss Cr.A.No.83/2017
 and Cr.A.No.84/2017. Ordered accordingly.