This appeal by the husband is directed against the judgment and

decree dated 10.3.1998 passed by the learned Additional District Judge,

Amritsar dismissing the petition filed by the appellant seeking a decree of

nullity and annulment of marriage under sections 11 , 12(i)(c) of the Hindu

Marriage Act, 1955 (for short th4 Act). Facts leading to the filing of the present appeal are that the

parties were married as per Hindu rites at Amritsar on 12.3.1991. The

parties cohabited as husband and wife but no issue was born from the wed-

lock. The respondent/wife left the house of the appellant on 11.8.1991 after

the fact of her first marriage was discovered. The respondent was said to

have been married to one Naresh Kumar on 23.11.1987 at Amritsar. After

the marriage, the respondent/wife lived and cohabited with Naresh Kumar

as his wife at Amritsar, New Delhi and Germany. The respondent/wife had gone to Germany on 1.6.1988 and

returned on 13.7.1988. She again visited Naresh Kumar in West Germany

on 13.8.1988 and returned to India on 5.9.1988. Marriage between the

respondent and Naresh Kumar was said to be still subsisting and the

divorce petition filed under section 13 of the Hindu marriage Act was said

to be pending in the court of learned Additional District Judge, Delhi. The

case set up by the appellant was that the respondent and her family

members had fraudulently and dishonestly misrepresented and had not

disclosed the fact of previous marriage of the respondent. It was further claimed, that consent of the appellant was

obtained by fraud by concealing material facts of the previous marriage. It

was the case of the appellant that if he had known that the respondent was

already married to Naresh Kumar, he would have not consented to the

marriage with the respondent. It was the case of the appellant that though

there was rumor of her marriage, the factum of her previous marriage was

confirmed only on 10.8.1991 when he received a copy of divorce petition

which was shown to the respondent. She left the matrimonial home. Thus, it FAO No.61-M of 1998 3 was claimed that marriage was liable to be declared as nullity under section

11 of the Act. On notice respondent appeared and filed reply and contested

the petition filed by the appellant on the ground that the petition was not

within time; as the petition was instituted after unnecessary and improper

delay, and that the appellant had not come to the court with clean hands.

The stand taken was that the appellant was previously married with

Santushta Sharma on 23.2.1988 at Batala but she filed a divorce petition

against the appellant and Smt.Vinod Bala on 3.3.1989, the said petition was

accepted on 4.9.1989 holding therein that the appellant, was living in

adultery with Smt. Vinod Bala. She was said to be cousin sister of the

appellant, it was also alleged that appellant was still living with her. On merits, it was alleged that the marriage between the parties

was solemnized on 4.6.1991 and not on 12.3.1991. It was admitted that the

parties lived as husband and wife at Amritsar and no issue was born from

the wedlock. It was denied that the respondent had left the house on

11.8.1991. It was further case set up that the appellant was in know of the

first marriage of respondent and of litigation with Naresh Kumar even prior

to his marriage. It was pleaded that Naresh Kumar was residing in Germany,

and without disclosing to the respondent that he was already married with

a German lady Meera alias Elga, and was having children from that lady

married her on 23.11.1987, that too without taking any divorce from his

previous wife. It was the case of the respondent that Naresh Kumar and his

family members had assured the respondent that he was a bachelor and

doing business in Germany. That he was to take the respondent as wife in FAO No.61-M of 1998 4 Germany. She admitted that her marriage with Naresh Kumar was

performed on 23.11.1987 at Shiraj Hotel, Amritsar and that the parents of

the respondents visited Germany on 1.6.1988 and returned on 13.7.1988 and

second time visited Germany on 14.8.1988 and retuned to India on

5.9.1988. It was asserted that the marriage of respondent with Naresh

Kumar was not legal marriage, but a void marriage as Naresh Kumar had

living spouse at the time of marriage with the respondent. Respondent also

alleged, that she has lodged a report with the police regarding the fraud

committed by Naresh Kumar, and his family members. FIR No.10 dated

19.1.1992 under sections 420 / 406 / 498-A / 34 IPC was registered against

Naresh Kumar and others. It was admitted that Naresh Kumar had filed a

divorce petition against the respondent in the court of Additional District

Judge, Delhi. It was denied that the respondent and his family members

fraudulently or dishonestly misrepresented to the appellant. The consent

having been obtained by fraud and concealing material facts of previous

marriage was denied. It was also pleaded that a document dated 18.5.1991

was executed between respondent and Naresh Kumar where he admitted his

first marriage as also the litigation between the parties. The respondent also

claimed that she was having certain documents with her in German

language, but as language was not known to her she had to find some

person knowing German language. Amar Nath was said to be uncle of the

respondent and Kailash Rani was said to be wife of Amar Nath, whereas

Gopal Krishan was said to be brother of Kailash Rani. Daughter of Gopal

Krishan was said to be married with the son of Subhash Chander alias

Kala who is said to be residing in Germany and used to come to India with FAO No.61-M of 1998 5 Mohan Lal appellant. Mohan Lal was said to be cousin brother of Subhash

Chander. Case set up was that Mohan Lal, Subhash Chander, and Naresh

Kumari knew German language, and in that respondent and her parents

had shown documents to the appellant. Mohan Lal was said to be residing

with Smt.Vinod Bala at Putlighar who was real sister of Subhash Chander

alias Kala. The case set up was that Subhash Chander and his wife Naresh

Kumari had assured the respondent that they would help respondent and

would supply her every kind of detail, which will be known to them from

Germany relating to Naresh Kumar. It was also alleged that the appellant and Smt.Vinod Bala

started visiting the house of the respondent and represented to the parents

of the respondent that Naresh Kumar was already married with a German

lady Meera, and that they tried their best through Subhash Chander to keep

the respondent with Naresh Kumar, but he was not prepared to leave Meera.

The respondent, was therefore, advised to get divorce from Naresh Kumar.

It was also pleaded case that Vinod Bala was projected as real sister

married to Surinder Pal of Jammu and that she was to go to her in-laws'

house. Respondent further claimed that she was advised not to

prosecute the case filed by Naresh Kumar. Rather she was advised to get

divorce from Naresh Kumar by writing a document, as there is a custom in

Biradari to have divorce out of court. Divorce deed dated 18.5.1991 was got

executed. Thereafter, the appellant married respondent on 4.6.1991. It was

claimed that Smt.Vinod Bala and and Subhash Chander hatched a

conspiracy with Naresh Kumar for getting divorce and remarriage of the FAO No.61-M of 1998 6 respondent, and that the appellant etc. received Rs.2 lacs (Rupees two lacs

only) from Naresh Kumar, so that she could get divorce and get FIR No.10

quashed. The respondent did not pursue her divorce petition. The FIR was

also quashed. Allegations of illicit relations between the appellant and

Smt.Vinod Bala were also alleged. Plea that the respondent was harassed for bringing insufficient

dowry were also levelled. It was claimed that the respondent had caught the

appellant and Vinod Bala red handed while performing sexual intercourse.

It was pleaded that the appellant and Smt. Vinod Bala turned the

respondent out of house by claiming that it was in the ownership of Smt.

Vinod Bala. On 8.9.1991 police was summoned by the respondent. When

the appellant was taken to the police station, where he disclosed that

divorce petition had been filed by him against the respondent. The appellant

compromised to withdraw the divorce petition. In September, 1991 Subhash

Chander came from Germany and started living at Putlighar. It was pleaded,

that respondent was stated to be having no right to stay in the house.

Appellant was said to have slipped away from the house intentionally, and

in his absence Subhash Chander and Smt.Vinod Bala gave beating to the

respondent and turned her out of house. With the police help the parties again started living together.

Appellant got himself transferred to Jalandhar and compromised to keep

her at Jalandhar, after arranging separate residence. He is also said to have

agreed to withdraw the petition. It was claimed that with the intervention of

police she had again gone to matrimonial home. On 29.2.1992 appellant and

the respondent had gone to Putlighar, at that time Vinod Bala and one FAO No.61-M of 1998 7 Surinder gave beating to the respondent and hr parents. They were

medically examined and since then the respondent is living at her parental

house. She claimed that she was still willing to accompany the appellant.

All other allegations were denied. In the replication averments made in the petition were reiterated

whereas averments made in the written statement were denied. On the pleadings of the parties the following issues were

framed by the learned Matrimonial Court. 1. Whether the marriage of the parties is null and void as

 the respondent has a spouse living at the time of

 marriage? OPP 2. Whether the consent of the petitioner was obtained by

 fraud by concealing the material facts concerning the

 previous alleged marriage of the respondent? OPP 3. Whether there has not been any unnecessary or improper

 delay in instituting the proceedings? OPR 4. Whether there is no other legal ground as to why relief

 claimed b the petitioner may not be granted to the

 petitioner? OPR 5. Relief. In support of the case appellant appeared as PW 2 and

examined Datta Ram as PW 1, and Sham Sunder as PW 3, whereas

respondent appeared as her own witness and examined RW 1

Dr.Sukhwinder Singh, RW 2 Barkat Singh, RW3 Smt.Raj, RW 4 ASI

Kulbir Singh and RW 5 Constable Satpal. Issues No.1 and 2 were taken up together. Learned matrimonial court on the basis of pleadings and

evidence on record came to the conclusion that the appellant was married to

Santushta Sharma and that she had filed a divorce petition on 3.3.89 against

the appellant and one Smt.Vinod Bala, on the allegations of illicit relations

and that the appellant was living in adultery. The appellant did not contest

the petition and divorce was granted on 4.9.1989. The respondent/wife was

married to Naresh Kumar on 23.1.1987. That Naresh Kumar was already

married to one Meera alias Elga and had children from her. The

respondent/wife divorced Naresh Kumar as per divorce deed dated

18.5.1991 and thereafter married the appellant on 4.6.1991. The learned

court also held that there was litigation pending between Naresh Kumar

and that one FIR was also got registered which was not pursued because

the appellant had promised to marry her. The learned matrimonial court

came to the conclusion that the dispute now to be decided was, whether the

marriage was performed on 12.3.1991 or on 4.6.1991. On the basis of evidence led, learned matrimonial court

recorded a finding that the marriage was solemnized on 4.6.1991. Learned

court also held that from the evidence led it was proved that the appellant

knew about the first marriage of the respondent with Naresh Kumar, and

that he agreed to marry her, it was for this reason that FIR and the petition

against Naresh Kumar were not contested by the respondent. The learned

court further held that it was not open to the appellant to challenge the

dissolution deed dated 18.5.1991, as it could only be challenged by Naresh

Kumar. The learned court also held that it had to be presumed that marriage FAO No.61-M of 1998 9 of the respondent with Naresh Kumar solemnized on 23.11.1987 was void

ab initio. The learned court decided issues No.1 and 2 against the appellant

whereas issues No.3 and 4 were decided against the respondent. In view of the findings on issues No.1 and 2, petition was ordered to

be dismissed. Mr.Sarwan Singh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf

of the appellant challenged the judgment and decree primarily on the

ground that the learned matrimonial court wrongly placed reliance on

Ex.RW2/1 to hold that the marriage of the respondent with Naresh Kumar

stood dissolved. Where Naresh Kumar had claimed the dissolution of

marriage by mutual consent. The contention of the learned counsel for the

appellant was that the marriage by way of mutual consent could only be

dissolved under section 13 (B) of the Act, and not merely by executing a

document of dissolution of marriage. He further referred to Ex.RW 2/1 to

show that the last two lines of Ex.RW 2/1 seems to have been written later

to support the stand of the respondent/wife, furthermore the signatures of

Naresh Kumar appearing below his name showed that document was not

genuine. Learned counsel for the appellant referred to the statement of

RW 2 wherein he claimed that Naresh Kumar was introduced to him by

Vijay Kumar Sharma, Advocate who was not examined. He had admitted

that normally he makes entries of attested documents in the register.

However, entry regarding this document was not made, as the register was

not with him when it was got attested. He further could not explain the

difference in space of typing on last two lines by stating that it was not FAO No.61-M of 1998 10 prepared in his presence. Learned senior counsel for the appellant contended that the

plea of the respondent that customary divorce was obtained by executing

document Ex.RW 2/1 cannot be accepted, for want of any evidence of

custom in the community. In support of this contention, learned counsel for

the appellant placed reliance on the judgment of this court in the case of Asha Rani Vs. Gulshan Kumar 1995 (2) HLR 23, wherein this Court was

pleased to lay down as under:- It is well settled law, that in order to succeed on custom the

person claiming custom has to plead and prove the custom. Except for the

pleading in the petition, there is absolutely no evidence to show prevalent

custom, in the community of the parties by which the divorce could be

granted with intervention of the respectables. Mr.D.S.Pheruman, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent could not controvert this contention. He took a stand that

document Ex.RW 2/1 be taken as an admission by Naresh Kumar, of

subsisting of marriage, when he got married to the respondent, so as to

assert that the marriage with Naresh Kumar was null and void. Learned counsel for the respondent placed reliance on the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M.M.Malhotra Vs.

Union of India and others AIR 2006 SC 80 to contend that the marriage

of the respondent being void did not need any declaration from the court.

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case referred to above was pleased to law

down as under:- Clause (i) of Section 5 lays down, for a lawful marriage, he

 necessary condition that neither party should have a spouse

 living at the time of the marriage. A marriage in contravention

 of this condition, therefore, is null and void. By reason of the

 overriding effect of the Marriage Act as mentioned in section 4 ,

 no aid can be taken of the earlier Hindu law or any custom or

 usage as a part of that law inconsistent with any provision of

 the Act. So far as Section 12 is concerned, it is confined to

 other categories of marriages and is not applicable to one

 solemnized in violation of Section 5 (i) of the Act. Sub-section

 (2) of Section 12 puts further restrictions on such a right. The

 cases covered by this section are not void ab initio, and unless

 all the conditions mentioned therein are fulfilled and the

 aggrieved party exercises the right to avoid it, the same FAO No.61-M of 1998 13 continues to be effective The marriages covered by Section 11 are void ipso jure, that is, void from the very inception, and

 have to be ignored as not existing in law at all if and when such

 a question arises. Although the section permits a formal

 declaration to be made on the presentation of a petition, it is not

 essential to obtain in advance such a formal declaration from a

 court in a proceeding specifically commenced for the purpose.

 The provisions of Section 16 , which is quoted below, also

 throw light on this aspect. " On consideration of matter, I find force in the contentions

raised by the learned senior counsel for the appellant. Learned matrimonial court could not have held the marriage

between the parties to be valid, merely by placing reliance on the the

document Ex.RW 2/1 as the document could not be said to be a document of

dissolution of marriage, as the respondent failed to prove custom. The

marriage which was null and void could not be held to be valid, even if the

appellant was in know of previous marriage of the respondent. The contention of the learned counsel for the respondent, that

the previous marriage was null and void and therefore, could not be a

ground to declare the marriage between the parties as nullity, also cannot be

sustained for the reason that in support of Ex.RW 2/1 Naresh Kumar was

not examined. As already observed above the statement of RW 2 could not

be accepted in view of the fact that the document was not entered in register,

and furthermore he was not able to explain the doubts in the document, FAO No.61-M of 1998 15 where two lines looked to be inserted lateron showing the admission of

Naresh Kumar, that he was already married and was having children. It cannot be disputed that a marriage of the parties during the

subsistence of earlier marriage is a nullity, and no declaration is required.

What has to be seen in the present case is as to whether the respondent was

able to prove the fact that Naresh Kumar was married at the time of marriage

with respondent. The only evidence in this regard is the statement of respondent,

wherein she has claimed that Naresh Kumar was earlier married. In her

statement, she admitted that she had seen the marriage certificate of Naresh

Kumar with Meera. No certificate was produced or summoned. The

respondent is guilty of withholding the best evidence. It is not only this

factor but it may further be noticed that it was admitted case of the

respondent that divorce petition was filed by Naresh Kumar, wherein Naresh

Kumar pleaded that at the time of marriage with the respondent he was a

bachelor. Ex.AW 2/3 was also produced which is again an admitted

document wherein it was specifically pleaded that the marriage between the

respondent and Naresh Kumar was solemnized on 23.11.1987 at Amritsar

and they lived together after the marriage, and that the Naresh Kumar left

for Germany in the last week of December 1987. In the application under section 24 of the Act the plea taken by

the respondent was that she was victim at the hand of Naresh Kumar and his

family members, and that she was turned out of matrimonial home after

inflicting cruelty. Not a word was said either in the written statement or in

the application moved under section 24 of the Act that the marriage was FAO No.61-M of 1998 16 nullity or that any fraud was played on the respondent. Petition filed by Naresh Kumar was dismissed in default on

17.7.1990. The petition was got restored but was again dismissed on

20.1.1992. Therefore, there is a judgment and decree by the competent court

holding the marriage between respondent and Naresh Kumar to be valid as

the divorce petition was dismissed. It may further be pertinent to notice here

that the respondent in her application under section 24 of the Act took a

specific stand that Naresh Kumar had no liability and that all his brothers

and sisters were well settled. Therefore, the stand of the respondent that

Naresh Kumar was earlier married is nothing but an afterthought to raise

defence in this petition. In view of the findings recorded above the judgment of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of M.M.Malhotra Vs. Union of India and

others (supra) has no application to the facts of the case, as the

respondent has miserably failed to prove that Naresh Kumar was earlier

married so as to claim that the marriage was a nullity. Once it is held that there was subsisting marriage of respondent

at the time of marriage with the respondent his conduct becomes irrelevant

as the marriage between the parties in violation of Section 5 of the Act is

void ab initio and nullity. Finding of the learned matrimonial court on issues

No.1 and 2 are, therefore, reversed and the issues are decided in favour of

the appellant. The learned counsel for the respondent also placed reliance on

the order passed by this court in a criminal proceedings initiated for

bigamy holding therein that because of earlier marriage with Naresh Kumar FAO No.61-M of 1998 17 being null and void criminal proceedings were liable to be quashed. This contention of the learned counsel for the respondent also

cannot be accepted. Firstly, for the reason that the said observation by this

court were based on the fact, that the petition filed by the husband for

declaring marriage null and void stood dismissed, by holding that there was

no valid marriage between Naresh Kumar and respondent. Decision of this

court was, therefore, based on the findings recorded in the case which was

subjudice in this court. Otherwise also, it is well settled that the findings of

the criminal court are not binding on the civil court. The court is to decide

the case on the basis of evidence and pleadings. Resultantly, this appeal is allowed, the judgment and decree

passed by the learned matrimonial court is set aside. The petition filed by

the petitioner under section 11 of the Act is allowed, the marriage between

the parties is declared to be dissolved by decree of nullity of marriage. No

costs. (Vinod K.Sharma)
20.08.2009 Judge
rp