The US state of Tennessee has recently enacted a law titled Ensuring Likeness Voice and Image Security (ELVIS) Act, aimed at protecting the voice and likenesses of music industry professionals, singers, and performers from Artificial Intelligence (AI) voice cloning. The bill passed both houses of the state legislature with a complete majority and was signed into law by the Governor of the state on 21st March.

The act replaces the Personal Rights Protection Act of 1984 and has the following key points :

According to the Governor’s press release, Tennessee has a burgeoning music industry supporting more than 61,617 jobs across the state, contributes $5.8 billion to our GDP, and fills over 4,500 music venues. The act is intended to protect the commercial interests of the music industry from the impact of generative AI, especially voice cloning. The law received widespread support from music industry professionals.

However, concerns have been raised about the law’s broad definitions. As a New York Times report pointed out, the act may inadvertently limit certain performances such as Elvis impersonations, tributes, or mimicry artists. Notably, the act also does not seem to mention AI specifically but states that one who “distributes, transmits, or otherwise makes available an algorithm, software, tool, or other technology, service, or device, the primary purpose or function of such algorithm, software, tool, or other technology, service, or device is the production of a particular, identifiable individual’s photograph, voice, or likeness” is liable for civil action. This means that creators, alongside users of generative AI that can be used for voice cloning may be held liable.

This development follows the introduction of the No Artificial Intelligence Fake Replicas And Unauthorized Duplications (No AI FRAUD) Bill in the federal House of Representatives, aimed at protecting the face, voice, or likeness of individuals from unauthorized AI fakes. The bill would provide individuals with Intellectual Property (IP) rights over their likeness, allowing them to take action against those who facilitate, create, or spread unauthorized AI imitations. Critics have argued against the proposed law due to its sweeping scope, which may prevent digital intermediaries from hosting likenesses altogether. For example, the wording of the bill is broad enough that it may even cover parodies, depictions of historical figures in movies, or depictions of real people in true-crime shows.

Copyright in the age of AI is one of the most pressing issues facing legislators and entrepreneurs today. As Large Language Models (LLM) use massive datasets as part of their training, many have accused AI entrepreneurs of copyright infringement. Earlier this month, a group of authors sued Nvidia for unauthorized use of their published works in training its proprietary AI. Six separate groups of authors have also sued OpenAI with similar claims. Copyright expert Pravin Anand expressed the need to update copyright laws as generative AI has entered the creative industry.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event