The funding disbursed under the Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) scheme declined from Rs 93.13 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 10.69 crore in 2023-24, disclosed the Minister of State for Home Affairs Bandi Sanjay Kumar in the Lok Sabha. The dwindling funding comes amid the consistent rise in the cases of cybercrime against women reported in the last five years.

Kumar was responding to a query posed by MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi seeking the following clarifications:

Kumar’s response detailed the following total funds disbursed to states year-wise:

Further, the union territory of Delhi has received no funding under the CCPWC scheme since the Rs 2.51 crore granted between 2017-18, while states like Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Manipur, among others, have consistently received little to no funding over the years. However, considering the state-wise cybercrime cases, Telangana reported the highest number (15,297 cases) and Uttar Pradesh reported 10,117 cases as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2022.

In a similar vein, the number of cybercrime incidents related to crimes against women reported on the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP) has soared from 22,188 cases in 2020 to 48,475 cases in 2024. These include incidents related to child sexual abuse material (CSAM) content such as child pornography, rape content, sexually abusive, obscene, or explicit materials or acts. Additionally, online and social media-related crime has surged from 56,283 cases in 2020 to 1,56,938 cases in 2024.

The drastic decline in funding for the CCPWC scheme raises obvious questions, like concerns about the potential rise in unreported cases or online exploitation. Seeking to understand other implications of this decrease, MediaNama spoke to women activists in the country. Bishakha Datta, Executive Director at the non-profit group Point of View, elaborated on the root cause of the issue. “Even though the prevalence of gender-based violence online has increased through crimes like deepfakes and sextortion, poor digital literacy limits women’s ability to respond to such situations,” Datta explains. For context , according to the National Sample Survey 78, only 21% of women above the age of 15 have some form of digital literacy.

Datta explained that there are only two avenues for women to report cyber incidents: the tech platform or the law. Despite these options, women only contact law enforcement authorities provided there exist certain guardrails like the presence of women police officers, understanding of privacy protection norms, and adequate resources to tackle cyber crimes, she added. Datta cited a potential example of police officers passing a victim’s image around recklessly as a privacy violation.

Her comments were also echoed in a previous MediaNama discussion on challenges to encryption in India. Speakers alleged that alongside technical issues, the mentality of Indian police also prevents women from approaching them and filing FIRs. Besides this, cybercrime stations mostly act efficiently in cases of “tangible, quantifiable harm” like bank fraud while disregarding cases of online harm and violence against women in the absence of monetary losses, another speaker claimed.

Kumar’s response in the Lok Sabha also detailed the specifics of the CCPWC scheme, launched under the Nirbhaya Fund alongside other measures to curb cybercrime. To begin, state funding under the scheme extends for “capacity building” like the establishment of cyber forensic-cum training laboratories, commissioned in 33 states and union territories as of 2024. Further, the Home Ministry also allocates funds for hiring junior cyber consultants and for training law enforcement agency (LEA) personnel, public prosecutors, and judicial officers.

These initiatives add to other efforts by the government, like the setup of the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), NCRP, National Cyber Forensic Laboratory, Cyber Fraud Mitigation Centre (CMFC), and Joint Cyber Coordination Teams (JCCT). Besides this, the Indian government has also launched platforms like ‘Samanvaya’ (a data repository for coordination among LEAs) and ‘Pratimb’ (sharing location data of criminals with jurisdictional officers).

Speaking of alternate measures for cybercrime prevention, Datta suggested improving digital literacy for children at the school level. Besides this, she advocated for the classification of certain levels of cybercrime under civil laws. “Specific cyber offences that are more minor, for instance, writing abusive comments, can be remedied by economic penalties like fines,” Datta opined. Besides this, she also noted that big tech platforms must take accountability for the crimes perpetrated on their platforms.

Platform accountability was also stressed by Majlis Director Audrey D’Mello as a potential remedy to cybercrime. Majlis is a social and legal support group for women and children victims of domestic violence. D’Mello noted that alongside streamlining coordination between various government agencies handling cybercrime, social media and online platforms should undertake active intervention and act fast enough to take down content.

Notably, big tech platforms like Meta , Google , and X (formerly Twitter) contain mechanisms for users to flag and report content they find inappropriate or in case of violation of their ‘community guidelines’. Meta has a three-part approach to its content enforcement: remove (taking down content, disabling accounts, counting strikes), reduce (reducing the distribution of problematic content and imposing penalties), and inform (providing context on sensitive content). Platforms like YouTube , Instagram , and Facebook claim to review reported content within 24 hours, in case the user disagrees with the platform’s verdict on the latter two. Meanwhile, X explains that it reviews reports within 24 hours, with resolution times extending from a few days to a month.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event