In covid19 period i decided to start a mobile recharge business. I searched online and got http://www.masterrecharge.co.in/ a ratlam based company. I submitted my details om theri website, then i received a call from avinash mobile no: [protected]. http://www.masterrecharge.co.in/ is a cheater I wanted to become a retailer but he insisted me to become a distributor and said that you not need to pay anything extra, only 300rs needs to be paid for activation. An i can add retailers and i will have to pay rs280 for each retailer only when i add them. After that i registered and paid rs300 on their site for regstration. Then he asked me to pay money in any one of following bank accounts: State bank of india Account name – master recharge services Account number – [protected] Ifsc code – sbin0000466 Branch name – main branch ratlam Canara bank Account name – master recharge services Account number –[protected] Ifsc code – cnrb0002463 Branch name – ratlam branch Then i transferred rs1000 to his sbi account and started using his service. After 2 recharges i was unable to recharge as he said rs 100 will remain blocked, i wanted to recharge for 555 my balance was 612 so he said i can recharge only for 512. So i added 1000 rs to his sbi account again, but it was not credited, then he said that i need to add rs3500 onetime as its a distributor account and the 3500 will be available for recharge purpose. After that i added more 2500 to his sbi account, then messaged him but the amount was not added on that day. Also he didnot picked up my call. Next day whole day i tried contacting him he said plese provide kyc form and docs then again his no. Was buy or he didnt picked up my call.in late evening he picked up my call and said money is added but only 196rs was added. I again called him then he said he will check with accounts and reply. Then i received an email from him stating: 25/6/20 Deposit = 3500 10 retailer (280 each) = 2800 Gst = 504 Available = 196 I also think he doesnot depsoits gst to government as he has not provided any gst invoice, its a fraud company http://www.masterrecharge.co.in/ is fraud . When i called him he is saying he has my call recording that he said that this amount will be deducted. But i also have the recording that he said i will have to pay rs 280 for each retailer i add and not at once. He is a fraud person and has frauded many people, i have filed a complain against him on https://www.cybercrime.gov.in/ with ack no : ack. No. [protected] Hope cybercrime people crack this scam as he has looted many people and i appeal to every one please report this matter to the officials so that such fraud company gets closed. I founded many posts stating this company as fraud, master recharge services is a fraud company they just loot people by asking them to add rs3500. An no one has complaint about it to the police or it would have been stopped. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (4)