SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help for resolving Amazon India Scam/Hack
DATE: 2023-01-13
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/10anuit/help_for_resolving_amazon_india_scamhack/

--- POST TEXT ---

tl;dr: Amazon account got hacked, which I believe was part of a scam. Looking for advice on how to contact someone who can help with the issue.

I'm in a bit of pickle.

I bought a 4090 graphics card at Amazon, for close to US pricing. The Gigabyte Waterforce edition, which has a liquid cooling AIO, with a 340 mm rad.

Given that usual pricing is much more inflated in India, I thought it was a good deal. 
The product was not Amazon fulfilled, so I had my doubts, but I thought Amazon's buyer protection would at least make it possible to return the product if it was a fraud.

The following things have happened since then,

1. The product was shipped on 10th Jan
2. I got a DTDC tracking label, which shows no information

Also,

1. I got logged out of my amazon application and websites, I can no longer login through email or phone number
2. When I call Amazon support ( 1800 3000 1593 / 1800 3000 9009), they would not let me proceed unless I can verify my identity, and they say no such account exists either for the email or the phone number
3. Finally I got a suggestion to email [ofm@amazon.com](mailto:ofm@amazon.com), and I get the same response, that they cannot communication account details over email, unless verified
4. I also tried Twitter (@AmazonHelp) and they gave the same cookie cutter response, that they would look into it by 48 hours.

The only other option I think is to physically go to one of their offices where complaints are processed, identify myself and show the order confirmation/dispatch emails that are still in my email account, and SMS on my mobile.

At this point in time, I'm not sure how to process. 
I'm posting this on Reddit, in the hope that,

1. Someone here knows someone at Amazon who can help me out, or
2. Someone here knows the Amazon office where customer complaints are dealt with

I have proof of all these details but I cant seem to reach anyone who can help out. I am not sure if the account has been deleted or just the credentials changed.

As for the title, I'm really bothered by how my Amazon account was hacked, I never thought that would be possible for a security focused company like Amazon. And yes, my credentials were pretty strong, and not a weak password (also, I got not notification on my email).