SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Legal standpoint of Nupur Sharma case, anti-hate speech laws in India, French freedom of speech &amp; Contempt of Court!
DATE: 2022-07-01
SCORE: 60
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/vp6i9z/legal_standpoint_of_nupur_sharma_case_antihate/

--- POST TEXT ---

#Part-1

Nupur Sharma is definitely not legally responsible for the crimes that happened in the country. Whether or not, she has caused the chaos is debatable at this moment and positions on this particular topic is under judicial discourse. 

This is the sole fault of our police system that didn't arrest the protestors who were openly screaming murder rant in streets and giving rape threats, under the charge of threat to commit criminal acts.

 Coming to Nupur, she should be also arrested for hate speech under the current hate speech laws of India. Yes, the right to freedom of speech in India is not the same as that of France. We have defamation laws as well as communal hate speech laws. These are the same laws under which Muhammad Zubair was arrested for posting a meme and calling Yati Narasimhanand as hatemongerer on the complaint of a random twitter account. 

These are the same laws according to which the member of West Bengal BJP was arrested by Mamata Banerjee government just because she retweeted a meme of Mamata Banerjee on social media.

#Part-2

The statement regarding Aisha's age at the time of marriage given by Nupur Sharma is the same as what Zakir Naik said in his Dawah shows on her age at the time of marriage with the Prophet of Islam. Yes, Zakir Naik approved the same hadith which Nupur cited. 

But as he is not in India right now nor any member of muslim community is filing FIR, so his fate is different from Nupur Sharma who is being targeted just like how Salman Rushdie was targeted for his book, Satanic Verses.

The thing to note down that almost all the four schools of Sunni Islamic thought as well as Shia theological interpretation of Iranian head Imam consider that hadith of Sahih Muslim to be authentic. 

Yes, Quranists reject hadith but there is no Quranist organisation or country or individual that is demanding death sentence for Nupur Sharma on streets or even filing FIR against her as on the behalf on entire muslim community. Also, Quranists are technically non-muslims according to all the Islamic schools acknowledged by Islamic countries and Indian law.

#Part-3

But in this whole complicated situation, BJP doesn't has any moral virute to defend Nupur Sharma's defense against arrest because BJP government itself has been arresting people for tweets and on the basis of even random witness. 

For e.g. Munawar Faruqui was arrested for days without trial because of the complaint of son of a BJP MLA who told in the FIR that he saw Munawar secretly planning backstage to insult Lord Ram, without any concrete evidence like video, audio or handwritten proof.

Also, the supporters of Nupur Sharma can't criticize court because it's contempt of court under which Kunal Kamra was arrested and fined by court just because he criticized Indian court in his tweet. And BJP supported the arrest of Kunal Kamra at that time. So, technically now all the people who are criticising the court's statement should be arrested in the same way.

#🌟The only way all this can be prevented if BJP government amends the anti- hate speech and contempt of judiciary laws and establishes complete freedom of expression in India just like France and frees all the people who have been arrested and fined under such laws.