This first appeal is at the instance of a wife who was a defendant in a suit

for declaration that the marriage was a nullity, and in the alternative, for divorce

on the ground of cruelty and is directed against the judgment and decree dated

20th March, 2006 passed by the learned Additional District Judge, First Court,

Murshidabad, in Matrimonial Suit No.256 of 1996, thereby declaring the
 marriage to be nullity on the ground of suppression of material fact concerning

the wife. Being dissatisfied, the wife has come up with the present first appeal.

 The husband-respondent filed in the Court of District Judge, Nadia a suit

being Matrimonial Suit No.77 of 1994 which was subsequently, on basis of an

order passed by this Court on an application of the wife under Section 24 of the

Code of Civil Procedure, transferred to the Court of Additional District Judge,

First Court, Murshidabad at Berhampore and was renumbered as Matrimonial

Suit No.256 of 1996. The case made out by the husband in the application under Section 12 of

the Hindu Marriage Act and in the alternative, for divorce under Section 13 thereof, as it stands after the amendment of the application, may be summed up

thus: The suit was contested by the respondent by filing written statement

thereby denying the material allegations made in the plaint. According to the wife, the marriage was consummated on the night of the

Fulsajja itself and as such, the allegation regarding non-consummation of

marriage was absolutely false. As regards the allegation of suppression of the fact

that the wife could not pass B.A. Examination, according to the wife, such fact

was disclosed to the husband when they came to see her. The further case of the wife is that after the marriage, the wife for the first

time felt pain on her left breast at the time of sexual intercourse, as a result, she

informed her difficulties to her husband when her husband took her to a doctor

and after being examined by the doctor, she came to know that there was a
 tumour. Therefore, the allegation that knowing well that there existed a tumour

in her breast, she was given in marriage was absolutely wrong. The suit was,

thus, liable to be dismissed. The amended version of the plaint regarding making

false allegations before the police was also denied. At the time of hearing of the suit, the husband himself and his father

gave evidence in support of the allegations made in the petition, while the wife

herself, her father and one Bangshi Badan Roy gave evidence in opposing the

prayer of the husband. As indicated earlier, the learned Trial Judge by the judgment and decree

impugned herein was of the view that concealment of the fact that the wife was

not a graduate amounted to suppression of material fact. The learned Trial Judge

also found that it was the duty of the wife to disclose that she had a tumour in

her breast at the time of the marriage and suppression of such fact also was a

valid ground for annulment of the marriage. The learned Trial Judge also found

that the wife made false allegation before the police against the husband and that

fact constituted cruelty but having regard to the fact that there was suppression

of material fact concerning the wife at the time of the marriage, the learned Trial

Judge decided to pass the decree of nullity of the marriage instead of passing a

decree for divorce. Being dissatisfied, the wife has come up with the present appeal.
 After hearing the learned counsel for the parties and after going through

the materials on record we find that it has been established from the evidence

that the wife had a tumour in her left breast even before her marriage and this

fact has been admitted in the letter being Exbt.3 written by her maternal uncle to

her husband. Similarly, it has also been established from the evidence that the

wife was not a graduate but she failed in one subject, as a result, got

compartmental in B.A. Examination but according to her, this fact was disclosed

at the time of negotiation. Regarding the age of the respondent, we, however, find

that the actual age admitted by her in evidence is about one year more than the

one disclosed in the letter written by her father in the postcard in answer to the

advertisement of marriage. Therefore, the first question that arises for determination in this appeal is

whether concealment of the fact that there was a tumour in the left breast of the

wife at the time of the marriage is fatal enabling the husband to get a declaration

of nullity of the marriage in terms of Section 12 of the Act. Similarly, the second question is whether the mere fact, that in the letter

written in reply to the advertisement given by the father of the husband, the

father of the wife disclosed that the wife was a graduate whereas she failed in

B.A. Examination, is by itself sufficient for declaring the marriage to be a nullity

on the ground of suppression of material fact concerning the wife and finally,

whether suppression of the fact that the age of the wife at the time of the
 marriage was about one year more than what was disclosed in her Bio Data is a

ground for declaring the marriage as a nullity. In order to appreciate the aforesaid questions, it will be advantageous to

refer to the provisions, contained in Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which

are quoted below: (Emphasis Supplied by us). From a plain reading of the aforesaid Section it is clear that in order to

maintain a suit for annulment of the marriage under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act, it

must be established by the party applying for annulment that the suit was filed
 within one year from the date of discovery of the fraud and that after the

discovery of the fraud, he or she had not lived with the other spouse as husband

or wife, as the case may be. We, therefore, first proceed to ascertain whether the husband in this case

has complied with the aforesaid requirements of the law. In this case, the marriage had taken place on March 1, 1993 and thus,

the Fulsajja ceremony had taken place on March 3, 1993. The suit has been filed

on March 24, 1994. According to the plaint case and the evidence of the husband in the

examination-in-chief, on May 21, 1993 after the examination by the doctor in

Kalyani, the wife for the first time confessed before him that the tumour in her

left breast was already in existence before her marriage and that wrong statement

regarding her age and educational qualification was given at the time of marriage.

Such fact has been denied by the wife and according to her, on the night of

Fulsajja, the marriage was consummated and she for the first time, at the time of

sexual cohabitation felt pain on her breast and subsequently, they had regular

cohabitations and on May 20, 1993 since the pain in the left breast aggravated,

she was taken to the doctor on the next day. The husband, on the other hand,

stated that although they lived together in the same room and in the same bed,

the wife never permitted him to touch her body and the marriage was not even
 consummated and on May 20, 1993 she having complained pain in the left

breast, on the next day she was taken to the doctor. In our opinion, no "prudent man" within the meaning of the word

"proved" as indicated in Section 3 of the Evidence Act will believe the version of

the husband that the wife did not permit him to touch her for more than two

months although they were staying in the same room and in the same bed till

May 28, 1993 when her father took her back. That the story of the husband was

untrue will appear from the deposition of his nonagenarian father who appearing

as PW-2 admitted in his examination-in-chief that on the day following Fulsajja,

his wife told him that Anju had breast tumour. If the wife did not permit the

husband to touch her body on the Fulsajja or till her departure in the month of

May, 1993 after more than two months from the date of marriage, the mother-in-

law of the wife had no occasion to know on the day following Fulsajja that the

wife had tumour in her breast and to communicate such fact to her husband.

The PW-2 in cross-examination, tried to deviate from the said statement by

making inconsistent statements. In one place, he stated that 7 to 8 days after

marriage, his wife told him about the existence of the tumour. Subsequently, he

further deviated by saying that before going to doctor, his son told him that there

was pain on the breast of Anju and his son did not say such things to his

mother. In the next sentence, he stated that his son told such things to his

daughter who in her turn conveyed such fact to her mother. He, however, in
 answer to a question put to him in cross-examination made the following

statements: It is, therefore, clear that on the very night of the Fulsajja, the marriage

was consummated and the fact that the wife had tumour in her breast was

known to all the persons of the family of the husband and the source of such

information was definitely the husband and the husband could not get such

information if the wife really did not permit him to touch her body. We are, therefore, convinced that the marriage was consummated on the

night of Fulsajja as alleged by the wife and in spite of discovery of tumour, they

lived together as husband and wife, had regular cohabitations and ultimately, on

May 20, 1993, when the pain in the breast was intensified, she was taken to the

doctor on the next day. Therefore, the suppression of existence of a tumour in the

left breast in this case cannot be put forward as a ground of nullity when in spite

of knowledge of such tumour on March 3, 1993 the respondent lived with the

appellant as husband and wife till May 28, 1993. Over and above, the tumour in this case had already been operated even

before the institution of the suit and thus, the wife was totally cured of such

tumour. Even thereafter, there was no justification of filing the suit for
 declaration of nullity of the marriage on March 20, 1994 when the tumour was

operated in the month of August 1993 and the husband was present at the time

of operation on the alleged "humanitarian ground". In his cross-examination resumed on March 21, 2001 the husband made

the following statements quoted below: During this (sic) two months I had no dispute with my wife."

 After making such statement, he, however, swerved from the aforesaid

statements by making the following statements: From the evidence given by the husband and his father, it is, thus,

apparent that the existence of tumour was known to the husband from the night

of Fulsajja and in spite of such knowledge, they lived as husband and wife for

more than the next two months and even after the operation of the tumour, the

husband decided not to take back his wife on the ground of false information

about the educational qualification and the age of the wife. Since in this case, it has been proved from the materials on record that

the parties had sexual intercourse even after discovery of the tumour, we do not

intend to consider whether simply living as husband and wife without sexual

intercourse even after discovery of fraud would amount of waiver of the right to

annul the marriage in view of difference of language in Sections 12(2)(a)(ii) and 12

(2)(b)(iii) as will appear from the fact that in Section 12(2)(b)(iii) , the language

used is "that marital intercourse with the consent of the petitioner has not

taken place since the discovery by the petitioner of the existence of the said

ground" whereas in Section 12(2)(a)(iii) , a case of the present nature, the

legislature in the same Section has used different language viz. "the petitioner

has, with his or her full consent, lived with the other party to the marriage

as husband or wife after the force had ceased to operate or, as the case may be,

the fraud had been discovered;" From the aforesaid statements, it is clear that the husband was not so

much concerned about music so as to annul the consummated marriage on the

ground of absence of diploma in music up to fourth year as wrongly stated in the

Bio Data of the wife. We now propose to deal with the decisions cited by Mr. Mukherjee. In the case of Smt. Bindu Sharma vs. Ram Prakash Sharma and others reported in AIR 1997 All 429, the contention of the petitioner was that she would

not have given consent to marry the respondent No.1 if she had known the real

fact that the respondent No.1 did not have a secured job in the Sugar Factory. It

was said that the petitioner expressed her willingness to marry with the

respondent No.1, because the latter represented to her before the marriage that

he was employed in the Sugar Factory on a monthly salary of Rs.1,700/-. In such

a fact, the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court was of the view that every

girl before marriage, and more so, a well-educated girl like the petitioner in that

case , would prefer to marry, a stably-employed person to secure her future and

marriage with an unemployed person would be the last resort. According to the

Division Bench, the petitioner, being a well-educated girl, having much higher

academic standard than that of the husband, would have weighed pros and cons

before giving consent if she knew the real fact. She had nodded for the marriage

on the consideration that the respondent No.1 was possessed of an attractive job;

and therefore, the fact of employment was a material fact. In the case before us,

the husband had failed to prove that the misstatement regarding qualification

was a material fact; over and above, the tumour having already been removed,

suppression of existence of tumour has lost its significance. We, thus, find that the said decision does not help the respondent in anyway. In the case of Anurag Anand vs. Sunita Anand reported in AIR 1997 Del

94, the question was whether giving wrong information as regards financial
 status of the husband amounted to suppression of material fact justifying

annulment of marriage. In that context, it was held for a girl to give her consent

to a marriage-proposal, unless it was a love marriage, the financial status of the

other party was quite an important factor because everyone wants to have a

comfortable living and for that, a level of monthly income and of property-status

of the other party are required. In addition to monthly income of the other party,

the court proceeded, his property-status assumed considerable importance.

According to the said decision , one needed financial security in the time of need

to fall back upon and this level of monthly income and property-status would

differ from case to case depending upon the status of the family of the girl. It was

further pointed out that if the girl is herself working then it also becomes her

aspiration to marry a boy who is earning more than her income and a girl would

definitely prefer a boy in marriage whose parents have sufficient landed property

so that she was not required to curtail her monthly expenditure for acquiring

landed property to fall back in emergent needs. The court, therefore, held that in

the facts of the said case, the misstatement about the the monthly income and

the property-status of the appellant should be held to be material facts and

circumstance concerning him as envisaged in Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage

Act. We do not for a moment dispute the aforesaid proposition of law as

regards the misstatement of the status of the bridegroom but the said decision ,

at any rate, is not applicable to the facts of a case of misstatement of age of a
 bride by less than one year where the bridegroom himself has given his wrong

declaration of age, or the qualification of the bride where the petitioner himself is

a B.Com. and the appellant had failed in one subject in B.A. examination and no

evidence has been given to show that he wanted a graduate wife for any

particular purpose. Similarly, the suppression of the existence of a tumour which

has since been removed has lost its significance. In the case of A. Premchand vs. V. Padmapriya reported in AIR 1997 Mad

135, according to the appellant/husband, the basic thing for filing the petition

was that his consent was obtained by giving wrong date of birth of the

respondent/wife prior to the date of marriage. He further contended that if the

said fact was known, namely, the true date of birth as January 6, 1961, he could

not have given consent because the difference of age of the parties was only of a

few months. The date of birth of the husband in that case was April 24, 1960.

The learned trial judge held that the husband came to know the real age of the

wife before the marriage and thus, dismissed the petition. On appeal by the

husband before the High Court, the said court was satisfied that in the light of

the specific stand taken in the counter affidavit and in the absence of any reply,

it was inclined to accept the case of the respondent that the appellant was aware

of the correct date of birth prior to the date of marriage through the brother of

the wife who met the appellant on February 15, 1987 in the matrimonial home at

Vysarpadi, Madras-39. The High Court further held that on analysing the said

evidence in the light of the provisions in the Family Courts Act , more particularly
 with reference to Section 14 thereof, as rightly observed by the court below, the

conclusion reached by the court below could not be said to be either erroneous or

improper. In the case before us, although the husband at the time of deposition

in the month of August, 1999 has asserted his age to be 36 years meaning that

he was thus born in the year 1963 whereas the wife was born in the month of

December, 1967 more than four years after the birth of the husband, it appears

from the affidavit affirmed on August 28, 2008 in connection with an application

for expeditious disposal of this appeal that he declared his age to be 47 years

which is inconsistent with the one given at the time of deposition before the trial

court. Again, in his affidavit-in-opposition to the application for alimony pendent

lite filed before this court on July 17, 2006 he indicated his age to 46 years which

means he was born in the year 1960. Thus, there is sufficient difference of age

between the parties in this case. If he was prepared to marry the appellant on the

assumption that she was 10 months younger there is no reason why should he

not marry her if found to be older by 10 months than the declared age of the wife.

Moreover, he himself admitted that he did not disclose his correct age in his

advertisement and we find that he is not consistent about his own age in

different stages of the same matrimonial proceedings. Therefore, the said Madras

decision where difference of age of the parties was just eight months does not

help the respondent in anyway. As regards the principles laid down in the two decisions of the Supreme

Court, viz. State of A.P. and another vs. T. Suryachandra Rao , reported in AIR
 2005 SC 3110 and Deelip Singh alias Dilip Kumar vs. State of Bihar , reported in

AIR 2005 SC 203, relied upon by Mr. Mukherjee, the former dealt with the

question of effect of fraud on the court and the latter, laying down the meaning of

the word "consent" in the context of the offence of rape in connection with a

criminal proceeding, in our opinion, have no application to the facts of the

present case where we are required to consider whether misstatement of the

educational qualification and knowledge of music, and suppression of the

existence of a tumour in the breast of the wife which has since been removed by

operation during the pendency of the matrimonial proceedings should be termed

as fraud as to a "material fact concerning the respondent" so as to annul the

marriage which had since been consummated. We have already pointed out that

the husband is a B.Com and deals in rice and had no intention of employing his

wife to a job which required graduation as a qualification. Similarly, in his family,

only one of his sisters-in-law is a graduate and the other one is a matriculate. His

own educational qualification is not so high that he will feel ashamed to have an

undergraduate wife. The husband had also no knowledge of music. The husband

has admitted that he was satisfied with the answers given by his wife to the

questions put to her when he interviewed her before the marriage and being

satisfied, he decided to marry her. Thus, for those untrue statements concerning

the wife, the husband has not been prejudicially affected so as to declare the

marriage to be nullity on the ground of fraud. We, thus, find that the husband has even failed to prove that in this case

there has been any material misstatement of fact on the part of the wife so as to

bring the case within the meaning of Section 12(1)(c) of the Act. Mr. Mukherjee, the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the

respondent, after having failed to persuade us to agree with the reasons assigned

by the learned Trial Judge, however, tried to make out a new case before us by

contending that in this case really the provision contained in sub-section (a) of Section 12(1) has been attracted and we should maintain the decree on that

ground. We are unable to accept such contention on twofold ground.

 First, the said sub-section speaks of a situation where there is no

consummation of marriage due to impotency of the respondent. In this case, we

have found that the marriage was duly consummated and the allegation of the

husband that the wife did not permit him to touch her body has been found to be

false. Moreover, a tumour in a breast cannot make a wife impotent within the

meaning of sub-section (a) of Section 12(1) of the Act. Secondly, as pointed out by the Supreme Court in the case of Yuvraj

Digvijay Singh vs. Yuvrani Pratap Kumari reported in AIR 1970 SC 137, a party

is impotent if his or her mental or physical condition makes consummation of the

marriage a practical impossibility. At this juncture, we may profitably refer to the Wharton's Law Lexicon,

Fourteen Edition, which has defined the word "impotence" as follows: In this case, as indicated earlier, the tumour had already been removed in

the month of August, 1993 and thus, after the removal of such tumour, there is

even no impediment in enjoying full-fledged sexual intercourse and the husband

had no justification of filing the suit even after the removal of the tumour on the

ground of suppression of real educational qualification of the wife or her age

which we have found against the husband. We, therefore, find no substance in the aforesaid additional ground urged

by Mr. Mukherjee before us. At this stage, Mr. Mukherjee tried to convince us that we should at least

grant the alternative remedy of divorce on the ground of cruelty of the wife as she

made baseless allegation against the husband before the police during the

pendency of the suit which was incorporated in the plaint by way of amendment. According to the amended version of the plaint, the wife during the

pendency of the suit in the year 1995, made false allegations against the

husband before the police that the husband, in order to demand dowry, was
 harassing the father of the wife and had actually driven away the wife from the

matrimonial home. The husband complained that in view of such false

allegations, the police came to his residence and made enquiry for which he was

humiliated before his neighbours. His father tried to make out a further case that

due to such allegation, the respondent and her parents were taken to the police

station although no such case has been made out either in the amended plaint or

in the evidence of the husband. The wife has in her cross-examination, admitted

that she made allegation regarding demand of money and other valuable articles

by threatening her parents. The wife in her additional written statements has denied that she made

any false statements. Although a xerox copy of the said complaint made by the wife before the

Superintendent of Police, Nadia was filed by the husband, for the reason best

known to him, he did not ultimately try to prove the said document and as such,

the same was not marked as Exhibit. We have, however, gone through the said document as the wife has not

disputed that she made a written complaint before the police as alleged by the

husband but her defence was that the allegations were not false. It appears from the said written complaint that she alleged that her

husband by making false allegations against her with the intention of getting

dowry from her parents drove her away from the matrimonial home. It is further
 alleged that during her stay at her husband's house, the members of the

husband's family misbehaved with her by inflicting mental and physical torture

and also instigated her to commit suicide. She tried her best to stay in her

matrimonial home after bearing with those insults and misbehaviour but the

husband had filed a Matrimonial suit with false allegations after driving her

away. Even her ornaments and other articles given to her at the time of marriage

were not allowed to be removed. It is further alleged that the husband was

threatening her and her parents when she went to the Court at Krishnanagar to

contest the Matrimonial Proceedings with dire consequences. According to the

said complaint, her husband was an influential person of the locality having

support of antisocial elements of the locality and in such circumstances, she

prayed for protection of herself and her parents due the threats given to them. It appears from records that on an application under Section 24 of the

Code of Civil Procedure filed by the wife, this High Court had transferred the

Matrimonial proceedings from the Krishnanagar Court to the District Court of

Murshidabad, her home district. The husband, although is aware of the fact that

the wife made allegations of threat by him when she came to contest the

proceedings before the Krishnanagar court, did not utter anything in her

examination-in-chief denying such allegation nor did he assert that the articles

presented to the wife at the time of marriage were returned to her and that he

never instigated her to commit suicide. The chits of paper marked Exbt.1/2 and

Exbt.1/3 in this suit containing the handwritten notes of the wife indicate that
 those were not letters sent by post but were forced to be written when she was in

her matrimonial home before her departure on May 28, 1993 confessing her

knowledge of existence of tumour in her breast. If a wife is forced to write such

written notes, one within 10 days of marriage and the other, within three months

before she was driven away, such behaviour on the part of the husband cannot

but be described as a "torture" upon a newly married wife staying separated from

her parents in her matrimonial home and in such circumstances, the allegation

of instigation of committing suicide cannot be ruled out particularly when the

husband in spite of knowledge of the contents of the allegations of the wife before

the police regarding instigation to commit suicide has not disputed the same in

his evidence. In this case, the husband in his deposition has not explained how

he got hold of those two chits of paper when the dates appearing on those

documents show that those were written at a point of time when she was in her

matrimonial home. In this case, it appears from Exbt.6 series, the depositions of the parties

in the criminal proceedings under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

which was marked as Exhibit at the instance of the husband that there was

specific allegation of taking dowry of Rs.40,000/- at the time of marriage which

was of course denied by the husband. Thus, there was allegation on the part of

the wife and denial on the part of the husband. The husband, in this case, made

the following statements in his examination-in-chief in this regard: From the aforesaid statement, it will appear that the husband did not

assert that he did not take any amount of dowry but simply stated that the

allegation that he demanded "more dowry" from her father was wrong. If a

husband after taking some amount of money as dowry drives away a wife after

living as husband and wife for more than two months and even after removal of

the tumour from the breast refuses to take her back on the allegation of

suppression of age and educational qualification and stops making payment of

maintenance by compelling the wife to lodge a successful proceeding under Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the allegation of the wife before the

police complaining 1) misbehaviour while she was in her matrimonial home, 2)

demand of dowry and 3) harassment to herself and her parents when they were

required to attend the Krishnanagar Court and seeking protection while they

would be visiting the Krishnanagar Court cannot be said to be unjustified. The

demand of any amount of dowry is punishable under law. In this case, it cannot

be definitely concluded that no amount of dowry was at all given to the husband

at the time of marriage. The father of husband also did not assert that his son

did not take any amount of dowry. Therefore, the learned Trial Judge had no

justification of holding that deliberate false allegations had been levelled against
 the husband as regards the demand of dowry and harassment of the parents of

the wife. The harassment of the wife and her parents at the instance of the

husband has been definitely proved from the materials on record and thus, it is

not a case of granting decree for divorce on the ground of mental cruelty at the

instance of the wife simply because she being frustrated by the torture of the

husband ultimately lodged a complaint before the police alleging harassment. It

is the husband who has inflicted immense amount of mental cruelty upon the

wife and thus, he cannot take advantage of his own wrong by alleging cruelty

with an idea that the wife should not have made any complaint before the police

alleging harassment and demand of dowry but ought to have silently put up with

such humiliation in spite of his definite false allegation in regarding

consummation and his cruel act of driving out the wife without justified ground. We, therefore, find that in this case, the allegations of the wife before the

police have not been proved to be false so as to enable a Court to grant a decree

for divorce on the ground of mental cruelty. We, consequently, find that the learned Trial Judge erred in declaring the

marriage as a nullity although the ingredients of Section 12 of the Act were

absent. Similarly, there is no scope of granting a decree of divorce against the

wife on the alleged ground of mental cruelty. The appeal is, thus, allowed. The judgement and decree passed by the

learned Trial Judge are set aside and the suit filed by the husband is dismissed. In the facts and circumstances, there will be, however, no order as to

costs. (Bhaskar Bhattacharya, J.)

 I agree. (Prasenjit Mandal, J.)