Advocate for : OTOLI KITS
 Advocate for : PP
 ASSAM appearing for THE STATE OF ASSAM
 Page No.# 2/9

 BEFORE
 HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE PRANJAL DAS

 JUDGMENT & ORDER (CAV)

Date : 24.10.2025

 Heard Mr. A. Baruah learned counsel appearing for the
 petitioners. Also heard Mr. G. Chutia learned Additional Public
 Prosecutor appearing for the State respondent and Mr. B. Mahajan,
 learned counsel appearing for the Informant. 2. This is an application, filed under section 482 of the BNSS, 2023,
 for granting pre-arrest bail to the accused petitioners in connection
 with Diphu P.S. Case No. 79/2025, registered under Sections
 61(2)/308(5)/351(3) of BNS, 2023, read with Section 67 (A) of the IT
 Act, 2000. 3. The prosecution case as has been narrated in the bail application
 is that one Rukasen Englang (Informant), lodged an FIR against the
 accused petitioners on 15.09.2025, alleging that in the month of
 August, 2023, his father came to Diphu (their hometown) from
 Guwahati and intimated the family members that he had been honey
 trapped by one Smti Mirdalin Teronpi at their flat in Guwahati. It was
 further intimated to the family members that the aforesaid Smti
 Mirdalin Teronpi had secretly videographed the whole incident in a
 mobile phone and his father is scared that if the video is published or
 made viral by the aforesaid Smti Mirdalin Teronpi, then the image of
 his father shall be tarnished, as he is the MLA of Diphu constituency. It
 was further stated in the complaint that due to the aforesaid
 apprehension, neither the informant nor his father immediately filed
 Page No.# 3/9

any complaint/FIR before the Police. However, later on, the accused
petitioner No. 1, who is an ex-militant involved in many cases of
extortion and unlawful activities got in touch with his father and
intimated his father that the video is under their possession. It was
alleged that the aforesaid accused petitioners demanded Rs. 30 Lakhs
from his father and without any option left, his father paid the
aforesaid money to the accused petitioner No. 1. It was further alleged
that after a threat from aforesaid Smti Mirdalin Teronpi, his father also
paid Rs. 28 Lakhs in three installments to her due to the fear that the
video would be publicized by her. It was alleged that out of fear, his
father had to pay a total amount of Rs. 50 Lakhs to the accused
petitioners and the aforesaid Smti Mirdalin Teronpi. On receipt of the
aforesaid FIR dated 15.09.2025, the Police registered the Diphu P.S.
Case No. 79/2025, under Sections 61(2) /308(5)/351(3) of BNS, 2023,
read with Section 67 (A) of the IT Act, 2000. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the accused petitioners
submits that the accused petitioners were not at all linked with the
instant case. He submits that while the accused petitioner No. 1 is the
Chairman of Karbi Anglong Chamber of Commerce, the accused
petitioner No. 2 is a Village Head and both are respected citizens of
Diphu town. He submits that though some amounts have been
received by the accused petitioner No. 1, the same was paid through
one Mrs. Moon Ingtipi, who is a cousin of the MLA, the father of the
informant, against a loan received earlier. He further submits that the
names of the accused petitioners were unnecessarily dragged into the
instant case due to some enmity between the accused petitioners and
 Page No.# 4/9

the father of the informant. He submits that since a case has been
registered, the accused petitioners are apprehending arrest and
therefore, the instant application has been filed. 5. The learned counsel for the accused petitioners further submits
that the accused petitioner No. 1 is suffering from many diseases,
including a renal failure with his creatinine level at 11mg/dL and he is
constantly consulting the doctors for his renal transplant. He submits
that his next medical checkup is scheduled on 30.09.2025. In view of
the aforesaid, the learned counsel for the accused petitioners submits
that the accused petitioners may be released on interim bail. 6. Per contra, Mr. G. Chutia, learned Additional Public Prosecutor
appearing for the state respondent supporting the bail objection of the
IO contends that the investigation is in progress and the one
conducted so far has seriously implicated the petitioners and therefore
they should not be granted the privilege of pre-arrest bail. It is also
contended that there has been suppression of material facts with
regard to the full antecedents of the petitioner No.1, especially with
regard to his ongoing criminal cases. It is submitted that granting of
bail to the petitioners will risk hampering or tampering evidence and
would adversely affect the investigation. It is submitted that bail
application may be rejected. 7. Mr. B. Mahajan, learned counsel appearing for the informant
submits that the accused petitioner No. 1 has not come before this
court with complete facts and though he has stated in the bail petition
about not having criminal antecedence, but the fact is that several
criminal cases against him are a matter of record. It is submitted that
 Page No.# 5/9

otherwise also the accused petitioners are involved in the alleged
offences and they are not deserving of the benefit of anticipatory bail.
The learned counsel for the Informant opposing the bail seeks
rejection of the same. 8. The case diary as called for has been received and placed before
the court. 9. I have perused the relevant portions of the case diary, which
reveals that though there is reasonably good progress in investigation,
but the same is not yet completed. 10. Mr. A. Baruah, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners, has
referred to a large number of decisions in support of this contention. 11. Mr. B. Mahajan, learned counsel appearing for the informant, has
also referred to numerous judgments. For the purpose of adjudicating
the anticipatory bail, it may not be necessary to load the order with
referred portions of all the decisions and that, a reference to the some
of the broad principles laid down therein, could suffice for the purpose
of the present adjudication. 12. The contention of the IO is that the accused petitioners are
involved in a conspiracy to extort large amounts of money from the
victim who is stated to be a Legislative Assembly member from Karbi
Anglong in the state of Assam. The extortion of large amount of
money running into more than Rs. 50,00,000/- is with regard to
alleged video of a illicit relationship of the informant's father/MLA with
one lady named Mirdalin Teronpi, who is also a co-accused in this
case. The IO has also contended that the petitioner No.1 besides
 Page No.# 6/9

being an ex-militant, also has several criminal cases pending against
him. 13. The learned counsel appearing for the informant drawing the
attention to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Munnesh Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in 2025 SCC
Online SC 1319, has submitted that in paragraph 5 of the bail
petition, the petitioners have stated that they do not have criminal
antecedents. However, it is an admitted position that several criminal
cases, the particulars of which are in the record, were filed against the
petitioners and some of which are still pending. 14. In this context, Mr. A. Baruah, learned counsel appearing for the
petitioner, submits that while some cases were indeed filed against the
petitioner No. 1, but he has been acquitted in several of them. 15. However, I find from the materials available before this court that
in one of the cases, he has been declared an absconder by the
concerned learned trial court. 16. The learned counsel for the informant, also refers to paragraphs
22 and 23 of a recent decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Kaushal Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan reported in
2025 SCC Online SC 1473, where it has been held that while
adjudicating bail petitions, the court has to be appraised of the
criminal antecedents of the petitioner and any other criminal cases
pending against the petitioner. In this decision, the Hon'ble Apex Court
has rather suggested to the High Courts to incorporate a rule to this
effect regarding bail petitions, as was found with regard to the Punjab
 Page No.# 7/9

& Haryana High Court. 17. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners has tried to
contend and submit that there is a money transaction of the petitioner
with one relative of the victim and the case was lodged vindictively
against the petitioners. However, upon perusing the relevant materials,
I find the said linkage to be somehow distant and not very convincing
to the court to arrive at any definite opinion that the allegations are
nothing but a vindictive act. If the materials revealed by the
investigation are accepted on their face value, these prima facie lend
separate to the bail objection submitted by the IO. These also prima
facie reveal that the present petitioners, especially petitioner No.1
herein was the mastermind in using the lady to honey trap the victim
and extort large amounts of money from him. From the materials
collected by the investigation, prima facie, I find elements of
conspiracy, abetment and extortion on the part of the accused
persons, including the present petitioners. In his statement, the
informant has supported the allegations. The victim has stated in
detail about the story and supported the allegations that he was
trapped by that lady and extorted of large amount of money which he
has paid in several installments running into lakhs each. Though, the
lady is a co-accused, at this stage her statement is not completely
irrelevant and in this regard, her statement lend support to the story
projected by the investigation and the informant side. 18. Any illicit relationship of the victim might be a moral issue, unless
it invites some criminal liability on its own accord under laws like Immoral Traffic Act or invites some sexual offences. However, if a
 Page No.# 8/9

person is honey trapped vis-a vis any such illicit relationship and then
demanded of money under threat of blackmail - then the same if true,
would be a criminal act, inviting at least, the offence of extortion. 19. It is also to be noted that anticipatory bail rest on a somewhat
different footing from a regular bail to release a person in custody. An
order of anticipatory bail puts fetters on the investigation as the IO can
no longer custodially examine the accused. Further, such an order of
anticipatory bail also will also mean that the accused has almost full
access to his liberty, subject only to the bail conditions. Therefore,
once a person secures an order of anticipatory bail, he avails all the
benefits like that of the regular bail order. In the instant case, the
investigation is not completed. The lady named Mirdalin Teronpi, who
is co-accused, is already in custody, having been arrested on
25.09.2025. As per the new provision of BNSS, 2023, the time frame
for seeking custodial remand of any of the accused is still open. More
importantly, the necessity of custodial examination for the purpose of
the remaining investigation cannot be ruled out at all and it may not
be prudent or justified at this stage to put any such restrictions on the
investigation. Lastly, in view of the materials indicating the previous
antecedents, granting of pre-arrest bail at this stage, apart from pre-
empting custodial examination, could also be otherwise detrimental to
the investigation. 20. Thus, in the given circumstances and in the backdrop of the
aforesaid discussion - I do not find sufficient merit in this bail
application and the same accordingly, stands rejected at this stage. 21. The bail application accordingly stands disposed of. Page No.# 9/9 22. Return the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant