DATE : 23rd JULY, 2025
 cria-4375.23 2 ORDER [PER SMT. VIBHA KANKANWADI, J.] : sheet i.e. proceedings in R.C.C. No. 118 of 2023, pending

before the learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, (9 th Court),

Aurangabad, arising out of the First Information Report (for short

"the FIR") vide Crime No.5 of 2022, registered with Harsul

Police Station, Aurangabad, on 10th January 2022, for the

offence punishable under Sections 406, 420 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. 2. Heard learned Advocate Mr. Nagargoje for the applicants

and learned APP Mr. Kulkarni for respondent No.1. 3. Learned APP places on record the Daily Status Report from

Ecourts Services, from the Court of 9 th Judicial Magistrate First

Class, Aurangabad where the matter is pending, and submits

that on behalf of the accused, application for discharge has been

filed and still the present application is pressed. Thus, according

to the learned APP, both the applications are for the same

purpose and therefore the objection has been raised. We would

say that the purpose is distinct though the material that is
 cria-4375.23 3 required to be considered is the same. It appears that the

discharge application has been filed on 7 th February 2024 and

the Daily Status Report does not show which accused has filed

said application, but the present Application is pending since

2023. Therefore, the present Application, filed prior in time, can

go ahead. 4. Learned Advocate for the applicants has taken us through

the entire charge-sheet and submits that the FIR has been

lodged by respondent No.2 on the basis of incomplete facts. It is

based on the contract as such and informant has not performed

her part of the contract and had not claimed back her amount

within stipulated time and therefore, it appears that it was not

given by the company. He submits that the informant has stated

that applicant No.1 is known to her since last four years and

applicant No.1 is serving in the company at Mumbai. Applicant

No.1 had given phone call to the informant on 14 th May 2021,

stating that she is doing online business in cost reduction and

digital disruption and therefore, she asked whether the

informant also wants to do the same business. When the

informant asked her about the information regarding that

business, applicant No.1 gave the same. Then for registration
 cria-4375.23 4 and business license, informant gave an amount of

Rs.2,00,000/-, which was the bank transfer. Applicant No.1

accepts the said transaction but it is the say of application No.1

that she has given the entire narration, how the business is to be

carried out and what is exactly required from the informant. The

informant then states that after two days of money transfer,

applicant No.1 had given a link for online meeting and told

informant that she should attend the meeting and get the

training completed. Thereafter, there was 7 days training that

was given by applicant No.2, which was completed by the

informant, wherein informant states that she came to know

about the name of the company as Qnet Vihan Direct Selling

India Private Limited. She also searched online about the said

company, wherein she found that the company is in existence.

Thereafter, informant had asked her two friends, namely,

Shubham and Snehal, to join the business. After some days

applicant No.1 sent the bond for signature and then the

informant and her friends raised suspicion. When they went

through the contents, they realized that they are not going to

get any return but it is a fraud. Informant asked her friends to

get back their amount as it was within 7 days of their payment.

The company, as per the contract, returned the said amount
 cria-4375.23 5 within two months. However, though demanded, the amount

has not been returned to the informant. Then informant says

that since it is a fraud, she lodged the FIR. 5. Learned Advocate for the applicants submitted that the

documents have been collected, which would show that how the

transactions went. Even the informant has taken training and

now she states that it was a fraud. As per the rules of the

company, the amount could have been refunded upon

cancellation, within 7 days from the date of purchase of the

product. The informant has not demanded her money within the

said period. Now, she cannot say that it was a fraud. Further, the

offence under Section 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code will

not go together and therefore, he relies on the decision in Delhi

Race Club (1940) Limited and others vs. State of Uttar Pradesh

and another , (2024) 10 SCC 690, wherein, in Paragraph Nos. 40,

41 and 42, it has been observed thus:- 6. Learned Advocate for the applicants further submitted that

the statements of said Shubham and Snehal, friends of the

informant, have also been recorded, who accepts that they got

their amount back after about two months. Under the said
 cria-4375.23 7 circumstance, it would be unjust to ask the applicants to face the

trial. 7. Per contra, learned APP strongly opposed the Application

and submitted that the entire charge-sheet is before the Court,

which would show that no document was forwarded by applicant

No.1 to the informant prior to the training. Applicant No.1

accepted the amount which was given in faith by the informant

and then she asked the informant to attend the training. Later

on the bond was sent for signature. It would then be revealed in

the trial, as to when exactly the documents were sent i.e. bond

was sent for signature. Major transaction appears to be through

e-mail. Even that Qnet company is said to be e-commerce

company. By asking the informant to part with the amount and

thereafter sending the mail that applicant No.1 is not responsible

and then applicant No.2 gets involved just to show that

something is done towards the business, appears to be an act of

fraud. As evidence is required, this is not a fit case where the

Court should exercise its powers for quashing the proceedings. 8. Certainly, we are bound by the ratio laid down in Delhi

Race Club (1940) Limited and others vs. State of Uttar Pradesh cria-4375.23 8 and another , (supra), however, how that is applicable or whether

it is not applicable, would depend upon the facts in the present

case. The contents of the FIR are already reproduced, therefore,

we do not want to mention the same again. It appears that when

applicant No.1 has given the representation, it was in respect of

online business as she has stated, but then the transaction

appears to be regarding purchase of vacation package product

from the global portal of Qnet company. Since the applicants are

relying on some mail acknowledgement stated to be given by the

informant on 30th May 2021 to applicant No.1's mail, there has to

be a proof. The said evidence can only be proved at the time of

trial. Now, the question is, as per the company rules or business

idea, as to what the informant was supposed to do to earn, is

not coming forward. Copies of some rules have been produced

on record, however, those are not forming part of the charge-

sheet. The fact is supported that the informant had paid an

amount of Rs.2,00,000/- to applicant No.1 and in respect of the

said transaction itself, applicant No.2 appears to have given

training to the informant. Now, the thing is that the amounts of

Shubham and Snehal have been returned by the company but

then it is now stated that since the amount has been claimed by

them within 7 days, the transaction has been cancelled. cria-4375.23 9 However, if we consider the statements of Shubham and Snehal,

then they have also expressed doubts over the transaction of the

company. Therefore, the matter requires proof and evidence.

The rules or terms of contract are not forming part of the

charge-sheet and therefore, we do not find this to be a fit case

where we should exercise our powers under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure. 9. The Criminal Application stands rejected.