7 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Dear Mr.Suresh, Ours is a system driven company with set processes and and strict adherence with contract to ensure all customers are treated without any prejudice. We deal with all our customers professionally and courteously because we value each of them. This is possible only because our processes are uniform for all customers. However sometimes unfortunately our courtesy is mistaken and used as an opportunity to arm twist the company to deviate from the process. As a company we are fair yet firm on our commitments and deliverables to our customers because we believe customers are the only reason for our existence as a business. We always want to support our customers in the best possible way to ensure a happy home buying experience. Unlike other buying experience, in home buying the relationship between the developer and customer is a long standing, as buying a house is an emotional investment of the entire family and we at DRA always respect that. We refute all allegations made by you and reiterate we have done absolutely as per the terms and conditions of the Booking and agreement. We hereby defend our rights and action as all your allegations are baseless We are happy to support our customers for any reasonable requests hence feel free to call us at [protected]. Suresh Rachapalli 1 review 5 days ago NEW Dear Mr. DRA Owner, I have given explanation for hidden charges and sales person issue, ignorance …More 4 Anandaraj D 3 weeks ago NEW DRA Homes (owner) 2 weeks ago Thanks for the rating. Dinesh Kumar Local Guide·11 reviews·4 photos 3 weeks ago NEW DRA Homes (owner) 2 weeks ago Thanks for the rating. svs Local Guide·44 reviews·37 photos a month ago Good One DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thanks for the feedback and rating. Nishanth Govindarajan Local Guide·23 reviews 2 months ago Great properties and investment products. Great work by Sales, CRM, Legal teams👍 1 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thank you for the review & rating BALAJI R.S Local Guide·40 reviews·1 photo 2 months ago The most Good developers in city 1 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thanks for the rating & review jerry alston 3 reviews 2 months ago Process was smooth and everything was done perfectly by the time I needed. Wonderful experience, with great people and I wish it will be wonderful, also we are getting the updates every month genuinely from the team about its construction stage . Glad we choose DRA. 2 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thank you for the review & rating Dhilip Paul 2 reviews 2 months ago Had a very Good customer experience with DRM CRM team. Would recommend others as well. 1 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thank you for the review & rating A P Sathishkumar 3 reviews 2 months ago I am surprised to see this new concept. Happy to be part of this DRA family. 1 DRA Homes (owner) a month ago Thank you for the review & rating Raj Arumugam 4 reviews 2 months ago raj kumar 7 reviews 2 months ago krishna prasaad Local Guide·19 reviews 2 months ago Best in specifications DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the rating:) Karthi keyan 5 reviews 2 months ago From the day one, it’s been a wonderful experience with them. DRA team people are very professional and customer focused, I would like to …More 2 DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the feedback and rating:) Anbazhagan Devarajan 1 review 2 months ago Very nice and professional handling of customers particular my CRM Mr Sriram. 1 DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the feedback and rating:) ShunmugaVelayutham D 6 reviews 2 months ago Thank you DRA for the wonderful support. Thanks to Mr.Jegan (sales exec) who treated me as one of your family member and by suggesting apt flat in navalur and support on referral to my relative. Thanks to Mr.Sriram(crm) for extended support …More 4 DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the feedback and rating:) Manikandan S Local Guide·12 reviews 2 months ago The customer support representative was good and clear in explaining about the project and clarifying all the doubts. The communication was done clearly on monthly basis with the current status of the project. …More 2 DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the feedback and rating:) sampath Kumar Local Guide·323 reviews·785 photos 3 months ago DRA HOMES CONSTRUCTION COMPANY IS MAKING A VERY GOOD 👍 NEATLY Mintained flats. 1 DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the feedback and rating:) Rajeev Kamal Local Guide·76 reviews·7 photos 3 months ago DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the rating:) Srikanth Chakrapani 6 photos 3 months ago DRA Homes (owner) 2 months ago Thanks for the rating:) Madhavan Nandagopal 13 reviews 3 months ago MouthShut.com https://m.mouthshut.com › DRA-Pr... DRA PROJECTS - CHENNAI Reviews, Projects, Address The builder has no skills and working experience and he is probably one of the worst builders that I have come across! They keep changing the mapping and ... 1.8 (11) Facebook https://m.facebook.com › reviews DRA HOMES - Reviews Our home buying experience was very pleasant and professional. We got progress update with pictures monthly. The amount details in the progress were extremely ... 4.2 (25) AmbitionBox https://www.ambitionbox.com › dra... DRA Homes Reviews by 12 Employees DRA Homes is rated 4.1 out of 5, based on 12 reviews by employees on AmbitionBox. DRA Homes is known for Salary & Benefits which is rated at the top and given a ... 4.1 (12) Homz N Space https://www.homznspace.com › dra... DRA Truliv in Navalur, Chennai | Reviews | Group Buy | Price 4 days ago — The residential enclave DRA Truliv features the very best in DRA Homes' premium living segment. The project offers spacious Apartments with ... Video for dra homes reviews 5:51 Total Land Area: ~2 Acres 4.2 (5) · 3896310 Homz N Space https://www.homznspace.com › dra... DRA Truliv Porur in Porur, Chennai | Reviews | Group Buy | Price This company is a scam. They sold the apartment in mahindra city promising rental cashback and they cited COVID as reason and returned all the apartment back to ... Project Location: Porur, near Poonamallee 3.5 (13) · 2501000 indiapl.com https://indiapl.com › tamil-nadu › d... DRA Homes, 480, 1st Floor, Phone +[protected] indiapl.com Poor transparency and customers are always downright told no for even the smallest request. In 3 years the project was open for customer review only once and ... Indian Consumer Complaints Forum https://www.consumercomplaints.in › ... Dra Homes Reviews | File a Complaint Its became like pay money to get problems instead of dream home I am gettjng bad dreams with problems I am facing with DRA. You can refer the picture of excel ... DRA Homes https://drahomes.in › flats-in-chennai Customer Testimonials on completed projects Customer Testimonials on the completed project from DRA homes- Tuxedo Elite, Pristine Pavilion 2, Pristine Pavilion 3 - Luxury Apartments at a very posh ... People also search for Feedback DRA Homes https://www.drahomes.in DRA Homes DRA Flats are of premium class, promoted as gated community at decent locations with great connectivity and excellent infrastructure. Enquire Now. MagicBricks https://www.magicbricks.com › DR... Find New & Upcoming Projects by DRA Homes For over 37 years, DRA has been a prominent real estate player across Bangalore & Chennai. Over the years, through the vision of Managing Director, ... How many DRA Homes completed projects are there? How many DRA Homes ongoing projects are there? Related searches Suresh Reddy 3 reviews a week ago NEW Critical: Professionalism Dear Mr. DRA Owner, Kids give their own statements but matured person, once i strongly believed and trusted DRA blindly, but after facing issues and problems from past one year I started looking at your process and understood how things happening, still three lakhs money not tallying in your cost sheet, I am asking this concern from past 1 year. You please spend time with your teams and try to understand and then give your statements. If i upload the evidence my review is not appearing here, i wish to upload all the evidences for you, if you have access for upload I can send copy for you(DRA owner). I wish to upload audio and cost sheet where you can get clarity, but looks review not allowing to upload audio and copy of excel sheet. I am pretty new to face this kind of issues and in online forum as well. You can sugget where can I upload proofs for you. Regarding your explanation about your process, if you might have really followed your process in my case then i dont have to be in this place as a unhappy customer. This is just for your information. I have attahed in that you can see hidden charges, I have basic sense when I comment on something, I even have audios where i can prove my words. I am posting my personal experience with proper evidence. The same things already communicated many times. Plesse speak to your management. Explanation how DRA hidden charges works: Initially they will say one parking free but they do charge huge money for parking which is against to RERA approvals, I have raised the same with DRA sales department, the sales person who is dealing my flat booking left all of sudden. I dont even know that the sales person left and I waited for his visit for few weeks and nobody cared from DRA. One fine day when I called CRM team they informed he left and all my open discussions still open from past one year. CRM team said iike sales person left and we dont know what was communucated, I even asked to arrange a conference call and close the discussions but they simply rejected. I have not hired sales person for DRA and I have not fired the sales person, As per my knowledge its DRA responsibility to handle their resource and take care of customers without any impact. I should not be the person to take all this pain but still they gave me lot of pain and keep troubling me from past one year, I will articulate all the issues and how they create problems one by one and create awareness with proper evidences. I owned a flat in DRA delite in last Oct 2021. I lost happiness of buying my dream home because of DRA sales team and CRM team. Initially to book the flat sales team offer you hell of things and those will be simply rejected by CRM team after booking the flat and they will start charging you for what sales team offered you. CRM team will confuse you and change the commitments what sales team offered you. CRM/RM team will collect hidden charges where you dont even realize because they do things wantedly to collect money and you cant even escape because you already locked by booking the flat. If you wish to quit they will not pay you single rupee. I have contacted high level management to quit but I got assurance that no issuee going forward but I have faced and facing more problems after that and things never changed they keep on troubling me. Buying home is not a simple thing like buying car to change just like that... I have raised so many requests for explanation and nobody answered Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (0)