1. The petitioner incarcerated in the FIR captioned above, has come up before this
Court under Section 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. As per custody certificate dated 19.02.2024, petitioner has no criminal history. 3. Petitioner's counsel submits that co-accused Parveen Kumar Sharma Bhardwaj,
has already been granted interim bail vide order dated 29.01.2024 passed in CRM-M-
1775-2024. He further prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and is also
voluntarily agreeable to the condition that till the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the petitioner shall keep only one mobile number, which is mentioned in AADHAR
card, and within fifteen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The petitioner contends that the further pre-trial incarceration would
cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. Facts of the case have been taken from the reply dated 16.02.2024, which reads as
follows:- Registrar Punjab Pharmacy Council and PKS Bhardwaj Parveen Kumar
 Sharma Ex-Registrar Punjab Pharmacy Council as per the vigilance inquiry
 no. 04 dated 26.08.2019 conducted by Vigilance Bureau, EOW S.A.S Nagar
 on the basis of complaint made by Swaranjit Singh Convener Para Medical
 and Health Employees Front, Punjab. During enquiry, it has transpired
 that if any student wants to take admission in another Education Board,
 then he/she is required to submit his migration certificate issued by his
 previous Education Board. It is the duty of the Registrar, Punjab State
 Pharmacy Council to verify certificates of the students taking admission in
 courses of Diploma in Pharmacy, B-Pharma, M-Pharma and to register
 them for different works. If any student wants to do Pharmacist course,
 then he has to pass 10+2 class in medical or non-medical stream. There
 are 105 Pharmacy Colleges functioning in the State of Punjab. At the time
 of counseling, all the seats in government colleges used to be filled
 whereas the seats in private colleges remains vacant and as per the
 directions of the government, the private colleges used to fill these seats
 at their own level. In order to fill these seats, private colleges used to get
 10+2 medical/non-medical stream certificates of students from the outer
 states without any examination despite the fact that these courses are
 regular courses, which have to be passed by attending regular classes.
 Thereafter, the Registrar of Punjab Pharmacy Council and other officials
 issued registration numbers to the students without verifying their 10+2
 certificates and in lieu there of, they obtained huge amounts as illegal
 gratification. 3. That On the basis of the said registration numbers, students had
 obtained jobs in different institutions and also run their medical shops.
 During his tenure as Registrar, Punjab Pharmacy Council, Parveen Kumar
 Bhardwaj committed various irregularities and hence, his services were
 terminated, but he was again appointed as Registrar on 24.12.2013. The
 record of 453 Pharmacists has been verified from Medical College
 Amritsar, Medical College Faridkot and Medical College Patiala. There are
 irregularities in the reports submitted by Medical College Amritsar and
 Medical College Faridkot. Not only this, the certificates of 143 students
 were found to be fake, but no appropriate action was taken against these
 students. Dr. Abhininder Singh Thind (now died), Dr. Tejbir Singh and
 Parveen Kumar Bhardwaj have violated the rules of Punjab State
 Pharmacy Council during their respective tenures as they, In connivance
 with Pharmacy Colleges, did not verify the 10+2 certificates of the
 students which were issued by unapproved boards. The Pharmacists who
 obtained licenses on the basis of forged certificates are playing with the
 health of general public. 4. That during Investigation of the case it has transpired that 7652 2 2 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:24:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023455 3 CRM-M-7136-2024 2024:PHHC:023455

 registrations of D-Pharmacy were made during the tenure of Parveen
 Kumar Bhardwaj the then Registrar and registration certificates were also
 issued under his signatures being Registrar Punjab Pharmacy Council and
 as per the initial investigation, it is found so far that number of
 Registration certificates have been issued by him on the basis of Forged
 and fabricated Diploma Certificates as well as 10+2 certificates. Apart
 from the said registrations, more registrations were made by Parveen
 Kumar Bhardwaj on the basis of Diploma Certificates allegedly issued by
 Bihar college of Pharmacy. As per the verification made from Bihar
 College of Pharmacy with regard to the available record of 36
 registrations, it was intimated by Bihar College of Pharmacy vide separate
 letters that no student was either admitted or passed Diploma in
 Pharmacy from this college and the entire documents are forged,
 fabricated and bogus. It was also written in the said letter that Mr. PK
 Bhardwaj Ex-Registrar Punjab State Pharmacy Council was indulged in this
 Malpractice and is the Kingpin of false registration of Pharmasists in the
 nation in association with other forged persons from Bihar and Punjab. 5. That during Investigation 65 Pharmacists have been nominated as
 accused out of which 9 pharmacists have been arrested including the
 Present Petitioner Maninder Singh. During the vigilance enquiry no. 04
 dated 26.08.2019 conducted by Vigilance Bureau, EOW S.A.S Nagar. The
 Present Petitioner Maninder Singh and other co-accused recorded their
 Statements and admitted they got the 10+2 certificates and D-Pharmacy
 diploma in illegal and fraudulent manner by bribing various persons at the
 relevant time. Hence, they have been nominated as an accused in this
 case. According to the statement of the Present Petitioner Maninder
 Singh passed Matriculation from CBSE Board during 2006, He prepared
 10+2 Certificate with Medical subject of M.P. Board fraudulently with the
 connivance of owner of Lala Lajpat Rai College of Pharmacy Moga (Co-
 accused) in 2009. During Investigation above said M.P. Board was found
 illegal in the report of Council of Boards of School Education (COBSE).
 After this Lala Lajpat Rai college of Pharmacy Moga admitted this
 Petitioner as Pharmacy Student and helped him to passed Pharmacy
 Diploma in 2011. Thereafter, the Present Petitioner Maninder Singh
 registered himself with the Punjab State Pharmacy of Council as
 registered Pharmacist. 6. That during Investigation the owners/principals of various colleges
 have been nominated as accused in this case due to the issuance of
 forged and fabricated Diploma Certificates as well as 10 + 2 cerificates
 allegedly issued by different school education boards. During the course
 of Investigation accused Rama Kaudi concerned Principal of Punjab
 Multipurpose medical Institute Sehna, accused Baljinder Singh Bajwa
 concerned principal of Lala Lajpat Rai college of Pharmacy Moga, accused
 Dr. Gurpreet Singh Gill owner and accused Sarbjit Singh Brar the
 concerned Principal of Aadesh Institute of Medical Science and Research
 Bathinda have been arrested in this case. 7. That the plea taken by the present petitioner regarding his false
 implication in the present case or registration of false case against him is
 wrong and the same is denied because the present case has been
 registered after detailed enquiry and the Present Petitioner has played an
 active role in the entire crime right from the beginning. This is case of big
 scam being run by the accused persons in connivance of one another and
 it is yet to be exposed in its entirety, therefore the present Petitioner is
 not entitled to the concession of bail." 5. Counsel for the State opposes the bail. 6. As per paragraph 7 of the bail petition, the petitioner is in custody since
12.12.2023. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with
the primafacie analysis of the nature of allegations, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no justifiability for further pre-trial incarceration at this stage,
subject to the compliance of terms and conditions mentioned in this order. 7. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds,
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed
 investigation and the charge sheet is already filed before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation. We are of
 the view that the appellants are entitled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 8. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive
conditions. 9. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 10. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponential growth in technology and artificial
 intelligence has transformed identification techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recognition are incredibly
 sophisticated and pervasive. Impersonation, as we know it
 traditionally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an officer believes that the
 accused might be a flight risk or has a history of fleeing from
 justice, then in such cases, appropriate conditions can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolution has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponential and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only fitting that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alternative options. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 11. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automatic renewal
 of the principal and the interest reverting to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said fixed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be 5 5 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:24:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023455 6 CRM-M-7136-2024 2024:PHHC:023455

 permissible for the petitioner to prepare an account payee demand draft
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds until the case's closure or
 discharged by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declarations made in
 the bail petition and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the
 following personal identification details: paid mobile phone number, till the conclusion of the trial; however, this restriction is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connections or landline 6 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:24:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023455 7 CRM-M-7136-2024 2024:PHHC:023455

numbers. The petitioner must comply with this condition within fifteen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deactivate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the petitioner,
except the one that is mentioned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that till the no objection from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
petitioner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the directions of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the petitioner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such information from the
petitioner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally entitled
by this order. This condition shall continue till the completion of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while granting bail under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2002 , Supreme
Court had directed imposition of the similar condition, which reads as follows, "(d) Both
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the time they remain on
bail and shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA, their respective mobile
numbers." 15. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as stipulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancellation of
this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it to the notice of
the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was earlier cautioned
not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and after that in Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of conditions. 16. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the offence and to provide a sense of security
to the victim. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail conditions imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While 7 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:24:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023455 8 CRM-M-7136-2024 2024:PHHC:023455

doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation of rights and liberties must be
eschewed." 17. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 18. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 19. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 20. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 21. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.