We missed this earlier: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has introduced an exclusive domain for Indian banks, ‘bank.in’, Governor of the central bank, Sanjay Malhotra, has announced , as per a press release dated February 7, 2025. This is to help citizens differentiate between legitimate websites of banks as opposed to the rising number of fraudulent ones. Additionally, a ‘fin.in’ domain will be introduced for the financial sector.

“This initiative aims to reduce cyber security threats and malicious activities like phishing; and, streamline secure financial services, thereby enhancing trust in digital banking and payment services,” stated Malhotra. The release further informed that The Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) will act as the exclusive registrar and detailed guidelines for banks will be issued separately. The registrations will start from April 2025.

This step comes after several reports of a growing number of financial frauds online. According to a report released by RBI in December 2024, the number of bank fraud cases reported between April and September of 2024 increased by 28% compared to 2023, while the amount involved rose by eightfold to a whopping Rs 21,367 crore, Business Standard reported .

Additionally, new kinds of scams and fruads are also cropping up more often. The menace of digital arrest has especially been on the rise. The government recently informed the parliament that the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) has blocked over 1,700 Skype IDs and 59,000 WhatsApp accounts used for digital arrests.

Last month, RBI also directed banks to specifically use the ‘1600xx’ numbering series for transactional calls to customers to allow them to differentiate between spam/malicious and legitimate calls by the bank.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event