1. Petitioner is before this Court seeking for quashing of

 the proceedings in Crime No.634/2020 registered by

 the respondent - South CEN Police against the

 petitioner for the offence under Section 66 of the

 Information Technology Act, 2008 and Sections 406 , 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code pending on

 the file of the 1st Addl. CMM Court Bangalore. 2. The complaint came to be filed on 10.07.2020 by the

 2nd respondent alleging that while the petitioner was

 in the employment of the 2nd respondent, the Crl.P.No.5343 of 2020 3 petitioner along with one Komala Anjan, before they

 left the services of the respondent stolen the CRM

 data base, software designs, business plans and data

 of the Company etc., and thereafter joined another

 rival Company, misused the data by circulating the

 data of respondent Nos.2 to 3rd parties. On these

 basis and on several other allegations, the

 complainant has sought for action to be taken

 against the petitioner. 3. Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for the

 petitioner would contend that there was no

 appointment letter issued in respect of the petitioner.

 The petitioner was only engaged as employee of

 respondent No.2. It is only after the petitioner joined

 the services of another rival Company that the

 aforesaid allegations have been made, nearly after

 two months after her leaving the services of

 respondent No.2 - Company. 4 4. He further submits that the petitioner has been

 charged with the offences both under the Information

 Technology Act and as also under the Indian penal Code, the Information Technology Act being a special

 enactment would over rule the IPC and as such he

 submits that the proceedings in entirety have to be

 quashed, if not, offences under the IPC are to be

 quashed. 5. Sri K. Abhinav Anand, learned counsel for

 respondent No.2 would submit that the data of

 respondent No.2 has been stolen by the petitioner

 and Ms Komala Anjan, the matter requires

 investigation. This Court at this stage cannot

 adjudicate whether there is a theft of any data and

 when it is occurred. Therefore, he submits that the

 petition ought to be dismissed. 6. Heard Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for

 the petitioner and Sri K. Abhinav Anand, learned

 counsel for respondent No.2. 5 7. A perusal of the complaint indicate that the

 allegations made are as regards the theft of the CRM

 data base, software designs and business plan data.

 Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for the

 petitioner has contended that there is no

 appointment letter and there is no requirement to the

 petitioner to maintain any confidentiality and as such

 if any data is taken by the petitioner there is no

 breach of offence which could be said to have been

 committed. 8. I am unable to accept such a submission. Any

 employee who has been hired by any employer is

 required to maintain confidentiality, which is the very

 foundation of the engagement of the employee by the

 employer. Thus there need not be any specific clause

 relating thereof. It is only because a person is

 employee of an employer, would an employer make

 known its confidential data to such an employee. By

 its very nature the information being confidential Crl.P.No.5343 of 2020 6 merely because there was no appointment letter or

 agreement to maintain confidentiality would not be a

 ground to contend that there is no violation as

 regards the same even if the employee were to provide

 such challans to a third party. 9. This aspect also would not be a reason to exercise

 power under Section 482 of Code of Criminal

 Procedure the allegations in the complaint is that

 after the petitioner left services of respondent No.2,

 respondent No.2 came to know of the earlier theft

 made by the petitioner. When the data was being

 used by the current employer of the petitioner to

 target the business leads of respondent No.2, such

 being the case whether these facts are true or not

 would have to be found during the course of trial.

 This Court cannot give any findings as regards

 whether there is any theft of data or whether the data

 has been made use of by competitor or whether there

 is any loss caused to respondent No.2. In view

 thereof, reserving liberty of defences of petitioner to Crl.P.No.5343 of 2020 7 be urged during the course of trial, the petition is

 dismissed. 10. In view of dismissal of the above petition, the prayer

 sought in I.A. No.3/2020 does not survive for

 consideration, hence, I.A. No.3/2020 also stands

 dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

SBS*