SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Rant] Hate working for start-ups and doing shady work for them.
DATE: 2015-10-20
SCORE: 99
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3pgxul/rant_hate_working_for_startups_and_doing_shady/

--- POST TEXT ---

I work as a freelance writer and the things that I have done (written) are eating me from inside. I have written numerous fake reviews - restaurants that are miles from where I live, products that I haven't seen, etc. We were asked to look at the pictures, read descriptions and write reviews. I would at least take extra effort and look at other reviews and base my own on their experience. Other writers don't even bother to look at more than one picture and write whatever comes to their minds. The reviews are completely fake and often extremely misleading.

At one point I worked for a travel website where we were given a travel destination to write a description of, attractions around it, opening times, closing times, bus number and their schedules, two restaurants each of fancy, regular and cheap varieties, same for hotels. One day - one destination. It is fine with a small destination like Ajanta. But if anyone got a big city, like say Delhi, Paris or New York, they would get at the most 2 days. Covering all the attractions and include all the information is a near-impossible task for a single writer in two days. So, what would we do? We would include whatever information we got our hands on - usually from the first site that showed up, without verifying it and make up the rest. I have seen contradictory information on different sites, but when pointed out, we were told to 'just write whatever you feel is right'. 

What bites me most, is the last assignment I did - I was told it was for a student of a very prestigious university in the US, he/she had to complete a project and the write-up was a part of it. The person had jotted down all the points and I just had to rewrite it in a proper manner. As I started reading it, I realized that there were two write-ups in the 'points' I had been given. I had to mix them up and write them in a way the examiner would think a third person had written it. I was behind in my other works, so I completed it and gave it to the CEO of the start-up I was working for.

However, it is now haunting me. I have helped someone cheat for a degree/certificate which people spend an enormous amount of money, effort and time. Many of my friends, relatives and acquaintances have appeared for similar examinations and I have seen up-close the kind of preparation that goes into it. I feel like I have nullified all their hard-work. I feel miserable and shitty.