1. Relief Sought

 The jurisdiction of this Court under Section 439 Cr.P.C. has been

 invoked seeking the concession of regular bail for the petitioner in FIR No.37

 dated 15.05.2023, under Sections 420 , 120-B IPC, registered at Police Station

 Sadar Malaut, District Sri Muktsar Sahib. 2. Prosecution story set up in the present case as per the version in

 the FIR read as under :- Afterwards, Manpreet Kaur spoke with us by dialing Subhash Singh's
 Mob. No. 78370- 73920 through call conference and I have its recording
 with me. Afterwards, Manpreet Kaur said that Satwinder Singh has
 grabbed Rs. 4,00,000/- and recover Rs. 4,00,000/- from him. I made
 phone calls to Satwinder Singh continuously for four-five days and on dt.
 14.02.2022 he deposited Rs. 4,00,000/- in my account. Afterwards,
 Manpreet Kaur said through call conference that Satwinder Singh is not
 happy with this marriage and my maternal uncle (mama) is Army Officer
 at Ambala whose mobile number is 81462-13691. Then call came from
 his phone and he said that Satwinder Singh is my nephew, all of us are
 together and we shall perform wedding ceremony with huge pomp and
 show, you need not worry. Army Officer made call at my phone and said
 that Manpreet Kaur has to do shopping and she need Rs. 70,000/-
 (Rupees Seventy Thousand Only). His son Yadwinder Singh Mob. No.
 88475-36164 collected Rs. 70,000/- from me and I have its recording
 with me, which I shall produce when required. Army Officer made phone
 calls to me for three-four days. Army Officer said to me that now date of
 marriage has been fixed, Satwinder Singh had deposited Rs. 4,00,000/-
 in your account and you pay that amount of Rs. 4,00,000/- to us in cash.
 I said to him that your son has collected Rs. 70,000/- and you collect
 cheque(s) of Rs. 3,00,000/- from me. He said that time is very short, you SANGEETA 2024.09.11 19:05 withdraw and give cash as we have to book marriage palace at Moga. Then he fixed the date of marriage on dt. 05.03.2022 and Army Officer's
 son Yadwinder Singh and his mother visited our house with shahi-chithi
 and collected Rs. 3,00,000/- cash from me. I have this recording also
 with me. That I have with me the call recordings of all conversations
 held with them. Next day we made phone calls to them but neither Army
 Officer nor his son Yadwinder Singh answered our phone calls and they
 put our phone numbers in blacklist. Then we said to mediators that they
 are not answering our phone calls. When Pammi mediator (vicholan)
 Mob. No. 79865-90629 made phone calls to above mentioned persons
 even then they did not answer the phone calls. I have very good record in
 village. As I have only one son I did not go out of house and am meritally
 upset and I stay home as I am not well and it has become difficult for me
 to go out of house and my relatives shall give taunts to me. I am also
 facing financial crunch. Requested that enquiry of my complaint be
 marked to any senior officer and my reputation/dignity be kept in mind
 and necessary legal action be taken against Manpreet Kaur, Satwinder
 Singh, Yadwinder Singh and Army Officer as said by Manpreet Kaur.
 Complainant: Sd/- Gurnam Singh son of Pritam Singh resident of
 Village Aulakh, Tehsil Malout, District Shri Muktsar Sahib, Mob. No.
 80542-75030, 73077-76168." xxxxx
 Subhash son of Baaj Singh resident of Village Chak Banwala, District
 Fazilka gave statement that, "Gurnam Singh son of Pritam Singh
 resident of Village Aulakh has given one complaint against Manpreet
 Kaur, Satwinder Singh, Yadwinder Singh and Army Officer in respect to
 committing fraud of Rs. 7,50,000/- (Rupees Seven Lac Fifty Thousand
 Only) with him. I and Dharampal Singh son of Surjit Singh resident of
 Goniana, District Bathinda used to do work of mediating in matrimonial
 matches. Above mentioned Gurnam Singh had contacted us to find
 suitable matrimonial match for his son Kulwinder Singh and hence we
 had introduced Gurnam Singh with Ritu Bhatia and her brother Pammi.
 Ritu Bhatia and Pammi further introduced Gurnam Singh etc. with
 Manpreet Kaur and her brother Satwinder Singh. Manpreet Kaur's
 brother Satwinder Singh said to Gurnam Singh etc. that Manpreet Kaur SANGEETA 2024.09.11 19:05 is resident of Canada, therefore you have to pay Rs. 15,00,000/- to I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-37426-2024 4 Manpreet Kaur and him for marriage. Gurnam Singh etc. agreed to pay
 Rs. 15,00,000/- to Manpreet Kaur, Satwinder Singh, Ritu Bhatia and
 Pammi. Gurnam Singh etc. paid Rs. 70,000/- to son of maternal uncle
 (mama) of Manpreet Kaur. Thereafter, Gurnam Singh etc. paid Rs.
 7,00,000/- to Satwinder Singh, Manpreet Kaur, Ritu Bhatia and Pammi.
 Out of this amount, Rs. 2,00,000/- was paid to me and Dharampal Singh
 for working as mediators. After receiving money Manpreet Kaur stopped
 answering Gurnam Singh's and our phone calls. Many times we tried to
 contact Manpreet Kaur, Satwinder Singh, Pammi, Ritu Bhatia but they
 neither answered our phone calls nor agreed to our requests. Later on
 we came to know that the real name of Manpreet Kaur is Rinki wife of
 Rajan Kumar resident of Mahil Gehla, District Shaheed Bhagat Singh
 Nagar. I and Dharampal Singh are ready to return Rs. 2,00,000/- to
 Gurnam Singh which was paid by him. We shall pay this amount to
 Gurnam Singh within two months. Now we have come to know that
 Manpreet Kaur @ Rinki, Satwinder Singh, Pammi and Ritu Bhatia are
 habitual of committing fraud with people on the pretext of marriage.
 Manpreet Kaur Rinki, Satwinder Singh, Pammi, Ritu Bhatia and
 maternal uncle of Manpreet Kaur @ Rinki who call himself Army Officer
 in connivance with each other have committed fraud with Gurnam
 Singh." Dharampal Singh son of Surjit Singh resident of Goniana,
 District Bathinda gave statement that, "I knew Subhash Singh son of
 Baaj Singh resident of Kehar Singh Dian Dhanian, who do work of
 mediating in matrimonial matches. He said to me that he has offered
 matrimonial match of Manpreet Kaur @ Tanvir Kaur resident of
 Phagwara, who is P.R. of Canada, to Kulwinder Singh son of Gurnam
 Singh son of Pritam Singh resident of Aulakh and he asked me to help
 him in this matrimonial match. Therefore, I along with Subhash Singh
 had met Gurnam Singh once-twice. At the instance of Subhash Singh, I
 alongwith Subhash Singh had attended programme at the time of shagun
 of Kulwinder Singh and Manpreet Kaur at both venues at Ludhiana and
 Phagwara. Now I have come to know that some dispute has arisen
 between Gurmeet Singh etc. and girl's side. I do not know anything
 about this dispute. I had attended programme at the time of shagun at SANGEETA 2024.09.11 19:05 the instance of Subhash Singh only. I also do not know whether girl's I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-37426-2024 5 family members have received money from Gurnam Singh or not and
 they have monetary dealings with Subhash Singh only. I do not know
 anything about their monetary dealings. I had attended programmes of
 shagun with Subhash Singh due to friendly relations with Sarwan Singh.
 xxxxx
 Conclusion Report: 12. From enquiry conducted by me till date,
 statements of both parties, presented documents, photos, video and
 CDR/CAF of mobile numbers it is found that Ritu Bhatia wife of Sunil
 Kumar, Satwinder Singh son of Ajit Singh resident of Pakka Darwaja,
 Goraya, District Jalandhar, Rinki @ Manpreet Kaur wife of Rajan
 Kumar resident of Village Mahil Gehla, Nidhi wife of Avinash Kumar
 resident of Goraya, Prabhjit Singh son of Inderjit Singh resident of
 Urban Estate, Phagwara and Parminder Singh @ Pammi resident of
 Boparai have formed a gang and they extort money from innocent people
 on the pretext of marriage and then commit fraud. Complainant Gurnam
 Singh had spoken with Satwinder Singh son of Jaswinder Singh resident
 of Bhagatpura, District Kapurthala through Subhash son of Baaj Singh
 resident of Village Chak Banwala, District Fazilka and Dharampal
 Singh son of Surjit Singh resident of Goniana, District Bathinda about
 his son Kulwinder Singh's matrimonial match. Satwinder Singh etc. lied
 to complainant that Rinki @ Manpreet Kaur is P.R. of Canada and
 demanded money for fixing this matrimonial match. Whereupon,
 respondent party Ritu Bhatia etc. performed engagement of Rinki @
 Manpreet Kaur with complainant's son Kulwinder Singh, whereas,
 Rinki@ Manpreet Kaur was already married with Rajan Kumar son of
 Harmesh Lal resident of Mahil Gehla on dt. 12.10.2013 and she has 02
 children also. Despite this, Rinki played drama of doing engagement
 with complainant Gurnam Singh's son and Ritu Bhatia wife of Sunil
 Kumar, Satwinder Singh son of Ajit Singh resident of Pakka Darwaja,
 Goraya, District Jalandhar, Nidhi wife of Avinash Kumar resident of
 Goraya in connivance with each other took complainant Gurnam Singh
 and his family into their confidence. Photos of engagement ceremony are
 attached herewith. Satwinder Singh received Rs. 7,50,000/- from
 complainant Gurnam Singh by taking him in confidence and in respect to SANGEETA 2024.09.11 19:05 this he also tendered his notary attested affidavit. Afterwards, differences I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-37426-2024 6 developed between Satwinder Singh and Ritu Bhatia, Rinki @ Manpreet
 Kaur etc and out of Rs. 7,50,000/ Satwinder Singh returned Rs.
 4,00,000/- to Gurnam Singh. Thereafter, Rinki Manpreet Kaur asked
 Gurnam Singh to make phone call at Mob. No. 81462-13691. (This Mob.
 No. 81462-13691 is being used on the name of Prabhjit Singh son of
 Inderjit Singh resident of Urban Estate, Phagwara). Whereupon,
 Prabhjit Singh Mob. No. 81462-13691 firstly received Rs. 70,000/- and
 second time Rs. 3,00,000/- (total Rs. 3,70,000/-) from complainant
 Gurnam Singh on the pretext of his son's marriage. Prabhjit Singh son of
 Inderjit Singh resident of Urban Estate, Phagwara and Parminder Singh
 @ Pammi resident of Boparai have also received money from
 complainant Gurnam Singh on the pretext of his son's marriage.
 Mediators Subhash and Dharampal have also received Rs. 1,80,000/-
 from complainant Gurnam Singh in lieu of fixing his son's matrimonial
 match and they also have not returned complainant's money till date.
 After receiving money, respondents stopped answering phone calls of
 complainant nor did they perform his son Kulwinder Singh's marriage.
 Afterwards, complainant's son Kulwinder Singh died on dt. 08.05.2022.
 Notice were issued to respondent party to join enquiry of this complaint,
 but respondents Ritu Bhatia, Nidhi, Satwinder Singh, Prabhjit Singh and
 Parminder Singh @ Pammi did not come at this office nor they have
 submitted any reply/ defence statement. Respondents Ritu Bhatia etc. in
 connivance with each other have indeed committed fraud with
 complainant Gurnam Singh on the pretext of solemnizing his son
 Kulwinder Singh's marriage with P.R. girl of Canada. Therefore, action
 should be taken against them. From enquiry conducted till date
 respondents Ritu Bhatia wife of Sunil Kumar, Satwinder Singh son of
 Ajit Singh resident of Pakka Darwaja, Goraya, District Jalandhar, Rinki
 @ Manpreet Kaur @ Tanvir Kaur wife of Rajan Kumar resident of
 Mahil Gehla, (Nawanshahr), Nidhi wife of Avinash Kumar resident of
 Goraya, Prabhjit Singh son of Inderjit Singh resident of Urban Estate,
 Phagwara, Parminder Singh @ Pammi resident of Boparai, Subhash son
 of Baaj Singh resident of Village Chak Banwala, District Fazilka and
 Dharampal Singh son of Surjit Singh resident of Goniana, District SANGEETA 2024.09.11 19:05 Bathinda are found to have committed fraud with complainant Gurnam I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-37426-2024 7 Singh on the pretext of his son's marriage. Order may be issued to SHO
 PS Sadar Malout to register FIR against them under sections 420 , 120-B IPC, if approved. Report cubmitted please. Sd/- Balkar Singh PPS
 Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sub-Divn. Malout Date 21.04.2023.' 3. Contentions

 On behalf of the petitioner

 Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that the petitioner

 has been falsely implicated in the present case. He contends that version as

 narrated in the FIR is concocted and the petitioner has no concern with the

 alleged offence. He further contends that the fact of the previous marriage of

 the petitioner and her having two children out of the said wedlock was already

 in the knowledge of the complainant and his family. Learned counsel for the

 petitioner submits that one co-accused namely Dharampal Singh has also been

 granted the concession of regular bail by the Coordinate Bench of this Court

 vide order dated 18.08.2023 passed in CRM-M-39611-2023 (Annexure P-3). He further submits that no other case is pending against the present petitioner

 meaning thereby she is not a habitual offender. On behalf of the State

 On the other hand, learned State Counsel appearing on advance

 notice, accepts notice on behalf of respondent-State and has filed the custody

 certificate of the petitioner, which is taken on record. According to which, the

 petitioner is behind bars for almost 05 months 09 days. Learned State Counsel on instructions from the Investigating

 Officer opposes the prayer for grant of regular bail but is not in a position to SANGEETA controvert the submissions made by counsel for the petitioner. He informs the 2024.09.11 19:05 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-37426-2024 8 Court that in the present FIR, challan stands presented on 20.05.2024 but the

 charges are yet to be framed. 4. Analysis

 From the above case it can be culled out that investigation is

 complete and no fruitful purpose would be served by detaining the petitioner

 behind the bars any further keeping in view the peculiar facts and

 circumstances of the case and as per the principle of the criminal jurisprudence,

 no one should be considered guilty, till the guilt is proved beyond reasonable

 doubt, whereby in the instant case, challan stands presented on 20.05.2024 and

 charges are yet to be framed also out of 20 prosecution witnesses, none has

 been examined yet which is sufficient for this Court to infer that the conclusion

 of trial is likely to take considerable time and detaining the petitioner behind

 the bars for an indefinite period would solve no purpose. Reliance can be placed upon the judgment of the Apex Court

 rendered in " Dataram versus State of Uttar Pradesh and another ", 2018(2)

 R.C.R. (Criminal) 131, wherein it has been held that the grant of bail is a

 general rule and putting persons in jail or in prison or in correction home is an

 exception. Relevant paras of the said judgment is reproduced as under:- Therefore, to elucidate further, this Court is conscious of the

 basic and fundamental principle of law that right to speedy trial is a part of

 reasonable, fair and just procedure enshrined under Article 21 of the

 Constitution of India. This constitutional right cannot be denied to the accused

 as is the mandate of the Apex court in "Hussainara Khatoon and ors (IV) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar, Patna", (1980) 1 SCC 98. Besides this,

 reference can be drawn upon that the pre-conviction period of the under-trials

 should be as short as possible keeping in view the nature of accusation and the

 severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting

 evidence, reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witness or

 apprehension of threat to the complainant. 5. Decision: