SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: It's foolish to think any of the popular news channel is non-biased. The selective hate on Republic is making many of us here blind
DATE: 2020-10-08
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/j7iiav/its_foolish_to_think_any_of_the_popular_news/

--- POST TEXT ---

Every popular news channel has set of agents sitting behind calculating for the high TRP rate. You could simply notice how channels quickly change the News as per the current trend.

All other channels slowly hopped in Rhea's drama once they realised Republic is gaining traction &amp; high TRP. 

Republic straight away started harassing and bullying Rhea since they had comfort knowing how well the channel is running and they clearly have the govt backing. Soon I realised every other news channel started doing the same but with careful game. Some news channel even followed Rhea's car giving reports meaning they all badly wanted to hop in masala that's republic is tasting.

Today when Republic was caught manipulating TRP every other channel took the advantage of it and started boasting how ethical their own channel is when clearly every single top news channel manipulates TRP carefully. It's just Republic is on another level in this game. Later when the news came that the actual name was India Today and not republic suddenly no one's raising voice on how easily was it to spread fake news. 

We unitedly want to end manipulative news regime but when the wrong thing happens to the news channel we don't like we turn our eyes blind. 

Rahul Kanwal of India Today tweeted English news ratings which was complri wrong according to BARC which is easily visbile on their website. Both week 38 &amp; 39 clearly shows he is spreading fake news or unless he has different source for the data claimed which he hasn't shared.

Ps: I absolutely hate republic they are clearly mastermind in covering selective topics for Pro-BJP but it doesn't mean we blindly support the opposite agenda. We are no different than bhakts if we are this easy to be manipulated.

TLDR: Every single top news channel has PR agency sitting behind to manipulate TRP as much as possible. Some are of high rate and the others are of their own capacity. All the news channel claiming pure and true once Republic TRP was exposed today is just another lie that no one shoulf eaisly fall to