SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I believe I got scammed via Airtel Thanks app in the most bizarre way possible. What do I even do now?
DATE: 2022-03-18
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/tgt76o/i_believe_i_got_scammed_via_airtel_thanks_app_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Update :- Got my parents to visit local enquiry store, the customer care guy started assuming that I have an affair with the wrong num guy and told my dad that. After lots of pleading via call, I got the guy to file a complaint. This is an issue because the other Dude's num is so random. All 10 digits are different from my mom's. So there's no way I could've typed the wrong num by myself.

Characters involved: My dumb self, My Mom, a Sus Dude. 

Mom wanted me to recharge for internet for her mobile num yesterday night. She surfed through the offers that were available in the Thanks app and chose the ₹839 recharge (comes with 2 GB) at around 11pm. 

I swear I checked it. TWICE. It had mom's number when I chose the pack. 

Cue I enter the OTP (paid via my debit card), and at the final step, it shows some Sus Dude's num got recharged with ₹839. Then in recent recharges, the app shows that I recharged for Sus Dude.

I'm shook. I've never seen this guy my whole life. Mom's never seen him her whole life. I stalked Sus Dude in Truecaller and he looks HELLA SUS.

According to Truecaller and Airtel Thanks app, Sus Dude lives in MP/Chattisgarh. There's no freaking way I chose his num because 1. Idk him, 2. the list of numbers in Thanks app is only mine, mom's, dad's and the broadband.

As much as I want to believe that Sus Dude is part of this scam, I have no proof against him. 'Airtel Thanks app did a mistake' is the only possible conclusion.

With this, I'm trying to reach out to the customer care num that was in the app, but till now, it redirects me to nowhere. No living human is taking my calls. I then raised some complaint in the app but it's not letting me type the issue's description. I've just said that recharge is not reflecting and put the transaction ID.

As much I want to ping Sus Dude and ask him for money, for him I'll be the Sus Dude who accidentally recharged for him and is asking for payback. He might think I'm part of some bank scam (if at all he's genuine).

What do I even do now?