1. This appeal is directed against the judgment and decree of the learned single Judge dated 23-1-1998 in O.P. No. 3008 of 1996 of this Court, by which the appellant's application for a decree of nullity of marriage was dismissed. 2. The appellant and the respondent are Christians and their marriage was solemnised as per the religious customs and ceremonies on 9-2-1994 at St. Thomas Church, Retnagiri, Pattithanam. Thereafter, they lived together till 10-3-1994. 3. The petitioner is a staff nurse employed in Doha under the Ministry of Quater from March, 1992 onwards. The petitioner would allege that the respondent and his people made her and her people to believe that he has passed Pre-degree Examination and two years Diploma Course in Air Conditioning and is employed as Air Condition Mechanic in the Government Service in Behrin on a monthly salary of Rs. 30,000/-, with free boarding and lodging and annual leave of two months with free passage to go home. As Beharin is of only 30 minutes journey by air from Doha where she has been working and as he is working as Air Conditioning Mechanic, the petitioner, and her people preferred him and they never suspected any fraud. The petitioner also states that she was made to believe that he has to go back to his place of employment on 22-2-1994 as he has come on leave for two months from 17-12-1993. The marriage was therefore arranged and solemnised hurriedly on 9-2-1994. The respondent did not return to Behrain on 22-2-1994. He has revealed to her that he has no diploma in Air Conditioning and he has not even passed Pre-degree course and his service at Beharin as a Salesman was terminated and hence he is in search of another job. According to her, she would never have consented to the marriage if she had known about his educational qualifications. Therefore, she prays for a decree of nullity of marriage on the ground that her consent was obtained by fraud. 4. The respondent denied all the averments regarding the fraud alleged in the petition. He states that after completing his schooling he left for Beharin on 4-6-1989, worked there in a Super Market as Sales-man and returned on 11-9-1993. Therefore, he applied for fresh visa and was awaiting for a new employment abroad. He states that he had informed the broker that he was working in the Super Market on a monthly salary of Rs. 9,000/- and that his visa was cancelled and he is trying for getting another visa within two months. After knowing all these, the petitioner and others decided to proceed with the proposal and accordingly the marriage was solemnised. According to him, the relationship between the petitioner and the respondent was cordial till she lift for Doha on 10-3-1994. He would also contend that his new visa was delayed because of the outbreak of plague epidemic in India. He had to wait for 10 months and at last he got a job on 25-1-1994 and this suit is laid at the instance of her father. 5. The learned single Judge held that the petitioner has not succeeded in adducing satisfactory evidence to establish that the respondent and his people played deliberate fraud upon the petitioner and her relations. 6. Aggrieved by the said decree dismissing

the O.P., this Appeal has been filed by the petitioner. 7. In order to establish fraud, the petitioner examined PWs 1 to 3. The petitioner as PW 1 has deposed to the averments in the petition, She states that the proposal for the marriage was brought by a broker and the broker told her parents that the respondent had passed Pre-degree and Diploma in Air Conditioning in A/C Mechanism and that he is employed in Behrain as A/C Mechanic drawing a salary of Rs. 30,000/- in addition to free accommodation, free air ticket etc., and that he had come on leave and has to go back on 22-2-1994. She also states that when the respondent came for bride seeing he had told her about his educational qualifications and job. She states that she preferred this proposal for the reasons that the respondent was employed under the Ministry of Health in gulf country and it is easy to get a transfer to Doha. Believing the statements of the respondent about his educational qualifications and job at Beharin she had consented to the marriage. At the time of the marriage, her elder sister's marriage was not solemnised. The request of the father to postpone the marriage for a week was turned down as he said that he had only a few days more to leave the country. On the 20th of Feb. when she asked about his leaving for Beharin he said that everything has been cleared. So her mother prepared some pickles for him to carry. On the same night, he told her that he had arranged for extension of leave through one of the Professors of the Medical College, Calicut. When the extended period was over, he was again asked about his return journey, when he had told her that he had cheated her and that he has no employment in Beharin as his service there was terminated. So she wanted to procure a new job for him, for which she wanted his passport and certificates. Then she was told that the certificate and passport were entrusted to travel agency in Bombay arid that he has no copy of the same even. After the expiry of her leave, she left for Doha on 10-3-1994: She has requested him to send the certificates. But he did not send the same. Her father was therefore asked to get the certificates from him. Accordingly, her father went to the respondent's house, when his father told him that the respondent was only a tailor at Muttuchira. The petitioner has categorically stated that she would not have consented to the marriage if she had known about the fact that he was not qualified, as declared. The above statements of PWs. 1 to 3 were not challenged in cross-examination. There is not even a suggestion that the said statements are false. Therefore, we have to believe her statements. 8. The father of the appellant was examined as PW-2. PW-3 is the elder sister of the petitioner. Both of them have deposed that even though they were not satisfied about the house and surroundings of the respondent, at the instance of PW-1, the proposal was considered and accepted. Why PW-1 has preferred him has been deposed by her. The statement of PWs. 1 to 3 regarding the suppression of his educational qualifications are not challenged in cross-examination. Those statements are thus stand unchallenged. We carefully went through the evidence of PWs. 1 to 3, which go to show that if the petitioner was aware of his educational qualifications and that he had no job at the time of marriage proposal, she would not have given her consent to marry the respondent. She prays for a declaration that the marriage between her and the respondent is void under Section 18 of the Indian Divorce Act. 9. Section 18 of the Indian Divorce Act provides, that : The grounds for a decree of nullity are provided in Section 19 of the Act. Section 19 of the Act reads : Nothing in this section shall affect the jurisdiction of the High Court to make decree of nullity of marriage on the ground that the consent of either party was obtained by force or fraud". 10. The main question to be looked into is what is fraud in matrimonial cases. The word 'fraud' is not defined in the Indian Divorce Act . Hence liberal construction has to be given, as is held in Reynold Rajamani v. Union of India , (1982) 2 SCC 474 : (AIR 1982 SC 1261). It reads: The marriage was not annulled, as there was dispensation from prohibited degrees granted by the Bishop as per Canon Law. In Yumuna Bai Anantrao Adhav v. Ananthrao Shivram Adhav, (1988) 1 SCC 530 : (AIR 1988 SC 644) the Apex Court held that for determination of the validity of a Hindu Marriage and to establish the marital status, the personal law is to be relied upon. In Leelamma v. Dilipkumar (1992) I Ker LT 651 : AIR 1993 Kerala 57, a single Bench of this Court held, that in the absence of statutory law. Canon Law governs the members of the Syrian Catholic community. Thus the Courts in India have in clear terms laid down that the validity or otherwise of a marriage between Catholics would have to be decided by referring to the provisions of Canon Law in the absence of statutory law. Hence, it may safely be concluded that validity of the marriage, where the parties are Roman Catholic (Syrian Christians must be determined by resort to the provisions of their personal law. This is more so as solemnisation of Christian Marriages is done according to personal law in Travancore-Cochin areas of the State of Kerala and there is no Marriage Act in force in these matters. Therefore, the validity or otherwise of the marriage in question must be determined in accordance with the personal law applicable to the parties. In this case, the Eparchial Tribunal granted a decree of nullity of marriage and hence it is submitted that the same should be given due weight in granting a decree of nullity of marriage. 11. The next question to be looked into is, to what extent Canon Law can be looked into and applied and whether the decree of nullity of marriage granted by Eparchial Tribunal in this case can be accepted and acted upon and who should adjudicate the validity or otherwise of a marriage between Catholic Syrian Christians. In Kurien v. Alphonsa, 1986 Ker LT 731, Jose v. Alice, (1988) 2 Ker LT 890 : (1989 Cri LJ 1527), George Sebastian v. Molly Joseph, (1994) 2 Ker LT 387: ( AIR 1995 Kerala 16), Molly Joseph v. George Sebastian , AIR 1997 SC 109 : 1997 (1) Ker LT 1, the Court held, that it is well settled that the marriage between a Christian husband and wife can be dissolved or annulled only by a decree of a civil Court. In George Sebastian v. Molly Joseph , (1994) 2 Ker LT 387 : (AIR 1995 Kerala 16) a Bench of this Court observed as follows (Para 18 of AIR): Therefore, the decree of nullity of marriage granted by Eparchial Tribunal is of no avail for the appellant to claim a decree of nullity of marriage from this Court. The petitioner has to establish her case under the Indian Divorce Act , independent of the decision of the Epharchial Tribunal. To find out what is fraud in matrimonial matters both civil law and personal law will have to be looked into. As regards civil law, the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 stands extended to Travancore-Cochin areas of the present State of Kerala, with effect from 1 -4-1951. 12. A Full Bench of the Court in Smt. Best Morning Khongthroherm v. Nirmalender Deb . (1987) 2 DMC 214. : (AIR 1987 Gauhati 63),

dealt with a case of a decree of nullity. The Court considered fraud committed by the husband. The wife filed a petition for a decree of nullity of marriage on the ground that her consent was obtained by fraud and the husband had concealed the fact that he had undergone vasectomy and married the petitioner. The husband was a widower. According to the petitioner, he was impotent at the time of marriage as he had undergone vasectomy and hence the consent was obtained by fraud. In that case, the respondent did not contest. Hence the petition for decree of nullity was granted. 13. Let us examine what is fraud in Canon Law/Can. 820 provides as follows : Can 821 provides as follows : Canon Law presumes that all persons have the required knowledge of the nature and purpose of marriage after they attain puberty and if a ground or ignorance can be proved the marriage can be annulled. Under Canon Law 820, error is a ground to annul the marriage. Error is a false judgment about something or someone and as such it is a defect of the intellect. Since one object is mistaken for another, there is no confirmity between the intellect or intention and the object of the action. The learned counsel for the appellant Mr. Lekha Suresh brought to our notice the book Law of Marriage and Matrimonial Relief for Christians in India, by William E. Pinto, who is a Judge of the Church Tribunal. Page 93 of his book reads: Can. 1097 states : A marriage contracted out of deceit or fraud is invalid according to Can. 1098. The root of deceit can be in error although every error does not have its origin in deceit. Error can exist on us own, deceit cannot exist unless it produces its effect of error upon the victim. The marital community depends on the honesty of the spouses'. Honesty about one's identity and total personality is essential for community of life. If there is deceit about an essential or significant quality, there is no true joining of wills, rather one party manipulates the will of the other and as a result the marriage fails. For deceit or fraud to be an invalidating factor, four necessary elements should be proved: 14. Here, in this case, PW-1 has given evidence that if she was aware of the qualification of the respondent that he has not passed Pre-degree and A/C Mechanism Diploma and that he had worked only for some time in Beharin as a Salesman she would not have given her consent for the marriage as she wanted a man having a decent job in gulf. From her evidence, it is also clear that even if he has no job in gulf she can secure a job for him if he is an A.C. Mechanic as stated by him. She has even stated that a proposal by an Engineer was turned down because she wanted a gulf employee. The evidence of PWs 2 and 3 go to show that even though they were not satisfied about the house and surroundings of the respondent, at the instance of the petitioner they wanted to solemnise the marriage as she wanted a qualified A.C. Mechanic, who can also work in gulf countries. PW-1 has deposed that before marriage, she had a talk with the respondent who had spoken to his qualification as an A.C. Mechanic. Thus the respondent had concealed his qualification and misrepresented to her that he has a job at Behrin and that he has to rejoin soon as he is on a short leave. On a close scrutiny of the evidence adduced in the case, it can be seen that the petitioner has proved that she was very particular about the quality of the person, which was concealed from her and thus obtained her consent for the marriage by exercising fraud. Therefore, the marriage is liable to be declared as null and void. 15. Dr. Sebastian Champapally, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent, submitted that under Section 7 of the Indian Divorce Act, this Court has to act upon the principles of English Divorce Courts. But the Supreme Court in Reynold Rajamani v. Union of India , (1982) 2 SCC 474: (AIR 1982 SC 1261), held as follows (Para 13 of AIR): Therefore, Indian Courts need not act on the
principles of English Divorce Courts. 16. The learned counsel for the respondent
submitted that under Canon 853 a consummated
marriage cannot be dissolved, as under Canon
824 internal consent of mind is presumed to be
under agreement with the words of signs employed in the ceremony. On a reading of the said
Canon, what we feel is that once the marriage is
consummated it cannot be dissolved. Those principles relate to dissolution of marriage and not a
declaration for a nullity of marriage. Therefore,
Canons 853 and 824 have no application to the
facts of this case. On a close scrutiny of the
evidence and the questions of law on the point,
we feel that this appeal has to be allowed, as the
consent of the appellant for the marriage with the
respondent was obtained by fraud. In the result, the appeal is allowed, setting aside the decree and judgment appealed against and the marriage between the appellant an the respondent, which was solemnised on 9-2-1994 at St. Thomas Church, Ratnagiri, Pattithanam, is declared as null and void. No costs.