The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has ordered the blocking of 392 mobile handsets and the re-verification of 31,740 mobile connections linked to these mobile handsets in response to reports of electricity know your customer (KYC) verification update scams. Further, the authority mentioned that people have been reporting receiving messages from fraudsters using SMS & WhatsApp messages related to electricity KYC updates. These messages come with malicious APK (android package kit) files meant to gain control over the victim’s device.

The KYC update scams were reported on the “Chakshu” facility of the Sanchar Sarthi portal rolled out by the Ministry of Communications in March this year . This service allows people to report spam calls and messages they receive directly on the portal. The associated numbers then undergo re-verification based on user reports of spam calls and messages and are disconnected if they fail this process.

Recently, the DoT has put out multiple press releases announcing the action taken based on the requests received on the Chakshu portal. It also blocked over 1000 Skype IDs of fraudsters impersonating law enforcement agencies or government officials in May this year. Separately, DoT also blocked 8 commercial entities that sent out over 10,000 scam messages over the previous three months (February, March, and April).

During MediaNama’s event on user verification last year, Deepstrat co-founder Anand Venkatnarayan explained how systematic fraudsters procure and forge identities through which they procure SIM cards. Further, these cards are used to create several bank accounts. He said that the scammer only needs about 2-3 IDs per year to procure SIM cards and create bank accounts to carry out their activities. SIM cards created using forged IDs are only used a specific number of times. “They need 10 SIM cards for scamming a hundred victims,” Venkatanarayan explained.

He gave the example of a scam being run by two people in Delhi who were using verified IDs to buy SIM cards and open bank accounts. The scammers had even managed to fake the DSC verification process of many service providers by doing e-KYC as per the norms.

Venkatanarayan’s explanation, combined with the DoT’s recent blocking orders for mobiles and re-verification of associated SIM cards, raises questions about the effectiveness of KYC verification in India. Given how easy it appears to procure forged IDs and then use them to procure SIM cards and bank accounts, one has to question whether blocking orders even address the larger scam problem. Even after certain devices/SIM cards are re-verified, the bad actors could just move on to using more forged IDs and continuing their activities all over again.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event