The Finance Ministry has notified 22 non-banking entities providing financial services with permission to use Aadhaar for customer verification, according to a report by the Indian Express . The 22 entities include Amazon Pay (India) Pvt Ltd, Aditya Birla Housing Finance Ltd, Tata Motors Finance Solution, IIFL Finance and Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd.

According to reports, these organisations are already reporting entities, defined as any banking, financial institution, intermediary or a person carrying out a designated business or profession under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The move comes soon after the IT Ministry proposed amendments to the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, 2020, allowing non-governmental entities to carry out Aadhaar authentication.

On Section 11A of the PMLA:

Under the PMLA, reporting entities are required to submit reports on cash transactions, counterfeit currency, non-profit organisations, suspicious transactions etc. The Ministry has allowed the 22 entities to verify clients by performing Aadhaar authentication under the Aadhaar Act for purposes outlined under section 11A of the PMLA , which allows for reporting entities (that are banking companies) to use Aadhaar for establishing the identity of clients under clause (a).

Section 11A also provisions the Indian government to permit non-banking reporting entities to perform authentication under clause (a), provided they satisfy requirements under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016), and that the UIDAI must be consulted before any notification is issued regarding this.

But, Section 11A specifies that if Aadhaar is being used for verification, entities must also allow clients the choice to opt for an offline verification using Aadhaar or use passport or any other official document as an identity proof. Further, the choice to submit Aadhaar must be voluntary, and entities cannot deny services on account of non-submission of Aadhaar.

Interestingly, according to a circular dated May 9, 2019, the Finance ministry laid out a procedure for processing applications by non-banking entities requesting for carrying out Aadhaar authentication for clients under Section 11A. Are the latest amendments then merely an attempt to justify what was already in process? Further, there’s no clarity over what kind of government services are these entities providing and was the UIDAI consulted before notifying the entities.

Why it matters:

The move to widen the scope of Aadhaar authentication, incentivises the use of Aadhaar for purposes, which remain vague in all official notifications and may not necessarily qualify as government services or benefits. It will only expose more individuals and entities to a number of cyber-fraud related risks posed by the Aadhaar authentication system, which has proved to be faulty and unreliable in the past.  While the government is stating different rules and provisions for going ahead with the privatisation of Aadhaar, it’s uncertain how much of it is backed by law. Most importantly, given that the Supreme Court has already directed against the use of Aadhaar by private entities, it is unclear in what capacity is the government going ahead with such actions.

Is the move legal?

The government’s move goes against the Supreme Court’s verdict in 2018, which disallowed private entities from the using Aadhaar for verification purposes. The apex court struck down Section 57 of the Aadhaar Act, which allowed “…government entities, body corporates and individuals to use the Aadhaar number for establishing the identity of an individual for any purpose, pursuant to any law or contract”.

Expert Prasanna S, who has closely followed the Aadhaar case, has pointed out in a MediaNama piece that the judgment infers that neither can private companies use Aadhaar authentication nor can they become requesting entities to use Aadhaar authentication services “under any circumstance”. Further, any use of Aadhaar authentication has to be backed by a legislative action and must only be used in cases where a service, subsidy or benefit from the government is to be provided as per Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act.

The IT Ministry has issued the latest draft amendments using the powers under Section 53 of the Aadhaar Act, 2016, which states that, “The Central government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act”. Considering the Supreme Court’s judgment, the legality of this move can still be questioned.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event