1. The pe oner incarcerated from 12.12.2023 in the FIR cap oned above, has come
up before this Court under Sec on 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. In paragraph 14 of the bail pe on, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. Pe oner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent condi ons and is also
voluntarily agreeable to the condi on that ll the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the pe oner shall keep only one mobile number, which is men oned in AADHAR
card, and within ﬁCeen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The pe oner contends that the further pre-trial incarcera on would
cause an irreversible injus ce to the pe oner and family. 4. The State opposes bail. Status report dated 05.03.2024 ﬁled by State counsel
today in the Court is taken on record. Copy thereof has been supplied to counsel for the
pe oner. 5. Prosecu on case is being extracted from status report dated 05.03.2024 which
reads as follows:- Annexure P-1) has been registered against Ashok Kumar
 Accountant (now Superintendent), Dr. Tejbir Singh Ex- Registrar
 Punjab Pharmacy Council and PKS Bhardwaj Parveen Kumar
 Sharma Ex-Registrar Punjab Pharmacy Council as per the vigilance
 inquiry no. 04 dated 26.08.2019 conducted by Vigilance Bureau,
 EOW S.A.S Nagar on the basis of complaint made by Swaranjit
 Singh Convener Para Medical and Health Employees Front, Punjab.
 During enquiry, it has transpired that if any student wants to take
 admission in another Educa on Board, then he/she is required to
 submit his migra on cer ﬁcate Issued by his previous Educa on
 Board. It is the duty of the Registrar, Punjab State Pharmacy
 Council to verify cer ﬁcates of the students taking admission in
 courses of Diploma in Pharmacy, B-Pharma, M-Pharma and to
 register them for diﬀerent works. If any student wants to do
 Pharmacist course, then he has to pass 10+2 class in medical or
 non-medical stream. There are 105 Pharmacy Colleges func oning
 in the State of Punjab. At the me of counseling, all the seats in
 government colleges used to be ﬁlled whereas the seats in private
 colleges remains vacant and as per the direc ons of the
 government, the private colleges used to ﬁll these seats at their
 own level. In order to ﬁll these seats, private colleges used to get
 10+2 medical/non-medical stream cer ﬁcates of students from the
 outer states without any examina on despite the fact that these
 courses are regular courses, which have to be passed by aCending
 regular classes. ThereaDer, the Registrar of Punjab Pharmacy
 Council and other oﬃcials issued registra on numbers to the
 students without verifying their 10+2 cer ﬁcates and in lieu there
 of, they obtained huge amounts as illegal gra ﬁca on." 5. That during Inves ga on 65 Pharmacists have been nominated
 as accused out of which 9 pharmacists have been arrested. The
 Present Pe oner Puneet Sharma has been arrested on
 12.12.2023. During the vigilance enquiry no. 04 dated 26.08.2019
 conducted by Vigilance Bureau, EOW S.A.S Nagar. The Present
 Pe oner Puneet Sharma and other co-accused recorded their
 Statements and admiCed they got the 10 + 2 cer ﬁcates and D-
 Pharmacy diploma in illegal and fraudulent manner by bribing
 various persons at the relevant me. Hence, they have been
 nominated as an accused in this case. According to the statement
 of the Present Pe oner Puneet Sharma passed Matricula on
 from PSEB Board during 2006, he obtained 10 + 2 Cer ﬁcate with
 Medical subjects from Board of Higher Secondary Educa on, Delhi
 fraudently with the connivance of owner of Lord Krishna College of
 Pharmacy, Lehra Gaga, Sangrur (Co-accused) in 2009. ADer this
 Lord Krishna College of Pharmacy, Lehra Gaga, Sangrur admiCed
 this Pe oner as Pharmacy Student and helped him to clear
 Pharmacy Diploma in 2012. ThereaDer, the Present Pe oner
 Puneet Sharma registered himself with the Punjab State Pharmacy
 Council as registered Pharmacist in 2013. During Inves ga on
 above said Delhi Board was found illegal in the report of Council of
 Boards of School Educa on (COBSE). Apart from this, no other 2 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:38:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032117

CRM-M-10077-2024 2024:PHHC:032117

 case has been registered against the Present Pe oner. 6. That during Inves ga on the owners/principals of various
 colleges have been nominated as accused in this case due to the
 issuance of forged and fabricated Diploma Cer ﬁcates as well as
 10+2 cer ﬁcates allegedly issued by diﬀerent school educa on
 boards. During the course of Inves ga on accused Rama Kaudi
 concerned Principal of Punjab Mul purpose Medical Ins tute
 Sehna, accused Baljinder Singh Bajwa concerned principal of Lala
 Lajpat Rai college of Pharmacy Moga, accused Dr. Gurpreet Singh
 Gill owner and accused Sarbjit Singh Brar the concerned Principal
 of Aadesh Ins tute of Medical Science and have been arrested in
 this case. 7. That the plea taken by the present pe oner regarding his false
 implica on in the present case or registra on of false case against
 him is wrong and the same is denied because the present case has
 been registered aDer detailed enquiry and the Present Pe oner
 has played an ac ve role in the en re crime right from the
 beginning. This is case of big scam being run by the accused
 persons in connivance of one another and it is yet to be exposed in
 its en rety, therefore the present Pe oner is not en tled to the
 concession of Bail. 8. That it is submiCed that in this case the present pe oner is
 released on bail, he can abscond to avoid the trial or can inﬂuence
 the prosecu on witnesses by threat and bribe, therefore the
 present pe on is liable to be dismissed." 6. As per paragraph 6 of the bail pe on, the pe oner is in custody since
12.12.2023. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with
the primafacie analysis of the nature of allega ons, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no jus ﬁability for further pre-trial incarcera on at this stage,
subject to the compliance of terms and condi ons men oned in this order. 7. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Inves ga on, (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds,
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic oﬀences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the oﬀences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same me, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the inves ga ng agency has already completed
 inves ga on and the charge sheet is already ﬁled before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further inves ga on. We are of
 the view that the appellants are en tled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent condi ons in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 8. The possibility of the accused inﬂuencing the inves ga on, tampering with
evidence, in mida ng witnesses, and the likelihood of ﬂeeing jus ce, can be taken care 3 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:38:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032117

CRM-M-10077-2024 2024:PHHC:032117

of by imposing elabora ve and stringent condi ons. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Cons tu onal Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restric ve
condi ons. 9. Without commen ng on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons men oned above, the pe oner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and condi ons, which shall be over and above and
irrespec ve of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 10. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponen al growth in technology and ar ﬁcial
 intelligence has transformed iden ﬁca on techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recogni on are incredibly
 sophis cated and pervasive. Impersona on, as we know it
 tradi onally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an oﬃcer believes that the
 accused might be a ﬂight risk or has a history of ﬂeeing from
 jus ce, then in such cases, appropriate condi ons can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolu on has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponen al and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only ﬁMng that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alterna ve op ons. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 11. Given above, provided the pe oner is not required in any other case, the
pe oner shall be released on bail in the FIR cap oned above, in the following terms: Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automa c renewal 4 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:38:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032117

CRM-M-10077-2024 2024:PHHC:032117

 of the principal and the interest rever ng to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said ﬁxed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the pe oner to prepare an account payee demand draC
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds un l the case's closure or
 discharged by subs tu on, or up to the expiry of the period men oned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the en re amount of ﬁxed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The pe oner is to also execute a bond for aRendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presenta on of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declara ons made in
 the bail pe on and all other s pula ons, terms, and condi ons of
 sec on 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the pe oner shall men on the
 following personal iden ﬁca on details: 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:38:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032117

CRM-M-10077-2024 2024:PHHC:032117

pe oner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the vic m/complainant may ﬁle any such applica on for the
cancella on of bail, and the State shall ﬁle the said applica on. 14. The pe oner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, ll the conclusion of the trial; however, this restric on is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connec ons or landline
numbers. The pe oner must comply with this condi on within ﬁCeen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deac vate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the pe oner,
except the one that is men oned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that ll the no objec on from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
pe oner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the direc ons of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the pe oner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such informa on from the
pe oner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally en tled
by this order. This condi on shall con nue ll the comple on of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while gran ng bail under Unlawful Ac vi es (Preven on) Act, 2002, Supreme
Court had directed imposi on of the similar condi on, which reads as follows, "(d) Both
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the me they remain on
bail and shall inform the Inves ga ng Oﬃcer of the NIA, their respec ve mobile
numbers." 15. During the trial's pendency, if the pe oner repeats or commits any oﬀence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condi on as s pulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancella on of
this bail. It shall further be open for any inves ga ng agency to bring it to the no ce of
the Court seized of the subsequent applica on that the accused was earlier cau oned
not to indulge in criminal ac vi es. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and aCer that in Sec on 437-A of the Cr.P.C ., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of condi ons. 16. The condi ons men oned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the oﬀence and to provide a sense of security
to the vic m. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Pe on (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail condi ons imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be propor onal to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
condi ons must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While
doing so, condi ons that would result in the depriva on of rights and liber es must be
eschewed." 17. Any Advocate for the pe oner and the Oﬃcer in whose presence the pe oner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all condi ons of this bail order in any
language that the pe oner understands. 18. If the pe oner ﬁnds bail condi on(s) as viola ng fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing diﬃculty due to any situa on, then for modiﬁca on of such term(s),
the pe oner may ﬁle a reasoned applica on before this Court, and aCer taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condi on. 19. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 20. In return for the protec on from incarcera on, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 21. There would be no need for a cer ﬁed copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Pe oner can download this order along with case status from the
oﬃcial web page of this Court and aCest it to be a true copy. In case the aCes ng oﬃcer
wants to verify the authen city, such an oﬃcer can also verify its authen city and may
download and use the downloaded copy for aCes ng bonds. Pe//on allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applica ons, if any, stand disposed.