“The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) is investigating several cases related to crypto frauds wherein a few crypto exchanges have also been found involved in money laundering,” read the response by the Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chowdhary in Lok Sabha— the lower house of the Indian Parliament.

He further informed that the actions taken by the ED has resulted in a seizure of Rs. 907.48 crore as per provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), adding that three people have been arrested and four prosecution complaints have been filed before the special PMLA court.

These statements came as a response to questions asked by the following Lok Sabha MPs—

Why it matters: The response is noteworthy as it provides a good look at the kind of regulatory actions taken by the Indian government against the crypto industry. It reassures investors that the government is keeping a tight leash on the criminal elements in the crypto industry and ensuring compliance with the law.

What else was revealed: The response also stated that WazirX (Zanmai Labs) has been issued a show cause notice under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA), for transactions involving crypto assets worth Rs. 2,790.74 crore.

Banning crypto assets: The Indian government said that crypto assets remains unregulated in India and that it does not register crypto exchanges.

Crypto bill with the Finance Ministry: An international collaboration would seek to evaluate risks and benefits of crypto in addition to evolving “common taxonomy and standards.” Chowdhary also informed that the crypto bill is with the Ministry of Finance, in response to a question asked by Lok Sabha MP Bhartruhari Mahtab on the timeline for a crypto bill.

ED’s investigations: The agency froze as many as 150 bitcoins lying in wallets listed on the Binance crypto exchange following a search operation, according to a press release put out by the agency on November 11th, 2022. These bitcoins were worth nearly Rs 23 crore and were part of an investigation into a mobile gaming application— E-nuggets.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event