SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Never fall for Jio AirFiber scam
DATE: 2024-09-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ffsjh1/never_fall_for_jio_airfiber_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

As I mentioned 'scam' in title, its not about somebody scamming in name of reliance jio, it's that the Jio Fiber thing itself is a big scam.

Lemme share my personal experience here.

I live in Najafgarh, Delhi. Few days ago I saw an ad about Jio AirFiber. They promised high speed internet with accurate BW. I called the agent. He came to my home for the KYC. bro told us that the engineers will reach here in 3 hours or within a day. yup, it took 2 days. when we complaint the engineer said you are lucky because most of the times the service takes 1-2 weeks. still we kept our cool. After installation the internet was not reaching to the perfect range and not working well with an extender.

after that when the guy was setting up the jio set top box, it wasn't connecting to the internet. we tried everything for an hour but nothing happened. after that this guy called whatever jio center and told the problem. He said its an issue with the set top box, it will be fixed automatically after 24 hour. I wasn't convinced. I asked him who takes the responsibility if this thing still won't work. he said he will come back on a single phone call to fix it.

The box wasn't working on day 2. I called him once he said he will come in the evening and fix it. I came back home during night and got to know no one came to fix it. I called him again that night and another agent too. he did not pick my call. next morning my father called him too. he didn't pick any call for 2 days. we got frustated from this bs. we removed the router and setup. Now calling customer care they said that the connection can be removed but they won't guarantee any refund. it took 2500 rupees to arrange the whole thing.

It's our hard earned money. I want to know what actions we can take against these clowns. and I request everyone to stay away from these scammers.