These three Bail Applications have been filed for

grant of regular bail in connection with the Case Crime No.01

of 2020, registered at police station Vigilance Sector,

Dehradun, District Dehradun. 2. Applicants are in judicial custody under Sections

409 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 120-B of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 and Section 13(1) (d) read with Section 13(2) of

the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 3. These three Bail Applications have arisen from one

Case Crime No. i.e. Case Crime No. 01 of 2020, therefore,

these three Bail Applications are being considered and decided

by this common order. Record of the Bail Application No. 159

of 2023 will be leading file. 4. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and

perused the materials placed on record. 5. Mr. Lalit Sharma, Advocate appearing for the State,

submitted that the case of the prosecution is that an inquiry

was conducted under the Chairmanship of Additional Chief

Secretary, Government of Uttarakhand, regarding OMR sheets 3 manipulation scam, committed in the examination of Village

Panchayat Development Officer, conducted by the Uttarakhand

Subordinate Service Selection Commission (in short,

"Commission"). The said examination was conducted on

06.03.2016 at 236 centers in all 13 districts of the State. The

process of scanning took place between 21.03.2016 to

26.03.2016, and the result was declared on 30.03.2016.

During inquiry, it was found that the OMR sheets manipulation

scam was committed in the said examination. Therefore, State

Government had referred the matter to the Vigilance

Department for inquiry on 23.07.2019. The Vigilance

Department had conducted an inquiry. The OMR sheets of 90

successful candidates were sent to the Forensic Science

Laboratory, Lucknow for examination. The fact of manipulation

in 54 OMR sheets out of those 90 OMR sheets was confirmed

by the Forensic Science Laboratory, Lucknow. Apart from this,

the Forensic Science Laboratory also confirmed that front

pages of three OMR sheets were torn. The Vigilance

Department had conducted the inquiry. The Vigilance

Department vide its report dated 20.11.2019 recommended

for investigation. Upon the recommendation of the Vigilance

Department, the State Government vide its letter dated

31.12.2019 directed for registration of the First Information

Report. The First Information Report was lodged at Vigilance

Sector, Dehradun on 08.01.2020 and later on 08.08.2022, the

investigation was handed over to the Special Task Force, 4 Dehradun. Statements under Section 161 and Section 164 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 were recorded. Upon

conclusion of the investigation, charge-sheet has been filed. 6. Mr. Arvind Vashisth, learned Senior Advocate

appearing for the applicant-Manohar Singh Kanyal, has argued

that the applicant was the Secretary of the Commission. On

09.01.2016, it was decided by the then Chairman of the

Commission (applicant-Raghubir Singh Rawat) along with the

other members of the Commission including Examination

Controller (applicant-Rajender Singh Pokhriya) that a

confidential place is required for scanning of OMR sheets.

Therefore, it would be appropriate to rent the house of the

applicant's wife for scanning the OMR sheets. After the

completion of the said examination on 06.03.2016, on

14.03.2016 and 19.03.2016, orders were issued by the

present applicant to the Contractor-RMS Techno Solutions

India Pvt. Ltd. at Lucknow. The said letters had the directions

as to how to proceed for the scanning of the OMR sheets and

the entire process to be adopted. 7. Mr. Arvind Vashisth, learned Senior Advocate,

further argued that one Diwan Singh Bhainsora was the

member of the Commission. His daughter-in-law had appeared

in the said examination, but could not succeed and therefore,

he had lodged various kinds of complaints to cancel the said

examination. On 05.05.2016 i.e. before the examination was 5 cancelled, Examination Controller wrote a letter to the

Chairman of the Commission pointing out that the relatives of

the Hon'ble Minister of the Commission were candidates in the

examination but could not succeed, therefore, the Hon'ble

Minister and one Under Secretary are lodging false complaints

at various levels and are mounting pressure upon him. 8. Mr. Arvind Vashisth, learned Senior Advocate,

contended that for the peaceful conduct of examination, it is

the Examination Controller, who has the main role and the

Secretary has only administrative powers. Applicant has been

falsely implicated in the present matter. He has not received

single penny from any third person involved in the said

examination. 9. Mr. Abhijay Negi, Advocate appearing for the

applicant-Raghubir Singh Rawat, contended that the applicant

was the Chairman of the Commission. The result was declared

on 30.03.2016. After that, various complaints were received

by the Commission. Applicant had apprised the State

Government and sent all the documents for inquiry. Applicant

wrote a letter to the Contractor-RMS Techno Solutions India

Pvt. Ltd. on 19.03.2016 that the Examination Controller will be

present during the scanning process. No objectionable material

has been recovered from the possession of the applicant. The

charge-sheet against the applicant has been filed only on the

basis of the statements recorded under Section 164 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 of two employees of the 6 Contractor-RMS Techno Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. The applicant,

aged about 70 years, has been falsely implicated in this

matter. 10. Mr. Karan Anand, Advocate appearing for the

applicant-Rajender Singh Pokhariya, contended that the

applicant was the Examination Controller. His role was only to

conduct the examination. The Examination Controller has no

role to check the question papers in the form of OMR sheets.

On 07.05.2016, a report was sent to the State Government

that no illegality was found in conducting the examination.

Apart from the statement of Abhishek Mittal (an employee of

Contractor-RMS Techno Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.), recorded

during the investigation, the prosecution has not a single

evidence against the applicant. Nothing has been recovered

from his possession. The Secretary of the Commission was the

responsible to collect the answer sheets from the Examination

Controller. Manohar Singh Kanyal, the then Secretary, had

made a note under his signature granting approval to use his

wife's house to check the OMR sheets which proves that he

(Secretary) had some illegal motive and intention. 11. Per contra, Mr. Lalit Sharma, Advocate appearing for

the State, contended that during the investigation, evidence

was found that the OMR sheets were manipulated in the house

of the wife of the applicant, Manohar Singh Kanyal, the then

Secretary of the Commission. On 14.03.2016, applicant-

Manohar Singh Kanyal wrote a letter to the Contractor-RMS 7 Techno Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. that at the time of opening

and closing of seal either Examination Controller or Chairman

himself would be present. During the investigation, it has been

revealed that at the time of scanning of the OMR sheets, all

three applicants were present and the scanning process was

carried out under their supervision. The investigation also

revealed that money was collected from some candidates

appearing in the examination. 12. Mr. C.K. Sharma, Advocate with Mr. Sharang Dhulia,

Advocate appearing for Commission, submitted that the secret

files and other documents pertaining to the said examination

are not available in the office of the Commission. 13. It has been argued on behalf of the applicants that

charge-sheet has already been filed and all three applicants

have been in judicial custody for more than one year, and, it is

well settled principle that "Bail is the rule and committal to jail

is an exception". 14. In Virupakshappa Gouda and Another vs. State

of Karnataka and Another , 2017(2) CCSC 876 (SC), it has

been observed that filing of the charge-sheet establishes that

after due investigation, the investigating agency, having found

materials, has placed the charge-sheet for trial of the accused

person. 15. It is also well settled principle that each criminal

case presents its own peculiar factual scenario. Therefore, a 8 bail application cannot be allowed solely or exclusively on the

ground that the fundamental principle of criminal

jurisprudence is that the "Bail is the rule and committal to jail

is an exception". 16. The principle expounded above has to be applied

appositely to the facts of each case. 17. At the stage of considering the bail application, a

detailed examination of evidence and elaborate documentation

of the merits of the case has not to be undertaken. 18. While considering a bail application, the Court has to

keep in mind, (i) Whether there is any prime facie or reasonable

 ground to believe that the accused had committed the

 offence; (ii) Nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) Severity of the punishment in the event of the

 conviction; (iv) Character, behavior, means, position and standing

 of the accused; (v) Danger of the accused absconding or fleeing, if

 released on bail; (vi) Likelihood of the offence being repeated; (vii) Reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being

 influenced; (viii) The larger interests of the public/State; (ix) Danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by

 grant of bail and other similar considerations. 19. The liberty of an individual is not absolute. The

emphasis on individual liberty cannot be extended to such an

extent that it creates disorder and anarchy in the society. The

bail cannot be granted only on the ground of long

incarceration. 20. In Gobarbhai Naranbhai Singala vs. State of

Gujarat and Others , (2008) 3 SCC 775, it was observed

that the period of incarceration by itself would not entitle the

accused to be enlarge on bail. In Anil Kumar Yadav vs.

State (NCT of Delhi ), (2018) 12 SCC 129, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed that in a serious matter, the mere

fact that the accused is in custody for more than one year may

not be a relevant consideration. 21. Therefore, it is quite clear that an order of bail

cannot be granted in an arbitrary or fanciful manner. While

dealing with an application for bail, there is a need to indicate

in the order, reasons for prima facie considering why bail is

being granted particularly where an accused is charged of

having committed a serious offence. Any order dehors reasons

suffers from non-application of mind as observed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay vs.

Sudarshan Singh and Others , (2002) 3 SCC 598. 10 22. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case,

there is no force in the submissions of learned counsel for the

applicants and no good ground has been made out for

enlarging the applicants on bail at this stage. From the perusal

of the evidence, collected during the investigation, it prima

facie appears that the applicants were involved in the OMR

sheets manipulation scam. Therefore, all three bail

applications are liable to be rejected. 23. For the reasons afore-stated, and without

expressing any views on merits of the case, I reject all these

three Bail Applications. 24. It is clarified that the observations made regarding

the bail applications are limited to the decision, in the light of

the facts, provided by the parties at this stage, as to whether

the bail applications should be allowed or not and the said

observations shall not effect the trial of the case. 25. A copy of this order be placed on the record of BA1

No.718 of 2023 and BA1 No.2159 of 2023. ___________________
 ALOK KUMAR VERMA, J. Dt:09.11.2023
JKJ/Pant