India’s IT Ministry has come out with draft rules to regulate online gaming by amending the IT Rules, 2021, a week after it was made in charge of the sector. The proposed amendments require gaming companies to be part of a self-regulatory body, only publish games approved by such bodies, follow know-your-customer (KYC) norms, and set up a grievance redressal system, among other things.

“With the user base of online games growing in India, need has been felt to ensure that such games be offered in conformity with Indian laws and that the users of such games be safeguarded against potential harm.” — IT Ministry

The Ministry has invited feedback from the public on these draft amendments by January 17, 2023 . The feedback may be submitted on MyGov .

Why does this matter: Due to the lack of central regulations for online gaming, multiple Indian states have come out with their own regulations to address some of the harms posed by the sector. This, in turn, has created uncertainty for online gaming companies. The proposed rules are expected to provide some clarity and certainty to this fast-growing sector.

Online gaming intermediaries: The current IT Rules, 2021, primarily cover social media intermediaries, but many of the proposed amendments are targeted at a new class of intermediaries—online gaming intermediaries, which are defined as intermediaries that offer one or more online games.

Online game: An online game is defined as “a game that is offered on the Internet and is accessible by a user through a computer resource if he makes a deposit with the expectation of earning winnings”.

Free games not covered: Online games that are free to play don’t appear to fall under the ambit of the proposed rules.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

Online gaming companies are expected to follow all the due diligence that is applicable to social media intermediaries under the IT Rules, 2021 , and then a few additional requirements specific to gaming intermediaries. Overall, here are some key requirements for online gaming platforms:

In addition to the existing due diligence that is applicable to them under the IT Rules, 2021, all intermediaries, including social media intermediaries, significant social media intermediaries and online gaming intermediaries must:

Clause 6A of the proposed amendments allows the IT Ministry to notify any other game played on the internet as an “online game”subject to the rules mentioned above even if it doesn’t involve making any deposit, as long as the Ministry is “satisfied that such game may create a risk of harm to the sovereignty and integrity of India or security of the State or friendly relations with foreign States or public order, on account of causing addiction or other harm among children.”

Note (3 January, 6:50 pm): The government powers section was added.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event