Amid its impending Initial Public Offering (IPO), Urban Company is facing a ‘Worker Ka IPO’ campaign by the Gig & Platform Service Workers Union (GIPSWU), targeting its “deeply unsustainable business model.” Noting their contribution to the platform’s long-term growth, the union laid out the following demands:

Accordingly, GIPSWU sent an open letter to Urban Company’s prospective investors, setting forth these demands.

The union’s initiative also stems from deep-seated resentment against the platform’s operating model. They accuse Urban Company of laying off women unfairly, despite its pitch of women’s empowerment and job creation. Notably, the company lists its partnership with the NITI Aayog’s Women Entrepreneurship Program (WEP)—to scale up women-led MSMEs—as a milestone while filing its draft papers for the IPO. This collaboration aimed to provide skill development across legal compliance, finance, market access, and other spheres to selected women entrepreneurs. In contrast, the GIPSWU alleges that the upfront training and joining fees of at least Rs 50,000 perpetuate a cycle of debt for women workers.

Speaking of its IPO plans, the at-home services marketplace sought to raise Rs 1,900 crore, as per its Draft Red Herring Prospectus ( DRHP ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). This comprises an issue of fresh shares worth Rs 429 crore and an offer for sale of equity shares worth Rs 1,471 crore.

This marked a significant decrease from the company’s previously planned Rs 3,000 crore IPO.

Consequently, Accel India IV will offload shares worth Rs 433 crore, followed by Bessemer India Capital Holdings (Rs 173 crore) and Elevation Capital V (Rs 346 crore), among others.

The company contended that an inability to service customers satisfactorily may damage its business and reputation. In FY24, the company recorded 4.31 million customer complaints, up from 1.08 million in FY23. However, it claimed to have a 99% rate for resolving these disputes.

The company faces competition from both traditional offline service providers and online platforms with similar offerings. It claims that offline competitors in the Indian market leverage their local reputations, direct relationships with customers, lower cost, and flexible pricing tactics to attract price-sensitive customers. Besides existing players, new entrants in the at-home services space could also cause churn of service professionals by offering higher incentives. Conversely, in the overseas market, online platforms may have an edge over the company through leveraging greater financial resources, more advanced technologies, or extensive service offerings.

Consequently, the company may have to reduce prices or boost customer or marketing incentives to counter such competitive threats.

The platform explains that any inability to attract and retain service professionals could render it “less appealing” to consumers. In that regard, it routinely receives complaints and grievances from service professionals on issues like disputes relating to customer complaints, ratings, and penalties due to non-adherence to service standards. In FY24, Urban Company resolved 99.78% of the 4.15 million complaints received from service professionals.

Besides this, the DRHP also noted potential operational risks arising from inappropriate activity and oversight errors by service partners that could impact business growth. Urban Company contended that it has received inaccurate information during background checks of service professionals in the past. The company has also faced fraud by employees during their payment processes. Concerning the repayment of any services involving defective or damaged products, Urban Company disbursed Rs 28.5 crore in goodwill refunds granted to customers.

After using the platform for its services, customers and service professionals may circumvent it and engage with each other directly to avoid transaction fees levied by the platform. Additionally, service partners may develop their reputation and clientele and later market their skills outside. To counter such situations, the company has initiated measures like disallowing the cancellation of an order after the service has commenced.

As per its terms and conditions, Urban Company requires service professionals to deposit a certain amount of credits as a “pre-deposit” to accept leads or orders. However, in case a partner cancels a service after accepting a request, the platform has the liberty to determine whether or not the pre-deposit will be refunded. Besides this, the company also notes that any provision of ‘Pro Services’ (services outside the platform’s purview) by service partners violates the platform’s service conditions and is considered adequate grounds for termination.

Urban Company first claimed that its service professionals are ‘independent contractors’ and not ’employees’ under the country’s existing regulatory framework. Further, it stated that several gig-worker unions initiated protests and filed complaints with relevant labour offices against the company, claiming an employer-employee relationship between the parties. However, most of the complaints have been closed without any adverse order or penalty, the platform contends.

The company states that if regulations like the Code on Social Security 2020 come into effect, it would classify service professionals as ’employees’ and thereby increase its liabilities. Consequently, the platform could face lawsuits, demands for arbitration, charges, and claims before administrative agencies, investigations, or audits by labour and tax authorities, among others.

This factor follows protests against the company by women gig workers alleging an ‘auto’ job assignment feature on the platform without acknowledging the service professional’s consent. Later, women workers in Telangana also wrote to the state’s labour department against Urban Company’s alleged wage theft practices and algorithmic discrepancies, following complaints of ‘ill-treatment and exploitation’ previously.

Among other risk factors, the company lists a host of pending litigations against it, including actions by regulators. Of these, the actions instigated by service partners’ concerns are as follows:

Notably, in 2022, Urban Company launched a Partner Stock Ownership Plan (PSOP) to provide share options for its gig workers. Within this, stock allotment depended on factors like the service partners’ performance and longevity on the platform. While gig worker unions appreciated the move, they advocated for more clarity on the allotment and a written agreement by the platform.

Moving to 2025, the GIPSWU’s demand for ESOPs raises questions on the implementation and effectiveness of Urban Company’s PSOP. However, as per the company’s FY24 report , over 513 of its service partners have availed the program.

Further, while the platform establishes a grievance redressal mechanism to mediate service professionals’ disputes, its efficacy remains debatable. Speaking to MediaNama, Nirmal Gorana, National Coordinator of GIPSWU, cited an example of a service partner receiving a harsh and deficient response from the company’s service professional helpline when she contacted them during distress. Gorana also recalled an instance of Urban Company blocking the ID of another delivery partner after she availed a leave of four days.

“Given these concerns, our first step is to highlight these human rights violations to the company’s potential investors and make them aware of this. We plan to escalate this action further,” Gorana added. The union also aims to organise a #DryJune campaign, requesting customers to boycott the company.

Besides partners’ concerns, the GIPSWU also highlighted problems faced by customers.

“Urban Company isn’t making anyone happy. They talk all the time about ‘customer satisfaction’ but every other customer I service complains about the price going up, and all of us workers are facing mental pressure and health issues from the way the company is going”, stated Selvi, GIPSWU South Region Vice President.

This development follows severe backlash on the platform’s quick commerce service, ‘Insta Maids’, launched in March 2025. While some termed it “blatant exploitation”, others across the internet opined that it reduces human labour to a disposable app feature. Overall, while the impact of this campaign on the investors’ plans is unclear, it could potentially mar Urban Company’s IPO journey.

MediaNama has contacted Urban Company for their comments on these accusations and will update the story as soon as we hear from them.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event