A.M. Khanwilkar, J. 1. This appeal, by special leave, takes exception to the

 judgment and order passed by the Division Bench of the High

 Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench dated 04.12.2017 in Writ

 Appeal No.5872 of 2017. 2. Briefly stated, pursuant to notification dated 04.12.2015, Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by DEEPAK GUGLANI Date: 2018.03.06 elections were held and the appellant was elected on 12:51:19 IST Reason: 28.03.2016 as a member of the Zilla Panchayat from 13- 2 Badanahatti Constituency, Ballari District, Karnataka which

was reserved for General (Women) Category. Later, the State

Government published a notification on 15.04.2016 declaring

the reservation for the post of Adhyaksha and Upa-Adhyaksha

of Zilla Panchayats in the State. In Ballari Zilla Panchayat, the

post of Adhyaksha was reserved for the category of Backward

Caste-B (Women). After the said notification, since the

appellant intended to contest the election to the post of

Adhyaksha of Ballari Zilla Panchayat, she made an application

on 22.04.2016 to the jurisdictional Tahshildar for issuance of

Income and Caste Certificate, a certificate which was a

prerequisite for submitting the nomination form for the

election to the post of Adhayaksha. That certificate was issued

by the Tahshildar on 26.04.2016 on the basis of which the

appellant contested the election held on 29.04.2016 and was

declared elected. As required in terms of the Karnataka

Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward

Classes (Reservation of Appointment etc.) Act, 1990 and the

Rules framed thereunder, the Income and Caste Certificate

has been forwarded to the District Caste Verification 3 Committee Ballari. The process of verification thereof is still in

progress. 3. According to the appellant, at the behest of the

unsuccessful candidates who could not file any election

petition to challenge the election of the appellant, respondent

Nos.6 to 9 filed a writ petition before the High Court of

Karnataka, Dharwad being Writ Petition No.106417 of 2016,

about 3 months after the election of the appellant as

Adhyaksha. The substance of the allegation made in the said

writ petition against the appellant was that she played fraud

on the Government and public by submitting a false affidavit

before the Tahshildar for issuance of Income and Caste

Certificate, on the basis of which she contested the election for

the post of Adhyaksha Zilla Panchayat and got elected to the

said post, to which she was otherwise not entitled to or

qualified for. The allegation about the nature of fraud

committed by the appellant can be discerned from the

assertions made in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the writ petition,

which read thus: 4. This writ petition was contested by the appellant inter

alia on the ground that the same was not maintainable in view

of the bar contained in Article 243-O of the Constitution of

India. Further, the writ petitioners were only voters and

therefore, had no locus to challenge the election of the 6 appellant as Adhyaksha, which was an indirect election. Rule

7 of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Rules explicitly envisages

that only a member of the Panchayat may challenge the

validity of the election of Adhyaksha and Upa-Adhyaksha. It

was also pointed out that the writ petition filed by the said

respondents was a politically motivated petition and filed at

the behest of unsuccessful candidates who could not prevent

the appellant from getting elected as Adhyaksha. As regards

the allegations in the writ petition that the appellant had made

false declarations and filed incorrect affidavits, the appellant

contended that the Income and Caste Certificate was issued in

favour of the appellant by the competent authority after

completing all the formalities and procedure. So long as the

said certificate was valid and in force, issuance of writ of quo

warranto was misplaced. For, there is legal presumption about

the validity of the said certificate in terms of Rules 3-C of the

Rules of 1992 framed under the 1990 Act. The said Rule

makes it amply clear that the certificate would remain valid

until it is cancelled by the jurisdictional Caste Verification

Committee. The appellant also pointed out that the allegation 7 made in the writ petition, regarding the false or incorrect

income disclosure made by the appellant, was wrong and ill-

founded. Such allegation was based on far-fetched logic and

untenable assumptions. The affidavit dated 06.02.2016

submitted along with the nomination form filed for contesting

elections from 13-Badanahatti Constituency was in reference

to the factual position stated therein. Similarly, the affidavit

filed by the appellant dated 26.04.2016 was also true, faithful

and accurate as it disclosed facts in reference to the

qualification required for contesting the election of Adhyaksha

at the relevant time, in respect of post reserved for “B”

Category (Women) Backward Caste. In other words, both the

affidavits and the information disclosed therein were truthful,

accurate and contextual, as noted in the respective affidavit.

The appellant also asserted that the fact that the Income and

Caste Certificate was issued within five days from the date of

application for the said certificate or on the same date the

affidavit dated 26th April, 2016 was filed before the Tahshildar,

could not give rise to a presupposition, inference or

assumption that the same was issued without necessary and 8 proper enquiry. On the other hand, there is legal presumption

that the same was valid, having been issued by the

jurisdictional Tahshildar competent in that regard. The

circumstances, of the time of issue of E-stamps at about 5:27

P.M. or the date of affidavit being 26.04.2016, cannot be a just

basis to assume that the certificate was fraudulent, in the

face of the statutory provision making it explicit that it would

be valid until cancelled by the Caste Verification Committee.

Thus, the circumstances relied upon by the writ petitioners

were neither relevant nor sufficient to draw any inference on

fact, much less legal inference, so as to conclude that the

certificate was fraudulently issued. The fact that the appellant

belongs to “Kapu Caste”, which is notified as B Category

Backward Class; and the declaration regarding income made

by the appellant, are issues which are intrinsically mixed with

the issuance of the Income and Caste Certificate. It is not open

to question the validity of the said certificate much less to

entertain the prayer for issuance of a writ of quo warranto on

the assumption that the said certificate was fraudulent

because of some fortuitous circumstances. It was pointed out 9 by the appellant that the writ of quo warranto is not an

ordinary power to be exercised by the High Court and moreso,

in the matter involving disputed questions of fact. The High

Court may be justified in issuing such a writ only if it is

indisputable that the elected public representative was

ineligible or disqualified to contest the election or had incurred

disqualification at a later point of time. In either case, such a

person cannot justify holding on to the public post such as

that of Adhyaksha. That situation will arise only if the Caste

Verification Committee was to invalidate and cancel the

Income and Caste Certificate issued in favour of the appellant

and not otherwise. On these contentions, the appellant prayed

for dismissal of the writ petition. 5. Preliminary objection regarding bar of jurisdiction in

terms of Article 243-O of the Constitution of India and locus of

the writ petitioners raised by the appellant commended to the

learned Single Judge, who dismissed the writ petition vide

judgment and order dated 21.10.2016. 6. Being aggrieved by the dismissal of the writ petition, the

writ petitioners (respondent Nos.6 to 9 herein) carried the

matter in Writ Appeal No.101459 of 2016. The Division Bench

reversed the judgment of the learned Single Judge and allowed

the writ appeal vide judgment and order dated 05.06.2016. It

remanded the matter to the learned Single Judge for fresh

decision. 7. The appellant therefore, approached this Court by way of

Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.17059 of 2017 (converted to

Civil Appeal No.10587 of 2017) wherein the preliminary

objection regarding the bar under Article 243-O of the

Constitution of India and locus of the writ petitioners, as also

the contention that the only remedy to challenge the election

of the appellant would be an election petition, was reiterated.

The two-Judge Bench of this Court disposed of the appeal

preferred by the appellant on the finding that the voter of the

Panchayat cannot be rendered remediless and if he is

aggrieved by the election of the Adhyaksha of the Panchayat, it

is open to him to seek the remedy of judicial review under 11 Articles 226/227 of the Constitution of the India. In such

proceedings, it is open to the High Court to undertake judicial

review of the subject matter. In paragraph 13 of its judgment,

this Court observed thus: 8. Be that as it may, in light of the view expressed by this

Court, the parties were relegated before the learned Single

Judge of the High Court. Before the remanded writ petition

was taken up for hearing by the learned Single Judge, the

appellant filed a writ petition bearing Writ Petition No.108700

of 2017 (LB-RES) before the High Court of Karnataka,

Dharwad Bench, challenging the note appended to the

notification dated 13.01.1995. That notification had been

issued by the State Government in exercise of powers

conferred under Section 2(2) of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj

Act, 1993, for classifying and notifying the classes of citizens

as Backward Class, for the purpose of reservation of seats and

office of Chairperson in Zilla Panchayat, Taluk Panchayat and

Gram Panchayat. The note predicates that no person falling

under category “B” would be entitled to the benefit of

reservation in the seats and office of Adhyaksha and Upa- 13 Adhyaksha of Zilla Panchayat, Taluk Panchayat and Gram

 Panchayat if, inter alia, he/she or either of his/her

 parents/guardians was an income tax assessee/wealth tax

 assessee (Clause ii). This stipulation has been assailed by the

 appellant as being in the teeth of the exposition of this Court

 in K. Krishna Murthy (Dr.) and Others Vs. Union of India

 and Another1 and Indra Sawhney and Others Vs. Union of

 India2 . The High Court being prima facie convinced with the

 said contention granted interim stay to the said stipulation

 (Clause ii) in the notification dated 13.01.1995. 9. Reverting to the remanded writ petition from which the

 present appeal arises as aforesaid, the same was to be heard

 by the learned Single Judge on merits of the controversy for

 grant of reliefs prayed in the writ petition including for

 issuance of a writ of quo warranto. The learned Single Judge,

 after examining the rival contentions and after taking note of

 the original documents forming part of the original file

1 (2010) 7 SCC 202
2 (1992) Supp (3) SCC 210 14 produced by the Government advocate, opined vide judgment

and order dated 21.09.2017 as under: Whether this casual attitude of the respondent No.5 can
 be said as illegality or negligence is to be considered in a
 separate proceedings”. (emphasis supplied)

Again, while dealing with the factual matrix of the case, the

learned Single Judge, in the same judgment, analysed the

issue as follows: Badanahatti Constituency which was reserved for General
Category (Woman). In her affidavit (Annexure-E dated
06.2.2016) itself she has stated that she is an income tax
assessee and has even furnished PAN (permanent account
number). However, the said fact is suppressed in the
subsequent affidavit vide Annexure-F dated 26.04.2016
submitted before the Tahasildar, Kurugodu (respondent
No. 5) along with her application for obtaining Backward
Class B Community certificate. xxx xxx xxx xxx

38… However, the respondent No.5 is under suspension
pending enquiry with regard to the procedure adopted by 17 him in issuing the caste certificate to the respondent
 No.6. 39. The respondent No.6 who is elected by a democratic
 process, she belonged to Kapu caste, which caste falls under
 Backward Class-B category, which is indicated in the
 Government Notification dated 13.01.1995 of the Government
 of Karnataka. However, now the issue is pending before the
 Caste Verification Committee and that issue cannot be
 decided under the jurisdiction of this court under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India. 40…. whereas in the instant writ petition the Income Tax
 Returns filed by the respondent No. 6 pertains to the year
 2013-14. But she sworn in the affidavit that she is not an
 assessee for the year 2015-16. It reflects the conduct of
 the respondent No.6.”
 (emphasis supplied)

Finally, the learned Single Judge concluded as under: However, the declaration regarding her family income
 reveals that it is more than Rs.3,50,000/- p.a. that too
 only from the rental income. This shows that the
 respondent No. 6 files an affidavit to secure the caste and
 income certificate from the respondent No.5, who issued
 the certificate in a mortal hurry. This creates serious
 doubt about the genuinity or otherwise of the process of 18 issuing the caste certificate. However, the issue is now
 pending before the Caste Verification Committee, which is
 a fact finding committee and would be decided in its own
 course. Hence, the question of fact as regarding the caste
 of respondent No. 6 in this writ petition does not arise for
 consideration. In view of the aforesaid reasons, I am of the opinion, since the
 respondent No. 6 has not declared her correct and proper
 family income only with an intention to hold the post of
 Adhyaksha which is a public office, must be prevented from
 holding the office.”
 (emphasis supplied)

On the said finding and after recording its opinion, the learned

Single Judge passed the following order: “6. The judgment of the High Court does not indicate that the
 attention of the High Court was drawn to the technical
 nature of the writ of quo warranto which was claimed by
 the respondent in the present proceedings, and the
 conditions which had to be satisfied before a writ could
 issue in such proceedings. 7. As Halsbury has observed : 8. Broadly stated, the quo warranto proceeding affords a
 judicial remedy by which any person, who holds an
 independent substantive public office or franchise or liberty, is
 called upon to show by what right he holds the said office,
 franchise or liberty, so that his title to it may be duly
 determined, and in case the finding is that the holder of the
 office has no title, he would be ousted from that office by
 judicial order. In other words, the procedure of quo warranto
 gives the Judiciary a weapon to control the Executive from
 making appointment to public office against law and to protect
 a citizen from being deprived of public office to which he has a

3 (1964) 4 SCR 575 23 right. These proceedings also tend to protect the public from
 usurpers of public office, who might be allowed to continue
 either with the connivance of the Executive or by reason of its
 apathy. It will, thus, be seen that before a person can
 effectively claim a writ of quo warranto, he has to
 satisfy the Court that the office in question is a public
 office and is held by a usurper without legal authority,
 and that inevitably would lead to the enquiry as to
 whether the appointment of the alleged usurper has
 been made in accordance with law or not.”

 (emphasis supplied) 14. The moot question in the present case is: whether the

High Court, in the facts of the present case, was justified in

invoking its extraordinary jurisdiction to issue a writ of quo

warranto? Let us advert to the assertion made in the writ

petition in support of such a relief claimed by the respondent

Nos.6 to 9. The relevant paragraphs have been extracted in

paragraph 3 of this judgment, being paragraphs 6 and 7 of the

writ petition. The case of the writ petitioners was that the

appellant, in order to grab the post of Adhyaksha of Zilla

Panchayat, submitted a bogus and false certificate indicating

that she belongs to the backward community-B category,

which was surreptitiously obtained from respondent No.5. In

support of this plea, the crux of the allegation is that a false,

incorrect and misleading declaration was given by the 24 appellant in respect of her financial status and income. In

that, in the first affidavit dated 6th February, 2016 she had

declared that she was receiving rent of Rs. One lakh forty

thousand per annum and her husband was receiving rent of

Rs. Four lakh eighty thousand per annum. Whereas in the

second affidavit dated 26th April, 2016 filed in support of the

application for grant of Income and Caste Certificate, she has

stated that the annual income of her family was only Rs. Three

lakh fifty thousand; and that she and her husband were not

paying income tax and commercial tax. According to the writ

petitioners, this declaration was false to the knowledge of the

appellant. Further, the caste certificate was issued on the

same day of the application without any proper inquiry as

required under the law. On these assertions, the matter

proceeded before the High Court. We will advert to the

explanation offered by the appellant a little later. 15. First, we must notice the other material which had come

on record during the hearing of the writ petition and which

weighed with the High Court. During the hearing, the original 25 official file relating to the grant of caste certificate to the

appellant was produced by the Government Advocate, as noted

in paragraph 11 of the judgment of the learned Single Judge

and extracted in paragraph 9 above. On analyzing the

documents contained in the original file, it is noticed that the

certificate was not granted to the appellant on the same day of

the application as alleged but it took almost five days‟ time for

processing the application and for its issuance. In that, first, a

notice was issued by the Revenue Inspector, then, a report of

the Revenue Inspector was obtained, Mahazar was prepared,

statement was recorded, and then affidavit of the appellant

came to be filed along with other documents, as has been

noted in the original file. 16. The concurrent finding recorded by the learned Single

Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court is that the

process of issuance of the certificate to the appellant by the

jurisdictional Authority was done in a mortal hurry. This

inference has been drawn by the High Court in light of the

facts revealed from the original official file - that the appellant 26 purchased stamp paper for preparing affidavit at 5.27 p.m. on

26th April, 2016 and used the same for notarization and also

submitted it to the respondent No.5, who then issued the

caste certificate on the same day i.e. 26th April, 2016. The

Court has also noted that there was some overwriting in

relation to the date. After adverting to these circumstances,

the High Court opined that there was something seriously

wrong about the process adopted by the respondent No.5 for

issuance of caste certificate, which was obviously done to

favour the appellant who could then contest the election. The

High Court also noted that the respondent No.5 who had

issued the stated certificate was later on suspended, pending

departmental enquiry against him in reference to the selfsame

certificate issued to the appellant. Additionally, the High

Court has found that there was discrepancy in the two

affidavits filed by the appellant, which is in the nature of

suppression and non-disclosure of material financial

information. Finally, the High Court concluded that since the

issue regarding the validity of Income and Caste Certificate

was pending before the Caste Verification Committee, which 27 was a fact finding Committee, the Committee would decide the

same on its own merits. Notably, the High Court did not quash

the caste certificate as being void but left it open to the Caste

Verification Committee to proceed in accordance with law. 17. It is pertinent to mention that the Division Bench of the

High Court, while deciding Writ Appeal No.101459 of 2016,

vide judgment dated 5th June, 2017, has recorded in Para 12

of the judgment that there is no dispute as to the caste status

of the appellant herein; that she belongs to “Kapu” Caste is

not at all in dispute. Considering the above, the issue before

the Caste Verification Committee would essentially be one

relating to the income eligibility of the appellant. That may be

a mixed question of fact and law. Presumably, therefore, the

High Court stopped short of quashing the Income and Caste

Certificate issued in favour of the appellant as being void. 18. In this backdrop, the controversy will have to be analysed

so as to determine whether the High Court was justified in

issuing a writ of quo warranto in such a situation. Interfering

in exercise of writ jurisdiction is limited to judicial review of 28 the decision making process and not of the decision itself. In

this case, the final decision regarding the validity of Income

and Caste Certificate issued to the appellant has been

advisedly kept open, thereby the same, in law and in fact, is

still valid and in force. There is statutory presumption that

such caste certificate shall be valid until it is cancelled by the

Competent Authority. However, the only logic that can be

deduced from the contemplation done by the learned Single

Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court, is that the

process followed by the respondent No.5 for issuing the stated

certificate to the appellant is replete with serious doubt and,

therefore, is prima facie fraudulent. 19. In other words, the existence of the caste certificate or for

that matter the fact that it has been so issued by the

respondent No.5, is not doubted or in dispute. It is not a case

of appellant relying on a non-existing or officially non-issued

caste certificate. Thus, enquiry will have to be made about the

circumstances warranting issuance of stated certificate in a

tearing hurry by the respondent No.5, allegedly to favour the 29 appellant. The other aspect is about the discrepancies in the

two affidavits submitted by the appellant and including the

suppression and non-disclosure of her truthful financial

information. 20. Indubitably, both these aspects will be the subject matter

of the enquiry before the Caste Verification Committee, being

intrinsically mixed with the question of validity of the stated

certificate. Appellant had offered explanation on both these

matters. Regarding the factum of mortal hurry allegedly

displayed by the respondent No.5 in issuing the caste

certificate, she contends that it was not issued on the same

day as alleged but after due enquiry. That is evinced from the

original official file produced before the Court. In that, the

application was made on 22nd April, 2016 whence the process

commenced and then concluded on 26th April, 2016. The

process was required to be completed expeditiously as the

certificate was required for contesting the impending election

of Adhyaksha scheduled on 29th April, 2016. This explanation

certainly will have to be examined by the Caste Verification 30 Committee, before invalidating the caste certificate on the

ground that proper procedure was not followed. For the

present, suffice it to observe that the mere fact that the

certificate was issued in a short span of five days from the

date of the application, per se, does not lead to an inference

that the required procedure has not been followed. 21. The fact as to whether necessary procedure has been

complied with or not will be one aspect of the enquiry before

the Caste Verification Committee, apart from the core aspect of

whether in fact the appellant fulfills the income and financial

criteria. The mere fact that the caste certificate has been

issued within a short span of five days albeit after following

due procedure, can be no just basis to invalidate the certificate

by the Caste Verification Committee. The said Committee will

be obliged to record a clear finding of fact about the eligibility

of the appellant in reference to her financial status and

income, keeping in mind the purport of Clause (ii) of the Note

to Notification dated 13th January, 1995. While considering

that matter, the Committee will have to make an enquiry as to 31 whether the appellant or her parent(s)/guardian(s) “is” an

income tax assessee /wealth tax assessee on the date of

issuance of the certificate. As regards this fact, Caste

Verification Committee will have to examine the correctness

and efficacy of the two affidavits in its proper perspective

known to law. According to the appellant, there is no

discrepancy in the disclosures made by her in the two

declarations concerning her financial matters at the relevant

time. The first affidavit dated 6th February, 2016, correctly

discloses the fact that the appellant possessed PAN Card and

was an income tax assessee, having paid income tax for the

Financial Year 2013-14. The second affidavit dated 26th April,

2016 is also accurate and discloses the correct financial

position wherein it is stated that the annual income of her

family is Rs. Three lakh fifty thousand from all the sources;

and neither she nor her husband are income tax and

commercial tax payers in reference to the Financial Year

(2015-16), for which the affidavit was sworn on 26th April,

2016. It is also contended by the appellant that Clause (ii) of

the Note posits two aspects:- the first is that the incumbent or 32 either of his/her parents/guardian should not be an income

tax or wealth tax “assessee” at the relevant time. The

expression used in this clause, “is” an income tax

assessee/wealth tax assessee, pre supposes that it is in

praesenti and for the relevant period. Secondly, the incumbent

must necessarily fall within the expression “assessee” given in

the concerned tax laws. That means only a person, by whom

any tax or any other sum of money is payable under the Act

for the concerned period and not otherwise. No material has

been produced or is forthcoming that the appellant, or for that

matter, her husband, had paid any tax or are liable to pay tax

or a sum of money under the concerned tax legislation, for the

relevant period i.e. Financial Year 2015-16. Absence of such

evidence, the Income and Caste Certificate issued to the

appellant cannot be invalidated. Furthermore, the income of

her husband / spouse is not a relevant fact for issuance of the

Income and Caste Certificate. For, Clause (ii) excludes benefit

only if the incumbent or either of his/her parent/guardian is

an income tax assessee or wealth tax assessee. This provision

will have to be interpreted strictly, as in the case of provision 33 for any other disqualification. The appellant also asserts that

there is no discrepancy or for that matter suppression or non-

disclosure of financial information in the declarations

submitted by her. In any case, that would be a disputed

question of fact and per se concerning the issue of validity of

Income and Caste Certificate. 22. According to the appellant, as long as the Income and

Caste Certificate is valid and in force, which has only been

doubted by the High Court having been issued by the

respondent No.5 in a mortal hurry, the matter must rest at

that. We find force in the submission of the appellant that all

these issues will be the subject matter during the enquiry into

the question of validity of the stated Income and Caste

Certificate, which is pending before the Caste Verification

Committee. Even the High Court was conscious of this

position and perhaps, therefore, did not quash or set aside the

Income and Caste Certificate as being void. A writ of quo

warranto cannot be issued on the basis of assumptions,

inferences or suspicion regarding the factum of fulfillment of 34 eligibility criteria. Being an extraordinary power, ordinarily

such a writ ought to be issued only on the basis of

indisputable facts leading to a singular conclusion that the

incumbent was in fact or in law disqualified to occupy the

public office or has incurred disqualification to continue to

remain therein. Only whence such a person would fall within

the description of an usurper of public office without legal

authority. On the other hand, for a person possessing an

Income and Caste Certificate issued by the jurisdictional

Authority and so long as it is valid and in force, in fact and in

law, treating such a person as usurper of the public office and

occupying it without legal authority, cannot be countenanced.

In our opinion, the High Court had plainly erred in engaging

itself in an enquiry into a prohibited area which is already the

subject matter of the proceedings pending before the Caste

Verification Committee, without realizing that the observations

made by it were inherently bound to influence the Committee

from taking a just and proper decision in accordance with law

irrespective of its observation to decide without being

influenced by its decision. 23. Strikingly, neither the learned Single Judge nor the

Division Bench of the High Court thought it appropriate to

quash and set aside the Income and Caste Certificate as being

void. If the High Court was to allow that relief or other reliefs

claimed by the writ petitioners in entirety after a full-fledged

enquiry, the correctness of that approach could have been

tested on a different scale. We must immediately clarify that

we may not be understood to have said that such a course was

open to the High Court. That issue does not arise in this

appeal. 24. As aforementioned, the High Court stopped short of

concluding that the Income and Caste Certificate issued to the

appellant is void. It merely expressed a prima facie opinion that the

process adopted by the respondent No.5 to issue the Income and

Caste Certificate to the appellant created a serious doubt. At best,

it observed that the appellant was instrumental in playing fraud

upon the jurisdictional Authority and/or the said Authority

colluded with the appellant, by surreptitiously issuing the Income

and Caste Certificate to the appellant. But, finally, it has left the 36 question regarding the validity of the certificate open to be decided

 by the Caste Verification Committee, in the pending proceedings,

 dealing with the factum of validity of the certificate issued to the

 appellant. Having said this, the High Court could not have issued

 a writ of quo warranto. That writ could be issued only if the Income

 and Caste Certificate was held to be void or after it was invalidated

 by the Competent Authority. 25. The distinction between a void and voidable order was

 considered in the case of Nawabkhan Abbaskhan Vs. State of

 Gujarat.4 The Court noted the dictum of Rubinstein that, when

 an act is not voidable but void, it is a nullity and can be

 disregarded and impeached in any proceedings, before any Court

 or Tribunal and whenever it is relied upon. In other words, it is

 made subject to „collateral attack‟. The Court observed that illegal

 act of authorities, if can be defied on self-determined voidness,

 startling consequences will follow. It, however, made an exception

 of cases where the order is passed by the jurisdictional authority

 without hearing the party affected, which entails injury to a 4 (1974) 2 SCC 121 37 Constitutionally guaranteed right to the affected party. It held that

such orders may be treated as void and ineffectual to bind the

parties from the beginning. That is not the case on hand. The

underlying principle is that, in cases such as the one under

consideration, the Income and Caste Certificate can only be

invalidated after affording opportunity to the holder of the

certificate. It will be useful to reproduce the legal position summed

up by the Court in paragraph 18 as follows: 26. In K. Venkatachalam Vs. A. Swamickan5 , the challenge

 was to the election of the appellant to the Legislative Assembly in

 Tamil Nadu by way of a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution

 filed by the contesting candidate (respondent therein) for a

 declaration that the appellant was not qualified to be a Member of

 Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, since he was not enrolled as an

 elector in the electoral roll in the concerned constituency for the

 general elections in question. The Court analysed the factual

 matrix which pointed out that, admittedly, the incumbent was not

 an elector of the concerned constituency and that he blatantly and

 fraudulently impersonated himself as another elector in the

 constituency. Accepting that indisputable position, the Court

 proceeded to conclude that the appellant was not eligible to

 contest elections from the concerned constituency, not being a
5 AIR 1999 SC 1723 = (1999) 4 SCC 526 39 voter in that constituency. It thus held that the appellant therein

 lacked the basic qualification under Clause (c) of Article 173 of the

 Constitution of India read with Section 5 of the 1951 Act, which

 was quintessential to be elected from the constituency. On such

 finding, the Court entertained the writ petition under Article 226 and declared the appellant to be occupying the public office

 without legal authority and issued a writ of quo warranto. In other

 words, the matter was decided on the basis of indisputable and

 established facts. This judgment will be of no avail to the writ

 petitioners in the present case, so long as the Income and Caste

 Certificate issued to the appellant is in force. 27. In Kurapati Maria Das Vs. Ambedkar Seva Samajan6 the

 Court distinguished the decision in K. Venkatachalam (supra)

 being on the facts of that case and reversed the judgment of the

 High Court under challenge, whereby a writ of quo warranto was

 issued against the appellant therein. The reason for doing so may

 have some bearing on the matter in issue as in that case , there

 was dispute about the caste status of the appellant. The Court

6 (2009) 7 SCC 387 40 opined that the issue regarding the caste status can be decided

only by the Competent Authority under the relevant enactment

and not by the High Court. The Court accepted the contention of

the appellant that continuance of the post of Chairperson

depended directly on his election, firstly, as a ward member and

secondly as the Chairperson, which election was available only to

the person belonging to the Scheduled Caste. In paragraph 32 of

the reported decision, the Court while accepting the contention of

the appellant noted that the question of caste and his election are

so inextricably connected that they cannot be separated and

therefore, when the writ petitioners challenged the continuation of

the appellant on the ground of his not belonging to a particular

caste what they actually challenged was the validity of the election

of appellant though, apparently, the petition was for a writ of quo

warranto. 28. We agree with this exposition. It applies on all fours to the

case on hand. Inasmuch as, what the writ petitioners (respondents

6 to 9) had questioned was the correctness of the declarations

submitted by the appellant about her financial status and income 41 which, according to them was beyond the prescribed limit and

disentitled the appellant to get the Income cum Caste Certificate.

The firm stand taken by the appellant is that there was no

discrepancy between the two declarations muchless indicative of

excess income of the appellant at the relevant time. In our opinion,

there is no tittle of material forthcoming to show that in fact, the

appellant or her parents/guardians had paid income tax or wealth

tax during the relevant Financial Year 2015-16. That indeed could

have disentitled the appellant from getting an Income and Caste

Certificate. This submission of the appellant is founded on the

setting in which Clause (ii) of the Note has been placed and is

attracted only to an income tax assessee/wealth tax assessee as

per the relevant taxation laws during the current period. An

assessee is a person who pays taxes or is liable to pay tax or any

other sum of money payable by him/her. The argument is that the

fact that the appellant has been issued PAN number or has filed

tax return and paid tax in the past will be of no consequence and

does not impair or impinge upon the eligibility of the appellant to

get an Income and Caste Certificate for the relevant period in any

manner. As noted earlier, these are matters to be considered by 42 the Caste Verification Committee and only if rejected, the caste

 certificate in question could be invalidated. Until a final decision is

 taken by the Caste Verification Committee, in law, it will have to

 be presumed that subject certificate is valid and in force in view of

 the statutory provision making it explicit to that effect. 29. In the case of Arun Singh alias Arun Kr. Singh Vs. State

 of Bihar and Others7 , this Court over turned the decision of the

 High Court issuing a writ of quo warranto, on the ground that it

 was unclear from the orders passed by the Superintendence of

 Police or the District Magistrate, or for that matter, the State

 Election Commissioner, suggestive of the fact that the appellant

 therein was held to have committed any misconduct within the

 meaning of the Service Rules. In paragraph 13, the Court observed

 thus: 30. In B.R. Kapur Vs. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr.8 the

 Constitution Bench was called upon to consider the situation

 where a person convicted for a criminal offence and whose

 conviction has not been suspended pending appeal, could be

 sworn in as the Chief Minister of a State and continue to function

 as such. The Court was called upon to answer the controversy on

 the basis of indisputable fact that the incumbent Chief Minister

 had already been convicted of a criminal offence and such

 conviction had not been suspended in the pending criminal

 appeal. After considering the purport of Article 164 and Article 173 of the Constitution, the Court concluded that the appointment of

 the second respondent in the appeal as the Chief Minister was in

 clear violation of the constitutional provisions and thus a writ of

 quo warranto was inevitable. The substratum of the exposition was

 the factum of basic ineligibility of the person to be appointed or

 continue as Chief Minister. In a concurring judgment by Brijesh

 Kumar, J. (as His Lordship then was) the nature of writ of quo

 warranto has been explicated in the following words: 31. In the case of High Court of Gujarat and Anr. Vs. Gujarat

 Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat and Ors.11 (supra) in a concurring

 judgment S.B. Sinha, J. (as His Lordship then was) noted that the

 High Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction in a matter of this

 nature is required to determine at the outset as to whether a case

 has been made out for issuance of a writ of certiorari or a writ of

 quo warranto. However, the jurisdiction of the High Court to issue

 a writ of quo warranto is a limited one. While issuing such a writ,

 the Court merely makes a public declaration but will not consider

 the respective impact of the candidates or other factors which may

 be relevant for issuance of a writ of certiorari. The Court went on

 to observe that a writ of quo warranto can only be issued when the

 appointment is contrary to the statutory rules as held in Mor

 Modern Coop. Transport Society Ltd. Vs. Financial Commr. &

 Secy. To Government of Haryana12 . The Court also took notice

 of the exposition in R.K. Jain Vs. Union of India13 . The Court

 noted that with a view to find out as to whether a case has been

 made out for issuance of quo warranto, the only question which

11 (2003) 4 SCC 712
12 (2002) 6 SCC 269
13 (1993) 4 SCC 119 47 was required to be considered was as to whether the incumbent

 fulfilled the qualifications laid down under the statutory provisions

 or not. This is the limited scope of inquiry. Applying the underlying

 principle, the Court ought not to enquire into the merits of the

 claim or the defence or explanation offered by the appellant

 regarding the manner of issuance of Income and Caste Certificate

 by the jurisdictional Authority or any matter related thereto which

 may be matter in issue for scrutiny concerning the validity of the

 Caste Certificate issued by the jurisdictional statutory authority

 constituted under the State Act of 1990 and the rules framed

 thereunder. That inquiry may require examination of all factual

 aspects threadbare including the legality of the stand taken by the

 appellant herein. 32. In the case of Chairman and Managing Director, Food

 Corporation of India and Others Vs. Jagdish Balaram Bahira

 and Others14 , the question was in reference to the Caste

 Certificate which was invalidated after the verification done by the

 jurisdictional Scrutiny Committee. The observations in the said

14 (2017) 8 SCC 670 48 decision may be of some import, if the Caste Verification

 Committee was to invalidate the Caste Certificate issued to the

 appellant after due verification. As a matter of fact, the enquiry

 before the Caste Verification Committee ought to proceed in terms

 of the procedure prescribed by the Act of 1990 and Rules framed

 thereunder and including the dictum of this Court in, amongst others Madhuri Patil Vs. Commr., Tribal Development15 . 33. In Rajesh Awasthi Vs. Nand Lal Jaiswal and Ors.16 , the

 Court noted that a writ of quo warranto will lie when the

 appointment is made contrary to the statutory provisions as held

 in the case of Mor Modern Coop. Transport Society Ltd. (supra)

 Further, relying on the decision in the cases of B. Srinivasa

 Reddy Vs. Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage

 Board Employees Asson.17 and Hari Bansh Lal Vs. Sahodar

 Prasad Mahto18 , wherein the legal position has been restated that

 the jurisdiction of the High Court to issue a writ of quo warranto is

 a limited one which can only be issued if the appointment is

15 (1994) 6 SCC 241
16 (2013) 1 SCC 501
17 (2006) 11 SCC 731
18 (2010) 9 SCC 655 49 contrary to the statutory rules and the Court has to satisfy itself

 that the appointment is contrary to the statutory rules. In that

 case, the Court after analysing the factual matrix found, as of fact,

 that there was non-compliance of sub-Section (5) of Section 85 of

 the Electricity Act, 2003, in the matter of appointment of the

 incumbent to the post of Chairperson of the Commission for which

 it became necessary to issue a writ of quo warranto. In the

 supplementing judgment by one of us Dipak Misra, J. (as His

 Lordship then was), the settled legal position expounded in B.R.

 Kapur (supra), University of Mysore (supra), High Court of Gujarat (supra), Centre for PIL Vs. Union of India19 has been

 recapitulated in paragraphs 29 to 33 of the reported decision. 34. We have adverted to some of those decisions in the earlier

 part of this judgment. Suffice, it to observe that unless the Court

 is satisfied that the incumbent was not eligible at all as per the

 statutory provisions for being appointed or elected to the public

 office or that he/she has incurred disqualification to continue in

 the said office, which satisfaction should be founded on the

19 (2011) 4 SCC 1 50 indisputable facts, the High Court ought not to entertain the

prayer for issuance of a writ of quo warranto. 35. In the case of K. Krishna Murthy (Dr. ) (supra) the

Constitution Bench of this Court examined two questions as noted

in paragraph 9 of the reported judgment, which read thus: We may note that this decision may be of relevance to the

appellant to pursue his remedy before the High Court in the writ

petition No.108700 of 2017, questioning the validity of Clause (ii)

of the notification dated 13.01.1995 providing for exclusion of

“creamy layer” against the reserved category. We may, however,

without any hesitation record that the High Court had justly

negatived the argument of the appellant which was founded on the

interim relief granted by the High Court in the stated writ petition

on the ground that the same cannot validate an action which was

illegal so as to alter the eligibility criteria for contesting the election

of Adhyaksha conducted on 26th April, 2016. We do not intend to express any opinion either way on the pending

issues in that proceedings, which are not the subject 52 matter of this appeal. The High Court is free to deal with that writ

petition on its own merits in accordance with law. 36. This, however, will make no difference to the conclusion

which we must reach in this case that the High Court could not

have issued a writ of quo warranto until the Income and Caste

Certificate issued in favour of the appellant, on the basis of which

she participated in the election for the post of Adhyaksha and got

elected, was to be declared void or invalidated by the Caste

Scrutiny Committee. We do not wish to dilate on other incidental

aspects/arguments as the same will not have any bearing on the

conclusion noted above. 37. In a matter of this nature, the High Court, having kept open

the issue regarding the validity of the Income and Caste Certificate

to be decided by the jurisdictional Caste Verification Committee

and finding no legal basis to declare the certificate as void ab initio

or choosing to do so, ought to have instead directed the Caste

Verification Committee to expedite the enquiry and conclude the

same in a time bound manner. The course adopted by the High 53 Court has only prolonged the consideration of that issue by the

competent authority and embroiled the parties in avoidable

proceedings. 38. Accordingly, we allow this appeal and set aside the decisions

of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High

Court which are impugned in the present appeal. We, however,

dispose of the writ petition filed by the respondents 6 to 9 being

Writ Petition No.106417 of 2016 only by directing the Caste

Verification Committee to expedite the enquiry regarding the

validity of the Income and Caste Certificate issued to the appellant

by respondent no.5 and conclude the same preferably within two

months and also intimate its final decision to the appellant within

the same time. Needless to observe that the Caste Scrutiny

Committee will decide the matter on its own merit and without

being influenced whatsoever by any observations made in the

impugned judgments but in accordance with law. Besides, it shall

deal with every contention raised before it by recording tangible

reasons. 39. The appeal is allowed in the aforementioned terms with no

order as to costs. .………………………….CJI. (Dipak Misra)

 …………………………..….J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)

 …………………………..….J.
 (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud)
New Delhi; March 6, 2018.