SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Patanjali Lucky Draw. Potential Scam? Please read. [R]
DATE: 2017-02-27
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5wfp30/patanjali_lucky_draw_potential_scam_please_read_r/

--- POST TEXT ---

Regular Randian here. Using a throwaway account.

So today I received a call from someone claiming to be calling from Patanjali. He first asked whether he was taking to FirstName LastName. (My name is not generic. In fact, there are only 2 people with my name on this planet that I know of. So really really rare). On confirmation, he informed me that I have won a lucky draw contest and my prize is a Tata Indica car.

Now I'm not a regular user of Patanjali products, in fact, I make a point of not buying any of their products. I did buy one Patanjali cream from Amazon in September 2016 for my mother and that is the only Patanjali purchase that I've made in my entire life. He went on to tell me that this is regarding the Patanjali Moisturising cream that I bought. He knew the full name of the product.

He then told me that I have two options. Either to take the car or to take the cash (560,000 Rs.) in full. For car they'll deliver it to my house. For cash, I'll have to send my account details like (account number, bank branch and IFSC code) and he will drop the cheque. I'll also have to pay 1% TDS and they cannot adjust it in cheque because the cheques with them are pre-printed.

So he'll drop the cheque and then I'll pay 1% TDS (5600 Rs) and then the money will be cleared and deposited into my account. I told him to let me discuss the options with my family and get back to him.

I cut the call and I see that I've received a message from 'VK-PTNJLI' informing me about my win. It mentions a company Patanjali Herbal Limited and I can't check whether such company exists or not because MCA's website is down. It also had a customer care number 1800-121-6541. I search for Patanjali's customer care and it is a landline number 0130-xxx. In fact, there's no mention of 1800-121-6541 anywhere on the internet.

Against Fraud: 1. Knew the product name, my name, phone number and even my city etc. Pretty sure he knows my full address. 2. VK-PTNJLI - One has to register as a telemarketer with TRAI to send messages from VK-xxx. 3. 1800 number is given only to companies. And it comes with a significant cost.

For Fraud: 1. 1% TDS does not exist. 2. Asking me to deposit money before sending me money. Classic swindlers trick. 3. Very limited time window. I only have 30 minutes to decide how I want my prize after I would forfeit it. 4. No mention of this lucky draw anywhere. If a company does a lucky draw for 5 Lakh, they spend 50 Lakh on its promotion. But here, no promotion.

I called Amazon and enquired whether they share the data with companies. The representative checked my details and said it was Amazon fulfilled order and there's no way my data could have been leaked. And Amazon does not share customer data with anyone. The rep was almost dismissive.

I received a call from them again. And he told me everything once again. He told me I have three options, 1. Collect the car personally from Tata's headquarters in Mumbai. I'll have to be in Mumbai by tomorrow. (He knew I won't be taking this option because he knew my city and there's no way I could be in Mumbai by tomorrow).

Get the car delivered. In which case, I'll have to pay some amount as a transit insurance to them.

Get cash. But this time, he didn't say anything about TDS but instead, told me that I'll have to pay about 1% as OTP charges mandated by RBI. It is because my entire money has to be transferred online and it has these OTP charges.

Now this is where I confirmed that this was a fraud and told them I won't be collecting my prize.

The question is, how did they come across my information. The item that I bought was Amazon fulfilled. Amazon does not share my information so how did they know which product, my name, my tier 3 city. How did they get a 1800 number? How did they send message from VK-XXX?

What do you guys think?