1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide present suit under S. 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of the Copyright
 Act, 1957 for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement, passing off, delivery up and rendition of
 accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala House
 Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the case was
 received by this Court by way of transfer, on 20-07-2022,
 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./NDD/ PHC/2022
 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal District &
 Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as ' Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed
 against the defendants, who were arrayed as
 'Ashok Kumar' on the basis of 'John Doe' principle as
 applicable in India. Subsequent to execution of local
 commission, an application u/s 151 CPC along with
 amended memo of parties seeking substitution of John Doe
 (Ashok Kumar)/ defendants was moved on behalf of
 the plaintiff, which was allowed and consequently, Ashok CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 2 of 30 Kumar (John Doe) / defendant was deleted and Armario
 Clothing and Accessories and Essa Kazim Fazal Ali Abidi
 were substituted and impleaded as defendants nos.1 and 2
 respectively. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is that the
 plaintiff is an American company having its principal
 office at Maryland, USA and got instituted the present suit
 through constituted attorney namely Ms. Meena Bansal,
 who is duly authorized by the plaintiff company to
 institute, sign, verify and pursue the present suit. It is
 claimed that the plaintiff is engaged in the business of
 manufacturing, distribution and sale of large variety of
 goods including casual apparel, sports apparel, footwear,
 and other allied / related products (hereinafter referred to
 as "goods and business"). It is further claimed that the
 plaintiff has been using the trademark/ label "UNDER

 ARMOUR ", " since 1996 (hereinafter referred
 to as said "trademark/ label"). 5. Further, the plaintiff has given detailed history of the
 plaintiff company in Para no.4 of the plaint, wherein it is
 mentioned, inter alia, that UNDER ARMOUR was
 founded in 1996 by Kevin Plank, a then 23- year-old
 former special teams Captain of the University of
 Maryland Football Team. UNDER ARMOUR received
 its first big break in 1999 when Warner Brothers
 contacted UNDER ARMOUR to outfit two of its feature CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 3 of 30 films, Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday and The
 Replacements. In Any Given Sunday, Willie Beamen
 (played by Jamie Foxx) wears an UNDER ARMOUR
 jockstrap. Leveraging the release of Any Given Sunday,
 Plank purchased an ad in ESPN The Magazine. The
 ad generated close to $750,000 in sales, and three years
 after starting the company, Plank finally put himself on the
 payroll. In late 2007, UNDER ARMOUR opened its first
 full-line full-price retail location at the Westfield
 Annapolis mall in Annaoolis Marvland and by 2003, it had
 opened several speciality stores and factory outlet
 locations in Canada, China and 39 states and First Brand
 House in Baltimore. 6. It is further the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff has been
 honestly & bonafide, continuously, commercially, openly
 and to the exclusion of others, uninterruptedly and in the
 course of trade and as proprietor thereof, using its said
 trademark in relation to its said goods and business and is
 carrying on its business thereunder and has built up a
 worldwide and globally valuable trade, goodwill and
 reputation thereunder and has acquired proprietary rights
 therein. The plaintiff has further claimed that besides
 having worldwide registration, the said trademark is also
 registered in India in its favour under various classes
 under the provision of trademarks Act and same are
 stated to be valid and subsisting as on date in favour of
 the plaintiff and details thereof have been given in Para
 no.7 of the plaint. Hence, it has claimed itself to be CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 4 of 30 owner and proprietor of the said trademarks/ labels. 7. Further, the plaintiff has also claimed that the art work
 involved in the plaintiff's said trademark are original artistic
 works within the meaning of Indian Copyright Act, 1957 and the plaintiff is the owner and proprietor thereof. Further,
 the plaintiff has been dealing with its art works/ copyright in
 the course of the trade in relation to its said goods and
 business, inter alia, within the meaning of S. 14 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 8. It is further claimed that the plaintiff has also been
 innovative in creating punch lines like "I WILL" which
 has been converted in campaigns like. 9. It is further the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff has
 also got domain name registered in its favour viz
 www.underarmour.com [hereinafter referred to as the said
 domain name / website] and the plaintiff's goods have been
 available in India through its website
 www.underarmour.co./en-in as plaintiff ships its products
 in India. Thus, it is claimed that the plaintiff operates
 around the globe and directly or indirectly employs nearly
 one million people through suppliers, shippers, retailers,
 and other services providers and at the end of fiscal year
 2017, the plaintiff's revenue reached up to 4977 million
 dollars. 10. Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff
 maintains highest standard of quality in relation to its
 goods and business under the said trademark/ label. Further, the plaintiff invests heavily in R & D and its
 products are known for their highest standards of quality,
 safety, innovation and reliability and there is an ever
 increasing demand therefore. Further, the plaintiff's said
 trademark/label have all become distinctive, associated and
 have acquired secondary significance with the plaintiff and
 plaintiff's said goods and business. The purchasing public,
 the trade and industry at large worldwide and in India,
 identify and distinguish the plaintiff's said goods under the
 said trademark/ label with the plaintiff and from the
 plaintiff's source and origin alone and regard them as a
 high quality products exclusively as that of the plaintiff. 11. It is further claimed that the plaintiff has regularly and
 continuously been promoting its said distinctive trademark
 through extensive advertisements, publicity promotion and
 market research and the plaintiff has been spending
 enormous amount of money, efforts, labour and skill
 thereon. The plaintiff has been doing so, through various
 means and modes, including through visual and print
 media, trade literature and magazines, including on the
 internet, television advertisement etc., world wide,
 including in India. In view thereof, the said trademarks/
 labels enjoys tremendous goodwill and reputation
 worldwide, including in India. It is further claimed that the
 plaintiff's said trademark/ label are well known trademarks
 within the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of The trademarks
 Act, 1999. 12. It is further the case of the plaintiff that on account of
 its good quality and standards of manufacturing and
 untiring efforts in advertising and marketing, the products
 of the plaintiff under the said trademarks/labels have
 acquired enviable reputation and goodwill not only in
 India but across the globe. Further, the plaintiff spend huge
 amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products under the said trademarks in India and around the
 world, due to which the products of the plaintiff under the
 said trademarks enjoy huge goodwill and reputation in
 business community and public in general in India
 and across the world. The plaintiff Company has
 got huge turnover against sale of its products worldwide.
 Hence, it is claimed that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights, both under statutory and common law in
 its said trademark, its goodwill & reputation, and its
 copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive right to the use
 thereof and nobody can be permitted to use the same or
 any other deceptively similar trademark/label
 in any manner whatsoever in relation to any
 specification of goods without the leave and license of
 the plaintiff. 13. The plaintiff company has alleged that the defendants are
 engaged in the business of manufacturing, marketing, sale,
 use and trading of apparels, clothing, ready made
 garments, shoes, footwear, boot sports-wear, sports related
 accessories, and other allied/ related products, as also Tags,
 labels, cut-outs, boards, accessories, machinery and allied CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 7 of 30 and cognate items (hereinafter referred to as "the
 impugned goods and business"). It is further alleged that
 the defendants have adopted and started using the

 trademark/ label UNDER ARMOUR and
 punchline/ campaign "I WILL" (hereinafter referred to as
 "impugned trademark/ label") in relation to their impugned
 goods and business. 14. It is further alleged that in last week of October, 2018, the
 plaintiff came across impugned goods and business of the
 defendants bearing impugned trademark/label in
 South-East Delhi area and being aggrieved thereby, the
 plaintiff caused an inquiry in the market, which revealed
 that the defendants had just about in the month of October,
 2018 adopted and started using the impugned trademark/
 label in relation to their impugned goods. 15. Further, it is alleged that the defendants have dishonestly
 and malafidely adopted impugned trademarks/label

 UNDER ARMOUR and punchline/ campaign
 "I WILL" which are visually, structurally identical and/or
 deceptively and confusingly similar to the registered
 trademarks/ label of plaintiff UNDER ARMOUR

 and punchline/ campaign "I WILL", thereby
 causing confusion and deception amongst the unwary
 purchasing public and traders by making them believe that
 the origin of those goods is the plaintiff company. It is also CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 8 of 30 the case of the plaintiff that in fact, the defendants are
 indulging in counterfeiting the impugned goods, which is
 in complete violation of plaintiff's statutory and common
 law right in the said trademark trade name. It has been
 averred that by doing so, the defendants are not only
 damaging the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff
 company by passing off their substandard products as that
 of the plaintiff company but are also causing financial loss
 to the plaintiff company by reaping unfair advantage of the
 repute and distinctive character of the trademark of the
 plaintiff company. 16. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present suit
 against the defendants praying therein, inter alia, that decree
 of permanent injunction may be passed restraining the
 defendants and all acting for and on their behalf from using
 the impugned trademarks/ label UNDER ARMOUR

 and punchline/ campaign "I WILL or any other
 word marks/ trademarks/ labels which may be identical with
 and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said trademark/

 label UNDER ARMOUR and punchline/
 campaign "I WILL in relation to similar goods, thereby
 infringing plaintiff's registered trademark, copyright and
 passing off their products as that of the plaintiff. 17. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 9 of 30 and ex parte order for appointment of local commissioner to
 visit and search the premises of the defendant. After hearing
 counsel of the plaintiff, the said applications were allowed,
 vide common order dated 15-01-2019 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court, thereby granting an ex parte
 ad interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against
 the defendant and Local Commissioner was also appointed
 to visit and search the premises of the defendant with
 certain conditions as mentioned therein. 18. Summons were issued to the defendants in terms of relevant
 orders. Both the defendants put their appearance through
 counsel Sh. Animesh Rastogi, Advocate on 06-3-2019. On
 request, the defendants were directed to file written
 statement within stipulated period of 30 days from the date
 of service and reply to the interim application of the plaintiff
 and after referring the matter to the Mediation Centre, the
 case was adjourned for 03-06-2019 for settlement, if any,
 and in alternative, for arguments on injunction application.
 Despite such specific direction, the defendants failed to file
 written statement and thus, the defence of the defendants
 was struck off and since, none had appeared on behalf of
 defendants despite wait and repeated calls, therefore, they
 were also proceeded against ex parte, vide order dated
 03-06-2019, passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court. 19. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 20-7-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 10 of 30 plaintiff seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra), which was
 allowed vide order dated 30-11-2022 passed by Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court and the defendants were directed
 to file written statement to the amended plaint within 30
 days from the date of said order. However, the defendants
 failed to file any written statement despite grant of
 sufficient time and opportunities. 20. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is that
 defendants chose not to file written statement either to the
 original plaint or to the amended plaint. 21. In support of its case, the plaintiff company has examined
 only one witness i.e. its AR namely Mrs. Meena Bansal as
 PW1. She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- 22. On statement of AR of plaintiff, the plaintiff evidence was
 closed vide order dated 10-10-2023, passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court. However, on 20-1-2024, an
 application u/s 151 CPC was moved by plaintiff seeking
 permission to lead additional evidence on the ground that
 the plaintiff had filed the present suit against the
 defendant, who was arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on the
 basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India as they
 were not aware about the exact constitution of the
 defendants at the time of filing the suit, however, after
 execution of the local commission, they came to know
 about the particulars of the defendants and hence, got
 memo of parties amended with permission of the Court
 and filed amended memo of parties, and also that in
 support of their case, the plaintiff had already examined
 PW-1 Mrs. Meena Bansal by way of affidavit, however, in
 her affidavit in evidence, inadvertently the defendant was
 still shown as "Ashok Kumar" instead of defendant nos.1
 and 2 namely "Armario Clothing and Accessories" and
 "Essa Kazim Fazal Ali Abidi" respectively. The aforesaid
 application was allowed vide order dated 20-1-2024 and
 the plaintiff was permitted to lead additional evidence. In
 terms of said order, the plaintiff led additional evidence of
 PW-1 by way of affidavit (Ex.PW1/B). 23. After the closure of PE on 29-04-2024, ex parte final
 arguments were heard. 24. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 13 of 30 up reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos. 35(b) and 35(d)
 of the amended plaint regarding restraining the defendants
 from disposing off or dealing with their assets and
 rendition of accounts respectively, Accordingly, the
 plaintiff was permitted to give up the said reliefs as prayed
 in Prayer Clause Nos. 35(b) and 35(d) of the amended
 plaint, vide order dated 21-05-2024 and 08-01-2024
 respectively. In view thereof, the suit survives only with
 respect to permanent injunction, delivery up and damages
 to the tune of Rs.3,04,000/-. 25. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF 26. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that the entire
 testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged and
 unrebutted from the side of defendants and therefore, the
 plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed for. In
 support of his submission, Counsel relied upon the
 documents [Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW1/10]. 27. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademarks/labels UNDER ARMOUR are well known
 trademarks of the plaintiff and are registered under various
 classes of the Trade Mark Rules 2002, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date.
 Further, the art works involved in the trademark/label is CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 14 of 30 original artistic work and the plaintiff holds copyright
 therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff spends
 huge amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products and said mark enjoys a huge goodwill and
 reputation in business community and public in general in
 India. Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff relied upon the
 report of Local Commissioner and submitted that Ld.
 Local Commissioner, while executing the commission in
 terms of relevant order passed by this Court, had found
 infringed goods bearing falsified impugned
 trademark/label from the premises of the defendants in
 the presence of defendant no.2 who had claimed himself
 to be one of the partners of firm i.e. defendant no.1,
 which establishes that the defendants were involved in
 the illegal activities. It is further argued by Ld. Counsel
 of plaintiff that Local Commissioner's Report can
 be read in evidence in terms of Order XXVI Rule 10(2) CPC and for this purpose, he also relied upon the
 judgment of our own Hon'ble High Court in case titled
 as " M L Brother LLP v. Mahesh Kumar Bhrualal Tanna " 28. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned
 trademark/label UNDER ARMOUR with punch line 'I
 WILL' as adopted by the defendants, is identical and/ or
 confusingly or deceptively similar to the registered
 trademarks/labels of the plaintiff i.e. UNDER ARMOUR
 with punch line 'I WILL' and thus, same amounts to not
 only committing fraud upon the plaintiff company but CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 15 of 30 also upon the unwary general public, due to which the
 plaintiff company suffers huge monetary loss and its
 goodwill and reputation are also at stake and therefore,
 he urged that the suit may be decreed in favour of
 plaintiff and against the defendants, thereby
 restraining the defendants and all others acting for and on
 their behalf from using the said impugned
 trademark/ label. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 29. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION 30. Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is stated that
 the defendants have been making clandestine and
 surreptitious sales, offering for sale, manufacturing,
 marketing, and are also supplying, purveying, displaying,
 and soliciting, have intention to sell/ solicit, their
 impugned goods and business under the impugned
 trademark/ label in the markets of Lajpat Nagar, Kalkaji,
 Greater Kailash etc. It is further contended that the
 plaintiff's proprietary rights are being prejudicially
 affected or are likely to be so affected due to the
 defendants' impugned activities as they have all the
 intention to use/ sell/ solicit the impugned/ counterfeit
 goods under the impugned trademark/ label in the market
 of Lajpat Nagar, Kalkaji, Greater Kailash etc. Therefore, it CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 16 of 30 is stated that whole or part cause of action has arisen
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court within the
 meaning of S. 20 CPC and thus, this Court has territorial
 jurisdiction to try and entertain the present suit. 31. Further, it is stated that the plaintiff has also been carrying
 on its said goods and business under its said trademarks
 within the jurisdiction of this Court through its website
 www.underarmour.com. Apart from same, the said goods
 of the plaintiff under the said trademark/ label are also
 available through online marketplace like Amazon,
 Flipkart etc., which are interactive in nature and goods can
 be sold, purchased, delivered, within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended that this
 Court further has also territorial jurisdiction to entertain
 and try the present suit within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of
 the Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 32. The PW1 has deposed in her affidavit in evidence on the
 identical lines of the averments made in the plaint, inter
 alia that the plaintiff goods have been available in India
 through its website www.underarmour.co.zen-in as
 plaintiff ships its products in India. Further, apart from the
 sales to the direct customers from their respective shop/
 premises, the defendants are supplying the impugned
 goods bearing the impugned trademark/ label to dealers/
 retailers/ distributors in markets of Lodhi Colony, Lajpat
 Nagar, Greater Kailash etc. who then supply the impugned
 goods bearing the impugned trademark/ label to the CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 17 of 30 various unscrupulous traders and manufacturers of the
 counterfeit products of the plaintiff which eventually
 causes confusion and deception to the consumers at large.
 She further deposed that this Court has territorial
 jurisdiction to try and adjudicate the present suit and has
 referred to the contents of Para no. 33 of the plaint, by
 stating that said contents are not being repeated there for
 the sake of brevity. 33. During the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff
 has clarified that due to inadvertent mistake, it is
 mentioned in the amended plaint as well as in the affidavit
 in evidence of PW-1 that the defendants are supplying the
 impugned goods bearing the impugned trademark/ label to
 dealers/ retailers/ distributors in markets of Lodhi Colony,
 Lajpat Nagar, Greater Kailash etc. which falls within
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Further, Ld. Counsel
 of plaintiff has conceded that the said places do not fall
 within territorial jurisdiction of this Court. However, he
 pointed out from the record that it is specific case of the
 plaintiff that plaintiff's goods have been available in India
 through its website www.underarmour.co.zen-in as
 plaintiff ships its products in India. Besides, the said goods
 of the plaintiff under the said trademark/ label are also
 available through online marketplace like Amazon,
 Flipkart etc., which are interactive in nature and goods can
 be sold, purchased, delivered, within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended that this
 Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 18 of 30 present suit within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of the
 Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 34. In support of his contention, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has
 drawn attention of this court towards documents/
 screenshots, which were duly proved by PW1 as
 Ex.PW1/8, as per which it is duly shown that goods of the
 plaintiff are available on e-market place like Amazon and
 Flipkart, which are stated to be interactive in nature. 35. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendants have neither filed written
 statement nor have chosen to cross-examine PW1. 36. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the impugned
 goods under the impugned trademark as well as goods
 under the registered trademark of the plaintiff
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, as stipulated
 in the said judgments delivered by Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court. 37. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the
 above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact that
 evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion that
 at least part of cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this
 Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the
 suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 38. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 39. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- Specific averment ought to be made that there are no
 disclaimers imposed on the mark and the mark stands
 renewed. Any licenses and assignments ought to be
 pleaded. (iii) xxxx (iv) In the case of (ii), the party ought to file the LPC
 prior to the commencement of the trial, if any aspect
 of the trademarks registration is being disputed by the
 opposite side" DAMAGES: Thus, it is established that the defendants were stocking and
 selling/ passing off the infringed goods bearing impugned
 trademark/ label UNDER ARMOUR which is identical
 and/or deceptively similar to plaintiff's trademark / label
 UNDER ARMOUR, as that of the plaintiff's products
 thereby causing wrongful loss to plaintiff company and
 would have earned illegal profits. Further, if the seized
 infringed goods would have gone to the hands of the
 consumer/ general public, the reputation/goodwill of the CS (COMM.)/389/2019 Page 27 of 30 plaintiff company would have gone down in the eyes of
 consumer/ general public as infringed goods were of average
 quality and were not up to the quality which is claimed by
 the plaintiff company. In the case in hand, the defendants did
 not show up and participate in the proceedings in order to
 deprive the plaintiff to the benefit of rendition of accounts.
 Accordingly, keeping in view the overall facts and
 circumstances of the case including the quantam of infringed
 goods bearing impugned trademark / label as found by Ld.
 Local Commissioner while executing the commission and
 the relevant averments appearing in Para No. : 31 of the
 amended plaint to the effect that the defendants had adopted
 and started using and soliciting the impugned trade mark/
 label in relation to their impugned goods and business in the
 month of October, 2018 whereas the present suit has been
 filed in the month of January, 2019, the Court is of the
 opinion that the plaintiff company is entitled to exemplary
 damages quantified as Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh
 only). It is so ordered accordingly. RELIEF: 53. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 54. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance.