Argued by: 2.             The facts, in brief, are that the complainant availed of the Credit Card facility of Opposite Party No.1 and had been paying all the dues/out-standings, well in time, against the bills raised.  It was stated that after passage of time, the complainant came across with certain unknown transactions committed through her Credit Card inasmuch as certain online shopping was done by someone from Opposite Party No.2. It was further stated that the complainant immediately informed them that on 29.7.2012, two transactions for online recharge service at Gurgaon for Rs.100/-, one online shopping with Opposite Party No.2 for Rs.15,500/- and on 31.7.2012 another online shopping with Opposite Party No.2 was done for Rs.37,990/-.  It was further stated that, as such, a total sum of Rs.53,590/- was spent through the credit card of the complainant (Annexure C-1). It was further stated that the complainant kept on representing her case to Opposite Party No.2, with a request, not to deliver the goods at the address given by such unscrupulous person and also requested them to give details of billing address of such person.  It was further stated that the complainant also filed a complaint before Opposite Party No.1, but no action was taken.  It was further stated that, on the other hand, a feedback was given by Opposite Party No.2 requesting the complainant to lodge the complaint with Opposite Party No.1, so that charge back could be filed against such transactions. It was further stated that the complainant also lodged a claim with Opposite Party No.1 (Annexure C-3). 3.             It was further stated that despite all efforts made by the complainant, nothing concrete could be achieved; instead Opposite Party No.1 was still asking to pay the amount as per bill (Annexures C-4 & C-5).  Even after a lapse of more than one year of such non-bonafide transactions, no action was taken by the Opposite Parties.  It was further stated that the complainant was not obliged to pay any amount over and above she spent inasmuch as she was not supposed to pay a single penny qua such fraudulent transactions. It was further stated that even after the lapse of more than one year of such fraudulent transactions, no action had been taken by the Opposite Parties on the dispute form submitted by the complainant. It was further stated that the Opposite Parties were sitting over the issue and causing mental trauma to the complainant by sending exorbitant bills besides regular telephone calls from their tele-executive for payment of outstanding. It was further stated that the complainant was being unduly and unnecessarily harassed, in the matter, on one pretext or the other and without any such reason and cause, she had been pressurized to pay the outstanding. It was further stated that the conduct of the Opposite Parties clearly reflected malicious intentions and a fraud played upon the poor complainant and, as such, possibility of any foul play on the part of Opposite Party No.1 could not be ruled out. It was further stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Parties, amounted to deficiency, in rendering service, as also indulgence into unfair trade practice. 4.             When the grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left with no alternative, a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter to be called as the Act only),  was filed, seeking directions to Opposite Party No.1 to expunge Rs.55,030/- from credit card account with interest charged on it; pay Rs.90,000/- as compensation for unfair trade practices and deficiency of service. 5.             Opposite Party No.1, in its reply, admitted that the complainant had availed of the facility of credit card, from it, and had been utilizing its services. .  It was stated that the complainant was utilizing the credit card issued by Opposite Party No.1 and she was quite regular in making the online transactions through her credit card, but did not make regular payments.  It was further stated that Opposite Party No.1 had paid for all the purchases made by the complainant online to the respective sellers, but she had not paid the amount of Rs.85,945.48 being her outstanding balance.  It was denied that any fraudulent transactions had been committed through the credit card of the complainant, by anyone else.  It was further stated that the complainant herself had made the said transactions. It was further stated that the intimation about the said transactions was admitted to have been given by the complainant.  It was further stated that the statement of account clearly showed that the complainant had made a number of purchases through her credit card and now she was denying the payment thereof.  It was also pleaded that the online 

 

 

 

 

transactions required a password and the cardholder was the only person who had the knowledge of the same and hence it was clear that the complainant had done the online transactions and now she was denying this fact.  It was further stated that the purchases were made by the complainant and she was bound to pay the outstanding amounts towards such usage.  It was further stated that neither there was any deficiency, in rendering service, on the part of Opposite Party No.1, nor it indulged into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments, were denied, being wrong. 6.             Opposite Party No.2, in its reply, stated that the complaint qua it, was not maintainable.  It was further stated that the complainant was not a consumer qua Opposite Party No.2. It was further stated that the very complaint filed by the complainant was about misuse of her credit card and this in no way constituted unfair trade practice by Opposite Party No.2.  It was further stated that Opposite Party No.2 operates its trading facility platform over the internet under the domain name www.flipkart.com and developed a website under the said name and was engaged in the business of online marketplace.  It was further stated that the very question of misuse of credit card was subject of investigation and the complainant should have preferred a complaint, before the law enforcement agency instead of filing a consumer complaint. It was further stated that neither there was any deficiency, in rendering service, on the part of Opposite Party No.2, nor it indulged into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments, were denied, being wrong. 7.             Despite service, none put in appearance, on behalf of Opposite Party No.3, before the District Forum and, as such, it was proceeded against exparte vide order dated 22.10.2013. 8.             The complainant filed replication, wherein she reiterated all the averments, contained in the complaint, and repudiated the same, contained in the written version of Opposite Party No.1. 9.             The parties led evidence, in support of their case. 10.           After hearing the Counsel for the parties, and, on going through the evidence, and record of the case, the District Forum, allowed the complaint, against Opposite Parties No.1 & 3 only, in the manner, referred to, in the opening para of the instant order. 11.           Feeling aggrieved, the instant appeal, has been filed by the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 and 3. 12.           Respondent No.1/complainant, on notice of the appeal, was served and put in appearance through Counsel on 25.05.2015. 13.           Since the complaint qua respondent No.2, which was Opposite Party No.2 in the District Forum, was dismissed vide the impugned order, the service of respondent No.2 (Opposite Party No.2) was dispensed with, for the purpose of this appeal vide order dated 22.04.2015. 14.           We have heard the Counsel for the parties, and have gone through the evidence and record of the case. 15.           The Counsel for the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3 submitted that the transactions, in dispute, were carried out by respondent No.1/complainant, which could not have been carried out, without giving the unique password, which was generated by her (complainant). It was further submitted that since the unique password was only known to respondent No.1/complainant, the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, could not be held liable for the same. It was further submitted that respondent No.1/complainant, had been utilizing the credit card for making online purchases and, as was evident from Annexure C-1, she (complainant) made transactions on 30.06.2012 in respect of dining plus and on 26.07.2012 for the purpose of making online recharge. It was further submitted that the District Forum failed to point out 

any deficiency on the part of the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3 vis-à-vis the transactions in dispute. It was further submitted that the District Forum also failed to consider that respondent No.1/complainant was using the credit card, in question, for the purpose of making purchases through internet. It was further submitted that, in the complaint, the complainant herself specifically mentioned in Annexure C-3 that transaction made on 30.06.2012 was specifically done through dining plus official named Pritam Ashish from mobile No.(09654960582. It was further submitted that it was the case of respondent No.1/complainant, that the transactions were made by certain persons, to whom she divulged the information in respect of the card, which was also evident from the entry, made in the statement (Annexure C-1). It was further submitted that it was not the case of respondent No.1/complainant, that the credit card was permitted to be used subsequent to the information having been given to the appellants, in respect of alleged fraudulent transactions, by filling in the dispute form (Annexure C-3). It was further submitted that as the credit card was utilized for the purposes of making purchases, the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, were entitled to claim their dues. It was further submitted that it was nobody's case that there was any request for blocking the card prior to the transactions being made. It was further submitted that respondent No.2 informed respondent No.1/complainant that she was required to lodge a complaint with the concerned Police Station.  It was further submitted that the District Forum failed to consider that respondent No.1/complainant intimated respondent No.2, not to deliver the goods. It was further submitted that inspite of that, the transaction was allowed to be completed. It was further submitted that the appeal be accepted and the order be set aside. 16.           The Counsel for respondent No.1/complainant submitted that neither the transactions, in dispute, were made by respondent No.1/complainant nor she disclosed the unique identification number to anybody else. It was further submitted that the online transactions were fraudulently made through her credit card and she was not liable to pay any amount for the same. It was further submitted that the order passed by the District Forum, being just and legal, be maintained. 17.          Admittedly, the Credit Card, bearing no. 4317 5750 5901 1987, was issued by the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, in favour of the complainant. The grievance of the complainant, was to the effect, that   online transactions done on 29.07.2012, one for online recharge service at Gurgaon for Rs.100/-; second for online shopping with Opposite Party No.2 for Rs.15,500/- and again online shopping done on 31.7.2012 with Opposite Party No.2 for Rs.37,990/-, totaling Rs.53,590/- were not done by her but somebody else fraudulently made these transactions through her credit card. No doubt, on the advice of Opposite Party No.2 vide email (Annexure C-2), to lodge a complaint with the Bank or with the Cyber Crime; the complainant vide email dated 01.08.2012 requested not to deliver the goods and provide the bill address as well as the flipkart account information. It is evident from Annexure C-1, which is SBI card monthly statement (Account Summary) of respondent No.1/complainant, that she was in the practice of using the credit card for online shopping. As per Annexure C-1, an amount of Rs.73,086/- was outstanding against her (respondent No.1/complainant). It is further evident from record that in the Dispute Form (Annexure C-3), the complainant in the column meant for "Other Comments", mentioned "Transactions made through Dining Plus official - named Pritam - Ashish from mobile No.0965496582" and while doing so, she disputed the transactions done on 29.07.2012 and 31.07.2012. 18.           Clearly, respondent No.1/complainant in Annexure C-3 has admitted that she made a transaction with Dining Plus officials, namely, Pritam & Ashish and also furnished her mobile number. This disclosure on the part of respondent No.1/complainant in Annexure C-3, duly stands corroborated with her Credit Card Account Summary (Annexure C-1), wherein as against the date 30.06.2012, she made payment of in the sum of Rs.5,499/- to Dining Plus Mumbai In. through her credit card. Respondent No.1/complainant herself admitted in Dispute Form (Annexure C-3) that the said transaction was done through the officials of the said merchandise. Since, respondent No.1/complainant did not take proper and adequate measures to safeguard the Credit Card pin, the possibility of disclosing the same to some of the official(s) of the Dining Plus or somebody else, could not be ruled out. As such, the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, could not be held liable for deficiency, in rendering service. 19.          Not only this, respondent No.1/complainant was responsible for security of the Credit Card, and was required to take all steps, ensuring that the same (Credit Card) was not misused. It was the duty of respondent No.1/complainant, to take proper measures, to safeguard the custody of the Credit Card and PIN and not to divulge the same, to an unauthorized person, without verifying his credentials and identity.. The Credit Card could only be used, if the customer inputs his personal four digit identification number, which is selected by him/her (customer), and not by the Bank. However, in the interest of security, respondent No.1/complainant was required to retain his PIN code, in her memory, so that no one else is privy to this information. The reverse of the Credit Card has a magnetic strip and white strip for signatures of the Cardholder. The magnetic strip contains the Cardholder's details. This Card can be used to gain entry into the ATM enclosure, by swiping it, in the access lodge. In other words, unless a person is in possession of the relevant Credit Card, and knows the four digit PIN Code, the same (Credit Card) cannot be used and operated. As a matter of further precaution, in case, the PIN code is entered wrongly, thrice, in succession, the ATM will swallow the Credit Card itself or cancel it permanently. Respondent No.1/complainant was in exclusive knowledge of the four digit personal identification number of the said Card. Until and unless, she (Respondent No.1/complainant) disclosed the four digit personal identification number to an unauthorized person, to whom she allegedly handed over the Credit Card, that person could not operate the same, and withdraw the amount or make online transactions/purchases. It is, thus, proved from the evidence, on record, that respondent No.1/complainant by disclosing the four digit PIN number, to an unauthorized person, was herself responsible for the disputed transactions.. For the fault of respondent No.1/complainant, the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3 could not be held liable.  In State  Bank of  India  Vs. K.K.Bhalla, Revision Petition No.3182 of 2008, decided on 7.4.2011, the National Commission held as under:- 20. In view of the observations made in State Bank of India Vs. K. K. Bhalla (supra) and the position discussed in the foregoing paras, the District Forum erred in coming to the conclusion, that the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3 were deficient, in rendering proper service, to respondent No.1/complainant. 21.           No other point, was urged, by the Counsel for the parties. 22.           In view of the above discussion, it is held that the District Forum, erred in partly allowing the complaint qua the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, and the order passed by it qua the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, suffers from illegality, warranting the interference of this Commission. 23.           For the reasons recorded above, the appeal, filed by the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 & 3, is accepted, with no order as to cost. The order of the District Forum is set aside. Consequently, the complaint stands dismissed with no order as to cost. 24.          Certified copies of this order, be sent to the parties, free of charge. 25.          The file be consigned to Record Room, after completion

 

Pronounced. June   15  , 201 5.                                            Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)]

 

PRESIDENT

 

 

 

Sd/- (DEV RAJ)

 

MEMBER

 

Ad