SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Unpopular opinion: Advocating for cruel punishments (or) speedy death penalty for rape is stupid
DATE: 2020-09-17
SCORE: 366
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/iuhxlm/unpopular_opinion_advocating_for_cruel/

--- POST TEXT ---

1. If death is the preferred punishment for rape as well as murder, violent rapists have less incentive to leave the victim alive.
2. Most rapes aren't committed by random intruders. The vast, vast majority of abuse victims, know their abuser well. Marital rape exists. Child sexual abuse exists. The more cruel and idiotic the punishments get, the less likely it will be for the majority of victims to come forward about it.
3. Our legal system in a lot of places is corrupt. Innocent people will be punished in a system this big. That much is unavoidable. But the punishment shouldn't be horrible enough that someone wrongly convicted cannot ever recover from it.
4. Not all rapists are born with an evil switch turned on in their brains. Some criminals have shitty, horrible lives. A good percentage of sexual abusers, were sexually abused themselves and they're expressing their emotions in an extreme way. Some rapists were brutally abused since childhood. It sucks but these people need help and treatment, not death.
5. Mobs in this country have the thinking capacity of a wombat. Mob mentality is incredibly stupid and based on emotions. If all it takes for someone's life to be ruined or for someone to be lynched outside the law is for the public to believe he's a rapist, then people in power are going obviously going to try to portray their enemies as rapists. Like how Mohammed Zubair, who ran a news site against the current government, was arrested on false charges of child abuse. The courts scoffed at it, but that doesn't stop sanghis from using it as hate fuel.
6. Extra judicial killings, like what happened last year in Andhra, where 4 alleged rapists were shot in a fake encounter, unfortunately elicit happy responses from the Indian public. There is zero evidence of their guilt. For all we know, the police could've shot 4 random poor, lower caste kids and closed the case.
7. Yes. Our justice system is broken. Yes, it takes ages to process one conviction. No, that does not mean going outside the justice system is a solution. If you suggest that approach, you have zero reason to feel good about yourself because you help no one.

&amp;#x200B;

Look. I know this is a topic that invokes a lot of emotion for some and in a few others, it seems to evoke a revenge/cruelty response.

There is ONE benefit to calling for the lynching/murdering a rape accused/convict. It strokes your ego. It makes you feel less guilty about doing nothing useful to solve the problem. That's it. It doesn't help you. It doesn't help the victims. It doesn't help the country.

The solution to increased rapes is not rocket science

1. Advocate for massive police reforms. Fire goonda police en masse and hire educated, sensible people. How will rape victims have safety if they're afraid policemen will rape them if they go to the station?
2. Slap anyone across the face if you see them blame the victim. Instead of braying for rapists' blood like devils, post on social media about showing compassion to the victims. They're the ones who no one cares about.
3. Instead of whining about the broken justice system, do the slightest possible improvement you can to try fix it. Its all we have.
4. Fix the broken sex education system and teach children about consent.
5. Fix the broken mental health system and intervene in schools

We all get rape makes you angry. That anger isn't an excuse to advocate for whatever the heck you want at the expense of the actual victim's well being.