BRIEF REASONS FOR THE DECISION OF THE CASE:- 01. The facts of the case of the prosecution in brief are that the
complainant Mr. Amit got registered an FIR for offence of theft of
his E-rickshaw bearing chasis no. SBGO-1069 colour green and
Rs. 700/- on 30.10.2015 at about 02.00PM from Kolhapur Road,
Kamla Nagar, Delhi. As per the complaint, the complainant was
ferrying 05 persons in his rickshaw from Kings Way Camp Chowk

State Vs. Tarun Digitally
 signed by Page no. 1/11 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 02. Pursuant to cognizance, the accused was summoned. Upon
appearance of the accused, complete set of charge sheet and other
documents were supplied to the accused person. After hearing
arguments, charge for offence punishable under section 379 / 34 IPC was framed against the accused on 13.09.2018 by the Ld
Predecessor of the court, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. 03. The statement u/s. 294 Cr.PC has been recorded, wherein
the accused had admitted the copy of FIR, certificate u/s. 65-B Indian Evidence Act, DD number 12A and TIP proceedings
aongwith its certificates, details u/s 65-B and fact of deposit of
case property in Malkhana. Accordingly, witness cited at serial no

State Vs. Tarun Digitally signed by Page no. 2/11 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 4 ,5 and 7 in the list of witnesses were dropped as a witness from
the list witnesses by the Ld JMFC 05, Central, THC vide order
dated 03.05.2024. 04. The prosecution had cited total 08 witnesses in the present
matter. The only public witness cited by the prosecution is the
complainant himself and the rest of the witnesses are either police
witnesses or formal witnesses. The main witness of the
prosecution and the only public witness namely Mr Amit who is
also the complainant in the present case was summoned on several
occasions. However, he remained absent despite service on several
occasions. Considering all the above and that sufficient efforts had
been made to procure the presence of the witness, Mr. Amit was
dropped from the list witnesses by the Ld JMFC 05, Central, THC
vide order dated 05.07.2024. 05. File was received on 09.06.2025 from the court of Ld
JMFC-05, Central, THC, Delhi pursuant to transfer of PS Roop
Nagar to the newly created court of the undersigned vide order no
16/DHC/Gaz-IIB/G-7/VI.E2(a)2025 dated 30.05.2025 of the
Hon'ble High Court, Delhi. 06. The IO/SI Rambir is the second Investigating Officer and
he was examined as PW1 and he deposed about the investigation
conducted by him in the present case. He deposed that he had
apprehended the accused on the basis of information of secret
informer, prepared arrest memo and personal search memo,
moved an application for TIP of the accused which was refused by
the accused, completed the investigation and filed the charge sheet State Vs. Tarun Page no. 3/11 Digitally
 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 07. PW-2 is Inspector Praveen Kumar who was the first
Investigating Officer of the case and he deposed about receipt of
DD Number 12A, recorded the statement of the complainant,
prepared Rukka and got the FIR registered. He was duly cross
examined by the defence counsel. 08. PW-3 is Ct. Anil who deposed that he was on patrolling
duty on 01.11.2015, and he went alongwith the IO to apprehend
the accused and he deposed about the investigation conducted by
the IO and about his role in the investigation. He was duly cross
examined by the defence counsel. 09. In the present case, since the complainant/eyewitness of
the case could not be examined as he did not appear despite
service, thus, no fruitful purpose will be served by examining other
witnesses as they are formal in nature and even if their testimonies
were taken together, those will not establish the guilt of the
accused. Considering this position, PE was closed vide separate
order passed today, as recording of any further prosecution
evidence in the present case would result into wastage of judicial
time, money, resources and will also cause unnecessary oppression
to the accused who have anyhow faced the ordeal of the trial in the
present case for around 05 years. The request of the learned APP
for State to examine all the prosecution witnesses was declined as
no useful purpose would be served by examining the rest of the
witnesses, who are formal in nature. In this regard reference may
be made to a Division Bench judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High

State Vs. Tarun Digitally signed by Page no. 4/11 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 10. Right to speedy trial is constitutionally guaranteed
fundamental right of the accused person. It has been held in P.Ramchandra Rao vs. State of Karnataka AIR 2022 SC 1856 that
the court should exercise its power available under Criminal
Procedure Code to give effect to the right of speedy trial to the
accused. Similar observations were made in Pankaj Kumar vs.
State of Mahrashtra AIR 2008 SC 3057. Furthermore, in Satish
Mehra vs. Delhi Administration & Abr . 1996 JCC 507 Hon'ble
Supreme Court has held that valuable time of the court should not
be wasted merely for formal completion of procedure when there
is no chance of the trial culminating in conviction. 11. Statement u/s. 313 Cr.PC of accused was dispensed with as
nothing incriminating came on record. ARGUMENTS: 12. I have heard the Ld. Sub APP for the state the accused. I
 Digitally State Vs. Tarun Page no. 5/11 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 13. It is submitted by the accused that he has been charged for
the offences punishable under sections 379 / 34 IPC but the
prosecution has failed to examine the complainant and in the
absence of the testimony of complainant, there is nothing on
record to connect the accused with the offences charged. It is also
submitted that in the present case the best evidence i.e. the
complainant and the stolen E-rickshaw were not produced before
the court. He, therefore, requested that the accused be acquitted of
the charge levelled against them. 14. Per contra, it was argued by the learned APP for the State
that accused was found in possession of a stolen property i.e., the
E-rickshaw and if a person is found in possession of property
recently stolen, and of which he can give no reasonable account,
court can presume that he is a thief. According to the learned APP
for the State recent unexplained possession alone may be sufficient
to raise a permissible inference of guilt. 15. Upon this, it was argued on behalf of the accused that
presumption under the aforesaid section does not arise unless
ownership of articles, theft and recent possession are established
by the prosecution. He submitted that before a presumption under section 114 , Illustration (a) Indian Evidence Act can arise, it must
be proved that the goods found in possession of the accused have
been stolen. The onus of proof regarding these aspects never shifts,
it lies on the prosecution. 16. In every criminal trial, the identity of the malefactor must
be established by proof beyond reasonable doubt. Indeed, the first
duty of the prosecution is not to prove the crime but to prove the
identity of the offender, for even if the commission of the crime
can be established, there can be no conviction without proof of
identity of the offender beyond reasonable doubt. 17. Onus is, thus, on the prosecution to prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the person facing the trial is, in fact, the same
person who committed the offence. 18. The present FIR was lodged for the allegation of theft
against unknown persons. Accused was implicated on later on the
basis of the alleged recovery made by police officer. In the case at
hand, as the accused was not apprehended from the spot of theft,
hence his identity was in issue. Thus, it was for the prosecution to
prove that the said E-rickshaw recovered from the accused
belonged to the complainant, was stolen by the accused or that the
same was deliberately retained and recovered from his possession. 19. The complainant alone, who was the only cited public
witness to the occurrence of theft, could have testified about the
incident. However, he could not be examined as prosecution
witnesses. Thus, the best evidence for establishing the theft and
the nature of recovered property as as 'stolen property' is not
available in the present case. The witnesses cited by the
prosecution were not present at the time of theft. Rest of the
witnesses are formal in nature and the identity of the accused
cannot be established from their testimonies. 20. As far as incrimination of the accused on the basis of
admission of FIR is concerned, I am of the considered opinion that,
when the first informant is not examined, even if the First
Information Report is admitted and exhibited, all that can be read
from it is the fact that FIR was in fact recorded at the date and time
mentioned therein but the contents of the FIR cannot be used to
hold the accused guilty of the charge. 21. The complainant alone, who was the only cited public
witness to the occurrence of theft, could have testified about the
incident. However, he could not be examined as prosecution
witnesses. Thus, the best evidence for establishing the theft and
the nature of recovered property as as 'stolen property' is not
available in the present case. Despite record of presence of public
witnesses at the spot, no public witness has been examined. PW1
and PW2 are Investigating Officers and PW-3 was the
accompanying police officer of the case and they have only
deposed about the investigation done by them in the present case.
However, they were not present on the date of the incident of theft.
Therefore, they alone can't establish the case of the prosecution.
Rest of the witnesses are formal in nature and the identity of the
accused cannot be established from their testimonies, in as much
as, the alleged theft was not done in their presence. Thus, in
absence of direct evidence of theft, allegation u/s 379 IPC remains
unproved. 22. I shall now examine whether the possession of the stolen
property from the accused has been proved or not. In the present
case, the recovery of the E-rickshaw has been shown on the basis
that accused was using it. The stolen property i.e; the E-rickshaw is

State Vs. Tarun Digitally Page no. 8/11
 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 23. As far as presumption under section 114 of the Act is
concerned, I am of the considered opinion that the presumption
permitted by section 114 of the Act does not arise until the
prosecution has established two facts; namely, the ownership of
the articles in question and the theft of that articles. If it is proved
that a theft was committed and that soon after it was committed,
the stolen property was recovered from the possession of the
accused, presumption can be raised under section 114 , Illustration (a) of the Indian Evidence Act that the accused is either the thief or
the receiver of the property knowing it to be stolen. 24. Illustration (a) of section 114 , Evidence Act runs as
follows: 25. It is elementary that there can be no offence of dishonestly
receiving stolen property unless the property which is alleged to be
the subject of such receiving, answers the description of "stolen
property" defined under section 410 IPC 26. In the case in hand, the prosecution has miserably failed to
prove that the E-rickshaw was stolen from the custody of
complainant. Thus, neither the ownership of the E-rickshaw nor its
theft was established. 27. To prove its case, prosecution has cited as many as 08
witnesses. However, the first informant/rightful owner of the
property is not examined by the prosecution. Therefore, in the
absence of testimony of complainant, the recovery of the E-
rickshaw from the accused does not connect him with the crime as
no evidence is adduced by the prosecution to show that the said E-
rickshaw had, in fact, been stolen from the possession of the
complainant or that the same belonged to him. The factum of theft
could have been proved only by the complainant. The theft of the
E-rickshaw itself has not been proved due to non-examination of
complainant. Obviously in such a scenario the E-rickshaw, though
allegedly recovered from the possession of accused, is not proved
to be a stolen property as defined under section 410 IPC. Until and
unless the case property is proved to be stolen property, which is a

State Vs. Tarun Digitally signed Page no. 10/11 by HIMANSHI
 TYAGI
 HIMANSHI
 Date: basic requirement, offence punishable under section 379 / 34 IPC
cannot be proved against the accused. Therefore, I am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has failed to prove its case
against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 28. For the aforementioned reasons, the identity of the accused
as the perpetrator of the offence could not be established beyond
reasonable doubt. In the absence of proof beyond reasonable doubt
as to the identity of the culprit, the accused's constitutional right to
be presumed innocent until the contrary is proved is not overcome,
and he is entitled to an acquittal, though his innocence may be
doubted. The constitutional presumption of innocence guaranteed
to every individual is of primary importance, and the conviction of
the accused must rest not on the weakness of the defence he put up
but on the strength of the evidence for the prosecution. 29. In light of the above mentioned reasons, the foregoing
discussion and in the absence of incriminating evidence on record,
I hold that the prosecution has failed to discharge the onus of
proving guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, accused Tarun s/o Sh. Rakesh Kumar stands
acquitted of the offences charged i.e. u/s. 379/34 IPC . Accused to
furnish bail bonds in compliance of Section 481 BNSS (u/s 437-A Cr.PC ). The Judgment contains 11 pages and each page has been signed
by the undersigned. Digitally signed
 HIMANSHI by HIMANSHI
 TYAGI
 TYAGI
Pronounced in open Court on Date: 2025.08.02
 16:37:39 +0530

02.08.2025 (Himanshi Tyagi)
 Metropolitan Magistrate-03
 Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi State Vs. Tarun Page no. 11/11