Heard in physical mode. The present Civil Writ Petition under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India has been filed for quashing the letter dated 14.09.2021

 (Annexure P-4) whereby the services of the petitioner have been terminated

 for having been found to have been involved in commission of cheating,

 forgery, dishonesty, embezzlement of money, misappropriation of funds and

 fraud. Brief facts relevant to the present lis are that the petitioner was

 appointed as Clerk with the respondent-University on contract basis vide

 order dated 17.09.2012 (Annexure P-1) through proper channel upon the

 recommendation of the Selection Committee with the approval of the Vice

 Chancellor. The term of the petitioner continued with the respondent-

YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
 University from time to time and his services were continued on ad hoc
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 2 basis. The last extension on ad hoc basis was from 24.05.2021 to

 23.11.2021. Vide impugned order dated 14.09.2021(Annexure P-4) the

 services of the petitioner were terminated. The said order reads as under: Learned counsel for the petitioner would contend that the

 services of the petitioner have been terminated by a stigmatic and

 non-speaking order. It is further the contention of learned counsel for the

 petitioner that recommendations of the Committee relied upon in the

 impugned order (Annexure P-4) have not seen the light of the day. It is

 further contended by learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner

 was neither called upon nor any enquiry was ever conducted with regard to

 his role before passing the impugned order of termination. It is further the contention of learned counsel for the petitioner

 that in it's written statement the respondent-University has relied upon a FIR
YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 3 No.0155 dated 01.08.2021 under Sections 406 , 409 , 381 , 419 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 registered at Police

 Station Urban Estate, District Patiala. However, it has also clearly been

 stated in the same written statement that the role of the petitioner in the said

 scam, forgery, embezzlement, fraud and cheating is being probed by the

 Police. According to counsel for the petitioner, at the time of termination

 ofservices of the petitioner and at the time of filing the writ petition, the

 petitioner was not named in the FIR. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further pointed out that

 though in para 4 of the preliminary submissions in the written statement it

 has been mentioned that the petitioner had appeared before the Inquiry

 Committee and admitted in writing regarding his participation in the alleged

 scam, cheating, embezzlement and fraud, however, the fact is that he never

 appeared before any Inquiry Committee and in fact no Inquiry Committee

 was ever constituted. It has further been pointed out by learned counsel for

 the petitioner that even with the written statement no report of the Inquiry

 Committee has been appended. The reliance of the respondent-University on

 the alleged admission made by the petitioner i.e. Annexure R-2/2 is also

 neither here nor there inasmuch as it is specifically stated by the petitioner in

 the said statement that he had never received a single rupee at any point of

 time and that the matter may be got inquired into and his role be probed. Learned counsel for the respondent-University has contended

 that the petitioner has now been nominated in the FIR. He is, however, not in

 a position to deny the fact that the petitioner has been nominated in the FIR

 only after the passing of the interim order dated 24.09.2021 by this Court. It

 has further been contended by learned counsel for the respondent-University
YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 4 that there is a clear admission by the petitioner in his statement Annexure

 R-2/2 regarding his role. However, learned counsel for the respondent-

 University has not produced before this Court the alleged recommendations

 of the Committee referred to in the impugned termination order (Annexure

 P-4) nor any Inquiry Report nor any order passed by the Vice Chancellor.

 Learned counsel for the respondent-University has further contended that

 after the passing of the interim order dated 24.09.2021 by this Court the

 petitioner was asked to join the duties, however, he did not join the service

 and, in fact, has not done so till date. In response to the arguments raised by learned counsel for the

 respondent-University, Mr. Kalra, learned counsel for the petitioner, has

 stated that after the passing of order dated 24.09.2021 by this Court a

 complaint was made by the respondent-University and the petitioner was

 nominated in the FIR and his application for anticipatory bail is pending and

 that is the reason why he could not join his services. Heard. In the present case the admitted facts are that vide impugned

 order dated 14.09.2021 (Annexure P-4) the services of the petitioner have

 been terminated. The said order is a stigmatic and non-speaking order

 inasmuch as it is stated therein that "Sh. Yogesh Kumar, Clerk (Ad-hoc),

 R.T.I. Cell, was found to have been involved in commission of cheating,

 forgery, dishonesty, embezzlement of money, misappropriation of funds and

 fraud ...". The respondent-University has not placed on the record any

 Inquiry Report to which reference has been made in the written statement

 which could justify the stigmatic wording of the impugned termination order

 (Annexure P-4). The written statement is also silent about even the date of
YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 5 the Inquiry Report or the member(s) of the Inquiry Committee. Further,

 while in the impugned order (Annexure P-4) it is stated that "Keeping in

 view the recommendations made by the Committee constituted by the Vice-

 Chancellor to investigate the case of misappropriation of money with fake

 salary/fellowship bills in the University, as per the orders of the Vice-

 Chancellor ..." no order passed by the Vice Chancellor has been brought on

 record. If there was a report by the Inquiry Committee and an order passed

 by the Vice Chancellor, the respondent-University ought to have placed the

 same on the record. The non-production of these material documents by the

 respondent-University casts a cloud on the stand taken by it. Further, the

 statement of the petitioner (Annexure R-2/2) relied upon by the respondent-

 University is dated 26.07.2021 while the FIR (Annexure R-2/1) lodged

 regarding the incident is dated 01.08.2021. There is no mention of this

 statement (Annexure R-2/2) in the FIR or the petitioner being named in the

 said FIR. The counsel for the respondent-University could not explain why

 the so-called admission statement by the petitioner was not mentioned in the

 FIR and why the petitioner was not named therein. Further, the so-called

 admission statement (Annexure R-2/2) also does not bear the signatures of

 any of the members of the Committee and is signed by the petitioner alone. It is well settled that if a termination order is punitive and

 stigmatic in nature, even if the employee concerned is a temporary employee

 or holding the post on probation, his dismissal or removal would warrant a

 regular inquiry and full-fledged compliance of natural justice. Even during

 probation, termination of services by a stigmatic and non-speaking order

 cannot be sustained. YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 6 Learned counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the judgment

 of Hon'ble the Supreme Court in " V.P. Ahuja Vs. State of Punjab " was reviewed by this Court in a recent decision in Dipti

 Prakash Banerjee v. Satyendra Nath Bose National

 Centre for Basic Sciences, Calcutta & others, (1999)3

 SCC 60 : AIR 1999 Supreme Court 983 : JT 1999(1) SC

 396 : 1999(1) SCT 861 (SC). This decision fully covers

 the instant case as well, particularly as in this case, the

 order impugned is stigmatic on the face of it" He was put on probation. Indisputably, the period of

 probation was required to be completed upon rendition

 of satisfactory service. Only in the event of

 unsatisfactory performance by the employee, the

 termination of probation would have been held to be

 justified. It is, however, well-known that when the

 foundation for such an order is not the unsatisfactory

 performance on the part of the employee but overt acts

 amounting to misconduct, an opportunity of hearing to

 the concerned employee is imperative. In other words, if

 the employee is found to have committed a misconduct,

 although an order terminating probation would appear

 to be innocuous on its face, the same would be vitiated,

 if in effect and substance it is found to be stigmatic in

 nature." Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied upon the

 judgment of this Court in " Sunita Rani Vs. State of Haryana and others " Further, reliance has been placed upon the judgment of this

 Court in " Sukhdev Singh Vs. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak

 Committee " [2017(1) SCT 476] wherein it has been held as under: In view of the facts of the present case and the law laid down,

 this Court has no hesitation in holding that the impugned order of

 termination dated 14.09.2021 (Annexure P-4) is a stigmatic order and could

 not have been passed without following the principles of natural justice.

 Though much has been said about the so called recommedations of the
YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh CWP-19461-2021 (O&M) 9 Committee and the Inquiry Report, neither of them have been produced till

 date before this Court. Even today the learned counsel for the respondent-

 University was not in a position to make a statement regarding the existence

 of any such Committee recommendations or Inquiry Report qua the

 petitioner.From the record produced before this Court and the attendant

 circumstances of the present case it is clear that the real foundation for the

 order of termination of the petitioner was the alleged act of misconduct and

 therefore the impugned termination order would amount to termination of

 service by way of punishment and in absence of any enquiry the same is

 liable to be struck down. Accordingly, the present writ petition is allowed and the

 impugned termination order dated 14.09.2021 (Annexure P-4) is hereby

 quashed. Consequential benefits, if found due, shall be released to the

 petitioner in accordance with law. Needless to say that the respondent-University would always be

 at liberty to pass a fresh order, in accordance with law, after complying with

 the principles of natural justice. Nothing stated in this order shall have any

 bearing on the criminal investigations being conducted in FIR No.0155

 dated 01.08.2021. Since the main case has been disposed off, the pending Civil

 Miscellaneous Application(s), if any, also stand disposed off.

 29.11.2021 ( ALKA SARIN )
 Yogesh Sharma
 JUDGE

 NOTE: Whether speaking/non-speaking: Speaking
 Whether reportable: YES/NO

YOGESH SHARMA
2021.12.02 10:30
I attest to the accuracy of this order. Punjab and Haryana High Court,
Chandigarh