This is a private complaint made by the

complainant against the accused for the offences

punishable u/s 67(A) of IT Act r/w 506 IPC . After

registering the case the matter was referred to CID

Cyber crime PS u/s 156(3) of Cr.P.C. Later IO filed

charge sheet against the accused for the offences

punishable u/s 67 and 67 (A) of IT Act. 2. Brief facts of prosecution case are that:- 3. The accused was arrested during crime stage and

he was enlarged on bail. After filing of this charge

sheet against accused, cognizance of alleged

offences are taken and summons is issued to

accused. Accused has appeared before court in

pursuant to summons. Copy of charge sheet is

furnished to accused u/s 207 of Cr.P.C and charge

is framed against accused. Accused has not pleaded 6 C.C.No.4950/2019 guilt of alleged offences and he has claimed to be

tried. 4. In order to prove the guilt of the accused,

prosecution has examined 9 witnesses as P.Ws.1 to

9 and got marked 29 documents as per Exs.P1 and

P29 and also got marked M.O.1 & 2. On the

contrary accused also led his defence evidence by

examining himself as DW-1 and got marked Ex.D.1

to 9. Statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is

recorded and accused has denied incriminating

evidence against him. Accused has not led any

defence evidence. 5. On the basis of charge sheet allegation,

the following points arose for consideration: 6. Heard arguments. Perused written arguments of

both sides and also oral and documentary evidence

adduced by the prosecution and accused. 7. The following are findings to above points. Point No.1 : In the Affirmative
 Point No.2 : As per final order, for the
 following: 8. Point No.1 : In support of its case, Prosecution

got examined CW-5 as PW-1, he being one of seizure

mahazar witness identified signature appearing in

seizure mahazar which is marked as Ex.P.1 and his

signature as Ex.P.1(a). Further he deposed that the

said mahazar was drawn at Cyber Lab CID in the

presence of pancha witness at that time accused

was also present. Further he deposed that on that 8 C.C.No.4950/2019 day as per the instruction of Investigating Officer he

collected password of the email ID used by the

accused i.e., [email protected] and opened

the said email and got configured to Microsoft 2007

outlook then he copied the same to DVD. The said

DVD is marked as M.O.1. 9. Further prosecution examined CW-3 as PW-2. He

being one of the seizure mahazar witness deposed

that on 30.11.2011, IO called him to the annex

building room no.4 and mahazar was conducted in

respect of obscene video sent by accused to his wife

through E-mail and the said E-mails were

downloaded by way of mahazar and later copied to

DVD. Further he deposed that on the same day said

E-mail was taken print out and he identified the

same and marked as Ex.P.2. 10. Further prosecution examined CW-2 as PW-3.

He being the brother of CW-1 deposed that CW-1

married to accused in the year 2013, at that time 9 C.C.No.4950/2019 she was working in Canada. Accused not went to

Canada after the marriage though he had agreed to

go to Canada along with his sister. Further he

deposed that accused has sent obscene video

through E-mail to his sister. Later CW-1 called him

and told him to enquire about the same.

Accordingly, he went to accused and enquired about

the said email and video, then accused admitted

before him that he only sent the said video. Later he

also shown the said video to PW-3 and told that girl

in the said video is CW-1 and he will prove the

same. Later he informed the same to CW-1 then

CW-1 sent a complainant through E-mail to

Commissioner of Police. Accordingly,

Subramanyanagara PS called the accused and

enquired but they have not taken any action. 11. Further he deposed that when CW-1 came to

Bengaluru in the month of January then she filed

the private complaint and he submitted the video by 10 C.C.No.4950/2019 downloading the same in pen drive and handed over

the same to police. The said CD is marked as Ex.P.3

and pen drive is marked as M.O.1. (Ought to be

M.O.2). Later handed over the self attested E-mail

print out sent by CW-1 to police along with 65(B)

certificate same is marked as Ex.P.4 & 5. The E-

mails are marked as Ex.P.6. 12. Further prosecution examined CW-1 as PW-4.

She being complainant victim deposed that on

13.05.2013 she married to accused and since 2010

she was working in Canada. At the time of marriage

accused agreed to join CW-1 in Canada.

Accordingly, she had processed his Visa for

permanent resident and she knew the accused

person before marriage as both were studied in

same college. Further she deposed that she received

the VISA of the accused but without any reason he

refused to come to Canada. Further she deposed

that she was admitted in hospital for 1 and ½ 11 C.C.No.4950/2019 month as she underwent surgery and she came

back to India in the month of December 2014 and

she met the accused and his family members at the

time accused requested to reprocess VISA and he is

ready to come to Canada but concerned authority

refused to reprocess VISA. 13. Further she deposed that when the VISA is not

been processed then accused told with her that to

apply for the divorce and she agreed to for the said

proposal in the month of January-2015, thereafter

there was no communication between complainant

and accused either by phone or E-mail. But on

03.11.2016 she received E-mail from accused E-

mail ID [email protected] to her E-mail ID

lenovaswats @ yahoo.co.in. In the said E-mail he

stated that "can you spare a minute". Then she

replied saying that "what is this about". Later he

sent one more E-mail with video link "Horney Babe

Sucking Dick & fingering Herself" along with 12 C.C.No.4950/2019 picture porn video". After seeing the same she

forwarded the said E-mail to CW-2 and asked him to

check the matter. Accordingly, CW-2 went to

accused house then accused brother shouted at

CW-2 and they showed him the said video in their

mobile phone and told that "she what your sister is

doing in Canada" and they also abused CW-2. 14. Further she deposed that she sent complainant

through E-mail to Commissioner of Police on

09.11.2016 and till 13.11.2016 there was no

response and on 15.11.2016 she got response from

the said office saying that matter is referred to local

PS. In the month of January-2017 she returned to

Bengaluru and approached Cyber Crime PS and

Commissioner of Police and they told that it is a

formal complaint, therefore they are unable to

proceed the matter. Thereafter she contacted lawyer

and filed complainant. The said private complaint is

marked as Ex.P.7 and signature is marked as 13 C.C.No.4950/2019 Ex.P.7(a). Complaint sent to Commissioner of Police

and Cyber crime are marked as Ex.P.8 & 9.

Certificate u/s 65(B) is marked as Ex.P.10 & further

she deposed that when Subramanya nagara police

called the accused for enquiry then he sent one

more E-mail to her Email id by apologing for

sending porn video to her Email. Further as per the

order dated 11.09.2023 PW-4 was recalled and got

marked E-mail conversation and VISA documents as

per Ex.P.22 to 29. 15. Further prosecution examined CW-6 as PW-5.

He being one of the independent witness deposed

that he know CW-1, 2 & accused. CW-2 is child

hood friend. Therefore he know about their family

since long time and in the year 2013 CW-1 and

accused got married. However after marriage CW-1

alone went to Canada but accused refused to go

Canada and CW-2 used to talk about their family

dispute and in the month of November 2016 14 C.C.No.4950/2019 accused sent one E-mail to CW-1 and CW-2

informed the same to him and accused also told that

the lady in the said obscene video is CW-1.

Therefore accused not interested to join CW-1.

Initially CW-2 approached police as per his advice

and accused also admitted his guilt before the police

and he also deposed that he has given his statement

before the police. 16. Further prosecution examined CW-8 as PW-6.

He being one of the independent witness deposed

that he know CW-1, 2 & accused and he attended

the marriage of CW-1 & accused and CW-1 was

trying to get VISA to accused to go to Canada and

helped both accused and CW-1 to get their marriage

registration and certificate. However accused

refused to go to CW-1 and later he came to know

that accused has sent obscene video to CW-1 and

they approached the police and CID and accused 15 C.C.No.4950/2019 was summoned before Subramanya nagara police

and at the time he admitted his guilt before police. 17. Further prosecution examined CW11 as PW7. He

being one of the Investigating Officer deposed that

he received private complaint from the court and

registered FIR in Cr.No.01/2017 and identified FIR

as Ex.P.12 and later CW-2 appeared before him with

the authorization letter of CW-1 and he recorded

the statement and collected CD and pendrive

consisting of disputed video from CW-2. He

identified Ex.P.4, CD and pendrive. He also collected

certificate u/s 65(B) from CW-2 which is marked as

Ex.P.5. Further he deposed that on 07.02.2017 he

issued notice to Yahoo.India.Pvt.Ltd., seeking details

of E-mail i.e., Raghavan @ Yahoo.com . Details of

E-mail the said document is marked as Ex.P.13 and

signature as Ex.P.13(a) and also identified M.O.1

and Ex.P.3. 18. Further prosecution examined CW-12 as PW-8. 16 C.C.No.4950/2019 He being one of the Investigating Officer deposed

that on 14.11.2017 he collected the file from PW-7

and recorded accused voluntary statement and

accused admitted that the said E-mail id belongs to

him, further in his voluntary statement stated that

while he was browsing Xhamaster.com he came

across a video in which a photo resembled his wife.

Hence he forwarded the said video to CW-1 and

accused also stated to IO that if he is given system

and internet connection then he can open his email

and show. Accordingly, the said voluntary statement

is marked as Ex.P.17. After securing mahazar

witness, computer system and internet connection

was provided to accused to open his E-mail ID.

Accordingly, he opened his E-mail ID and witness

identified the mahazar and his signature as

Ex.P.1(c). Later print out of the said E-mail was

taken is already marked as Ex.P.2 and signature of 17 C.C.No.4950/2019 the witness is marked as Ex.P.2(b). Signature of the

accused marked as Ex.P.2(c). 19. Further he issued notice to accused the said

notice is marked as Ex.P.15. On the same day he

created DVD by buring and transferred the entire

inbox contents of E-mail of the accused. The said

DVD is marked as Ex.P.16. Further he deposed that

on 29.05.2018 and on 04.06.2018 he recorded the

statement of CW6 to 8 and he sent notices to banks

by forwarding the aforesaid E-mail id of the accused

to secure the information whether any bank account

is registered with the said E-mail Id. Witness

identified reply sent by HDFC through mail same is

marked as Ex.P.17 and it reveals that accused is

having bank account in HDFC bank by attaching to

the said disputed E-mail id. They also mentioned

mobile number and address of the accused along

with copies of account opening form mentioning

email id of the accused. Further he deposed that he 18 C.C.No.4950/2019 also issued one more email to SBI bank they also

sent reply which is marked as Ex.P.18 and they also

sent KYC form and adhar card the same are

together marked as Ex.P.19. The said E-mails were

taken print out. Accordingly, section 65(B) certificate also issued same is marked as Ex.P.21

and after completion of the investigation he filed

charge sheet against the accused. 20. Further prosecution examined CW-10 as PW-9.

He being Deputy Vice President of HDFC bank

deposed that he has forwarded Ex.P.17 and 20

through E-mail to Cyber Crime police as per their

requisition. 21. By relying on these oral and documentary

evidence learned Snr.APP vehemently argued that

the accused had sent porn video to CW-1 and it is

not disputed by the accused about the same and

documentary evidence clearly reveals that the said

E-mail id belongs to him and the witness also 19 C.C.No.4950/2019 viewed the said porn video. Thereby accused

committed offence punishable u/s 67 & 67(A) of IT

Act. Thereby sought to convict the accused. 22. On the contrary in the present case the accused

had taken following defences. 1. At no point of time he has sent
 disputed E-mail to CW-1. 2. There is no evidence about
 viewing/watching the disputed video link
 sent to CW-1. 3. Complainant E-mail not subjected for
 examination nor her laptop/mobile are
 seized. 4. The certificate issued u/s 65 (B) are
 not in proper format. 23. By relying on the above said defences and in

order to substantiate the above said defences

accused examined himself as DW-1 and got marked

Ex.D.1 to 9. Further in his chief examination he

deposed that they married in February-2013. After 5

days of her marriage she went to Canada and she 20 C.C.No.4950/2019 did not come to India and she was pressurizing the

accused to give divorce and he agreed for the same

and in the year 2016 he sent draft mutual divorce

petition through email but she replied stating that

he has to pay 65,00,000/- otherwise she will file

adultery and harassment cases against accused.

Later he consulted his lawyer for advice then

lawyers told not to pay any amount as she went to

Canada after 5 days of marriage and she is earning.

Later accused and his parents called by

Subramanyapura PS without any FIR as he sent

E-mail to her then police told him that complainant

is expecting apology letter from accused then police

forced him to send alleged email from police station

itself. Again after 15 days cyber crime PS called

accused and took his mobile and laptop and email

id details and once again cyber crime PS asked him

to send one more apology E-mail and on same day

they arrested him and produced before the court 21 C.C.No.4950/2019 and in the year 2017 he got email from the yahoo

service provider the said document is marked as

Ex.P.8. Certificate u/s 65 (B) is marked as Ex.D.9. 24. For the better appreciation of the case the above

said defences are discussed as under:- By relying on above said oral evidence learned

counsel for the accused vehemently argued that at

no point of time accused has sent an E-mail to the

complainant by attaching the said video. Further he

also taken dfence that his email id was hacked.

However except Ex.D-8 i.e., email from yahoo

service provider none of the documents has been

produced and on perusal of the Ex.D.8 the same

was sent to accused on 04.10.2017 with a head line

"updated notice of data breach" However the

other than this document the accused has not

produced the documents to establish that his email

account has been hacked and thereby the said

disputed email sent by hacking. Therefore the

present defence does not hold water. 23 C.C.No.4950/2019 2. There is no evidence about viewing/watching

the disputed video link sent to CW-1.

 At the time of argument learned counsel for the

accused vehemently argued that there is no piece of

evidence which establishes that CW-1 or other

witnesses had watched the said disputed video link.

In order to substantiate the same the counsel for

the accused has relied upon the complaint made by

the complainant at paragraph No.5 she stated that

"Upon receiving the video link from the

accused-Raghavan, I did not click on it

assuming that it was spam or virus". Further he

relied upon cross examination dated 23.12.2021 at

page No.21 of PW4 in which she stated that "I do

not know if the said E-mail is not forwarded to

any other person from the E-mail of accused".

Further he relied upon the contradiction evidence of

PW-4 by complaining complainant's avernment and

examining PW-4 at page No.2 in which she deposed 24 C.C.No.4950/2019 that "I opened the said video and watched it

immediately I forwarded the E-mail to my

brother". Further he relied on the cross

examination of PW-4 at page No.14 in which PW-1

stated that "I have seen disputed video on

03.11.2016 night EST (Eastern Standard Time).

I have not taken print out of E-mail and web

link of particular video as per Ex.P.6.

Immediately after seeing above video....... And I

have watched video in my gadget" . 25. By relying on the above said contradiction

evidence the learned counsel for the accused

vehemently argued that in the complaint nowhere it

is stated that CW-1 has seen the said video but

during her chief examination and cross examination

she deposed that she had watched the said video.

Thereby counsel for the accused submitted that the

above said contradictions has to be taken into 25 C.C.No.4950/2019 consideration as accused has not sent any such

video link to CW-1. 3. Complainant Email not subjected for
examination nor her laptop/mobile are seized. In the present case learned counsel for the

accused vehemently argued that the Investigating

Officer not seized complainant's mobile or laptop

and her email was not subjected to any

examination. On perusal of the materials on record

as there is a serious allegations of transmitting and

forwarding obscene and porn video to complainant

from the accused email id which prima facie

establishes that the accused has sent email from his

email id. Under such circumstances non

examination the complainant's email id will not

affect the investigation.. 4. Certificate issued u/s 65(B) are not in proper
format. Further learned counsel for the accused 26 C.C.No.4950/2019 vehemently argued that the certificate produced by

the prosecution u/s 65(B) is not in proper format

thereby he sought to not to rely on the computer

and other digital produce by the prosecution.

 By relying on the above said defences counsel

for the accused sought to acquit the accused. 26. Now coming to the point of law, as there is a

serious allegations against accused that he has

committed the offence punishable u/s 67 and 67(A) of IT act 2000. For the better appreciation of the

case both the provisions are reproduced as under:- b) 67 (A) of IT Act :- Punishment for publishing or
transmuting of material containing sexually
explicit act, etc., in electronic form:- 27. On careful perusal of the above said two

provisions of law in order to bring home the guilt of

the accused the prosecution has to prove the

following ingredients:- These are two most important ingredients which

has to be proved by prosecution. In order to

establish the same prosecution has relied upon

Ex.P.2 i.e., email sent from email id

" [email protected] to lenova- [email protected] and the said email appears title

as "Horny Babe Sucking Dick & Fingerin Herself: 28. On perusal of the Ex.P.21, the IO specifically

and clearly mentioned from which device he had

taken print out of those documents. In the present

case though counsel for the accused had taken the

defence that email account of the accused was being

hacked. However no substantial material evidence

adduced by the accused. These Ex.P.2, Ex.P19 and

Ex.P.20 clearly reveals that the said email has been

sent by accused's email.id. Further in the present

case the counsel for the accused though relied on

the various contradictions of the witness in respect

of viewing and watching of disputed video. However 30 C.C.No.4950/2019 as per the provisions of section 67 & 67(A) of IT Act

mere transmitting or publish any obscene material

or sexually explicit act is sufficient to constitute the

offence. The said provisions does not speak about

view and watching of the said obscene material by

the victim. On the other hand from title of the link

which attached to the email reads as "Horny Babe

Sucking Dick & Fingering Herself: Free Porn

35" this itself clearly makes that the contents of

email was obscene and sexual explicit act. Further

on careful perusal of the contents in M.O.2 ie.,

pendrive same contains porn video by displaying the

above said link also. Therefore the defence taken by

the accused does not hold water. Therefore on

careful perusal of Ex.P.2, MO.2 which are an email

print out and video clip clearly reveals that the said

email containing obscene material as well as sexual

explicit act was sent by accused email id by the

accused. Though the accused has produced Ex.D.1 31 C.C.No.4950/2019 to 9 the same are in respect of matrimonial dispute

between the complainant and accused. The said

documents does not prove the defence of the

accused that the said email not sent by him. On the

other hand certificate issued u/s 65(B) from the

complainant as well as IO are in proper format

which fulfill ingredients of certificate u/s 65(B) of

Indian Evidence Act. The citations relied by the

counsel for the accused not applicable to the

present case. Therefore the prosecution successfully

proved the guilt of the accused beyond all

reasonable doubt. Hence I answer this point in

the affirmative. 29. Point No.2: - For the reasons stated and

findings given on point No.1, following is:- Perused the materials available on record.

 Complainant and accused are husband and

wife and there were several matrimonial disputes

were pending. By considering relationship between

the complainant and accused and also by

considering antecedent of accused and his carrier I

pass the following:- (Judgment pronounced in the Open Court)

 ORDER
 Acting Under Sec.248(2) of Cr.P.C. the accused is convicted for the offence
 punishable under Sec. 67 and 67(A) of
 IT Act. I ACMM, Bengaluru. Heard the counsel for the accused and

submitted that accused is working in a private

company as a Manager if maximum sentence is 37 C.C.No.4950/2019 imposed the same will affect his carrier as well as

his family members will suffer greater hardship

thereby sought to impose minimum sentence. 2. Perused the materials available on record. 3. Complainant and accused are husband and wife

and there are several matrimonial disputes are

pending. By considering relationship between the

complainant and accused and also by considering

antecedent of accused and his carrier I pass the

following:-