SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why is Lying and Cheating So Common in Every Sphere of Indian Life? How Do We Change It?
DATE: 2017-08-03
SCORE: 212
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6rbpr9/why_is_lying_and_cheating_so_common_in_every/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is going to rustle some jimmies of course, but I really want to discuss this, and I really think this is critical for India's future

In all my 28 years in this country, I've seen lying and cheating as a way of life. 

Started all the way back in school when copying from others wasn't just common, but even something people were proud of. 

Then I went to college and plagiarism was rampant. Copying papers from friends, downloading papers online, etc. was the norm.

Even in school science fairs, you had people buying pre-made science projects from shops and passing it off as their own. Every city has these shops, usually near college/school stationery stores that will make science projects for you.

Some of my friends went on to do PhDs. There is a massive cottage industry of "PhD mills". Basically, some guy will write a PhD thesis for you (for as little as 20,000). Some third rate university will grant you a PhD on the basis of this fraud PhD. The PhD topic will be extremely generic and not worth its paper.

This cheating and lying finds its way into the workplace as well. I know plenty of people who got in by lying about their marks or their degrees. HR managers either turn a blind eye or are even complicit in covering things up.

You see this tendency to cheat and lie in every facet of Indian life. Shopkeepers lie about prices of products, their quality or their manufacturing dates. Service providers like plumbers lie about the cost of fixtures and generate fake bills. Autowallahs will cheat you willy nilly. 

In jobs, people lie about their bills to get extra compensation.

It's just everywhere. Everyone is trying to rip off everyone else. 

I'm not saying that this is an Indian phenomenon, but it feels particularly pronounced in India. 

I remember when was an exchange student for a year in the US and was surprised that students would happily fail an exam than even think of cheating from friends. Plagiarism was also a very serious academic misconduct.

Is it just resource crunch? Is it a fault in our schooling system? Is it a cultural trait?

And if it is, how do we cure it?