This petition is filed by the petitioner/accused

under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., seeking anticipatory bail

in Crime No. 9/2017 of Yedrami Police Station,

registered for the offences punishable under Sections

409 , 465 , 468 , 474 , 477A r/w Sec. 149 of IPC. 2. Brief facts leading to filing of the complaint are

that, Jewargi Tahsildar filed a complaint alleging that

the Government has provided facility to ration card

holders to link their Aadhaar number to the Ration card

and give their finger print in the service centers to get

coupons. Petitioner is running a Guttedar Internet Café

at Yedrami has been entrusted with the work of

consumer service center for the said work. While

working the said work, petitioner by misusing the

facility has created bogus coupons by linking some

Aadhaar number with some other ration cards and

created bogus coupons to get food grains and kerosene 3 thereby, he has committed the breach of trust and

cheated the government. On the basis of the complaint,

a case has been registered against the accused-

petitioner. 3. Heard the arguments of the learned counsel for

the petitioner and learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for respondent-State. 4. The main grounds urged by the learned

counsel for the petitioner are that petitioner is innocent

and he has not committed any offence alleged against

him. The offences leveled against the petitioner are

triable by the Court of Magistrate and are not

punishable with death or imprisonment for life. He

would further contend that the alleged offences have

taken place in Fair Price Shop, but not at the instance

of the petitioner. He would further contend that he

apprehends his arrest by the police, in the event of

arrest, then he will be harassed by the police. He would 4 further contend that fraud played can be detected at

any time, which is a question of document. He would

further contend that petitioner is having both movable

and immovable properties. Therefore, there is no chance

of he being absconded. It is further contended that if

the petitioner is released on bail, he is ready to abide by

the conditions to be imposed by this Court and he is

ready to offer sureties. On these grounds, he prays for

allowing the petition. 5. On the contrary, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State

has vehemently contended that petitioner by misusing

the trust has created the bogus coupons and thereby he

has cheated the Government as well as the public. The

accused-petitioner has committed a social offence,

which is considered to be very serious. He would further

contend that still the investigation is under progress. At

this juncture, if the petitioner is released on bail, there 5 is likelihood of he being absconded and he may not be

available for trial. On these grounds, he prays for

dismissal of the petition. 6. I have perused the FIR, complaint and other

material produced along with the petition and also the

grounds urged in the bail petition. On perusal of the

complaint, the petitioner who was running the Guttedar

Internet Café at Yedrami and to whom the work of

issuing coupons for getting kerosene and food grains

has been entrusted has been misused by linking the

Aadhaar number to some other persons' ration card and

thereby he has committed the alleged offences. Whether

the alleged offences has been committed by the

accused-petitioner along with the other accused persons

is a matter which has to be considered and appreciated

only after full investigation has been completed and the

trial is held. But, so far as the evidence is concerned

the offence leveled against the petitioner are not 6 punishable with death or life, there is no question of

tampering any prosecution documents as they are

available at any time. When the accused-petitioner is

having both movable and immovable properties and he

is ready to abide by the conditions that may be imposed

by this Court, then under such circumstances if

petitioner is released on bail by imposing some

conditions it would safeguard the interest of the

prosecution and it would also meet the ends of justice. 7. For the aforementioned reasons, the petition is

allowed. The respondent-Police are hereby directed to

release the petitioner/accused on bail, in the event of

his arrest, for the above said offences, subject to the

following conditions:-