Shri Anshu Gupta, learned counsel for the complainant.

 Case Diary is perused. Learned counsel for the rival parties are heard.

 This is first application under section 438 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. Applicant apprehends arrest in connection with Crime

No.124/2019 registered at Police Station Dabra, District Gwalior for the

offence punishable under section 420 , 34 of IPC. Allegations against the applicant in short is that the applicant along

with co-accused has committed fraud and cheating in respect of the

public utility land and had also made forged sale deed of the same. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is a

reputed citizen of the locality, who has no criminal past alleged against

him. The applicant is falsely implicated in the matter. It is submitted that

the applicant has neither purchased any land from the co-accused. It is

further submitted that sale deed was executed in 2013 whereas, FIR was

registered in 2019. The civil suit in this regard is already pending. It is

further submitted that the co-accused Tejendar Singh has already been

enlarged on bail by this Court vide order dated 26/03/2019 passed in

M.Cr.C. No. 11441/2019 and the case of the present applicant is identical

and similar to that of the co-accused Tejendar. Applicant is permanent
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH
 (Kalvinder Singh Vs. State of M.P.) 2 M.Cr.C. No. 12535/2019 resident of the Dist. Gwalior and there are no chances of his absconding

or tampering with the prosecution evidence. He shall abide by the terms

and conditions as may be imposed by this Court. Under these

circumstances, applicant prays for anticipatory bail. Learned Public Prosecutor for the State as well as learned counsel
for the complainant opposed the application on the ground that case of
the present applicant is not identical and similar with the case of co-
accused Tejendar Singh since the applicant had purchased the land from
the co-accused Daljeet Singh. The signature of the applicant also find
placed on the sale deed. The applicant is having criminal antecedents.
The applicant is absconding since registration of FIR and investigation
against him is pending and looking to the nature of offence, prima facie,
at this stage, no definite conclusion can be arrived at and prayed for its
rejection by contending that on the basis of the allegations and the
material available on record, no case for grant of anticipatory bail is
made out. However, it would not be desirable to enter into merits of the rival
contentions at this juncture. It is well settled that the considerations
governing grant of anticipatory bail are altogether different from those
relevant for the prayer for regular bail. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case,
but without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, in the
opinion of this Court, no case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out.
The application, therefore, stands rejected. Certified copy as per rules. (S.A. Dharmadhikari)
 Judge

Durgekar*

 SANJAY N.
 DURGEKAR
 2019.04.16
 14:47:43 +05'30'