We have been using the Airtel Broadband services (# [protected]) since 2009. The internet speed was good initially.. but its been really pathetic in past few months. To add to the worst, the broadband connection went down in Sec-62 noida on Thursday, 22 March 2012. Following is the list of events that occured since then: - Filed a complaint on friday, 23 March 2012 in the afternoon. Response: We were promised that the connection will be up and running by 1600 hrs on Friday itself. In the evening, it was still not working. We called up ard 6 in the evening and were told that it'll be resolved on saturday. - On Saturday, 24 March 2012, the problem still persisted. On calling the customer support, we were told that there is some technical fault in that area, and it'll be resolved by Monday, ard 11 am. - On Monday, I received a msg that the ticket that was raised wrt our complaint was successfully resolved. WHEREAS.. it wasnt. We called up in the afternoon, and were told that problem has been resolved in sec-62 so there must be some problem with our individual connection and their engineer will pay us a visit in the evening. In the evening, the engineer called us and said that the problem still persists in our area, so there is no need for a visit and shall be fixed by tuesday 11 am. - On tuesday, still there was no progress. We called again, and were told it'll be fixed by 2 pm. No progress till 5 in the evening, so we called again. and were told that the engineer will call us and visit us ASAP. No engineer call. No Visit. Broadband still not working. Finally we called up again and spoke with some senior person Mr Bharat and told him that if you have to give false promises and provide no services, then please disconnect out connection. He REQUESTED to be given one last chance and ASSURED that we give them another day and it'll be resolved DEFINITELY. - On Wednesday, Still no progress. Again False promises for engineer visit, STILL NO RESPONSE. Finally ard 7-8 pm, I requested for the disconnection of our services. Received a call from their team regarding disconnection and we were AGAIN given false assurances that it'll be resolved by 2pm in the afternoon on Thursday. - On Thursday, we again received a call from their retention team. I asked them to tell me the EXACT STATUS of the problem rather than lies and by when will the problem be resolved. The guy after keeping the line on hold for a while said it'lll take MAXIMUM 7 days. Even after 7 days of persistence of problem, they needed another 7 days.. that was insane. On being harsh, i was told that there will be a ENGINEER VISIT DEFINITELY in the evening. Its ALREADY SUNDAY.. and STILL NO PROGRESS.. I dont know if they are working towards the resolution of the problem or the service disconnection. I DONT HAVE THE SLIGHTEST CLUE. There have been ATLEAST 30 conversation over the phone. The call duration ranging till 40 mins also. They have been causing us enough Inconvenience and mental harassment. I really dont know what to do for making the connection up and running. TIRED of making long phone calls at Customer Support, Requesting, Fighting, Waiting and wasting MY OWN precious time in all this. Sorry for SUCH a LONG Complaint Detail. But this is JUST a small part of the whole mess. Please Do the needful. They are taking this issue way too lightly.