Heard Mohd.Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Mohd. Aslam Khan, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. Daya Shanker Tripathi, learned counsel for the respondents. The second appeal has been filed under Section 100 C.P.C. against the judgment and decree dated 23.9.2000 passed in Civil Appeal No.110 of 1995; Ganga Prasad Vs. Munna Lal & others arising out of the judgment and decree dated 7.10.1995 passed in Civil Suit No.259 of 1990; Smt. Sahodara Vs. Munna Lal & others, whereby the suit for cancellation of a Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 filed by the appellant/plaintiff was dismissed and the appeal preferred by the appellant/plaintiff was also dismissed. As per the facts of the case as borne out from the records, Smt. Sahodara (predecessor in interest) of present appellant Ganga Prasad had filed the suit for cancellation of Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 basically on the ground that the said Will Deed is based on fraud, forgery and deceit. There was no reason for execution of the alleged Will Deed in favour of respondent no.1 by Smt. Nand Rani, the mother of the appellant/plaintiff. As per the pedigree given in the plaint, Thakur Prasad was the original owner of the property in question. The wife of Thakur Prasad was Smt. Nand Rani. After the death of Thakur Prasad his movable and immovable property was inherited by his widow Smt.Nand Rani. Thakur Prasad had two daughters only and no son. The names of the daughters were Smt.Sahodara (Plaintiff) and Smt.Sundara. Munna Lal, defendant/respondent no.1 was the son of Smt.Sundara. In fact, Smt.Sundara had three children; namely, Maiku Lal, Munna Lal and Brij Mohan. As per the plaintiff, Munna Lal was a very cunning person and in order to deprive the plaintiff from her property he by setting up an imposter got a Will Deed executed in his favour by Smt. Nand Rani. On the basis of the said Will Deed no right will accrue in his favour as both the daughters; namely Smt.Sahodara and Smt.Sundara are in possession over the property in question. The descriptions of the property as given in the plaint, it consisted of the land at Plot No.1381 measuring 01 bigha 09 biswa, Plot No.1392 measuring 14 biswa 08 biswansi, Plot No.1393 measuring 01 bhigha 10 biswa, Plot No.1394 measuring 01 bhigha 04 biswa, Plot No. 1541 measuring 01 bhigha 02 biswa, Plot No.1233 measuring 01 biswa 10 biswansi, Plot No. 1355 measuring 06 biswa 10 biswansi, Plot No.1312 measuring 08 biswa and Plot No.1354 measuring 11 biswa, situated in village Khawajamipur Pargana Sikandarpur Tehsil and District Unnao. It is alleged that after the death of Thakur Prasad, plaintiff and defendant no.4, Smt. Sundara had executed a sale deed in favour of Shiv Mandir about which defendant no.1 Munna Lal had full knowledge but he did not raise any objection. It is also alleged that after the death of Smt. Nand Rani the names of plaintiff and defendant no.4 were mutated which was also in the knowledge of the defendants, but since the defendant no.1 was claiming his right on the basis of the alleged Will Deed, as such necessity arose to file the suit for cancellation of the Will Deed. The suit was contested by the defendants/respondent nos. 1 to 4. It was pleaded by the defendants/respondents that the plaintiff had got complete knowledge of the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 on 15.10.1987 on which date the plaintiff had filed objection in the mutation case denying the alleged Will Deed. The suit is barred by limitation. The defendant no.1 since his birth was living with Smt.Nand Rani till her death and she being his grand mother was pleased with the services rendered by him, executed the said Will Deed in his favour and he is in possession over the entire property bequeathed. It was also pleaded that the suit is barred by Section 49 of U.P. Consolidation of Holdings Act. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the trial court framed certain issues, the english translation of the same is as under:- The issue no.2 was framed to the effect as to whether the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 is liable to be cancelled in view of the averments made in Para 7 of the plaint. The issue no.4 was whether the suit is barred by limitation. The plaintiff Smt. Sahodara examined herself as PW-1, Shiv Charan as PW-2, Rajendra Prasad as PW-3; whereas Munna Lal was examined as DW-1, Ganga Prasad as DW-2 and S.P.Ghosh, a Hand Writing Expert as DW-3. The trial court on consideration of the entire facts and circumstances of the case as well as the evidence on record dismissed the suit. While considering the issue with respect to the suit being barred by limitation, the trial court has concluded that the suit has not been filed within the period of limitation of 03 years from the date of knowledge. In the Court of Tehsildar the plaintiff had filed objection along with an application pleading therein that the Will Deed claimed by defendant/respondent no.1 Munna Lal is fake. The plaintiff Smt.Sahodara had complete knowledge about the alleged Will Deed on 15.10.1987. The suit had been filed on 21.11.1990. As such the suit filed by the plaintiff is barred by 01 month 06 days. As such, the suit is beyond the period of limitation under Section 59 of Limitation Act and is time barred. The issue no. 4 was decided positively. While deciding the issue no.2, the trial court came to the conclusion that the alleged Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 does not appear to be genuine. It appears to have been obtained by playing fraud, forgery, fraudulence and with deceitful intention. The issue nos. 1,3 and 5 were decided negatively. The lower appellate court while deciding the appeal filed under Section 96 C.P.C. by the appellant/plaintiff had considered in detail the findings recorded by the trial court and had opined that there was only one point of determination in the appeal i.e. as to whether the suit is time barred. The first appellate court has upheld the findings of the trial court on issue no.4 and has come to the conclusion that the suit is barred by time. The appellate court has opined that the contention of the appellant/plaintiff that since the alleged Will Deed was obtained by fraud, as such it will not be barred by time, cannot be accepted. It can be possible that the plaintiff could not know the execution of the said Will Deed or had come to know about it, it may not have the complete details of the fraud played by the other side, however when the plaintiff had come to know about the alleged fraud and knowledge of the Will Deed, she should have filed the suit within time. The limitation period will be counted from the date of knowledge. The plaintiff had gathered complete knowledge about the Will Deed on 15.10.1987. The plaintiff Sahodara PW-1 in her statement had said that when she had filed the objection in the mutation case, she had knowledge of the alleged Will Deed. The plaintiff, as such, had full knowledge of the Will Deed on the date when she had filed the objection in the mutation case i.e. on 15.10.1987. The lower appellate court has noted that the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the alleged Will was a void document being based on fraud, as such the period of limitation would not be applicable, is not acceptable. In case any person files a suit for cancellation of any document he has to file the said suit within the period of limitation from the date of knowledge of the said document. The lower appellate court has observed that if the alleged Will is a void document then what was the necessity for the appellant/plaintiff to have filed the suit for cancellation of the said document. The lower appellate court has upheld the findings of the trial court in this regard. While admitting the instant appeal, this Court has framed the following substantial questions of law: Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the trial court has held that the disputed signature on the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 do not tally with the admitted signature. Merely on the basis of the registration, it could not be held that the Will is genuine, rather in suspicious circumstance that the Will is surrounded an explanation has to be furnished. As such the burden lies on the person and he has to discharge that burden who is benefited by the Will. It was also held that an explanation was furnished by the defendant no. 1 Munna Lal that since his grand mother Smt. Nand Rani got him married and he was residing with her, hence the Will was executed in his favour, is not a satisfactory explanation; rather it is suspicious circumstance that if Nand Rani did not want to give anything to Smt. Sahodara (plaintiff), then why she had not given any share of her property to the sons of Smt. Sahodara. It was also held that Smt.Sundara, defendant/respondent no.4 along with defendant no.2/Brij Mohan had entered into a compromise with Smt. Sahodara (plaintiff), which is paper no. 45-ka. In this compromise. Smt. Sundara, mother of the defendant no. 1 had admitted that her son Munna Lal defendant no. 1 had got a forged Will executed from Smt. Nand Rani. The trial court has also taken note of the fact that Smt. Nand Rani, the grand mother of the defendant no.1 was aged about 80 years and the mental condition of a person of about 80 years old could not be said to be sound and further it was unnatural that in case Smt. Nand Rani along with Ganga Prasad Awasthi came to the Court to execute the Will of such a big property why other witnesses met her and Munna Lal/defendant no.1 left the place when the Will Deed was executed in his favour. In view of the aforesaid circumstances the trial court opined that the alleged Will Deed appears to be fake and appears to have been obtained by fraud and misrepresentation. Learned counsel for the appellant vehemently contended that in case the Will is proved to have been obtained by fraud and misrepresentation, then it would be a void document and in the case of void documents Article 59 of the Limitation Act under which 03 years limitation is prescribed from the date of knowledge of the instrument, would not be attracted. It is also contended that the Will Deed cannot be treated to be an instrument under the definition of term ''instrument'. as defined under the Transfer of Property Act . In this regard the appellant has relied on the judgment in the case of Sanat Kumar Mitra Vs. Hem Chandra Dey and others1. It is also contended that the lower appellate court did not frame the points of determinations. It considered only issue no.4 and even without considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case endorsed the findings recorded by the trial court and held that the suit is barred by limitation. The lower appellate court did not even touch the findings recorded by the trial court on issue no.2. Thus the findings of the trial court on issue no.2 attained finality. The suspicious circumstances in which the Will was executed as well as the signature on the Will do not tally with the admitted signature and further the Will was surrounded by suspicious circumstances as well as the burden lies on the person who is benefited by the said Will, are all such findings of the trial court which have not been reversed by the lower appellate court and stand affirmed. It is contended that once the courts below have come to the conclusion that the alleged Will Deed was obtained by fraud, the suit for cancellation of the Will Deed could not have been dismissed on the ground of limitation and was liable to be allowed. It is submitted that from bare perusal of the impugned judgment it is revealed that mandatory provisions of Order 41 Rule 31 of C.P.C . have not been complied, hence the impugned judgment is liable to be set aside. In this regard the appellant has relied on the judgment in the case of Kuldeep Saxena Vs. Smt. Archana Saxena & 6 others2. It is argued that in view of the law laid by the Apex Court in the case of Madhukar and others Vs. Sangram and others3, relying on the judgment of Santosh Hazari Vs. Purushottam Tiwari4 , laying that the appellate court has jurisdiction to reverse or affirm the findings of the trial court. First appeal is a valuable right of the parties and unless restricted by law, the whole case is therein open for rehearing both on questions of fact and law. The judgment of the first appellate court must, therefore, reflect its conscious application of mind and record findings supported by reasons, on all the issues arising along with the contentions put forth and pressed by the parties for decision of the appellate court. It is also contended that the impugned judgment of the first appellate court is totally silent on various evidences; oral as well as documentary led by the parties before the trial court which were noticed and appreciated by the trial court. Sitting as a court of first appeal, it is the duty to deal with all the issues and evidences led by the parties before recording its findings. The appellate court failed to discharge the obligation vested on it. The judgment under appeal is cryptic and the relevant aspects of the case have not been noticed. The appellant's counsel submits that in the case of Sanat Kumar Mitra (Supra), applicability of Article 91(old) equal to Article 59 (new) of Limitation Act, 1963 came up for consideration and it was held that Article 91 does not apply if the instrument is void abinitio and applies only if it is voidable and requires to be set aside. Moreover, this article applies only when the plaintiff is a party to the instrument. Admittedly, the plaintiff was not a party to the alleged Will Deed dated 7.1.1987, as such the alleged Will Deed is a void document and Article 59 of Limitation Act would not be applicable. In the case of Mohd.Nazir and others Vs. Mst . Zulaikha5, in a suit for declaration and transactions embodied in a particular deed was from the very inception a sham transaction. It is to be distinguished from a suit for cancellation of the deed. The former kind of suit does not fall within the purview of Article 91 (old) wherein the deed is null and void. It is not necessary to come to the Court pre-emptly to get the Deed cancelled or set aside. In the case of Rankanidhi Sahu Vs. Nanda Kishore Sahu6, Article 59 of Limitation Act applies when a suit is filed for cancellation or setting aside a document which is not void ab initio. If a document is void ab initio and is an illegal document from very inception it is not required either to cancel or to set aside by filing a suit because according to law such a document does not exist. Same view was reiterated in the case of Smt. Sanghiran Vs. D.D.C.Meerut and others7, it has been held that if the sale deed is void the question of relief for getting the sale deed cancelled would not be involved. Article 59 of Limitation Act , may therefore, applies where a document is prima facie valid. It would not apply to the instruments which are pre-emptly invalid. Thus, if the plaintiff is in possession over the property on which her name was mutated in revenue records and she along with her sister was in possession, she may file a suit for declaration that the deed is not binding upon her but if he/she is not in possession thereto, even under a void transaction right, right by way of adverse possession can be claimed. Thus, the provisions of Limitation Act would have no application at all in the event the transaction is held to be void. Learned counsel for the defendants/respondents on the other hand strongly contended that there is no infirmity or illegality in the judgments passed by two courts below. There are concurrent findings of the courts below which do not require any interference. It is submitted that the alleged Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 is a genuine document. It was a registered document. It was executed by Smt. Nand Rani with her free will and with full consciousness and awareness. It was executed in favour of defendant no.1 Munna Lal who is her grand child being the son of her daughter Smt. Sundara. Munna Lal lived with Smt. Nand Rani since his birth and till her death. She loved him a lot. It is contended that the Will Deed was examined before the trial court. The attesting witnesses of the Will had verified the said document and had duly proved the execution of the Will Deed. The trial court had no occasion to disbelieve the marginal witnesses of the Will Deed merely on the ground that Ganga Prasad, a marginal witness was a friend of defendant no.1/Munna Lal and out of the friendship he could have become a witness in the said Will Deed. The other marginal witness Ram Krishna is the maternal brother of the wife of Munna Lal and as such he was an interested witness and could not be believed 
 
	It is submitted that once the marginal witnesses had duly verified the execution of the said Will Deed there was no occasion for the trial court to have given its opinion otherwise. It is further submitted that the Hand Writing Expert Mr. S.P.Ghosh was examined before the trial court and it was stated by him that since in the registered documents at the time of registration thumb impression of left thumb is taken and in other documents thumb impression of right thumb is taken, as such it cannot be said as to whether the admitted thumb signature of Nand Rani is of left thumb or right thumb and therefore no definite opinion can be given. The contention is that the finding of the trial court on issue no.2 is based on presumptions and without any cogent evidence. Moreover, the said findings has no consequence once the trial court has dismissed the suit itself on the ground of limitation and has given its findings on issue no. 4 that the suit is barred by time. So far as the question that the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 was a void document as claimed by the plaintiff/appellant is concerned, learned counsel for the respondents submits that as per own case of the plaintiff/appellant the alleged Will Deed was obtained by fraud and misrepresentation, as such in the given facts and circumstances it will at the most can be treated to be a voidable document and cannot be held to be a void document. It is contended that the Apex Court in the case of State of A.P. Vs. S. Rayappa and others8 has observed that testimony of a witness otherwise inspiring confidence cannot be discarded on the ground that he being a relation of the deceased is an interested witness. The said proposition has been held in the case of Madhusudan Das Vs. Smt. Narayanibai (deceased by L.Rs.) & others9. Contention of the other side that the Will is witnessed by suspicious circumstances is also incorrect because while executing the Will in question Smt. Nand Rani, the executor of the Will had clearly mentioned the reason as to why she is depriving Smt.Sahodara from her property and why she has given all her property to defendant no.1 Munna Lal. The Will Deed in question is a valid document. It was duly registered and legally enforceable in all aspects. Learned counsel for the respondents further submitted that the Will Deed is an instrument even in case where Article 59 of Limitation Act is not applicable. The limitation period is to be counted on the basis of the residuary article i.e.. Article 113 of Limitation Act, 1963 and as per the Article 113 of Limitation Act , the period of three years would be applicable from the date the right to sue accrues. In the case of Firoz and others Vs. Sultan Surkhru10, their Lordships had observed that in case of Will Article 120 (old) instead of Article 91 (old) of Limitation Act would be applicable. Article 120 corresponds with Article 113 of the new Act. Thus in the present case the trial court has rightly dismissed the suit being filed beyond time. Submission is that even if for argument sake if it is accepted that Article 59 of Limitation Act was not applicable then as per Article 113 of the Limitation Act, 1963 the period of limitation would be three years, same as provided under Article 59. As such the suit of the plaintiff was time barred as held by the concurrent findings of both the courts below. Mr. Daya Shanker Tripathi, learned counsel for the respondents submits that the Will Deed is an instrument within the meaning of Article 59 of Indian Limitation Act, 1963 . If the Will Deed is not an instrument then a suit for cancellation of a Will Deed or suit for declaration of Will as void also could not be filed in any court of law because Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act is the only provision under the law which enumerates a right to any person to get the relief of cancellation of instrument being void or voidable and who has reasonable apprehension that such an instrument if left outstanding may cause him serious injury. The term "written instrument" has been used in Section 31 of Specific Relief Act 1963 and according to the definition provided therein only a "written instrument" could be adjudged by a Court as void and voidable or cancelled. Submission is that if the Will is not an instrument then under what provision of law other than Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, the plaintiff could have filed her suit for cancellation of Will Deed. Learned counsel for the defendants/respondents in this regard relied on the following judgments. 1. Mathai Samuel & others Vs. Eapen (dead) by 	L.Rs. and others11 (Paras 12 and 13). 2. Sudha Sharma Vs. Shashi Bala12 (Para 12) 3. 	Jagjiwan Rai and others Vs. Hari Kunwar & 	others13 (Para 13)
 

 
	It is contended that a void document under the Indian Contract Act would mean "An agreement not enforceable by law" whereas under the term voidable means "agreement which is enforceable by law at the option of one or more of the parties thereto, but not at the option of other or others". Submission is that Section 19 of the Indian Contract Act provides that "when consent to an agreement is caused by coercion, fraud or misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused....." Thus, it is clear that when fraud is pleaded in a suit then the document alleged to have been obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation would be voidable document and not void. In the case of Prem Singh and others Vs. Birbal and others14, the Supreme Court has held that Article 59 of the Limitation Act would be attracted when coercion, undue influence, misappropriation or fraud is required to be proved. It has been held that if a suit is found to be barred by limitation, every suit instituted, appeal preferred and every application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed. It has been further held that if a deed was executed by the plaintiff when he was a minor and it was void and he did not file suit within the limitation period prescribed, then the suit was barred by limitation. It is further contended that in the case of M/s. Craft Centre Vs. Koncherry Coir Factories, Cherthala15 , it has been held that Section 3 of the Limitation Act is mandatory and absolute. If the suit is barred by time Court is duty bound to dismiss the same even at the appellate stage though the issue of limitation may not have been raised. In the case of Utha Moidu Haji Vs. Kuningarath Kunhabdulla and others16, it has been held that even in case of void documents law of limitation would apply and it will be counted from the date of knowledge of the Deed. In the case of Hamida Begum alias Alo Bibi Vs. Umran Bibi & others17, it has been held that there is no dispute that the suit was filed by virtue of the right created under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The period of limitation of filing such suit is 03 years according to Article 59 of the Limitation Act . The time runs when the facts entitling the plaintiffs to have the instrument cancelled or set aside first become known to them. In the case of Kamlesh Babu and others Vs. Lajpat Rai Sharma and others18, the Apex Court has held that it was the duty of the first appellate Court and also of the High Court to go into the question of limitation and decide the same before reversing the judgment of the trial court on various issues framed in the suit. The issues so decided the same were of no avail since the suit continued to remain barred under Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963 . In the case of Mohd. Noorul Hoda Vs. Bibi Rafiunnisa and others19, it was held that Article 59 of the Limitation Act is a general provision. In a suit to set aside or cancel an instrument, a contract or a decree on the ground of fraud Article 59 is attracted. The starting point of limitation is the date of knowledge of the alleged fraud. Contention is that the limitation is the root question of maintainability in a suit and when a suit is found to be time barred, nothing could be adjudicated in such a suit. From the perusal of the judgments of the courts below, it is very much clear that the suit was dismissed on the ground of barred by time, as such in view of the above facts, none of the substantial question of law could be decided in favour of the appellant/plaintiff and the second appeal is liable to be dismissed. I have considered the submissions made by the parties' counsel and gone through the records. As per the definition of the term "instrument" as given under Section 3 , Transfer of Property Act, 1882, "Instrument" means a non-testamentary instrument. Section 3 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 reads as under:- ["actionable claim" means a claim to any debt, other than a debt secured by mortgage of immoveable property or by hypothecation or pledge of moveable property, or to any beneficial interest in moveable property not in the possession, either actual or constructive, of the claimant, which the Civil Courts recognise as affording grounds for relief, whether such debt or beneficial interest be existent, accruing, conditional or contingent;] 
 
["a person is said to have notice" of a fact when he actually knows that fact, or when, but for wilful abstention from an enquiry or search which he ought to have made, or gross negligence, he would have known it. Explanation I.--Where any transaction relating to immoveable property is required by law to be and has been effected by a registered instrument, any person acquiring such property or any part of, or share or interest in, such property shall be deemed to have notice of such instrument as from the date of registration or, where the property is not all situated in one sub-district, or where the registered instrument has been registered under sub-section (2) of section 30 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), from the earliest date on which any memorandum of such registered instrument has been filed by any Sub-Registrar within whose sub-district any part of the property which is being acquired, or of the property wherein a share or interest is being acquired, is situated:] 
 
Provided that-- Explanation II.--Any person acquiring any immovable property or any share or interest in any such property shall be deemed to have notice of the title, if any, of any person who is for the time being in actual possession thereof. Explanation III.--A person shall be deemed to have had notice of any fact if his agent acquires notice thereof whilst acting on his behalf in the course of business to which that fact is material: For the purpose of Section 31 of Specific Relief Act, 1963, the Will Deed has to be treated as an instrument otherwise if the Will is not an instrument then there is no provision of law other than Section 31 of Specific Relief Act, 1963 under which the plaintiff could have filed her suit for cancellation of Will Deed. In view of above, I am of the considered view that the Will Deed cannot be termed to be an "non-instrument" otherwise a person would be deprived of any legal remedy and cannot file a suit for cancellation of Will Deed. So far as the question as to whether in the given facts of this case the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 could be a void or voidable document, the definition of void and voidable document is required to be seen. Under Section 2(g) of Indian Contract Act void document would mean "an agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void" whereas term "voidable" has been defined under Section 2(i) of the Indian Contract Act as "an agreement which is enforceable by law at the option of one or more of the parties thereto, but not at the option of the other or others, is a voidable contract". Section 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines that "when consent to an agreement is caused by coercion, fraud or misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused........." Thus, it is clear that when fraud is pleaded for cancellation in a suit then it is voidable not void document and the document alleged to have been obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation, would be a voidable and not a void document. In the case of Mathai Samuel & others (Supra), it has been held that Will is an instrument whereunder a person makes a disposition of his properties to take effect after his death and which is in its own nature ambulatory and revocable during his life. Paragraphs 12 and 13 of the judgment are reproduced below:- 13. The essential quality of a testamentary disposition is ambulatoriness of revocability during the executants' lifetime. Such a document is dependent upon executants' death for its vigour and effect." In the case of Smt. Sudha Sharma (Supra), the Division Bench of this Court has considered the definition of term "instrument" under Section 3 of Transfer of Property Act for the purpose of court fee to be payable according to the Section 7 (iv- A) of Court Fee Act and has held that Will is an instrument securing money or other property having such value, therefore the plaintiff is required to pay ad-valorem court fee on the reliefs claimed by her in the suit. Paragraphs 5,7,10, 11 and 12 are reproduced below:- "14. .......There is a big gap between the declaration simplicitor and relief in the garb of declaration. If a person makes a prayer to declare right, title or interest of a property in his favour then it can be construed as declaration simplicitor but when a plaintiff seeks any declaration to dis entitle others right into a property, such type of circumvent prayer cannot be treated to be declaration simplicitor. In other words, he is not asking any relief for himself but want to prevent his opponent from enjoying fruit of the property. Therefore such type of relief is virtually in the nature of injunction at first with the nomenclature of 'declaration'. Therefore, it is required for the Court to go into the real nature of dispute arising out of the plaint to ascertain the cause and incidental cause which helps it. A will is execution of document of a testator to give his property to a person of his choice. Such will, will be enforceable only after the death of the testator. In some of the States of India, grant of probate by the appropriate Court of law on the will is compulsory and some of the State is optional. In the State of U.P., to obtain probate on the will is optional, therefore, as soon as the testator dies and will comes into light, it operates as a valuable instrument in favour of the person in whose favour property is devolved by such will. If such person seeks a probate before the Court by filing it, no question of ad valorem court-fee will be applicable but it will be paid as soon as Court will grant such probate in his favour. In the present case, the defendant/respondent never approached to the Court to obtain a probate but enjoying the property as successor under a will. Now if such will is declared by the Court as null and void, right of the person in the property or properties under the will, will be extinguished. Therefore, the principle of securing property under the will, will be attracted. Therefore, under, no stretch of imagination we can hold and say that the suit can be entertained on the basis of the fixed Court-fees." 11. Now as regards the argument of learned counsel for the appellant with regard to applicability of Article 17 (iii) Court Fees Act is concerned, it would be useful to quote para-10 of the report of Kailash Chand 's case (supra), which is reproduced as under: 'The Court further held that : 12. In the instant case both the wills mentioned by the plaintiffs (one in their favour and the other for the defendant) in the plaint were allegedly executed by Smt. Punaya Kirti Sharma, who has died on 11.12.2004. After the death of parties' mother Smt. Punaya Kirti Sharma the will executed by her becomes operative, therefore, in view of the above legal position, the will is an instrument securing property having money value, so court fee would be payable according to S. 7 (iv-A) and not under Article 17(iii) of the Court Fees Act ." In the case of Jagjiwan Rai and others Vs. Hari Kunwar Rai & others (Supra), this Court had occasion to consider the definition of term "instrument" for the purpose of applying Article 59 of Limitation Act , whether the decree is an instrument within the meaning of Article 59 (old Article 1991) of Limitation Act . It has been held that document cannot be an instrument unless it affects some right or liability. In other words an "instrument" is a document which defines, prescribes, transfers, recognizes, establishes a right in a party. Paragraphs 6,7,8,10, 13, 14, 15 and 17 of the judgment are relevant and the same are reproduced below:- 13. The word "instrument" has not been defined in the Court Fees Act . But the definition given in the Stamp Act has been held to be applicable to interpret the word "instrument" in the Court Fees Act as well. After the death of the testator, his Will becomes an "instrument" securing money or property within the meaning of Section 7 (iv-a) (U.P.) of the Court Fees Act . It was held in a case that the Will could not be enforced against the testator so long as he was alive and as such it could not be said to be a document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded during his life time. This view was taken by a learned Single Judge of this Court in Gulab Chand v. Jaswant Singh . 14. It has been held that an award is an "instrument" within the meaning of Article 91 and the Plaintiff cannot challenge the decree incorporating the award unless he can show that a suit to set aside the award was brought within the period prescribed by Article 91 See AIR 1927 Lah 172, The Supreme Court in the case of Parsottam v. V.B. Potiar MANU/SC/0244/1965MANU/SC/0244/1965 : 1966 (2) SCR 353 has held an "award" by an Industrial Tribunal a decree. Their Lordships were considering the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act and the definition of the word "wages" in Section 2(vi) of the Act and in particular their Lordships were construing the meaning of the word "instrument" as appearing in Sub-clause (d) of Section 2(iv) . Their Lordships observed: 15. The word "instrument" also appears in Section 26-A of the Income Tax Act, 1922. It came in for interpretation in ILR 65 Bom 610. It has been held that an "instrument" means a document of a legal nature by which any right or liability is, or is purported to be created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded. The document must be executed by the parties. This interpretation is on the same par as in the Stamp Act . It would, therefore, not be incorrect to give the word "instrument" the same meaning as is generally to be found in various other enactments. 17. It is, therefore, clear that a document cannot be an "instrument" unless it affects some right or liability. In other words an "Instrument" is a document which defines, prescribes, transfers, recognises, establishes a right in a party. Judged from this aspect a compromise decree either gives a right to a party or recognises his rights, vis-a-vis, a property. The compromise decree is a document of title. It affects rights as well. It, therefore, fulfils all the requirements of an instrument. I am, therefore, of the opinion that a "decree" is an "instrument" within the meaning of Article 91 of the Act." Judging from this aspect a Will Deed gives a right to a party or recognizes the rights vis-a-vis a property, as such it shall be treated to be covered under the term "instrument" for the purpose of applicability of Article 59 of the Limitation Act . Learned counsel for the appellant has relied on the judgment of Calcutta High Court in the case of Sanat Kumar Mitra Vs. Hem Chandra Dey and others (Supra). It has been held in the said judgment that the period of limitation would not be applicable when the instrument is void ab initio but applies only if it is voidable and is requires to be set aside. In the present case the trial court has already dealt with the above case law and the provisions of Indian Contract Act and has given specific findings that the aforesaid case laws would not apply in the present case as the document in question is a voidable document. I am of the considered view that the view taken by the trial court is correct. In case the suit for cancellation of Will Deed was filed on the plea that the alleged Will Deed was obtained by fraud and misrepresentation by putting an imposter then it can be at the most a voidable document and not a void document. In the case of Mohd.Nazir and others Vs. Mst . Zulaikha (Supra), it has been held that in a suit for declaration that a transaction embodied in a particular deed was from the very inception a sham transaction, is to be distinguished from a suit for cancellation of the deed. Such kind of suit does not fall within the purview of Article 59. When a deed is null and void, there is no necessity for the party to come to the Court pre-emptly and to get the deed cancelled or set aside. Since in the present case, this Court has come to the conclusion that the Will in question at the most can be termed as a voidable document and it was not a document void ab initio, as such the judgment cited by learned counsel for the appellant is not of much help to him. In the case of Rankanidhi Sahu Vs. Nanda Kishore Sahu (Supra), relied by learned counsel for the appellant, it has been held that Article 59 of the Limitation Act applies when a suit is filed for cancellation or setting aside a document which is void ab initio. If a document is void ab initio and is an illegal document from very inception it is not required to cancel or set aside by filing a suit because according to law such a document does not exist. Same view was reiterated in the case of Smt. Sanghiran Vs. D.D.C.Meerut and others (Supra), that if the sale deed is void, question of getting it cancelled does not arise and no question of relief for getting the sale deed cancelled would be involved. There is no quarrel to the aforesaid proposition that Article 59 of Limitation Act may apply where the document is prima facie valid or is voidable. It would not apply to the instruments which are pre-emptly invalid or void ab initio. In the present case, since the Will in question has been held to be a voidable document, the judgment cited above is of no help to the appellant. So far as the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the trial court has given specific finding that the Will in question is a fake and fraudulent document and therefore void, is concerned, it is to be noted that the learned trial court has drawn presumption regarding genuineness of the Will. It is not in dispute that the said Will Deed was a registered document and has been proved in accordance with law as per Section 68 of Indian Evidence Act before the trial court as well as before the Court of Tehsildar where the properties were got recorded in the name of defendant no. 1 Munna Lal on the basis of the said Will Deed. The plaintiff/appellant has tried to put force on the point that the attesting witnesses have been disbelieved by the trial court as they were either friend or relatives of the beneficiary of the Will. The Supreme Court in the case of State of A.P. Vs. S. Rayappa and others (Supra) has held that testimony of a witness otherwise inspiring confidence cannot be discarded on the ground that he being a relation of the deceased is an interested witness. The same proposition has been held in Paragraph 18 of Madhusudan Das Vs. Smt. Narayanibai (deceased by L.Rs.) & others (Supra). Paragraph 18 of the judgment is reproduced below:- "18. The High Court disagreed with the trial court and held that the adoption had not been established. In doing so, it adopted an approach which, to our mind, is plainly erroneous. It proceeded to judge the credibility of the witnesses mainly with reference to their relationship with the parties without placing adequate weight on the nature of the evidence and the probability of its truth in the context of the surrounding circumstances. It rejected the testimony of the appellant's witnesses substantially on the ground that they were related to the appellant or out of favour with Narsinghdas. This consideration, in our opinion, cannot by itself constitute a sufficient basis for discrediting the witnesses. We think the proper rule to be that when a witness holds a position of relationship favouring the party producing him or of possible prejudice against the contesting party, it is incumbent on the court to exercise appropriate caution when appraising his evidence and to examine its probative value with reference to the entire mosaic of facts appearing from the record. It is not open to the court to reject the evidence without anything more on the mere ground of relationship or favour or possible prejudice. The judgment under appeal indicates that the High Court commenced with that mistaken approach, and we see its influence working throughout its appraisal of the testimony of the several witnesses. It is only logical that with its approach so oriented even the most 862 significant material adduced by the appellant should, in the eyes of the High Court, take on a negative hue. The High Court should also have reminded itself that these same witnesses had given their evidence before the trial court,which had the opportunity of seeing their demeanour in the witness box, and the appreciation of their evidence by the trial court should have been given due consideration in the light of that fact." In the case of Prem Singh and others Vs. Birbal and others (Supra), it has been held that Article 59 of the Limitation Act would be attracted when coercion, undue influence, misappropriation or fraud is required to be proved. It has been observed that if a suit is found to be barred by limitation, every suit instituted, appeal preferred and every application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed. It has been held that if a deed was executed by the plaintiff when he was minor and it was void and he did not file the suit within the limitation period prescribed, then the suit was barred by limitation. Relevant Paragraphs 12, 13, 18, 28 and 29 are reproduced below:- In the case of Utha Moidu Haji Vs. Kuningarath Kunhabdulla and others (Supra), it has been held that even in case of void documents law of limitation applies and it will be counted from the date of knowledge of the deed. Relevant Paragraphs 13 and 14 of the judgment are produced below:- It was further held: 14. A grandfather from the mother's side, under the Mohammadan Law, is not a co-owner of a property. Moosa Haji as a predecessor in interest of the said property also thus did not become the co-owner of the plaintiff. The expression co-owner presupposes ownership. If the contention of the plaintiff-respondent that Moosa Haji did not acquire any interest in the property so far as plaintiff is concerned is correct, the question of his becoming co-owner of the property by reason of the said deed of sale or otherwise would not arise. When a person enters into possession of a land under a void or voidable transaction, his possession becomes adverse from the date he comes in possession. His possession would be exclusive, it will be a repetition to state or not, in the capacity of a co-owner. The concept of co-owner, therefore, in our opinion, has not been correctly applied in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case. Reliance has been placed by Mr. Vishwanatha Iyer on a decision of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Jagannath Marwari and Ors. v. Mst . Chandni Bibi and Anr. AIR (1921) Cal. 647. Therein the parties were co-sharers and a question was raised as to whether a co-sharer becomes entitled to claim indefeasible title by starting possession of the property adverse to the interest of the plaintiff who was a minor at that point of time. The Calcutta High Court opined that the question of adverse possession as against the minor to his knowledge would arise only from the date of his attaining majority and not prior thereto. We also agree with Mr. Ramamoorthy that it was also not a case where the vendor held the property in suit in trust for the plaintiff. As noticed hereinbefore, we are not concerned with such a situation in the present case as the only question which fell for consideration before the learned Trial Judge was that whether the provisions of Article 60 of the Schedule appended to the Limitation Act would be attracted in the facts and circumstances of the case." In the case of Hamida Begum alias Alo Bibi Vs. Umran Bibi & others (Supra), the Apex Court has held that there is no dispute that the suit was filed by virtue of the right created under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The period of limitation of filing such suit is 03 years according to Article 59 of the Limitation Act . The time runs when the facts entitling the plaintiffs to have the instrument cancelled or set aside first become known to them. It has also held that if a party admits execution of a deed of transfer is vitiated by fraud either as to the contents or as to the nature of transaction, he is under obligation to file a suit under Section 31 of the Act for avoiding such transaction within the period of limitation provided in Article 59 of the Limitation Act . The Apex Court has also held that if a suit is not covered by any of the specific articles prescribing a period of limitation it must fall within the residuary article. Article 113 (corresponding to Article 120 of the Act of 1908) is a residuary article for cases not covered by any other provisions of the Act. It prescribes a period of three years when the right to sue accrues. Paragraphs 13, 19, 20, 26 and 27 of the judgment are relevant, which read as under:- 20. A combined reading of Sections 31 of the Specific Relief Act and Section 27 of the Limitation Act makes it abundantly clear that if a party admits execution of a deed of transfer in favour of another but claims that the said transaction is vitiated by fraud either as to the contents or as to the nature of the transaction, he is under obligation to file a suit under Section 31 of the Act for avoiding such transaction within the period of limitation provided in Article 59 of the Limitation Act and the period is 3 years and the time starts running when the facts entitling the plaintiff to cancel or set aside the instrument first become known to him. If the remedy becomes time barred, his right to resist a claim over the said property based on such deed will automatically be barred because of the provisions contained in Section 27 of the Limitation Act even if he remains in possession of the property unless he asserts adverse possession and claims to have perfected his title by such adverse possession after the execution of the deed. 26. In this connection, we may profitably refer to a three Judges Bench decision of the Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab vs. Gurdev Singh reported in AIR 1991 SC2219 where the question was whether for avoiding an ultra vires order of dismissal, an employee is required to approach a Court within a specified time prescribed by the law of limitation. The argument was based on the principle that for challenging a void order, there is no period of limitation and the aggrieved person can approach the Court at any time. In that context, the Apex Court held as follows:- Apropos to this principle, Prof. Wade states: the principle must be equally true even where the 'brand of invalidity' is plainly visible: for there also the order can effectively be resisted in law only by
 
obtaining the decision of the Court (see : Administrative Law 6th Ed. p. 352). Prof. Wade sums up these principles: 27. The aforesaid principle equally applies to a void transaction and in view of Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, we are of the view that even void ab initio transaction must also be avoided by filing a suit within the period of limitation, otherwise, by virtue of an even void transaction, the title of the party would be lost." In the case of Mohd. Noorul Hoda Vs. Bibi Rafiunnisa and others20, the Apex Court has held that Article 59 of the Limitation Act is a general provision. In a suit to set aside or cancel an instrument, a contract or a decree on the ground of fraud, Article 59 is attracted. The starting point of limitation is the date of knowledge of the alleged fraud. Paragraph 06 of the judgment is reproduced below:- From the above legal proposition, it is clear that the Will is an instrument within the meaning of Article 59 of the Limitation Act and in case of plea of fraud and fraudulence having been taken to challenge the Will Deed, the period of limitation has to be counted from the date of knowledge of such fraud. It is to be noted that the suit for cancellation of Will Deed filed by the plaintiff/appellant was dismissed by the trial court on the ground of limitation being time barred. The first appellate court has upheld the findings of the trial court in this regard and has dismissed the appeal filed by the plaintiff/appellant. As per the facts borne out from the records, which have been proved beyond doubt that the suit for cancellation of the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 was filed on 21.11.1990. The trial court has taken into consideration the document 19Ga/2, objections filed before the Court of Tehsildar in the mutation proceedings by the plaintiff Smt. Sahodara and as per the said documents plaintiff Smt. Sahodara had got full knowledge of the Will Deed on 15.10.1987. The trial court has held that in view of above, the suit filed by the plaintiff/Smt. Sahodara was beyond time by 01 month 06 days. The lower appellate court has considered the statement of PW-1 Smt. Sahodara who had herself accepted that she got the knowledge of the Willl when she filed her objection on 15.10.1987 and later on she also stated that she had knowledge of the Will since the month of February. The lower appellate court has given specific findings that she had complete knowledge of the Will Deed on the date of filing of the objection i.e. on 15.10.1987. The learned lower appellate Court, as such has upheld the findings of the trial court and dismissed the appeal filed by the plaintiff/appellant holding that the suit was barred by the period of limitation. This Court has come to the conclusion that Article 59 of Limitation Act was attracted for the purpose of determining the period of limitation to file the suit for cancellation of Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 by the plaintiff and as per Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 03 years period was to be counted from the date of knowledge of the said Will Deed. The trial court as well as the appellate court have rightly come to the conclusion that the suit filed by the plaintiff/appellant was barred by time and and as such have dismissed the suit as well as the appeal filed thereafter. In the case of M/s. Craft Centre and others Vs. The Koncherry Coir Factories, Cherthala (Supra ), it has been held by the Kerala High Court that application of Section 3 of Limitation Act is mandatory and absolute. If a suit is barred by time, Court is duty bound to dismiss the same even at the appellate stage though issue of limitation may not have been raised. Para 04 of the judgment is reproduced below:- In the case of Kamlesh Babu and others Vs. Lajpat Rai Sharma and others (Supra), the Apex Court has held that it was the duty of the first appellate Court and also of the High Court to go into the question of limitation and decide the same before reversing the judgment of the trial court on various issues framed in the suit. Even though the various issues were decided in favour of the plaintiff both by the First Appellate Court and the High Court, the same were of no avail since the suit continued to remain barred under Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963 . The relevant paragraphs 17 and 18 of the judgment are reproduced below: This Court has come to the conclusion that the suit filed by the plaintiff/appellant was barred by limitation as it was filed beyond the period of limitation prescribed under Section 59 of Limitation Act. In view of above, even if the trial court had decided the Issue no. 2 in favour of the plaintiff/appellant and had opined that the Will Deed dated 7.1.1987 was obtained by fraud, the said findings were of no avail since the suit continued to remain barred under Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963 . So far as the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the lower appellate court has committed illegality in not making compliance of Order 41 Rule 31 C.P.C . while deciding the first appeal preferred by the plaintiff/appellant and it has led to non sustainability of the impugned judgment is concerned, it is to be noted that the lower appellate court in its judgment has mentioned the point of determination involved in the appeal. The lower appellate court has observed that the only one point of determination which arises for consideration is whether the suit was time barred. The lower appellate court has decided this point of determination by upholding the findings recorded by the learned trial court and coming to the conclusion that the suit filed by the plaintiff/appellant was filed after expiry of period of three years from the date of knowledge and, as such, was barred by time. As such, the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the learned lower appellate court has committed any illegality in not framing the points of determination in deciding the appeal filed by the appellant/plaintiff has no force. The case law relied in this regard has no applicability to the given facts of the case. The substantial questions of law formulated in the appeal are answered accordingly. In view of the legal proposition as discussed above and the reasons given in this judgment, the appeal is liable to be dismissed. There are concurrent findings of two courts below which are well reasoned and based on evidence on record. The Second Appeal is dismissed. Order Date :- 21.12.2017
 
Arjun/- [Ritu Raj Awasthi, J.]