Twitter has named Parag Agrawal as its new Chief Technology Officer, as per the company’s updated website. According to Agrawal’s LinkedIn, it been six month since he donned the hat of a CTO at the micro-blogging social network.

Agrawal, who hold a PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University, and studied B Tech from IIT Bombay had joined the company in 2011 as Distinguished Software Engineer. Previously he worked with companies like Microsoft and Yahoo.

Quoting a Twitter’s spokersperson, this CNBC report writes that Agrawal will focus on technologies such as machine learning and AI for the company.

Agrawal’s appointment comes at a time when Twitter is battling against abusive behaviour by users. The micro-blogging site has been criticized over the years for being indifferent to the use of its platform for harassment, bullying, abuse, automated bot spam and more. Twitter has been taking actions to r educe the visibility of content that seemed spam-like or abusive with the use of automated algorithms. This also led to accusations of “shadow banning” on the basis of political views. (Shadow banning is the reducing of the visibility of an account without blocking it, so that the messages are no longer visible to others as a part of activity streams or search results, while the person posting the message simply believes that no one is interacting with their messages.) In October, co-founder and CEO Jack Dorsey announced that they would “take a more aggressive stance” against online harassment that included “unwanted sexual advances, non-consensual nudity, hate symbols, violent groups, and tweets that glorifies violence”. Read our full coverage of Twitter here .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event