SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: India is not a Democracy | We shifted to demagoguery in the past 7 Years:-
DATE: 2021-06-01
SCORE: 210
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/nplobg/india_is_not_a_democracy_we_shifted_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fLJBzhcSWTk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fLJBzhcSWTk)

"In Book VI, Socrates points out the “flaws of democracy by comparing a society to a ship.” If you were going on a sea voyage, “who would you ideally want deciding who was in charge of the vessel, just anyone, or people educated in the rules and demands of seafaring?” Unless we wish to be obtusely contrarian, we must invariably answer the latter, as does Socrates’ interlocutor Adeimantus. Why then should just any of us, without regard to the level of skill, experience, or education, be allowed to select the rulers of a country?

The grim irony of Socrates’ scepticism, de Botton observes, is that he himself was put to death after a vote by 500 Athenians. However, rather than the typical elitism of purely aristocratic thinking, Socrates insisted that “only those who had thought about issues rationally and deeply should be let near a vote.” Says de Botton, “We have forgotten this distinction between an intellectual democracy and a democracy by birthright. We have given the vote to all without connecting it to wisdom.” (He does not tell us whom he means by “we.”)

For Socrates, so-called “birthright democracy” was inevitably susceptible to demagoguery. Socrates “knew how easily people seeking election could exploit our desire for easy answers” by telling us what we wanted to hear. We should heed Socrates’ warnings against mob rule and the dangers of demagoguery, de Botton argues, and consider democracy as “something that is only ever as good as the education system that surrounds it.” It’s a potent idea, and one often repeated regarding a [similar warning from Thomas Jefferson](http://tjrs.monticello.org/letter/327)."

&amp;#x200B;

I totally agree with the view of Socrates, Democracy is easily exploitable, What's your view towards the video and What sort of things we implement to stop this exploitation, As right now a Sweet seller (Isn't it an irony that our PM sold Chai back in days) is our PM. If you don't know what is a sweet seller then watch the video above to have an overview of this.

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: "consider democracy as “something that is only ever as good as the education system that surrounds it.” - Sokratis

I mean now you understand why all the budget were thrown into other stuff than setting up a proper education system.

Edit 2: I didn't know who Sokratis was until, I played Assassins Creed Odyssey exploration mode and I search about him after that, He is one of the most intellectual minds, Human kind saw in the span of their existence.

Edit 3: Few of people didn't even watch the video and get the graspe of whole concept here. Socrates just convey a loophole in democracy. He simply said that any person who know how to sell the easy idea to masses can always be ahead of people who don't know how to do it. Selling a scam to illeterate is easy, Selling it to educated is hard and only few get scammed. Same, Many MPs and MLAs just enter into the governance system by selling easy ideas to masses. So, we are just discussing that what we could do to stop this abuse of loophole in democracy. 

Also, Believe that No system is perfect. A mere 18+ can vote is also a criteria, So we either need to educate people enough or force them to get education. A mere elegibilty criteria based on some education could be the answer, Or maybe pushing eligibility criteria to enter into the governance.... anyway these views and ideas need more discuss as each ones have there own benefits and drawbacks but we are an educated society, We suppose to test and implement things as soon as we feel that old system is getting misused..