The aforesaid appeal has been filed by the assessee
against the final assessment order dated 26.11.2015, passed by
the DCIT, Circle 1(1)(2) (International Taxation), New Delhi, (A0)
for the quantum of assessment passed under section 143(3) read
with 144C(13) of the Act for assessment year 2012-13, in
pursuance of direction given by the Dispute Resolution Pantel-1,
New Delhi (DRP), vide order dated 16/10/2015. 1. In the grounds of appeal, the assessee has raised the
following grounds:- 2. The sole issue raised by the assessee is the taxability of
receipts on supply of software which has been treated as royalty
and held to be taxable both under section 9(1)(vi) and also in
terms of Article 12(3) of India USA Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement (DTAA) by the AO; and part of receipts as fee for
technical services/fee for included services. 3. The brief facts qua the issue involved are that, the
assessee-company is incorporated under the laws of State of 3 Delaware, USA and is provider of products and services for
automating the management, compliance and secure use of open
source software in multi source development at enterprise scale.
It provides its customers a non-exclusive; non-transferable
license for the programs in which the company normally deals.
The customers subscribe for these licenses for a specified period
as per the agreement entered into with the assessee-company. 4. During the year under consideration, the assessee had
sold software under a "Master License and Subscription
Agreement" with two entities in India, namely, (a) Infosys
Limited; and (b) Robert Bosch Engineering and Business
Solutions Limited. The Assessing Officer in the impugned
assessment order has reproduced the relevant clause of the
"Master License and Subscription Agreement", which is very
crucial for the purpose of our adjudication, hence is reproduced
hereunder:- 2.4 License Restrictions: This is not a perpetual license,
 and customer has no right to retain or to use the Program
 after termination of the Applicable Subscription period for
 any reason. Customers may not permit access or use of the
 Programs for any users other than the Users licensed and
 paid for by the Customer. Customer may make a reasonable
 number of copies of the Program exclusively for inactive back
 up, disaster recovery, failover or archival purposes.
 Customer has no right to rent, lease, assign, transfer, sub
 license, display or otherwise distribute or make the Program
 available to any third party. Unless otherwise expressly
 stated in this Agreement or the Applicable Supplement, the
 Program may not be used (a) in the performance of services
 for or on behalf of any third party or as a service bureau or (b) in connection with the analysis of any Code other than
 the Managed Code Base. Except to the extent Black Duck
 may, in certain jurisdictions be required by law to permit
 reverse engineering. Customer may not modify, disassemble,
 decompile or otherwise reverse engineer the Program nor
 permit any third party to do so. Black Duck reserves all
 rights not expressly granted to the Customer under this
 Agreement. The use of Black Duck's intellectual property
 beyond the scope of the license expressly granted is
 acknowledged and agreed to be outside the subject matter of
 this Agreement. 5. The Assessing Officer required the assessee to show
cause as to why receipts from providing software license to its
customers along with certain services, should not be taxed as
'royalty'. In response the assessee filed its detailed submission
vide letter dated 3/2/2015. The sum and substance of assessee's 5 submissions before the Assessing Officer can be summarised as
under:- Ø The assessee also referred and relied upon definition of
 Copyright as defined in section 14 of the ' Copyright Act,
 1957 ' and also section 52 of the Copy right Act, 1957 and
 contended that sale of computer software under a license
 can only be treated as sale of copyrighted article, which
 cannot be taxed as royalty, hence there is no infringement
 of copyright in terms of section 52 of Copy right Act, 1957.
 Heavy reliance was placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble
 Delhi High court in the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd [2014]
 220 Taxman, 273 (Del). Thus, it was submitted that consideration for sale of software
was not taxable under Article 12 of India USA DTAA; and since
assessee did not had any permanent establishment in India,
therefore, consideration for sale of software would not be taxed as
business profits also under Article 7 of the Tax Treaty. 6. The Assessing Officer first of all dealt with the definitions of
term "royalty" as given in Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi) and
also Explanations 4 and 5, which was added by the Finance Act,
2012 with retrospective effect from 1/6/1976. Thus, he held that
in terms of such amendment in section 9(1)(vi) , the Legislature
made it amply clear that transfer of any right, including granting
of a license in respect of copyright, shall be taxed as royalty. Not
only that, he also held that definition of royalty as contained in
Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi) and also definition given in Article 12(3) of India USA DTAA, both take into account the
industrial as well as copyright royalty. AO also referred to various
CBDT Circulars and came to the conclusion that receipts of
assessee pertaining to licensing of software are taxable as royalty 7 under section 9(1)(vi) . Thereafter, he proceeded to hold that even
 under the treaty, the payment received by the assessee was in
 the nature of royalty within the terms of Article 12(3) of India
 USA DTAA also. In his order, he has referred to various
 Literatures and Report on High Level Committee on Taxation and
 e-Commerce and other commentaries to justify the intention of
 the Government of India and code of royalty as defined in the
 treaty. He also referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case of DIT vs. Ericsson A.B. (2012) 343 ITR 470
 and the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd. (supra). Though he
 acknowledged that these judgments were squarely in favour of
 the assessee, but he noted that Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in
 the case of CIT vs. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. [2012] 345
 ITR 494 was in favour of the Revenue which has to be followed.
 In his assessment order, he has tabulated to make a comparison
 of the decisions of various Courts on this issue, which is
 reproduced as under:- section
9(1)(vi) ? 2. Taxable Yes Yes Does not Does not Does not
as royalty amount to amount to amount to
under "royalty" "royalty" "royalty" DTAA? 3. Copyright Copyright Copyright Copyright Copyright
Copyright copyrighted copyrighted copyrighted
or Article Article Article
copyrighted
article? Based on the aforesaid comparison of various decisions and also
 his own analysis, he held that the amount received from supply
 of software would be taxable in India as royalty income under Article 12(3) of the India USA DTAA also. He further held that
 service portion though do not specify into contract or invoices
 shall be subjected to tax as fee for technical services/fee for
 included services. 7. The DRP reiterated the entire finding of the Assessing
 Officer and refused to follow the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (supra) by holding that
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has not examined the decision of 9 the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT vs. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd. (supra). 8. Before us, the ld. Counsel for the assessee, Shri
Abhimanyu Jhamba, submitted that the assessee being a non-
resident company and is tax resident of USA, has short shelter of
treaty under India-USA DTAA. He submitted that it is settled
proposition of law at least in the jurisdiction of Hon'ble Delhi
High Court, that amendment in the domestic legislation i.e. in
the Income Tax Act by Finance Act, 2012 by way of insertion of
Explanation 4, 5 and 6 to section 9(1)(vi) whereby scope and
definition of royalty has been expanded retrospectively, cannot be
imported into the treaty. In support, he strongly relied upon the
judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of DIT vs.
Nokia Networks [2013] 358 ITR 259 (Del). He further submitted
that so far as issue of permanent establishment in India is
concerned, the Assessing Officer and the DRP have not
mentioned anything despite assessee's categorical submission
before both the authorities, this inter-alia, can be inferred that
question of taxability under Article 7 does not arise at all, in case
if it is to be held as business income. 9. Coming to the issue whether it is a royalty within the
terms of Article 12(3) , he submitted that recital of the agreement
clearly shows that there is no infringement of copyright in any
manner. Since the copyright has not been defined in the Income
Tax Act , therefore, the meaning given in section 14 and 52 of the
' Copyright Act, 1957 ' has to be considered. He pointed out that as
per the terms of agreement, the assessee only gives non-exclusive
and non-transferable license to the customers for a specified 10 period only. The customers have no right to use the software
after the subscription period or can make copies of the software.
Under the agreement the customers have no right to rent, lease,
assign, transfer, sub-license, display or otherwise distribute or
make the program available to any third party. This only goes to
show that, what assessee is selling to its customers is
copyrighted article and not copyright in the article. It is a kind of
providing a standard shrink wrapped software to its customers,
which is provided at an enterprise level to provide secure access
of open source software. The assessee's customers like Infosys
use a lot of open source software for carrying out their business
activities. Since such open source software are susceptible to a
lot of online viruses and cyber frauds etc., therefore, the software
sold by the assessee to such customers' works in the nature of
an Anti Virus Software and protects the customer's open source
software so used by them. The access is given at an enterprise
level so as to protect the entire organization from any unwanted
viruses etc. Such software is comparable to software licenses like
Mc Afee, Kaspersky which are commonly sold in the market. The
customers of the Appellant use the software for their own use
only. They are not permitted to make copies of the
software and commercially exploit the software. The software
license sold by the assessee is only used by the enterprises for
their own protection against any kind of cyber issues. This can at
best be viewed as a sale of copyrighted article and not as an
infringement of copyright. 10. Relying upon the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (supra) and drawing our
attention to paragraphs 84 to 89 of the said judgment, he 11 submitted that here in this case also similar kind of software
license was given and even the terms of agreement was by and
large same. In that context, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court held
that India-USA Treaty still recognizes the difference between a
copyright and a copyrighted article. The Hon'ble High Court after
referring to another decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
the case of DIT vs. Nokia Networks (supra), held that, firstly,
amendment in section 9(1)(vi) cannot be read into treaty; and
secondly, granting license to use copyrighted software for
licensees' own business purpose, cannot be brought to tax under Article 12(3) of India USA DTAA. The Hon'ble High Court has also
dissented from the judgment of Hon'ble Karanataka High Court
in the case of CIT vs. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (supra) which
has been strongly referred and relied upon by the revenue
authorities. He further relied upon the decision of ITAT Mumbai
Bench in the case of ADIT vs. Baan global, 29 ITR (Trib.) 73,
wherein the Tribunal, after detailed discussion on various
provisions of copyright and the judgments of various High Courts
on similar set of facts and software license agreement, held that
payment received for software license in such a situation cannot
be taxed under royalty and there is a distinction between
copyright and copyrighted article. Lastly, he referred and relied
upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT
vs. Alcatel Lucent Canada , 372 ITR 476, wherein again the
Hon'ble High Court held that sale of a software programme
cannot be taxed as royalty. Again the Hon'ble High Court has
reiterated its earlier judgments. Thus, in wake of several
Jurisdictional High Court judgment, the view taken by the
department to tax the receipts as Royalty has to be rejected. 11. The ld. CIT (DR), Shri Anuj Arora, though fairly agreed
that so far as "Master License and Subscription Agreement" is
concerned, clauses thereof for grant of license are clearly covered
by the ratio laid down in the judgment of the Jurisdictional High
court in the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (supra) and
consideration for sale of software would not be treated as royalty
if the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court is to be followed.
However, he tried to canvass before us that there was another
Supplement Agreement which was annexed to the "Master
License and Subscription Agreement" which provides for wider use
of software by various hands in the group. He first referred to the
clause 1.5; 1.11; 2.1; and 10.12 of the Master License agreement
which, for the sake of ready reference, are reproduced
hereunder:- 12. Then he pointed that Supplement Agreement indicates
that there are unlimited number of users; unlimited size of
managed code base; and terms of supplement agreement shall
prevail in the event of any conflict between the terms of
Supplement Agreement and Master License and Subscription
Agreement. Lastly, from the sample copy of supplement
agreement he pointed out that access is granted to all the
companies within the Robert Bosch Group, held under the
Robert Bosch GmbH holding in Stuttgart. Thus, he submitted
that the agreements entered into by the assessee mainly
supplement agreement clearly violates the principles laid down
by the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (supra) and, therefore, the said judgment
cannot be held to be applicable, especially if the supplement
agreement is to be looked into. 13. We have heard the rival submissions, perused the
relevant finding given in the impugned order of the DRP as well
as the material referred to before us and the judgments relied
upon. The sole issue involved in this appeal is, whether the
payment received by the assessee from supply of software, is
taxable in India as royalty in India or not; either under section
9(1)(vi) ; or under Article 12(3) of India USA DTAA; or both. Before
we proceed to decide the issue, at the outset it is quite clear that
the Revenue has not taken any stand that if it is not taxed as
royalty, then can it be taxed as business income in India and if it
is business income then whether there is any PE of assessee in
India. This is inferred from the fact that there is no rebuttal of
assessee's contention that it does not have any permanent
establishment in India, therefore, receipts from sale of software
will not be taxed as business income in terms of Article 7 of India
USA DTAA. At the outset, it is an admitted fact that the assessee-
company is tax resident of USA and has sought shelter under
India-USA DTAA, therefore, receipts in question has to be seen
from the angle, whether such receipts can be held to be taxable,
especially as royalty in terms and scope of para (3) of Article 12. The assessee had sold software under "Master License and
Subscription Agreement" to two customers in India namely,
Infosys Limited and Robert Bosch Engineering and Business
Solutions Limited. The "Master License and Subscription
Agreement" defines the license and license restrictions in the
following manner:- 2.4 License Restrictions: This is not a perpetual license, and
customer has no right to retain or to use the Program after
termination of the Applicable Subscription period for any
reason. Customers may not permit access or use of the
Programs for any users other than the Users licensed and
paid for by the Customer. Customer may make a reasonable
number of copies of the Program exclusively for inactive back
up, disaster recovery, failover or archival purposes.
Customer has no right to rent, lease, assign, transfer, sub
license, display or otherwise distribute or make the Program
available to any third party. Unless otherwise expressly
stated in this Agreement or the Applicable Supplement, the
Program may not be used (a) in the performance of services
for or on behalf of any third party or as a service bureau or (b) in connection with the analysis of any Code other than
the Managed Code Base. Except to the extent Black Duck
may, in certain jurisdictions be required by law to permit
reverse engineering. Customer may not modify, disassemble,
decompile or otherwise reverse engineer the Program nor
permit any third party to do so. Black Duck reserves all
rights not expressly granted to the Customer under this
Agreement. The use of Black Duck's intellectual property
beyond the scope of the license expressly granted is 16 acknowledged and agreed to be outside the subject matter of
 this Agreement." 14. From a perusal of the aforesaid scope of license, it is
quite apparent that the assessee provide to its customers a non-
exclusive; non-transferable license within the applicable
subscription period. The clause dealing with license restriction
clearly envisages that it is not a perpetual license and customer
has no right to retain or use the programme after termination of
applicable subscription period for any reason. The customers are
not permitted any access or use of the programmes for any users
other than the user's license paid for by the customer. Though
the customer is entitled to make reasonable number of copies of
the programme for inactive back up; disaster recovery; failover or
archival purposes, however, it has no right to rent; lease; assign;
transfer; sub-license; display or otherwise distribute or make the
program available to any third party. The customer is further
prohibited not to modify; disassemble; decompile or otherwise
reverse engineer the program nor can permit any third party to
do so. In other words, the assessee has all the rights not only on
the copyright in the software, but also debars its customers in
several ways as highlighted above. Thus, the payment, which has
been received by the assessee, is purely for copyrighted software
product as against payment for giving any right to use any
copyright in the software. The customers have a very limited right
to access copyright software for its own business purpose and
does not acquire any kind of right to exploit the copyright in the
software. These facts are uncontroverted in the impugned order.
Now on these facts, whether such action of granting of license to
customers can be reckoned as 'royalty' within the scope of Article 17 12(3) of the India USA DTAA? The relevant paragraph 3(a) dealing
with the royalty reads as under:- 15. The main emphasis is on use of or the right to use of any
copyright of a literary; artistic; or scientific work, which indicates
that an exclusive right to use any copyright in an article (which is
in the nature of literary; artistic; or scientific work) has to be
given. Since the copyright has not been defined or explained in
the treaty, therefore, meaning assigned of the copyright under
the domestic law, i.e. Copyright Act, 1957 can be referred for
understanding the true purport and meaning of copyright. Section 14 of Copyright Act, 1957 defines the copyright in the
following manner:- (i) to reproduce the work in any material form including
 the storing of it in any medium by electronic means; (ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being
 copies already in circulation; (iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the
 public; (iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in
 respect of the work; (v) to make any translation of the work; (vi) to make any adaptation of the work; (vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of
 the work, any of the acts specified in relation to the work
 in sub-clauses (i) to (vi); (b) in the case of a computer programme,- (i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a); (ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or
 for commercial rental any copy of the computer
 programme: 16. Further section 52 of Copyright Act, 1957 treats certain
acts as not infringing copyright, which is as under:- 17. The aforesaid section also makes it amply clear that
private use including research or to utilize a computer
programme for the purposes for which it was supplied or make
back-up copies is purely for the temporary protection against
loss; destruction or damage in order to utilize the computer
programme for the purpose for which it was supplied. This
doesn't enlarges the scope so as to reckon it as giving any
copyright. Hence under the Copyright Act , no use or right to use
of copyright has been given by the assessee to its customers in
terms of its licensing agreement. 18. The issue whether consideration received for granting of
license to use copyrighted software for licensee's own business
and whether can it be brought to tax as 'royalty' under Article
12(3) of India USA DTAA, is no longer res-intra at least in the
jurisdiction of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the wake of catena of
decisions, like DIT vs. Nokia Networks (supra); DIT vs.
Ericsson A.B. (supra); DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd. (supra); and CIT
vs. Alcatel Lucent Canada (supra). 19. In the case of DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd (supra), in fact the
license agreement was by and large quite akin to the license
agreement in the present case. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
its detailed judgment have analyzed this issue threadbare and
have come to the conclusion that mere transfer of right to use
copyrighted material, i.e., software programme cannot be taxed
as royalty in terms of Article 12(3) of India USA DTAA. The
Hon'ble Court also held that the amendment in the Domestic law,
that is, in the Income Tax Act cannot be read into the Treaty. The relevant observations and the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble
High Court in sum and substance are discussed hereunder:- Ø The parting of intellectual property rights inherent in
 and attached to the software product in favour of the
 licensee/customer is what is contemplated by the Treaty.
 Merely authorizing or enabling a customer to have the
 benefit of data or instructions contained therein without
 any further right to deal with them independently does
 not, amount to transfer of rights in relation to copyright
 or conferment of the right of using the copyright.
Ø The transfer of rights in or over copyright or the
 conferment of the right of use of copyright implies that
 the transferee/licensee should acquire rights either in
 entirety or partially co-extensive with the owner-
 transferor who divests himself of the rights he possesses
 pro-tanto. [Para 89] 24 Ø The license granted to the licensee permitting him to
 download the computer programme and storing it in the
 computer for his own use is only incidental to the facility
 extended to the licensee to make use of the copyrighted
 product for his internal business purpose. The said
 process is necessary to make the programme functional
 and to have access to it and is qualitatively different
 from the right contemplated by the said paragraph
 because it is only integral to the use of copyrighted
 product. Apart from such incidental facility, the licensee
 has no right to deal with the product just as the owner
 would be in a position to do. [Para 90]
Ø There is no transfer of any right in respect of copyright
 by the assessee and it is a case of mere transfer of a
 copyrighted article. The payment is for a copyrighted
 article and represents the purchase price of an article
 and cannot be considered as royalty either under the Act
 or under the DTAA. [Para 91]
Ø The licensees are not allowed to exploit the computer
 software commercially, they have acquired under licence
 agreement, only the copyrighted software which' by itself
 is an article and they have not acquired any copyright in
 the software. Ø In the case of the Assessee company, the licensee to
 whom the assessee company has sold/licensed the
 software were allowed to make only one copy of the
 software and associated support information for backup
 purposes with a condition that such copyright would
 include Infrasoft copyright and all copies of the software
 would be exclusive properties of Infrasoft.
Ø Licensee was allowed to use the software only for its own
 business as specifically identified and was not permitted
 to loan/rent/sale/sub-licence or transfer the copy of 25 software to any third party without the consent of
 Infrasoft. [Para 92]
Ø The licensee has been prohibited from copying,
 decompiling, de-assembling, or reverse engineering the
 software without the written consent of Infrasoft. The
 licence agreement between the Assessee company and
 its customers stipulates that all copyrights and
 intellectual property rights in the software and copies
 made by the licensee were owned by Infrasoft and only
 Infrasoft has the power to grant licence rights for use of
 the software. Ø The licence agreement stipulates that upon termination
 of the agreement for any reason, the licencee shall return
 the software including supporting information and
 licence authorization device to Infrasoft. [Para 93]
Ø The incorporeal right to the software, i.e., copyright
 remains with the owner and the same was not
 transferred by the assessee. The right to use a copyright
 in a programme is totally different from the right to use a
 programme embedded in a cassette or a CD which may
 be a software and the payment made for the same
 cannot be said to be received as consideration for the
 use of or right to use of any copyright to bring it within
 the definition of royalty as given in the DTAA.
Ø What the licensee has acquired is only a copy of the
 copyright article whereas the copyright remains with the
 owner and the licensees have acquired a computer
 programme for being used in their business and no right
 is granted to them to utilize the copyright of a computer
 programme and, thus, the payment for the same is not
 in the nature of royalty. [Para 94]
Ø It is not necessary to examine the effect of subsequent
 amendment to section 9(1)(vi) and also whether amount
 received for use of software would be royalty in terms 26 thereof for the reason that the assessee is covered by the
 DTAA, the provisions of which are more beneficial. [Para
 95]
 Ø The amount received by the assessee under the licence
 agreement for allowing the use of the software is not
 royalty under the DTAA. [Para 96]
 Ø What is transferred is neither the copyright in the
 software nor the use of the copyright in the software, but
 what is transferred is the right to use the copyrighted
 material or article which is clearly distinct from the
 rights in a copyright. Ø The right that is transferred is not a right to use the
 copyright but is only limited to the right to use the
 copyrighted material and the same does not give rise to
 any royalty income and would be business income. [Para
 97]
 Ø In view of above, it is concluded that the Tribunal was
 right in holding that the consideration received by the
 assessee on grant of licenses for use of software is not
 royalty within the meaning of article 12(3) of the DTAA
 between India and USA [Para 100] 20. The aforesaid points as highlighted from the judgment of
the Hon'ble High Court clearly clinches the issue in favour of the
assessee on the present facts. This ratio has been further
reiterated in CIT vs. Alcatel Lucent Canada (supra), the relevant
observation reads as under:- The software supply is an integral part of the GSM mobile
telephone system and is used by the cellular operator for
providing the cellular services to its customers. There could
not be any independent use of such software. The software
is embodied in the system and the revenue accepts that it
could not he used independently. This software merely
facilitates the functioning of the equipment and is an integral
part thereof. On these facts, it would be useful to refer 10
the judgment of the Supreme Court in TATA Consultancy
Services v. State of Andhra Pradesh [2004] 271 ITR 401 (SC),
wherein the Apex Court held that software which is
incorporated on a media would be goods and, therefore,
liable to sales tax. Following discussion in this behalf' is
required to be noted:- 56. A fortiorari when the assessee supplies the software
 'which is incorporated on a CD, it has supplied tangible
 property and the payment made by the cellular operator for
 acquiring such property cannot be regarded as a payment by
 way of royalty.' 6. This Court also noticed that the ITAT had in addition relied
 upon other judgment of this Court i.e. DIT v. Nokia Networks,
 or [2013] 358 ITR 259/212 Taxman 68/[2012] 25
 taxman.com 225." 21. Now before us, the ld. CIT D.R. had tried to canvass a
point that in the Supplement Agreement there is a stipulation of
unlimited number of users and unlimited size of managed code
base; and also access has been granted to all companies within
Robert Bosch group. He has also referred to corresponding 30 managed code base as given in point 1.5 of the Master License
and Subscription Agreement. (as reproduced in the foregoing
paragraphs) the managed code base has been defined in the
agreement as code base owned or controlled by the customer,
i.e., input into a program by customer and managed using that
programme over the course of the applicable subscription period.
Since the software is to be run at an enterprise level, managed
code base size has to be kept unlimited but within the
organization and is not meant to the outsiders. It has been
clarified before us by the ld. Counsel for the assessee that
software sold by the assessee is used as antivirus by the
customers for entire organization and access to such software is
IP based and is given to the server installed at the customer's
place, so that it can be used by the customer and all its
employees. It is not the case of the Revenue also that software is
being commercially exploited by the customers albeit it has to be
used only for private use within the organization. The other
reference of the meaning of 'Supplement' as given in clause 1.11
highlighted by the ld. D.R.(also incorporated above), it is seen
that 'supplement' means an order form, in the form and format
furnished by Black Duck, indicating Customer's desire to license
a Program or acquire services, pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement. This very clause enumerates that supplement is an
order form in a standard format issued to its customers. It is a
standard format which is used by the assessee to serve its
customers. The customer may have entered into an Agreement
with various Robert Bosch entities but the 'Supplement'
appended at Page 113 of the paper book which was referred to by
Ld. CIT DR is only for the software sold to Robert Bosch
engineering India. The Customer's name in the Supplement is 31 shown as Robert Bosch engineering India and the software sold
is 'Black Duck Protex' and access is given on one server of Robert
Bosch India only. This only means that an IP access is given to
the Robert Bosh India at an enterprise level. All the employees in
India can only use the antivirus software from the said server. If
such an access to unlimited users, i.e., employees within the
origination is not provided, then the secure software program
would be redundant and would not serve the purpose. The table
on the Supplement form clearly enunciates that the supplement
would be applicable for a limited subscription period. Location of
servers is mentioned, like India, Germany, United States, and
Singapore. It was clarified by the Ld. Counsel that the standard
format of the order form is used but a different agreement is
entered within such entities in various locations. But as the
column 3 in the table enunciates, the software is sold to be run
only on one server in India. Hence, the argument of the Ld. CIT
DR that access is granted to all servers is not correct. Software is
sold to be used only on one server in India and not in other
jurisdictions. Further, Ld. Counsel clarified that clause 2.3 of the
licensing agreement uses the word 'applicable supplement' which
suggests that supplement would be different for different
customers depending upon various customers. Though the order
form is standard, but they may be different in supplement
agreement so as to number of users, manage code, size base for
different customers. It is only with a view to provide flexibility to
customers, the clause subscription to overnight the Master
Licensing agreement have been inserted. Thus, he submitted that
the reference made by the ld. CIT D.R. to these clauses and also
supplement will not change the basic fact that what has been
sold by the assessee is purely a copyrighted software given for 32 use of the customers without transferring any kind of right to use
 and with lot of restrictions as given in clause 2.4 of the
 agreement. We completely agree with the clarification and
 submission made by the Ld. Counsel that supplementary
 agreement does not enlarge the scope of the main license
 agreement but only envisages providing access to all the persons
 within the enterprise. 22. Thus, in view of the discussion made above and
 respectfully following the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court,
 in the cases of DIT vs. Nokia Networks (supra); DIT vs.
 Ericsson A.B. (supra); DIT vs. Infrasoft Ltd. (supra); and CIT
 vs. Alcatel Lucent Canada (supra)., we hold that the payment
 received by the assessee does not fall within the ambit of 'royalty'
 under Article 12(3) of India USA DTAA and hence, the same
 cannot be taxed under the terms of India USA Treaty. If the
 receipts cannot be taxed under the treaty as royalty, then it
 cannot be taxed under the domestic law under section 9(1)(vi) Income Tax Act and the amended provision cannot be read into
 treaty as held by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in aforesaid cases.
 Accordingly, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 23. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 11th September,
 2017.