1. Notice of the writ petition was received by the office of the Chief Standing Counsel, High Court, Allahabad, on July 19, 2001. Case was listed before the Court on several occasions but no counter-affidavit filed by the respondents. No request made to file it till this stage of hearing. 2. Learned Counsels for the parties agreed that the writ petition be decided finally at the admission stage as contemplated under Chapter XXII, Rule 2-IInd Proviso, Rules of Court, 1952. FACTS: 3. One Anil Kumar Singh (father of the petitioner) working as Assistant Bhumi Sanrakshak Inspector in Government Department of State of Uttar Pradesh, died on 15.10.1998. His son, Ram Pratap Singh (petitioner before us), sought compassionate appointment on the ground of his father 'dying-in-harness' by filing an application on 5.4.1999, addressed to Soil Conservation Officer, Sharda Nahar Pranali, Pilibhit under relevant Rules, e.g., "THE UTTAR PRADESH RECRUITMENT OF DEPENDENTS OF GOVERNMENT SERVANT DYING-IN-HARNESS RULES, 1974 (Annexure--1 to the writ petition without the enclosures mentioned in it). The petitioner urged that, apart from him and his mother, he had two minor brothers namely, Ikshvaku Singh and Vineet Singh and that his family was in pitiable financial condition. 4. Petitioner sent another representation dated 26.4.2001, addressed to the Director, Agricultural U.P. stating that he had applied on 5.4.199, for appointment under 'Dying-in-Harness' quota and also that in the past he had sent reminders dated 25.11.1999, 19.4.2000, 19.8.2000 and 13.12.2000, to the concerned department but to no avail (Annexure-2 to the writ petition). 5. Commissioner/Administrator, Sharda Sahayak Samadesh Kshettra Vikas Pariyojana, U.P., Lucknow/Respondent No. 3 sent letter dated 27.1.1998 to the Bhumi Sanrakshak Adhikari, Sharda Nahar Pranali Bilsanda, Pilibhit directing for payment of pension, gratuity, Insurance, Provident Fund, etc. after submitting requisite papers in required proforma. Matter of compassionate appointment, according to him, was to be dealt by the concerned Agriculture Department to which the deceased employee belonged. The respondent No. 4/Soil Conservation Officer, Sharda Nahar Pranali, also sent a letter to the Director, Agriculture, U.P. for consideration of petitioner's" application for compassionate appointment in Government Service on compassionate ground under relevant Rules (Annexure-4 to the writ petition). 6. Similar letter dated April 29, 2000 was written by Agriculture Directorate, U.P. to Bhumi Sanrakshak Adhikari/respondent No. 4 and certain queries were made but no reply received. 7. Being aggrieved, petitioner filed present writ petition under Article 226 , Constitution of India on the ground, inter alia amongst others, that he be appointed in the Department of Agriculture the State Government on compassionate ground; inaction on the part of the respondents in the matter was arbitrary, illegal and violative of Articles 14 , 19(1) and (g) , 21 , 256 and 300A of the Constitution of India. 8. The petitioner, in the writ petition, prays :-- REASONS + CONCLUSION : 9. Petitioner is not entitled to the aforesaid reliefs for following reasons. 10. In the affidavit (sworn in July, 2001 by Ram Pratap Singh, the petitioner himself) filed in support of the present writ petition, the petitioner has mentioned his age 'about 20 years'. It shows that the petitioner was aged about 17 years only when his father died in October, 1998, i.e., minor and therefore, not eligible to seek appointment at the relevant time. In addition to this, it is to be noted that 'copy of the High School Certificate', though mentioned as 'enclosures No, 3' to the application (Annexure-1 to the writ petition) has not been filed on record and withheld from the Court; consequently it is not possible for the Court to ascertain otherwise date of birth of the petitioner and whether he was at all eligible to get 'compassionate appointment' when his father died in the year 1998. 11. Besides the above, 'Mark-sheet of B.Com Part-Ill Examination, 2001, dated 2.7.2001, (Annexure-6 to the writ petition) shows that petitioner pursued three year course and passed B. Com. Examination, 2001 from Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University, Gorakhpur. Aforementioned facts disclosed by the petitioner show that he could afford to pursue his graduation and completed B.Com course from Gorakhpur University in the year 2001. It could not be possible, if the family was in distress requiring immediate mitigation. In none of the representations petitioner mentioned that there was no other source of income. 12. The petitioner, therefore, fails to establish that the family of deceased employee (father of the petitioner) was/is in distress to justify 'compassionate appointment' under law. RE-CONSTITUTIONAL VALIDITY OF COMPASSIONATE APPOINTMENT : 13. One, Rakesh Tripathi on 10.8.2001, filed Civil Misc. Application No. 74162 of 2001, under Chapter XXII, Rule 5-A, Rules of Court, 1952 praying for permission to be heard in opposition to the writ petition contending, that in case Vacant posits' are filled on 'compassionate ground', without following normal procedure under relevant rules of appointment, valuable rights of other eligible candidates, including the applicant who are available and desirous for being considered for appointment in Government/Public Undertaking/Local Bodies/ Corporation etc. on merit, shall be seriously prejudiced, it tends to erode 'legitimate expectation' of such eligible candidates since they are altogether excluded and denied even an opportunity of seeking employment in Government department and the like. According to him, even if there are 'Dying-in-Harness Rules' compassionate appointments are ultra vires of the Constitution being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. This application was allowed on 13.8.2001, subject to the objection, if any, but no objection, however, filed/raised against the said application by any of the parties to the writ-petition. 14. Sri S.K. Rai, Advocate, appearing on behalf of Rakesh Tripathi, argued that appointments made on compassionate ground, ignoring other available eligible candidates is arbitrary and violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India because there is no nexus with the object sought to be achieved; eligible available candidates are denied 'opportunity of being considered in public employment', completely erodes 'legitimate expectations' of such candidates and has no 'logic' or 'rationale' since such compassionate appointment is made ignoring that family of some such available candidate may be in 'greater distress' requiring 'more-immediate-mitigation' than a family of an employee 'Dying-in-Harness'. Learned Counsel submits that on the ground of 'sympathy' no separate class can be legally carved out nor it is permissible in the matter of public employment under Article 14 , Constitution of India. Article 14 of the Constitution permits classification provided it is based on intelligible differentia having nexus with the object sought to be achieved, now a settled 'criterion of classification' laid down by the Apex Court-in the catena of its decisions. 15. It is contended that 'misplaced' reason is no 'reason'. To say that the only solution to 'mitigate hardship' and to ensure that family of a deceased employee is able to overcome 'distress (caused by cessation of income due to death of employee) is to give compensate appointment is a trite. 16. 'Mini-classifications based on micro-distinctions' are illusory, unreal and not warranted. Over doing of classifications is paradox of 'Equality'. The Court has to function always as a sentinel on the qui vive." 17. In the case of T.R. Kothandaraman v. T.N. Water Supply and Drainage B.D. , (1994) 6 SCC 282 ( Para 2), Apex Court observed-- 18. According to the learned Counsel appearing for Rakesh Tripathi aforesaid essential ingredients are conspicuously absent; no 'class' can be carved on the ground of 'sympathy' and the Rules, even, if framed shall be ultra vires the Constitution hit by Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. It is argued that no one can carve out a 'class' which is otherwise not permissible by Article 14 , Constitution of India. 19. It is further argued that the observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana , (1994) 4 Supreme Court Cases 138 and State of Haryana v. Rani Devi , AIR 1996 Supreme Court 2445, are 'per incuriam' and hence not binding 'precedents'. None of these decisions contain 
discussion or reasons on the point "whether classification' on the ground of 'sympathy' is legally permissible under Article 14 of the Constitution. 20. Learned Counsel, to elaborate his argument, contend that the 'object' is to provide succor to a family of deceased employee in distress'. In Supreme Court judgments reason given is that the only way to achieve said object is to give 'job' to one of the dependent. Learned Counsel vehemently argued that it is misplaced to say that the only 'option' is to give 'appointment' to one of the dependent of 'deceased employee'. What is to be compensated is the 'income'. Learned Counsel submits that 'reservation' on compassionate ground has traces of employment on the ground of inheritance which has been held to be bad by the Apex Court itself. 21. Sri Yaswant Verma, Advocate, appointed 'amicus curie' by the Court, submits that compassionate appointments are unconstitutional and arbitrary since based on artificial classifications which has no 'rational basis' or nexus with the object sought to be achieved. According to the learned Counsel, the 'only object', in case of an employee 'Dying-in-Harness' is to mitigate hardship in case of "distress in family", of an employee 'Dying-in-Harness'. It is argued that said object can be achieved by extending 'financial-support'. And therefore, to give job', by circumventing normal rule of appointment, is uncalled for. 22. This raises a Constitutional question i.e., 'whether a compassionate appointment is hit by Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India' ? 23. Sri H.S.N. Tripathi, Advocate, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, has adopted submissions made by the Counsels representing the respondents as dealt hereinunder. 24. The Standing Counsel, on behalf of the respondents, submitted that one of the principle of interpretation namely, 'reading down' is that in case a statutory provision is capable of two interpretations, the one which saves it from the attack of its being absurd or unconstitutional, should be adopted. The Court must look to the context, its back ground and the purpose sought to be achieved through the rules in question. In that context reference is made to Rules 5, 6, 8(2) and 9 of the Rules. 25. This argument is out of context in as much as in the case in hand there is no such contingency of two interpretations. 26. It is also argued, referring to the decisions reported in AIR 1973 Supreme Court 2602, Hari Prasad Mulshankar Trivedi v. V.B. Raju and Ors. (Para 23) and AIR 1964 SC 1573, B. Rajgopal Naidu v. State, wherein held that it is a wise tradition that Court do not adjudicate a constitutional question unless it is absolutely necessary to the disposal of the case in hand. 27. This proposition is also not relevant since the constitutional question in this case, has been urged and pressed by the learned Counsel representing Rakesh Tripathi'applicant-opposite party. 28. On behalf of the respondents, Standing Counsel referred to the following :-- Hold that.--- 29. Following questions emerge in the background of the submissions made by the learned Counsels for the parties-- (A) One whether the observations made by the Apex Court in the leading cases on compassionate appointment are 'binding precedent' or 'per -incuriam' ? On the aspect of 'per-incuriam', reference is made to the following decisions :-- In the case of Arnit Das v. State of Bihar , 2000 (5) SCC 488 : 2000 AIR SCW 2037 : AIR 2000 SC 2264 : 2000 Cri LJ 2971, while examining the binding effect of such a decision, this Court observed thus (Para 20): 2. (1991) 4 Supreme Court Cases 139, State of U.P. and Anr. v. Synthetics and Chemicals Limited and Anr. For ready Reference Court observations reproduced below : (Note : Judgment underline to lay emphasis)
 

It is to be noted that not a single decision is cited before me, wherein the question of such compassionate appointments being ultra vires of the Constitution being raised and considered by this Court or the Apex Court and this fact fairly conceded by the learned Counsels for the parties. (B) what is a valid classification under Article 14 of the Constitution of India?" (Underlines to lay emphasis) 2. 1975 (75) 3 SCC 76, Mohd. Shujat Ali v. Union of India, (Pr. 25 and 26) of the judgment read :-- 3. AIR 1956 SC 486, Bin Supply Company v. Union of India, (Paras 14 and 31), for ready reference, reproduced below :-- In another case Ram Prasad Narayan Sahi v. State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC 215: AIR V 40 (F), the same learned Judge said at page 219-- 4. (1989) 2 Supreme Court Cases 145, Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University and Anr. , Court again :-- 5. (1997) 2 Supreme Court Cases 65 (Paras 15 and 16), Thapur Institute of Engineering and. 'Technology v. State of Punjab and Anr. , the Apex Court held that in the matter of admission 'reservation for wards' of University "Employee was not permissible and held that there was no rationale nexus with the object sought to be achieved. 30. Reference be now made to the leading cases of compassionate appointments decided by the Apex Court-- 1. (1994) 2 Supreme Court Cases 718 (Prs. 10, 11,13 and 15), Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Asha Ramchandra Ambekar . 11. At this juncture we may usefully refer to Martin Burn Limited v. Corporation of Calcutta , AIR 1966 SC 529 : (1966) 1 SCR 543. At page 535 of the Report the following observations are found : The Courts should endeavour to find out whether a particular case in which sympathetic considerations are to be weighed falls within the scope of law. Disregardful of law, however, hard the case may be, it should never be done. 12........................... 13. It is true that there may be pitiable situations but on that score, the statutory provisions cannot be put aside. 2. JT 1994 (3) SC 525 (Para 2), Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana and Ors.,
 "2. The question relates to the considerations, which should guide while giving appointment in public services on compassionate ground. It appears that there has been a good deal of obfuscation on the issue. As a rule, appointments in the public services should be made strictly on the basis of open invitation of applications and merit. No other mode of appointment nor any other consideration is permissible. Neither the Governments nor the public authorities are at liberty to follow any other procedure or relax the qualifications laid down by the rules for the post. However, to this general rule which is to be followed strictly in every case, there are some exceptions carved out in the interests of justice and to meet certain contingencies. One such exception is in favour of the dependents of an employee dying-in-harness and leaving his family in penury and without any means of livelihood. In such cases out of pure humanitarian consideration taking into consideration the fact that unless some source of livelihood, is provided, the family would not be able to make both ends meet, a provision is made in the rules to provide gainful employment to one of the dependants of the deceased who may he eligible for such employment. The whole object of granting compassionate employment is thus to enable the family to tide over the sudden crisis. The object is not to give a member of such family a post much less a post for post held by the deceased." 3. AIR 1996 SC 2445 (Paragraphs 5 and 6), State of Haryana and Ors. v. Rani Devi and Anr. -- 4. (1996) 2 UPLBEC 843 (Prs. 9), Haryana State Electricity Board v. Naresh Tanwar and Anr. : 5. (1994) 1 Supreme Court Cases 192, Auditor General of India and Ors. v. G. Ananta Rajeswara Rao , it is held :-- 6. (1998) 2 Supreme Court Cases 412 (Pr. 5), State of U.P. and Ors. v. Paras Nath : 7. (1998) 5 Supreme Court Cases 192 (Pr. 8 and 10), Director of Education (Secondary) and Anr. v. Pushpendra Kumar and Ors. -- (Referring to AIR 1989 Supreme Court 1976, Sushma Gosain and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. and AIR 1991 Supreme Court 469. Smt. Phoolwati v. Union of India and Ors. ,) Apex Court observed :-- "8. The object underlying a provision for grant of compassionate employment is to enable the family of the deceased employee to tide over the sudden crisis resulting due to death of the bread-earner which has left the family in penury and without any means of livelihood. Out of pure humanitarian consideration and having regard to the fact that unless some source of livelihood is provided, the family would not be able to make both ends meet, a provision is made for giving gainful appointment to one of the dependants of the deceased who may be eligible for such appointment. Such a provision makes a departure from the general provisions providing for appointment on the post by following a particular procedure. Since such a provision enables appointment being made without following the said procedure, it is in the nature of an exception to the general provisions. An exception cannot subsume the main provision to which it is an exception and thereby nullify the main provision by taking away completely the right conferred by the main provision. Care has, therefore, to be taken that a provision for grant of compassionate employment, which is in the nature of an exception to the general provisions, does not unduly interfere with the right of other persons who are eligible for appointment to seek employment against the post which would have been available to them........ 10. The construction placed by the High Court on the Regulations governing appointment of dependants of teaching/non-teaching staff in non-Government recognised aided institutions dying-in-harness without result in all the vacancies in Class III posts in non-government recognised aided institutions which are required to be filled by direct recruitment being made available to the dependants of persons employed on the teaching/non-teaching staff of such institutions who die-in-harness and the right of other persons who are eligible for appointment to seek employment on those posts by direct recruitment would be completely excluded. On such a construction, the said provision in the Regulations would be open to challenge on the ground of being violative of the right to equality in the matter of employment inasmuch as other persons who are eligible for appointment and who may be more meritorious than the dependants of deceased employees would be deprived of their right of being considered for such appointment under the rules. A construction which leads to such a result has to be avoided..............." (Note-above judgments underlined to lay emphasis)
 

30-A. The Apex Court, noted that such appointment on the ground of sympathy shall be unconstitutional and hit by Articles 14 and 16 , Constitution of India, [See Nagpal (supra)]. The Apex Court, as seen from the above quoted decisions, approved of compassionate appointment by way of exception to Article 14 , Constitution of India with a sole object to mitigate hardship caused due to sudden death of deceased employee, the sole 'bread earner' in the family. 31. Element of 'Equality' lie in the heart of Article 14 , Constitution of India and it is the basic fibre which cannot be sacrified in the garb of artificial and micro classifications based on hypothetical reasonings no justified by offering ill mentioned excuse. 32. In the case of Auditor General of India (supra), Apex Court, observed : "who needs immediate appointment........." against its "to supplement the loss of income from the bread winner to relieve the economic distress of the members of the family.........". This shows that entire premise in view of the 'object sought to be achieved' is not to give appointment but to extend financial support." 33. The Supreme Court itself categorically observed that compassionate appointment, unless 'Rules, are framed, for compassionate appointment, shall not be valid. The issue is how Rules, can be made to serve such appointment from being unconstitutional if the 'classification' itself does not satisfy validity criterion. 34. The broad issue is--'Whether offering 'appointment' on compassionate ground (i.e., sympathy) is the only option/solution to mitigate 'hardship and distress of the family of an employee dying-in-harness? Answer is an emphatic 'No'. Firstly, the Rules, as such, contain no provision to ensure that the-dependent who gets appointment shall continue to maintain other dependents. 35. The object for granting compassionate appointment is to enable family in 'distress' of a deceased employee 'Dying-in-Harness' who happened to be sole bread earner and to tide over sudden financial crisis precipitated due to 'sudden death' of such an employee purely out of humanitarian consideration and at best provide 'livelihood' to make two ends meet their 'affairs'. It is, therefore, more than apparent that the object is not to substitute 'bread-earner' with 'bread earner' but to ensure 'livelihood' (i.e., food, clothing, education of dependants and medical aid) to a family in distress-because of the 'Bread earner' - 'Dying-in-Harness', Loss of 'person' due to the death of an employee in service, cannot be made good by any mechanism. Family of such an employee if in 'distress' can be recompensated by financial aid. It is true that perfect compensation is hardly possible and money cannot renew a physique frame that has been better and shattered. Object is to, provide means to place claimant-family of an employee Dying-in-Harness is to place the fame as far as possible in the same position financially as it was before the death of the bread earner. 36. It is financial loss, if an employee dies in service, which can be made good by ensuring financial support for the period, deceased employee may have been in service. It is, with respect, anomalous and hard to believe and therefore, not possible to hold that offering job to a dependent alone is the solution. 37. The above view finds support from the observation made by Apex Court in the case of Director of Education (Secondary) and Anr. v. Pushpendra Kumar and Ors. (supra). The Apex Court itself observed :---"...........having regard to the fact that unless some source of livelihood is provided, the family would not be able both the ends meet............". 38. To achieve the said object Apex Court did not say- 'give a post for a post [See Nagpal (supra)]. 39. A 'welfare state' like our is free to initiate effective welfare scheme/s- and no one will be in a position to oppose. 40. It is well settled that sympathy cannot be allowed to over ride statutory provisions land/or Constitutional provisions, particularly when it is quality of the question of Welfare of the entire society and/or question of Governance. 41. The State, like ours is free to is wedded to 'solemn object' to serve the society at large, purely according to the mandate under Constitution of India. State cannot be allowed to look after 'welfare' of its own employees and their families alone. 42. In this context one may refer to "The Uttar Pradesh Benevolent Fund Scheme, 1997" which was floated with identical Aim, Object and purpose as the Compassionate Appointment Rules. Members of the scheme are provided financial assistance, subject to terms and conditions contained in the said Rule, including grant of advance by way of financial assistance to a member in case of permanent disability resulting in discontinuance of service of an employee. 43. U.P. Government issued Government Order dated 25.9.1985 (referring to Government Order dated 3rd October, 1978), which accompanied copy of the Rules for creation and regulation of U.P. Anukampa Nidhi. The said 'Compassionate Fund Rules' incorporated exhaustive provisions to ensure financial assistance in a deserving case, including care of education of the dependents and marriage of daughters of a deceased employee. Government also issued many more Government orders viz., dated 26.6.1989, 28.5.1993 and 16.6.1994, available in the Manual of Government Orders. 44. The Government or its instrumentalities under Article 12 , Constitution of India, can be required by statutory provisions to establish a Compassionate Fund with reasonably adequate corpus created by requiring nominal contribution from the concerned employee. 'Statutory Fund" so created can be used to ensure transfer of enough fund in the account of eligible person in the family of a deceased employee on the basis of summary scrutiny by a Competent Authority viz., Local highest authority or Head of the Department and such transferred fund shall be good enough to give dividends in the form of interest equivalent to the wages of a deceased employee and what he should have notionally earned from time to time till the age of superannuation or till a member of his family gets employment whichever may be earlier and capital transferred amount should be required to get automatically reverted to the 'corpus' of the fund. Family will became, on attaining notional superannuation of the decease employee, entitled to payment of family pension, gratuity etc. in accordance with relevant service rules and statutory conditions. 45. Underlying idea is to make sure that in case of 'distress' of a family of a 'deceased employee', immediate succor is provided to mitigate hardship and pull out such family members from 'distress' without affecting quality of 'governance' by making compassionate appointments- without following normal procedure of selection and in complete negation of merit ignoring, though available, more suitable and meritorious candidates. 46. There is one more aspect. For illustration, there may be a family in 'Distress' when the 'bread earner' who happened to be an Employee of the Government, etc. died in harness but here is no eligible person/s as his dependant (say all are minor). How the Rules contemplating Compassionate appointment shall achieve the object and family shall remain in distress. 47. A dependent of a deceased employee who is eligible for compassionate appointment under Dying-in-Harness Rules, if bright in studies, forced to accept compassionate appointment on a Class III or Class IV posts and thus compelling a talent to be wasted or mis-utilised, by forcing a bright boy to accept a clerical/ministerial job. Proper course would be to give financial assistance at the right time to such bright boy to complete his academic education and it is likely that he may prove in future a successful Doctor, Engineer, Lawyer or Professor, etc. or otherwise an asset to the nation. 48. On the other hand a dependant of a Government employee, who dies because of his erratic and undisciplined ways of life (like excessive consumption of alcohol or drugs and/or an employee who is guilty of financial irregularities, misconduct etc., also get job on compassionate ground as 'premium' of one's misdeeds. 49. There is no justification for the Government to make compassionate appointments of a dependant on an employee dying-in-harness ignoring families of those eligible candidates waiting in open market and whose families may be in still graver. 50. Employment in the State or its 'authorities' must be on merit alone as the interest of third party (namely, 'society'; at large) is also involved. 51. Compassionate appointment, in a way create reservation within reservation and it should be so high so as to destroy land make concept of equality guaranteed by Article 14 , Constitution of India, merely illusory. Reference may be made to AIR 1963 SC 649, AIR 1964 SC 179 and AIR 1967 SC 1283. 52. Compassionate appointments, as noted above, make reservation beyond permissible limit of 50%, approved by the Apex Court. By exceeding this limit, inefficiency in administration and governance is bound to seep in. Appointments, ignoring merit in public service, are bound to 'adversely' effect administrative efficiency' and as a result of it entire society is bound to suffer irreparably. 53. Long experience of 'compassionate appointments', in the Government establishments corporate/local bodies and Education institution, is not only sad but it has also completely belied the expediency of such appointment in the context of 'quality of service'/'quality of administion'. 'Compassionate appointment' of one of the dependent of the family of an employee 'Dying-in-Harness' has failed to achieve 'solemn object/purpose' for which the Rules were framed, namely to maintain other dependants in the family. It is a matter of common experience that whenever a dependant get job and as soon as his own family, he neglects others in the family. 54. The issues requires a fresh look and reconsideration bereft of 'emotions' and 'personal whims' or prejudices; since the issue concerns the 'society at large'. Compassionate appointment, in case death of an employee, of a State Government or a Corporation, etc., has done more harm than good to the Society at large. 55. A good law once upon a time in the past, may be rendered bad or irrelevant with the passage of time. [See JT 2003 (5) SC, Kapila Hingorani v. State of Bihar, and JT 2003 (6) SC 37, John Vallamttar v. Union of India]. 56. Short-cut 'charity' and popularity measures are to be avoided and endeavour to made to accomplish interest of the large community. Public necessity is subservient to individual necessity --"Necessitas Public Majot Et Quem Privata". 57. Introduction of compassionate appointment in case of an employee 'Dying-in-Harness', with an object to mitigate distress and hardship of a family of a deceased employee is commendable but not approved in law. It is a matter of common experience that a thing invented takes time to be perfected--"Nihil simul inventum est et perfectum". Hence the 'object' of compassionate appointment can still be achieved by ushering valid and legal statutory schemes other than by making 'compassionate appointments.' 58. We cannot loose sight of the fact that there can be no mechanism to ensure that a family of 'Government employee' will never be in distress. For example, financial assistance of a family of a Government employee, who has attained the age of superannuation and eligible for pension, may be as bad as another employee Dying-in-harness. There is no reason why a citizen who is similar situated or even worst is deprived of public employment and a dependant of an employee dying-in-harness be given appointment on preferential basis de hors statutory Rules of regular and normal appointment. 'Compassionate Appointments' in the State have become a virtual scam. Suitability is rarely assessed under Dying-in-Harness Rules. To illustrate the point reference may be made to the record of Writ Petition No. 29194 of 2001, Smt. Geeta Devi Mishra v. State of U.P. and Ors., wherein wife of deceased employee filed suit for declaration and partition against the other wife of the same employee claiming that movable assets be given to the Defendant 1st Wife and benefit under relevant compassionate appointment under Dying-in-Harness Rules be given by the department concerned to the plaintiff's Second Wife. Amazingly said suit was got decreed on the basis of compromise. Said writ petition was filed to issue 'Mandamus' to force authorities to give compassionate appointment in pursuance to Civil Court decree. 59. There are hundreds of cases coming before Court on the ground of forged 'Adoption', will etc. or belated claims on fabricated allegations and documents. Government Authorities have no agency or instrumentality to hold requisite enquiry and find out whether family of deceased employee is in distress or sometime employers own employees/officers/authority/collude for extraneous reasons and it has become a source of corruption in this state. 60. In another case of Hari Koran Nath Misra v. Director, Basic Education U.P., Lucknow and Ors., Writ Petition No. 1437 (SS) of 2001, petitioner claimed that his daughter Smt. Mamta was married to one Kuldeep Kumar Baujpai, she was murdered by her husband due to demand of dowry, husband obtained certificate of being legal heir of Smt. Mamta and on that basis obtained job under Dying-in-Harness Rules which was opposed by the father of said deceased, Smt. Mamta, through aforementioned writ petition. One cannot shut his eyes to the hard facts and of which this Court takes judicial notice, that provisions of compassionate appointment under Dying-in-Harness Rules are being put to sheer misuse with a volt face. 61. Compassionate appointment, in the State of U.P. in spite of Apex Court holding otherwise, become a job-security by succession inheritance in the contingency of death of a Government/Corporation employee. 62. Justice Ratnavel Padian, J., in the case of Indra Sawhney v. Union of India , AIR 1993 SC 477, observed :-- 63. Justice H.R. Khanna, in the Book 'Judging the Judges' by Gyan Publishing House--New Delhi--1999 Edition--in the chapter "The Role of the Judiciary" page 28--commented--".............Judicial decisions have to be backed by well reasoned arguments. You cannot say- no Judge of the highest Court can say, well look here 1 have given the decision that no constitutional law of land can challenge. 64. It is not out of place to mention that it is also now settled that what was 'legal' in the past, may by passage of time, in the context of changed circumstances in future become 'illegal'. 65. To sum up-(i) petitioner has failed on the facts of the present case, as discussed above, to prove 'distress' which could warrant compassionate appointment to mitigate hardship immediately to the family of deceased employee in question; and (ii) in the light of the discussion made above, Dying-in-Harness Rules do not stand the test of valid classification and therefore, the Rules contemplating compassionate appointments are hit by Articles 14 and 16 , Constitution of India; (iii) Respondents are directed to activate Compassionate Fund Rule and The U.P. Benevolent Fund Scheme, 1997, and to make it real; purposive and effective so as to achieve solemn object for which they are framed (iv) A copy of this judgment shall be sent to Chief Secretary for bringing the matter to the concerned and the State Government is mandated to take appropriate action in the light of the above. CONCLUSIONS : 66. Writ petition, consequently lacks merit and hence dismissed subject to the directions given above. 67. No order as to costs.