1. This Appeal has been preferred against the order dated

 04.03.2022 passed by the Respondent No. 1/Goa Coastal Zone Page 2 of 13 Management Authority (GCZMA), disposing the complaint filed by

the Appellant dated 11.01.2021 and discharging Respondent No. 4-

M/s Hermitage Builders Pvt. Ltd. 2. The second Appeal has been preferred against the order dated

23.12.2020 passed by the Respondent No. 1/Goa Coastal Zone

Management Authority (GCZMA) where-by permission has been

granted to Respondent No. 3-M/s. Hermitage Builders Pvt. Ltd. for

the erection of 10 wooden cottages, 1 shack/restaurant, toilet,

kitchen, watchman shed, staff-toilet in the property bearing Survey

No. 16/4, Village Sernabatim, Salcete, Goa, in terms of CRZ

Notification, 2011 as amended. 3. Since both the appeals are connected, we proceed to decide

both the appeals together. 4. The Appellant had made a complaint before the Respondent

No. 1/Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) on

11.01.2021 with regard to illegally putting up fencing and

construction of permanent nature using concrete in Survey No.

16/4, Sernabatim Village by Respondent No. 4 in No Development

Zone (NDZ) area where-on Notice was issued to Respondent No. 4 by

the Respondent No. 1/GCZMA for personal hearing dated 14-

15.01.2021. The Respondent No. 1 decided in a meeting on

25.01.2021 to direct Expert Members to carry out site inspection

and place a report before it. Pursuant to which the Expert Members

brought to the notice that the Respondent No. 4 had dug the

concrete bore well and over head tank with RCC/concrete. The Page 3 of 13 Respondent No. 4-M/s. Hermitage Builders Pvt. Ltd. had agreed to

dig the well with the permission of Water Resource Department

(WRD) just beyond 200 mtrs. line and also agreed to remove the

concrete structures on her own. Accordingly, vide order dated

25.02.2021, the Respondent No. 1 directed Respondent No. 4 to

remove all the concrete structures from the property and file

compliance report before the Authority/Respondent No. 1.

Thereafter, the Appellant had submitted before Respondent No. 1 on

17.06.2021 that the Respondent No. 4 had filed compliance report.

During pendency of the hearing on the complaint, the Respondent

No. 4 filed revision of plan and the same was approved by

Respondent No. 1/GCZMA. The Appellant/complainant also

submitted that Respondent No. 4 dug the bore well on the sand

dunes in the No Development Zone and water was being pumped out

using a water pump and also dumped fresh mud in No Development

Zone area. Against the same, the Respondent No. 4 had submitted

that mud had been brought for the plantation purpose which was

permissible activity under CRZ Notification, 2011 and the bore well

was constructed with the permission from the Water Resources

Department (WRD) in the year 1999 and the same was beyond the

No Development Zone. The Respondent No. 4 also stated that a

detailed compliance was filed by him in terms of report of the Expert

Member of GCZMA and removed all the violations. 5. With regards to fencing, it was submitted by Respondent No. 4

that it was not removed as a measure to facilitate bio-fencing and

the same would be removed once the bio fencing was stable. In the Page 4 of 13 meeting of Respondent No. 1 dated 24.06.2021, it was decided that a

fresh inspection would be carried out with respect to new plan

submitted and whether the compliance was made in the light of the

observations made by the Expert Member in their report dated

02.02.2021. Pursuant there-to, the Expert Member Shri Mahesh

Patel inspected the site on 21.07.2021 and its copy was provided to

the parties. The Complainant/Appellant had pointed out that the

contents of the report were not correct as per the site and that it was

conducted in his absence on a holiday. The cement platform of the

bore well has been stated to have been removed yet, the photograph

annexed, showed that there was an existence of concrete base to the

pump. The Expert Member had failed to mention the poles and wire

mesh of concrete and were continued to be stabilised with concrete

on sand dunes. The Expert Member further suggested the fencing to

be removed after the trees had grown to the height of 3 meters for

retaining the illegal concrete fencing which threatened the collapse

of the sand dunes, which is a violation of Environment (Protection)

Act, 1986 as well as CRZ Notification, 1991/2011. The

Complainant/Appellant stated that the said bore well could not be

allowed, as the area fell in CRZ-I and refused to accept this site

inspection report and demanded for a fresh site inspection and

thorough investigation. 6. On the other hand, the Respondent No. 4 stated that he had

complied with all the directions and removed all temporary

structures. It was also stated by him that no pump was attached to

the bore well; he undertook to use hand pump, if required, in its Page 5 of 13 place. He assured that red mud is the soil which will be used in the

pit for plantation and that the bore well is sunk with the permission

from Water Resource Department (WRD). 7. The matter was considered on 08.02.2022 by Respondent No.

1 and derived following conclusions:- The same shall be removed from the property without
 using it. 4) A bore-well has been dug in the property along the
 northern boundary. We were informed by the respondent
 that about 5000 liters of water is being drawn daily for
 irrigation and construction purpose. A shed for housing the
 pump has been constructed along with cement flooring
 around the bore-well. Construction of bore-wells and
 extraction of ground water is prohibited in NDZ areas. 5) A 5000-liter capacity polyethylene water tank (Sintex) has
 been placed on a concrete on the mound at the eastern end
 of the property. 6) Casuarina and other species are being planted along the
 boundary of the property. 7) (a) All above offending structures, namely, the RCC fencing
 poles, the shed structures and the polyethylene water tank
 built/erected without prior permission from GCZMA may
 be removed from the site without causing any damage to
 the coastal ecology. (b) The bore-well may be sealed by WRD to prevent further
 extraction of ground water within the NDZ. The Respondent has filed compliance in the above matter
 and has stated as under: Page 6 of 13 The Authority perused the reply/compliance dated
17/06/2021 and the photograph produced by the
Respondent showing that he has demolished the water
tank platform. The Respondent states that to the observation at Point 7 (b)
of the report dated 1/2/21; the Respondent states that the
bore-well is beyond 200 mts. from HTL and that the same
is dug in pursuance to the approval dated January 1999
issued by the Water Resources Department. Page 7 of 13 The Authority noted that the Respondent has supported
 his contention by producing photographs and also by
 producing Form III which is a certificate of registration of
 an existing well in property bearing sy no 16/4 and is
 valid till 31/03/2025. The Authority noted that the Respondent via their
 compliance report has clearly stated that he has complied
 with the Directions of this Hon'b1e Authority by further
 removing the concrete platform which was built around the
 bore well. The Respondent has also produced photographs
 on record." 8. Thereafter, the Respondent No. 1 decided to inspect the site in

dispute, in order to verify the authenticity of the compliance report

submitted by the Respondent No. 4 and following was observed:- meter NDZ line. Bore well is registered with Water
 Resource Department. CRZ regulations allows only
 open well within CRZ area. Therefore, either hand
 pump be fitted or convert it into open well, for irrigation
 to the plantation purpose, after due permission from
 that Water Resources Department. (v). that the staff toilet and other structures are removed. (vi). that the Project proponent in the modified plan, has
 proposed a stilted pathway to beach and bamboo
 fencing around, the sand mounds/ open space, an
 innovative approach to safeguard the sand and
 vegetation. This practice is followed in developed
 countries and should be encouraged. This will protect
 the sand mound, vegetation, and further strengthen its
 growth to prevent erosion." 9. In view of above, the Respondent No. 1 found that the

complaint made by the Appellant had no force and the same was

dropped. Page 8 of 13 10. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant challenged this order

on the ground that the bore well was lying in CRZ-I where no such

permission could be allowed as the same fell within 200 meters of

the NDZ line. 11. During the arguments, it has transpired that the said bore well

has been closed which is admitted by the Learned Counsel for the

Appellant also. Hence, as regards the erection of bore well within No

Development Zone (NDZ), no grievance survives to the Appellant. 12. At this stage, we have to see as to whether the permission to

construct 10 wooden cottages, 1 shacks/restaurant, toilet, kitchen,

watchman shed, staff-toilet could have been given by the

Respondent No. 1, in favour of Respondent No. 4. In this regard, the

main emphasis has given by the Learned Counsel for the Appellant

on that the said construction could not have been permitted because

the Survey No. 16/4 fell in NDZ as well as in sand dunes' area and

according to the CRZ Notification, 2011 under provision 8 (3) of CRZ

of Goa, the same shall be regulated and the following is provided:- 13. Having drawn attention to this, it is vehemently argued that

the permission granted for raising the said construction is in

violation of the above provision. 14. As against this, from the side of Respondent No. 1 and

Respondent No. 4, the reliance is placed on the affidavit of

Respondent No. 1/Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority

(GCZMA) where-in it is submitted that the NCSCM, Chennai has

done mapping of the sand dunes in the said area where the

temporary huts are allowed to be erected and as per it Survey No.

16/4 of Village Sernabatim does not figure on the sand dunes plan

of Salcete, Goa. 15. Further, it is submitted that NOC granted to the Respondent

No. 4 by Respondent No. 1/GCZMA, was upon fulfillment of the

conditions laid down in the 'Beach Carrying Capacity Report' and

further conditions. 16. It is further submitted in the affidavit that when the Expert

Member visited the site, it was observed that there was an area

feasible for erecting the huts, therefore, any apprehension in the

approval by the Appellant, is totally uncalled for. 17. We have also gone through the affidavit of Respondent No. 4,

in it, the same stand has been taken, which has been taken by the

Respondent No. 1 in their affidavit mentioned above. In addition to Page 10 of 13 that, the Learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 4 has vehemently

argued that the 'Beach Carrying Capacity' was taken into

consideration at the time when the permission was granted. The

argument of the Learned Counsel for the Appellant is that according

to the policy framed by the GCZMA/Respondent No. 1 on

15.11.2016, following was decided:- 18. Thereafter, he has drawn attention to page no, 70 of the paper

book where-in a table is given and in respect to Village Colva where Page 11 of 13 the present properties in question lies, in Column- 'O'; it has been

observed that in "Rural intensive infrastructure area", as the area is

not fulfilling the criteria at Column 'M' and also closed to the limit in

Column 'L', "no additional shacks, huts/Tents/cottages to be

considered". 19. Having drawn attention to this, it is vehemently argued by the

Learned Counsel for the Appellant that the Respondent No. 1 itself

has a clear policy that no additional shacks/huts or any

construction should be permitted in the area in Colva where the

present property in question lies. Therefore, the permission granted

for raising the above mentioned construction, is in violation of this

policy, hence, the said permission needs to be quashed. 20. We are of the view that, in view of the report of NCSCM,

Chennai, it is clear that the Survey Number in question does not

contain any sand dunes, therefore, it cannot said to be NDZ rather it

is stated to fall in CRZ-III according to the Respondent No. 1. We

hold that on this count, permission could have been granted to the

Respondent No. 4 by the Respondent No. 1, in respect to the said

construction. But in view of the policy laid down by the Respondent

No. 1 through its Minutes dated 15.11.2016, decision of which is

quoted here-in above, it is clear that GCZMA has decided not to

allow any further construction of huts etc. in the Survey Number in

question and yet has proceeded to allow the said construction which

appears to be in violation of the said policy. Keeping in view the

precautionary principle, we are also of the view that no such Page 12 of 13 construction should have been allowed by GCZMA in the said area

without clearly mentioning as to whether the permission granted of

the said construction, would fall within the Beach Carrying Capacity

or not. Therefore, in view of this non-clarity on the part of the

Respondent No. 4, both the impugned orders dated 04.03.2022 and

23.12.2020 need to be set aside and are accordingly set aside with a

liberty that in case, Respondent No. 4 approaches the Respondent

No. 1 again with respect to raising the construction of temporary

huts, etc., the same should be considered in the light of the 'Beach

Carrying Capacity' on the date of its consideration. 21. Accordingly, both the Appeals stand disposed of. 22. I.A. No. 116/2022(WZ) also stands disposed of. Dinesh Kumar Singh, JM

 Dr. Vijay Kulkarni, EM

September 28, 2022
Appeal No. 13/2022 (WZ)
With
Appeal No. 21/2022 (WZ)
I.A. No. 116/2022(WZ)
P.kr Page 13 of 13