Global tech giant Meta plans to roll out and test premium subscriptions on Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp in the coming months, according to a BBC report .

Meta says it will soon offer users a premium version of these apps, with special features and greater control over how users share and connect, while keeping the core bundle of services free of cost.

Notably, the tech giant revealed that the premium set of features on Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp will also include expanded artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities.

Further, Meta told TechCrunch that it is going to test a variety of subscription bundles and features across its apps, with each subscription offering a unique set of exclusive features.

Pertinently, this development comes close on the heels of the tech giant announcing the imminent rollout of advertisements on the Threads platform. Meta said that advertisements on Threads will appear directly in users’ feeds and be available through Meta’s Ads Manager, allowing advertisers to extend existing Facebook and Instagram campaigns to Threads.

While it is still unclear what the premium features on Facebook and WhatsApp will look like, reverse engineer Alessandro Paluzzi notes that the new subscription option on Instagram will apparently allow users to:

Notably, Paluzzi often detects unreleased features during development.

However, it must be noted that the new subscriptions on Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp will be distinct from the Meta Verified feature. To explain, Meta Verified offers content creators and businesses a verified badge, impersonation protections, and 24×7 support, among other features.

While these offerings were not meant for non-creators and casual users, the new set of subscriptions will cater to a broader user base. Notably, Meta says it will use insights gathered from its Meta Verified operations to evolve its subscription business and fine-tune offerings for everyday users.

Meta told TechCrunch that it plans to scale its Manus AI agent as part of the latest subscription plans on Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp. The tech giant reportedly acquired the AI agent for $2 billion in December 2025. In terms of modus operandi, Meta plans to integrate Manus into its products while continuing to sell standalone subscriptions to businesses.

Apparently, the tech giant is already adding a shortcut to Manus AI on Instagram. Paluzzi recently shared a screenshot highlighting that Meta is working on adding this shortcut within Instagram’s settings page.

Furthermore, Meta plans to test subscriptions for other AI products as well, such as its Vibes video generation app, which Meta claims “can bring your ideas to life with new AI visual creation tools.”

Even though Vibes has been free since its launch in 2025, Meta now plans to offer freemium access to the app, with a subscription option that unlocks additional video creation opportunities each month.

When it comes to subscriptions on social media apps, Snap has proved that users are willing to pay for premium features. To explain, the Snapchat+ subscription, launched in June 2022, continues to remain a significant revenue generator for the company.

The number of Snapchat+ subscribers has more than doubled since early 2024, with the current subscriber count standing at over 16 million users.

As such, the launch of new subscriptions on Meta-owned social platforms could result in subscription fatigue for users. This means Meta must ensure that it rolls out genuinely unique offerings to secure a place within users’ monthly subscription budgets.

Importantly, Meta’s pivot towards premium subscriptions showcases the changing landscape of social media platforms today. It also reflects a significant shift in Meta’s own approach to revenue generation, especially given that Facebook’s homepage once famously displayed the message: “It’s free and always will be.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event