SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: From the fall of Islamabad to an attack on Karachi: 5 fake stories that Indian TV news ran with
DATE: 2025-05-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1kir2bg/from_the_fall_of_islamabad_to_an_attack_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

1. ‘Army chief Asif Munir arrested’

Early in the morning on May 9, Zee News published a story claiming that “reports” had emerged that Pakistani army chief Asif Munir had been “taken into custody by Pakistani authorities” because he had been working on “his personal agenda”.

Not only that, several channels of the network claimed that “General Sahir Shamshad Mirza was being considered as Munir’s possible replacement”.

2. ‘Karachi port destroyed’

Around 11 pm on Thursday, several Hindi, English and regional news channels began reporting that the Indian navy had opened another front against Pakistan. Some said that the Navy had “attacked and destroyed” the Karachi port. All of these claims were made either without attribution or by citing “sources”.

For example, ABP Ananda passed off a 37-second clip of an old Philadelphia plane crash scene as the aftermath of a strike by INS Vikrant on the Karachi port during their live broadcast, Alt News reported.

3. A fidayeen attack that was not

Amid all this sabre-rattling, Aaj Tak news anchors, Sweta Singh and Anjana Om Kashyap, went on air to report that terrorists had begun a “fidayeen hamla”, or a suicide attack on an army unit in Rajouri. They did not attribute this information to any official. Nor were other details forthcoming.

Later, Army officials told the news agency, ANI, that such reports “were completely false”.

4. ‘Pakistani cities destroyed, PM in hiding’

A persistent theme of the misinformation campaign run from TV studios was the destruction and humiliation of Pakistan.

Regional channels were not left behind in this campaign.

Assamese news channel News Live, which has one of the highest viewership in the state, reported that 12 cities in Pakistan had been destroyed in an Indian attack. Not only that, Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif was hiding in a bunker to save his life, the channel claimed.

5. Pakistan’s fighter jets ‘down’, and ‘a pilot captured’

Several news handles uploaded a deepfake video of a Pakistani Army General, admitting the loss of two fighter jets.

The Deccan Chronicle website uploaded the AI generated fake video on its Twitter handle, claiming that “India shot down two Pakistani JF-17s and one F-16 on May 8” and said it had been “confirmed by DGISPR, spokesperson for Pakistan armed forces”.

Even India Today reported this claim during a discussion, citing a Pakistani army official.