VASHRAMBHAI GOVINDBHAI MIYATRA
 Versus
 STATE OF GUJARAT
==========================================================
Appearance: 2. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nirupam Nanavaty
 assisted by learned advocate Ms. Kanara appears
 for the applicant accused submits that the FIR
 has been filed on 15th October, 2020 and present Page 1 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 applicant has been arrested on 16th October, 2020
 and since then he is in judicial custody. The
 investigation is already completed and after
 submission of charge-sheet present bail
 application is preferred. Learned Senior
 Advocate Mr. Nanavaty further submits that not a
 single FIR is registered against the present
 applicant accused before the promulgation of the
 GUJCTOC Act and after the promulgation of the
 GUJCTOC Act except the present compliant he is
 not involved in any other offence. Learned
 Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty submits that for
 the purpose of invocation of provisions of the
 GUJCTOC Act, certain essential ingredients are
 required to be fulfilled by the prosecuting
 agency, and more particularly, ingredients
 mentioned in the provisions of Section 2(1)(c)
 and 2(1)(f) of the GUJCTOC Act are required to
 be satisfied. Learned Senior Advocate Mr.
 Nanavaty has read the provisions of Sections
 2(1)(c) and 2(1)(f) of the GUJCTOC Act and
 submitted that present applicant accused has
 neither committed any offence as alleged nor he
 has abetted in commission of the offence as
 alleged. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty
 further submits that present applicant accused
 was working in the police department and during
 his tenure during the period between 2011 to
 2018 present applicant accused has carried out
 investigation in 11 offences against the members Page 2 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 and gang leader and at the end of the day,
 charge-sheet was also submitted before the
 competent Court and considering the services
 rendered by the present applicant accused at
 that relevant point of time he has been
 nominated and awarded Gallantry Award. Learned
 Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty further submits
 that in fact FIR has been filed against total 14
 persons and name of the present applicant
 accused is mentioned at serial No.5. At the end
 of the day, after completion of investigation,
 investigating officer has filed charge-sheet
 against 12 accused persons and remaining accused
 persons have been shown as absconder and yet
 they are not arrested. Out of 12 accused persons
 charge-sheeted, accused Nos. 1 and 3 have been
 enlarged on bail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court,
 accused Nos. 2, 4, 6, 10 and 13 have been
 enlarged on default bail and accused No.12 has
 been enlarged on bail by the Coordinate Bench of
 this Court. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty
 further submits that the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has not considered the bail application of
 accused No.9 - Atul Bhanderi considering the
 number of offences registered against him before
 and after the promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act.
 It is submitted that even though at the time of
 rejecting the bail application of the said
 accused, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has given
 specific direction that after the examination of Page 3 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 the protected witnesses and more particularly
 after the lapse of six months once again liberty
 is reserved to approach to the concerned Court
 for the purpose of getting bail. Learned Senior
 Advocate Mr. Nanavaty submits that the persons
 who have been enlarged on default bail are the
 main accused persons and grave role is
 attributed to them as per the case of the
 prosecution. Learned Senior Advocate Mr.
 Nanavaty further submits that the kingpin and
 gang leader Mr. Jayesh Patel has not been
 arrested. The role of the other co-accused
 persons whose bail applications have been
 considered by the Hon'ble Apex Court as well as
 Coordinate Bench of this Court is much graver
 than the present applicant accused. Considering
 the above stated factual aspects as well as the
 principle of law of parity, bail application of
 the applicant accused may be entertained. 3. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nirupam Nanavaty has
 also placed reliance upon the judgment of
 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State of
 Gujarat v. Sandip Omprakash Gupta rendered in
 Criminal Appeal No.2291 of 2022, and more
 particularly, relied on the observations made in
 para 51(f) and (g) of the said judgment and
 submitted that this is the only FIR filed
 against the present applicant accused and not a
 single FIR before the promulgation and after the
 promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act is registered Page 4 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 against the present applicant accused except the
 present FIR and therefore as observed by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the aforesaid decision,
 the case of the applicant accused would not fall
 under the definition of 'continuing unlawful
 activity' as provided in the GUJCTOC Act. 4. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty has also placed reliance upon the judgment dated
 04.05.2023 rendered in Criminal Appeal No.1391
 of 2023 in the case of Mukeshbhai Vallabhbhai
 Abhangi v. the State of Gujarat by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court and more particularly observations
 made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in para nos. 7
 and 8 of the said judgment . 5. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty has also
 relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Apex
 Court in the case of Anilbhai @ Mehtaji
 Dineshbhai Dangariya v. The State of Gujarat ,
 rendered in Criminal Appeal No.3286 of 2023 and
 submits that recently the co-accused Anilbhai @
 Mehtaji Dineshbhai Dangariya has been enlarged
 on bail by the Hon'ble Apex Court and at the
 time of releasing the said co-accused, the
 Hon'ble Apex Court has very succinctly observed
 that, besides the instant case, he does not have
 any other criminal antecedent. Learned Senior
 Advocate Mr. Nanavaty thereafter draws the
 attention of this Court to the role played by
 the said accused person and submits that the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has further observed that Page 5 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 there are 77 FIRs registered against the members
 of the organized crime syndicate. It is further
 observed that the appellant herein was in
 constant contact with Jayesh Patel over VOIP
 calls and used to collect and route the extorted
 money from various persons on the directions of
 the main accused, Jayesh Patel. Learned Senior
 Advocate Mr. Nanavaty, therefore, submits that
 very serious allegations were levelled against
 the said co-accused person. However, considering
 the fact that only one FIR has been registered
 against the said accused person, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has granted bail to the said co-
 accused person. 6. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty has also
 read the provisions of Sections 2(1)(a) , 2(1) (c), 2(1)(e) and 2(1)(f) of GUJCTOC Act and
 submitted that the present one is the only FIR
 registered against the applicant accused and no
 other FIRs have been registered against the
 present applicant accused before or after the
 promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act and therefore
 the case of the applicant accused would not fall
 under the definition of 'continuing unlawful
 activity' as defined under section 2(1)(c) of
 the Act. Moreover, as per the definition of
 'continuing unlawful activity', the condition
 precedent is that more than one charge-sheets
 have been filed before a competent court within
 the preceding period of ten years. However, in Page 6 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 the instant case, except the present one no
 other charge-sheets have been filed against the
 present applicant accused. 7. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty has further
 submitted that in number of cases the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has recently released the accused
 persons on bail wherein the accused persons have
 remained in jail for more than two and half
 years. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty
 further submits that the applicant accused is
 not praying for discharge from the charge or
 quashing of the FIR but he is praying for
 enlarging him on bail on account of the fact
 that investigation is already completed and
 charge-sheet is also filed and more than 258
 witnesses have been cited in the charge-sheet
 papers and out of them only one complainant has
 been examined. Not only that, after passing of
 an order of framing of charge, certain co-
 accused have preferred a revision application
 assailing the said order and at the time of
 considering the said revision application, the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court has given
 specific direction to the concerned trial Court
 to consider the request made by the concerned
 applicant accused to adjourn the matter
 sympathetically during the pendency of the said
 revision application. Therefore, on the strength
 of the above stated factual aspect, trial would
 be delayed and without any fault on the part of Page 7 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 the applicant accused, he cannot be kept behind
 the bars for an indefinite period. 8. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin
 assisted by learned APP Mr. Manan Mehta for the
 respondent - State submits that the modus
 operandi of this organized crime syndicate
 principally is to grab land. So far as the role
 played by the present applicant accused is
 concerned, he was police officer and as per the
 case of prosecution, one of the victims viz.
 Mr. Kotecha borrowed few lakhs from co-accused
 Sunil Changani. The said accused Mr. Cangani
 started demanding money from Mr. Kotecha.
 However, somehow Changani could not receive the
 money back and therefore he involved applicant
 accused. The applicant accused involved main
 gang leader Jayesh Patel in the matter and
 ultimately deal was struck by intimidating and
 threatening the said victim and few crores were
 extorted against the recovery of few lakhs and
 that extortion is on the intimidation of the
 present applicant accused at the instance of
 Jayesh Patel. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin
 has drawn attention of this Court to the modes
 operandi adopted by the syndicate against the
 aforesaid victim person. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that the
 present applicant accused has been implicated on
 the basis of the telephonic conversion between
 co-accused Sunil Changani and one of the secret Page 8 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 witnesses wherein the name of the present
 applicant accused has been revealed. Learned
 Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that
 the present applicant accused was also managing
 the affairs of the syndicate with co-accused
 Sunil Changani and few other co-accused persons.
 It is further submitted that one Sadhna Forex is
 a company which routes the extortion money of
 the syndicate from one place to another and
 going back to gang leader Jayesh Patel. Learned
 Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that
 there are two other Angadiya firms viz. P. M.
 Angadiya and R. C. Angadiya and witnesses from
 the said Angadiya firms have also given their
 statements stating that they hold one account
 viz. K. J. Account where this ill-gotten monies
 were coming and going and thereafter submits
 that the said K. J. Account is run by the
 applicant accused and other accused which are
 named in the FIR. It is also alleged against the
 present applicant accused that he has
 administered threat to one of the witnesses for
 settling the money transaction, for which a
 complaint is lodged. Lastly, learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin submits that for getting
 temporary bail, the applicant accused has placed
 before the concerned Sessions Court a false
 certificate and finding to that effect is also
 there in the order of the learned Sessions
 Judge. In support of the aforesaid contentions, Page 9 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 learned Public Prosecutor has referred to and
 relied upon certain documents. Learned Public
 Prosecutor Mr. Amin, therefore, submits that in
 view of the aforesaid facts, bail application of
 the applicant accused may not be entertained. 9. I have perused the police papers and other
 documents produced by the applicant along with
 the memo of the application. It is found out
 from the record that applicant has been arrested
 on 16th October, 2020 and since then he is in
 judicial custody. The investigation is already
 completed and after submission of charge-sheet
 present bail application is preferred. It is
 also found out from the record that not a single
 FIR is registered against the present applicant
 accused after the promulgation of the GUJCTOC
 Act. It is also stated that the applicant
 accused was working in the police department and
 he has been nominated and awarded Gallantry
 Award. It is also found out from the record that in
 fact the FIR has been filed against total 14
 persons and name of the present applicant
 accused is mentioned at serial No.5. At the end
 of the day, after completion of investigation,
 investigating officer has filed charge-sheet
 against 12 accused persons and remaining accused
 persons have been shown as absconder and yet
 they are not arrested. Out of 12 accused persons Page 10 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 against whom charge-sheet is filed, accused Nos.
 1 and 3 have been enlarged on bail by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court, accused Nos. 2, 4, 6, 10 and
 13 have been enlarged on default bail and
 accused No.12 has been enlarged on bail by the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court. As submitted by
 learned Senior Advocate Mr. Nanavaty, the
 persons who have been enlarged on default bail
 are the main accused persons and grave role is
 attributed to them as per the case of the
 prosecution. It is also found out from the
 record that the kingpin and gang leader Mr.
 Jayesh Patel has not been arrested. Before adverting to the issue involved in the
 present case, I would like to refer to and rely
 upon the following decisions rendered by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court. In the case of Sandip
 Omprakash Gupta (supra), in para 51(f) & (g),
 the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed as under: If a person ceases to indulge in any unlawful
 act after the said Act, then, he is absolved of
 the prosecution under the said Act. But, if he
 continues with the unlawful activity, it cannot
 be said that the State has to wait till, he
 commits two acts of which cognizance is taken by
 the Court after coming into force. The same
 principle would apply, even in the case of the
 2015 Act, with which we are concerned." In the case of Mukeshbhai Vallabhbhai Abhangi (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed in
 para nos. 7 and 8 as under: Sections 2(1)(c) provides as under: Sections 2(1)(e) provides as under: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined Section 2(1)(f) provides as under: Considering the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the aforesaid decisions and
 considering the aforesaid provisions of GUJCTOC
 Act as well as period of incarceration undergone
 by the applicant accused, I am inclined to
 consider the bail application of the applicant
 accused without discussing anything on merits
 and demerits of the matter. 10. This Court has also taken into consideration the
 law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , reported in [2012]1 SCC 40 as
 well as in case of Satender Kumar Antil v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. reported
 in (2022)10 SCC 51. 11. In the facts and circumstances of the case and
 considering the nature of the allegations made
 against the applicant in the FIR, without
 discussing the evidence in detail, prima facie,
 this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit
 case to exercise the discretion and enlarge the
 applicant on regular bail. 12. Hence, the present application is allowed and Page 15 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 the applicant is ordered to be released on
 regular bail in connection with
 C.R.No.11202008202186 of 2020 registered with
 Jamnagar City 'A' Division Police Station,
 Jamnagar, on executing a personal bond of
 Rs.15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand only) with
 one surety of the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the trial Court and subject to
 the conditions that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or
 misuse liberty; [b] not act in a manner injuries to the interest
 of the prosecution; [c] surrender passport, if any, to the lower
 court within a week; [d] not leave the State of Gujarat without prior
 permission of the Sessions Judge concerned; [e] mark presence before the concerned Police
 Station on alternate Monday of every English
 calendar month for a period of six months
 between 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.; [f] furnish the present address of residence to
 the Investigating Officer and also to the
 Court at the time of execution of the bond
 and shall not change the residence without
 prior permission of this Court; 13. The authorities will release the applicant only
 if he is not required in connection with any
 other offence for the time being. If breach of
 any of the above conditions is committed, the Page 16 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/10602/2021 CAV ORDER DATED: 08/12/2023

 undefined

 Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue
 warrant or take appropriate action in the
 matter. Bail bond to be executed before the
 lower Court having jurisdiction to try the case.
 It will be open for the concerned Court to
 delete, modify and/or relax any of the above
 conditions, in accordance with law. 14. At the trial, the trial Court shall not be
 influenced by the observations of preliminary
 nature qua the evidence at this stage made by
 this Court while enlarging the applicant on
 bail. 15. The present application stands allowed
 accordingly. Direct service is permitted. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)
LAVKUMAR J JANI Page 17 of 17 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 08 20:46:32 IST 2023