AMIT BANSAL, J. I.A. 4328/2023 (O-XXXIX R-1 & 2 of the CPC ) 1. By way of the present judgment, I shall decide the captioned
application filed on behalf of the plaintiffs under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and
2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ). 2. The present suit has been filed seeking relief of permanent injunction
restraining the defendant from infringing the registered marks of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 1 of 35 plaintiffs as well as passing off their goods as those of the plaintiffs along
with other ancillary reliefs. 3. Summons in the suit and the notice in the interim application were
issued on 3rd March, 2023. Parties were also referred for mediation to the
Delhi High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre, however, the
mediation proceedings were not successful. 4. Reply to the interim application was filed on behalf of the defendant
on 5th April, 2023 and the rejoinder thereto has also been filed by the
plaintiffs. 5. Subsequently, the plaintiffs have also filed an application under Section 124 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 for framing an issue regarding the
invalidity of the registertion granted in favour of the defendant for the mark
'EVECARE' and seeking permission to file a rectification petition for
removal of the registration of the said mark from the Trade Marks Register.
CASE SET UP BY THE PLAINTIFFS 6. The case set up by the plaintiffs in the plaint is as follows: The registration of the mark 'EVECARE' was obtained by the plaintiffs on
2nd December, 1997 on a 'proposed to be used' basis in respect of medical
and pharmaceutical preparations in class 5. The plaintiffs are also the
registered proprietors of several other 'EVECARE' marks, details of which
are given in paragraph 26 of the plaint. 6.5. By virtue of long, continuous and extensive use, the plaintiffs have
garnered immense goodwill and reputation in respect of their 'EVECARE'
marks. 6.6. The plaintiffs have provided their sales turnover from the year 2012-
2013 to 2022-2023 in respect of the products being sold under the
'EVECARE' marks/logos in the paragraph 20 of the plaint.
6.7. The plaintiffs have also provided their advertisement and promotional
expenses in respect of the products under the 'EVECARE' marks/logos in
paragraph 21 of the plaint. 6.8. The aforesaid products of the plaintiffs are available as over-the-
counter products at various neighborhood drug stores/chemists, general
stores, as well as the exclusive retail stores of the plaintiffs. The said
products of the plaintiffs are also listed on various online platforms like
Amazon, Netmeds and the like. 6.9. In November, 2022, the plaintiffs became aware that the defendant
has obtained registration of the mark 'EVECARE' in class 3 on 22nd Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 3 of 35 November, 2020 on a 'proposed to be used' basis in respect of cosmetic
products. 6.10. The plaintiffs issued a cease-and-desist notice dated 23rd November,
2022 to the defendant calling upon the defendant to desist from using the
mark 'EVECARE'. The defendant vide response dated 6th December, 2022
refused to comply with the demands of the plaintiffs.
6.11. The defendant is using the identical mark 'EVECARE' as the
plaintiffs in relation to the products meant to promote female menstrual
health, thereby causing confusion in the trade and the public. Accordingly, the present suit has been filed along with the present
application seeking interim injunction. CASE SET UP BY THE DEFENDANT 7. In the reply filed on behalf of the defendant to the interim application
filed by the plaintiffs for grant of interim injunction, it has been pleaded
that: Neither did the Trade Marks Registry raise any objection, nor was any
opposition filed by any third-party against registration of the said mark by
the defendant and hence, the mark of the defendant was registered on 20th
May, 2021. 7.5. After securing trademark registration, the defendant obtained
registration under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 on 8th August, 2021
and thereupon, the defendant started manufacturing and selling products
under the mark 'EVECARE'. 7.6. The defendant has provided its sales turnover of the years 2021-2022
and 2022-2023 as well as promotional expenses in respect of its products
under the mark 'EVECARE' in paragraphs 15 and 16 respectively.
7.7. On a visual comparison of the two products, the goods of the
defendant are completely different in their nature and scope and hence, there
is no possibility of confusion. Furthermore, the packaging of the products of
the plaintiffs always displays the plaintiffs' house brand, 'Himalaya' in a
prominent manner. Therefore, there is no possibility of confusion.
7.8. The plaintiffs' and the defendant's trademarks are also registered
under different classes under the Nice Classification for completely different Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 5 of 35 goods. The plaintiffs' product falls under class 5, which deals with medicinal
and pharmaceutical preparations, whereas the defendant's product falls in
class 3, which deals with cosmetic products. On various online portals, the
products of the plaintiffs and the defendant are available under different
categories. 7.9. The present suit is barred by delay and acquiescence.
7.10. In view of the fact that the defendant is a registered proprietor of the
impugned mark under class 3 and that the goods of the plaintiffs and the
defendant are not similar, no case of infringement is made out against the
defendant. 7.11. The plaintiffs have failed to establish any goodwill or reputation in
respect of the mark 'EVECARE' and hence, no case of passing off is also
made out. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PLAINTIFFS 8. On behalf of the plaintiffs, the following submissions have been
made: Further, the defendant launched its products under the mark 'EVECARE'
after obtaining a license on 8th August, 2021. 8.3. The mark 'EVECARE' is not a dictionary word. Thus, 'EVECARE' is
a coined mark of the plaintiffs and is highly distinctive. At best, the mark
'EVECARE' can be considered to be suggestive, but it is not descriptive.
8.4. Even otherwise, due to continuous user of 24 years, the plaintiffs have
acquired immense goodwill in respect of its mark 'EVECARE', which is
evident from the extensive sales of its product and promotional expenses
undertaken by the plaintiffs. Thus, the said mark has become a source
identifier of the plaintiffs. 8.5. The adoption of the identical mark by the defendant is dishonest and
mala fide. The defendant has not even pleaded that they were unaware of the
plaintiffs' trademark or that they took a legal opinion before adopting the
said mark. The defendant, which is an established FMCG company with
abundant resources, ought to have known about the plaintiffs' mark. If only
the defendant had conducted a simple web search, the product of the
plaintiffs would have come to their knowledge. 8.6. There is a likelihood of confusion between the goods of the plaintiffs
and the defendant as the two marks i.e., 'EVECARE' are identical. A lower
degree of similarity regarding goods and services is offset by a higher
degree of similarity between the two marks. 8.7. The goods of the plaintiffs and defendant are allied and cognate. Even
if the goods are in different classes, they may be considered similar. For
determining the similarity of the products, the nature and the purpose of the
goods has to be considered. In the present case, the products in question of
the plaintiffs and defendant pertain to reproductive health and hygiene of
women and therefore, there is a likelihood of confusion. Reliance in this
regard is placed on the judgments of this Court in Mayo Foundation for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 7 of 35 Medical Education and Research v. Bodhisatva Charitable Trust and
Others , 2023 SCC Online Del 3241 and FDC Limited v. Docsuggest
Healthcare Services Pvt. Ltd., 2017 SCC Online Del 6381.
8.8. The products of the plaintiffs and the defendant are also available for
sale on common trade channels, such as chemist shops, online platforms like
Amazon and online pharmacies. 8.9. Both the products are 'hush products' pertaining to menstrual and
reproductive health of women. Therefore, the buyer may exercise less than
normal inquisitiveness. Reliance in this regard is placed on the judgment in
Kotabs v. Kotex Co., 50 F, 2d 810 (3d Cir.1931). 8.10. In view of the dishonest adoption, the defendant shall not be entitled
to the benefit of prior user even in respect of different goods. There is no
suppression in the plaint with regard to the date when the plaintiffs came to
know about the product of the defendant bearing the identical trademark.
There is nothing unusual about the plaintiffs getting to know about the
launch of the defendant's product in November, 2022, which was only about
one year after the launch. On the contrary, the defendant ought to have
known about the product of the plaintiffs which has been in the market since
1998. 8.11. There is no suppression regarding the plaintiffs selling their intimate
wash under the mark 'HIMALAYA FOR MOMS'. The said intimate wash
under the mark Himalaya was launched by the plaintiffs in 2017 and
discontinued in October, 2021. 8.12. The AYUSH license for the plaintiffs' other product 'All Day Fresh
Intimate Wash' was obtained on 15th June, 2020 and the mark 'EVECARE'
was adopted in respect of the said intimate wash in August, 2022. SUBMISSIONS OF THE DEFENDANT 9. On behalf of the defendant, the following submissions have been
made: Reliance in this regard is placed on the judgments in (i) British Sugar PLC
v. James Robertson & Sons Ltd., (1996) RPC 281: ( ii) Nandhini Deluxe v.
Karnataka Coop. Milk Producers Federation Ltd. , (2018) 9 SCC 183; ( iii)
Vishnudas Trading v. Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co. Ltd. , (1997) 4 SCC 201;
and, ( iv) V Guard Industries v. Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals ,
2022 SCCOnline Del 1593. 9.7. The nature of the products of the plaintiffs and defendant are
different. The product of the plaintiffs is in the nature of Ayurvedic
medicine in class 5, whereas the product of the defendant is a cosmetic
intimate wash falling under class 3. The differences between the two
products are highlighted below: 9.8. In view of the differences discussed above, there is no cause or
connection between the two products and there is no likelihood of confusion
among the probable consumers. Only the fact that both the products are sold
on common e-commerce websites is not sufficient to establish similarity of
products as e-commerce platforms carry many dissimilar products. The
goods are neither competing, nor complementary and do not have any trade
connection with each other. 9.9. The plaintiffs have failed to establish any prima facie case of
goodwill and reputation for use of the mark 'EVECARE' on a standalone
basis. The plaintiffs use the mark 'EVECARE' in conjunction with the use
of its house brand 'Himalaya' which is displayed prominently on the
products. Further, the products of the defendant are sold in an absolutely
different trade dress and the manner of writing 'EVECARE' is totally
dissimilar. Therefore, there is no likelihood of confusion and hence, no case
of passing off is made out. 10. I have heard the rival contentions as well as perused the material on
record. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 11. It is the submission of the defendant that since the defendant is the
registered proprietor of 'EVECARE' in class 3, in view of Section 28(3) of
the Trade Marks Act, 1999, no infringement action can lie against the
defendant unless its registration is declared to be invalid. For ease of
reference, Section 28(3) is extracted below: 12. It was further submitted on behalf of the defendant that the plaintiffs
have not made out any grounds either under Section 9 or Section 11 of the
Trade Marks Act, 1999 for the Court to come to any conclusion with regard
to prima facie invalidity of the registration of the defendant. I find merit in
the aforesaid submission of the defendant. The plaintiffs have not made any
submissions with regard to invalidity and therefore, at this stage, the Court
cannot go into the validity of the registration of the mark in favour of the
defendant and a presumption has to be drawn in favour of the registration as
per Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. Therefore, in my prima facie
view, a case for infringement cannot be made out at this stage in light of Section 28(3) of the Trade Marks Act. 13. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiffs for infringement as
well as for passing off. Section 27(2) of the Trade Marks Act provides that
de hors the provisions of the Act, an action of passing off would be
maintainable. A reference in this regard may be made to the judgment of S.
Syed Mohideen v. P. Sulochana Bai , 2016 (2) SCC 683, wherein the
Supreme Court held that an action for passing off shall remain unaffected by
any registration provided under the Trade Marks Act . Therefore, even if the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 12 of 35 marks of the plaintiffs and the defendant are both registered, an action for
passing off would still be maintainable. 14. Passing off is an action founded in common law, which is based on
the principle that no-one has the right to represent their goods or services as
those of someone else. In Cadila Health Care Ltd v. Cadila
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , 2001 (5) SCC 73, the essential elements for
constituting passing off have been elucidated by the Supreme Court in the
following terms: (Emphasis Supplied) 15. In Cadila (supra), the Supreme Court laid down the following test for
determining deceptive similarity: 16. The principles relating to passing off have also been crystalised by the
Supreme Court in Satyam Infoway v. Siffynet Solution Pvt. Ltd. , (2004) 6
SCC 145 in the following manner: (Emphasis Supplied) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 15 of 35 17. In V-Guard (supra), relied upon by the defendant, while holding that
infringement under Section 29(2) is not made out as the competing goods
are not similar, the Court, nevertheless, held that the defendants therein were
passing off their goods as those of the plaintiff. The relevant extracts from
the judgment are set out below: 18. A reference in this regard may also be made to the judgment of the
Gujarat High Court in Good Life Industries v. J R J Foods Pvt Ltd.,
MANU/GJ/3045/2022 . The facts of the aforementioned case are quite Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 16 of 35 similar to the facts of the present case. In the aforesaid case, an injunction
was denied on the basis that the defendant was the registered proprietor of
the mark. However, injunction was granted on the basis of passing off. The
relevant extracts with regard to the passing off in Good Life Industries (supra) are set out below: 19. In Mother Sparsh Baby Care v. Aayush Gupta and Others , 2022
SCC OnLine Del 1061, relied upon by the plaintiffs, both the plaintiff and
the defendant therein were registered proprietors of the mark 'Plant
Powered', though the plaintiff was the prior adopter and user. While
granting an interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff, the Court observed
that both the plaintiff and the defendant were selling the same kind of
products and since the plaintiff was the prior adopter and user of the said
mark, the defendant's user of the said mark was not bona fide. 20. Applying the principles of passing off as set out in the aforesaid
precedents to the facts of the present case, in my prima facie view, the
plaintiffs have established a case of passing off, for the reasons set out Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 18 of 35 hereinafter. 21. The undisputed facts in the present case are that both the plaintiffs and
the defendant use the identical trademark, 'EVECARE', in respect of their
respective goods. The plaintiffs adopted the mark 'EVECARE' in relation to
its Ayurvedic medicines in 1997, whereas the defendant adopted the mark
'EVECARE' in November, 2020 in relation to its 'vaginal wash'. The
products of the plaintiffs bearing the aforesaid mark have been in the market
since 1998, whereas the product of the defendant was launched around
August, 2021. 22. It is intriguing for me as to why a reputed company such as the
defendant company would launch its product, also pertaining to female
reproductive hygiene, almost 22 years later, using the identical trademark as
that of the plaintiffs. A simple due diligence exercise conducted on behalf of
the defendant would have informed the defendant about the existence of the
product of the plaintiffs with an identical trademark. A google search or a
Trade Marks Registry search across various classes would have brought to
light the registered mark of the plaintiffs. 23. The reply of the defendant only indicates that the defendant conducted
a search only in class 3 and found that there was no other registered mark or
pending application in respect of the mark 'EVECARE'. It is not the case of
the defendant that they conducted a trademark search and came across the
registration of the plaintiffs under class 5 and yet decided to adopt the
identical trademark in respect of their product, which was under class 3. Nor
is it the case that the defendant took a legal opinion before adopting an
identical trademark. The defendant company is not a small-time operator. It
is a company with ample resources and surely, with access to legal Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 19 of 35 resources. 24. The reply of the defendant is conspicuously silent with regard to its
knowledge of the products of the plaintiffs selling under the identical mark.
It is difficult to fathom that the defendant was not aware of the use of the
trademark 'EVECARE' by the plaintiffs when it decided to launch its
product under the same trademark in 2020. While countering the contention
of the plaintiffs that the plaintiffs became aware of the defendant's
'EVECARE' product in Novermber 2022, the defendant has argued that the
plaintiffs ought to have been aware of the defendant's 'EVECARE' product,
which has only been launched 1.5 years back. Applying the same argument,
the defendant ought to have been aware of the plaintiffs' 'EVECARE'
product that has been in the market for a period of 24 years. 25. As noted in the judgments above, misrepresentation can even be made
out in the absence of any mala fide intention on the part of the defendant.
Further, there is no need to establish fraud or actual deception or actual
damage to the business or goodwill of the plaintiff, and a mere likelihood is
sufficient. In my considered view, the defendant has failed to provide a
plausible explanation for adopting the identical trademark. Accordingly, this
Court is of the prima facie view that the adoption of the registered trademark
of the plaintiffs by the defendant was not bona fide and amounts to
misrepresentation. 26. Next, what has to be considered is whether the goods of the plaintiffs
and the defendant are similar or allied/cognate goods. 27. In British Sugar (supra), a judgment relied upon by the defendant, the
Court has laid down the following tests to be considered for determining
whether there is similarity between the goods: 28. The aforesaid tests have been repeatedly applied by Indian courts in
various judgments including FDC (supra); V-Guard (supra) and Balkrishna
Hatcheries v. Nandos International Ltd. , 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 449. 29. In Pfizer Ltd v. Eurofood Link (U.K.) Ltd., 2001 F.S.R. 3, the
Chancery Division of the U.K. High Court laid down the following factors
for deciding the similarity of goods or services: 30. In FDC (supra), the plaintiff therein used the registered mark 'Zifi'
for goods falling under class 5 pertaining to pharmaceutical preparations,
whereas the defendants used the mark 'Ziffi' for booking appointments for
doctors, diagnostics and the like. Applying the aforesaid tests laid down in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 21 of 35 British Sugar (supra), the court came to the conclusion that the
products/services of the plaintiff and the defendants therein are allied and
cognate and hence, granted an interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff.
While coming to the aforesaid conclusion, the court held that the
classification of goods and services under Section 7 of the Trade Marks Act
is not the criteria for deciding the question of similarity in goods/services.
The relevant findings of the Court regarding similarity of the goods as
contained in paragraphs 60 and 70 of the judgment are set out below: 31. The aforesaid observations in FDC (supra) were recently followed by
me in Mayo (supra), wherein I concluded that the use of the mark 'Mayo' by
the defendants in relation to 'hospitals' and 'education services in medicine
and healthcare' would amount to infringement of the plaintiff's registered
mark 'Mayo' in class 16 in relation to 'medical journals and periodicals' as
well as passing off. The relevant observations from Mayo (supra) are
extracted below: 32. In Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. ,
AIR 1960 SC 142, the Supreme Court held that if a trade connection can be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 23 of 35 established between the two commodities having similar trademarks, there is
likelihood of confusion or deception in the market. In the said case, the
Supreme Court held that there was a trade connection between glucose
manufactured by the appellant and biscuits manufactured by the respondent. 33. Applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case, I am
of the considered view that the goods of the defendant are similar and
allied/cognate to the goods of the plaintiffs. In arriving at the aforesaid
finding, the following factors weigh with this Court: The function of the defendant's vaginal wash is also to maintain
 balanced pH, besides maintaining sanitation and hygiene. In fact, the
 defendant's products state on its packaging, "in order to maintain
 microflora balance in the feminine area, washing with the product like
 'EVECARE' that has pH 3.5 is recommended". (iii) Both the products can be taken at the same time so as to achieve better
 results and are hence, complimentary to each other. (iv) The trade channels of both the products are same - both the products
 are sold by chemists as well as online pharmacies. The products of the
 plaintiffs, even though in the nature of a medicine, do not require a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 24 of 35 doctor's prescription and can be freely bought and sold as over-the-
 counter products. (v) The products of both the plaintiffs and defendant are sold by online
 pharmacies under a common category on their websites i.e., 'Women
 Care'. Reference in this regard may be made to page numbers 165-
 169 and 194-203 of the documents filed with the plaint on behalf of
 the plaintiffs, which are extracts from the website of 'TATA 1mg'
 where the products of the plaintiffs and the defendant are sold under
 the common category of 'Women Care'. (vi) When a prospective consumer would search for 'EVECARE' on
 various third-party e-commerce platforms, such as 'Amazon',
 'Netmeds' and 'TATA 1mg', both the products of the plaintiffs and the
 defendant would show up, which is likely to cause confusion.
 Reference in this regard may be made to page numbers 144-146 of
 the documents filed with the plaint and page numbers 11-16 of the
 documents filed with the rejoinder by the plaintiffs, which are extracts
 from the aforesaid websites. (vii) A perusal of the screenshots of third-party websites filed by the
 plaintiffs clearly shows that the prices at which the two products are
 sold are similar. Refererence in this regard may be made to the
 extracts from the website 'Netmeds' and 'TATA 1mg' on page
 numbers 11-16 of the documents filed with the rejoinder by the
 plaintiffs and the extracts from 'Amazon' on page numbers 144-146
 of the documents filed with the plaint. (viii) There are common manufacturers for both the products, such as
 'Piramal', 'Rapross' and the plaintiffs, who manufacture both, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 25 of 35 medicine as well as the intimate wash. Reference in this regard may
 be made to page numbers 90-136 of the documents filed with the
 rejoinder by the plaintiffs. 34. The defendant has pointed out the following differences between its
product and the product of the plaintiffs: 35. In my considered view, the aforesaid differences are not material and
are unlikely to weigh in the mind of a customer with average intelligence
and imperfect recollection while making the purchase. Since the products
bear identical trademarks in relation to similar goods, a consumer who
comes across both the product of the plaintiffs and the product of the
defendant at the same time is likely to get confused and also associate the
product of the defendant with that of the plaintiffs or vice versa. Therefore,
in my prima facie view, this would cause likelihood of confusion in the
minds of prospective consumers of the products. 36. Insofar as the contention of the defendant that the two products fall in
different classes i.e., class 3 and class 5, it may be relevant to note that under Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 26 of 35 the Nice classification, 'vaginal washes' are specifically included under both
class 3 and class 5, even though they are qualified with the words 'for
medicinal purpose' in class 5 and the words 'for personal sanitary and
deodorant purpose' in class 3. 37. The words 'Eve' and 'Care' by themselves are dictionary words and
may be considered to be descriptive. However, the plaintiffs have cited
various dictionaries to highlight that 'EVECARE' is not a dictionary word
and hence, cannot be considered to be a descriptive word. At the highest,
'EVECARE' is a suggestive term and hence, would be entitled to a high
level of protection. This view is fortified by the fact that the defendant itself
has obtained registration of the mark 'EVECARE'. 38. Even otherwise, the plaintiffs have been using the said trademark for a
period of 24 years and such long usage has, in my prima facie view, resulted
in the plaintiffs acquiring goodwill and reputation in the mark 'EVECARE'.
The plaintiffs have provided their sales figures as well as the promotional
expenses over the past ten years. Between 2012 and 2020, the plaintiffs had
sales of around Rs.150 Crores in respect of the products selling under the
trademark 'EVECARE' and incurred promotional expenses of Rs.1.25
Crores in the said period. The popularity of the products of the plaintiffs is
evident from a simple Google search for the term 'EVECARE', which
shows only the products of the plaintiffs in the first two pages of the search
results. 39. Therefore, in my prima facie view, the use by the defendant of the
identical mark would not only cause injury to the goodwill and reputation of
the plaintiffs but is also likely to cause confusion and deception in the
market. 40. In the present case, an added factor for likelihood of confusion is the
inherent nature of the goods. As discussed above, the products of the
plaintiffs and the defendant pertain to menstrual and reproductive health of
women and would therefore, fall in the category of 'hush products'. A
prospective buyer of these kind of products is unlikely to ask too many
questions about the product before purchasing the same. The topic of
menstrual hygiene/health is, unfortunately, still not a subject matter of open
and free discussion. In this regard, the plaintiffs have correctly placed
reliance on the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals in Kotabs
(supra). In the said case, the plaintiff used the registered trademark 'Kotex'
in respect of sanitary pads, whereas the defendant used the same trademark
subsequently in respect of medicinal tablets used for relieving menstrual
pain. The court, while noting that the product of the plaintiff was in the
nature of a medical appliance, whereas the product of the defendant was a
medicine, observed that both the products of the plaintiff and the defendant
are used for the same physical ailments and hence, are related products. The
court also noted that the woman in this incident is not a 'casual purchaser'
but is an 'exceptional purchaser', who would hesitate to make enquiries
about the product and its origin. In view of the above, it was held that this
would likely cause confusion in the mind of a purchaser who may think that
the defendant's medicine is made by the plaintiff. 41. I do not find merit in the submission of the defendant that because the
plaintiffs use their house-mark, 'Himalaya' along with trademark
'EVECARE', it would eliminate confusion. In today's times, when most
products are purchased online, the search on e-commerce platforms is
usually done through the trademark and therefore, in such cases, the house Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 28 of 35 mark would not be of much relevance. In this regard, reference may be made
to Mother Sparsh (supra), where a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court rejected
the submission of the defendant that a house mark can be the distinguishing
factor between the two parties by holding that when a search is conducted
for a product on any e-commerce platform, it would automatically throw up
the results of the products of the plaintiff and the defendant, which was not
desirable. 42. Undoubtedly, the plaintiffs sell their various products under their
umbrella brand 'Himalaya', however the plaintiffs also use various other
marks in respect of their various categories of products along with their
house-mark 'Himalaya'. The word 'EVECARE' is a separate registered
mark of the plaintiffs and in the products of the plaintiffs, it occurs
separately and distinctively from its house mark. In other words, the mark
'Himalaya' and the mark 'EVECARE' are not written together but occur
separately on the product. Therefore, I do not find merit in the submission of
the defendant that the use of the house-mark 'Himalaya' would distinguish
the goods of the plaintiffs. 43. The defendant has also contended that it uses the mark in a different
style, get-up, packaging, and the other writing or marks on the goods or on
the packets are different or indicate a different trade origin. However, where
an identical trademark of the plaintiff has been adopted by the defendant, the
aforementioned factors would be immaterial. Reference in this regard may
be made to the judgment in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v.
Navaratna Pharmaceutical , AIR 1965 SC 980, which was followed by me
in Mayo (supra). 44. Now, I will deal with the judgments cited on behalf of the defendant.
The senior counsel for the defendant has placed reliance on the judgment in Nandhini Deluxe (supra) and Vishnu Das Trading (supra) in support of his
contention that registered proprietors of a mark should not be allowed to
monopolise the said mark in respect of distinct products which are not
related to the products of the registered proprietor. 45. In Nandhini Deluxe (supra), the nature of the business of the parties
was totally different. The appellant was in the business of running
restaurants, whereas the respondent was dealing with milk and milk
products. The Court also noted that the mark 'Nandini'/'Nandhini' was a
generic term as it represented the name of a goddess and a cow in Hindu
mythology and hence, was not an invented or a coined word. Further, though
there was a phonetic similarity in the marks, the trademark with the logos
adopted by the parties were quite different. Another factor that weighed with
the Court was that even though the respondent was a prior user in 1985, the
appellant also started using the mark in the year 1989 and had already used
the mark for 12/13 years before applying for registration. All the aforesaid
factors are enough to distinguish the aforesaid judgment from the facts of
the present case. 46. In the case of Vishnudas (supra), the respondent was involved in the
business of manufacture and sale of cigarettes and in 1955, had got its mark
'Charminar' registered under class 34 i.e., 'Manufactured Tobacco'. The
appellant had been manufacturing and selling 'quiwam' and 'zarda' under its
trade name 'Charminar' since 1973. The registration of the appellant's mark
was objected to by the respondent since both the products fell in the same
class 34, 'Manufactured Tobacco'. On appeal, the Supreme Court held that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 30 of 35 though the two products fell in the same class, they are distinct from one
another in their use and characteristics. It also held that since the respondent
did not intend to sell 'quiwam' and 'zarda', it could not have claimed
monopoly over the same. In the present case, the products of the plaintiffs
and the defendant have similar use and function. Further, the plaintiffs have
also launched an intimate wash under the mark 'EVECARE'. Moreover, the
Supreme Court in Vishnudas (supra) was only concerned with the propriety
and validity of the order of rectification of the registration of trademark and
was not dealing with the issue of infringement of trademarks and passing
off. Therefore, Vishnudas (supra) would not come in aid of the defendant in
any manner. 47. Similarly, in Mittal Electronics v. Sujata Home Appliances , 2020
SCC OnLine Del 2658, the Court noted that the products of the plaintiff
(mixers, grinders, blenders) and the products of the defendant (water filters,
water purifiers and RO systems) are different goods used for different
purposes. Further, the defendant had been using the trademark in question
for a long period of time. In the present case, as discussed above, the
products of the plaintiffs and the defendant are used for similar purposes.
Hence, the aforesaid judgment is of no assistance to the defendant. 48. In V Guard Industries (supra), both the plaintiff and the defendant
were using an identical mark 'pebble' in respect of their respective goods.
While the plaintiff used the said mark for water heaters, the defendant used
the same for electric irons. The Court held that the two products are not
similar as they are dissimilar in their physical nature, their intended purpose
and their method of use. Therefore , the said judgment does not advance the
case of the defendant. 49. In Kalindi Medicure Pvt. Ltd. v. Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. And
Ors. , 2006 SCC OnLine Del 1166, the factors that weighed with the Court in
not granting injunction was that one of the drugs, 'Loprin' was an 'anti-
platelet drug' that prevented coagulation, to be used for a long period of
time, whereas the other drug 'Loparin' was a critical care medicine used as
an anti-coagulation in emergency, normally used in the intensive coronary
care unit. Further, one of the two drugs was 52 times more costlier than the
other. Consequently, the judgment in Kalindi Medicure (supra) also does not
advance the case of the defendant. 50. The defendant has contended that the plaintiffs were aware of the use
of the mark 'EVECARE' by the defendant much before the date given in the
plaint, i.e., November, 2022 and have suppressed the said fact. Therefore,
the present suit has been filed belatedly. 51. Admittedly, the earliest user of the impugned mark by the defendant
was after August, 2021 when they received the regulatory approvals in
respect of its product. It is unlikely that the plaintiffs would immediately
come to know of the launch of the impugned product by the defendant. The
plaintiffs claim knowledge from November, 2022, which is not too far
removed from the date of launch of the product of the defendant.
Immediately upon coming to know, a cease-and-desist notice was sent by
the plaintiffs to the defendant on 23rd November, 2022. Since the defendant
failed to comply with the said notice, the present suit was filed in February,
2023. Therefore, in my view, there is no significant delay on the part of the
plaintiffs in filing the present suit so as to deny the relief of interim
injunction. 52. It has also been vehemently contended on behalf of the defendant that
the plaintiffs have suppressed the fact that they were already selling an
intimate wash under the trademark 'Himalaya'. The plaintiffs have
explained that though the plaintiffs had launched an intimate wash under the
mark 'Himalaya' in July, 2017, the same was discontinued in October, 2021.
On 15th June, 2020, the plaintiffs applied for an AYUSH license in respect of
an 'All Day Fresh Intimate Wash' and decided to launch the same in August,
2022, under the mark 'EVECARE'. 53. Plaintiffs have already obtained licenses from the Department of
AYUSH on 15th June, 2020 regarding the launch of a vaginal wash. Further,
the plaintiffs have applied for approval of additional branding for the
intimate wash product on 29th November, 2022, which has already received
the approval of the Department of AYUSH. 54. In my considered view, it is not a case of material suppression as
sought to be made out by the defendant. It was the legitimate right of the
plaintiffs to expand their business and venture into related products using
their registered trademark. This aspect has been recognized by a Co-ordinate
Bench of this Court in Somany Ceramics Ltd. v. Shri Ganesh Electric Co. ,
2022 SCC OnLine Del 3270. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are set out below: Plaintiff is right in its contention that merely because a
 trademark registration is applied for in a particular class, the
 proprietor is forever bound to sell only those goods. Law
 recognises the expansion of business into similar or cognate or
 allied goods and this factor is relevant for determination of a
 claim for passing off." (Emphasis Supplied) 55. The judgment in Somany Ceramics (supra) was followed by me in KRBL Limited v. Vikram Roller Flour Mills Limited , 2023 SCC OnLine
Del 219 as well. Therefore, I do not find any merit in the plea of suppression
taken on behalf of the defendant. CONCLUSION 56. In view of the discussion above, a prima facie case of passing off is
made out on behalf of the plaintiffs. The balance of convenience is also in
favour of plaintiffs and against the defendant inasmuch as the product of the
defendant has been launched only about 1.5 years back and has limited
sales. On the other hand, the product of the plaintiffs has been in the market
for 24 years and has significant sales. Irreparable harm would be caused not
only to the plaintiffs but also to the public if an injunction as sought is not
granted in favour of the plaintiffs. 57. Accordingly, the defendant, its directors, partners, officers, servants
and agents, distributors, wholesalers, dealers, retailers or any other person
acting for and on their behalf are restrained from manufacturing, selling,
offering for sale, advertising, directly or indirectly dealing in any manner
with regard to any products and services, including but not limited to their
female hygiene and menstrual health product under the mark 'EVECARE' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 34 of 35 and/or any other mark which is deceptively similar to the plaintiffs'
registered 'EVECARE' mark till the final adjudication of the suit. 58. Needless to state, any observations made herein are only for the
purposes of adjudication of the present application and would have no
bearing on the final outcome of the suit. 59. The present application stands disposed of in above terms. AMIT BANSAL, J. JULY 12, 2023
rt Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AMIT BANSAL Signing Date:12.07.2023 CS(COMM) 118/2023 15:22:17 Page 35 of 35