The National Alliance of Peoples Movement (NAPM) has written to the Chief Minister of Telangana, A Revanth Reddy, calling for urgent policing reforms, including establishing necessary protocols to stop unlawful use of surveillance tools by the State police. The NAPM is a coalition of people’s organisations and movements formed in 1996.

The five-page letter dated June 18, 2024 was shared by technology researcher and hacktivist Srinivas Kodali on X. However, MediaNama could not find a copy of the letter on NAPM’s official X account or on their website. We have written to the organisation asking for a copy of the letter.

A Letter to Telangana Chief Minister demanding comprehensive policing reforms including surveillance reforms and to make the Telangana Police Manual with list of existing current policing practices public was sent by civil society groups in Telangana through @napmindia pic.twitter.com/J0EvCUBcIB

The letter highlights that in the name of technological advancements, policing practices have taken a “disturbing turn” in Telangana resulting in infringement of people’s fundamental rights such as right to privacy, freedom of speech and expression, right to peaceful assembly and protest, and other civil liberties.

Projects like Cordon and Search operations, Chabutra Mission, and the TSCOP mobile application have particularly contributed to extensive surveillance measures by the Telangana Police. The NAPM highlighted that socio-economically vulnerable populations, including migrant workers, informal workers, minorities, and Dalit and Adivasi communities, usually face the brunt of ‘normalised police harassment’. Read about Hyderabad police’s rigorous surveillance measures and its impact on individual freedoms here .

Additionally, the letter also noted the rampant use of facial recognition technology coupled with 360-degree profiling of State residents through various government programmes. Furthermore, the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) has enabled the police to create “criminal profiles”, track dissenters and protestors exercising their constitutional right to protest.

The NAPM stated that these tools have resulted in wrongful arrests of innocent people like in the case of Khadeer Khan from Medak district of Telangana, who was allegedly tortured in custody leading to his death in December 2023. According to The Wire’s report , despite being innocent, the police had arrested Khan in a gold-snatching case, based on CCTV visuals that showed the culprit wearing a mask.

“In Khadeer’s case, the use of ‘criminal profiles’, access to call data records, tower locations and facial recognition was being promoted as ‘perfect forms of policing’, while all these tools were abused to illegally detain him, without following any rule of law,” the letter noted.

The NAPM also shed light on the lack of transparency, safeguards, and accountability measures in the deployment of policing and surveillance tools.

“…there has been no publication of the updated Telangana Police Manual, that records policing practices and gives citizens the options to demand accountability of the police. Any request to seek a copy results in the police asking to refer to the Andhra Pradesh Police Manual. Contrary to the public image they try to convey, policing in Telangana has become highly secretive with black box policing practices and it has resulted in sweeping control over ordinary citizenry. Over the last decade, large-scale surveillance and preventive arrests of anyone planning a peaceful protest has reduced the space for people to organise, thus violating basic constitutional rights,” the NAPM wrote.

Calling for comprehensive policing reforms in the state, the NAPM has made the following key demands related to digital surveillance, in its letter:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event