SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How to deal with movers and packers fraud?
DATE: 2024-05-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cuxh2q/how_to_deal_with_movers_and_packers_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi

To provide some context, I am 26M and recently had to move from Pune back to my home town, and had to shift some of my belongings. I did not have a lot, just a table, a chair, and a few more boxes. I was trying to contact Aggarwal movers and packers as suggested by alot of folks, but they took a long time to respond. I was reached out to by Rehousing movers and packers, i did (little) research and concluded that these guys are legit. Since I was in hurry, I thought lets go with them.

 
16 March - Two guys came and took the table and chair and a few other boxes that i had packed, I paid a booking amount of Rs 1k.

18 March - Their agent shared the total luggage weight and the invoice for payment. They ask for full payment upfront, I try to convince them that I can pay some in advance and the rest after I receive everything, but they were adamant on it. I had no idea whether it was common practice or if they are trying to fraud me, but I had already came back and had no other option, so I paid the full amount of Rs 7k (8K including the previous booking amount)

 
20 March - They share the photograph of my packed luggage, everything looked normal

 
29 March - I receive the shipment, everything looked good on the outside. Coincidentally, we were also in the process of shifting out house in within my hometown, so I had it put in the new house and thought I will get to unpacking later

 
26 Apr - I open the packaging and voila! the table is completely damaged, it is broken from multiple places, all screws are lose, the wood is extremely damaged, and most importantly (and shockingly) One side of table legs are missing, not damaged, MISSING! I opened everything else and it was all fine. I contacted their agent through whatsapp and shared all the photos and videos. I was very angry as well, since the only was table pieces can be missing is that it was broken BEFORE the packing, not during transit. I screamed at him alot and they said they will look into it with the insurance company.

 
The agent has not responded to my texts / calls since 26 april, perhaps I should have been more calm in my phone call hahaha.

 
29 Apr - I send an email on the mail id mentioned on their site, share my whole story, share the photos and videos of table.

 
2 may - I send a follow up mail.

 
3 may - I send a follow up mail.

 
4 may - I finally get a response, they say that travel insurance agency will take care of it and ask for the invoice. I reply with the invoice instantly.

 
9 may - They say insurance was not included in my shipment. I instantly respond with the photographs of their agent mentioning that insurance is included in the charge that they have shared. I also mention that insurance seems to present in the invoice as well.

 
I have followed up around 5-6 times post that, I have received no response yet.

Things I have - 

1. The quotation they shared

2. Whatsapp chat depicting that their agent saying that travel insurance is included in the amount they are charging me at no extra cost.

3. The invoice shared by them, which also mentions insurance.

4. Screenshots of payments done via UPI.

Things I dont have -

1. Anything in written that mentions the amount of insurance or total cost of goods, I told that verbally over call to their agent only.

 
Two things here - first of all, I clearly have travel insurance amount added in my package. Secondly, even if we ignore that, the missing legs of table (that were bolted to the table) clearly shows that the table was damaged BEFORE packing, way before it was loaded and sent to my way, so the damage was done by their team in their handling/packing of it, the travel insurance company shouldn't even be liable for this, the company (Rehousing packers and movers) should be directly liable.

 
I do not know how to proceed here. I dont even know If I should proceed here, The total worth of the shipment was around \~1L, the table was worth \~Rs10k, I obviously dont want to end up spending MORE than the cost of the table in order to get back its cost, it could also mean the spending ALOT of time, which might end up being not worth it in the end. If the fraud was more severe like they stole everything, filing a police complaint would be the obvious option, but I am quite confused as to what my best approach is here.

 
Please provide any help/advice in regards to what my next steps should be. If I need to add any other information, let me know. If there is some other place I should be asking this instead of here, please let me know that as well. Thank you!