Since the subject matter and reliefs sought are similar in both OA Nos. 697/2015 and 700/2015; hence both the OAs have been taken up for

 adjudication together and we are inclined to pass a common order in both

 these OAs with OA 697/2015 as the lead case. 2. The instant OA 695/2015 - Syed Md. Razi vs. SAIL & Ors. has

 been filed by the applicant under section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals

 Act, 1985 seeking the following reliefs:- DISC/C003862/2012 dated 21.02.2012. Or/and (iii) Any other relief which this Hon'ble Court deems fit and proper
 may also awarded to the applicant." 3. The factual matrix of the case as per the counsel of the applicant is

 that the applicant was appointed as Junior Manager (M-FP) with Steel

 Authority of India Limited (SAIL) w.e.f. 30.05.2008. Initially he was placed

 under probation for a period of 12 months and upon successful completion

 thereof was confirmed in service w.e.f. 30.05.2009. According to the

 counsel, the applicant discharged his duties with devotion and always

 worked in interest of the Company. The Annual Performance Appraisal

 Reports (APAR) of the applicant consistently graded him as 'Grade-A',

 reflecting his meritorious service record. However, he was served with a

 Memorandum No. DISC/C003862/2012 dated 21.02.2012 whereby the

 Disciplinary Authority proposed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against

 him under Rule 25 of the SAIL Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules, 1977. The applicant submitted his initial statement dated 02.03.2012 to the

 competent authority categorically denying all the charges leveled against

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 4 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 him and also furnished detailed submissions in rebuttal of the allegations

 made against him. Subsequently, during the course of the departmental

 enquiry the applicant submitted his final brief before the Enquiry Officer on

 15.02.2013. The applicant also sought production of three additional

 documents necessary for effectively presenting his defence. However, the

 said request was declined on vague and untenable grounds, thereby causing

 serious prejudice to the defence of the applicant. The Management

 examined only one witness, namely Shri A.K. Jha, Manager (Personnel),

 whose testimony allegedly failed to bring any substantive evidence to

 support the charges framed against the applicant. Thereafter, he was

 served with order dated 13.02.2014 along with a copy of the Enquiry

 Officer's report and a Disagreement Note issued under the signature of the

 Senior Manager (P-OD) Kolkata, reflecting the views of the Disciplinary

 Authority, i.e. Director (Commercial), in exercise of powers under Rule 26 of

 the SAIL CDA Rules. As per the counsel, a Disagreement Note is required to

 record tentative reasons for disagreement with the findings of the Enquiry

 Officer. However, the Disagreement Note recorded a conclusive finding that

 the charges stood proved, thereby rendering the subsequent proceedings as

 sham. Controverting the findings recorded in the Disagreement Note, the

 applicant submitted a detailed reply dated 20.02.2014 reiterating his

 defence. However, in spite of the submissions of the applicant the

 Disciplinary Authority vide order dated 25.02.2014 imposed the penalty of

 dismissal from service on the applicant. The said order is alleged to have

 been passed without duly considering the defence and submissions of the

 applicant and without recording cogent reasons or referring to evidence

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 5 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 justifying the extreme penalty. The counsel contended that the order of

 dismissal is mechanical, non-speaking and passed with a closed and

 predetermined mind thereby vitiating the disciplinary proceedings. Aggrieved, the applicant preferred a statutory appeal on 30.03.2014 raising

 detailed grounds assailing the order of dismissal. However, the Appellate

 Authority, vide communication dated 03.05.2014 issued by Senior Manager

 (P-OD) Kolkata, rejected the statutory appeal through a non-speaking and

 mechanical order without proper consideration of the grounds raised by the

 applicant. Being aggrieved by his dismissal order as well as the rejection of

 the statutory appeal the applicant has approached this Tribunal by filing the

 present OA. 4. The counsel of the applicant argued vociferously on the following

 grounds :- "5.1 The disagreement note is bad in law as the same does not
 record the reasons which are tentative in nature for disagreeing
 with the report of the Enquiry Officer. The perusal of language of
 disagreement note dated 13.02.2014 will clearly established that
 the charges levelled in the present D.E. are already proved
 against the applicant at the time of issuance of disagreement note
 itself. The applicant is placing its reliance on the judgment of full
 bench of Hon'ble Tribunal in O.A. No. 577/2009 decided on
 08.10.2010 in which after discussing the entire case law on the
 given issue the Hon'ble Full Bench clearly held :- "9. In the light of the above we hold that a note of
 disagreement would not be tentative if it states that the
 charges against the charged officer stand proved. Mere
 expression of such view would make the note of disagreement
 had in law and liable to be quashed and set aside The
 reference is thus answered. The OA is remanded to the DB." 5.2 The perusal of the disagreement note will clearly establish
 that at the stage of disagreement note itself the Disciplinary
 Authority clearly recorded that the charges against the applicant
 are made out. The applicant quoting the verbatim para as
 mentioned in disagreement note and the same is as follows: 'For the reason aforesaid, I do not agree with the findings of
 the Enquiry Committee. Differing with the findings of the
 Enquiry Committee I am of the opinion that the charges in
 respect to: thereby to the interests of the committing misconduct as per
 Rules 5.0(1) 5.01(5) of SAIL CDA Rules, 1977. 2. Failing to maintain absolute integrity thereby violating Rule
 4.0 (1) (1) of SAIL, CDA Rules, 1977 Are made out against
 Shri Razi." 5.3 The disagreement note issued by the Disciplinary Authority is
 based on suspicion and surmises and not on the basis of the
 evidence that has come on record during the D.E. thus making
 the disagreement note as bad in law. The disagreement note is
 based on extraneous facts, which are note not proved in the
 Departmental Enquiry and thus the disagreement note is
 unsustainable in the eyes of laws. 5.4 The Disciplinary Authority while recording the reasons for
 disagreement with finding of Enquiry Committee is giving a
 finding in the disagreement note Itself that why the findings of
 the Enquiry Committee is not correct and unacceptable. The
 perusal of disagreement note clearly establishes that at the stage
 of disagreement note itself the Disciplinary Authority has already
 taken a decision to prove the charge against the applicant and to
 further impose the punishment. This act of the Disciplinary
 Authority makes the process of issuing a disagreement note and
 further giving an opportunity to applicant to defend as mere sham
 and thus is in violation of principle of natural justice and laid
 down departmental rules. 5.5 The order of Disciplinary Authority whereby the extreme
 punishment i.e. dismissal from service is being imposed is
 absolutely non-speaking and mechanical in nature and further
 establishes that Disciplinary Authority at the stage of
 disagreement note itself has made his mind to prove the charge
 against the applicant and further impose the extreme punishment
 i.e. dismissal from service. 5.6 The order of Disciplinary Authority is bad in law as the same
 is absolutely non-speaking and mechanical in nature and does not
 deal at all with the specific submissions on facts and laws raised
 by the applicant in the reply to the finding as well as in the
 defence statement made before the Enquiry Officer. 5.7 The order of Appellate Authority is absolutely bad In taw as
 the same is on the face of it non-speaking, mechanical and bold
 in nature and does not even record even a single submissions
 made by the applicant within the body of statutory appeal. The
 applicant is placing its reliance the judgment of Hon'ble Tribunal
 Judgment dated 04.05.2011 in O.A. No-616/2010 and Hon'ble

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 7 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 High Court Judgment dated 26.05.2014 in LPA NO-736/2013
 tilted Nidhi Kaushik Vs. UDI & ors. (DLT 2014 Vol. 212 P 5). 5.8 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant was
 merely a candidate; applicant had no role and control over the
 recruitment process hence fault should not be attributed to
 applicant. 5.9 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant has
 acted in accordance with advertisement issued by SAIL, Bokaro
 Steel Plant and it was beyond applicant means/imagination to
 have known the provisions of recruitment manual of Bokaro Steel
 Plant. In pursuance of applicant application received by SAIL/BSL,
 applicant got the call letter for interview. 5.10 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant's
 application was in consonance with the advertisement. If the
 application was late or not in consonance with the advertisement,
 it would have been summarily rejected. 5.11 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant was
 not informed, as to in what manner applicant's application was
 not conforming to the requirement terms mentioned in the
 advertisement. The applicant did possess the requisite
 educational qualification as well as previous experience as
 required in the terms of advertisement. 5.12 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant's
 application was submitted after last date of submission could not
 be established from prosecution side. In order to prove this point
 applicant asked for producing the envelope in which application
 was posted which could not be produced by the custodian of
 documents. 5.13 The present case is a case of no misconduct as once filled-in
 application, draft, bio-data etc. are accepted after scrutiny and
 the authority issued the interview letter to the candidate to
 appear before interview panel, the candidate has been
 interviewed and selected, the candidate has been given offer of
 appointment by competent authority (Personnel Deptt.) and the
 candidate has joined the organization, non-conformities
 mentioned in under this head by Prosecution side does not hold
 good. A candidate applying for a job cannot be held responsible
 for any of these lacunas. There were many options available to
 recruiting authority at various stages: (i) Applications could have
 summary rejected. (ii) The candidates would not have been called
 for interview. (iii) The candidates would not have been selected
 and given offer of appointment (iv) The candidates would not
 have been allowed to join if they have concealed some material
 facts etc.(v) the Candidate should have not been confirmed after
 the probation period. And the same confirmation was signed by
 Sr. Manager (P-OD)-Kolkatta. 5.14 The present case is a case of no misconduct as it was up to
 the Management of BSL that the advertisement was published in

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 8 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 one newspaper only. Even if advertisement was published in one
 newspaper, it cannot be said that the requirement of Artcile-14
 and 16 have not been followed. As publication of vacancies was
 made in a national level newspaper, the requirements under Articles 14 & 16 have been fulfilled. 5.15 The present case is a case of no misconduct as applicant was
 merely a job aspirant, applicant applied for the post and it was
 not possible on his part to fix up the liberal criteria of qualification
 and experience for selection or why only five candidates had
 applied for the said post. It was the prerogative of recruitment
 authority to fix up the criteria or proceed or not to proceed for
 interview even if only five candidates had applied for four posts. 5.16 The present case is a case of no misconduct as
 Advertisement in "The Asian Age" says application form duly
 filled-in with all testimonials should reach Post Box No. B 25
 within 8 days by ordinary post only, it does not say that
 application must reach at the Head Office or Branch Office of BSL
 within 8 days. It was only when the application of applicant was
 received at proper address and also within the stipulated time,
 then after scrutiny applicant was called for interview by SAIL-BSL. 5.17 The present case is a case of no misconduct as from his
 initial presentation to his final brief, PO has pointed out
 deficiencies in the recruitment process adopted and tried to relate
 the deficiencies to 'Article of Charges' on applicant on the basis of
 suspicion and surmises. Prosecution side could not produce any
 evidence to support 'Article of Charges'. Requirement of proof
 cannot be substituted by surmise and conjecture. The only
 Management Witness (MW-4) produced by the PO was not at all
 involved in this particular recruitment and thus no evidence is
 being recorded by the department in the entire departmental
 enquiry in support of the allegation made against the applicant
 thus making the present case as a case of no evidence. 5.18 The present case is a case of no misconduct as it is not the
 fault of candidate that the recruitment process adopted by SAIL-
 BSL was deficient(if any). To fix up criteria for selection, to
 adhere to the extant recruitment procedure, to accept or reject
 any application and to provide an equal opportunity to all eligible
 citizens of India in matter of Public Employment was the
 responsibility of recruiting Authority. A person is deemed to be an
 employee only after the date of his joining in the organization.
 The applicant stated that after joining SAIL-BSL he has not
 indulged in any act in any manner which could be considered as
 fraudulent act, or an act of misconduct. It is nowhere established
 during the departmental enquiry that applicant had hidden or
 misrepresented material facts to gain appointment. 5.19 The present case is a case of no misconduct that even as per
 the charges framed in the present D.E. it does not constitutes a
 misconduct. The perusal of Article of Charge clearly establishes
 that there is no specific allegation of any misconduct against the
 applicant and even if there is an iota of allegation then even the

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 9 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 same is on presumption. The allegation constituting the
 misconduct has to be definite but in the present case neither the
 allegation leveled against the applicant constitute a misconduct
 and further the allegations are vague, evasive based on
 presumption and assumption. That the present case is a case of
 no misconduct as the Hon'ble Tribunal has held in the case of GP
 Sewalia Vs. UOI OA No. 223/2006 judgment dated
 27.08.2008 whereby it has been held "Non-performance of
 duties, which may have no element of unlawful behaviour, willful
 in character, improper or wrong behaviour, misdemeanor,
 misdeed, impropriety or a forbidden act, may some time amount
 to not carrying out the duties efficiently, but the same cannot be
 construed to be misconduct." The allegation leveled in the present
 D.E. does not fall under the definition of misconduct. 5.20 The applicant placing its reliance on the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Union of India & Others v. J. Ahmed (1979) 2 SCC
 286 held that deficiencies in personal character or personal ability
 would not constitute misconduct for taking disciplinary
 proceedings. It was further held that negligence in performance
 of duty or inefficiency in discharge of duty are not acts of
 'commission or omission' under rule 4 of the Discipline and Appeal
 Rules. 5.21 The present case is a case of no evidence as the sole witness
 who has appeared in the present D.E. i.e. Sh. A.K Jha has
 nothing to do with the allegation made in the present D.E. His
 deposition in the present D.E. does not bring any evidence on
 record on the basis of which any finding of guilt in respect of
 allegation leveled against the applicant in the present D.E. could
 be proved or any punishment in the present D.E. could be given
 to applicant. 5.22 The present case is a case of no evidence as there is no
 document which is being proved in the D.E. on the basis of which
 any finding of guilt in respect of allegation leveled in the present
 D.E. could be given. There is no evidence brought on record even
 in the form of any document in the entire D.E. so in order to
 prove the allegation leveled in the present D.E. thus making the
 present case is a case of no evidence. 5.23 That the present case is a case of no evidence as it is an
 admitted position that none of the document relied by the
 Disciplinary Authority is proved in the departmental enquiry by
 any witness thus making the present case as a case of no
 evidence and no misconduct. 5.24 That the Disciplinary Authority is disagreeing with the report
 of Enquiry Committee on the basis of extraneous facts and
 documents which are neither being proved in the D.E. nor
 brought on record thus making the order of disagreement note as
 bad in law as the same is based on extraneous facts. 5.25 That the present case is a case of no misconduct and no
 evidence as there is no finding by any court of law regarding any

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 10 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 fraud being conducted in the recruitment process in which the
 applicant was appointed. 5.26 That the applicant sought document/information during the
 D.E. so in order to give an effective defense and the same
 document/documents are as follows: (a) Copy of full BSL
 Recruitment Manual (b) List of recruitment process followed in
 SAIL during last 25 years, apart from MTTs & Campus
 recruitment. (c) The envelope in which the applicant form/resume
 was submitted by applicant. 5.27 The relevance of above seeking documents/information was
 to give an effective defence in respect of allegation leveled in the
 present D.E. It is a matter of record that authority are under an
 obligation to supply documents/information to the delinquent
 official during the D.E. which are relevant for presenting an
 effective defence. The applicant is placing its reliance on the
 judgment of Hon'ble High Court 1970 S.L.R. Page 400 Jug Raj
 Singh Vs. Delhi Admn. (Delhi). 5.28 That the punishment imposed upon the applicant is too
 severe and harsh in comparison to what has been alleged against
 the applicant and the Appellate Authority does not consider the
 question of proportionality of punishment despite the same being
 specifically raised in the Statutory Appeal. 5.29 That the order of the Appellate Authority whereby the
 statutory appeal of the applicant has been rejected is bad in law
 as the Appellate Authority does not consider the question of
 proportionality of punishment despite the same is being
 specifically raised within the body of statutory appeal of applicant
 thus making the same order is bad in law. 5.30 That the present case is a case of no misconduct as it is a
 matter of record that the applicant alongwith the application of
 C.V. The applicant submitted his resume in accordance with
 advertisement and there is no material of any kind whereby it
 could be even remotely concluded that the application of
 applicant was time barred. 5.31 That the present case is a case of no misconduct as the onus
 to produce the envelope in which the application of applicant was
 submitted was on the management during the D.E. It is a matter
 of record that the same envelope was with the management but
 not presented in the D.E. thus clearly establishing that the
 application of the applicant was submitted within time and there
 was no delay in filing the same thus making the present case as a
 case of no evidence and no misconduct. 5.32 That the present case is a case of no misconduct as
 admittedly the advertisement had appeared in the newspaper on
 5.4.2008 and the application of the applicant was duly submitted
 within the time provided by the respondent. 5.33 That the present case is a case of no misconduct as the
 applicant can not be held responsible for any internal delay (if

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 11 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 there was any) in transmission of application of applicant. The
 envelope in which the application of the applicant was received
 would clearly establish the actual date of receipt of applicant's
 application but in the absence of the same envelope no allegation
 as leveled in the Departmental Enquiry can be levied against the
 applicant. 5.34 That in the absence of any documentary proof being
 produced in Departmental Enquiry so in order to establish that
 the application of applicant was belated, the act of Disciplinary
 Authority to disagree with the report of the Enquiry Committee is
 bad in law. 5.35 That the Disciplinary Authority issued a disagreement note in
 respect of charge which was not even the part of the Article of
 Charge framed in the D.E. The D.A. can disagree with the report
 of Enquiry Committee only in respect of charge which are framed
 in the D.E. but here in the present case the D.A. disagreed with
 the report of Enquiry Committee in respect of all together
 different charge thus making the Disagreement Note as bad in
 law. It has been noted by the Disciplinary Authority that there
 seems to be collusion between the candidates and the selectors.
 It is submitted that when Article of charges were framed, there
 was no charge in the Articles of Charge of any collusion between
 the applicant and the Selectors. The disciplinary authority can not
 issue a disagreement note on extraneous charges and thus the
 disagreement note is bad in law. 5.36 That the Disciplinary Authority is disagreeing with the report
 of the enquiry committee which are beyond the scope of articles
 of charges therefore, the aforesaid observations of the
 Disciplinary Authority are not borne out from the record. The
 applicant during the proceedings of the enquiry committee was
 never called upon to answer or face any such allegations of
 collusion and the allegations are being made herein for the first
 time in the disagreement note. 5.37 That the Conduct (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1977 in
 pursuance of which proceedings are being initiated and conducted
 against applicant are not applicable to the aforesaid allegations.
 In this regard, applicant submit that Section 3 .8 (A) of the said
 Rules defines 'Employee' to mean as under:-- > "an Employee" 5.38 That the Disciplinary Authority in the notice sent to applicant
 has sought to charge applicant in respect to Section 4 .0(1),
 5.0(1) & 5.0 (5) of the said Rules. The said Sections reads and
 provides as under :-- Section 4 .0(1) provides for action against an employee if an
 employee of the Company has not maintained absolute
 integrity. Similarly, Section 5 .0(1) provides that an act of an employee
 of theft, fraud or dishonesty in connection with the business or
 property of the Company or of a Subsidiary or of property of
 another person within the premises of the Company shall
 constitute misconduct. Similarly 5.0(5) provides that an employee acting in a manner
 prejudicial to the interest of the Company shall be treated as
 conducting misconduct. 5.39 That it is relevant and pertinent to mention that the acts
 which have been alleged against applicant do not relate to the
 period when applicant was an employee of the Company and thus
 all the charges made against the applicant are not even
 maintainable on the face of it thus making the present case as
 case of no misconduct. 5.40 That applicant came to be an employee of the Company on
 23.05.2008. The applicant was not an employee of the Company
 on 05.04.2008 when the applications were invited. The applicant
 was not an employee of the Company on 13.04.2008 when
 applicant had made an application or on 16.04.2008 when as per
 the Management, applicant had made an application or on
 21.04.2008 when applicant interview was conducted, or on
 23.05.2008 when the Management sent applicant an offer of
 appointment. The applicant came to be an employee of the
 company only on 23.05.2008 when applicant accepted the offer of
 appointment sent to applicant." The counsel of the applicant further argued assiduously and pleaded that

 the reference to CBI is extraneous in this OA. In the disciplinary enquiry,

 CBI case was not an issue. Secondly, the charges framed in the charge

 sheet do not constitute misconduct. The Disagreement Note of the

 Disciplinary Authority ought to have been tentative/presumptuous but that is

 not the case and exhibits the pre-mediated and pre-determined mindset of

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 13 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 the respondents while the charged/Delinquent Officer was slapped with a

 major penalty of Dismissal from service; the equally culpable officers of

 Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL), SAIL were let off with a minor penalty of

 withholding of one increment for a period of one year without cumulative

 effect. For better understanding both the orders dated 27.12.2010 in

 respect of Shri C. G. Kuberkar and Shri. A. S. Hemrom respectively are

 quoted below :- Also nothing has been revealed on who were the BSL Employees who

 were part of the Interview Board that interviewed the applicants and what

 disciplinary action has been taken against them. 5. The counsel of the applicant relied upon the following judgments of

 Hon'ble High Court and decisions of the Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal to

 support his arguments :- (ii) Full Bench Judgment of this Tribunal in OA No. 577/2009 decided on

 08.10.2010 - Shri Raja Ram & Anr. vs. GNCTD & Ors. Paras 8 and 9

 of which are reproduced below :- (iii) Decision of this Tribunal in OA No. 616/2010 - Head Constable

 Chander Veer vs. The Commissioner of Police & Ors. dated

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 17 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 04.05.2011. Paras 4 to 7 of which are extracted below :- Union of India and Others vs. Ravi Shankar Kumar Sinha . Paras 1,

 20 and 21 of which are quoted below :- (Emphasis supplied)" 3511/2014. Relevant paras 11, 15 and 16 of the said order are as
 follows :- 16. Considering the facts of the present case, the grounds
 taken, the arguments presented by both sides and the law, we
 come to the conclusion that the whole process of the
 recruitment of the applicant smacks of gross irregularities as
 established in the departmental enquiry and the applicant has
 no right to continue in the post to which he was appointed by
 the respondent BSP." (ii) Ratnesh Kumar vs. UOI & Ors., Delhi HC W.P. (C)-1127/2017.
 Wherein the Hon'ble High Court observed in paras 11, 12 and 13 as
 follows :- (iii) Ratnesh Kumar vs. UOI & Ors.. SLP (C)-11249/2018 wherein
 the Hon'ble Apex Court has ordered as under :- (iv) Rajnish Kumar vs. UOI & Ors., CAT Patna Bench O.A.-
 050/00493/14,

 (2) Individual innocence has no place, when recruitment process
 is itself tainted :- 16. Another important requirement of public appointment is
 that of transparency Therefore, the advertisement must specify
 the number of posts available for selection and recruitment.
 The qualifications and other eligibility criteria for such posts
 should be explicitly provided and the schedule of recruitment
 process should be published with certainty and clarity. The
 advertisement should also specify the rules under which the
 selection is to be made and in absence of the rules, the
 procedure under which the selection is likely to be undertaken.
 This is necessary to prevent arbitrariness and to avoid change
 of criteria of selection after the selection process is
 commenced. thereby unjustly benefiting someone at the cost
 of others." (ii) Krishan Yadav vs. State of Haryana, (1994) 4 SCC 165,
 wherein it has been held as under :- ( iii) Union of India vs. O. Chakradhar , (2002) 3 SCC 146, para 12
 of which is as under :- (3) Disagreement Note :- (iii) A. K. Bhagat vs. UOI, SLP (C)-30047/2019 ; ( iv) UOI & Ors. vs. Prof. P.N. Bhat , (2007) 2 SLR 29 (DB), the
 relevant extracts of which are reproduced below :- (v) Prof. P.N. Bhat vs. UOI, SLP (C)-7140/2006 ; submissions; examined the documents on record and perused the relevant

 judgments of Hon'ble Apex Court, Hon'ble High Court and Coordinate Bench

 of this Tribunal. We have observed that there have been egregious and

 glaring lacunae in the conduct of the Disciplinary proceedings (DP). In the

 charge sheet - the charges framed by the respondents were done without

 due application of mind / due diligence. They were couched in innocuous

 and vague language not pointing to any serious misconduct/gross

 negligence on the part of the applicant. We have noted that the

 respondents examined only one witness - Shri A. K. Jha, Manager

 (Personnel) whose testimony allegedly failed to bring any substantive

 evidence to support the charges framed against the applicant. We have

 also observed that the extreme penalty of dismissal from service was passed

 by the respondents in a bald, non speaking and mechanical manner without

 due consideration of the defence and submissions of the applicant. Thus

 the decision of the Disciplinary Authority and Appellate Authority are bad in

 law. Further, the applicant had participated in the recruitment and is a

 'minor player' in this nefarious conspiracy of recruitment. The 'major

 players' were the respondents - SAIL (BSL) employees who despite being a

 Maha Navratan Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) that has a rigorous

 recruitment process of written examination; Group Discussion and Interview

 for recruitment of Management Trainees - (their Standard Operating

 Procedure - SOP) deviated in the instant case and only an interview was

 conducted which is highly subjective in nature. The charges being vague

 and weak in nature were not proved in the Inquiry Report of the Inquiry

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 30 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 Officer. However, later the Inquiry Report was dismissed 'in toto' by the

 Disciplinary Authority without giving sufficient and cogent reasons; and with

 a pre-mediated mind in the 'Disagreement Note'. An ideal Disagreement

 Note should be tentative, certain and probabilistic and not deterministic in

 nature as per the settled principle in administrative law and service

 jurisprudence. Thus, the disagreement note in the instant OA is bad in law. Here we have noted that both the Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate

 Authority had already made up their mind to award the maximum penalty of

 'dismissal' to the charged/delinquent officer while at the same time they let

 the SAIL (BSL) Officers involved in this dubious and deviant recruitment go

 literally scot free with a minor penalty of withholding one increment for a

 period of one year. This has severely offended nay shocked our conscience

 as there seems to be no sense of equity and proportionality in the award of

 penalty by the respondents. We have also observed that the CBI enquiry

 is extraneous in this OA. In the disciplinary proceedings, the CBI enquiry

 was not an issue. Also nothing has been shown as to what action the

 respondents have taken against the delinquent officers of BSL who were part

 of the interview board who conducted the interview. It is a settled principle in administrative law and service jurisprudence

 that normally in disciplinary proceedings there is rarely a judicial review as

 Courts and Tribunals are not supposed to act as Appellate Authorities ; and

 substitute the judgment of the Disciplinary Authority/Appellate Authority by

 their own judgment. However, in cases where the decisions arrived at in a

 DP are based on irrational and extraneous considerations; orders are

 MAYA MAYA BAHADUR
 SINGH TARAGI
BAHADUR
 SINGH 2026.02.19
 TARAGI 17:22:42+05'30' 31 O.A No. 697/2015 with OA No. 700/2015 Item 23 (C-3)

 perverse in nature then the Courts and Tribunals should not shy from

 undertaking a judicial review. In our considered opinion this is a fit and

 proper case of judicial review and accordingly we quash and set aside the

 following :- However, there will be no order as to costs. 9. Needless to mention that this decision would be binding over the

 connected OA No. 700/2015. Registry is directed to keep a copy of this

 order in that OA also.