1. The present information has been filed by Mr. Satyen Narendra Bajaj (hereinafter,
 'Informant') under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter, 'Act') Case No. 23 of 2019 1 alleging contravention of provisions of Section 4 of the Act by PayU Payments Private
 Limited (hereinafter, 'OP-1/PayU') and by Enstage Software Private Limited
 (hereinafter, 'OP-2/Wibmo'). OP-1 and OP-2 are hereinafter collectively referred to as
 'Opposite Parties/ OPs'. Facts and Allegations as stated in the Information 2. The Informant is an individual user/consumer of the services provided by PayU and
 other e-payment gateways. 3. PayU is a fintech company that provides payment technology solutions to online
 merchants. It was founded in the year 2002 and has its head-quarter at Hoofddorp,
 Netherlands. It allows online businesses to accept and process payments through
 payment methods that can be integrated with web and mobile applications. Further,
 PayU is the e-payment division of Naspers, a global internet and entertainment group
 and one of the leading technology investors in the world. Naspers is a leading financial
 services provider in the global growth markets and is engaged in the business of
 providing payment gateway services and other digital payment enablement services to
 both consumers and businesses. It also holds a Non- Banking Financial Company
 ('NBFC') license in India to offer credit services. 4. Wibmo is a leading technology and service provider for the financial services industry,
 best known for its hosted risk-based authentication, 3D secure, and payment security
 services. It provides solutions ranging from mobile payments, fraud and risk
 management, prepaid solutions and a host of merchant services. It works with most of
 the large Indian banks to implement security protocols such as one-time password
 authentication and other risk management solutions. As stated by the Informant, on the
 basis of information available on its website, Wibmo is certified by Mastercard, Visa,
 RuPay as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ('PCI DSS') which
 means that it can process/authenticate all forms of digital payments from cards to mobile
 based transactions. 5. During the financial year 2017-2018, PayU has availed many services from Wibmo such
 as use of 3D secure page powered by Wibmo, Risk based authentication, QR code-based
 solution, integration with Tally etc. to generate invoice, prepaid card authentication and
 loyalty program. As stated, it can be inferred from the above that PayU and Wibmo
 share very close commercial links with each other. 6. PayU is stated to be a 'dominant' player in the market of e-payment processing gateways
 in India with a high market share in some sectors, for example, 55% in e-commerce and
 22% in travel agency. The Informant has delineated the relevant market as "e-payments
 gateway in India", in which it claims that PayU is dominant. 7. It is stated that PayU acquired Wibmo. The OPs as a combined entity ('Combination')
 is directly or indirectly likely to result in unfair or discriminatory conditions in availing
 e-payment processing gateway services in India. 8. The said Combination is stated to have strengthened the position of PayU in the market
 of e-payment processing gateway services in India for completion of the e-payments
 due to the dominant position held by Wibmo in the downstream market "risk-based
 authentication and payment security services in the e-payments gateway in India", as
 defined by the Informant as a secondary market. As per the Informant, this is likely to
 result in unfair and discriminatory conditions in availing payment gateway services in
 India for the consumers as well as the other competitors of PayU and Wibmo. This
 allegedly raises valid concerns, as a consumer is not only limited in his options to avail
 services of PayU in the relevant market, but also he is 'at the sole expense of PayU and
 Wibmo', which opens up the scope for PayU and Wibmo as a group to exploit the
 consumers by abusing their dominance in the upstream as well as the downstream
 market. In this regard, the Informant alleged that PayU has indulged into the following
 practices of abuse: Time Password (OTP). However, on www.flipkart.com there is no such integration and
 it takes more than 20 seconds for generating OTP. This way, according to the Informant,
 integration of Wibmo with www.amazon.in provides its customers the best 'user
 interface and user experience' which has led to reduced time in completing the
 transaction but at the same time ensuring customers a more secure system. This has
 allegedly given an advantage to PayU which cannot be matched by any of its
 competitors. 14. Based on the above, the Informant, inter alia, alleged that the acquisition of Wibmo
 'will provide PayU complete details of the accounts of buyer and seller along with
 commission rates charged by other payment gateways'. This would give PayU access
 to ready customer database with the help of which it can on-board any merchant by
 providing lower commission rates in comparison to its competitors. In short, this would
 facilitate PayU in having a clear advantage over its competitors as it has enabled it to
 build a digital ecosystem which is capable of harmonising transaction processing on
 both the acquiring and issuing sides amounting to an abuse of dominant position. 15. The Commission considered the contents of the additional information on 26.12.2019
 and decided to pass an appropriate order in due course. 16. At the outset, the Commission notes that the premise upon which the information is filed
 is that pursuant to the impugned Combination, the Opposite Parties have become
 dominant in the market. The Informant has alleged that resultant to the combination, the
 parties are attempting to monopolise the e-payment gateway market in India. As per the
 Informant, this attempt to monopolisation is likely to have exploitative as well as Case No. 23 of 2019 5 exclusionary effects in the relevant market as defined by the Informant. Moreover, it is
 alleged that on the strength of the combination, the OPs or PayU is trying to monopolise
 the e-payment gateway market in India and adversely affecting the competitors as well
 as the consumers by limiting their options. 17. The Commission is of the view that while the Act prohibits an abuse of dominant
 position by an enterprise, mere existence of dominant position, without any prima facie
 evidence of its abuse, is not recognised as an anti-competitive conduct in the scheme of
 the Act. In order to establish a prima facie case for intervention, an abuse of a dominant
 position cannot be based on a mere existence or potential to achieve dominance in the
 market. 18. The Commission notes that the impugned combination was consummated sometime in
 the month of April 2019 as per the information available in public domain. The
 Informant has raised certain apprehensions that the impugned combination may give
 rise to the possibility of abuse of a dominant position. However, investigation under the
 Act cannot be ordered solely based on conjecture and apprehension. The mandate of the
 Act is clear. The trigger to order investigation under Section 26(1) is the prima facie
 case for intervention either under Section 3 or Section 4 of the Act. Further, Section 4 of the Act requires existence of an alleged abusive conduct which can be investigated.
 Dominance in itself is not bad, its abuse is. The erstwhile market legislation, namely the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (repealed w.e.f. 01.09.2009)
 provided for control of monopolies. However, the Act made a paradigm shift from
 'monopoly being per se bad' to 'abuse of dominant position' being bad in law.
 Therefore, even if contention of the Informant is accepted that the OPs have secured a
 dominant position, which the Commission is not deliberating at this stage, the existence
 of dominance bereft of any abusive conduct under the provisions of Section 4 of the Act,
 cannot be held to be the basis to order investigation. The prima facie existence of
 abusive conduct under the provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act is a sine qua non to
 order investigation under the Act. There is no evidence furnished which could suggest
 that the OPs have indulged in any such abusive conduct. Moreover, the Commission
 notes that the contents of the additional information filed by the Informant do not further Case No. 23 of 2019 6 the Informant's case under the Act. The Informant has merely stated that there is
 reduction in transaction time and a more secured payment ecosystem, owing to such
 integration as mentioned before. Thus, in the absence of any alleged abusive conduct, it
 will be legally untenable to direct an investigation under the Act. With respect to the
 Informant's allegation on access to data by PayU that allegedly allows it an unfair
 competitive advantage, the Commission finds it premature to deal with this issue at
 present, especially in the absence of any evidence of exclusionary or exploitative
 abuse/conduct. 19. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that there exists no prima
 facie case for investigation and the information filed is closed forthwith under Section
 26(2) of the Act. Consequently, no case arises for consideration of the application of
 interim relief under Section 33 of the Act. 20. The Secretary is directed to communicate the order to the Informant accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Kumar Gupta)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Sangeeta Verma)
 Member

 Sd/- (Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi)
 Member
New Delhi
Date: 29/01/2020 Case No. 23 of 2019 7