This is a special newsletter that went out to MediaNama subscribers on August 5, 2023.

Ad: India’s Data Protection Bill is here, and your business needs to adapt. K&S Digiprotect, with its team of data protection experts, offers compliance services tailored to help you adapt to the new regulations, safeguard your data and build trust with your customers. Contact us now!

The Data Protection Bill was finally tabled in the Lok Sabha on August 4. This makes the upcoming PrivacyNama 2023 (which we’re planning for September end/Early October) all the more interesting. If you have ideas regarding what we should do at PrivacyNama 2023, drop our editor Nikhil Pahwa a note at [email protected] . We’ll have our usual sessions, with Privacy Commissioners and Chief Privacy Officers, apart from Privacy Tech showcases at PrivacyNama 2023.

MediaNama brings to you extensive coverage of the Bill. We’ll be posting more stories with stakeholders’ and experts’ comments and discussions from the parliament—you can find the full summary of the bill here and a guide to our stories here .

Before we get to the stories,

🎙Event Announcement: ‘ App Bans and Network Fees ’ where we will discuss TRAI’s latest consultation paper on online communications bans, exploring commercial relationships between telecom operators and online apps and other net neutrality issues. Our discussion will go a little beyond the remit of the consultation paper, and consider the consequences that recommendations can have on the rest of the Internet. Read more here or Register here .

When: Thursday, August 10 , 2023, 12:30 PM to 5:15 PM.

Where: The LaLit , New Delhi

Without further ado, let’s take you through the ways of India’s new Digital Personal Data Protection Bill.

First Impressions: “This Bill cleaves the entire digital universe into two parts. It will apply with full force to all non-governmental organizations and the entire government universe is going to be exempt from it,” said MP Manish Tewari referring to the bill right after it was tabled in the parliament. Several other MPs from the Opposition listed a range of concerns around various provisions of the bill. Read a quick round-up here . Meanwhile, Sarvesh sat down to compile a comprehensive list of all that is concerning about the Bill. Read it here .

No consent for “legitimate” uses, says India’s Digital Personal Data Protection Bill: The Bill introduces provisions for “certain legitimate uses” of personal data collected by entities. These legitimate uses include processing personal data that has not been outrightly “not consented” by users, for providing government benefits and services, state functions, compliance with laws and orders, medical emergencies, disaster response, employment-related purposes, and more. In 2022, the government called such use cases as grounds for “deemed consent”. In the latest version, it has been replaced by “legitimate use,” leading to concerns about personal autonomy. The new version also removes the grounds for processing data in the public interest. Also, notices are no longer required for legitimate purposes, raising privacy and data protection concerns. [ Read more ]

The government has broad powers to exempt itself from the Bill, block content, demand data from companies, and more: In what is one of its most significant drawbacks, the DPDP Bill allows the government to issue a notification to exempt any of its agencies from the Bill on various grounds. If that was not enough, the Bill allows the government to retain personal data for an unlimited period regardless of whether the purpose for which it was collected has been served, demand personal data from private companies, and block the content of entities on advice from the Data Protection Board. All these are a recipe for a surveillance state in the making. Check out our post for more on the various powers of the government and why they’re problematic. [ Read more ]

Privacy rights of individuals: The Bill has raised eyebrows for allowing entities recognised by law to use citizens’ personal data for crime detection and investigation without their knowledge. This raises concerns about Law Enforcement Agencies accessing vast personal data with little oversight. While the bill provides individuals with certain rights, such as the right to information, correction, erasure of their personal data, right to grievance redressal and right to nominate, these rights are subject to certain duties. The duties outlined for individuals and vague mandates about providing “verifiably authentic” information for availing right to erasure indicate a disproportionate control in the hands of the entities that process data over an individual’s personal information and an infringement upon their privacy rights. [ Read more ]

The definition of a child stays the same, despite the critique: India’s Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Bill fails to take into account the critique its previous iterations received over the years for classifying everyone between 0-17 years under the umbrella of a ‘child’. The lack of a tailored approach leaves them all at the mercy of “parental consent.” Additionally, the consent itself needs to be informed and verifiable, which, in turn, can lead to an unnecessary amount of public surveillance. Although the bill allows certain categories of companies to be exempt from seeking parental consent,  to avail of that exemption the company must convince the government that it is processing data in a “verifiably safe manner.” How they will accomplish this, is yet to be determined. [ Read more ]

An ‘independent’ and Executive-appointed Board will determine non-compliance with India’s data protection law : The Data Protection Board of India will be the apex institution investigating compliance with the data protection law. Its recommendations can also trigger government blockings of information in India. A big caveat though: the Indian government will determine who sits on the Board, based on criteria currently unspecified in the bill. As experts noted last year, when the Board was first proposed, these opaque appointments could compromise the Board’s ‘independence’ as a regulator, impacting businesses and governments down the line. We summarise the authority’s powers, and how it departs from the erstwhile Data Protection Authority mentioned in the 2018, 2019, and 2021 iterations of the bill. [ Read more ]

Inform us of breaches, you decide when: India’s Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Bill says that companies must put in place reasonable security safeguards to protect the personal data in their possession but doesn’t specify what these safeguards are. Further, it asks companies to inform the Data Protection Board and the affected people about the breach but fails to give a clear timeline for when this information about the breach must be revealed. The form and manner in which companies must inform both the board and the affected parties of a personal data breach can be prescribed by the government at a later date. [ Read more ]

Cross-border data transfers to anywhere you’d like—except to restricted countries : In a complete reversal from the whitelisting approach seen in last year’s draft data protection law, the 2023 version allows cross-border data transfers unless to countries restricted by the government. The two-clause section doesn’t tell us about how these countries will be restricted, or on what basis, leaving India’s approach to data transfers (and data localisation) still somewhat ambiguous. What we do know: that the bill won’t conflict with other prevailing laws on data transfers (read: the RBI and SEBI’s data localisation mandates). We track why the provision matters—and how the bill, unlike its predecessors, fails to protect transfers of sensitive personal data abroad. [ Read more ]

How will companies process data? The Bill outlines strict obligations for companies and government agencies regarding the processing of personal data. Entities must seek explicit consent from users before processing their data, provide clear notices detailing the purpose and scope of data collection, and ensure the accuracy and completeness of the data. Non-compliance can result in significant fines ranging from Rs 50 crores to Rs 250 crores. Significant data fiduciaries have additional duties and face penalties of up to Rs 150 crores. The government and certain classes of entities may be exempt from some provisions, but startups must adhere to these obligations. Data processors and third parties can be involved without user consent. [ Read more ]

How would the DPDP Bill impact AI companies? Ever since the launch of ChatGPT, AI has been the buzzword. Every company is finding ways to integrate AI into its products and services. AI, generative AI, especially is trained on large sets of data, including personal data. While other countries like the US, Japan, and Canada are looking into the privacy concerns this poses, it appears that India’s DPDP Bill is going to allow scraping of publicly available personal data without the need for consent from the user. Good news for AI, bad news for privacy of users. [ Read more ]

Stumped by the Right to Deny? The Bill proposes an amendment to the Right to Information Act of 2005. If passed, government officials will have the right to turn down any RTI requests under the Right to Privacy. But dont they turn down enough RTI requests already? The amendment changes the clause to mean that  the government can even decline information relating to a person, in response to an RTI request. What’s more, is that it proposes removing a clause that states citizens should get access to the same information that the Parliament or state legislatures can access. So, with this new “Right to Deny,” how much of right to information are we left with? [ Read more ]

Here are more stories on privacy from the month—

🎥 Watch: Why X’s Encrypted Messaging Is Inferior To WhatsApp, Signal

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event