SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Are Quikr Job reps a scam?
DATE: 2022-06-04
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/v474yy/are_quikr_job_reps_a_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am not 100% sure if this is a scam or how it works, but it seems like that based on my experience and some reviews I had read online. If anyone has had a similar encounter with Quikr Jobs, please confirm so other people can avoid getting screwed over by them. 

\-

So around a week ago, I was looking for entry level jobs and started uploading my resume on the usual - indeed, naukri and others. I was trying not to use quikr because I knew people who had been scammed while selling and buying things on it. But while looking at job listings, quikr did seem to have many almost too good to be true offerings up. I ended up applying for one post on their site, and like most places they make you sign up for an account, inevitably giving them your email and phone number with other details. 

It must have been less than 2 hours later, that I get a call from this unknown landline number. Truecaller tells me it's "Quikr Jobs Genuine" (exact name) and the profile picture is the Quikr logo too. The number isn't listed as a scam either which really lead me to pick it up. 

Right off the bat, the guy goes off asking if I'm still looking for a job. I say yes. He continues asking if I can verify my name and what job I'm looking for and in what area, which is a little suspicious. And if that doesn't do it, he tells me yes there are many companies in your area that are hiring (pretty much the opposite of my job search so far). He then goes on to name 4-5 companies very close to where I live, where I would very much like to work. But the thing was, I did not see vacancies for these companies anywhere else online, which was another red flag. I was still not certain if this was real, so I ask him what the salary is like and at one point he tells me they're hiring for 30k for 3 hours/3 times a week. If I didn't think this was bs first I was pretty much sure then. 

He tells me they can get me in touch with the recruiter today (it's 5:30 at this point) and get the joining letter in my hand and I wouldn't have to do a thing. I still don't know how they're gonna monetise off this when he finally says "So all you have to do is give a one time deposit of 3k which will be returned to you once you get the joining letter" boom. So I ask "Can I give you the money after I get the job?" He says "Oh no it's a deposit so we'll need it BEFORE you get the joining letter" ... Okay then.

I want to end the call at this point so I tell him I don't have that kinda money to give right now to which he says "Oh don't worry about that, how much can you give? Can you giv 2k? 1k? 500? How much ever money you have available you can just gpay it and I'll keep that as the refundable deposit. Don't worry about it and then you'll get it back when you get the job, which you'll guaranteed get". This is straight up absurd at this point, so I tell him I'll have to check my balance or something. Even then the guy won't let me hang up my phone and tells me to check my balance while he's on the call (!). He sounds exactly like one of those forceful billing scammers at this point. He eases off a little though and tells me to call me as soon as I figure out how much money I can give.

I put the phone down and check reddit first, but there isn't anything about one of these rep calls. But a few other sites have write ups with similar experiences, following the exact same script, who say they were scammed by these people. [https://www.sitejabber.com/reviews/quikr.com](https://www.sitejabber.com/reviews/quikr.com)

Overall, I know scammers are ruthless and will target uninformed and desperate people especially, but with the job market as it is, it's really likely for a vulnerable fresher, uniformed retiree or just someone out of work and looking for a break, to fall for these rosy schemes. Hell, while talking to him I was sorta wishing it was real.

TLDR: A Quikr Job rep call up and offers too good to be true jobs over the phone. They tell you to pay a refundable deposit of 3k (or really any amount you can) via gpay and they'll give you a joining letter asap. The jobs they offer are often not listed anywhere online. The numbers they call from don't show up as scam on truecaller either.