I am vignesh from chennai and i have purchased a asus gl552jx rog series gaming laptop in ebay.in on 22nd march 2016 with 2 years manufacturers warranty. I gave my laptop for service to an asus official service (F1 info solutions & services pvt ltd, unit no. 11, 14, & 15, vgp victory house, near sony centre, mount rd, chennai, tamil nadu 600002) for the first time on 16th march 2017 which is nearly one year from my date of purchase of my laptop. The service center people, verified my purchase and warranty details online and informed me that i have warranty till may 2018, created a job-sheet and serviced my laptop. I had a issue with my laptop display after 5months and so my brother gave my laptop to the same service center on 4th august 2017. I was shocked to see a different warranty date in the new job sheet stating that i have just one more month for my warranty to expire, ie (8th september 2017). I raised a complaint to the service center and they asked me for my purchase invoice. They verified my purchase again and said that the changes will be made when i come for next service and serviced my laptop. Within one month, my laptop had sudden power off issue and i visited the service center. They said that they cant raise a job-sheet immediately since it will create a problem for them if the customer comes for service within one month after the previous service and promised to provide me the job sheet after 2days. On my acceptance, they verified my warranty again, collected my laptop and said me to collect the laptop after 4days. After 4 days when i called the service center, they said the warranty has ended and so they didn't service my laptop. I've raised a complaint to asus support and even they have raised a complaint. I have provided all my invoice copies and the service center people said that they have received a reply from asus that the invoices are fake. I again raised a complaint providing all the supporting documents and its been more than 3 weeks and i haven't got any response from asus. Its a laptop which i regularly use for office and its still idle in service center for the past 4weeks without being serviced. The service center people are suggesting me to close the job-sheet and collect my laptop and they will contact me once the issue is resolved, if its soo urgent that i need the laptop. Doing this will show that i have accepted that my warranty has ended. Hence, i have refused to collect the laptop. I have two main doubts: 1. If my purchase or invoice is fake, how did asus say that i have warranty till 2018 and created a job-sheet and serviced my laptop for free 2. If i had bought with 1 year warranty, as what the service center employees say, then why is the warranty deadline in second job sheet as september 2017, which is 1.5years from my purchase date. Does asus provide warranty for 1.5years too?? I have attached both the jobsheets for your kind reference. I request asus to resolve this issue immediately and service my laptop at the earliest as i require my laptop urgently. Thanks in advance. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)