1. Plaintiff in Civil Suit No. 2 of 2004 is the appellant in this Second Appeal, which is directed against the judgment dated 30-7-2005 and decree dated 16-8-2005, passed by the learned District Judge, (South and West) at Namchi, in First Title Appeal No. 1 of 2005 reversing the Judgment and Decree dated 22-2-2005 passed by the Senior Civil Judge, South Sikkim at Namchi in the above Civil Suit. The facts giving rise to the dispute between the parties, may briefly be stated as follows: 2. The appellant inherited landed properties covered by plot numbers 230, 231, 232 and 408 situated at Namchi Bazar, South Sikkim, on the demise of his late father Shri Tonyot Lama. Havingjoined service under the Government of Sikkim in the year 1954, the appellant was always on the move on account of transfers and postings to different stations. For this reason and also for the reason that he had settled down in Gangtok, East Sikkim, during the service period, the above land inherited by him at Namchi was left under the care and enjoyment of his only sister, Late Pempa Doma Bhutia and her late husband Tempo Bhutia. Since the said Tempo Bhutia lived as 'gharjuwai', he and his wife late Pempa Doma Bhutia lived with Late Doma Bhutia, the mother of the plaintiff/appellant at Namchi in the wooden house built on plot No. 231. In the year 1988, when the appellant happened to be at Namchi for a brief period, on transfer to that place, the respondent No. 1 who is his nephew, being the son of his late sister Pempa Doma Bhutia, approached him for selling him the piece of land covered by plot No. 231 on which a wooden house was constructed and in which they were living. Conceding to the request, the appellant sold the said piece of land covered by plot number 231 along with the wooden house standing thereon to the respondent No. 1 by registered sale deed dated 2-11-1988. At the relevant time, it came to the notice of the Appellant that the respondent No. 1 had also raised some kutcha sheds beyond five feet of the piece of land sold to him. On objection being raised by the appellant, the respondent No. 1 dismantled the structure in the year 1991. In the year 2000, the Appellant came to know that the Government was acquiring some land for various developmental projects at Namchi and compensation was being paid for the same. Since the Appellant had land at Namchi, he made enquiries, and in course of such enquiry, he obtained certified copy of the sale deed and khatiyan parcha from the Office of the District Collector, South Sikkim, in respect of the land belonging to him. From these documents, it transpired that plot numbers 230 and 232 which were retained by the Appellant while selling away plot number 231 to Respondent No. 1 in the year 1988, were also included fraudulently in the sale deed dated 2-11-1988, besides plot number 231 and after having done this, portion of plot No. 230 was also sold to Respondent Nos. 2 to 4. The Appellant also came to know that the Respondent No. 1 had, by misrepresenting himself as the true owner, also received compensation paid by the Government in respect of the Appellant's land so required. On coming to know of all this, the Plaintiff/Appellant in the year 2004 filed a Civil Suit being Title Suit No. 2 of 2004 in the Court of the Civil Judge, (South and West) at Namchi against the Respondent No. 1 and four others for declaration, possession, injunction and other consequential reliefs in respect of the plot numbers 230 and 232 situated at Namchi Bazar, South Sikkim. 3. In the said suit, all the Respondents filed written statements. The Respondent No. 1 in his separate written statement contended that the Appellant had sold Schedule 'B' land (i.e. plot Nos. 230 and 232), and plot No. 231 along with the house in the plot No. 231 vide, sale deed dated 2-11-1988 and had not only admitted the registration of the schedule land in the year 1988, but had also conceded that small portion of land which was missed out earlier was also included in the name of the Defendant. It was accordingly contended that the Respondent No. 1 had acquired right, title and interest over the schedule property by virtue of registered sale deed and the Appellant's own endorsement dated 10-8-1995. It was further contended that the suit of the Plaintiff/Appellant was also barred by principles of adverse possession. 4. The Respondent Nos. 2 to 4 in their joint written statements denied that they had purchased the land from the Respondent No. 1. They only claimed to be the tenants in occupation of the properties of the Respondent No. 1 on rent. They however contended that the suit was barred by the law of limitation, non-joinder, mis-joinder of the parties, principles of waiver, estoppel and acquiescence. 5. In his separate written statement, the Respondent No. 5 stated that he had extended his assistance as sought for by the parties for effecting registration of an old wooden house standing in the Appellant's land in favour of the Respondent No. 1, on condition that the Respondent No. 1 would break down the kutcha structure adjoining the house. He however denied any knowledge about the rest of the property in dispute. 6. On the basis of the above pleadings of the parties, the learned trial Court framed the following issues: 7. On consideration of the materials on record, and on hearing the parties, the learned trial Court decreed the suit of the Plaintiff vide, Judgment and Decree dated 22-2-2005. On appeal being filed by the Respondent No. 1 in the Court of the learned District Judge, (South and West) at Namchi, the learned District Judge set aside the Judgment and Decree passed by the learned Civil Judge. 8. Aggrieved by the above Judgment and Decree passed by the First Appellate Court, the Plaintiff/Appellant has come up in the present Appeal. 9. At the time of admission of the Appeal, the following substantial questions of law were framed: 10. Mr. K.T. Bhutia, learned Counsel assisted by Miss Neeru Sharma, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant and Mr. A. Moulik, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. N.G. Sherpa, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent Nos. 1 to 4, were heard. 11. On the substantial question of law at Sl. No. 1 above, Mr. K.T. Bhutia, learned Counsel submitted that, while the findings recorded by the learned trial Court were based on proper appreciation of evidence on record, it was not so in the case of the Judgment of the first Appellate Court. According to him, the impugned judgment does not display conscious application of mind and the findings recorded by it being based on misreading of evidence on record, were perverse and liable to be set aside. Mr. A. Mouilk, learned Senior Counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the Plaintiff/Appellant was not entitled to any of the reliefs, as the evidence adduced by him was insufficient to discharge the burden of proof, which lay on him, and to establish the case. It was, therefoe, his submission that the Plaintiff/Appellant cannot be allowed to succeed on the weakness of the defendant's case, and as such, the Appeal was liable to be dismissed. 12. In support of the submission that the learned first Appellate Court misread the evidence, Mr. K.T.
Bhutia, learned Counsel, drew the attention of this Court to the Parcha Khatian marked Ext.P1, the survey map (Ext.P2), the sale deed dated 2-11-1988 marked Ex.P3, and another Parcha Khatian produced by the Defendant marked Ext.B and contended that, these were the documents which were misread by the learned second Appellate Court in arriving at the conclusions which are impugned. 13. In order to appreciate the above submission of the learned Counsel, it is desirable to refer to the above documents and also to reproduce the relevant part for convenience of reference, as follows: (emphasis added). Similarly in T. Rajlu Naidu v. M.E.R. Malak AIR 1939 Nagpur 197 it has been held as follows: Similarly, the Calcutta High Court in Bhola Nath Chattopdhyay v. Mrityunjoy Chattopdhyay AIR 1934 Calcutta 851 has held that
 

Where the boundaries are vague and indefinate the area should prevail but where the boundaries are specified and definite, the land that is conveyed must be the land within those specified boundaries and the area must be taken as having been given approximately. The recitals about area in the body of the document cannot be read as divorced from what is stated in the boundaries. (emphasis added). To the same effect is the law laid down by the Privy Council in P.K.A.B. Co.op. Society v. Govt. of Palestine reported in AIR (35) 1948 PC 207. It was held as follows: 30A. In order to appreciate the above submission of the parties and to find out whether the first Appellate Court placed the burden of proof wrongly on the Appellant on any of the material issues, it is necessary to notice the respective cases of the parties. As already noted above, the case of the Plaintiff/Appellant is that, he had sold away only plot No. 231 vide, sale deed Ext.P3 to the Defendant/Respondent No. 1 and the two plot numbers, namely, plot Nos. 230 and 232 were subsequently incorporated into the sale deed by the Defendant/Respondent. The case of the Defendant/Respondent, on the other hand, is that, he had purchased and the Plaintiff/Appellant had sold to him all three plots of land i.e. 230, 231 and 232 and the question of adding plot Nos. 230, 232 later on as alleged, does not arise. Such being the dispute between the parties, it was the submission of Mr. Moulik as already noted above, that the burden to show that plot Nos. 230 and 232 were subsequently incorporated in the document surreptitiously by the Defendant/Respondent No. 1 rests on the Plaintiff/Appellant. Thus, even going by what Mr. Moulik submits, it would be clear that the two instances on which the burden of proof was placed on the Plaintiff/Appellant were not the main issues, and so far as the onus to prove the main issue relating to sale of only plot No. 231 is concerned, the burden to prove it has been rightly placed on the Plaintiff/Appellant by the learned Appellate Court. It is to be noted that, so far as the onus to prove the main issue placed on the Plaintiff/Appellant is concerned, even the learned Counsel for the Plaintiff/Appellant has no grievance. Therefore, the burden of proof in respect of two instances indicated above, though thrust upon the Plaintiff/Appellant, it would make no difference as far as the onus of proof in respect of the main issue is concerned. 31. At this stage, it is appropriate to notice the principle governing burden of proof in civil cases both at the trial stage and at the appellate stages. The well-established general principle with regard to the burden of proof is that, one who asserts must prove. Hence, the burden of proof rests on the party who substantially asserts the affirmative of the issue and not upon the party who denies it. Accordingly, the issue must be proved by the party who asserts it and not by the party who denies it. AIR 1982 SC 1201. Section 102 of the Indian Evidence Act clearly provides that the burden of adducing evidence rests on the party who would lose, if no evidence is led by any of the parties. But it is to be noted that the burden to prove does not remain static and when a party adduces such evidence, as will support the prima facie case, the onus shifts on the defendant who has then to adduce rebuttal evidence to meet the case made out by the party. In this regard, reference may be made to the decision rendered in Union of India v. Moksh Builders and Financiers Ltd. and Ors. wherein, the Apex Court has laid down the law as follows: 32. In view of the above, it is clear that where contesting parties have led evidence in support of their respective cases, the case of the parlies has to be adjudged on the evidence led by the parties without allowing the abstract doctrine of onus of proof to come in the way. In Kumbhan Lakshmanna and Ors. v. Tangirala Venkateswarlu and Ors. AIR 1949 PC 278 Privy Council has held as follows: 33. In the present case, the learned trial Court after hearing the parties and weighing the evidence, has come to a definite conclusion, and it is found that the conclusion is well supported by the evidence on record. In view of this, the abstract question of burden of proof in respect of issues which are not the main issues, need not detain us any more. 34. As regards burden of proof, in an appeal, the principle is well-established that the onus lies on the party asking for a finding of fact to be disturbed on the ground that it is wrong. It is thus a well established rule that in every appeal it is incumbent upon the appellants to show some reason why the judgment appealed from should be disturbed and that there must be some balance in their favour where all the circumstances are considered to justify the alteration in the judgment that stands see . In the present case at hand it has already been held that the only legitimate conclusion that can be drawn in the circumstances of the case, is that the findings recorded by the Ld. Appellate Court are based on misreading of the evidence and are thus perverse. In the circumstances the Plaintiff/Appellant must be taken to have shown sufficient reason for upsetting the finding of fact by the Ld. Appellate Court. 35. The next question that now requires to be considered is whether any interference by this Court is called for in the circumstances of the case. 36. No doubt, the observation made above that the impugned judgment is erroneous is based on re-appreciation of evidence by this Court. Mr. Moulik, learned Senior Counsel, relying on several decisions, submitted that this Court being the second Appellate Court, it was not open for this Court to interfere with the finding of fact of the Courts below. The submission made by Mr. K. T. Bhutia in this regard, is that, this Court need not lay its hands off where findings of the Court below are found to be contrary to record, and thus perverse. The submission finds support from the decision of the Madras High Court in Raju and Anr. v. Muthuammal and Ors. wherein, it has been observed that, it is the duty of the Court though sitting in second Appeal to assess the evidence on record in order to render real justice to the party, instead of throwing the case on technicalities. It has accordingly been observed that, when the first Appellate Court perversely set aside the trial Court judgment in the second appeal, the evidence can be re-assessed and nothing prevents the Court from doing so. In Kulwant Kaur v. Gurdial Singh Mann the observation made by the Apex Court is as follows: 37. Thus, the law laid down in the decisions cited above makes it clear that, there is no bar in undertaking the reassessment of the evidence on record in the present case, where the conclusion of the Court below is found to be based on misreading of evidence. Accordingly, in view of what has been highlighted above, regarding the perversity of the impugned judgment, I have no hesitation to hold that, in the circumstances of the case an interference by this Court is called for in order to render real justice. 38. Even though the above is sufficient to dispose of the matter, we may also take up some of the other points argued by both parties and taken note of by the learned Appellate Court as follows: 39. One such circumstance taken into consideration by the learned Appellate Court is that, the State Government vide Extraordinary Gazette Notification No. 18/510/LR(S) dated 26-10-1995 had published notice under Section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 by which Plot No. 230 of Namchi Bazar South Sikkim along with some other lots of land were proposed to be acquired. Admittedly, the Plaintiff/Appellant did not take any steps in response to this Notification. Invoking the maxim ignorantia juris neminem excusat (ignorance of law is no excuse), the Ld. Appellate Court held that the Plaintiff/Appellant must be presumed to know the Notification in question and inference was drawn that, the Plaintiff/Appellant did not care to take any steps, since the said property was already alienated by him and had no interest in it. 40. The next circumstance taken note of by the learned Appellate Court is that, it was the admitted case of the Plaintiff/Appellant that the Defendant Nos. 2 to 4 had hurriedly constructed houses on plot No. 230. However, the Plaintiff/Appellant had failed to mention the time as to when the Defendants had raised such construction. The inference drawn in this regard is that, the fact that the Plaintiff/Appellant raised no objection to such construction in time, also goes to suggest that the suit land no longer belonged to him after execution of the sale deed in favour of the Defendant/Respondent No. 1. 41. In the third place, note has also been taken of the fact that even though the Plaintiff came to know about insertion of plot Nos. 230 and 232 in the middle of the year 2000, he woke up from his slumber only in April 2001, and the slow pace in which the Plaintiff/Appellant pursued his matter was not consistent with the conduct of one whose lawful land had been grabbed, if at all. 42. The submission made by the learned Counsel for the Appellant in regard to the above inferences, is that, there was hardly any justification for application of the maxim ignorantia juris neminem execusat and to hold that the Plaintiff/Appellant should be presumed to know the Notification. According to him the conclusion thus arrived on the basis of the inferences by the learned Appellate Court are all unfounded and based on mere surmises and conjectures. This submission of the learned Counsel cannot be easily brushed aside, particularly in view of the fact that the Defendant/Respondent, in the case, has not adduced any reliable and cogent evidence in rebuttal of the case made out by the Plaintiff/Appellant and in support of his case. Note must be taken of the fact that the Defendant/Respondent chose not to place even the most material document, namely, the original sale deed which is presumed to be in his possession on the well recognized principle that he who has the custody of an instrument made for his benefit, is bound to preserve it in its original state. The only explanation put forward by him was that it was taken away by the Plaintiff/Appellant and was in his possession. No case was made out for production of secondary evidence nor any such evidence was produced. 43. Therefore, preponderance of evidence being against the Defendant/Respondent on the main issue itself, I am inclined to agree with the learned Counsel that the above other circumstance like conduct of the Plaintiff/Appellant in taking needful steps after a long delay and his failure to mention the time when the constructions were raised on plot No. 230 etc., are far fetched and cannot be considered as legitimate inferences which support the Plaintiff/Appellant's case. 44. We may now turn to the other corroborative circumstance similarly considered by the learned trial Court. The circumstances taken note of by the learned trial Court, on the other hand, are that the three plot numbers which the Defendant/Respondent claim to have purchased, had not been mentioned serially, that the Defendant/Respondent has not produced the original copy of the sale deed (Ext.P3), which in normal circumstances should have been in his possession as purchaser of the property, that in a 'Bundobast" document (Ext.4), the Defendant/Respondent No. 1 had agreed to dismantle a kutcha shed erected beyond four feet of the house purchased by him with the stipulation and that he will not aspire for any more property from the Plaintiff/Appellant. All these circumstances, as observed by the learned trial Court, have more direct bearing on the issue of sale of only plot No. 231 and furnish logically sound foundation for the inferences drawn by the Ld. Trial Court. Thus the above view taken by the learned trial Court cannot be rejected as having no bearing in the case. 45. The Ld. Counsel for the Defendant/Respondent had also argued that the identity of the land was not properly established by the evidence on record and that the alleged fraud relating to alteration or interpolation of the sale deed (Ext. P3) was not properly pleaded and proved. As regards the identity of the land it has already been held above that the boundary described after excluding the incorrect part is sufficient to identify the land. Regarding pleading and proof of fraud, the specific submission of Mr. Moulik is that, the allegation of subsequent insertion of plot Nos. 230 and 232 in the Sale Deed (Ext. P3) being an allegation of fraud, the plaintiff ought to have pleaded it with proper particulars as required under Order 6 Rule 4 C.P.C . and proved it. The Ld. Counsel placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in A.C. Ananthaswamy and Ors. Appellants v. Boaiah (dead) by Lrs. Respondents . So far as the question of requirements of pleading and proof of fraud is concerned, there can be no second opinion that it must be pleaded and proved as provided under Order 6 Rule 4 C.P.C . However, the question in the present case is whether the allegation made in the present case fall within the meaning of the term fraud. The allegation made in the case is that the insertion of the two plots of land covered by plot Nos. 230 and 232 in the sale deed (Ext. P3) were allegedly made by the Defendant/Respondent subsequently after the execution of the Sale Deed (Ext. P3). It is, therefore, obvious that the allegation made do not fall within the meaning of the term fraud as used in Section 17(3) of the Indian Contract Act and therefore cannot be taken as a fraud contemplated in Proviso (1) to Section 92 of the Evidence Act. In this regard, the following observation of a Division Bench of Bombay High Court in Narsingdas Takhatmal-Plaintiff-Appellant v. Radhakisan Rambakas and Ors. Defendants Respondents AIR 1952 Bombay 425 is enlightening on the point,
 A mere averment of fraud without any particulars would be of no avail to a party. In order to plead fraud effectively the particulars of fraud must be given by the party, and in the absence of such particulars, there cannot be any proper averment of fraud. Even so, the fraud which is alleged must be such as enters into the transaction itself and enables the party to avoid the transaction. It must be fraud within the meaning of the term as used in Section 17(3) , Contract Act, and unless and until the allegations amount to that, there cannot be any valid plea of fraud which can be taken up by a party 
 

Therefore, a fraud in order to vitiate a transaction must be a fraud at the very inception and not a subsequent conduct or representation on the part of the party or his representative-in interest. However, in the case at hand, the allegation of fraud made, relates to subsequent conduct of the Defendant/Respondent and does not enter into the transaction itself. The transaction in question relates to sale of piece of land covered by plot No. 231 of Namchi Bazar, South Sikkim by Plaintiff/Appellant to the Defendant/Respondent No. 1 and in this regard it has already been held above that keeping in view the preponderance of the evidence in the case the plaintiff must be taken to have shown that the land sold vide sale deed (Ext. P3) is only the area of land falling within plot No. 231 and not others. Such being the position non compliance of the provisions of Order 6 Rule 4 C.P.C . with regard to pleading of fraud do not seem to have any direct bearing on the main issue in the case. 46. Now coming to the final submission made by the Ld. Counsel for the Defendant/Respondent, the point raised is that the evidence brought on record by the Plaintiff/Appellant was insufficient to satisfactorily prove the case. Relying on the decision of Calcutta High Court in Roy and Co. and Anr. Appellants v. Smt. Nani Bala Dey and Ors. Respondents AIR 179 Calcutta 50 the Ld. Counsel submitted that as per the law laid down in this case the plaintiff can succeed only on the strength of his own case and not on the defendants weakness. The principle of law cited and relied on is, no doubt, a sound principle of law. It is however to be noted, as held by the then Federal Court in Gangadare Ayyar and Ors. Appellants v. Subramania Sastrigal and Ors. - Respondents AIR (36) 1949 Federal Court 88 that "when it is not possible to obtain evidence which conclusively establishes or rebuts the allegation, the case must be dealt with on reasonable possibilities and legal inferences arising from proved or admitted facts". Thus, under the principle governing standard of proof in civil cases, what would suffice is, preponderance of probability, and accordingly, a party whose evidence is more probable would succeed. In the present case, the evidence adduced by the Appellant viewed in the light of all relevant circumstances, is more probable than that of the Defendant/Respondent No. 1. As noted already, the defendant has not produced even a certified copy of the sale deed Ex.P3 much less original copy of it. It is well-established rule of practice that parties must produce best evidence. The principle is well stated in Choudhury Janardan Parida and Ors. v. Pradhan Das AIR 1940 Patna 245 as follows: 47. Hence, for the reasons, observations and the discussions made above, I am of the view that the Plaintiff/Appellant has been able to make out a case for interference with the impugned judgment dated 30-7-2005 and decree dated 16-8-2005 passed by the learned District Judge (S&W) at Namchi in First Title Appeal No. 1 of 2005. 48. Accordingly, the Appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment and decree passed by the learned District Judge (South and West) at Namchi is set aside, thus affirming the judgment and decree dated 22-2-2005 passed by the learned trial Court. In the circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.