ORDER ON CHARGE: The facts of the case in brief are that the IO of the case namely SI 

R. Srinivasan had received a secret information in the first week of December' 

2010 that A­1 was indulging in illegal kidnapping of children and their 

selling. The said secret information was developed and on 19.12.2010, at 

about 8.00 AM one secret informer came to the office of IO and disclosed 

that few days back A­1 had sold one baby of 8­10 days to A­2 and on that day 

he was going to sell 8­9 months' boy to A­2 again. Thereafter, a raiding party State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 1 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

was constituted and at about 9.45 PM, at Shivaji Vihar, near Hanuman 

Mandir, A­1 and A­2 were apprehended with a child in the lap of A­1. The 

child was taken into police possession, both the aforesaid accused persons 

disclosed about purchase and sale of some other children. The case FIR was 

registered and during the course of investigation, in addition to the aforesaid 

child, three more children were recovered at the instance of both the aforesaid 

accused persons. During investigation, it also transpired that A­3 was also 

engaged in similar activities. She alongwith her associate namely 

Smt.Anupma Lal had sold a female baby of 8­10 days' age to one Smt.Mamta 

Aggarwal and had further, in connivance with Dr.Sunita Mehta had got 

prepared false MCD Birth Registration Certificate in respect of the said baby 

from Kamlesh Medical Centre, 423, Behra Enclave, Paschim Vihar, as the 

said medical centre had facility of on­line registration of births with MCD. Thereafter, A­3 was also arrested in the matter. Later on, A­4, 

being one of the Directors of Kamlesh Medical Centre was also arrested and 

the relevant registers from the aforesaid medical centre were taken into police 

possession. IO also took MCD Birth Certificate of the said child from MCD. The natural parents of the four babies recovered in the matter 

could not be traced. The learned APP for the State has very vehemently argued that 

there is ample material on record to frame charges against all the accused 

persons for offences punishable U/s 368 IPC r/w Section 120 B and 468 IPC. State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 2 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

 Per contra, the learned defence counsels have argued to the 

contrary. I will take up the arguments accused wise. Arguments on behalf of A­1: Arguments advanced on behalf of accused A­2: xxxxx

 2(e) "Children's home"means an institution established by a State 

Government or by voluntary organisation and certified by that Government State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 9 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

under Section 34 ; 2 (f) "Committee" means a Child Welfare Committee constituted under section 29 ; 2 (g) "Competent Authority" means in relation to children in need of 

care and protection a Committee and in relation to Juveniles in conflict with 

law a Board; 2(j) "Guardian" in relation to a child, means his natural guardian or 

any other person having the actual charge or control over the child and 

recognized by the competent authority as a guardian in course of proceedings 

before that authority; 2(x) "State Government", in relation to a Union Territory, means the 

Administrator of that Union Territory appointed by the President under article 

239 of the constitution; Section 31 : Powers of Committee: - Section 32 : Production before Committee- Section 40 Process of rehabilitation and social reintegration - 

 The rehabilitation and social reintegration of a child shall begin 

 during the stay of the child in a children's home or special home 

 and the rehabilitation and social reintegration of children shall 

 be carried out alternatively by (i) adoption, (ii) foster care, (iii) 

 sponsorship, and (iv) sending the child to an after­care 

 organization. State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 11 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011 Section 41 Adoption - Provided that the children's home and the institutions run by the 
 State Government or a voluntary organization for children in 
 need of care and protection, who are orphan, abandoned or 
 surrendered, shall ensure that these children are declared free for 
 adoption by the Committee and all such cases shall be referred to 
 the adoption agency in that district for placement of such children 
 in adoption in accordance with the guidelines notified under sub­
 section (3) State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 12 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

 (5) No child shall be offered for adoption:­ (a) until two members of the Committee declare the child 

 legally free for placement in the case of abandoned children. (b) till the two months period for reconsideration by the 

 parent is over in the case of surrendered children, and (c) without his consent in the case of a child who can 

 understand and express his consent. (2) The court may allow a child to be given in adoption:­ (a) to a person irrespective of marital status or; (b) to parents to adopt a child of same sex irrespective of the 

 number of living biological sons or daughters; or (c) to childless couples

 Rules: FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

 (2) For all matters relating to adoption, the guidelines issued 

 by the Central Adoption Resource Agency and notified by the 

 Central Government under sub­section (3) of Section 41 of the 

 Act, shall apply. (3) In case of orphaned and abandoned children the following 

 procedure shall apply, namely:­ (a) Specialized Adoption Agencies shall produce all 
 orphaned and abandoned children who are to be declared 
 legally free for adoption befoer the Committee withing 24 
 hours of receiving such children, excluding the time taken 
 for journey; (b) a child becomes eligible for adoption when the 
 Committee has completed its inquiry and declares the 
 child legally free for adoption; (c) such declaration shall be made in Form XIV; (d) a child must be produced before the Committee at 
 the time of declaring such child legally free for adoption; (e) whenever intimation is received by the police about 
 an abandoned infant, the police shall take charge of the 
 infant and arrange to provide immediate medical 
 assistance and care; (f) subsequently, the child shall be placed in a 
 specialized adoption agency or recognized and certified 
 children's home or in a paediatric unit of a Government 
 hospital followed by production of the child before the 
 Committee within 24 hours; State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 14 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011 (g) procedure for declaring a child abandoned and 
 certifying him legally free for adoption; (i) in case of an abandoned child, the recognized 
 agency shall withing 24 hours, report and produce 
 the child before the Committee with the copy of the 
 report filed with the police station in whose 
 jurisdiction the child was found abandoned; (ii) the Committee will institute a process or inquiry, 
 which shall include a thorough inquiry conducted by 
 the Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer, as 
 the case may be and who shall give report in Form 
 XIII to the Committee containing the findings 
 within one month; (iii) there shall be a declaration by the specialized 
 agency, stating that there has been no claimant for 
 the child even after making notification in at least 
 one leading national newspaper and one regional 
 language newspaper for children below two years of 
 age and for children above two years, an additional 
 television or radio announcement and notification to 
 the missing persons squad or bureau shall be made; (iv) the steps stated in (iii) shall be taken within a 
 period of sixy days from the time when the child is 
 found in case of a child below two years of age and 
 in case of children above two years of age, this 
 period shall be four monhts; (v) the period of notification shall run concurrently 
 with the inquiry to be conducted and report 
 submitted under clause (ii) of this sub­rule; State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 15 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011 (vi) the Committee shall declare the child legally 
 free for adoption on completion of the process of 
 inquiry, including declaration or the specialized 
 adoption agency made under clauses (ii) and (iii) of 
 this sub­rule; (vii) no child above seven years who can understand 
 and express his opinion shall be declared free for 
 adoption without his consent. A joint reading of all the aforesaid provisions of the Act and 

Rules shows that there is mandate of law that the abandoned children or 

children in need of care and protection, who are found without any home or 

settled place of residence or without any ostensible means of subsistence or 

who do not have parents and are found by somebody, are under the 

guardianship of State and anybody finding them has to produce such children 

before the Committee within 24 hours of receiving such children, excluding 

the time taken for journey. There is a procedure which has to be followed by 

the Committee for giving such children in adoption, as contemplated under 

Rule 33. If the provisions of the aforesaid Act are applied to the facts and 

circumstances of the present case, then it would be apparent that A­1 to A­3, 

who had the possession of abandoned children were supposed to produce such 

children before the Committee and thereafter the Committee would have 

considered their welfare, because such children were in the lawful 

guardianship of State. The said children were concealed by A­1 to A­3 under State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 16 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

a conspiracy and out of the four children, two were given in adoption, without 

following the procedure established by law and as such, there is prima facie 

evidence against A­1 to A­3 for conspiring to sell the children or hand them in 

adoption, in violation of the provisions of the said Act and Rules. I do not find any force in the argument of learned counsel for A­1 

that IMEI numbers shown in call detail records do not match with the actual 

IMEI numbers. I have verified it myself; same do tally. As regards the argument of learned counsel for A­2 that the 

orphanage of A­2 by the name of Nav Roshini Chetan Mahilla Samiti is 

registered one, there is nothing on record to suggest that it was registered with 

the Committee, as contemplated by Section 34 of the said Act. There is other overwhelming evidence in terms of Call Detail 

Records, wherein A­1, A­2 and A­3 were found conversating with each other 

as also with Dr.Sunita Mehta. As regards accused A­4, although there is no evidence against 

him that he was in conspiracy with other accused persons for concealing or 

giving the abandoned children in adoption to third parties, however, there is 

enough evidence on record against him that in the Kamlesh Medical Centre, 

of which he is one of the Directors, forged papers of admission, delivery and State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 17 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

discharge of an abandoned child were prepared and information in respect 

thereof was sent to MCD and on the basis of feeding of such false 

information, MCD was made to issue Birth Registration Certificate in respect 

of child, who was shown to have been delivered by Smt.Mamta Aggarwal. 

However, there is no evidence that it was A­4 who had dealings with said 

Smt.Mamta Aggarwal or her father Shri Tarsem Lal Aggarwal for taking 

money in lieu of preparation of false documents. As such, A­4 is liable to be 

charged with for offences punishable U/s 465 IPC and 417 IPC . As regards the case of prosecution against A­4 that he cheated 

Shri Tarsem Lal Aggarwal to part with a sum of Rs.1,80,000/­, in lieu of 

preparation of false documents of admission, delivery and discharge of the 

child are concerned, ingredients of inducement, as contemplated U/s 415 IPC are missing, as there is virtually no evidence that he was instrumental in 

coxing Shri Tarsem Lal Gupta to handover the aforesaid money. There is 

further no evidence whatsoever that he was in touch with either Shri Tarsem 

Lal Gupta or Smt.Mamta Aggarwal or A­3 and Smt.Anupma. Neither Shri 

Tarsem Lal Gupta nor Smt.Mamta Aggarwal have named A­4 in their 

statements recorded by IO. From the evidence collected by the investigating agency, it is 

apparent that Shri Tarsem Lal Gupta had contacted Smt.Anupma; 

Smt.Anupma alongwith A­3 visited Shri Tarsem Lal Gupta on 09.12.2010 and State V/s Dr.Sunita Mehta & Ors. (Order on Charge) Page 18 of 19 FIR No.173/2010: PS Crime & Railways Date of Order: 08.04.2011

handover the child. On 13.10.2010, A­3 and Smt.Anupma contacted Shri 

Tarsem Lal Gupta and asked him to bring the child to Kamlesh Medical 

Centre, where Dr.Sunita Mehta was already present. A­3 and Smt.Anupma 

came and handed over the discharge slip of Kamlesh Medical Centre to Shri 

Tarsem Lal Gupta on 15.12.2010. Thereafter, during investigation, A­2 took 

police to Dr.Sunita Mehta at Yashoda Clinic at Raghubir Nagar, from whom 

she had got the papers of the child, which were prepared from Kamlesh 

Medical Centre. I have refrained from meticulously considering the evidentiary 

value of the documents collected by the prosecuting agency at this stage, as 

observations made with regard to documents at this stage can prejudice the 

case of accused persons. Separately, let the charge against the accused persons be framed.