We are pleased to announce the speakers for Internet Society’s Peering Roadshow— India Edition, which will be held in Delhi on June 6. The event features a workshop on peering and interconnection, followed by a round table discussion on the state of interconnection in India.

Date: 6th (Friday) June 2025

Time: 10:30 AM – 04:30 PM

Venue: The LaLit, New Delhi

Register to attend the discussion here

To give us perspectives on the many challenges associated with peering and interconnection, we have people from many different parts of the ecosystem. We will have participation from:

Workshop on peering:

Roundtable on interconnection in India:

We are still awaiting confirmation from certain speakers and will update the post once we hear back from them.

What are we discussing?

India’s internet ecosystem is experiencing a critical inflection point. Amid rising data consumption, growing cloud dependency, and expanding digital infrastructure, the efficiency and openness of interconnection systems have become national priorities. Peering—at the heart of this infrastructure—is vital for improving performance, reducing latency, and fostering equitable access across the internet value chain.

Following a recent consultation, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), India’s telecom regulator, has recommended an authorising framework for IXPs in the country, apart from regulatory obligations, such as providing for monitoring of intrusions, attacks and frauds in technical facilities, blocking of websites and subscribers, as well as restrictions from operating in specific areas in India. The ongoing discourse has exposed significant fault lines between telecom operators and other players in the ecosystem, especially concerning issues like licensing, quality-of-service compliance, and peering arrangements.

Remember that this is a curated event that requires you to sign up, so don’t forget to apply to attend .

Our community partners for this event are the Internet Society, Delhi Chapter and Broadband India Forum (BIF).

Note: The post was updated on May 30 at 4:00 PM to include a speaker’s designation .

Note: The post was updated on May 31, 2025, at 2:52 PM to include a speaker.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event