Haptik , an instant messenger concierge-like app, has partnered with football franchise team Mumbai City FC to provide the latter’s fans with information during the upcoming Indian Super League for the entire season. The partnership will allow users to look for FAQs, book tickets, get live scores, trivia, players and match info and opinions among other things. The feature will be available to users as a channel on the Haptik app, and the company will run promotions for the season every time Mumbai City FC wins a game.

The company claims to have over 150,000 app users. Founded in August 2013 by Aakrit Vaish and Swapan Rajdev , Haptik operated like a customer service centre that enabled users to find expert help with products and services. Besides answering customer queries, Haptik experts could also register complaints and provide technical support. The company revamped its product and introduced actionable messaging in July this year. Now users can, for example, search for the price of a TV, find service centres around them, find ATMs, banks, book test drives, web check in for flights etc.

Board appointments In August, Haptik appointed Ram Gupta to its board of members. Gupta would work with Haptik’s management team on strategy and execution of the business. In May, Haptik took on its board of directors Professor Dan Roth. Roth was to work with Haptik’s co-founder Swapan Rajdev to scale Haptik’s Natural language processing (NLP), the backend chat technology and understanding user behaviour to enhance its product and service. Roth would also own a small equity stake and become an equity partner at Haptik.

Tussle with Akosha Earlier this year, Haptik had accused Akosha, an online consumer forum with services similar to those of Haptik, of cloning their app. In a blog post , Haptik CEO Aakrit Vaish pointed that both apps appeared to have an identical interface; and the text that Akosha allegedly initially used in its Android App page description appeared to be the same as for Haptik. Vaish said that Akosha was a company that Haptik tried to partner with when it launched.

In September last year, Haptik secured $1 million investment from Kalaari Capital. It had said that the funds would be used for developing new features, building Haptik’s chat operations centre and marketing.

Image Credit: Flickr user Wayne S. Grazio

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event