Meta’s data-sharing program, Fraud Intelligence Reciprocal Exchange (FIRE), is partnering with banks in the UK and the Australian Financial Crimes Exchange (AFCX) , the primary industry group for the coordination against financial cybercrime to prevent rising instances of financial fraud on the platform.

FIRE, a threat intelligence sharing programme for financial institutions, was launched in pilot in April. Since then, Meta claims that it has successfully taken down a significant concert ticket scam network attempting to target people in the UK and the US and removed approximately 20,000 accounts run by scammers in the UK. Similarly, Meta claims to have removed over 9,000 spam pages and over 8,000 AI-generated celebrity-related scams across Facebook and Instagram in Australia. This is a significant development as Meta has faced criticism in the UK and Australia for failing to take down financial and crypto scam ads, respectively, from major financial institutions and regulators.

UK Finance, a banking and finance lobby group that represents more than 300 financial companies, wrote a letter to the UK’s Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt claiming that Facebook was carrying more than half of digital payment scams suffered in Britain. Major payments company Revolut claimed that 61% of all reported authorized push payment fraud was connected to Meta. UK Bank TSB r eported that fraud on Meta-run platforms cost victims £250m in 2024. In 2022, British digital bank Starling boycotted Meta for failing to tackle fraudulent financial adverts, stating that it would not pay for advertisements on the platform that caused their customers to suffer financial fraud.

To address this, Meta has collaborated with NatWest and Metro Bank to share data and tackle the large amount of fraud on the platform. Nathaniel Gleicher, Global Head of Counter-Fraud at Meta, said that Meta will train systems based on unique information shared by financial institutions.

Adrian Searle, Director of the National Economic Crime Centre, said that intelligence sharing is in line with the Online Fraud Charter in 2023 , a voluntary agreement leading tech companies signed committing to reduce the risk of fraud and financial exploitation of UK citizens on their platforms. He said, “Partnership between the public and the private sector is key to preventing this pervasive threat.”

Revolut has stated that simply data sharing with banks is not enough to tackle the pervasive issue of fraud on Meta’s platforms. It noted that “the emphasis is once again being placed on financial institutions to supply data on scams seen on Meta platforms, rather than Meta investing more to monitor their own sites.” Further, it argued that fraud was a global phenomenon, while this initiative was introduced only in the UK. It also argued that Meta should compensate victims defrauded on its platforms because it profited from fake and fraudulent adverts.

It is worth noting that from October 7, UK Payment service providers like Revolut will be required to reimburse the victims of authorized push payments (APP) fraud for up to £85,000 under Faster Payments rules. The UK dropped the provision within this strategy that would require tech companies to compensate victims, too.

TSB Bank, a British retail and commercial bank, also suggested that Meta introduce a secure payment method on Facebook Marketplace and ban unregulated firms in the UK from advertising financial products and investments, including cryptocurrencies. It also urged Meta to build better platform regulation mechanisms like removing fraudulent content within 24 hours, flagging WhatsApp users when they are contacted by new numbers, and advising them to check the contact is genuine.

Meta has partnered with the Australian Financial Crimes Exchange (AFCX), an industry group for the coordination against financial cybercrime, to create a scam reporting channel between Meta and financial institutions in Australia. Based on these reports, Meta investigates and then shares aggregated information with the banks that identifies scam trends and takes down content.

This comes after the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) sued Meta in 2022 for breaching Australian Consumer Law (ACL) and engaging in false, misleading, or deceptive conduct by publishing scam advertisements featuring prominent Australian public figures.

The lawsuit alleged that Meta was responsible for a growing number of fake ads in Australia that used celebrities to endorse fraudulent cryptocurrency schemes. It said, “It is a key part of Meta’s business to enable advertisers to target users who are most likely to click on the link in an ad to visit the ad’s landing page, using Facebook algorithms. Those visits to landing pages from ads generate substantial revenue for Facebook.”

Further, it alleged that Meta was aware that these were being displayed on Facebook but did not take sufficient steps to address the issue. It claimed that the endorsements were still being displayed on Facebook even after public figures around the world had complained that their names and images had been used in similar ads without their consent. “Meta should have been doing more to detect and then remove false or misleading ads on Facebook, to prevent consumers from falling victim to ruthless scammers” it said. It argued that apart from resulting in losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads.

At a recent hearing, ACCC revealed that 58% of the ads and landing pages for those ads violated Meta’s “advertising policies or, potentially, involved scams.” Meta denied these allegations, stating that it uses both manual and automated reviews to prevent scam ads, has updated its guidelines, and has opted into the Australian Online Scams Code (AOSC).

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event