He had also stated that as per his knowledge one
 Ms. Papiya Mukherjee, daughter of Rathin Mukherjee
 had got illegal appointment in the year 2017 as
 assistant teacher and joined Junior Basic Primary
 School, Panpara, Habibpur, Nadia as smt. Papiya
 Mukherjee neither qualified in TET-2012 nor
 appeared in TET-2014. He stated that this is just one
 example and there are lots of such candidates who
 are ineligible and TET failed who got appointments.
 ...............................................
 Based on the above revelation field investigation was
 carried out by the Investigating Officer of the case on
 the information provided by Shri Soumen Nandy and
 it could be ascertained that the said Ms. Papiya
 Mukherjee got married to one Shri. Jayanta Biswas
 of Kalyani, Distt. Nadia, West Bengal in the year
 2011. The said Shri Jayanta Biswas was traced and
 examined during investigation. He had stated that
 that he belongs to Vill. Mama Bhagina, Bagdah,
 North 24 PGS and they have their ancestral house
 located at Vill. Mama Bhagina. However their family
 has been residing at Kalyani, Nadia for nearly last
 35 years and occasionally they visit Vill. Mama
 Bhagina for agricultural activities. He had further stated that he knows one „Chandan
Mondal‟ of Vill. Mama Bhagina, who used to arrange
jobs of primary teacher/assistant teachers in
different West Bengal Government Schools in lieu of
money. He had also stated that his wife Smt. Papiya
Mukherjee got the appointment as a primary
teacher/assistant teacher in Raghabpur converted
Junior Primary School, Panpara, Habibpur, Nadia in
the year 2017. He had further stated that his wife
Smt. Papiya Mukherjee, had appeared in the TET
2012 but she could not qualify in that test. She had
never appeared in TET 2014 or any other TET
subsequently conducted by West Bengal Board of
Primary Education. He had further stated that in the year 2015 the said
„Chandan Mandal‟ was contacted to arrange a
service of primary teacher/assistant teacher in West
Bengal Government School for Smt Papiya Mukherjee
and he had asked for Rs. 7.5 lacs for the same.
Accordingly in the month of August 2015 an amount
of Rs. 7.5 lacs was paid to Chandan Mondal to
arrange a job of Ms. Papiya Mukherjee. The amount
of Rs. 7.5 lacs was withdrawn from the pension
account of his father Shri Dina Nath Biswas, a
retired Govt. Employee, maintained in State Bank of
India, Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Kalyani, Distt.
Nadia, West Bengal and the same was paid to
Chandal Mondal in cash. Subsequently in the year
Ms. Papiya Mukherjee got her appointment in
Raghabpur converted Junior Primary School,
Panpara, Habibpur, Nadia in the year 2017
.............................................
During the course of investigation Shri Ramesh
Malik, the petitioner in W.P.A. 7907/2019 and two
other co-petitioners namely Shri. Tanumoy Koley and
Ms. Bithika Adak have been examined. All the three
persons were examined and they have stated that in
the year 2014 they had had appeared for TET
(Teachers Eligibility Test) and as per their own
assessment his performance was satisfactory. Out of
these petitioners, thestatement of Shri. Ramesh
Malik was recorded as the other two co-petitioner
Shri. Tanumoy Koley and Ms. Bithika Adak
confirmed the contents of the petition and statement
of Shri. Ramesh Malik. Shri Ramesh Malik had stated that he along with 08
others filed the W.P.A. No. 7907 of 2019 in the
Hon‟ble High Court of Calcutta. He has further stated
that in the said petition one Shri Subhas Kumar 52 Mondal, was cited as private respondent at sl. No. 05. He has stated that the result of TET 2014 was
 published in the month of August 2016 in the
 website of WBBPE but he could not get the
 opportunity to see the result immediately due to poor
 computer network signal. After few days he and
 other petitioners had tried to see the result in the
 website of WBBPE but found that the result was not
 available in the website. He has stated that
 subsequently he and other petitioners along with the
 private respondent, as mentioned above, had visited
 the office of the West Bengal Board of Primary
 Education several times but except Shri Subhas
 Kumar Mondal, the Pvt. Respondent, who could not
 qualify the TET-2014, the result of none of them were
 shown by the Board. He had further stated that in the month of September
 2016 an advertisement was published by West
 Bengal Board of Primary Education for recruitment of
 Primary Teachers wherein it was mentioned that the
 candidates who had qualified TET-2014 could only
 apply. Since his result as well result of other
 petitioners were not published they could not apply
 for that recruitment. He had stated that the subsequent to this
 recruitment process, in the year 2017, it had came
 into his knowledge that the private respondent of our
 petition Shri Subhas Kumar Mondal got appointment
 as Primary Teacher in South Jhapardaha Girls
 Primary School, Distt. Hooghly whereas the said Shri
 Subhas Kumar Mondal could not qualify TET-2014.
 Besides, in a Writ Petition W.P. No. 3129 (W) of 2017
 filed by the said Shri Subhas Kumar Mondal had
 mentioned that he could not qualify in TET-2014." 5. Although, the Status Report of the CBI (supra) fails to meet the

 cutting edge standards attached to a premier investigating agency,

 from the limited excerpts quoted from the said Status Report for

 the purpose of this discussion, this Court does not find the

 approach of the Hon'ble Single Bench to gather all facts by

 directing a responsible forensic investigation, to be flawed. The

 wealth of facts thrown up in the several orders of the Hon'ble 53 Single Bench as impugned in these appeals, stands confirmed from

 the Status Report of the CBI (supra). It has been also stated in the

 Status Report of the CBI that the personalities named in the

 Orders of the Hon'ble Single Bench, upon being interrogated on

 their involvement, have adopted a posture of denial. Naturally

 therefore the denial itself is subject to further forensic examination. 6. Next, comes the issue of the personalities connected to the

 investigation as well as named in the judicial orders and called

 before the Hon'ble Single Bench who claim to have been shamed,

 defamed and condemned even before they were heard. Learned

 Counsel for the appellants and particularly for the said Supriyo

 Sarkar and MB, have been vocal in their arguments on the alleged

 summary nature of the procedure adopted by the Hon'ble Single

 Bench. It is submitted that the Hon'ble Single Bench acted in a manner

 which violates the appellant MB‟s fundamental rights under Article

 21 of the Constitution of India and his right to be protected against

 self-incrimination as guarded by Article 20(1) of the Constitution of

 India. MB has also assailed the direction to furnish affidavits of

 assets of not only himself but also that of his family members. 7. On the issue of preservation of reputation being an inseparable

 facet of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, this Court refers to

 the discussion In Re: Om Prakash Chauthala vs. Kanwar Bhan and

 ors. reported in 2014) 5 SCC 417, which stands in the following

 words: 10. In State of W.B. and others v. Babu
Chakraborthy the principle was reiterated by stating
that the High Court was not justified and correct in
passing observations and strictures against the
appellants 2 and 3 therein without affording an
opportunity of being heard. 11. In Dr. Dilip Kumar Deka and another v. State of
Assam , after referring to the authorities in State of
Uttar Pradesh v. Mohammad Naim , Jage Ram v.
Hans Raj Midha [6], R.K. Lakshmanan v. A.K.
Srinivasan [7] and Niranjan Patnaik v. Sashibhusan
Kar [8], this Court opined thus: - 12. At this juncture, it may be clearly stated that
singularly on the basis of the aforesaid principle the
disparaging remarks and directions, which are going
to be referred to hereinafter, deserve to be annulled
but we also think it seemly to advert to the facet
whether the remarks were really necessary to render
the decision by the learned single Judge and the
finding recorded by the Division Bench that the
observations are based on the material on record
and they do not cause any prejudice, are legally
sustainable. As far as finding of the Division Bench
is concerned that they are based on materials
brought on record is absolutely unjustified in view of
the following principles laid down in Mohammad
Naim (supra): - 13. On a perusal of the order we find that two
aspects are clear, namely, (i) that the appellant was
not before the court, and (ii) by no stretch of logic the
observations and the directions were required to
decide the lis. We are disposed to think so as we find
that the learned single Judge has opined that the
order of suspension was unjustified and that is why
it was revoked. He has also ruled that there has
been arbitrary exercise of power which was
amenable to judicial review and, more so, when the
charges were dropped against the employee.
Commenting on the second charge- sheet dated
15.3.2004 the learned single Judge, referring to the
decisions in State of Andhra Pradesh v. N.
Radhakishan [9], State of Punjab and others v.
Chaman Lal Goyal [10], The State of Madhya Pradesh
v. Bani Singh and another [11] and P.V. Mahadevan
v. M.D. T.N. Housing Board [12], thought it 58 appropriate to quash the same on the ground of
delay. The conclusion could have been arrived at
without making series of comments on the appellant,
who, at the relevant time, was the Chief Minister of
the State. 14. At this juncture, we think it apt to point out some
of the observations made against the appellant: - 15. On a studied scrutiny of the judgment in entirety
we have no hesitation in holding that the
observations made by the learned single Judge were
really not necessary as an integral part for the
decision of the case as stated in Mohammad Naim‟s
case. Needless to say, once the observations are not
justified, as a natural corollary, the directions have
to be treated as sensitively susceptible. 16. In this context, it is necessary to state about the
role of a Judge and the judicial approach. In State of
M.P. v. Nandlal Jaiswal [13], Bhagwati, CJ, speaking
for the court expressed strong disapproval of the
strictures made by the learned Judge in these terms: 17. In A.M. Mathur v. Pramod Kumar Gupta the
Court observed that judicial restraint and discipline
are necessary to the orderly administration of justice.
The duty of restraint and the humility of function has
to be the constant theme for a Judge, for the said
quality in decision making is as much necessary for
Judges to command respect as to protect the
independence of the judiciary. Further proceeding the
two-Judge Bench stated thus: - 18. In Amar Pal Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh and
another , it has been emphasized that intemperate
language should be avoided in the judgments and
while penning down the same the control over the
language should not be forgotten and a committed
comprehensive endeavour has to be made to put the
concept to practice so that as a conception it gets
concretized and fructified. 19. It needs no special emphasis to state that a
Judge is not to be guided by any kind of notion. The
decision making process expects a Judge or an
adjudicator to apply restraint, ostracise perceptual
subjectivity, make one‟s emotions subservient to
one‟s reasoning and think dispassionately. He is
expected to be guided by the established norms of
judicial process and decorum. A judgment may have
rhetorics but the said rhetoric has to be dressed with
reason and must be in accord with the legal
principles. Otherwise a mere rhetoric, especially in a
judgment, may likely to cause prejudice to a person
and courts are not expected to give any kind of
prejudicial remarks against a person, especially so,
when he is not a party before it. In that context, the
rhetoric becomes sans reason, and without root. It is
likely to blinden the thinking process. A Judge is
required to remember that humility and respect for
temperance and chastity of thought are at the
bedrock of apposite expression. In this regard, we
may profitably refer to a passage from Frankfurter,
Felix, in Clark, Tom C.

"For the highest exercise of judicial duty is to
subordinate one‟s personal pulls and one‟s private
views to the law of which we are all guardians -
those impersonal convictions that make a society a
civilized community, and not the victims of personal
rule," 20. Thus, a Judge should abandon his passion. He
must constantly remind himself that he has a
singular master "duty to truth" and such truth is to
be arrived at within the legal parameters. No
heroism, no rehtorics. 21. Another facet gaining significance and deserves
to be adverted to, when caustic observations are
made which are not necessary as an integral part of
adjudication and it affects the person‟s reputation -
a cherished right under Article 21 of the
Constitution. In Umesh Kumar v. State of Andhra
Pradesh and another [18] this Court has observed: - 8. Having regard to the proposition of law on Art. 21 of the

 Constitution as elucidated above, this Court finds the test as to

 whether the Orders impugned of the Hon'ble Single Bench in this

 batch of appeals were offensive of the protection granted under Article 21 or not, requires to be appreciated in the light of the ratio laid down in State of U.P. vs. Mohd. Naim , AIR 1964 SC 703 = 1964 1) CrilJ 549, as already referred to In Re: Om Prakash Chauthala vs.

 Kanwar Bhan and ors. (supra). The tests are as follows:- 9. Applying the tests laid down In Re: Mohd. Naim (supra), this Court

 is of the view that although the Board and, particularly MB, were

 granted the opportunity to produce documentary evidence before

 the Hon'ble Single Bench and were found to be completely lacking

 in such respect, at the same time before pejoratively labelling an

 individual impinging on his rights under Art. 21 , the Hon'ble Single

 Bench ought to have given the affected defendants, including MB, a

 meaningful opportunity to exercise their right of defence. To the mind of this Court, the anxiety of the Hon'ble Single Bench

 to protect the records, data and so on pertaining to TET-2014 from 63 tampering by placing them in the custody of forensic experts such

 as CBI and NIC, cannot detract from the obligation cast upon a

 Court of law to safeguard the requirements of Art. 21. Therefore,

 the Hon'ble Single Bench, although could have expressed

 dissatisfaction at the state of affairs presented before it, was

 required to stop short of using disparaging remarks without

 applying the tests laid down In Re: Mohd. Naim and without

 extending an adequate opportunity of defence. 10. In connection with the above discussion, this Court must now

 notice the line of argument which has emerged from the Learned

 Counsel for the appellants on the procedure of taking evidence by

 the Hon'ble Single Bench applying Section 165 of the Evidence Act. As discussed earlier in this Judgement, Learned Counsel for the

 appellants have strenuously urged that evidence in the manner

 required to be taken under Section 165 of the Evidence Act by a

 Court has not been so done. The powers of the Court to take

 evidence under Section 165 have been discussed In Re: Ram

 Chander vs. State of Haryana reported in 1981 3) SCC 191, at

 Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 in the following words:- 3. With such wide powers, the Court must actively
participate in the trial to elicit the truth and to protect
the weak and the innocent. It must, of course, not
assume the role of a prosecutor in putting questions.
The functions of the counsel, particularly those of the
Public Prosecutor, are not to be usurped by the judge,
by descending into the arena, as it were. Any
questions put by the judge must be so as not to
frighten, coerce, confuse or intimidate the witnesses. The danger inherent in a judge adopting a much too
 stern an attitude towards witnesses has been
 explained by Lord Justice Birkett: In Jones v. National Coal Board Lord Justice Denning
 observed: 11. In the teeth of the above stated elucidation of the law which, albeit

 flows from the manner of conducting a criminal trial and may not

 be wholly apropos to Writ Proceedings which are not controlled but

 guided by statutory procedure, at the same time this Court finds

 the summary application of Section 165 by the Hon'ble Single

 Bench to be offensive of statutory procedure and constitutional

 safeguards. While recognising the jurisdiction of the Hon'ble Single

 Bench to choose the manner of exercise of its prerogative 66 jurisdiction, it requires no emphasis that Justice must not only be

 Done but also Seen to be Done. 12. Next, on the issue of restoration of service of the 269 candidates,

 who were the beneficiaries of the said one mark and

 consequentially granted employment in primary schools, although

 an arguable case has been presented by Learned Counsel for the

 appellants that the termination of their services at the end of three

 to four years of their joining without affording them an opportunity

 of hearing is highly arbitrary, at the same time this Court cannot

 lose sight of the fact that the origins of their services allegedly lie in

 a fraud to which the complicity of the individual candidates

 requires investigation. Before the Hon'ble Single Bench the alleged

 fraud surrounding the grant of one mark to a select list of 273

 candidates could not be satisfactorily explained by the Board. In

 the Status Report of the CBI clear reference has been made to the

 appointment of named candidates who not even appeared in TET- 2014 and, who by their own admission, paid huge sums of money

 to middlemen for becoming TET qualified and securing

 appointments in primary schools. 13. Therefore, this Court reiterates its findings as reported in MAT 490

 of 2022 that the claim to absolute violation of natural justice by the

 appellants cannot come to their assistance in the context of the

 existing state of the facts and circumstances. This Court further

 reiterates the position that since the Hon'ble Single Bench is in the

 process of gathering further facts connected to TET-2014 and such 67 facts are now to be gathered on a mass scale, no single person

 among the appellants can claim an absolute right of a prior

 opportunity to be heard. This Court reiterates the ratio of In Re: 14. Accordingly, prima facie, the appellants who stand terminated from

 their services in terms of the order of the Hon'ble Single Bench

 cannot be granted reinstatement until the results of the

 investigation are available and adjudicated before the Hon'ble

 Court. The related issues such as the legal permissibility of

 declaring a second panel and/or an additional panel by the Board

 with the approval of the School Education Department as well as

 the methodology claimed to have been adopted by the Board to

 award the one mark to the said 273, candidates are also subject to

 the outcome of the forensic investigation and adjudication by the

 Hon'ble Court. It stands to reason that the Hon'ble Single Bench

 found justification in seeking a forensic investigation by the CBI

 considering the fact that the rationale offered by the Board for 68 awarding one mark to the 273 candidates could not be supported

 by hard evidence before the Hon'ble Single Bench. The Hon'ble Single Bench was therefore constrained to record that

 the Board has failed to produce the merit panel as well rebut the

 solid allegation that candidates were declared successful even after

 submitting blank OMR Sheets. 15. In the conspectus of the above facts and circumstances, it

 would be contextual to this discussion to refer to the fact that a

 writ petition being WP 23006 (W) of 2017 was earlier filed before

 the Hon'ble Court also connected to the manner of marking in the

 TET-2014 examination. WP 23006 (W) of 2017 was finally decided

 by another Hon'ble Single Bench by Judgement and Order dated

 3rd of October, 2018, whereby the said Hon'ble Single Bench, inter

 alia, directed the Board to grant six marks in respect of six

 purportedly wrong questions and their wrong answer Keys. The

 benefit of six marks was granted by the said Hon'ble Single Bench

 to the writ petitioners alone of WP 23006 (W) of 2017. 16. The Board is contesting the decision in WP 23006 (W) of 2017 by

 way of an intra-Court appeal which is pending. At the same time

 the Board has complied with the Judgement and Order of the

 Hon'ble Single Bench dated 3rd October, 2018 whereby the six

 marks have been already allotted in favour of the original writ

 petitioners. In its appeal the Board questions the grant of six

 marks being now claimed by other candidates who appeared in TET

 2014 and have been added to the appeal of the Board by a 69 direction of the Hon'ble Apex Court directing analogous

 consideration of the fresh writ petitioners with the appeal of the

 Board on the question whether the six marks granted in favour of

 the original petitions in WP 23006 (W) of 2017 should be treated as

 an exercise in personam or, in rem. 17. It would be noteworthy to point out that throughout the

 adjudication connected to the grant of the six marks (supra), the

 Board never raised the issue before the Hon'ble Court of its

 endeavour to grant the single qualifying mark to a select group of

 candidates paving the way for appointment of the 269 candidates. The silence on the part of the Board to bring the process of grant of

 one mark before the competent Court at a stage when an identical

 question connected to awarding of six marks of the same TET-2014

 examination was under adjudication, shrouds the entire exercise

 conducted by the Board in suspicion, which requires to be

 appropriately dealt with in the pending adjudication. 18. It would be apropos at this point of the discussion to quote in

 extenso the final order in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) dated

 12th of July, 2022 passed in WPA (P) 203 of 2022 with CAN 1 of

 2022 by the first Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court. The said

 order dated 12th July, 2022 has been produced at the hearing

 before this Court by the Learned Counsel appearing for the CBI

 and, its contents are self-explanatory. The said Order reads as

 follows:- 1. By way of this public interest petition,
 petitioner, a social worker and stated to be a
 public spirited person attached to several social
 organizations and a resident of West Bengal
 has made allegation of irregularities,
 illegalities and corruption in the recruitment of
 Assistant Teacher in Primary Schools of the
 State on the basis of Teacher Eligibility Test
 (TET), 2014 2. A preliminary objection has been raised
 by the learned Advocate General by filing
 affidavit on behalf of the respondent no. 1
 questioning the maintainability of the writ
 petition. 3. Learned Advocate General, pressing the
 preliminary objection, has submitted that the
 matter relates to the recruitment process of
 2016-17 and there is a delay of five years in
 filing the present PIL and that question of delay
 is relevant even in PIL, therefore, petition
 needs to be dismissed on this ground. In
 support of his submission, he has placed
 reliance upon judgment of the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court in the matter of Bombay
 Dyeing & Mfg. Co. Ltd. vs Bombay
 Environmental Action Group and Others reported in (2006) 3 SCC 434 and judgment of
 the Bombay High Court in Public Interest
 Litigation No. 68 of 2006 in the matter of
 Breach Candy Residents Association and
 Others vs. Municipal Corporation of
 Greater Mumbai and Others. He has further
 submitted that in WPA 265 of 2019, same
 issue was raised and the petition was
 dismissed, therefore, it cannot be reagitated
 again. He has also submitted that the
 petitioner has no interest in primary education,
 therefore, he has no locus. He has also 71 submitted that the order passed by another
Division Bench of this Court on 17th of
January, 2022 in MAT 899 of 2021 does not
suffer from any jurisdictional error because the
matter was assigned to the concerned
Bench. He has also objected to filing the
supplementary affidavit and has submitted
that petitioner cannot be permitted to raise
new plea in supplementary affidavit. 4. Learned counsel for the respondent no. 7
has also opposed the petition by submitting
that the prayers made in the petitions do not
survive. 5. Opposing the preliminary objection,
learned Counsel for the petitioner has
submitted that the appointment on the basis
of TET, 2014 are still going on, therefore,
there is no delay and that the learned Single
Judge, finding the gross irregularities, had
already entertained the writ petition and
referred the matter to the Hon‟ble Chief
Justice treating it to be PIL, therefore, another
Bench of this Court which had no roster to
hear PIL could not have dismissed the
petition which was treated as PIL. He has
also submitted that the appointments made
are non est and void ab initio, therefore,
they have no right to continue and that it is a
very big scam which needs to be enquired
into by this Court. He has also referred to
various documents enclosed with the petition
and supplementary affidavit in support of his
submission that the issue raised is a live
issue and it is not a belated petition. 6. We have heard the learned counsel for
the parties on the preliminary objection. 7. In the writ petition, a serious allegation has
been made that in the Teacher Eligibility
Test (TET), 2014 Examination, no merit list
and list of empanelled candidates was
published and those candidates who did not
even participate or had not qualified TET, 2014
have been appointed as primary teacher and
the qualified candidates have been left out. An
incident has been mentioned wherein on 30th
of April, 2022, one of the Member of
Parliament had made statement before the
media pointing out the irregularities in TET 72 panel and also about the complaint alleged
against one of the MLA of the ruling party for
taking crores of rupees from job aspirants with
the promise to give government jobs in schools
and arrest of one of the person in that
incident. It is further alleged that one of the
leaders of the ruling party had stated in
public meeting that only the members of the
ruling party will get jobs. Further allegation
on record is that in TET, 2014, 42,897
candidates were stated to have been selected
till date but no merit list of 42,897 candidates
was ever published by the Board by disclosing
the numbers obtained in written, in interview
nor any reserved category-wise list was
published. It is alleged that candidates were
informed through SMS without publishing the
merit list. It is also alleged that, many of the
candidates have not been issued TET, 2014
qualified certificates. 8. West Bengal Primary School Teachers
Recruitment Rules, 2001 were framed
exercising the powers under the West Bengal
Primary Education Act, 1973 for appointment
as primary teacher. These Rules were
amended vide notification published on 13th
of August, 2012 and amended Rule provides
that persons who will score 60 % or above in
the TET Examination shall be considered as
TET passed provided relaxation up to 5 %
marks shall be allowed to the candidates
belonging to the reserved categories such as
SC/ST/PH/EC. The amended Rules further
provides for the manner of awarding marks
under different heads in TET. The
amended Rules provided for TET qualified
candidates to appear in viva- voce/interview
and their overall assessment based upon the
marks prescribed under different heads such
as academic performance, training, TET,
extra-curricular activities, viva-voce,
interview, etc. and thereafter, Selection
Committee is required to prepare a district-
wise merit list of unreserved and reserved
category candidates in the manner prescribed
therein for appointment to the post of Primary
School Teacher. 9. New Rules, namely, the West Bengal 73 Primary School Teachers Recruitment Rules,
2016 were notified on 2nd of March, 2016.
Under this new Rules also, passing of TET
is one of the essential qualification and the
procedure of selection also provides for
taking into account the percentage of marks
obtained by a candidate in the TET
Examination. On the basis of TET, 2014
Examination, appointment notification for
Primary Teachers inviting applications from
TET, 2014 qualified candidates was
published on 26th of September, 2016. It is
alleged that 42,897 candidates have been
appointed as Assistant Teachers without
publishing any transparent merit list. 10. Record reflects that WPA 265 of 2019
in the matter of Swadesh Das vs. State of
West Bengal and Others was filed earlier,
wherein an issue was raised that
12 candidates were given appointment who
were not having requisite documents relating to
TET, 2014 qualification and participation in
the recruitment process of TET. Learned Single
Judge, taking note of this fact, by order dated
27th of August, 2021 had converted the Writ
Petition No. 265 of 2019 into PIL and
directed for placing the matter before the then
Hon‟ble Chief Justice (Acting). The Division
Bench of then Hon‟ble Chief Justice (Acting)
had taken up the petition on 9th of
September, 2021 in WPA 265 of 2019, had
directed the learned counsel for the Board to
produce the entire list of selected candidates
as Assistant Teachers in the Primary School
in the State of West Bengal. 11. On 22nd of September, 2021, the Board
had produced 20 envelopes containing the
record pertaining to selection of 42,000
candidates for the post of Assistant Teachers in
Primary School in WPA 265of 2019 and those
envelopes were taken on record by the Division
Bench headed by the then Hon‟ble Chief
Justice (Acting) and by order dated 15th of
November, 2021, counsel for the petitioner was
permitted to inspect the record in terms of the
earlier order by this Division Bench. 12. Meanwhile, the order of the learned 74 Single Judge dated 27th of August, 2021
passed in WPA 265 of 2019 was challenged
in appeal in MAT 899 of 2021. The Division
Bench No. 4, by order dated 17th of
January, 2022, not only disposed of the
appeal setting aside the order dated 27th of
August, 2021 but also dismissed WPA 265 of
2019 which was being regularly taken up
by the DB No. 1, i.e., the Bench of the Hon‟ble
Chief Justice. The DB No. 4, while disposing
of WPA 265 of 2019, held as
under: 13. In view of the above development, when the
 WPA

 265 of 2019 came up before the DB No. 1 on
 15th of March, 2022, no one appeared for
 the petitioner and the petition was dismissed
 in default. 14. The learned counsel for the petitioner,
 placing reliance upon the judgments of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the matter of State
 of Rajasthan vs. Prakash Chand and
 Others reported in (1998) 1 SCC 1, in the
 matter of Union of India vs. Alapan
 Bandyopadhyay reported in (2022) 3 SCC
 133, in the matter of Jagmittar Sain
 Bhagat and Others vs. Director, Health
 Services, Haryana and Others reported in
 (2013) 10 SCC 136 and in the matter of Campaign For Judicial Accountability
 and Reforms vs. Union of India and
 Another reported in (2018) 1 SCC 196, has
 submitted that the order passed by the
 Division Bench No. 4 of this Court dated
 17th of January, 2022 in MAT 899 of 2021 is
 non est and void as the said Bench was not
 having the jurisdiction to hear the PIL and
 that WPA 265 of 2019 was not listed before
 that Bench but it was listed and being
 heard by the Division Bench No. 1 of the
 Hon‟ble Chief Justice (Acting) which had the
 roster to hear the public interest petition,
 therefore, another Division Bench could not
 have dismissed WPA 265 of 2019 even
 without having the record of the WPA and
 even without listing the WPA. 15. The record reflects that MAT 899 of 2021
 was assigned as per roster to the Division
 Bench No. 4 but WPA 265 of 2019 was not
 assigned to that Bench. WPA 265 of 2019
 was being listed and taken up regularly by
 the Bench of the Hon‟ble Chief Justice
 (Acting) which had the roster to hear the
 public interest petition. Hence, submission of 76 learned counsel for the petitioner is not sans
substance. Hence, on the basis of dismissal
of WPA
265 of 2019, present public interest petition
cannot be held to be not maintainable. 16. It is also worth noting that the entire list
of candidates pertaining to selection of about
42,000 candidates for the Assistant Teachers
in Primary Schools produced as per the
direction of the DB No.1 is already available in
WPA 265 of 2019, the record of which has
been attached to this petition. 17. It is also worth mentioning that
meanwhile, another writ petition being WPA
7907 of 2019 in the matter of Ramesh Malik
and Others vs. The State of West Bengal and
Others was filed before the learned Single
Bench raising the issue that some persons
(whose names were disclosed before the
learned Single Bench) were given appointment
though they had not qualified TET,2014.
Learned Single Judge by the order dated
13th of June, 2022 in WPA 7907 of 2019
has found that 269 such candidates were
given illegal appointment by a queer
method unknown to law and has directed
the CBI to start investigation by holding as
under: 18. The above order of the learned Single
Judge is the subject matter of challenge in
appeal before the Division Bench. 19. The writ petitions have been filed by
individual candidates highlighting the
malpractices in appointment whereas in the
present PIL, entire process has been
questioned. 20. It is also worth noting that the
supplementary affidavit filed by the
petitioner indicates that the appointments
are being made on the basis of the TET,
2014 results even in the year 2021 and
2022. 21. In the above background, if the
petitioner‟s allegation is found to be correct
and if it is established that the Primary
School Teachers have been appointed
without having the requisite eligibility
qualification, then there will be a serious
question-mark on their appointment and on
the issue of continuance in service. Hon‟ble
Supreme Court in the matter of Pramod 78 Kumar vs. U.P. Secondary Education
Services Commission and Others reported in (2008) 7 SCC 153 has held that
illegality of lack of essential qualification is
incurable and for want of it, initial
appointment itself would be a nullity. Any
appointment in violation of the qualification
prescribed in the statute would be a nullity. Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the matter of National Fertilizers Ltd. and Others vs.
Somvir Singh reported in (2006) 5 SCC
493 by taking note of the earlier judgment on
the point has held that if the appointment
is made without following the rules, the
same being a nullity, the question of
confirming the employees would not arise. In
the matter of State of Bihar and Others
vs. Kirti Narayan Prasad reported in 2018
SCC OnLine SC 2615, in a case where the
petitioners were appointed by illegal order
made by the Civil Surgeon-cum-Chief Medical
Officer, the Hon‟ble Court had agreed with
the finding of the State Committee holding
the appointment to be illegal and void ab
initio and had further opined that since
the appointments were ab initio void, they
cannot be said to be civil servants of the
State. Thus, if it is found that on the basis
of TET, 2014, the appointments have been
made contrary to rules and without
fulfilling the minimum eligibility condition,
then those candidates may not have any
right to continue their appointments being
void ab initio. 22. That apart, it is also worth noting that the
matter relates to the appointment of Primary
Teachers and if persons without minimum
prescribed eligibility conditions and lacking
merit are appointed, then the interest of the
primary school students, who are future of
the nation, will suffer. Hence, the allegation
made by the petitioner in the writ petition
cannot be taken lightly and ignored on the
technical plea. 23. So far as the objection of the petitioner
about the impermissibility to raise new plea by
way of supplementary affidavit is concerned, 79 we find that it is a public interest petition and
 the materials placed on record by way of
 supplementary affidavit is relevant to the issue
 raised in the petition, therefore, the said
 supplementary affidavit filed by the petitioner
 cannot be rejected. 24. Having regard to the above circumstances,
 the plea raised by the State for rejection of
 petition on the ground of delay on the basis of
 the judgments in the case of Bombay Dyeing
 & Mfg. Co. Ltd. (supra) and Breach Candy
 Residents Association and Others
 (supra) cannot be accepted, hence, hereby
 rejected. 25. We also find that the petitioner, being a
 public spirited person and resident of the
 State, has locus to raise the issue involved
 in the petition. 26. Thus, in the aforesaid circumstances, the
 preliminary objection raised by the State is
 rejected and the writ petition filed in public
 interest is held to be maintainable. 27. Learned counsel for the State is granted four
 weeks time to file affidavit-in-opposition on
 merit. 28. List on 16th of August, 2022." 19. It would be thus evident that not only the writ petitions being WPA

 7907 of 2019 and WPA 9979 of 2019 connected to TET-2014 are

 under the scanner of the Hon'ble Single Bench but, also a PIL

 being WPA (P) 203 of 2022, dealing with the entire selection under

 TET-2014 is demonstrative of an additional fact finding exercise by

 a Hon'ble PIL Bench of this Court. 20. It would be now profitable to discuss the limits of exercise of

 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It is

 well-established in law that when an authority decides a question 80 of fundamental or legal rights of a person by taking into

 consideration extraneous matters and does not apply its mind to

 relevant matters, then a person aggrieved can apply to the High

 Court under Article 226 to compel the authority concerned to

 disclose the reasons for the decision. If the reasons advanced by

 the authority are found to be extraneous or are not germane to the

 object, the High Court can compel the authority to act within the

 scope of its power (In Re: Kishan Chand vs. Commissioner of Police ,

 AIR 1961 SC 705; M.P. Industries vs. ITO , 1970) 2 SCC 32). In Re: Jaisinghani vs. Union of India , AIR 1967 SC 1427, the

 Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows:- 21. The abuse of absolute discretion by the administrative authority

 stands remarkably dealt with In Re: Padfield Vs. Minister of

 Agriculture, 1968) 1 All ER 694. It was held in no unqualified terms

 by the English Court that no discretion can be exercised to

 frustrate the object of the statute. If the object is frustrated then 81 the Court will be entitled to extend protection to the prejudiced

 individual or class of individuals. In Re: Maneka Gandhi vs. Union of India , 1978) 1 SCC 248 had in

unequivocal terms pronounced as follows:- In Common Cause, A Registered Society (Petrol Pumps matters)

 vs. Union of India 1996) 6 SCC 530 (553), the arbitrary allotment of

 petrol pumps/ gas agencies by one Captain Satish Sharma was struck

 down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the following words:- 22. The exercise of powers under Article 226 mandates that such

 exercise can be done for any other purpose. The expression for any

 other purpose would include within its scope, protection of any

 fundamental or legal right of a person including enforcement of

 public duties by public bodies (In Re: Common Cause, A Registered

 Society vs. Union of India , 1999) 6 SCC 667 (701). Both the Calcutta

 High Court in Carlsbad Manufacturing Company vs. Jagtiani , AIR

 1952 Calcutta 315 and The Allahabad High Court in Union

 Construction Company vs. C.E. AIR 1960 Allahabad Page 74

 expressed pari materia views to the effect that the expression for

 any other purpose must mean for any other purpose for which any

 of the writs mentioned would, according to well-established

 principles, issue. The views of both the High Court's (supra) were

 quoted with approval by the Hon'ble Apex Court in G. Bassi Reddy

 vs. International Crops Research Institute , 2003) 4 SCC 225 (237). It is to be therefore assessed and/or examined having regard to the

 facts of each case, as to whether such facts warrant the exercise of

 powers under Article 226 or not. Therefore, the language used

 under Article 226 extends to the powers of the High Court's to

 issue orders, writs or directions as may be considered necessary

 for enforcement of the fundamental rights and for any other

 purpose as well (In Re: Basappa vs. Nagappa AIR 1954 SC 440). 23. In Roshan Deen vs. Preeti Lal , 2002) 1 SCC 100, the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court held that the role of the High Court under article

 226 is not merely to correct errors of law but also to erase injustice 83 whenever brought to its notice. As a Court of plenary jurisdiction

 the power to do complete justice inheres in every Constitutional

 Court ( B. C. Chaturvedi vs. Union of India , 1995) 6 SCC 749). For the above reasons, this Court holds as follows:- With the above observations and directions, MAT 898 of 2022

with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022 with MAT 912 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of

2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022 with MAT 921 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of

2022 with MAT 924 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022 with MAT 929

of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022 with MAT 938

of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022 and IA No.

CAN 3 of 2022 with MAT 941 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022 with

MAT 942 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022 with MAT 950 of 2022

with MAT 954 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022

with MAT 955 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022

with MAT 956 of 2022 with MAT 957 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022

with MAT 963 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022

with MAT 968 of 2022 with IA No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022

with MAT 969 of 2022, IA No. CAN 1 of 2022 with MAT 973 of 2022, IA

No. CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022 with MAT 990 of 2022, IA No.

CAN 1 of 2022, IA No. CAN 2 of 2022 with MAT 993 of 2022, IA No. CAN

1 of 2022 stand accordingly disposed of. Parties shall be entitled to act on the basis of a server copy of the

Judgment and Order placed on the official website of the Court. Urgent Xerox certified photocopies of this Judgment, if applied for, be

given to the parties upon compliance of the requisite formalities. I agree. (Lapita Banerji, J.) (Subrata Talukdar, J.)