1. This petition has been filed by the petitioner seeking quashing of the FIR
 registered at Crime No.203/2021 by the Police Station M.P. Nagar,
 Bhopal for offence under Sections 376 , 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 506 of IPC
 against him and also the entire criminal proceedings pending in ST
 No.1100/2021 before the 10th Additional Session Judge, Bhopal. 2. Facts giving rise to this petition, in short, are that respondent no. 2 /
 complainant came in contact with the petitioner through social media i.e.
 Facebook. They exchanged their mobile numbers with each other and
 started talking on phone. On 7.10.2019 the respondent no. 2 met with the 2 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 petitioner at Lake View, Bhopal whereupon the petitioner proposed the
 respondent no. 2. Thereafter, on 11.11.2019 the petitioner called the
 respondent no. 2 at M.P. Nagar, Bhopal and the petitioner took the
 respondent no. 2 at the Heavens Cage lounge and Restaurant which is
 situated behind Batra Hospital. It is alleged that the petitioner had
 developed forcible sexual intercourse with her on the false pretext of
 marriage. Thereafter, they kept on talking to each other. After some time,
 when the respondent no. 2 asked the petitioner to marry, he stopped
 talking to her and started abusing her. Respondent no. 2 narrated her
 lamented story to her parents who talked the parents of the petitioner and
 parents of the respondent no. 2 also visited the house of the petitioner
 situated at Amdara, District Satna for having discussion on marriage, but
 the petitioner refused to marry her and also blocked her mobile number.
 Respondent no. 2 made complaint in C.M. Helpline and at other places
 but the same were withdrawn by the respondent no. 2 because she
 believed that the petitioner would marry her at a later point in time. But
 now the respondent no. 2 has lodged a report in Police Station M.P.
 Nagar, Bhopal regarding making of forcible physical relations on false
 pretext of marriage against the petitioner, upon which, FIR is registered
 at Crime no. 203/2021 for offence under Sections 376 , 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 506 of IPC against the petitioner. Thereafter, the respondent no. 2
 was sent for medical examination wherein the respondent no. 2 admitted
 the fact before the concerned Doctor that she herself entered into physical
 relationship with the petitioner with her own consent and will. Thereafter,
 her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded before the 3 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 concerned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Bhopal, wherein she stated that
 she developed physical relationship with the petitioner with her own
 consent and will. Thereafter, the petitioner had moved an application
 under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail before the Session
 Court, Bhopal which was rejected by 12th Additional Sessions Judge,
 Bhopal. Thereafter, the petitioner had filed an application under Section
 438 of Cr.P.C. before the High Court which was registered as M.Cr.C.
 No.22223/2021 and the objections were raised by the respondent no. 2.
 However, the High Court was pleased to allow the application vide order
 dated 9.8.2021. Statement of the respondent no. 2 / prosecutrix was again
 recorded by the police authorities wherein she had changed her version.
 The Police after completion of the investigation filed the charge sheet on
 15.4.2021 before the concerned Court. 3. It is contended by learned counsel for the petitioner that looking to the
 facts and circumstances of the case and the allegations made against the
 petitioner, prima facie no offence under Sections 376 , 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 506 of IPC is made out. However, the learned trial Court has framed
 the charges under the aforesaid Sections. Being aggrieved by the
 registration of FIR as well as framing of charges, the petitioner has
 preferred this petition seeking quashing of the FIR and consequent thereto
 the entire criminal proceedings. 4. At the outset it is submitted by counsel for the petitioner that the
 respondent no. 2 / prosecutrix is major and she is already married to one
 Monu Sharma. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261 5. It is argued by counsel for the petitioner that earlier the respondent no. 2 /
 victim got married to one Monu Sharma. The marriage was solemnized at
 Arya Samaj Vedic Sanskar Trust, Delhi on 21-06-2019. In this regard, a
 marriage certificate was also issued on 21-06-2019. It is argued that a
 similar FIR was also registered at Crime No. 43 of 2023 for offence under Sections 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 323 of IPC at Police station Omti district,
 Jabalpur by the respondent no.2 against one Jitendra Kumar Mishra,
 which was later-on quashed by this Court vide its order date 30-11-2023
 in MCRC No.38157/2023. The Court while quashing the FIR had made
 certain observations that the prosecutrix is using the same modus
 operandi for lodging FIRs against various persons, despite of the fact that
 she herself is married to one Monu Sharma and has not taken divorce
 from Monu Sharma till date. The Court has made further observation that
 it is clear that Prosecutrix 'X' is misusing the provisions of law to grind
 her own axe and further directed to upload the order and observations
 made by this Court in interoperable Criminal Justice System, so that the
 police stations shall have information in advance regarding the modus
 operandi of the Prosecutrix 'X' in laying honey trap and falsely
 implicating innocent persons in false cases. It is further argued that the
 said order has attained finality as the same is not put to challenge at any
 point of time. The similar is the situation in the case. It is submitted that
 the petitioner had entered into physical relationship with the consent of
 the respondent no.2 as he did not know that she is already married to one
 Monu Sharma way back in 2019. This fact was not disclosed by the
 respondent no.2 to the petitioner at any point of time. As soon as he came 5 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 to know about earlier marriage of the respondent no.2, he refused to
 marry her because that marriage with Monu Sharma was still in existence
 as no documents pertaining to divorce from Monu Sharma were placed
 before him. Under these circumstances, it cannot be said that on false
 pretext of marriage, the physical relations were made by the petitioner. 6. It is further pointed out that the statement of the victim was also recorded
 by the Registrar (J-II) in pursuance to the order dated 19-12-2023 passed
 by this Court. The same is placed before the Court in a sealed cover for
 perusal wherein she has stated that in the year 2019 she got married to
 Monu Sharma forcefully and after marriage, she is not residing with him.
 She admitted the fact of lodging an FIR against one Jitendra Kumar
 Mishra and further admitted the fact that the FIR lodged by her was
 quashed, meaning thereby she is aware of quashment of an FIR against
 Jitendra Kumar Mishra way back in the year 2023 itself and has chosen
 not to challenge the said order at any point of time. She has made a
 statement that she wants to take the case back and does not want to
 proceed in the matter looking to her future as there was a possibility of
 her getting married somewhere. She was under an apprehension that in
 case, she does not take the case back; there is a possibility that the
 petitioner and other too will discredit her. In support of his contentions he
 has placed reliance on the judgments passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Dhariwal Tobacco Products Ltd. Versus State of
 Maharashtra, SCC 2009 (2) P. 370, Deepak Gulati vs. State of Haryana
 ( 2013) 7 SCC 675, Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar vs. State of Maharashtra ( 2019) 18 SCC 191, Maheshwar Tigga vs. State of Jharkhand (2020) 10 6 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 SCC 108 and prayed for quashment of the FIR and consequential
 proceedings thereto. 7. Counsel appearing for the State has argued in support of the prosecution
 case and submitted that the investigation is over and the charge sheet has
 been filed in the matter for the alleged offences. It is further submitted
 that the allegations levelled against the petitioner by the victim /
 prosecutrix are serious in nature. Her statement under Section 164 of
 Cr.P.C. recorded before the JMFC on 16.4.2021 was virtually repeating
 the contents of the FIR. Therefore, once she has specifically stated
 against the petitioner, no case for quashing of the FIR is made out.
 However, he has not disputed the fact that she is already married to Monu
 Sharma and the FIR lodged against Jitendra Kumar Mishra in the similar
 circumstances was quashed by this Court wherein the Court has made
 certain observations against the respondent no. 2 / complainant. 8. Respondent no. 2 / victim is present before this Court. She was asked that
 whether she is willing to argue the mater herself or wants to address the
 arguments through a counsel, she submits that she herself will argue the
 case. She was further asked that whether she is ready to argue the matter
 today, she submits that she will address the Court and is ready for
 arguments today. Thus, the matter is taken up for consideration. 9. It is the contention of the respondent no. 2 that she entered into a sexual
 relationship with the petitioner solely for the reason that he had promised
 to marry her and this relationship continued for some time and was
 broken when the promise of marriage was not fulfilled by the petitioner.
 In other words, the main allegation of the victim / respondent no. 2 is that 7 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 had it not been for the promise of marriage made by the petitioner, she
 would have never entered into a physical relationship with him and
 considering that this was done by cheating, the same amounts to rape.
 Further contention is that there was confabulation in the family of the
 petitioner for the marriage of the petitioner with her as they were in
 continuous conversation. They used to frequently meet each other and on
 the pretext of marriage, she made physical relationship with the
 petitioner. But, now as the petitioner and his family members have
 refused to solemnize marriage with her coupled with the fact that
 subsequently the petitioner had also refused to marry her, she was having
 no other choice except to make complaint against the petitioner. She has
 stated that she was compelled to get married to one Monu Sharma in
 Arya Samaj Vedic Sanskar Trust, Delhi. She had also lodged an FIR
 against Monu Sharma in the year 2019 resulting in arrest of Monu
 Sharma and in order to save himself from a criminal case, he solemnized
 marriage with respondent no. 2 in Arya Samaj Mandir but after that, she
 was not residing with Monu Sharma and that case is still pending against
 Monu Sharma at Dwarika Court, New Delhi. She has further contended
 that as far as the quashment of the FIR regarding other accused Jitendra
 Kumar Mishra is concerned, she will challenge the order of quashment of
 the FIR before the higher Court. It is further contended by her that her
 statement is due to be recorded before the Trial Court. Since, she has
 clearly stated in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. before the
 trial Court against the petitioner, therefore, no case for quashment of the
 FIR is made out. She submits that the petitioner has spoiled her entire life 8 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 and if he refused to marry her now, then, her entire life would be ruined,
 therefore, she wants to continue with the prosecution and she has prayed
 for dismissal of the petition. 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and the respondent no. 2 / victim
 and perused the record. 11. From a perusal of the record it is revealed that the FIR has been registered
 for offence under sections 376 , 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 506 of IPC at Crime
 No. 203/2021 by Police Station M. P. Nagar, Bhopal, wherein the
 complainant / respondent no. 2 has alleged against the present petitioner
 that the petitioner had physical relationship with her against her consent
 by making a false promise that he would marry her but subsequently he
 did not marry her. From perusal of the FIR it is seen that the complainant
 / respondent no.2 is a major woman. His father is working as Head
 Constable in SF. The petitioner as well as complainant came in contact
 through Facebook and starting chatting to each other. They also
 exchanged their mobile numbers. On 11.11.2019 physical relations were
 developed between them. She consented to have physical relationship
 with the petitioner on the misconception of fact that he would marry her
 because of the promise made by the petitioner that he would ultimately
 marry her and thereafter, on several occasions, physical relations were
 developed between them. But later on, when the petitioner started
 neglecting her and stopped talking to her, she narrated her tale of woe to
 her parents. She had visited the petitioner' house but he refused to marry
 her. Thereafter, she made a complaint on CM Helpline. However, the said
 complaint was taken back as she was expecting that the petitioner would 9 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 marry her but later on, he did not marry her and ultimately, complaint
 was made on 15.4.2021. Her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C was
 recorded before the JMFC on 16.4.2021 wherein she has virtually
 reiterated the same story. However, in addition, she stated that in
 February, 2020 she narrated the entire incident to her patents including
 making of physical relation by the petitioner on the pretext of marriage
 and thereafter, in October, 2022 the parents of the petitioner as well as
 parents of the respondent no. 2 visited each other's house but thereafter,
 the petitioner had refused to marry her and blocked her mobile number.
 In January 2021, she had gone to the petitioner' house where he abused
 her as well as her father too and a threat was also given to her. Thereafter,
 complaint was made. From perusal of the entire statement, one thing is
 clear that she is a major woman and well aware of the pros and cons of
 the act which she is committing. She has not disclosed the factum of her
 earlier marriage with Monu Sharma in the complaint as well as in the
 statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., which makes it clear
 that the factum of her marriage with Monu Sharma was not even told to
 the present petitioner. 12. Counsel for the petitioner has argued that there was no dispute with
 regard to marriage to be done with the complainant but since the factum
 of marriage of the respondent no. 2 with Monu Sharma came to the
 knowledge of the petitioner, he had refused to marry her as her marriage
 with Monu Sharma was still in existence and there are no documents
 placed before this Court or shown to the petitioner that her marriage is
 dissolved by any Competent Court, therefore, until and unless the 10 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 marriage is in existence, there is no possibility of marrying her again as
 the same amounts to an offence of bargaining. As soon as the fact of
 marriage of the complainant with Monu Sharma came to the knowledge
 of the petitioner, he refused to marry her. Therefore, it cannot be said that
 on false pretext of marriage, the petitioner had physical relationship with
 the complainant. 13. The factum of marriage with Monu Sharma is also not disputed by the
 respondent no.2. The documents are placed on record along with IA
 No.1543/2024 i.e. certificate of marriage issued by Arya Samaj Vedic
 Saskar Trust, Delhi on 21.6.2019 wherein the date of marriage is shown
 as 21.6.2019. It is also not disputed that the said marriage has not yet
 been dissolved and the same is in existence. The argument of the
 complainant before this Court is that it was a forceful marriage and she
 does not acknowledge the said marriage. However, the fact remains that
 her statement was recorded by the Registrar (J-II) in pursuance to the
 order of this Court dated 19.12.2023 wherein she clearly stated that she
 got married to Monu Sharma because Monu Sharma wanted to save
 himself from the criminal case registered against him in the year 2019, in
 which, he was sent to jail and after getting the bailed out, he solemnized
 marriage with the complainant. The record indicates that a similar FIR
 was also registered against one Jitendra Kumar Mishra, resident of
 Jabalpur wherein almost similar allegations were made and that FIR was
 quashed by this Court in M.Cr.C.No.38157/2023 vide order dated
 30.11.2023. While quashing of the FIR, the Court had made certain
 comments regarding modus operandi of the complainant that she is 11 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 habitual of lodging such type of FIR and further directed the Police
 authorities to upload the modus operandi of the victim in interoperable
 Criminal Justice System as she has falsely implicated the innocent
 persons in false cases. The relevant portion of the observations made by
 the Court are as under :- NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261 15. Hon'ble The Supreme Court in several cases has categorically held that
 if the parties are major and the victim giving consent to physical relation
 is aware of pros and cons of her act of making physical relations does not
 fall in the category of offence under Sections 376 and 376 (2) of the IPC
 and registered a criminal case and subsequently, criminal proceedings
 initiated against the petitioner / accused is abuse of process of law. 16. The Supreme court in the case of Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar (supra)
 has held as under :- 17. The Supreme court in the case of Maheshwar Tigga (supra) has held as
 under :- It is not possible to hold in the nature of evidence
 on record that the appellant obtained her consent at 15 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 the inception by putting her under any fear. Under Section 90 IPC a consent given under fear
 of injury is not a consent in the eyes of law. In the
 facts of the present case we are not persuaded to
 accept the solitary statement of the prosecutrix that
 at the time of the first alleged offence her consent
 was obtained under fear of injury. 14. Under Section 90 IPC, a consent given under a
 misconception of fact is no consent in the eyes of
 law. But the misconception of fact has to be in
 proximity of time to the occurrence and cannot be
 spread over a period of four years. It hardly needs
 any elaboration that the consent by the appellant
 was a conscious and informed choice made by her
 after due deliberation, it being spread over a long
 period of time coupled with a conscious positive
 action not to protest. The prosecutrix in her letters
 to the appellant also mentions that there would
 often be quarrels at her home with her family
 members with regard to the relationship, and
 beatings given to her. 18. The Supreme court in the case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar vs. State
 of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 608 has held as under :- 19. If the aforesaid settled proposition of law is applied to the facts and
 circumstances of the present case, it is clear that the petitioner was
 initially willing to marry the complainant but as she had suppressed the 17 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 factum of earlier marriage with Monu Sharma, the petitioner did not
 marry her. She had made physical relations on several occasions but she
 did not disclose that she is already married to one Monu Sharma and
 eventually made complaint against the petitioner. Her statement recorded
 under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. before the Magistrate does not disclose that
 she is already married. As soon as the factum of marriage of complainant
 came to the knowledge of the petitioner coupled with the fact that the said
 marriage is still in existence and is not dissolved at any point of time, he
 refused to marry her. The same cannot be said to be unintentional denial
 of marriage and it also does not amount to making of physical
 relationship on false pretext of marriage. The intention of parties is to be
 gathered from the facts and circumstances of each case. In the present
 case, as there is no disclosure of earlier marriage on the part of the
 complainant, it cannot be said that the petitioner has intentionally and
 deliberately made physical relations on false pretext of marriage with the
 complainant coupled with the fact that the FIR lodged against Jintendra
 Kumar Mishra has already been quashed by this Court in M.Cr.C.
 38157/2023 vide order dated 30.11.2023 while making certain comments
 against the modus operandi of the victim i.e. the respondent no. 2 herein. 20. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in a catena of judgments has held that the
 mere fact that physical relations were established pursuant to a promise to
 marry will not amount to a rape in every case. In order for the offence of
 rape to be made out, two conditions need to be satisfied i.e. that the
 promise of marriage was made by the accused solely with a view to
 obtain consent for sexual relations without having any intention of 18 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 fulfilling said promise from the very beginning, and that the false promise
 of marriage had a direct bearing on the prosecutrix giving her consent for
 sexual relations. From a perusal of the record, it is clear that this was a
 case of a consensual relationship from the beginning. Even if the case of
 the prosecutrix is accepted, it does not appear that the initial promise to
 marry was in bad faith. It was only the subsequent circumstances that
 prevented fulfillment of alleged false promise to marry. Resultantly, the
 relationship turned sour which has given rise to the present FIR. 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Neeharika Infrastructure (P)
 Ltd. vs State of Maharashtra reported in (2021) 19 SCC 401 has dealt
 with the proposition of quashing of the FIR and especially in paragraph
 80 has framed guidelines, which reads as under :- before the competent court. The High Court shall not
 and as such is not justified in passing the order of not
 to arrest and/or no coercive steps either during the
 investigation or till the investigation is completed
 and/or till the final report/chargesheet is filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C., while dismissing/disposing of
 the quashing petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.
 xvii) Even in a case where the High Court is prima
 facie of the opinion that an exceptional case is made
 out for grant of interim stay of further investigation,
 after considering the broad parameters while
 exercising the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
 referred to hereinabove, the High Court has to give
 brief reasons why such an interim order is warranted
 and/or is required to be passed so that it can
 demonstrate the application of mind by the Court and
 the higher forum can consider what was weighed
 with the High Court while passing such an interim
 order. xviii) Whenever an interim order is passed by the
 High Court of no coercive steps to be adopted within
 the aforesaid parameters, the High Court must
 clarify what does it mean by no coercive steps to be 22 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:31261

 adopted as the term no coercive steps to be adopted
 can be said to be too vague and/or broad which can
 be misunderstood and/or misapplied." 22. On perusal of the said guidelines it is clear that the FIR can be quashed at
 any stage if it amounts to abuse of process of law. Further, there is
 already an observation made by this Court in earlier round of litigation
 against the victim that her modus operandi is amounting to misuse of
 process of law. Therefore, this court deems fit appropriate to quash the
 FIR registered against the petitioner. 23. In the light of the afore-quoted judgments and the observations made
 during the course of the order, if the FIR and the further proceedings
 against the petitioner are not obliterated and the trial is continued, it
 would, on the face of it, become an abuse of the process of law and result
 in miscarriage of justice. 24. Consequently, this petition is allowed and the FIR registered at Crime
 No.203/2021 by the Police Station M. P. Nagar, Bhopal for offence under Sections 376 , 376 (2) (n) , 294 and 506 of IPC against the petitioner
 Arunendra Kumar Gautam is hereby quashed and the entire criminal
 proceedings pending in ST No.1100/2021 before the 10th Additional
 Session Judge, Bhopal against the petitioner is also quashed. (VISHAL MISHRA)
 JUDGE

 JP Digitally signed by JITENDRA KUMAR PAROUHA Date: 2025.07.17 10:59:51 +05'30'