Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.: 15. It was further averred in the plaint that Amway's products were being sold
by the Defendants at much cheaper prices than the market price and that this
cast ―serious doubts‖ on the authenticity of Amway's products sold by the
Defendants. It was claimed that Amway ―has been facing huge financial
losses on account of the illegal activities of the Defendants.‖ 16. On 22nd September, 2017, Amway sent a cease and desist notice to
Amazon, asking it ―to remove reference to any statement/advertising/display FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 9 of 69 of ‗Amway products' from its website.‖ 17. Amazon is stated to have replied to Amway by a letter dated 11 th October,
2017, denying Amway's contentions and emphasizing that it merely provided
an online platform for sale of various consumer goods and products by
different registered sellers/vendors; that it did not monitor or control the
transactions occurring on its website or mobile application, and that Amway
could initiate action against its vendors/sellers, who were engaged in selling
Amway products online without its authority or consent or selling spurious
and counterfeit products under its name. According to Amway, Amazon's
stand was contrary to Amazon's ―exclusion policy‖ that did not allow on its
online portal the sale of products by a person in the following situations: 18. Amway sent another notice dated 6th November, 2017 to Amazon refuting
the averments made by Amazon in their reply dated 11th October, 2017.
Amway contended that Amazon was ―actively involved‖ in the sale of its
products and was ―providing services such as helping sellers manage their
accounts, increase visibility, discoverability and sale of products, listing of
products etc‖. According to Amway, Amazon was also publishing
advertisements in the print media offering Amway products on its online
portal. 19. Amway states that Amazon and its affiliates were not acting merely as
―intermediaries‖, but were actively involved in the sale of Amway products.
This averment is in the context of Amazon contending that it falls within the
definition of an ―intermediary‖ under Section 2 (1) (w) of the Information
Technology Act, 2000 (‗ IT Act ') and that subject to Section 79 (2) and (3)
thereof, it would under Section 79 (1) be exempt from any liability arising out
of content uploaded by third parties such as sellers on Amazon's online
platform ―www.amazon.in‖. Amazon also refers to the Information
Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011 (‗Intermediary
Guidelines') which requires due diligence to be undertaken by intermediaries,
which Amazon claims to have complied with. 20. In the plaint it is averred that on 21st September, 2018 Amway's
representative purchased the Amway products from Amazon's website. 21. Further, a reference was made to the fact that by an order dated 1st June,
2018 in CS (OS) 297/2018 filed by Amway against ―some identified and
unidentified medical shops/pharmacist in Bhagirath Palace, Delhi‖, this Court
had granted an ad interim injunction and John Doe order against all the
Defendants in the said suit. The Court also appointed four Local
Commissioners (‗LCs') and during raids it was found that Amway products
worth lakhs of rupees with or without unique codes had been seized in the
shops of such Defendants. Reference is also made to two other Civil Suits
being CS (OS) 410/2018 and 453/2018 filed by Amway against two online
aggregators/market places, in which an interim injunction restraining those
online market places from selling Amway's products, without its prior FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 11 of 69 authorisation, was passed. The LCs appointed in those suits were also asked
to make an inventory of the Amway products being sold, to seal them and
return them on superdari. 22. The prayers in CS (OS) 480/2018, inter-alia were for a decree of
permanent injunction restraining the Defendants ―from in any manner
purchasing, possessing, selling, distributing, offering for sale, advertising/
displaying Plaintiff's 'Amway products' on the website of Defendant No. 4 i.e.
www.amazon.in and mobile application "Amazon Online Shopping" or any
other website/mobile application or any other portal without the prior written
consent of the Plaintiff.‖ 23. The prayer against Amazon apart from the above reliefs, was for a
permanent injunction restraining Amazon, its ―Directors, vendors, sellers,
agents, affiliates, servants, licensees, franchisees, representatives and
employees or any one claiming under them, directly or indirectly, from in any
manner purchasing, possessing, selling, distributing, offering for sale,
advertising/ displaying Plaintiffs 'Amway products' from its website
www.amazon.in and mobile application "Amazon Online Shopping" or any
other platform, without the prior written consent of the Plaintiff.‖ 24. The further incidental prayer was for a direction to the Defendants to
―disclose the details of the distributors/dealers/Direct-Sellers of the Plaintiff
from whom they are procuring the ‗Amway products' or any other person or
entity involved in such unauthorised transaction of ‗Amway products'‖. The
final prayer in the plaint was for a decree of damages in the sum of Rs. 2,00,01,000/- together with interest at 18% per annum thereon from the date
of filing of the suit till its realisation apart from unquantified punitive
damages. 25. At the first hearing of the suit i.e. CS (OS) 480/2018 on 26th September,
2018, the learned Single Judge passed an order granting an interim injunction
restraining the Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 not to offer for sale any of the products
in the Amway range either through the website ―www.amazon.in‖ or through
their mobile application. Further if the same were genuine products,
Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 were permitted to approach Amway to establish the
same, and if they were able to obtain Amway's written approval then ―they
may be permitted to sell the products.‖ As far as Amazon was concerned, it
was noted in the order that its counsel had agreed to take down Amway
listings from the online platform. It was accordingly directed that Amazon
shall within three days, pull down all Amway listings on both the e-commerce
platform and the mobile application and confirm the same to Amway through
the counsel. It was stated that ―the question as to whether the e-commerce
platform is liable in such situations and whether the doctrine of exhaustion
would apply, would be gone into on the next date of hearing‖. 26. By the same order, the learned Single Judge disposed of IA No. 13160/
2018 by appointing four LCs to visit the premises of Defendant Nos. 1 to 3
and directing them to ―make an inventory and take into custody all impugned
products, including packaging, labels, stationery, hoardings and other
materials bearing the mark ―AMWAY‖. The LCs were authorised to seal the
impugned products and return them on superdari after obtaining undertakings FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 13 of 69 of the respective Defendants. 27. The four LCs so appointed, submitted their respective reports to the Court
on 6th, 12th, 15th and 16th October, 2018 respectively. Amazon filed an
additional affidavit dated 31st May, 2019. The applications were heard along
with similar applications in the other connected suits. 28. The interim injunction applications in the suits were heard on 13 dates
between 10th January, 2019 and 30th May, 2019 on which date judgment was
reserved. The impugned judgment was thereafter pronounced on 8th July,
2019 granting the relief as noticed hereinbefore. 29. As far as the other two appeals of Amazon are concerned, FAO (OS) 134/
2019 arises out of the suit CS (OS) 91/2019 filed by Oriflame against six
Defendants of which Defendant Nos. 1 to 5 were registered sellers on
Amazon. This included Cloudtail as Defendant No. 1 and Defendant No. 6
was Amazon itself. 30. This suit was first listed on 14th February, 2019 when an order on similar
terms as the interim order dated 26th September, 2018 in the Amway Suit [CS
(OS) No. 480/2018] was passed. The suit of Oriflame was based entirely on
the DSGs, claiming that the said guidelines have the force of law. 31. At this stage of the case, Ms. Maninder Acharya, learned Additional
Solicitor General of India (‗ASG') appeared and submitted that the Direct
Selling Guidelines ―have to be followed though they are advisory in nature‖. According to the ASG, guidelines of such nature had been issued ―by various
Ministries and have binding effect under Article 77 of the Constitution.‖ It
was noted by the learned Single Judge in the order dated 14th February, 2019
that an affidavit would be filed in that regard. An interim injunction of similar
nature was issued. It may be noted here that Oriflame too claims that it is a
DSE which is bound by the DSGs and that the sale of its products on
Amazon's online platform without its consent, would be in violation of
Clause 7 (6) of the DSGs. 32. The third appeal by Amazon, i.e. FAO (OS) 135/2019, arises from CS
(OS) 75/2019 filed by Modicare which also claims to be a DSE governed by
the DSGs. This suit was filed against Amazon (Defendant No. 1) and two
other sellers on Amazon's platform i.e. Laxmi Enterprises (Defendant No. 2)
and Modicare DP Store (Defendant No. 3). On 5th February, 2019, an order
was passed in the said suit by the learned Single Judge granting interim
injunction on the same lines as the order dated 26 th September, 2018 in CS
(OS) 480/2018 filed by Amway. Facts concerning appeals by Cloudtail and Snapdeal 33. The two Appeals by Cloudtail, FAO (OS) 141/2019 & 142/2019 arise
from the aforementioned suits filed against Amazon and the sellers on its
platform which included Cloudtail, by Amway and Oriflame respectively. It is
Cloudtail's case that it too is an ―intermediary‖ in terms of the IT Act and the
Intermediary Guidelines. It too raises questions regarding the legal binding
effect of the DSGs. 34. The 6th Appeal is by Snapdeal. It arises out of CS (OS) 453/2018 filed by
Amway against nine Defendants with the ninth Defendant being Jasper
Infotech Private Limited (‗Jasper Infotech') which runs the e-commerce
website ―www.snapdeal.com‖. It may be noticed here that the name of Jasper
Infotech has been changed to Snapdeal on 20th March, 2019. Defendant Nos.
1 to 8 in the suit were sellers on the online platform of Defendant No. 9.
Snapdeal too claims that its operations on its online market place was limited
to facilitating the buying and selling of various goods and services between
independent sellers and independent buyers. In other words, it was acting
merely as an intermediary and did not directly engage in the sale or purchase
of the products. 35. As far as Snapdeal is concerned, the refrain in its appeal is that in the
impugned judgment, the learned Single Judge has completely omitted to refer
to the contentions of Snapdeal and has made observations vis-a-vis all the
Defendants before it, without referring to the particular facts of the suit
involving Snapdeal. As far as CS (OS) 453/2018 is concerned, it was first
listed for hearing on 14th September, 2018 when an interim injunction was
passed in I.A. No. 12419/2018. LCs were also appointed by the same order.
Snapdeal contended inter alia that the LC found no goods at its premises
which supports its contention that they were never involved in the handling of
Amway products and that further, there was no evidence of any tampered
goods of Amway being sold on Snapdeal's platform. The Impugned Judgment 36. At this stage, it requires to be noticed that the impugned judgment of the FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 16 of 69 learned Single Judge was passed in seven suits, five of which, i.e. CS (OS)
410/2018, 453/2018, 480/2018, 531/2018 and 550/2018, were filed by
Amway and one each, CS (OS) 75/2019 and 91/2019, were filed by Modicare
and Oriflame respectively. 37. It also requires to be noted here that Union of India was not made a party
in any of the suits. However, when the Oriflame Suit CS (OS) 91/2019 was
first listed on 13th February, 2019, the learned Single Judge issued notice to
the learned ASG in order to elicit the stand of Union of India in respect of the
legality and validity of the DSGs, and listed the matter for the following day
i.e. 14th February, 2019 on which date an order was passed which has been
referred to hereinbefore. The impugned judgment reflects that apart from all
other counsel for the private parties, the learned ASG was also heard by the
learned Single Judge. 38. In para 142 of the impugned judgment the learned Single Judge
formulated the following four issues for determination: iv) Whether e-commerce platforms such as Amazon, Snapdeal,
 Flipkart, 1MG, and Healthkart are guilty of tortious interference
 with the contractual relationship of the Plaintiffs with their
 distributors/direct sellers? v) What is the relief to be granted?‖ 39. The conclusion of the learned Single Judge in the impugned judgment vis-
a-vis the above issues can be summarised thus: 40. The learned Single Judge further concluded that the DSGs were binding in
nature since ―they do not impinge on any fundamental rights of either the
sellers or the platforms.‖ It was concluded that if the online platforms were
permitted to violate the DSGs, the DSEs would be left with no remedies to
enforce a binding law. The DSGs having been authenticated by a Gazette
notification were binding on e-commerce platforms and sellers on such
platforms. It was held that the online platforms were aware that they were
bound to enforce the said guidelines which reflected the current public policy
and that the online platforms had ―deliberately chosen to only set up the
alleged illegality and non-binding nature of these guidelines only by way of
defence.‖ 41. In coming to the above conclusion the learned Single Judge referred to the
decisions in Bijoe Emmanuel v. State of Kerala (1986) 3 SCC 615 hereafter
('Bijoe Emmanuel'), Union of India v. Naveen Jindal (2004) 2 SCC 510,
Gulf Goans Hotels Company Limited v. Union of India (2014) 10 SCC 673,
Delhi International Airport Limited v. International Lease Finance
Corporation (2015) 8 SCC 446, New Delhi Municipal Council v. Tanvi
Trading and Credit Private Limited (2008) 8 SCC 765, Union of India v.
Moolchand Khairati Ram Trust AIR 2018 SC 5426, U. Unichoyi v. State of
Kerala AIR 1962 SC 12; Indian Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Limited v.
Punjab Drugs Manufacturers Association (1999) 6 SCC 247 and Dalmia
Cement (Bharat) Limited v. Union of India (1996) 10 SCC 104 and the
decision of this Court in Zalam Singh v. Union of India ILR (1985) 2 Del 909. FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 19 of 69 42. The learned Single Judge also distinguished the decisions in G.J.
Fernandez v. State of Mysore AIR 1967 SC 1753, Syndicate Bank v.
Ramachandran Pillai (2011) 15 SCC 398 and the decision dated 23rd April,
2019 of the Bombay High Court in Commercial Suit IP No.114/2018 ( Tips
Industries v. Wynk Music Limited ) in their applicability to the case at hand. 43. On the second question of whether the sale of the Plaintiffs' products by
the Defendants violated the Plaintiffs' trademark rights, the learned Single
Judge opened the discussion by observing in para 175 of the impugned
judgment that the Plaintiffs in each of the suits i.e Amway, Modicare and
Oriflame ―are the owners of their respective trademarks.‖ The Defendants
were found guilty of infringing the above trademarks and diluting it and
passing off as their own misrepresenting their association with Amway,
Oriflame and Modicare. It was concluded that the principles of exhaustion in
terms of Section 30 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (‗TM Act') did not exempt
the Defendants from liability thereunder and the manner of sale on the e-
commerce platforms also constituted passing off, misrepresentation and
dilution/tarnishment of the products and business of the Plaintiffs. 44. It was held by learned Single Judge that the condition imposed by the
Plaintiffs on the buyers of their products restricting post-sale alienation on an
online market place without their consent, was an enforceable condition and
that the Defendants should be restrained in terms thereof from offering any of
their products including genuine and untampered ones on their online market
places. It was held that the services provided by the online platforms
amounted to infringement under Sections 29 (6) and 29 (8) of the TM Act; that the manner of information provided for each listing on the websites of
Amazon and Snapdeal could cause confusion amongst the consumers thereby
misrepresenting an association of the online market place with the brand of
product. It was further held that the Plaintiffs had legitimate reasons to restrict
resale of the products under Section 30 (4) of the TM Act. 45. On the basis of the reports of the LCs, the learned Single Judge concluded
that there was large scale tampering of the products of the Plaintiffs; there
was a change of warranty of such products and that such products were re-
packaged and re-sealed by the online market places. Since the source of the
goods sold on the online market places were not easily determinable, they
were not lawfully acquired in terms of Section 30 (3) of the TM Act. 46. The learned Single Judge noted the contention of the Defendants that the
suits were not based on violation of trade mark rights and observed that
―While it may be true that the plaints are not structured like a traditional
trademark plaint would be, the same does not mean that the Plaintiffs do not
complain of violations of trademark rights.‖ It was further observed that: 47. In arriving at the above conclusion the learned Single Judge discussed and
distinguished the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in Kapil FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 21 of 69 Wadhwa v. Samsung Electronics Company Limited MIPR 2012 (3) 0191. 48. The learned Single Judge distinguished the cases cited by the Defendants
and discussed their inapplicability. These included the decision dated 23rd
May, 2017 in Case No. 2016-1290 (Milo & Gabby v. Amazon.com Inc.), Tre
Milano, LLC v. Amazon.com, the decision dated 24th July, 2018 in Civil
Action No.17-2738 (FLW) (LHG) (Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company
v. Amazon.com), Matrix Essential v. Emporium Drug Mart 756 F. Supp.
280 (W.D. La. 1991), Matrix Essentials v. Emporium Drug Mart 988 F.2d
587 (5th Cir., 1993), Sebastian Intern v. Long Drug Stores 53 F.3d 1073 (9 th
Cir., 1995) and the decision of the Canadian Supreme Court in Consumers
Distributing Company Limited v. Seiko Time Canada Limited (1984) 1
S.C.R. 583. 49. The learned Single Judge also relied on the decision dated 3rd July, 2019
of the US Court of Appeals in Case No. 18-1041 (Heather R. Oberdorf v.
Amazon.com Inc), the decision of the European Court of Justice decided on
23rd April, 2009 in C-59/08 (Copad SA v. Christian Dior Couture SA), the
decision dated 18th December, 2018 of the Court in Milan in G.R. No.
44211/2018 ( Landoll S.R.L v. MECS S.R.L ) and the decision dated 19th
November, 2018 in G.R. No. 38739/2018 (L'Oreal Italia SPA v. IDS
International Drugstore Italia SPA). 50. The learned Single Judge held that changes in warranty, refund/return
policies, changes in packaging, removal of codes of the products, and any
other conduct that causes damage to the reputation of the mark and is likely to FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 22 of 69 undermine the quality of the mark, would constitute ‗impairment' inasmuch
as the online platforms use the trademarks of the Plaintiffs' products in their
advertising, promotion and sale offers and in the meta-tags, so that the
product listings on the platforms are thrown up on search results. Further,
since the Defendants also provided warehousing, transport and other logistical
facilities in the absence of consent from the Plaintiffs, it would result in a
―clear infringement of the Plaintiffs' trademarks and the doctrine of
exhaustion does not come to the aid of the Defendants.‖ It was held that the
use of the Plaintiffs' marks clearly constituted ‗use' under Section 2 (2) (c) of
the TM Act, 1999. It was concluded that: 51. The learned Single Judge further held that: 52. Reference was made by learned Single Judge to the decision of the
Division Bench of this Court in Baker Hughes Limited v. Hiroo Khushalani FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 23 of 69 (1998) 74 DLT 715, the decision of the European Court of Justice in Case C-
16/03 (Peak holding AB v. Axolin-Elinor AB ) and the Commentary, Kerly's
Law of Trademarks and Trade Names by James Mellor QC, 15th Edition
2011. It was concluded by learned Single Judge that: 53. Turning to Issue (iii), the learned Single Judge concluded that the e-
commerce platforms were not merely passive players but ―in fact are massive
facilitators‖ inasmuch as they were providing warehousing, logistical support,
packaging, delivery services, payment services, collection gateways etc.
Reference was made to the FDI Press Note No. 2 of 2018 issued by the GoI in
respect of FDI in e-commerce, and its para 5.2.15.2.2 which defines e-
commerce. 54. Reference was also made by learned Single Judge to the decisions in Christian Louboutin SAS v. Nakul Bajaj 2018 (76) PTC 508 (Del) and
judgement of the Supreme Court of India in Shreya Singhal v. Union of
India (2015) 5 SCC 1, while distinguishing the decision of the Division
Bench in My Space Inc. v. Super Cassettes India Limited (2017) 236 DLT
478 (DB), the decision of the learned Single Judge of this Court in Kent RO
Systems Limited v. Amit Kotak 2017 (69) PTC 551 (Del) and the decision
dated 1st May, 2017 of the Division Bench in FAO (OS) (COMM) 95/2017 FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 24 of 69 (Kent RO Systems Private Limited v. eBay India Private Limited). 55. In conclusion, on issue (iii), the learned Single Judge held as under: 56. On the last issue, i.e. issue (iv) regarding tortious interference with
contractual relations, the learned Single Judge observed interalia that: 57. It was concluded by learned Single Judge that ―the continued sale of the
Plaintiffs' products on the e-commerce platforms, without the consent of the
Plaintiffs, results in inducement of breach of contract, and tortious
interference with contractual relationships of the Plaintiffs with their
distributors.‖ 58. In arriving at the above conclusions, the learned Single Judge referred
extensively to an Article by John Danforth titled ―Tortious Interference with
Contract: A Reassertion of Society's Interest in Commercial Stability and
Contractual Integrity‖ Columbia Law Rev. Vol. 81 No. 7, 1491 and the
Commentary titled ―Salmond & Heuston on the Law of Torts‖, R. F. V.
Heuston and R. A. Buckley, 20th Edition Universal Book Traders at page 358,
as well as the decisions in Aasia Industrial Technologies Limited v.
Ambience Space Sellers Limited (1998) 18 PTC 316 (DB) and the judgment
of the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court in Balailal Mukherjee
and Company Private Limited v. Sea Traders Private Limited (1990) SCC
Online Cal 55. 59. In the concluding portion of the impugned judgment under the title
―Conclusions and Relief‖, it was concluded that the Plaintiffs had established
a prima facie case, that the balance of convenience is in their favour and that
irreparable injury would be caused to the Plaintiffs, their businesses and all FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 26 of 69 those who depended on them and finally the consumers, if the interim relief as
prayed for was not granted. It was observed that none of the online platforms
were able to establish that the Plaintiffs' products sold thereon were ―genuine
and not tampered with or impaired.‖ They had also not been able to show how
the licences of the Plaintiffs' marks were granted to the e-commerce
platforms. 60. Some broad observations were made by the learned Single Judge
concerning all the products of the Plaintiffs, by relying on the report of the
LCs, in the following manner: 61. On the policies of the online platforms, it was observed by learned Single
Judge as under: 62. It was further observed by learned Single Judge that: 63. On whether the DSGs are considered binding law, and on how the
Plaintiffs' right to carry on business was being affected by the actions of the
Defendants, it was further reiterated by the learned Single Judge that: 64. It requires to be noticed that only some of the Defendants in the above
suits have come forward to file appeals. Amazon, which was Defendant No. 4
in CS (OS) 480/2018, Defendant No. 1 in CS (OS) 75/2019 and Defendant
No. 6 in CS (OS) 91/2019 has filed three appeals; Cloudtail, which was
Defendant No. 3 in CS (OS) 480/2018 and Defendant No. 2 in CS (OS) 91/
2019 has filed its two appeals, and Snapdeal, which was Defendant No. 9 in
CS (OS) 453/2018 has filed the 6th Appeal. The remaining Defendants in the
above seven suits have not challenged the impugned judgment of the learned
Single Judge. They have also not appeared in the present appeals wherever
they have been impleaded. 65. While admitting the appeals on 25th July, 2019 this Court permitted the
parties to file their respective written submissions and listed the interim
applications in the appeals for hearing on 17th February, 2020. Thereafter
applications for advancing of the date of hearing were filed. These
applications were allowed on 30th September, 2019 and the applications for
interim relief were listed for hearing on 9 th October, 2019. Thereafter these
appeals were heard finally on 9th and 15th October, 2019, 5th November and
14th November, 2019, 14th December, 20th December and 21st December,
2019. 66. This Court has heard the submissions of Mr. Gurukrishna Kumar, learned
Senior Counsel appearing for the Cloudtail, Mr. Saikrishna Rajgopal, learned
counsel appearing for Amazon; Mr. Rajshekar Rao learned counsel appearing
for Snapdeal; Mr. Parag Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel and Ms. Priya
Kumar, learned counsel appearing for Amway; Mr. Balbir Singh, learned
Senior Counsel appearing for the Oriflame and Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned
Senior Counsel appearing for Modicare. Prefatory observations
67.1 The Court would like to preface the discussion on the issues with brief
observations on the nature of the suits themselves. From the plaints and the
suits filed, four to be precise, it is plain that none of them was filed as a
commercial suit, since none of them was framed as a suit either for passing
off or for infringement in terms of the TM Act. 67.2 The second factor to be kept in mind is that in none of the suits was there
any prayer for a declaration that the DSGs are law that bind the Defendants
and that, as such, they are enforceable. Thirdly, there was again no prayer for
a declaration that Amazon and Snapdeal were not ―intermediaries‖ within the
meaning of Section 79 of the IT Act. These factors attain significance in light
of the fact that the learned Single Judge has returned specific findings, which
clearly run contrary to the structure and frame of the suits themselves. 67.3. Another aspect that bears noting is that the impugned judgment runs into
225 pages and returns extensive findings, without expressing any caveat that
such findings may be prima facie or tentative findings, limited for the purpose FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 30 of 69 of granting interim relief. The said findings, even on a conservative basis, can
be characterized as expressing a final opinion at an interlocutory stage. The
many issues on which findings were returned are of a nature which necessitate
evidence to be led by the parties and the matter having to go for trial to test
the veracity of the cases of the respective parties. In fact, the issues that have
been framed in the impugned judgement for the purposes of relief appear to
travel far beyond the pleadings in the suits and, in fact, at a stage when the
issues in the suits themselves are yet to be framed. 67.4 Given the nature of the plaints and the prayers made therein, it is highly
unlikely that the issues that were framed by the learned Single Judge for the
purpose of considering the grant of interim reliefs would be the issues in the
suits themselves. For instance, corresponding to the first issue whether the
DSGs are in the nature of binding law there is no prayer in the suits
themselves. It is doubtful, therefore, whether such an issue could have been
framed in the suits . Likewise, in the absence of any prayer declaring that
online platforms like Amazon, Snapdeal and Cloudtail are not
―intermediaries‖ within the meaning of the IT Act , it is unlikely that such an
issue could be framed in the suits. 67.5 There was also no question raised in relation to the constitutional validity
of the DSGs either in the plaints or in the written statements and affidavits
filed by the Appellants/Defendants in their suits and applications under Order
XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (‗ CPC '). It is,
therefore, surprising that the learned Single Judge has extensively examined
the question of the constitutional validity of the DSGs. 67.6 The learned Single Judge appears to have taken into account the
submissions of the Union of India, when it was not even a party to any of the
suits. These are suits governed by the CPC . The procedure adopted by the
learned Single Judge in requiring the learned ASG to address arguments on
behalf of the Union of India at an interlocutory stage, without it being party to
the suits themselves, was, therefore, untenable. 67.7 It would be a different matter if the plaints themselves supported the case
that the DSGs are indeed law and an officer of the Union of India was
summoned as a witness in the trial. The Court on its own requiring the Union
of India to address it on this aspect, in a civil suit, is indeed a deviation from the CPC itself, which would strictly govern the adjudication of civil suits filed
on the original side of this Court. That this Court has original jurisdiction does
not mean under that jurisdiction the Court will assume to itself the powers of
a Writ Court. The flexibility of procedure that may be available to the Court
while dealing with a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, is not,
and ought to not be adopted while dealing with civil suits filed on the original
side, which would be strictly governed by the provisions of the CPC read with
the corresponding provisions of the Delhi High Court Act and the Original
Side Rules of the Delhi High Court. 67.8 In such circumstances, the question of what value the ASG's submission
would have in determining the preliminary issue of the nature of the DSGs is
a question that ought to have been addressed, but was not, by the learned
Single Judge. The view expressed by the ASG before the learned Single FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 32 of 69 Judge on the nature of the DSGs, can, at best, said to be ‗advisory' and not
‗evidence'. 68. With these preliminary observations, the Court proceeds to examine each
of the four issues, the conclusions pertaining to which, form the basis of the
impugned judgment of the learned Single Judge. Are the DSGs law? 69. The first issue formulated by the learned Single Judge was whether the
DSGs ―are valid and binding on the Defendants, and if so, to what extent‖? It
must be noted at the outset that this issue itself has been erroneously framed.
Even going by the submissions made before the learned Single Judge, or for
that matter before this Court, the question to be addressed was whether the
DSGs were ‗law' and whether suits could have been filed by the Plaintiffs for
enforcing the DSGs? 70. It is clear from the first line of para 146 of the impugned judgment, that
the stand of the Appellants/Defendants, as noted by the learned Single Judge,
is that ―the DSGs are not law and they are merely advisory in nature‖. The
learned Single Judge notes the further submission that according to the
Defendants, the DSGs were ―merely a model framework for State
Governments and Union Territories to come out with an actual legal
mechanism to enforce the same‖ and that ―they are not binding in nature‖. It
is in the next sentence that the learned Single Judge appears to have
committed an error while noting that the Appellants/ Defendants had urged
that the DSGs ―are not law under Article 13 of the Constitution as they FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 33 of 69 impinged upon the Fundamental Rights of the platforms and the sellers of the
platforms guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution‖. 71. It has been repeatedly urged before this Court that this was not the
contention of the Defendants. In particular, it is the case of the Amazon that
they did not in fact challenge the constitutional validity of the DSGs. Their
submission was that these were mere guidelines which could not be
characterized as ‗law' and cannot, therefore, regulate the exercise of the
fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution. 72. The learned Single Judge appears to have committed an error in re-
phrasing the ―the first and foremost question‖, as ―whether any right under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution is impinged by the issuance of these
guidelines‖. What was required to be addressed first was the issue whether the
DSGs were indeed ‗law' and were the suits seeking enforcement of such law
be maintainable? 73. At this stage, it is important to examine the DSGs. A perusal of the
notification dated 26th October, 2016 issued by the Department of Consumer
Affairs reveals that an Inter-Ministerial Committee (‗IMC') was constituted
by the Government of India with representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, the Department of Legal
Affairs, the Department of Information and Technology and the Ministry of
Corporate Affairs. Besides these five ministries and departments, the
representatives of the Government of NCT of Delhi, the States of Andhra
Pradesh and Kerala were also part of the said IMC. They were to look into FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 34 of 69 ―the matters concerning the direct selling industries‖. This IMC is stated to
have held consultations with ―stakeholders‖ before formulating the ―model
guidelines for the States and the Union Territories‖ for protecting the
―legitimate rights and interests of industry and consumers‖. What was
envisaged was that ―the State Governments will set up a mechanism to
monitor/supervise the activities of direct sellers, DSEs regarding compliance
for guidelines for direct sellers‖. In other words, even in terms of this
notification, what was being notified were only ―model guidelines‖. 74. The model guidelines envisaged a DSE to submit an undertaking to the
Department of Consumer Affairs (‗DoCA) by 9th December, 2016, stating
therein that it was in compliance thereof and was to also provide the details of
its incorporation. The notification urged the State Governments and Union
Territories to take ―necessary action to implement the guidelines‖. Enclosed
with the said notification were ―model guidelines on direct selling English
and Hindi‖ and ―the Performa (sic) for declaration and undertaking‖. 75. The title of the enclosed document explains its nature: ―Advisory to State
Governments/Union Territories: Model Framework for Guidelines on Direct
Selling‖. Consequently, it is clear that the DSGs were not meant to be treated
as law themselves, much less binding law. It was only to be a model
framework and ―advisory‖ in nature. It was for the State Governments to
adopt it into law. Therefore, Clause 7 (6) of these ‗model guidelines' is also
purely advisory. 76. The learned Single Judge in the impugned judgment has noticed the FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 35 of 69 background to the formulation of the guidelines, but crucially overlooked the
fact that these were not in the form of ―executive instructions‖ at all. A
careful reading of the notification reveals that the guidelines have been issued
by the DoCA. Its power to frame such guidelines can be traced back to the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (‗CPA'). The mere fact that the FSSAI may
have written to e-commerce platforms to comply with the guidelines would
not make them law. 77. Any doubt in this regard now stands dispelled by the communication
dated 11th November, 2019 issued by the DoCA in the Ministry of Consumer
Affairs under the subject ―Rules to be notified under the Consumer Protection
Act, 2019 - Comments from the stakeholders on draft rules - Reg‖. This has
come as a result of the CPA, 2019, which was published in the official gazette
on 9th August, 2019. The CPA, 2019, itself is yet to become operational, as it
is awaiting the formulation of Rules thereunder. 78. This communication dated 11th November, 2019 notes that Rules under
various topics are required to be notified under the new Act. Eight such topics
have been notified and in Sl. No. 6 are the ―Consumer Protection (Direct
Selling) Rules, 2019‖. Stakeholders were invited to offer their views and
suggestions on the draft Rules till 2nd December, 2019. A comparison of the
text of draft Consumer Protection (Direct Selling) Rules, 2019 with the DSGs
shows that the former almost entirely replicates the latter. Rule 8 (6) of the
draft Rules, for instance, is a verbatim reproduction of Clause 7 (6) of the
DSGs. Interestingly, even the definition of the ―Act‖ under Rule 2 (1) (a) is
identical to Clause 1 (1) of the Model Direct Selling Guidelines, 2016 and is FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 36 of 69 defined to mean ―CPA‖, with only the year being different; in the DSGs it is
CPA, 1986, whereas in the draft Rules it is CPA, 2019. 79. Clearly, therefore, what was being invoked was the mechanism of
formulating Rules under an existing statute that governs the subject, viz., the
CPA. There was no occasion, therefore, to treat these draft DSGs, traceable as
they were to the CPA, as ―executive instructions‖. The learned Single Judge
appears to have missed this significant aspect of the matter. A large portion of
the impugned judgment has been devoted to discussing the case law around
―executive instructions‖ which filled up the lacuna of the statutory law on the
topic, when there was no occasion to adopt that route to find the DSGs to be
binding. 80. The learned Single Judge started off by accepting the plea of the ASG that
the DSGs were issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Articles 73 and 77 of the Constitution. Clearly, that is not what the notification stated. It
clearly mentioned these as only ‗guidelines' which were ‗advisory'. The
distinction between rules, which are made under a statute, regulations, which
also ought to be traced to a statute, and mere ‗guidelines', was lost sight of by
the learned Single Judge. 81. The Plaintiffs appear to have jumped the gun in not waiting for the law to
be formally made and enforced. It is possible that once the CPA Rules are
notified, questions would further arise as to whether such rules, and in
particular Rule 8 (6) thereof violated, as contended by the Appellants/
Defendants, Section 30 of the TM Act or Section 79 of the IT Act. At the FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 37 of 69 stage at which it was before the learned Single Judge, these questions were
moot and purely hypothetical. 82. Significantly, had the learned Single Judge addressed the issue whether
the DSGs did in fact have the character of law, there would have been no need
to go into the further issue of whether they violated any fundamental rights.
The route adopted by the learned Single Judge was to first examine the
second question, viz., whether the DSGs violated any fundamental right, and
having answered that in the negative, to conclude that they are accordingly
valid and binding ‗law'. 83. The learned Single Judge relied on the decision in Ram Jawaya Kapoor
(supra) to conclude that instances of exercise of executive power, where there
was no violation of fundamental rights, ―even if not traceable to a statute‖,
cannot be questioned. The facts that the Supreme Court was confronted with
in that case were that publishers of the text books raised a challenge to certain
executive instructions issued by the State Government. The State Government
took upon itself the task of publishing and printing text books published by
different publishers by giving a mere 5% royalty to the publishers. The action
of the State Government was not, however, traceable to any statute as such. 84. In the present case, it is not the government, but private entities like
Amway, Oriflame and Modicare, which are trying to seek enforcement of the
DSGs. In fact, they are seeking to enforce guidelines against third parties and
not against those who might be bound by the DSGs, as and when it becomes
law. Merely because the DSGs are notified in the Gazette, they do not attain FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 38 of 69 the status of ―law‖ within the meaning of Article 13 of the Constitution. The
source of the power to frame such guidelines is traceable only to the CPA.
With the CPA, 2019 itself not having been notified, these draft guidelines
could not have attained the character of ―binding Rules‖ under the CPA,
2019, or for that matter, even under the CPA, 1986. When clearly even the
draft guidelines mentioned the Act to be the CPA, there was no occasion for
the learned Single Judge to accept the plea that they could be sourced to Articles 73 or 77 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, there was no
occasion to apply the decision in Ram Jawaya Kapoor (supra). 85. The fact that the DSGs may not have been challenged in a Court of law is
neither here nor there. If they were not law in the first place, there was no
occasion for the Defendants/Appellants to challenge it. They would be right in
proceeding on the basis that as they were not law in the first place and any
challenge to such draft guidelines would have been premature. 86.1 In State of Madhya Pradesh v. Thakur Bharat Singh AIR 1967 SC
1170, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court explained that Articles 162 and 173 were concerned ―primarily with the distinction of executive power
between the Union on the one hand and the States on the other, and not with
the validity of its exercise‖. The decision of the Supreme Court in Ram
Jawaya Kapoor (supra) was explained by the Supreme Court in Thakur
Bharat Singh (supra) as under- ―...The executive action which was upheld in that case was, it is
 true, not supported by legislation, but it did not operate to the
 prejudice of any citizen. In the State of Punjab prior to 1950 the
 text-books used in recognized schools were prepared by private FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 39 of 69 publishers and they were submitted for approval of the -
 Government. In 1950 the State Government published text books
 in certain subjects, and in other subjects the State Government
 approved text-books submitted by publishers and authors. In
 1952 a notification was issued by the Government inviting only
 "authors and others" to submit text-books for approval by the
 Government. Under agreements with the authors and others the
 copyright in the text-books vested -absolutely in the State and the
 authors and others received royalty on the sale of those text-
 books. The petitioners a firm carrying on the business of
 preparing, printing, publishing and selling text books then moved
 this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution praying for writs of
 mandamus directing the Punjab Government to withdraw the
 notifications of 1950 and 1952 on the ground that they
 contravened the fundamental rights of the petitioners guarantee
 under the Constitution. It was held by this Court that the action
 of the Government did not amount to infraction of the guarantee
 under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, since no fundamental
 rights of the petitioners were violated by the notifications and the
 acts of the executive Government done in furtherance of their
 policy of nationalisation of text-books for students. It is true that
 the dispute arose before the Constitution (seventh Amendment)
 Act, 1956, amending, inter alia, Art. 298 , was enacted, and there
 was no legislation authorising the State Government to enter the
 field of business of printing, publishing and selling text-books. It
 was contended in support of the petition in Rai Sahib Ram
 Jawaya's case that without legislative authority the Government
 of the State could not enter the business of printing, publishing
 and selling text-books. The Court held that by the action of the
 Government no rights of the petitioners were infringed, since a
 mere chance or prospect of having particular customers cannot be
 said to a be right to property or to any interest or undertaking. It
 is clear that the State of Punjab had done no act which infringed a
 right of any citizen: the State had merely. entered upon a trading
 venture. By entering into competition with the citizens, it did not
 infringe their rights. Viewed in the light of these facts the
 observations relied upon do not support the contention that the
 State or its officers may in exercise of executive authority FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 40 of 69 infringe the rights of the citizens merely because the Legislature
 of the State has the power to legislate in regard to the subject on
 which the executive order is. issued.‖

86.2 Accordingly, in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Thakur Bharat Singh (supra), it was held that the order issued by the State Government of Madhya
Pradesh under Section 3 (1) (b) of the Madhya Pradesh Public Security Act,
1959, not only restricted the movements of the Respondents, but actually
required them to move to another place apart from the place of their ordinary
residence, which was beyond the purview of the statute. This was held to be
prejudicial to the Respondents and accordingly invalid. Therefore, even the
extent of executive power could be curtailed by what the statute permitted
expressly. 87. In Poonam Verma v. Delhi Development Authority (2007) 13 SCC 154,
the question was whether the action of the Central Government to confine the
scheme formulated by the Delhi Development Authority (‗DDA') for out of
turn allotment of flats only for widows of government servants who died in
harness and those who were killed by terrorists could have been validly
issued. The Supreme Court held that the Central Government could not have,
in the absence of any statutory provision directed creation of any quota and
that too after closure of the scheme. In that process, the Supreme Court held
that ―guidelines per se do not partake the character of a statute‖ and that ―such
guidelines in absence of statutory backdrop are advisory in nature‖. The Court
referred to its earlier decision in Narender Kumar Maheshwari v Union of
India (1979) 3 SCC 489, where it was held as under: 88. In G.J. Fernandez v. State of Mysore AIR 1967 SC 1753 the Supreme
Court held that the rules in the Mysore Public Works Department Code did
not partake the character of ‗law' and that Article 162 could not be invoked to
recognize the power of the State Government to frame rules. The provision
only indicated ―the scope of executive power of the State‖. It was further
explained as under: 89. The learned Single Judge distinguished the above decision in G.J.
Fernandez (supra) on the ground that the Code in question there was ―in the
nature of government regulations to regulate conduct of employees‖ and that
the said Code was ―not duly notified and gazetted‖ like the DSGs were. The
Court is of the view that the mere fact that the DSGs were notified in the
gazette would not set it apart from the Code that was being considered by the
Supreme Court in G.J. Fernandez. 90. In Syndicate Bank v. Ramchandran Pillai (2011) 15 SCC 398, the
question that arose was whether the Central Government's ―guidelines to
prevent arbitrary use of powers to evict genuine tenants from public premises
under the control of the public sector undertakings/financial institutions‖ by a
gazetted resolution dated 30th May, 2002, had the force of ―statutory rules‖.
Answering the question in negative, the Supreme Court held as under: 91. Since this Court is of the view that the learned Single Judge was in error
in overlooking the aforementioned legal position, and in holding the DSGs to
be law, the Court does not consider it necessary to examine the further
question whether the DSGs are violative of any fundamental right under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution and whether the restriction placed on the
said right by them are beyond the purview of Article 19 (6) of the
Constitution. 92. The Court, therefore, leaves it open to the Appellants/Defendants to
challenge the Direct Selling Rules under the CPA, once they are notified, as
being violative of Section 30 of the TM Act and Sections 419 and 420 of the FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 44 of 69 Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (‗SOGA'), Sections 23 and 27 of the Indian Contract
Act, 1872 (‗ICA') and the Competition Act, 2002. There is no occasion for
the Court in the present case to further examine these issues. 93. For all the aforementioned reasons, the Court sets aside the findings of the
learned Single Judge on the first issue that the DSGs are ‗law' and that, as
such, they are enforceable. Trademark issues 94. The Court now turns to the second issue, and the findings thereon, that the
sale of Amway, Oriflame and Modicare products on e-commerce platforms
amounted to infringement of trademark, passing off and misrepresentation,
etc. 95. The Court accepts the plea of the Appellants/ Defendants that a
fundamental error has been committed by the learned Single Judge in noting
in the opening line of para 175 that ―the Plaintiffs are owners of their
respective trademarks and there is no dispute regarding the ownership‖. It
must be observed at the outset, that in none of the plaints, have the Plaintiffs
asserted or even mentioned anything about trademark registration. There was
no occasion for the Plaintiffs to assert ownership of such trademarks. In fact,
there is no such pleading to that effect at all. How the learned Single Judge
could have come to such a conclusion and, that too, in a categorical manner,
in the absence of any pleadings, is a mystery. 96. As the learned Single Judge rightly notes, the suits were not suits for FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 45 of 69 infringement of trademarks, or even for that matter, passing off. Even as this
has been acknowledged in the impugned judgment, the learned Single Judge
proceeds to examine whether there has been an infringement of the
trademarks. This is entirely outside the purview of the pleadings in the suits
and such a venture in this regard ought not to have been undertaken by the
learned Single Judge. 97. In any event, according to the Appellants/Defendants, the Plaintiffs were
not the proprietors of the trademarks ‗Amway' and ‗Oriflame' respectively.
Amway has been registered in the name of Amway Corporation and Alticore
Inc., and Oriflame in the name of Oriflame Cosmetics AG, neither of which
entities are parties to the suits. The case of the Appellants/Defendants is that
once the goods have been lawfully acquired by a person by sale of the goods
in the market, the further sale of such goods in the market by that person
would not amount to infringement of the proprietor's trademark. The
contention is that Section 30 of the TM Act limits the monopoly rights of the
trademark owner and confers a benefit on traders to trade lawfully and acquire
goods. Conscious of this position, according to the Appellants/Defendants, the
Plaintiffs did not argue that the Appellants were infringing any registered
trademark. 98. As already noticed, the action brought by the Respondents/Plaintiffs in the
shape of the suits in question, was not one of trademark infringement or
passing off. 99. Under Section 19 of the SOGA, upon a contract for sale for a specific FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 46 of 69 property, the property and the goods are transferred to the buyer. The ―Code
of Ethics‖ framed by Amway itself states that once the sale takes place, the
title in the products is transferred to the buyer i.e. the ABOs, on its first sale.
Once the title passes to the ABO, no condition could be further imposed upon
the buyer. Clause 7 (6) of the DSGs imposes one such condition on the buyer
that the buyer cannot resell the product online. With such a condition not
being an enforceable law vis-a-vis the third party, even if it were to be
considered binding as such, by means of the contract between Amway and the
ABO, Amway can at best seek to proceed against the ABO for breach of such
condition. This is because there is no privity of contract between Amway, or
for that matter between Oriflame and Modicare, with the online platforms. Lifting the corporate veil 100. Arguments at some length were advanced by the Respondents herein
regarding the relationship between the Amazon, on the one hand, and
Cloudtail, on the other. The assertion by Cloudtail is that it is a wholly owned
subsidiary of M/s Prione Business Services Pvt. Ltd. (‗Prione'), which has no
relation with Amazon and that Amazon and Cloudtail are independent legal
entities. Prione is a joint venture between M/s Catamaran Ventures and
Amazon Asia Pacific and Amazon Eurasia. Cloudtail states that it does not
have any shareholding, interest or directors from Amazon or Amazon Asia
Pacific or Amazon Eurasia, controlling and managing its affairs. The board of
Cloudtail is said to comprise of three directors, two of which are nominees of
M/s Catamaran Ventures and one is the MD-CEO i.e. an employee of
Cloudtail. 101. In any event, these are matters of evidence. There could not have been a
presumption that Cloudtail and Amazon are one and the same entity and that
the obligations of the Cloudtail would bind Amazon and vice versa. There is
merit in the contention of Amazon that by permitting private entities like
Amway to restrict downstream distribution of genuine goods, by enforcing
contractual stipulations against third parties, the judgment of the learned
Single Judge recognizes a monopoly that can be exercised in perpetuity.
There is also force in the contention that this runs contrary to the legal
position explained in Kapil Wadhwa v. Samsung Electronics (supra). At this
stage, the Court would like to discuss at some length the said decision , as it
has a direct bearing on the case at hand. The decision in Kapil Wadhwa
102.1 The facts in Kapil Wadhwa (supra) are that Samsung Electronics
Company Limited (‗SECL') and Samsung India Electronics Private Limited
(‗SIEPL') were companies incorporated in Korea and India respectively.
SIEPL was the subsidiary of SECL. They were part of the Samsung group of
companies, which had 14 listed companies and 285 worldwide operations.
They were in the business of manufacturing and trading electronic goods,
including colour televisions, home appliances, washing machines, air
conditioners, computers, printers and cartridges, etc. The business was done
under the brand/corporate name, using the trademark ‗Samsung'. 102.2 In India, SECL had licensed the use of its trademark ‗Samsung' to
SIEPL under a Trademark Agreement dated 8th July, 2003, which had been
filed with the Trademark Registry for registration. The grievance of both FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 48 of 69 SECL and SIEPL was that Kapil Wadhwa and others i.e. the Appellants in
that case , were purchasing from the foreign market printers manufactured and
sold by SECL under the trademark ‗Samsung', and after importing them into
India and selling the products in the Indian market under the same trademark,
thereby infringing the registered trademark of the Respondents in India. It was
alleged that the Appellants were operating their website by meta-tagging the
same to the website of SECL and SIEPL. 102.3 The Respondents alleged that injury was being caused to the customers
in India, who were paying less for the printers in question but were misled
into believing that they were purchasing authorized Samsung products in
India sold with the permission of the Respondents, when in fact the printers
imported and sold were materially different from the ones sold in the Indian
market. Appellants highlighted that their import and sale was beneficial to the
Indian public since their aim was to sell the products at the prices less than 30
to 50% of the compatible products sold by SECL and SIEPL. 102.4 The Appellants further contended that the Respondents did not
manufacture the products in India and that they also import the products.
According to the Appellants, their act of importing the products was
authorized and the sale in the Indian market was legal inasmuch as the
Appellants sold the products ―as it is‖. 102.5 The learned Single Judge held in favour of SECL and SIEPL by
holding that the TM Act involved the national exhaustion principle. The
action brought by SECL and SIEPL before the Court was one of infringement FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 49 of 69 of trademark and not for passing off. 102.6 The Division Bench identified the issue as one of ―parallel imports/grey
market goods‖. It was held that Section 30 operated as an exception to Section 29. Under Section 30 (2) (b) of the TM Act, if a trademark was registered,
subject to any conditions of limitations, the use of that trademark in relation to
the goods to be sold or traded in any place and in relation to the goods to be
exported to any market, would not constitute an infringement. It was held that
once the goods have been lawfully acquired, if they are put into market and
further sold, there would be no infringement of the trademark irrespective of
the fact that whether such a market is an international market or a domestic
market. 102.7 The Division Bench disagreed with the conclusion reached by the
learned Single Judge, in the context of Section 29 (6) of the TM Act, that if a
trademark is registered in one country, then the goods bearing the said
registered trademark, can be lawfully acquired in that country alone. It,
therefore, further disagreed with the conclusion in para 68 (d) of the judgment
of the learned Single Judge that Section 30 of the TM Act implied that the
goods lawfully acquired must originate from ―the domestic market‖. 102.8 The Division Bench then concluded as under: 1163 (1984) Osawa & Co. v. B&H Photo. (ii) Difference in advertising and promotional efforts as held in
 the decisions reported as 70 F.Supp 2d 1057 Pepsi Co Inc v
 Reyes;589 F. Supp. 1163 (1984) Osawa & Co. v. B&H Photo. (iii) Differences in packaging as held in the decision reported as
 753 F. Supp. 1240 (1991) Ferrerro USA v. Ozak Trading. (iv) Differences in quality control, pricing and presentation as
 held in the decision reported as 982 F.2d 633 (1992) Societe Des
 Produits Nestle v. Casa Helvetia. (v) Differences in language of
 the literature provided with the product as held in the decisions
 reported as 423 F.3d 1037(2005) SKF USA v International Trade
 Commission &Ors.; 70F.Supp 2d 1057 PepsiCo Inc v Reyes;816
 F.2d 68,76(2nd Cir. 1987) Original Appalachian Artworks Inc. v.
 Granada Electronics Inc. 69. Now, as we see it, this can only happen in case where goods
 have to be imported from a country of manufacture or a country
 where they are put on the market thereof, and then imported into
 India. Only then would there be a difference in the language of
 the literature provided with the product; difference in services
 and warranties in the country from where the goods are imported
 by the seller and the country of import i.e. the manufacturer's
 warranties not being available in the country of import;
 difference in quality control, pricing and presentation as also
 differences in advertising and promotional efforts. 70. This is also an indication of India adopting the Principle of
 International Exhaustion of Rights in the field of the Trade Mark FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 52 of 69 Law. 71. We accordingly conclude that 'the market' contemplated by Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 is the international
 market i.e. that the legislation in India adopts the Principle of
 International Exhaustion of Rights.‖

102.11 Finally, the Division Bench examined whether SECL and SIEPL were
entitled to oppose further dealings by the importer of the printers to India
under Section 30 (4) of the TM Act. It was held as under: Only two products are referred to by the LC, one of which did not have the
bar code. Who removed these bar codes is still in question. If the seller who
sold the product to Amazon had itself removed it, clearly then Amazon could
not be blamed for tampering with the bar code. 107. From this one example, it is difficult to understand how the learned
Single Judge could have concluded that Amazon was tampering with the
products of Amway. This was too sweeping a conclusion to arrive at. It could
not form the basis for the denial of the principle of exhaustion by invoking
Section 30 (4) of the TM Act. As to whether the goods were in fact tampered
with, since the report of the LC does not appear to indicate that he saw such
tampering take place in his presence by Amazon, the question could only be
settled by examining evidence. 108. In fact, in the written submissions on behalf of Amway, it is conceded
that these constitute matters awaiting trial. If that is the position, then it was
not open to the learned Single Judge to conclude, and that too at the
interlocutory stage, that there was tampering of the products by Amazon. The
second LC's report, therefore, does not come to the Plaintiffs' aid in order to
assert that Amway products were being tampered with on Amazon's
premises. Amazon states that it receives goods in a packed condition and then
repacks them in Amazon's own packing, for further security and safety, to
make the packages tamper proof. This again is a matter for evidence. 109. Turning now to the third LC's report dated 15th October, 2018, Ms.
Richa Bhargava visited the premises of Black Olive (Defendant No. 2 in CS
(OS) 480/2018). The LC concluded that the premises were under the control
of Amazon on the basis that boards and hoardings of Amazon were found
there. The LC found various products bearing the mark ‗Amway' getting
packed to be dispatched to their respective buyers. This report, therefore, did
not indicate any tampering of Amway products. 110. The LC found that ―many of the products did not have the unique bar
code.‖ However, the LC's report is not helpful in determining whether it was
Amazon which had removed the unique code. It is possible that there are
products of Amway that do not have the unique code but some other marker.
These, again, are matters for evidence. Therefore, this report is also unhelpful
in determining if any tampering was done by Amazon. 111. The fourth report dated 16th October, 2018 is of Mr. B. Prashant Kumar.
He also visited the premises of Cloudtail. He noticed that it was used as a
common office for Cloudtail and its sister concern, Prione. The LC has placed
on record pictures taken at the premises where Prione refers to itself as ―a
Catamaran and Amazon venture.‖ The premises were ―almost empty, with the
desks completely clean.‖ There were no laptops, files, desktops or any other
office related products to inspect. There was no particular warehouse that
could be associated with Cloudtail in and around the premises. How this
report could then form the basis for inferring that there had been tampering of
goods by Cloudtail or Amazon is beyond imagination. 112. The broad conclusions reached by the learned Single Judge tend to
obfuscate the factual distinctions between the cases involving the different
online platforms. For instance, both in the first and the fourth reports of the
LCs, no Amway products were found on Cloudtail's premises. Similarly, the
learned Single Judge has failed to appreciate Snapdeal's submissions that
unlike Amazon, it does not even engage in large-scale ‗fulfilment' of orders,
and consequently has very few storage and transportation facilities and barely
comes into contact with the products sold on its platform. These submissions
are at least prima facie supported by the LC's Report dated 27th September,
2019 in FAO (OS) 157/2019, to which the learned Single Judge has made no
reference at all. No LC was appointed in Oriflame's suit. The facts revealed in
the LCs reports were insufficient to make any specific conclusions regarding
the impairment of the products vis-à-vis each of the present Appellants. 113. The learned Single Judge also appears to have accepted the plea of the
Plaintiffs that the Defendants engage in the inflation of the maximum retail
price (‗MRP') of their products to offer ‗fake discounts' to consumers.
Amazon's case is that it has a strict policy of removing listings without
further questions if a complaint is received claiming that the MRP of a
particular product has been ‗inflated'. In any event, according to Amazon, the
MRP displayed on the listings are ―entirely user generated‖ and it ―does not
determine or influence the MRP whatsoever.‖ 114. The learned Single Judge also did not inquire about the discounts passed
on by Amway to its distributors, which are then passed on to the consumers,
resulting in the sale of Amway products at high discounts in any case. In a FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 58 of 69 similar vein, the conclusion that the consumers have to embark on a
―Sherlockian venture‖ to trace the sellers of these products or that the sellers
on Amazon's marketplace are not identifiable has not taken into account the
sellers' details visible along with product listings on Amazon's marketplace,
which were disclosed in Amazon's additional affidavits dated 24th April,
2019. 115. Not only Amazon, but also Cloudtail and Snapdeal submit that details of
the products, such as the brand and the seller are clearly provided on their
online marketplaces. Where there are multiple sellers, the details of the offers
of all such sellers are said to be available. Such information, it is submitted, is
generated directly by the said sellers and not modified by the Defendants in
any manner. Only the buyer's information is withheld from the seller until
after the sale has concluded, a policy which is in the interest of the buyers
insofar as it prevents the misuse of the buyers' information by the sellers.
These aspects do not appear to have been considered by the learned Single
Judge. These too are matters in respect of which clearer answers would
emerge hopefully at the conclusion of the trial. 116. The Court is, therefore, unable to concur with the view expressed by the
learned Single Judge that the Defendants could not invoke the principle of
exhaustion in terms of Section 30 (3) read with Section 30 (4) of the TM Act,
or that the sale of the Plaintiffs' products on e-commerce platforms violates
their trademark rights, constitutes misrepresentation and passing off, and
results in the dilution and tarnishing of the goodwill and reputation of the
Plaintiffs' brand. These findings are outside the purview and scope of FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 59 of 69 pleadings in the suits and unsustainable in law. Are the Appellants intermediaries? 117. Turning now to the third issue as to whether Amazon, Cloudtail and
Snapdeal were in fact intermediaries within the meaning of Section 79 read
with 2 (1) (w) of the IT Act , the learned Single Judge has extensively
examined the incidental services provided by these platforms in the form of
packaging and entering into fresh warranties. This aspect has already been
discussed at length in the decision in Kapil Wadhwa v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd. (supra) wherein it was held that the mere fact that there could be a
change in the condition of the warranty of a certain product would not attract
Section 30 (4) of the TM Act, and equally would not deprive the
intermediaries from the option of invoking Section 79 of the IT Act in their
defence. 118. The learned Single Judge appears to have misinterpreted Section 79 of
the IT Act in concluding that is restricted to ‗passive' intermediaries. Section
79 of the IT Act reads as under: Explanation-For the purposes of this section, the expression
 ―third party information‖ means any information dealt with by an
 intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary.‖ 119. In terms of Section 79 of the IT Act, there does not appear to be any FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 61 of 69 distinction between passive and active intermediaries so far as the availability
of the safe harbour provisions are concerned. In terms of Section 79 , an
intermediary shall not be liable for any third-party information, data or
communication link made available or posted by it, as long as it complies
with Sections 79 (2) or (3) of the IT Act . 120. The exemption under Section 79 (1) of the IT Act from liability applies
when the intermediaries fulfil the criteria laid down in either Section 79 (2) (a) or Section 79 (2) (b) , and Section 79 (2) (c) of the IT Act. Where the
intermediary merely provides access, it has to comply with Section 79 (2) (a) ,
whereas in instances where it provides services in addition to access, it has to
comply with Section 79 (2) (b) of the IT Act. 121. In Amazon's case, as indeed in Cloudtail's and Snapdeal's, since they
provide services in addition to access, they have to show compliance with Section 79 (2) (b) of the IT Act. In other words, they have to show that they (i) do not initiate the transmission (ii) do not select the receiver of the
transmission and (iii) do not select or modify the information contained in the
transmission. The case of these Defendants is as follows. Where there is a
potential customer who is accessing the site, so long as it is he who clicks the
button, it is the customer who is initiating the transmission. Amazon,
Snapdeal or Cloudtail do not ‗select' the receiver of the transmission, which is
the buyer. They do not modify the information contained in the transmission,
such as the choice of the product, the number of units, and so forth. For
example, if a potential buyer goes to Amazon's website and selects a book
sold by a seller whose name is indicated on the site, as long as this entire FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 62 of 69 transaction is not controlled by Amazon and the choices, of which the
transaction consists, are made solely by the customer, such as, say, the
decision to purchase three copies of the book, and these choices are not
altered by Amazon, the requirements of Section 79 (2) (b) of the IT Act
would stand fulfilled. 122. Given the disputed questions of fact that emerge from the pleadings in
the suit, it is obvious that the issue of whether an entity is an intermediary or
not can be decided only after a trial. In this context, it should be noted that the
reasoning of the learned Single Judge in Christian Louboutin SAS v. Nakul
Bajaj (supra) was disapproved of by a Division Bench of this Court in its
judgment dated 4th April, 2019 in RFA (OS) (COMM) 1/2019 (M/s. Clues
Network Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. L'Oréal), wherein the Court set aside an order of
the learned Single Judge, which relied, inter alia, on Christian Louboutin
SAS v. Nakul Bajaj (supra). Indeed, the learned Single Judge appears to have
erred in distinguishing the decision in Myspace Inc. v. Super Cassettes
Industries Ltd. (supra), where the Division Bench held that Section 79 of the
IT Act is not an ―enforceable provision‖, but merely provides ―affirmative
defence‖ to entities which fulfil the criteria set forth therein. It was observed
by the DB in the said case as under: 123. Section 79 of the IT Act is a safe harbour for online market places,
limiting their liability for third party information posted on their systems. It is
to ensure that the liability for non-compliance and/or violation of law by a
third party, i.e. the seller, is not fastened on the online market place. In
holding that Amazon is in fact not an intermediary, the learned Single Judge
has obviated the need for any evidence to be led in the matter. 124. During the course of arguments before this Court, the
Respondents/Plaintiffs were not at all clear as to whether, according to them,
Amazon was in fact an intermediary or not. In any event, the alternative
arguments, claiming that Amazon is not an intermediary, appear to be riddled
with inconsistencies. If, in fact, Amazon is not an intermediary, the question
of Amazon having to comply with Section 79 (2) of the IT Act would not
arise at all. Clearly, the Respondents seem to be unsure as to what their stand
ought to be. As a result, the burden of proof has shifted unfairly onto the
Defendants to show that they have complied with the requirements of Section
79 of the IT Act, when in fact the Plaintiffs have to first show that there had
been a violation of any of their rights due to the Defendants' activities before
the ―affirmative defence‖ of Section 79 could be sought to be invoked.
Therefore, Section 79 of the IT Act has been, contrary to the judgment in Myspace Inc. v. Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. (supra), sought to be
enforced by the Plaintiffs positively, rather than be deployed as ―affirmative
defence.‖ FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 64 of 69 125. There is prima facie merit in the contention of the Appellants that the
value-added services provided by them as online market places, as listed out
by the learned Single Judge, do not dilute the safe harbour granted to them
under Section 79 of the IT Act. Section 2 (1) (w) of the IT Act does envisage
that such intermediaries could provide value-added services to third party
sellers. This interpretation is sought to be buttressed by Press Note No. 2
issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. In particular, reference is
made to para 5.2.15.2.4 (vi), which reads as under: 126. There was no occasion for the learned Single Judge to have, at the stage
of considering applications for interim injunction, returned a conclusive
finding that Amazon is ―a massive facilitator‖ and plays an ―active role in the
sales process.‖ These are too sweeping and definitive a set of findings which
have to be properly rendered at the conclusion of the trial. Here again there is
prima facie merit in Amazon's contention that merely because it packs and
ships the product does not mean that the sale is consummated by Amazon.
Amazon contends that such an interpretation runs afoul of both Section 79 of
the IT Act and the policy laid down by the Press Note No. 2, a portion of
which have been extracted hereinabove. Amazon explains that when the sale
of product is ―fulfilled by Amazon‖, all it means is that Amazon guarantees
the quality of the product by rendering logistical support services, which
include storage, packaging and delivery. These are again matters that would FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 65 of 69 have to be tested at the trial. 127. Under Section 79 (2) (c) of the IT Act, the obligation of the intermediary
is that, in terms of the Intermediary Guidelines, it publishes its policies for the
information and convenience of its users. The enforcement of such a policy is
another matter. Clause 17 of Amazon's policy prohibits sale, on its platform,
of ―unauthorised‖ products. This Clause 17 was put forth with the object of
enabling Amazon to refuse listing of a product where, for instance, it
originates from a country that does not follow international exhaustion.
Amazon seeks to point out that this does not apply to India where the
principle of international exhaustion is in fact followed. It is contended that
Clause 17 cannot be interpreted to empower Amway to seek restrictions on
the sale of its products on Amazon's online platform. 128. The Supreme Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) held, inter alia, that the
obligation of an intermediary to remove content under Section 79 (3) (b) of
the IT Act arises only if there is a Court order or a notification from a
government agency on the grounds mentioned under Article 19 (2) of the
Constitution. Amazon points out that it did not receive any such Court order
from Amway in support of its allegations. The letter of the FSSAI dated 9 th
April, 2018 was not a notification by an appropriate government agency and
did not conform to the grounds enumerated in Article 19 (2) of the
Constitution. 129. Therefore, on the third issue also, this Court is unable to concur with the
learned Single Judge that Amazon, Snapdeal and Cloudtail would have to FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 66 of 69 meet the diligence requirement, failing which the benefit of the safe harbour
provision i.e. Section 79 of the IT Act would not be available to them. Tortious interference 130. The Court turns now to the last issue, viz., whether the platforms are
guilty of tortious interference with a contractual relationship. This incidentally
is the central plank of Modicare's case. 131. In the first place, the tort of inducement to breach of contract necessitates
that there be a contract in the first place between the online platforms and the
DSEs. The mere fact that the online platforms may have knowledge of the
Code of Ethics of the DSEs, and the contractual stipulation imposed by such
DSEs on their distributors, is insufficient to lay a claim of tortious
interference. It was incumbent on the part of the Plaintiffs to demonstrate
active efforts on the part of or contracts entered into by the
Appellants/Defendants to make a viable case for tort of inducement to breach
of contract. 132. The Appellants state that the placing of the products on the Appellant's
online platforms is entirely voluntary. It is not induced by these platforms.
The services of warehousing, transportation, packing, and so on are provided
by these online platforms, not just to the products of the DSEs, but to all
products offered for sale on their platforms. They accordingly contend that the
mere provision of platforms for sale would not amount to inducement to
breach of contract. They contend that it is for the DSEs to proceed against
their respective ABOs/sellers to deal with the breach of contractual FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 67 of 69 obligations on their part. These are again contentions that can be decided
upon finally only at trial. The learned Single Judge could not, at the
interlocutory stage, have brushed these contentions aside. 133. The judgments relied upon in this regard by the learned Single Judge, the
Appellants submit, are distinguishable on facts from the present case. The sale
of products of the DSEs on the Appellants' online platforms was neither in
violation of extant laws or opposed to public policy, as in Aasia Industrial
Technologies Limited vs Ambience Space Sellers Limited (supra), nor were
there, in the present instance, specific acts intended to induce breach, such as
the persuasive telexes in Balailal Mukherjee and Company Private Limited
vs. Sea Traders Private Limited (supra). In any event, on the facts of the
present case, whether in fact any of the online platforms induced a breach of
contract between the DSE and its ABOs/sellers is at best a matter of evidence,
and not of inference. No case for interim injunction 134. Of the three elements to be considered for the grant of interim injunction,
the Plaintiffs, in the considered view of this Court, failed to establish that they
have a prima facie case particularly since the DSGs could not be considered
to be binding law. Interestingly, the ABOs/direct sellers alleged to have
committed the breach of the DSGs were not impleaded as Defendants. 135. Even on the test of balance of convenience, the learned Single Judge has
only returned such a conclusion, without actually examining whether the
grant of injunction would have an adverse impact on online marketing. What FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 68 of 69 was not considered is whether the requirement of online marketing entities to
seek prior consent of the DSEs would not deprive the consumer of exercising
the choice to buy such products on online platforms, while ensuring free flow
of trade. 136. As regards irreparable loss and injury, there was no empirical data placed
before the learned Single Judge by the Plaintiffs in support of their contention
that they had suffered huge losses. This again was a matter of evidence and
not inference. 137. Consequently, the Court is unable to concur with the learned Single
Judge that the three elements for the purposes of grant of interim injunction
have been fulfilled in the present case. Conclusion 138. For all of the aforementioned reasons, the impugned judgment of the
learned Single Judge is hereby set aside. The applications seeking interim
injunction in the suits stand dismissed. The appeals are allowed and
applications disposed of in the above terms with costs of Rs. 50,000/- in each
of the appeals, which will be paid by the respective Plaintiffs/Respondents to
the corresponding Appellants within four weeks from today. S. MURALIDHAR, J. TALWANT SINGH, J. JANUARY 31, 2020mw/rd FAO(OS) 133/2019 & connected matters Page 69 of 69