Apprehending threat to his life and liberty, the petitioner had filed this

petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for issuance of a direction to the police

authorities of UT Chandigarh to protect him as he had been threatened and

pressurized by agents of his landlady to get her house vacated. The

petitioner claimed that he was pressurized by the police by calling him daily

to the police station in false complaints. He had also obtained an order of

interim injunction from the Civil Court. As per the averments in the
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [2]

petition, on September 26, 2009, when the petitioner returned to his

tenanted house in Sector 11, Chandigarh, two luxury cars with registration

No. CH-03-9999 make Skoda and Toyoto Corolla No. HR-01-2268 were

found parked inside the premises. Eight gunda kind of persons alongwith

respondent No.8 came out and forcibly entered the house. The said persons

disclosed that they had purchased the house from the original landlady and

that he had to vacate the premises immediately. He was man-handled and

abused. The petitioner was repeatedly threatened by the subsequent

purchasers of the house on different occasions. The relevant event which has warranted the passing of the present

order is dated 24th November 2009 when the petitioner was away for his

duties, the Managing Director of Shiv Shakti Securities, Suba Singh

respondent No.9 deployed two security guards on the main entrance gate of

the house. When petitioner returned in the evening, the security guards who

were present there prevented him to enter the house by putting a big lock on

the main gate. The petitioner was told by the security guards that they have

been deployed by respondent No.9 with the strict instructions that no

friends, relatives of the petitioner would enter the house and that the gate

will be kept locked for 24 hours continuously. The security guards deputed

had been instructed by respondent No.9 not to permit the petitioner to enter

in his tenanted portion. The Security guards gave the mobile number of

respondent No.9 to the petitioner. When the petitioner talked to respondent

No.9, he was informed that the services of respondent No.9 were being used
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [3]

by one Mr.Dehal, respondent No.8 at whose instructions he had deployed

guards. He also disclosed that respondent No.8 was owner of the house

having purchased the house. The petitioner requested respondent No.9

again, to remove the guards but he lingered on the matter on one pretext or

the other. Later on, respondent No.9 flatly declined to remove the guards

and threatened the petitioner to do whatever he wanted. Rather petitioner

was threatened that in case he raised a voice, he would be taught a lesson.

Respondent No.9 the Managing Director of Shiv Shakti Securities, a private

agency of Baltana, Punjab had strictly instructed the guards not to allow any

of the family members of the petitioner to enter the house. He was detained

illegally in his house by abusing the process of law. The petitioner

approached the SSP by filing a representation dated November 27, 2009 but

no action was taken. On January 30th, 2010 at about 6.30 p.m., respondent

No.8 the subsequent purchaser came alongwith 10/12 musclemen and

entered the premises and started taking liquor in the lawn. Respondents

No.8 and 9 sent their musclemen to call the petitioner and his sister Pooja

who were alone in the building, from the first floor in the rented

accommodation. Respondents No.5 and 6 SHO and SI respectively were

called and they were asked to take the petitioner in custody. The sister of

the petitioner alongwith their counsel had gone to the police station but

respondent No.5 threatened the sister of the petitioner in presence of her

counsel either to vacate the premises or face the dire consequences. In

nutshell the grievance of the petitioner is that the petitioner had been
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [4]

harassed by the purchasers of the tenanted premises in connivance with

respondent No.9 Managing Director of private security agency i.e. Shiv

Shakti Securities, Baltana, Punjab and local police which compelled the

petitioner to approach this Court for a direction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. On notice having been issued to the respondents, a report has

been submitted by the police of Police Station Sector 11, Chandigarh which

reads as follows:- 2. Private multi-national security agencies

 have also established their branches in the country,

 which unless properly regulated, may have serious

 security implications. Unless suitable safeguards

 are devised, these developments are likely to have

 wide ranging security implications, which may not

 be in national interest. There is also a danger to

 the employees of the private security agencies

 encroaching upon the duties of the police, using

 weapons in an illegal manner and wearing

 uniforms which resemble those of the police. In

 many instances, personnel employed by these

 agencies have also been involved in criminal

 activities. 3. For all these reasons, Union Government

 has been considering to regulate the functioning of

 these private security agencies, so that they are run

 within legal parameters and are accountable to a

 regulatory mechanism. In view of above, it is

 proposed to regulate the private security agencies
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [13]

 through an Act which provides for a Controlling

 Authority to be appointed by the State

 Governments for the purpose of granting licences

 and also to make holding of licences mandatory

 for the carrying on of business of security agencies

 and other related matters." A perusal of the above said objects indicates that the legislation

while approving the concept of private security agencies and private

security guards was aware of the fact that the antecedents of private security

agencies and the persons employed as private security guards and

supervisors have to be regulated under a Controlling Authority otherwise

serious security implications may arise which might be contrary to the

interest of the society. In order to safeguard the society from the danger of

the employees of private security agencies encroaching upon the duties of

the police, use of weapons in an illegal manner and their likelihood of

indulging in criminal activities, some regulatory mechanism is required to

be formulated. The regulatory mechanism under the 2005 Act, can be

appreciated from the following relevant provisions of the Act. Section 2 of the Act deals with important definitions which are

as follows:- (b) "Controlling Authority" means the Controlling

 Authority appointed under subsection (1) of Section 3 ; (c) "licence" means a licence granted under sub-section

 (5) of Section 7 ; (d) "notification" means a notification published in the

 Official Gazette; (e) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under

 this Act; (f) "private security" means security provided by a

 person, other than a public servant, to protect or guard

 any person or property or both and includes provision of

 armoured car service; (g) "private security agency" means a person or body

 of persons other than a government agency, department

 or organisation engaged in the business of providing

 private security services including training to private

 security guards or their supervisor or providing private
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [15]

 security guards to any industrial or business undertaking

 or a company or any other person or property; (h) "private security guard" means a person providing

 private security with or without arms to another person

 or property or both and includes a supervisor; (i) "State Government", in relation to a Union territory,

 includes the Administrator of that Union territory

 appointed by the President under Article 239 of the

 Constitution." A perusal of the definition of armoured car service, under Section 2 (a) of the 2005 Act, private security guard under Section 2 (h) of

the 2005 Act and private security agency under Section 2 (g) of the 2005

Act indicates that a private security guard can be a person who provides

private security with or without arms. The private security agency can be a

person or body of persons other than a Government agency which is

engaged in the business of providing private security services. The private

security agency can provide service by deployment of armed guards

alongwith armoured car guards and such other related services which may

be notified by Central Government or as the case may be by the State

Government from time to time. It is important to notice that the Act is silent

about the manner in which the armed licence is to be obtained and

processed for the use as a arm/ weapon by a security guard appointed by

private security agency. It appears that private security can be provided
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [16]

with or without arms to any person or property or both by the private

security agency having a licence under Section 7 (5) of the 2005 Act. Section 3 deals with appointment of Controlling Authority

which reads as follows:- Section 4 of the Act debars any person or private security

agency to provide private security guard without licence. Section 4 of the

2005 Act reads as follows: - "4. Persons or Private Security Agency not to engage

 or provide private security guard without licence.--

 No person shall carry on or commence the business of

 private security agency, unless he holds a licence issued

 under this Act : "5. Eligibility for licence.--An application for issue of a

 licence under this Act shall only be considered from a

 person after due verification of his antecedents. 6. Persons not eligible for licence.--(1) A person shall

 not be considered for issue of a licence under this Act, if

 he has been-- (a) convicted of an offence in connection with

 promotion, formation or management of a company (any

 fraud or misfeasance committed by him in relation to the

 company), including an undischarged insolvent; or
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [18] (b) convicted by a competent court for an offence, the

 prescribed punishment for which is imprisonment of not

 less than two years; or (c) keeping links with any organisation or association

 which is banned under any law on account of their

 activities which pose threat to national security or public

 order or there is information about such a person

 indulging in activities which are prejudicial to national

 security or public order; or (d) dismissed or removed from government service on

 grounds of misconduct or moral turpitude. (2) A company, firm or an association of persons shall

 not be considered for issue of a licence under this Act, if,

 it is not registered in India, or having a proprietor or a

 majority shareholder, partner or director, who is not a

 citizen of India." In order to regulate and control the private security agencies, Section 7 of the Act has been incorporated to prescribe a procedure for

filing an application and the mode of granting the licence. Section 7 of the

2005 Act reads as follows:- "7. Application for grant of licence.--(1) An

 application for grant of licence to a private security
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [19]

 agency shall be made to the Controlling Authority in

 such form as may be prescribed. (2) The applicant shall submit an affidavit

 incorporating the details in relation to the provisions

 contained in Section 6 , ensure the availability of the

 training for its private security guards and supervisors

 required under sub-section (2) of Section 9 , fulfilment of

 conditions under Section 11 and of cases registered with

 police or pending in a court of law involving the

 applicant. (3) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be

 accompanied by a fee of-- (a) Rupees Five thousand if the private security agency

 is operating in one district of a State; (b) Rupees Ten thousand if the agency is operating in

 more than one but up to five districts of a State; and (c) Rupees Twenty-five thousand if it is operating in the

 whole State. (4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (1),

 the Controlling Authority may, after making such

 inquiries as it considers necessary and obtaining no

 objection certificate from the concerned police authority,

 by order in writing, either grant a licence or refuse to
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [20]

 grant the same within a period of sixty days from the

 date of receipt of application with complete particulars

 and the prescribed fee : Section 8 deals with renewal of licence. Section 9 deals with

conditions of commencement of operation and engagement of supervisors.

As per Section 9 (3) of the 2005 Act, every private security agency will have

to employ such number of supervisors as may be prescribed. Section 10 deals with the eligibility of a person to become a private security guard. CRM M-4021 of 2010 [21] Section 10 of the 2005 Act regarding eligibility of a person engaged as a

private security guard, reads as follows:- and (f) satisfies such other conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) No person who has been convicted by a competent

 court or who has been dismissed or removed on grounds

 of misconduct or moral turpitude while serving in any of

 the armed forces of the Union, State Police

 Organisations, Central or State Governments or in any
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [22]

 private security agency shall be employed or engaged as

 a private security guard or a supervisor. (3) Every private security agency may, while

 employing a person as a private security guard, give

 preference to a person who has served as a member in

 one or more of the following, namely:-- Under Section 11 of the 2005 Act, State government has been

authorized to frame rules regarding conditions on which the licence can be

granted. Section 11 of the 2005 Act which deals with conditions of licence,

reads as follows:- Section 12 of the 2005 Act requires every private security

agency to exhibit its licence or copy thereof in a conspicuous place of

business. Section 13 deals with cancellation and suspension of licence.

Wide powers have been given to the Controlling Authority to cancel any

licence on any of the grounds mentioned in Section 13 of the 2005 Act. Section 13 of the 2005 Act which empowers the Controlling Authority to

cancel the licence, reads as under:- section (1) shall be made unless the person concerned

 has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard." CRM M-4021 of 2010 [27] Section 14 of the Act provides for an appeal to a person who is

refused a licence by the Controlling Authority. Section 15 of the 2005 Act

requires a private security agency to maintain a register containing

particulars of the names and addresses of the persons managing private

security agencies and Section 16 of the 2005 Act provides authority of

inspection of licence etc. Sections 15 and 16 of the 2005 Act read as

follows:- Section 17 deals with photo identity card to every private

security guard. Certain rights and duties of private security guards of

private security agency have been enshrined in Section 18 of the 2005 Act. Section 18 reads as follows:- Section 19 of the 2005 Act gives State Government a power or

function to be delegated by notification. Section 20 of the 2005 Act

provides for punishment for contravention of certain provisions of the Act.

According to this section, any person or private security agency providing

private security guard without licence under Section 4 of the Act is liable to

be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or

with fine which may extend to twenty five thousand rupees, or with both. Section 21 of the 2005 Act provides penalty for unauthorized use of certain

uniforms. Any security guard or supervisor wearing uniform of the Army,

Air Force, Navy or any other armed forces of the Union or Police or any

dress similar thereto can be punished for a term which may extend to one

year or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both. Section 22 of the 2005 Act deals with offences by the Companies. Section

23 of the 2005 Act indemnifies the Controlling Authority or other officers in
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [30]

respect of anything done in good faith or intended to be done under the Act. Section 24 of the 2005 Act enables Central Government to frame model

rules in respect of all or any of the matters with respect to which the State

Government may make rules under the Act. Section 25 of the 2005 Act

empowers the State Government to make rules by notification for carrying

out the provisions of the Act. Section 25 of the 2005 Act reads as follows:- section (3) of Section 9 ; (c) the form of an application for grant of licence under

 sub-section (1) of Section 7 ; CRM M-4021 of 2010 [31] (d) the form in which the licence to be granted under

 sub-section (4) of Section 7 and conditions subject to

 which such licence to be granted under Section 11 ; (e) the form of an application for renewal of licence

 under sub-section (1) of Section 8 ; (f) the form under sub-section (2) of Section 14 for

 preferring an appeal; (g) particulars to be maintained in a register under sub-

 section (1) of Section 15 ; (h) the form in which photo identity card under sub-

 section (2) of Section 17 be issued; (i) any other matter which is required to be, or may be,

 prescribed. (3) Every rule made by the State Government under

 this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is

 made, before each House of the State Legislature where

 it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature

 consists of one House, before that House. (4) In respect of Union territories, every rule made to

 carry out the provisions of the Act shall be laid before

 each House of Parliament and where there exists a

 Legislative Assembly, before that Assembly." CRM M-4021 of 2010 [32]

 It has been informed by the Counsel for UT that Home

Secretary, Chandigarh Administration has notified rules dated November 7,

2006 called Chandigarh Administration Private Security Agency Rules,

2006 which are reproduced as under:- (2) They will come into force from the date of their

 publication in the Official Gazette. 2. Definitions.--In these Rules, unless the context

 otherwise requires,-- (a) "Act" means the Private Security Agencies (Regulation)

 Act, 2005 . (b) "Agency" means the Private Security Agency. (c) "Controlling Authority" means, the Controlling Authority

 so declared under the Act. (d) "Form" means, a Form appended to these Rules. (e) "Licence" means a licence granted under the Act. CRM M-4021 of 2010 [33] (f) words and expressions not defined in these regulations but

 defined in the Act, shall have the same meaning

 respectively assigned to them in the Act. 3. Verification of the antecedents of the applicants: If the applicant is a company, a firm or an association of

 persons, the application shall be accompanied by Form I

 for every proprietor or majority shareholder, partner or

 director of the company, as if they were also the applicants.

 (2) On receipt of such application the Controlling Authority

 shall make such inquiries, as it considers necessary to

 verify the contents of the application and the particulars of

 the applicant. (3) The Controlling Authority shall obtain a no objection

 certificate from the Senior Superintendent of Police, U.T.,

 Chandigarh. For this purpose it will send to him a copy of

 the application for licence and its attachments for

 verification and report. (4) The Senior Superintendent of Police, U.T., Chandigarh in

 addition to the causing of verification of antecedents of
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [34]

 every individual in whose name the antecedent form is filled

 up, shall also furnish the following information:-- 4. Verification of character and antecedents of the

 private security guard and supervisor : They will also consult the record of the concerned police

 station and other records at the Police Headquarter, before

 preparing the character and antecedents verification report.

 This report will contain the comments of the police on

 every claim of the person in character and antecedent

 Form and also a general report about his activities

 including means of livelihood in the period of verification.

 The police will specifically state if there is a criminal case

 registered against the person at any point of time or if he

 has ever been convicted of criminal offence punishable

 with imprisonment. (6) The police will specifically comment if the

 engaging or employing the person under verification by

 the Private Security Agency will pose a threat to

 National Security. (7) The Police authorities shall ensure that

 character and antecedents verification report is

 issued within ninety days of the receipt of the

 character and antecedent Form. (8) The report of the police regarding character and

 antecedents of a person will be graded as confidential. It

 will be addressed in named cover to a designated officer
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [37]

 of the Security Agency requesting for character and

 antecedents. (9) Character and antecedents verification report once

 issued will remain valid for three years. (10) On the basis of police verification and on the basis

 of their own verification, the Agency shall issue in Form

 III a character certificate and this certificate will not be

 taken back by such Agency even if the person ceases to

 be the employee of that Agency. 5. Security Training: The training shall be for a minimum period of hundred

 hours of classroom instruction and sixty hours of field

 training, spread over at least twenty working days. The

 ex-servicemen and former police personnel shall however

 be required to attend a condensed course only, of

 minimum forty hours of classroom instructions and

 sixteen hours of field training spread over at least seven

 working days. (2) The training will include the following subjects,

 namely :-- ; security of the building or apartment, personnel

 security, household security ; including identity cards, passports and smart cards ; (g) should be able to read and understand

 English alphabets and Arabic numerals as normally

 encountered in the identification documents, arms

 licence, travel documents and security inspection

 sheet ; (h) identification of improvised explosive

 devices ; driver of Armored vehicle and optional for others) ;

 (I) handling and operation of non-prohibited

 weapons and firearms (optional) ; CRM M-4021 of 2010 [39] (m) rudimentary knowledge of Indian Penal Code ,

 right to private defence, procedure for lodging first

 information report in the police station, Arms Act (only operative sections), Explosives Act (operative

 sections) ; (n) badges of rank in police and military

 forces; (o) identification of different types of arms

 in use in public and Police ; (2) The security guard will have to successfully

 undergo the training prescribed by the Controlling

 Authority. On completion of the training each

 successful trainee will be awarded a certificate in

 Form IV by the training institute or organization.

 (3) The Controlling Authority will inspect the

 functioning of training facility from time to time

 either by itself or through its own officers. Normally
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [40]

 such inspection will be conducted at least two times

 every year. (4) All the Agencies shall submit a list of successful

 trainees to the Controlling Authority in the manner

 prescribed by it. 6. Standard of physical fitness for security

 guards : face image in colour, full name of the private

 security guard, name of the Agency and the

 identification number of the individual to whom

 the photo identity card is issued. (3) The photo identity card shall clearly

 indicate the individual's position in the Agency

 and the date up to which the photo-identity card is

 valid. (4) The photo identity card shall be maintained

 up-to-date and any change in the particulars shall

 be entered therein. (5) The photo-identity card issued to the private

 security guard will be returned to the Agency

 issuing it, once the private security guard is no

 longer engaged or employed by it. (6) Any loss or theft of photo identity card will

 be immediately brought to the notice of the

 Agency that issued it. mandates its private security guards to put on

 uniform while on duty or not, every Private

 Security Agency will issue and make it obligatory

 for its security guards to put on : KRISHAN MOHAN, I.A.S.,
 Home Secretary,
 Chandigarh Administration." It is important to point out here that Section 25 (4) of the Act

requires that every rule made to carry out the provisions of the Act shall

be laid before each House of Parliament and where there exists a

Legislative Assembly, before that Assembly. It appears that the above

said statutory provision has not been complied with as no such information

was supplied by the counsel for UT. Vide order dated December 24, 2010, the State counsel was

directed to supply the following information:- Except for supplying the list of the security agencies registered,

no other effective information was supplied but the counsel for the State had

submitted that in case any illegal act is committed by a private security

guard deputed under Section 2 (h) of the Act, engaged by a private security

agency, he would be liable for punishment as provided under the Arms Act,

1959 and the Arms Rules 1962. So far as the acquisition, possession, transport of arms and

ammunition are concerned, all the matters are governed by the Arms Act,

1959 and Arms Rules, 1962. It is an admitted fact that there is no specific

provision made in the Arms Act, 1959 or Arms Rules 1962 for providing

arms licences to the private security guards engaged with the private

security agencies. Section 2 (1) (i) of the Arms Act defines prohibited arms

under the Arms Act . Licences for acquisition and possession of prohibited

bore and non-prohibited bore fire arms were issued by District Magistrate

and State Government but after 1987, the powers to issue licences for

prohibited bores arms vests in the Central Government. According to Section 3 (1) of the Arms Act, 1959 no person can acquire or possess or
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [51]

carry fire arms or ammunition unless he holds a licence issued in

accordance the provisions of the Arms Act and Rules framed thereunder. Section 3 (2) of the Arms Act permits a person to acquire or have in his

possession or carry at any time not more than three fire arms. Section 9 imposes a restriction on the persons to acquire fire arms and ammunition. Section 13 of the Arms Act provides the purposes for grant of licences for

the protection or support. Section 13 (3) (b) of the Arms Act provides that

Arms licence could be granted if the licencing authority is satisfied that

person to whom the licence is required has a good reason for obtaining the

same. Section 13 of the Arms Act dealing with grant of licences reads as

follows:- Provided that where the officer in charge of the

 nearest police station does not send his report on the

 application within the prescribed time, the licensing

 authority may, if it deem fit, make such order, after the

 expiry of the prescribed time, without further waiting for

 the report]. (3) The licensing authority shall grant- (a) a license under section 3 where the license is

 required- (i) by a citizen of India in respect of a smooth bore

 gun having a barrel of not less than twenty inches in

 length to be used for protection or sport or in respect of

 muzzle loading gun to be used for bona fide crop

 protection: Section 14 of the Arms Act deals with the power to refuse

licences by a licencing authority. A perusal of the above said provisions of the 2005 Act, Arms

Rules, 2006 and the Arms Act, 1959 indicate that there is no provision

under the 2005 Act for any criminal liability on the security agency for any

act of the private security guards by use of weapon or fire arm. The

punishment for contravention of provisions of Section 4 of the 2005 Act and

for wearing prohibited uniform is provided under Section 20 and Section

21 of the 2005 Act. A company can be punished under Section 22 of the

2005 Act. I have carefully gone through the record of the Controlling

Authority pertaining to the method adopted for granting licences to the

private security agencies and the extent of supervision exercised by the

Controlling Authority. In the absence of any statutory provision and in the
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [54]

absence of any statutory safeguard to the general public from the criminal

activities of the private security guards employed by the private security

agencies, it is clear that the Legislation in its wisdom has not been able to

achieve the objectives of providing any power to the Controlling Authority

to curtail any person from misusing armed private security guards. It is a

matter of common knowledge that a private armed security guard can be

used by rich and influential persons of the society to indulge in criminal

activities by posing a danger to the society with the presence of armed

security guards around him. In order to curtail the criminal activities and maintenance of

peaceful and fearless atmosphere in the society, the Controlling Authority

should be armed with legal authority to curb the mis-use of the powers by

anti-social elements in the name of the private security. Since the law

framed by the Legislation, on analysis appears to be wanting so far as the

objectives sought to be achieved by the Act are concerned, it is deemed

appropriate to observe here that a fool-proof and effective procedure is

required to be laid down to regulate the operation of the private security

agencies and private security guards. There are known instances of cases in

which firing incidents have been reported resulting in the murders by the

private security guards deputed in State of Punjab by use of fire arms in the

area of South Delhi. On account of absence of any specific statutory

provision to prohibit the carrying of the private security guards alongwith

fire arms from one State to another such instances appear to have happened. CRM M-4021 of 2010 [55]

 Present case is also a glaring example where the two private

security guards have interfered in the life and liberty of a tenant in

Chandigarh, at the instance of a power of attorney holder of a landlady.

They have been able to harass a tenant, to such an extent that he had to

approach High Court for grant of protection. He was terrorized to such an

extent that he did not even come forward to pursue his petition for

protection. It is glaring example of a case where the private security guards

were deputed by the security agency of the State of Punjab. Security guards

were deployed under the title of a private security agency in area of UT

Chandigarh. The police officials employed in the State might not be

empowered to exercise their authority in the States but private security

guards, in the present case have been able to indulge in criminal activity of

intimidation. Feeling disturbed with the said lapses in the security system,

need to analyze the regulatory framework under the relevant provisions of

law was felt to prevent the armed security guards from indulging in illegal

activities. Doctrine of separation is the part of basic structure of the

Constitution and this Court does not have legislative power to frame any

statute law or rules but the circumstances of the present case warrant that at

least a direction should be given to the UT Administration to follow such a

procedure which is in consonance with the objectives of the 2005 Act so

that a person availing the services of private security agency, private

security guards or supervisors is not able to commit illegal acts in the garb
 CRM M-4021 of 2010 [56]

of the provisions of the law. In order to prevent the abuse of the process of

the law and the lacunae in the 2005 Act, the Arms Act, 1959 and the Arms

Rules, 1962, the following steps are required to be implemented till the time

some legislation is framed under Section 25 (4) of the Act:- The private security guards engaged by Private

 Security Agency will be required to submit

 application to Licensing Authority for keeping

 weapons on retainer basis. In this manner, the

 chances of fire weapons getting into the wrong

 hands will be reduced. Provision could be made

 for holding both Private Security Agency as well

 as the security guard liable for misuse of fire arm

 or misuse of security guard to commit breach of

 peace; xii) Controlling Authority/ police should monitor the

 ammunition with the licence; xiii) Private Security Agency seeking arms licence

 should provide proof of having received training

 in fire arms by the guards who is supposed to carry

 fire arm; xiv) The list of armed security guards maintained by

 one Controlling Authority should be circulated to

 the Controlling Authorities of other States

 alongwith the photographs in order to control the

 misuse of armed security guards by a person hiring

 them from an agency; armed security guards retained by them should be

 verified every year in the month of April by the

 Controlling Authority and the SSP; xvi) Complaints regarding misuse of a private security

 guard by any person will be looked into by the

 Controlling Authority and an annual report of such

 complaints and actions taken will be maintained.

 xvii) Offences under 2005 Act should be made

 cognizable after adopting due process of law."

 In addition to the above, the Controlling Authority in

consultation with SP (Security) and Senior Superintendent of Police shall

make endeavour to formulate additional guidelines/ rules to ensure that the

objectives of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005 are

achieved and the public peace and rights of common citizens are not

prejudiced. A direction is issued that necessary steps will be taken in view

of the above said discussion by the UT Administration within six months

after the receipt of certified copy of this order. The petition is disposed of

accordingly.