SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A sort of a moral dilemma of a college student
DATE: 2022-02-13
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/srml2e/a_sort_of_a_moral_dilemma_of_a_college_student/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is going to be a rather long one folks.....

I am in Engg. College rn (1st semester) and well all the kids in class decided to form a whatsapp group and also a shared folder on google drive (our college uses G-suite so its actually on the college's g-drive storage, but the link has been shared only amongst students of our class \~68 kids)

A bit of background : I chose my major as Electronics Engineering and from what I've gathered by talking to the kids in the class online through IM Platforms (since college hasn't begun in in person classes yet) is that a vast majority of them are not actually interested in Electronics Engineering (I knew this already, since I know an average Indian kids mindset i.e they drool for CSE or to get into programming heavy jobs and choose college just for the brand name ; but the same was not true in my case, I chose it for the major I wanted to study). And so far only mid-semester tests/exams have been held and that too with 100% collaboration (euphemism for cheating) and I too had taken benefit of the collaboration (I hate chemistry, first year subject :( )

So about the drive thing : The kids have created a drive to share notes and other study materials and stuff but so far no one has willingly done so. I mean, kinda, one guy was sorta peer-pressured into sharing his chemistry notes into the drive just before the tests. But other than that, they have shared notes for only like 1-2 subjects and that too not up to date.

so....I was thinking of sharing my own study notes of mathematics (so far we've been taught some single variable calculus and differential equations) but the thing is....not everyone gets the way of teaching of a teacher i.e. I don't understand things properly when the college professor teaches so my notes are actually from like MIT OCW and other open-course ware content.

Now, I don't wanna sound patronizing or anything, but these guys seem to have never heard of MIT OCW. So I dunno whether I should share my notes, effectively to the whole class (i.e. in the drive) or not ?

like me mum, always as a kid, used to tell me not to do these kinda things in school. But like the shared notes for some subjects like chemistry and Basic Electrical Engineering have actually helped me. so idk, whether I should share my notes or not ? There is the part of me which is greedy and selfish and doesn't want to, and then there is other part of me, which kinda wants to and thinks it will be good for collaboration ?

And like the college syllabus doesn't exactly match the syllabus of the OCW stuff I study from (rn I am studying DEs from MIT OCW's 18.03SC btw)