1. This writ petition is filed by one Sh. S. Raju Aiyer

challenging the findings of the enquiry committee dated 19.2.2010, order

of the disciplinary authority dated 29.7.2010 and of the appeals

committee dated 29.11.2010, all of which have found the petitioner guilty

of sexual harassment of the respondent No.5 and have consequently

imposed and approved the penalty against the petitioner of compulsory

retirement without any reduction in financial benefits. 2. Before I proceed to the facts of the case, it is necessary to WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 1 of 14 state that this Court while hearing the writ petition under Article 226 of

the Constitution of India, and which challenges the orders passed in the

departmental proceedings, does not sit as an appellate Court to re-apprise

the findings of facts and conclusions arrived at by the departmental

authority. This Court is entitled to interfere with the orders passed in the

departmental proceedings only if the said orders are wholly perverse or

violative of the law/rules of the organization or in violation of the

principles of natural justice. 3. I also state at the outset that, though, in certain places, I will

refer to the facts with respect to the issue of sexual harassment, however,

certain explicit details which are contained in the e-mails etc are not

being reproduced by me in this judgment and for the said purpose the

report of the enquiry committee dated 19.2.2010 can be referred to. 4. The petitioner was enquired into by the GSCASH committee

of the respondent No.1 (short for Gender Sensitization Committee

Against Sexual Harassment). Specific rules and procedures have been

framed by the respondent No.1-University with respect to proceedings

which are to be held by GSCASH. The charges against the petitioner

were on the basis of the complaint filed by the respondent No.5 and the

substance of which complaint is as under:- 5. On the basis of aforesaid, the following charges were served

upon the petitioner:- 6. In the enquiry proceedings, the evidence was led on behalf

of the complainant/respondent No.5 of as many as eight witnesses.

Admittedly, these witnesses were not cross-examined by the petitioner in

spite of repeated opportunities granted. Once there is no cross-

examination, there cannot be any reason why the depositions are not to be WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 3 of 14 accepted. Petitioner also led no evidence before the enquiry committee

alleging that since the two e-mails dated 11.4.2008 and 12.4.2008 were

not supplied to the petitioner/charged official therefore he will not

participate in proceedings. It may be noted that, and as contained in the

detailed report of the enquiry committee, there was no question of

supplying of these two e-mails inasmuch as the admitted position on

record was that two e-mails were destroyed by the respondent No.5

considering them to be spam. Efforts were made by the enquiry

committee, as also by the complainant, to get the factual contents of the

e-mails dated 11.4.2008 and 12.4.2008 by requesting the cyber cell of the

police department, however, these e-mails could not be provided by the

police department. It is further to be noted that the contents of the e-

mails were however got proved by depositions of witnesses, as also some

documentary evidence which has been filed before the enquiry

committee. 7. The following important conclusion emerge from the

findings and conclusions of the enquiry committee and which order of the

enquiry committee has been upheld by the appeals committee. 8. As per the detailed evidence which was led by the

respondent No.5 before the enquiry committee, and the other evidences

and record which became available to the enquiry committee, the enquiry

committee has given the following findings and recommendations: Therefore, in view of the above findings, the Committee
 recommends that the Defendant be imposed the penalty of
 Compulsory Retirement in view of his conduct and verification
 of the charges against him, Restraint order violations, non-
 cooperation with the Enquiry Committee as also threats and
 intimidation to the Committee members and the GSCASH staff
 and the violation of the Office Memo issued to him by the JNU
 administration. I agree with Compulsory Retirement but with No loss of
 any financial benefit
 Sd/- J.P. Maurya
 Annexures: (Ms. Savita Singh, Advocate) (Prof. Sonajharia Minz)
 Sd/- Sd/- (Dr. K.D. Usha) (Mr. H.M.K. Moodgal) (Mr. J.P. Maurya)" 9. The aforesaid shows that the enquiry committee has arrived

at correct findings and given the correct recommendations. Besides the

fact that legally I cannot go into details of the findings unless they are

perverse, even if I was sitting as an Appellate Court or the enquiry

committee itself, I find that both the enquiry committee and the appeals

committee has after detailed analysis and compelling reasons found the

petitioner guilty of sexual harassment of the respondent No.5. In no WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 8 of 14 manner, the exhaustive and analytical findings of the enquiry committee

can at all be interfered by this Court. 10. I may state that the disciplinary authority has accepted in

toto the enquiry committee‟s report by the order dated 29.7.2010 and the

appeals committee has also thereafter passed a detailed order dated

29.11.2010 accepting the findings of the enquiry committee and the order

of the disciplinary authority. The following portion of the report of the

appeals committee is relevant and the same reads as under:- Alongwith the rules reliance has also been placed upon by

the petitioner to Rule IX of GSCASH which deals with penalties stating

that only the University Authorities can take the action against the

petitioner. 14. The first argument on behalf of the petitioner is

misconceived for the reason that University functionaries as per the Rule

III (xix) itself includes the Registrar. Therefore, I fail to understand as to

how the Registrar could not be the disciplinary authority. Merely because

it is written that Registrar will exercise his administrative responsibilities

cannot mean that the Registrar will not be a University functionary and WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 12 of 14 which University functionary can undoubtedly pass an order imposing

penalty against the academic and non-academic staff of the respondent

No.1/University. Rule IX dealing with penalties specifically provides

that University Authorities can impose the necessary punishment and

University Authorities will definitely include the Registrar as per Rule III

(xix) reproduced above. 15. The second argument raised on behalf of the petitioner of the

action against the petitioner being bad in law on account of the Executive

Council having incorrectly arrived at a decision, the said argument is an

argument wholly without any foundation inasmuch as Executive Council

of the respondent No.1/University is neither a disciplinary authority nor

the appellate authority. The decisions imposing penalty are taken by the

disciplinary authority accepting the report of the enquiry committee and

by the appeals committee accepting the order of the disciplinary

authority. These orders are only put up to the Executive Council.

Putting up of the findings, conclusions and recommendations to the

Executive Council in terms of Rule X (3) dealing with provisions for

appeal, would not in any manner mean that Executive Council has to in

fact approve the decisions of disciplinary authority and the appeals

committee or give its own findings and reasons for accepting the reports

of the disciplinary authority and the appeals committee. All that Rule X WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 13 of 14 (3) requires is that appeals committee shall report to the Executive

Council of the respondent No.1/University. Mere reporting will not mean

that final authority for passing penalty order will be the Executive

Council of the respondent No.1/University. 16. In view of the above, I do not find any merit in the petition,

which is accordingly dismissed, leaving the parties to bear their own

costs. VALMIKI J. MEHTA, J
MARCH 13, 2013
Ne/ak WP(C) No.2541/2011 Page 14 of 14