This Criminal petition is filed under Section 439(2) Cr.P.C
by the State against the accused No.33 (in crime No.36 of 2014 of Dhone
Town Police Station) seeking to cancel the bail granted to him in
Crl.P.No.5492 of 2014 by this Court on 15.05.2014. The crime registered
for the offences punishable under Sections 379 , 120-B IPC, Section
20(1)(3) , 10 , 29 , (1)(2)(b) of Indian Forest Act and Rule3 of Red Sandal
Wood Possession and Transit Rules and Sections 27 , 29 , 31 and 51 of Wild 
Life Protection Act against 16 out of 35 accused. 2) Thus, from the above, leave about other accused, the main
accusation against the respondent-K.Gangi Reddy that he was arrested 
on 05.04.2014 and seized 14 red sandal logs worth Rs.7.00 lakhs in
pursuance of his confession and the respondent along with some others
were smuggling the red sandal load by conspiring each other from the
forest, Tirupathi and the same was being transported to Dubai, Mumbai
and other areas and earning the money illegally by having links with
international smuggler Shaul Bai and the respondent has been indulging
in red sandal smuggling by directly having links with Chennai based
international smuggler Shaul Bai who is now said to be at Dubai and
earned crores of rupees, that the respondent herein recently visited
Dubai, for which it is suspected that this respondent invested his illegal
money in his construction company by name Sai Balaji, HR mineral 
factories and also purchased valuable assets in Tirupathi, Hyderabad
etc., 3) The accused moved for regular bail in Crl.P.No.5492 of
2014 and this Court (another bench) granted bail to the respondent
herein on 15.05.2014 and it is stated by the petitioner that after
obtaining bail he absconded from India and left for Behrain, that there is
a large scope and he may pave the way for other accused to abscond 
from the State of Andhra Pradesh or even from India to flee from
justice, that by staying outside he may hatch the plans of conspiracy to
smuggle more red sanders by illegal means to cause ecological
imbalance for personal gains. It is also made a mention before this
Court that the respondent involved in inter-continental smuggling of red
sandals by conspiring with smugglers did not reveal the truth and correct
facts and he did not disclose the details pertaining to passport also
concealed the facts with an intention to prevent the investigating
agency from taking further steps so as to escape from the Indian borders
on the basis of passport without giving any scope for impounding. 4) The respondent involved in two more crimes viz., Crime
No.73 of 2013 of Pullampet police Station, Kadapa District registered for
the offences punishable under Sections 379 I.P.C and Section 20(1)(c)(2) of A.P. Forest Act and Crime No.254 of 2014 of Tirupathi East Police
Station, Chittoor District registered for the offences punishable under Sections 177 , 420 I.P.C and Section 12(1)(b) of Indian Passport Act, 1967. 5) In this application for cancellation of bail granted to him in
Crl.P.No.5492 of 2014, dated 15.05.2014 having been admitted, notice
ordered to the respondent/A-33 K.Gangi Reddy, the said notice was
received by his wife Smt.K.Malavika on 30.06.2014. It is on 07.07.2014
this application came for hearing, notice served on accused/respondent
on his wife being the inmate and family member. One Advocate Sri
S.Rama Murthy Reddy appeared before the Court and claiming as 
advocate for wife of A-33 and represents on her behalf and bring the
notice of factum of receiving notice by her. However to intimate to her
husband who is the respondent/A-33 herein, his whereabouts are not
known even to her. However, in saying there are no grounds for
cancellation of bail sought for to her husband whereabouts not intimated
her to oppose. It is not even the claim by the advocate that at the
instructions of the wife of the respondent/accused, he is appearing as
advocate for accused to give any audience of hearing but for to take for
deciding on merits from notice as required to be served at his residence
with permanent address that is also given by him in his bail application
where his wife received, he abstained even from said service suffice to
come and oppose the bail cancellation petition. It is there from the
record of the learned Magistrate Court where the accused was released
pursuant to order of this Court, by submission of bonds on the date of
hearing in the crime before Court for appearance fixed if any, pending
investigation, if any dispensed with and as to the stage of the case and
any earlier bail application filed by the accused before that Court called
for and posted from 07.07.2014 to 09.07.2014. Again on 09.07.2014 said
Advocate Sri Rama Murthy Reddy also appeared and reiterated the facts 
supra. It is thereby taken the said argument on her behalf for all
purposes rather than saying this Court constrained to take it as heard
the accused for his abstaining from attending to the hearing to decide on
merits and heard the learned Public Prosecutor at length and perused
the material on record including the record received from the learned
Magistrate. 6. Now the points for consideration are : 7. The learned Public Prosecutor in support of his submissions,
mainly placed reliance upon two expressions of the Apex Court viz, in
Kalyanchandrasarkar Vs Rajeshranjan @ Pappu Yadav and State 
through C.B.I V. Amarmani Tripathy . In Amarmani Tripathy supra it
was observed at para-4 in support of the submissions of the Additional
Solicitor General from the material on record before the Court showing
the factual position at page-684 of High Court judgment that i) That the murder of pregnant Madhumita, a heinous crime --------- ---------- ii) That Amarmani was interfering with investigation----------------- iii) That after release on bail in pursuance to the order of the High
Court, Amarmani was attempting to threaten/coerce/buy over 
witnesses. iv) That Madhumani had already absconded earlier. Only the
rejection of bail application of her husband on that ground made
her to surrender. There is every likelihood of her again fleeing, if
she continuous to be on bail. Further, if Amarmani alone is denied
bail, the threatening of witnesses will be taken over by Madhumani. 8) the object underlying the cancellation of bail is to protect
the fair trial and secure justice being done to the society by
preventing the accused who is set at liberty by the bail order from
tampering with the evidence in the heinous crime. . . . It hardly
requires to be stated that once a person is released on bail in
serious criminal cases where the punishment is quite stringent and
deterrent, the accused in order to get away from the clutches of
the same indulge in various activities like tampering with the
prosecution witnesses, threatening the family members of the
deceased victim and also create problems of law and order
situation. 14) We are conscious of the fact that evidence in this case has
yet not been led in the Court. Whereever we have referred to the
word evidence in this order the same may be read as material
collected by the prosecution. Reference to the material collected
and the findings recorded herein are for the purposes of these
appeals only. This may not be taken as an expression of opinion.
The Court would be at liberty to decide the matter in the light of
evidence which shall come on record after it is led de hors any
finding recorded in this order. For the reasons stated above, the orders dated 29th April, 2004 and
8th July, 2004 passed by the High Court are set aside. The bail
bonds of the respondents in each of these cases are cancelled,
respondents are directed to surrender forthwith and in case they
fail to do so, the State should take effective steps to take the
respondents in custody. 7. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar (supra) paras 18 to 20 it was held
that It is trite law that personal liberty cannot be taken away except in
accordance with the procedure established by law. Personal liberty is a
constitutional guarantee. However, Article 21 which guarantees the
above right also contemplates deprivation of personal liberty by
procedure established by law. Under the criminal laws of this country, a
person accused of offences which are non bailable is liable to be
detained in custody during the pendency of trial unless he is enlarged on
bail in accordance with law. Such detention cannot be questioned as
being violative of Article 21 since the same is authorised by law. But
even persons accused of non bailable offences are entitled for bail if the
court concerned comes to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed
to establish a prima facie case against him and / or if the court is
satisfied for reasons to be recorded that in spite of the existence of
prima facie case there is a need to release such persons on bail where
fact situations require it to do so. In that process a person whose
application for enlargement on bail is once rejected is not precluded
from filing a subsequent application -for grant of bail if there is a change
in the fact situation. In such cases if the circumstances then prevailing
requires that such persons to be released on bail, in spite of his earlier
applications being rejected, the courts can do so. In our humble
opinion, in the case of Jayendra Saraswathi (supra), this Court only
distinguished the facts of that case from the facts of the present case in
hand and the question of overruling a judgment on facts does not arise
unless, of course, the court is sitting in appeal over the judgment sought
to be distinguished. This Court in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar (supra)
decided the said case on the facts of that case only, so the question of
the said case being overruled in another case does not arise. It is clear
from the perusal of Jayendra Saraswathi's case as well as Kalyan
Chandra Sarkar (supra) that both the cases have been decided by this
Court on their individual facts only. 8. While deciding the cases on facts, more so in criminal cases
the court should bear in mind that each case must rest on its own facts
and the similarity of facts in one case cannot be used to bear in mind
the conclusion of fact in another case (See: Pandurang and Anr. Vs.
State of Hyderabad . It is also a well established principle that while
considering the ratio laid down in one case, the court will have to bear
in mind that every judgement must be read as applicable to the
particular facts proved or assumed to be true. Since the generality of
expressions which may be found therein are not intended to be
expositions of the whole of the law, but are governed and qualified by
the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be
found. A case is only an authority for what it actually decides, and not
what logically follows from it. 9. In fact the term BAIL has not been defined either in the old
or in the new Cr.P.C . but for relying on the dictionary meaning in several
decisions saying to give or delivery to mean to accept security for a
prisoners or arrestees appearance for delivering [releasing] him to his
liberty from custody on arrest. The concept of pre-arrest bail is to say
earlier unknown. Thus, bail is the transference of substitution of custody
for the conditions of sufficiency and suitably of the security and for
attendance wherever just for releasing from custody, if in custody and
otherwise on taking to custody from appearance, production or brought
before the Court - depending on the contingency and need less to say
with in the judicial discretion and with in the parameters of law on its
own merits, by balancing the propensity of the crime and its impact on
larger interest of society vis-a-vis personnel liberty. 10. As per the Apex Courts Judgment in Sunil F.Shaw Vs.- 
Union of India the meaning of bail even as per Cr.P.C . is to release the
accused from internment though Court, would still retain constructive
control over him through the sureties through the conditions of the bond
given by the accused and sureties. 11. As per Halsburys Laws of England, the effect of granting
bail is not to set the accused at liberty but to release him from the
custody of the law and to entrust him to the custody of his sureties who
are bound to produce him in the Court of Law for his appearance during
enquiry and trial at specific times and places. The sureties may seize
their principal at any time by handing him over to Custody of law to
discharge them. Even in case accused was released on his own bond, 
such constructive control could still be exercised though the conditions
of the bond secured from him. 12. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs State of 
Maharashtra-AIR 2011 SC312=2011(1)SCC694 it was held that 3. The society has a vital interest in grant or refusal of bail
because every criminal offence is the offence against the State.
The order granting or refusing bail must reflect perfect balance
between the conflicting interests, namely, sanctity of individual
liberty and the interest of the society. The law of bails dovetails
two conflicting interests namely, on the one hand, the
requirements of shielding the society from the hazards of those
committing crimes and potentiality of repeating the same crime
while on bail and on the other hand absolute adherence of the
fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence regarding
presumption of innocence of an accused until he is found guilty and
the sanctity of individual liberty. Just as the Liberty is precious to an individual, so is the society's
interest in maintenance of peace, law and order. Both are equally
important. 103. It is a settled legal position that the court which grants the
bail also has the power to cancel it. The discretion of grant or
cancellation of bail can be exercised either at the instance of the
accused, the public prosecutor or the complainant on finding new
material or circumstances at any point of time. 104. The intention of the legislature is quite clear that the power
of grant or refusal of bail is entirely discretionary. The
Constitution Bench in Sibbia's case (supra) has clearly stated that
grant and refusal is discretionary and it should depend on the
facts and circumstances of each case. The Constitution Bench in
the said case has aptly observed that we must respect the wisdom
of the Legislature entrusting this power to the superior courts
namely, the High Court and the Court of Session. 105. The court which grants the bail has the right to cancel the bail
according to the provisions of the General Clauses Act but ordinarily
after hearing the public prosecutor when the bail order is confirmed
then the benefit of the grant of the bail should continue till the end
of the trial of that case. 13. In Kukkadapu Bala Krishna V. State of A.P this Court
held by relying upon the earlier expressions of the Apex Court in Subhendu Mishra V. Subrat Kaur Mishra and Dolat Ram V. State of 
Haryana that cancellation of bail can be justified only when there are
supervening circumstances holding that generally speaking, the grounds
for cancellation of bail, broadly (illustrative and not exhaustive) are: 14. In Rizwan Akbar Hussain Sayyed V. mehmood Hussain it 
was held that when no condition imposed in order of bail and when no
specific observation in impugned order as to tampering with evidence,
bail should not be cancelled in a routine manner and where it appears to
the superior court that the Court granting bail acted on irrelevant
materials or there was non-application of mind or where Court does not
take note of any statutory bar to grant of bail, order for cancellation of
bail can be made. These circumstances are illustrative and not
exhaustive and the Court while considering the application for
cancellation of bail has to take note of all relevant aspects. 15. From the above propositions, abscondence is also one of
the main grounds for cancellation of bail besides interference with
witnesses non-cooperating with investigation and out of availability to
face trial and committing of any similar crime etc., being the
intervening circumstances after grant of bail. 16. It is contextually necessary to mention with reference to
the propositions supra that this respondent/A-33 of this crime
No.36/2014 moved initially an application for regular bail having been in
judicial custody since 05.04.2014 before the learned Judicial Magistrate
of the First Class, Dhone on 07.04.2013 under Section 437 Cr.P.C stating
that he is no way connected with the alleged offence that is foisted
against him and he is having movable and immovable properties and
assure to appear before the Court for every adjournment and ready to
produce suitable sureties to grant bail. The same was ended in dismissal
by order of the learned Magistrate dated 21.04.2014 in Crl.M.P.No.1690
of 2014 which speak prima facie accusation against the petitioner/A-33
also among the 35 accused and the investigation not completed and he 
again moved another bail application before the selfsame Court in
Crl.M.P.No.1891 of 2014 dated 23.04.2014 to say within two days after
dismissal of the earlier bail application stating that even he was given to
police custody for one day by the learned Magistrates order, his brother
is contesting as M.L.A of Rajampet and his presence is necessary for the
allegations and investigation is completed though it was observed as
pending in dismissal of the bail application two days before. A perusal
of the said application show no worth changes for his filing the second
bail application and the same was also ended in dismissal saying the
property worth Rs.1.00 crore of red sandal seized and he is the prime
accused of the arrest crime and from the propensity and gravity of the
crime against him is not entitled to the concession of bail. It is
subsequently he moved the application for regular bail before this High
Court in Crl.p.No.5492 of 2014 saying he is in judicial custody since
27.03.2014 in this crime No.36/2014 and this Court (another bench) vide
order dated 15.05.2014 (referred supra) observed that the main
contention of the petitioner-accused is that the basis of his implication
is the confession allegedly made by him and there is no evidence on
record directly pointing out his guilt for the above said offence and
prayed to enlarge on bail that was even opposed by the public
prosecutor of possibility of committing further crimes by accused, from
perusal of material there is no connection of the petitioner with the
crime, already A-5 to A-7, A-4, A-10 to A-13, A-3 and A-14 and also A-17
by respective orders from January, 2014 to March, 2014 enlarged on bail
by the orders of learned Magistrate and having found no prima facie
material directly connecting the petitioner-accused to the offences since
others already enlarged on bail applying the principle of parity as laid
down by one of the Apex Courts expression in Izharul Haq Abdul Hamid
Shaikh V. State of Gujarat he can be enlarged on bail by allowed the
application for his executing personal bond of Rs.20,000/- with two
sureties for likesum each to the satisfaction of the Judicial Magistrate of
the First Class, Dhone as laid down in the above referred expressions of
the Apex Court, the Court must necessary impose conditions and the 
conditions include as held by the Apex Court in Siddharam Satlingappa
Mhetre (supra). In fact the Apex Court in the expression in Amarmani
Tripathy (supra) categorically laid down that the confession of co-
accused can also be a basis for consideration in bail application for
holding prima facie accusation against the accused for negating bail in
rejecting the contention contra. 17. It is apart from the concession of bail allowed in favour of
the respondent/A-33 herein, leave about another crime pending against
him, the contention of the prosecution is he jumped the bail by leaving
the country without even permission of the Court. In fact in this regard
as per Section 6(2)(f) of the Indian Passports Act, the accused of a
criminal case for the crime pending can be refused the passport for
leaving the country during its pendency before the Criminal Court in
India. Even the Central Government to facilitate such accused issued
notification by Ministry of External Affairs dated 25.08.1993 in GSR 570E
as per the powers under Section 22 of the Passport Act and in super
session of earlier notification dated 14.04.1976 in the public interest to
exempt citizens of India against whom proceedings in respect of an
offence alleged to have been committed pending before a Criminal
Court in India, who produce orders from the Court concern permitting
them to depart from India from the operation of the provisions of clause (f) of Subsection (2) of Section 6 of the Indian Passports Act subject to
the conditions. It is important to note that the record of the learned
Magistrate called for by this Court for purpose of perusal reflected the
two bail orders dismissed and the charge sheet filed and as per the order
of this Court (another bench) which granted bail, solvency when
submitted, the bonds accepted and enlarged on bail and there is nothing
on record showing the respondent/A-33 applied as per Section 6(2)(f) of
the Passport Act for any permission to leave the country as required by
the notification supra that is mandatory. In the absence of which it is a
clear indication of his guilty mind in getting the passport by suppressing
the factum of the criminal case or otherwise get over the legal bar by
some means for which there is nothing more to discuss for no more
material for he abused the concession of bail and jumped the bail by
leaving the country irrespective of there is no condition not to leave the
country for the bar to leave the country which he sprouted. As per the
contention of the learned Public Prosecutor, out of the three crimes
including this pending against the above accused supra, the Crime
No.254/2013 is under Section 12(1)(b) of the Passport Act for giving false
information to the passport authority by playing fraud in obtaining
passport to flee away from the country and he has given different date
of births one for the pan card and other for the passport to facilitate his
fleeing away and it further discloses that so far Rs.14.00 crores of red
sandal was smuggled by this A-33 and 113 lorries were used for the
purpose of illegal transport of red sandal as per the investigation. 18. Taking consideration of all these facts and in particular
from what is discussed supra of the accused intentionally abused the
concession of bail is not entitled to continue on the said concession
thereby larger interests of the society requires cancellation of bail
though it tantamounts taking away of the personal liberty conferred. 19. In the result, the petition is allowed by cancelling the bail
granted to the respondent/accused No.33 by order dated 15.05.2014 in
Crl.P.No.5492 of 2014 on the file of this Court. __________________________ 
Dr. B.SIVA SANKARA RAO J, 
July 14, 2014