K.M. JOSEPH, J. Index
 A. THE FACTS ....................................................................................................................................... 2
 B. SUBMISSIONS OF PARTIES ............................................................................................................ 15
 C. ANALYSIS ....................................................................................................................................... 18
 D. A CARRIER, A BAILEE? ................................................................................................................... 30
 E. THE CARRIAGE BY ROAD ACT, 2007 .............................................................................................. 34
 F. CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST ....................................................................................................... 35
 G. THE SALE OF GOODS ACT, 1930 .................................................................................................... 36
 H. IS A THIEF AN OWNER? OWNERSHIP BEING ILLEGAL. .................................................................. 37
 I. Signature Not Verified THE CIRCULAR DATED 07.07.1964 ................................................................................................ 41 Digitally signed by Nidhi Ahuja J.
Date: 2023.05.17
10:17:00 IST
 THE DEPARTMENTAL INSTRUCTIONS DATED 11.05.1994 ............................................................ 42
Reason: A. THE FACTS 3. The appellant-assessee carried on business as

carriage contractor for bitumen loaded from oil

companies namely HPCL, IOCL and BPCL from Haldia. The

goods were to be delivered to various divisions of the

Road Construction Department of the Government of

Bihar. According to the appellant, it has been in the

business for roughly three decades. 4. By the impugned Order dated 05.03.2009 in M.A. 214

of 2002, the High Court has dismissed the Appeal filed

by the appellant under Section 260A of the Income-Tax

Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Act’, for

short). The assessment year involved in the impugned

Order is 1996-1997. Appellant filed a Review Petition,

i.e., Review Petition No. 102 of 2009. By Order dated

18.12.2017, the Review Petition came to be dismissed. 2 It is, accordingly, that the present Special Leave

Petition has been filed, challenging both the Orders. 5. A scam was reported in the media. The scam

consisted of transporters of bitumen, lifted from oil

companies, misappropriating the bitumen and not

delivering the quantity lifted to the various Divisions

of the Road Construction Department of the Government

of Bihar. The scam had its repercussion in the

assessments under the Act. 6. It all began, as far as the appellant is concerned,

in the assessment year 1995-1996. By an Assessment

Order dated 27.03.1998 being passed, the Assessing

Officer, taking note of the scam, issued Show-Cause

Notice dated 23.01.1998, alleging that the appellant

had lifted 14507.81 metric tonnes of bitumen but

delivered only 10064.1 metric tonnes. This meant that

the appellant had not delivered 4443.1 metric tonnes.

The appellant produced photocopies of challans to

establish that the bitumen had been delivered. Summons

was issued by the Assessing Officer to the Executive

Engineers and Junior Engineers. It is the case of the

appellant that all Junior Engineers, except Shri Madan 3 Prasad and Ahia Ansari accepted the factum of delivery

of bitumen. The Assessing Officer, in fact, noticed

that only those Junior Engineers accepted receipt of

bitumen, where the Engineer In-charge or the Executive

Engineer accepted the delivery. Shri Madan Prasad

denied that the signature alleged to be his, was not

his signature. The Assessing Officer found that the

Junior Engineers denied putting stamp and took the

position that if there was stamp, then, it must

indicate the name of the section. The Assessing Officer

added a sum of Rs.21985700/- being the figure arrived

at, by finding that 4443.80 metric tonnes of bitumen

had not been delivered. This was done by invoking Section 69A of the Act. 7. Chronologically, this Court notices that for the

assessment year 1996-1997, the Assessing Officer passed

Order dated 31.03.1999. The appellant, in its Return,

disclosed a net profit of Rs.676133/-. On scrutiny, the

Assessing Officer, again, noticing the scam and finding

that, while 10300.77 metric tonnes had been lifted by

the appellant, only 8206.25 metric tonnes had been

delivered. Accordingly, it was found that 2094.52 4 metric tonnes had not been delivered. On the said basis

and again invoking Section 69A of the Act, a sum of

Rs.10471720.30 was added as income of the appellant. 8. As against the Order dated 27.03.1998 for the

Assessment Year 1995-1996, in Appeal, by Order dated

15.09.2000, the Commissioner Appeals found that all

Junior Engineers, except two, had accepted delivery.

After finding that the addition made by the Assessing

Officer in respect of quantity, where Junior Engineers

had accepted delivery, was untenable, the Appellate

Authority ordered deletion of a sum of Rs.20114659/-.

This amount represented the value of 4064.28 metric

tonnes. In regard to the disputed quantity, viz., the

dispute raised by Shri Madan Prasad and Ahia Ansari,

Junior Engineers, the matter was remanded back for

affording an opportunity for cross-examination. This

Order related to the Assessment Year 1995-1996. 9. Next in chronological order, is the Order dated

18.12.2000 passed by the Appellate Authority in Appeal

carried by the appellant against the Order dated

31.03.1999, relating to the Assessment Year 1996-1997.

The Appellate Authority referred to the assessment for 5 the previous year. It found merit in the case of the

appellant that except two Junior Engineers, the others

had accepted the delivery. The addition of

Rs.10471720/- was ordered to be deleted. 10. The Revenue knocked at the doors of the Income-Tax

Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the

ITAT’, for short) for both the Assessment Years, viz.,

1995-1996 and 1996-1997. In regard to the Order passed

by the Appellate Authority for the Assessment Year

1995-1996, another development took place during the

pendency of the Appeal before the ITAT. By Application

dated 07.02.2001, the Revenue, invoking Section 154 of

the Act, sought rectification of the Order dated

15.09.2000. This Application came to be allowed by

Order dated 31.05.2001. It is, at once, noticed: objection of the appellant purported to support the

deletion of the addition of Rs.20114559/-. It also

purported to ventilate the objection of the appellant

in regard to other matters. The Appeal filed by the

appellant was directed against the Order of

Rectification passed under Section 154 of the Act. The

ITAT dismissed the Appeals filed by the Revenue and the

appellant. The cross-objection came to be disposed of.

This Order is dated 11.01.2002. 12. For the Assessment Year 1996-1997, the ITAT

disposed of the Appeal filed by the Revenue and also

the cross-objection filed against the Order dated

18.12.2000. The Appeal filed by the Revenue [ITA 240

(Patna/2001)] was allowed. The Tribunal finds that the

appellant had not disputed the lifting of the bitumen.

The claim made by the appellant that full supply was

made, stood demolished, when photocopies of delivery

challans were found to be false and fabricated. The

Executive Engineers, it was further found, had 9 confirmed non-delivery to the tune of 2090.40 metric

tonnes. The Commissioner Appeals, it was found, reached

a wrong conclusion, as he did not address himself to

the explanation offered by the Junior Engineers. It was

found that all Executive Engineers of the Consignee

Divisions presented a case of non-delivery before the

Assessing Officer. Thus, on the same day, i.e., on

11.01.2002, the ITAT allowed the Appeal filed by the

Revenue and sustained the Order of the Assessing

Officer relating to addition on account of short supply

of bitumen for the Assessment Year 1996-1997, whereas,

for the Assessment Year 1995-1996, taking note of the

Order of the Commissioner Appeals, passed under Section

154 of the Act, by which, the matter stood remitted

back, the Appeal of the Revenue and the Appeal of the

appellant, challenging the Rectification Order, came

to be dismissed. 13. This, in turn, triggered the Appeal, i.e., M.A.

214 of 2002 before the High Court by the appellant

under Section 260A of the Act. The High Court, inter

alia, refers to the appellant filing Return for the 10 Assessment Year 1996-1997, disclosing total income of

Rs.576133/-. 14. Reference is made to the addition of

Rs.1,04,72,720.30 on the basis of short supply of

bitumen. After referring to the submissions, the court

focussed on the scope of Section 69A of the Act. The

High Court found that the word ‘owner’ has different

meaning in different contexts and when a transporter

sells the goods and receives money for that not on

behalf of the real owner, it became the owner for the

purpose of tax. Having lifted bitumen and not supplied

to the Road Construction Department to which it was to

be supplied, the appellant would be liable to pay tax

on the bitumen lifted and not delivered. The High

Court distinguished the Judgment in Dhirajlal Haridas

v. Commissioner of Income Tax (Central), Bombay1 by

noting that for determining the person liable to pay

tax, the test laid down by this Court was to find out

the person entitled to that income. The Court also went

on to distinguish the judgment in Commissioner of 1 (1982) 138 ITR 570 11 Income Tax v. Amrit lal Chunilal2 It was found that in

the said case the assessee therein was not found to be

the owner whereas the ITAT found the appellant to be

the owner. The High court agreed with the said finding.

Thereafter, the High Court went on to deal with the

argument that the words ‘other valuable articles’ in Section 69A could not include ‘bitumen’. The argument

of the appellant which is noted is that for applying Section 69A bitumen should have some nexus with money,

bullion or jewellery. It was found that any article

which has value would come under the expression

‘valuable article’ under Article 69A and the value of

such article can be deemed to be the income of the

assessee, should the assessee fail to offer any

explanation or the explanation offered be

unsatisfactory. The argument that Section 69A would

not apply as the appellant had offered an explanation

was not accepted as it was found that an explanation

though offered, being not accepted, would lead to the

invocation of Section 69A , if the explanation was not

satisfactory. In other words, Section 69A applied. 2 (1984) 40 CTR Bombay 387. Lastly, in regard to the argument of the appellant that

the cost of the bitumen and not the value thereof was

added as income, the High Court finds that the

appellant did not have a case that it had sold the

bitumen at the price lower than the cost. The appellant

was found to be the owner of the bitumen and the

addition was sustained. This order was passed on

05.03.2009. 15. Thereupon, the appellant filed Review Petition No.

102 of 2009. The appellant purported to point out that

in separate appeals filed for assessment year 1995-96

and 1996-97 on the same set of facts, the ITAT had

allowed the appeal of the Revenue for the year 1996-

97, but for the assessment year 1995-96, the matter was

remanded back. This argument was rejected by the High

court in the review on the following reasoning: The fact that for the same assessee but for the

different assessment year, the same Bench of the ITAT

had accepted their plea of short supply of bitumen as

it was not within its knowledge as to whether the case

travelled in appeal before the High Court or not,

whereas the decision rendered by the Tribunal for the

assessment year 1995-96 had “travelled upto this Court

in M.A. 214 OF 2002”. It is against the order dated

05.03.2009 in M.A. 214 of 2002 and the order dated

18.12.2017 in the Review Petition 102 of 2009 that the

appellant is before this Court. 14 B. SUBMISSIONS OF PARTIES 17. The Court heard Shri Ramesh P. Bhat, learned Senior

Advocate on behalf of the appellant and Shri N.

Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor General on

behalf of the Revenue. 18. Shri Ramesh P Bhat strenuously urged before us that

impugned Orders betray palpable errors. When the error

was pointed out in Review though it is taken note of,

the High Court has failed to rectify the fallacy. In

short, the error on facts is as follows: 19. It is pointed out that for the Assessment Year

1995-1996, as noticed earlier, by virtue of the Order

of Rectification dated 31.05.2001, on the basis of

which, the Appeal filed by the Revenue, was dismissed

by the ITAT and Appeal filed by the appellant, against

which, Order came to be dismissed, the matter was to 15 be considered by the Assessing Officer. The same

Tribunal, on the same day, i.e., 11.01.2002, on the

other hand, allowed the Appeal of the Revenue and set

aside the Order dated 18.12.2000, by which, the

Commissioner Appeals had ordered the deletion based on

the alleged non-delivery of bitumen. In fact, it is

pointed out that the High Court notes in the Order

dated 05.03.2009, as if the Appeal was filed by the

appellant against the Assessment Year 1995-1996. Even

when the conflicting views taken by the Tribunal was

pointed out in the Review Petition, despite noticing

the argument, the High Court has rejected the same

without just cause. In the Order, it is pointed out

that the Court observed that the matter for the year

1995-1996 had travelled to the Court in M.A. 214 of

2012, when it actually related to 1996-1997. More

importantly, the learned Senior Counsel would contend

that bitumen cannot be treated as other valuable

article within the meaning of Section 69A of the Act.

The very company of words, in which the words ‘other

valuable article’ is found, viz., money, bullion and

gold, should have persuaded the Court to find the 16 addition illegal. It was also canvassed before us that

the appellant cannot be treated as the owner, as

appellant was a carrier. It fulfilled its obligations

by lifting the goods in question and delivered the

same. In fact, it is the contention of the appellant

that the goods had been delivered and there was no

misappropriation. There was no complaint by the oil

companies from whom, the bitumen had been lifted, about

there being short delivery. There was even no complaint

from the Consignee Department. The right to cross-

examination should have been offered. The burden

shifted to the Department to prove its case. The

learned Senior Counsel would draw support from the

following case law: 20. The appellant would contend that the finding that

the photocopies of the delivery challans were

fabricated was a gross error. The appellant has a case 17 that this is more so as the two Junior Engineers had

failed to appear for cross-examination. 21. The appellant also relied upon Judgment of this

Court in Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. v. A. Balakrishnan and another3. He further drew our attention to the

Judgment of this Court in Kishinchand Chellaram v.

Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City II, Bombay4 . 22. Shri N. Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor

General countered the submissions and submitted that

no case was made out. He would rely upon Chuharmal

(supra). The view taken by the High Court represents

the correct position in law. C. ANALYSIS 23. Section 69 deals with unexplained investments. It

reads as follows: 24. Section 69A came to be inserted by Finance Act,

1964 (Act 5 of 1964) w.e.f. 01.05.1964. It reads as

follows: 25. Section 69B provides for power with the Assessing

Officer to deal with investments made by an assessee

in bullion, jewellery and other valuable article, when

such assets are found to be owned by the assessee and

he finds a mismatch between the amount spent for

acquiring them or investing in them and the amount 19 recorded in the Books of Accounts for any source of

income and no explanation is offered or the explanation

offered is not found satisfactory, the excess amount

can be brought to tax. Section 69C , inserted w.e.f.

01.04.1976, deals with unexplained expenditure, being

deemed to be the income of the assessee. 26. Section 69 and Section 69A , apart from being close

neighbours, do bear resemblance with one another. Section 69 deals with unexplained investment. Section

69A deals with unexplained money, bullion, jewellery

or other valuable articles. Section 69A was inserted

by Amending Act 5 of 1964 and it came into effect w.e.f.

01.04.1964. Both Sections require that the subject

matter of the provisions, viz., investments in the case

of Section 69 and money, bullion, jewellery or other

valuable articles in the case of Section 69A are not

recorded in the Books of Account. That is, in a case

where Books of Accounts are maintained. In the case of

investments under Section 69 , necessarily, the Law-

Giver contemplates the Assessing Officer finding that

the assessee had made the investments. In the case of Section 69A , the assessee must be found to be the owner 20 of the money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable

articles. In both cases, if the assessee is able to

offer an explanation for the nature and the source for

the investments and money, bullion, jewellery or other

valuable articles, respectively, and it is not found

unsatisfactory, there can be no deemed income under

either Section. 27. Turning more to Section 69A , it may be broken down

into the following essential parts: 28. Applying the provision to the facts of the case,

it is noticed that the points that arise are as follows: 29. As regards the first question, viz., whether the

appellant could be treated as the owner of the bitumen 22 is concerned, it is indisputable that the appellant was

engaged as a carrier to deliver the bitumen, after

having lifted the same from the Oil Companies to the

various Divisions of the Road Construction Department

of the Government of Bihar. Before the Court proceeds

to deal with this aspect, we may bear in mind, what

this Court held in the decision reported in Chuharmal

S/O Takarmal Mohnani v. Commissioner of Income Tax,

M.P., Bhopal5. In the said case, the Court was dealing

with wrist watches being seized from the assessee

during a search conducted by the Customs Authorities

from the bedroom of the assessee. The question fell for

consideration, as to whether the principles underlying Section 110 of the Evidence Act, 1872, would assist the

Revenue to conclude that a person, in possession, could

be treated as the owner. This Court held, inter alia,

as follows: Hence, the High Court held, and in our
 opinion rightly, that the value of the
 wrist-watches is the income of the
 assessee.” 30. After referring to the Judgment of the High Court

of Bombay reported in J.S. Parkar v. V.B. Palekar6 ,

which dealt with seizure of gold, the Court, held as

follows: 31. The said view has been followed by this Court in Commissoiner of Income Tax, Salem v. K. Chinnathamban7 .

Therein the Court inter alia held: 32. It may be noticed that Section 15 of the Carriage

by Road Act, 2007 , which repealed the Carriers Act,

1865 , provides as follows: 33. Therefore, under Section 15 , if the consignee fails

to take delivery of any consignment of goods within

thirty days, the consignment is to be treated as 26 unclaimed. The period of thirty days is declared

inapplicable to perishable consignments, in which case,

a period of twenty-four hours’ notice or any lesser

period, as may be agreed between the consignor and the

common carrier, suffices. In the case of perishable

consignment, following such notice, the consignment can

be sold. In a case where the goods are not perishable,

if there is failure by the consignee to remove the

goods after the receipt of a notice of fifteen days

from the carrier, the common carrier is given a right

to sell the consignment without further notice. Section

15(3) enables the carrier to retain a sum equal to the

freights, storage and other charges, due, including

expenses incurred for the sale. The surplus from the

sale proceeds is to be returned to the consigner or the

consignee. Section 15(4) clothes the carrier with a

right to sell in the event of failure by the consignee

to make payment of the freight and other charges, at

the time of taking delivery. 34. This Court, in this case, is dealing with the

assessment years 1996-1997. The law applicable was

contained in the Carriers Act, 1865 . It is unnecessary 27 for us to dwell further, as it is not the case of either

party that the appellant had become the owner of the

bitumen in question in a manner authorised by law. On

the other hand, the specific case of the appellant is

that the appellant never became the owner and it

remained only a carrier. However, as noticed, if it is

found that there has been short delivery, this would

mean that the appellant continued in possession

contrary to the terms of contract of carriage. 35. In Mohan B. Samtani v. Commissioner of Income-Tax8 ,

the appellant, who was found in possession of a

package, which, when opened at the airport, contained

a bronze idle of Nataraja and its pedestal, was sought

to be roped in as owner with the aid of Section 69A of

the Act: 36. The High Court went on to distinguish Chuharmal

(supra) by holding that in the case before the High

Court, the assessee had produced the evidence to

substantiate that the article found in his possession

belonged to the Chogyal of Sikkim. 29 D. A CARRIER, A BAILEE? 37. When goods are entrusted to a common carrier, the

entrustment would amount to a contract of bailment

within the meaning of Section 148 of the Contract Act,

1872 when it is for being carried by road, as in this

case. A contract for bailment may not involve any

consideration being payable in which case Section 58 of the Contract Act obliges the bailor to repay to the

bailee the necessary expenses incurred by him for the

purpose of bailment. Possession is central to bailment.

[See Pullock and Mulla in the Indian Contract and

Specific Relief Act]. Section 151 of the Contract Act

declares that ‘in all cases of bailment the bailee is

bound to take as much care of the goods bailed to him

as a man of ordinary prudence would, under similar

circumstances, take of his own goods of the same bulk,

quality and value as the goods bailed.’ Can it be said

that the standard of care as declared in Section 151 is alone applicable to the common carrier. The subject

matter is not res integra. In Patel Roadways Ltd. v. 30 Birla Yamaha Ltd.9 , the Court held inter alia as

follows: - 38. In the same year, and what is more, in the same

volume, this Court spoke on the subject in the decision

reported in Nath Bros. Exim International Ltd. v. Best

Roadways Ltd.10 . The Court held, inter alia, as follows: 39. To apply Section 69A of the Act, it is

indispensable that the Officer must find that the other

valuable article, inter alia, is owned by the assessee.

A bailee, who is a common carrier, is not an owner of

the goods. A bailee who is a common carrier would

necessarily be entrusted with the possession of the

goods. The purpose of the bailment is the delivery of

the goods by the common carrier to the consignee or as

per the directions of the consignor. During the

subsistence of the contract of carriage of goods, the

bailee would not become the owner of the goods. In the 33 case of an entrustment to the carrier otherwise than

under a contract of sale of goods also, the possession

of the carrier would not convert it into the owner of

the goods. E. THE CARRIAGE BY ROAD ACT, 2007 40. Under Section 15 of the Carriage by Road Act, 2007 ,

the carrier can, after issuing notice as provided, when

there is a failure by the consignee to take delivery,

sell the goods in the case of a sale which is so

authorised by a statute. The buyer from the carrier

would acquire a good title even as against the

consignee. It may be true that as far as the sale

proceeds received by the common carrier from the sale,

he would be accountable to the consignee as provided

in Section 15 of the Act. Likewise, in a case covered

under Section 15 (4), the common carrier would have the

power to dispose of the consignment for recovery of

dues from the consignee. In such cases if the other

ingredients of Section 69A are satisfied, there may be

no fallacy involved if an assessee is found to be the 34 owner of the goods which he disposes of under the

authority of law. F. CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST 41. Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 reads

as follows: 42. Section 39 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, inter

alia, contemplates delivery pursuant to a contract of

sale by the seller to the carrier as prima facie to be

deemed to be the delivery of the goods to the buyer.

It becomes the responsibility of the buyer of a carrier

to fulfil its contractual obligations and deliver the

goods to the consignee or as per its instructions. Section 27 of the Sale of Goods Act deals with sale by

a person who is not the owner. It reads as follows: - 43. Sale by a carrier does not pass title except when

it is immunised by the conduct of the owner of the good

which would in turn estop the owner from impugning the

title of the buyer. Under Section 15 of the Carriage

by Road Act, 2007 , a sale by a carrier is permitted and

it can convey good title to the buyer. H. IS A THIEF AN OWNER? OWNERSHIP BEING ILLEGAL. 44. Can a thief be treated as the owner of the goods?

In this regard, this Court notices the following

discussion in the commentary on Sampath Iyengar’s, Law

of Income Tax. ”12. Sine qua non is “ownership”.- The words
 “is found to be the owner” appearing in this
 section clearly show that the mere fact that,
 on a search, certain articles are found in the
 possession of a person cannot be said to
 attract the provisions of this section unless
 it is established that the person in whose
 possession articles were found is the owner
 thereof. An assessee is to be the owner before
 anything in his possession can be deemed to be
 his income. It cannot be said in the case of
 stolen property that the thief is the owner
 thereof. Section 69A was enacted to treat the
 value of certain items as income by a deeming
 provision but facts must be found to bring a
 case within that deeming provision. In the case 37 of a deeming provision the court has to assume
 an unreal state of things to be real.” 45. In Commissioner of Income Tax v. K.I. Pavunny11 , a

Division Bench was dealing with the case where excise

authorities found articles covered by Section 69A in a

box. The assessee sought to attribute ownership to

another person with whom he was on inimical terms. The

High Court of Kerala found that the assessee did not

discharge his onus to establish that the articles

belonged to someone else. What is of interest to this

Court is the following discussion: 46. Appellant places reliance on judgment in Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax vs. S. Pichaimanickan

Chettiar reported in 1984 (147) ITR 251. In the said 11 (1998) 232 ITR 837 38 case, it is noted that Section 69A of the Act was

invoked after finding the assessee and one Ameen were

found to be in possession of gold at railway station

and were convicted under Section 135(b)(ii) of the

Customs Act. The Court held against the revenue after

holding as follows: 47. Both views can be reconciled. No doubt, it may be

true that a person may own, contraband or prohibited

articles and still be within the embrace of Section

69A. In other words, the illegality of the ownership

may not ill square with the requirement of Section 69A

that the assessing officer must find the assessee to

be the owner of the article. However, that is not to

say that without finding ownership or when it is 39 obvious that someone else is the owner, a person found

in possession, which is illegal, can be found to be the

owner under Section 69A. The question would arise

pointedly, as to, when a common carrier refuses to

deliver the consignment and continues to possess it

contrary to contract and law and converts it into his

use and presumably sells the same, as to whether he

could be found to be the owner of the goods. Would he

be any different from a person who commits theft and

sells it claiming to be the owner. Can a thief become

the owner? It would be straining the law beyond

justification if the Court were to recognise a thief

as the owner of the property within the meaning of

Section 69A. Recognising a thief as the owner of the

property would also mean that the owner of the property

would cease to be recognised as the owner, which would

indeed be the most startling result. While possession

of a person may in appropriate cases, when there is no

explanation forthcoming about the source and quality

of his possession, justify an assessing officer finding

him to be the owner, when the facts are known that the

carrier is not the owner and somebody else is the owner, 40 then to describe him as the owner may produce results

which are most illegal apart from being unjust.

 I. THE CIRCULAR DATED 07.07.1964 48. In this regard, the following are the contents of

the Circular issued by the Board, dated 7th July 1964,

namely, Circular No. 20 of 1964. It reads as follows: 49. This Court notices Departmental Instruction No.

1916 dated 11th May, 1994. “2. Departmental instructions. – Instruction read
 as under: tax/Commissioner authorising the search at the
 time of furnishing the search report. In all cases, a detailed inventory of the
 jewellery and ornaments found must be prepared
 to be used for assessment purposes.”

 K. R. B. JODHA MAL DISTINGUISHED BY HIGH COURT 50. The High Court has distinguished the judgment of

this Court in R.B. Jodha Mal Kuthiala Vs. Commissioner

of Income Tax, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal

Pradesh and Patiala12 . In the said case, the appellant 12 (1971) 3 SCC 369 43 claimed losses for three assessment years. The losses

were claimed on account of interest payable to the

bank. The appellant assessee had availed the loan in

connection with his business which was being conducted

in erstwhile Pakistan. With the creation of Pakistan,

the hotel which was a part of the appellant’s business

came to be declared as evacuee property and vested in

the custodian in Pakistan. The claim of the appellant

assessee in the said case was resisted by the Assessing

Officer on the basis of that no income or loss from

that hotel could be considered as the property stood

vested with the custodian. In other words, since the

appellant was resting his claim made under Section 9 of the Income Tax act, 1922 (which corresponds to Section 22 of the Act) as the appellant was not the

owner, no relief could be granted to the appellant. The

contention of the appellant was that the property

vested in the custodian wholly for the purpose of

administration and the assessee continued to an owner.

This Court, inter alia, held as under: A property cannot be owned by two persons,
each one having independent and exclusive
right over it. Hence for the purpose of Section 9 , the owner must be that person who
can exercise the rights of the owner, not on
behalf of the owner but in his own right. 10. For a minute, let us look at things
from the practical point of view. If the
thousands of evacuees who left practically all
their properties as well as businesses in
Pakistan had been considered as the owners of
those properties and businesses as long as the
“Ordinance” was in force then those
unfortunate persons would have had to pay
income tax on the basis of the annual letting
value of their properties and on the income,
gains and profits of the businesses left by
them in Pakistan though they did not get a
paisa out of those properties and businesses.
Fortunately no one in the past interpreted the
law in the manner Mr Mahajan wants us to
interpret. It is true that equitable
considerations are irrelevant in interpreting
tax laws. But those laws, like all other laws
have to be interpreted reasonably and in
consonance with justice. 14. For determining the person liable to
pay tax, the test laid down by the court was
to find out the person entitled to that
income. An attempt was made by Mr Mahajan to
distinguish this case on the ground that under
the corresponding English statute the
liability to tax in respect of income from
property is not laid on the owner of the
property. It is true that Section 82 of the 45 English Income Tax Act, 1952, is worded
differently. But the principles underlying
the two statutes are identical. This is clear
from the various provisions in that Act. 17. Those observations have to be
understood in the context in which they were
made. Therein, Their Lordships were
considering whether the right of an evacuee
in respect of the property left by him in the
country from which he migrated was property
right for the purpose of Article 19(1)(f) of
the Constitution. No one denies that an
evacuee from Pakistan has a residual right in
the property that he left in Pakistan. But the
real question is, can that right be considered
as ownership within the meaning of Section 9 of the Act. As mentioned earlier that section
seeks to bring to tax income of the property
in the hands of the owner. Hence the focus of
that section is on the receipt of the income.
The word “owner” has different meanings in
different contexts. Under certain
circumstances a lessee may be considered as
the owner of the property leased to him.
In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary (3rd Edn.),
various meanings of the word “owner” are
given. It is not necessary for our present
purpose to examine what the word “owner” means
in different contexts. The meaning that we
give to the word “owner” in Section 9 must not
be such as to make that provision capable of
being made an instrument of oppression. It
must be in consonance with the principles
underlying the Act. 18. Mr Mahajan next invited our attention
to the observations in Pollock on
Jurisprudence (6th Edn. 1929) pp. 178-80: Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Hyderabad13; the matter

arose under the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 . Section 2(m) of

the said Act defined net wealth as being predicated

with reference to assets “belonging to” the assessee.

The assessee in the said case had sold out the property

without executing the sale deed. The possession was 13 1986 (supp.) SCC 700 47 handed over to the buyer after receiving full

consideration. The Court notices the following

statement: Podar Cement Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.14, a Bench of three

learned Judges had occasion to revisit the issue in the

following set of facts. The matter arose by way of

reference under Section 257 of the Act to the Supreme

Court in view of the conflicting judgment of the High

Courts. The assessee in one of the cases claimed that

the rental income was assessable as income from other

sources in as much as the assessee company was not the

legal owner of the flats. This was for the reason that

the title of the property had not been conveyed to the

cooperative society which was formed by the purchaser

of the flats. In one of the appeals, the assessee 14 (1997) 5 SCC 482 51 claimed that the income must be assessed under Section 22. The claim was rejected on the ground that assessee

was only a lessee and had only tenancy rights. The

common question which arose in all the cases was the

scope of Section 22 of the Act vis-a-vis Section 56 of

the Act. Section 22 of the Act brings to tax income

from house property and the section expressly declares

that the assessee must be the owner of the building or

lands. Section 27 purports to define the expression

owner of house property, inter alia, for the purpose

of Sections 22 to 26. It includes a person who is

allowed to take or retain possession of any building

or part thereof, in part performance of a contract of

the nature referred to in Section 53(A) of the Transfer

of Property Act. The Court distinguished Jodha Mal (supra). This Court further referred to in great detail

the judgment of the Patna High Court in Additional

Commissioner of Income Tax, Bihar v. M/s. Sahay

Properties and Investment Co.(P) Ltd.15. Since this

Court has approved the reasoning adopted by the Patna 15 1983 (144) ITR 357 52 High Court, it is deemed appropriate to refer to the

same: We have, therefore, now to refer to the case-
 law on the subject.”
 (Emphasis supplied)

 Further, it is found that the Court also noticed

the memorandum explaining provisions in Finance Bill

1987 concerning Section 27 and found that the amendment

was intended to supply an obvious omission or clear up

the doubts surrounding the word owner in Section 22 of

the Act. The Court answered the reference in favour of

the Revenue by holding that “in the context of Section

22 of the Act having regard to the ground realities and 60 to the object of the Act, namely, to tax the income of

the “owner as a person who is entitled to receive income

from the property in his own right.” 55. In Mysore Minerals Ltd. M.G. Road, Bangalore v.

Commissioners of Income Tax, Karnataka, Bangalore16 the

assessee company though allotted houses by delivery of

possession by the Housing Board, an actual deed of

conveyance had not been executed in its favour. The

houses so allotted were for the use of its staff.

Assessee claimed depreciation under Section 32 of the

Act. Section 32 of the Act also contemplates ownership

of the asset as a condition for claiming the benefit

of depreciation. The Court, inter alia, held as

follows: One such definition is that the “owner” or
“proprietor” of a property is the person in
whom (with his or her assent) it is for the
time being beneficially vested, and who has the
occupation, or control, or usufruct, of it;
e.g., a lessee is, during the term, the owner
of the property demised. Yet another definition
that has been given by Stroud is: Possession is also delivered to the allottee
so as to enable enjoyment of the property.
Execution of document transferring title
necessarily follows if the schedule of payment
is observed by the allottee. If only the
allottee may default the property may revert
back to the Board. That is a matter only 64 between the Housing Board and the allottee. No
 third person intervenes. The part-payments
 made by the allottee are with the intention of
 acquiring title. The delivery of possession by
 the Housing Board to the allottee is also a
 step towards conferring ownership. Documentation is delayed only with the idea of
 compelling the allottee to observe the schedule
 of payment.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 56. Lastly, there is the judgment of this Court in Industrial Credit and Development Syndicate Ltd. v.

Commissioner of Income Tax, Mysore & Anr.17 . The

assessee was engaged in the business of hire purchase,

leasing and real estate etc. As part of its business,

it leased out vehicles to its customers, and

thereafter, had no physical connection with the

vehicles. What is more, the lessees were registered as

the owners of the vehicles in the Certificate of

Registration under the Motor Vehicles Act . The claim

of depreciation made under Section 32 of the Act was

rejected on the basis that the assessee was not the

owner of the vehicles. The Court found from the lease

agreement that it was agreed that the assessee was to 17 (2013) 3 SCC 541 65 be the exclusive owner of the vehicle at all points of

time. The argument of the Revenue that the name of the

lessee was entered in the Certificate of Registration

under Motor Vehicle Act , and therefore, it must be

treated as the owner under Section 2(30) was rejected.

It was further found that if the lessee was in fact the

owner, he would have claimed depreciation, which was

not done. It was also found that the entire lease rent

was assessed as business income in the hands of the

assessee. The Court went on to hold that in the facts

it was the appellant-assessee which could be treated

as the owner of the vehicles entitling it to claim the

benefit of depreciation under Section 32. 57. This Court is called upon to decide the ambit of

the word ‘owner’ in section 69A in the facts before us.

This Court agrees with the High Court that the concept

of ‘owner’ cannot be divorced from the context in which

the expression is employed. In the case of Jodha Mal (supra), the property undoubtedly stood vested as

evacuee property with the custodian in Pakistan. The

assessee wanted to claim the benefit of the losses it

had made at a time when he had ceased to be the owner. 66 This Court bore in mind the effect of the Act under

which the custodian in Pakistan became the owner. The

claim of the assessee in the said case was that the

custodian was owner only for the purpose of

administration and that the assessee still continued

to be the owner in the sense that he had the ultimate

right to the property. This Court took a practical view

as well noticing that thousands of evacuees who had

left all the properties in Pakistan would be visited

with tax even though they had left Pakistan and they

did not get a paisa out of those properties and

businesses. It was found that for the purpose of Section 9 , the owner must be that person who can

exercise the rights of the owner, not on behalf of the

owner, but in his own right. The Court also accepted

that an evacuee from Pakistan had a residual right in

the property. It was in this context that the Court

considered as to whether that residual right can be

considered as ownership for the purposes of Section 9 of the earlier Act. It was still further in the said

context that the Court held that the focus of the

Section is on the receipt of the income and that the 67 word owner had different meanings in different

contexts. 58. When it came to the Podar Cement Pvt. Ltd. (supra),

this Court took into consideration the ground reality

in the context of Section 22 of the Act and approved

of taxing the income of a person who is entitled to

receive income from the property in his own right under

Section 22. We have elaborately referred to the

judgment of the Patna High Court in the Sahay

Properties case. The full rights of an owner as set out

therein may again be reiterated as: 59. This Court may at this juncture observe that a

carrier has none of these rights or powers. It may be

true that in order to be an owner, all the rights and

powers of an owner need not be present at the same 68 point of time in the same person. It may be true that

ownership may be associated with a better right to be

in possession and actual possession in a given case may

be harmonised with ownership. Being in possession with

a right to be possession may lead to a presumption that

the possessor is the owner, unless it be that there are

indications to the contrary. The beneficial vesting may

in the context clothe the person with title as the

owner. Another concept which emerges is a person in

receipt of money having actual control over the

property with no person having a better right to defeat

his claim of possession may open the doors to a finding

that he is the owner within the meaning of Section 69A.

A person in actual physical control of the property and

realising the entire income for his own use may

indicate the presence of ownership. The absence of the

conveyance needed to complete the transfer may not

detract from a person being found to be the owner. The

soul of the reasoning appears to be the entitlement to

receive the income from the property ‘in his right’. 60. Let us apply these tests and ascertain whether the

appellant can be treated as the owner in any sense of 69 the expression. Appellant as a carrier was entrusted

with the goods. The possession of the appellant began

as a bailee. The Court proceeds further on the basis

that instead of delivering the goods, the appellant did

not deliver the goods to the concerned divisions of the

department in the State of Bihar. Ownership of the

goods in question by no stretch of imagination stood

vested at any point of time in the appellant. Property

would pass from the consignor to the consignee on the

basis of the principles which are declared in the Sale

of Goods Act . It is inconceivable that any of those

provisions would countenance passing of property in the

goods to the appellant who was a mere carrier of the

goods. Section 406 of the IPC makes it an offence for

a person entrusted with property which includes goods

entrusted to a carrier being misappropriated or

dishonestly being converted to the use of the carrier.

A specific illustration under Section 406 makes it

abundantly clear that any such act by a carrier

attracts the offence under Section 406. The Court in

other words would have to allow the commission of an

offence by the appellant in the process of finding that 70 the appellant is the owner of the goods. In other words,

proceeding on the basis that there was short delivery

of the goods by the appellant, inevitably, the Court

must find that the act was not a mere omission or a

mistake but a deliberate act by a carrier involving it

in the commission of an offence under Section 406. In

other words, the Court must necessarily find that the

appellant continued to possess the bitumen and

misappropriated and it is in this state that assessing

officer would have to find that the appellant by the

deliberate act of short delivering the goods and

continuing with the possession of the goods not only

contrary to the contract but also to the law of the

land, both in the Carriers Act 1865 and breaking the

penal law as well, the appellant must be treated as the

owner. 61. There is no equity about a tax. Equally, a person

cannot be taxed based on intendment. Unlike the

possession of a person who for all intents and

purposes, and in his own right, earns income from house

property, lawfully otherwise, and falls short of

ownership only for want of a formal conveyance as 71 required under Section 54 of Transfer of Property Act,

a carrier who clings on to possession not only without

having a shadow of a right, but what is more, both

contrary to the contract as also the law cannot be

found to be the owner. The possession of the carrier

who deliberately refuses to act under the contract but

contrary to it, is not only wrongful, but more

importantly, makes it a case where the possession

itself is without any right with the carrier to justify

his possession. Recognising any right with the carrier

in law would involve negation of the right of the actual

owner which if the property in the goods under the

contract has passed on to the consignee is the

consignee and if not the consignor. This Court has

already found that the appellant is bereft of any of

the rights or powers associated with ownership of

property. The only aspect was the alleged possession

of the goods which is clearly wrongful when it

continued with the appellant contrary to the terms of

the contract and the law. 62. The Court is conscious of the fact that income

derived from an illegal business can be legitimately 72 brought to tax [See AIR 1980 SC 1271]. However, that

is a far cry from justifying invocation of Section 69A of the Act as it is indispensable to invoke the said

provision that the assessing officer must find that the

articles in question was under the ownership of the

assessee in the financial year. This is apart from

other requirements being met. 63. This Court may approach the issue from another

angle. Section 69A was inserted in 1964 to get at income

which was sought to be screened from tax by purchasing

valuable articles such as bullion and gold and

jewellery besides keeping it in the form of money also.

The object of such assessee would also be achieved by

becoming the owners of other valuable articles. In this

case, is it a case where the appellant was attempting

to conceal taxable income by illegally possessing the

bitumen? Proceeding further and assuming again that the

assessee possessed the bitumen albeit illegally and

proceeded to dispose of the same. The rationale of the

Revenue involves ownership of the bitumen being

ascribed to the appellant based on possession of the

bitumen contrary to the contract of carriage and with 73 the intention to misappropriate the same, which further

involves the sale of the bitumen for which there is no

material as such. But this Court proceeds on the basis

that such a sale also took place. What is however

important is, the requirement in Section 69A that the

assessing officer must find that the assessee is the

owner of the bitumen. This Court is unable to agree

that in the facts it could be found that the appellant

could be found to the owner. It is further found that

the appellant could not be said to be in possession in

his own right, accepting the case of the Revenue that

there was short delivery. This Court finds that the

appellant did not possess the power of alienation.

Quite clearly, if the case of short delivery is

accepted, the consignee if property had passed to it

had every right over the bitumen and proceeding on the

basis that the assessing officer’s reasoning is

correct, the department definitely had a case that it

had not received the bitumen in question. The right

over the bitumen as an owner at no point of time could

have been claimed by the appellant. The possession of

the appellant at best is a shade better than that of a 74 thief as the possession had its origin under a contract

of bailment. This is also not a case where any case is

set up of the carrier exercising rights available in

law entitling it possess goods as of right or pass on

title to another under law as permitted. Hence, this

Court would hold that the Assessing Officer acted

illegally in holding that one appellant was the ‘owner’

and on the said basis made the addition.

 L. “OTHER VALUABLE ARTICLE” 64. It is a case of the appellant that applying the

Principle of Ejusdem Generis, bitumen would stand out

as a strange bed fellow in the company of its immediate

predecessor words, viz., money, bullion and jewellery.

In other words, it is the case of the appellant that

bitumen is a clear misfit and it could not have been

the legislative intention to treat bitumen as other

valuable article. Our attention is drawn to the

Circular No. 20D dated 07.07.1964 issued by Central

Board of Direct Taxes, which has been adverted to. {see

paragraph 48} 75 65. In Bhagwandas Narayandas v. Commissioner of Income

Tax, Ahmedabad and others18, the question, which, inter

alia, fell for consideration before a learned Single

Judge of High Court of Gujarat, was, whether fixed

deposit receipts and title deeds of immovable property

were ‘valuable things or articles’, which required a

show-cause notice under Rule 112A of the Income-Tax

Rules, 1962. Section 132 if the Act also employs the

expression ‘other valuable articles’. The Court, inter

alia, held as follows: 66. Unlike a document of title or a fixed deposit

receipt, which cannot, by itself, be disposed of or

alienated, bitumen would be goods, which can be

transferred. It would have a value in the market

depending upon its quality. In Commissioner of Income

Tax v. M.K. Gabrial Babu and others19, the High Court

of Kerala was dealing with the question, as to whether

immovable property would be covered within the

expression ‘other value article or thing’ within the

meaning of Section 132(1) of the Act. The Court held: 67. In contrast to the view taken in the impugned order

before us, in Dhanush General Stores v. Commissioner

of Income Tax20 , the Court, inter alia, on facts, held

as follows: 68. The word ‘valuable’ has been defined in Black’s

Law Dictionary as follows: - 69. The word ‘valuable’ has been defined in the Concise

Oxford Dictionary as follows: - 70. The word ‘money’ has been described in Black’s Law

Dictionary as follows: - 71. The word ‘article’ has been defined in Black’s Law

Dictionary as “Generally, a particular item or thing

<article of clothing>. 72. The Word ‘bullion’ has been defined in the Concise

Oxford Dictionary as ‘gold or silver in bulk before

coining, or valued by weight’

 M.PRINCIPLE OF EJUSDEM GENERIS; NOSCITUR A
 SOCIIS 73. Section 69A provides for unexplained ‘money,

bullion, jewellery’. It is thereafter followed by the

words ‘or other valuable articles’. Does this mean that

the words ‘other valuable articles’ must be read

ejusdem generis? The principle applies when the

following conditions are present [Principles of

Statutory Interpretation by Justice G P Singh, 14th

Edition]: 74. In the context of Explanation 3(b) to Section 32(1) of the Act, this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax,

Kolkata v. SMIFS Securities Limited21 , held as follows: 75. In Rohit Pulp and Paper Mills Limited v. Collector

of Central Excise, Baroda22 , the Court was dealing with

an exception clause in an exemption notification and

considered the applicability of the Principle of

Noscitur a Sociis, to the facts: “12. The principle of statutory
 interpretation by which a generic word
 receives a limited interpretation by reason
 of its context is well established. In the
 context with which we are concerned, we can
 legitimately draw upon the “noscitur a
 sociis” principle. This expression simply
 means that “the meaning of a word is to be
 judged by the company it keeps.”
 Gajendragadkar, J. explained the scope of the
 rule in State of Bombay v. Hosptial Mazdoor
 Sabha [(1960) 2 SCR 866 : AIR 1960 SC 610 : In Rainbow Steels Ltd. v. CST [(1981) 2 SCC
 141 : 1981 SCC (Tax) 90] this Court had to
 understand the meaning of the word ‘old’ in
 the context of an entry in a taxing traffic
 which read thus: “Old, discarded, unserviceable or
 obsolete machinery, stores or vehicles
 including waste products......”

 Though the tariff item started with the use
 of the wide word ‘old’, the court came to the
 conclusion that “in order to fall within the
 expression ‘old machinery’ occurring in the
 entry, the machinery must be old machinery in
 the sense that it has become non-functional
 or non-usable”. In other words, not the mere
 age of the machinery, which would be relevant
 in the wider sense, but the condition of the
 machinery analogous to that indicated by the
 words following it, was considered relevant
 for the purposes of the statute.” 76. About Noscitur a Sociis and how it compares with

ejusdem generis, the following statement in G.P. Singh (supra) on Statutory Interpretation is apposite: 77. This Court has referred to the Principles of

Ejusdem Generis and Noscitur a Sociis, which

undoubtedly are rules of construction the latter being 85 described as having treacherous underpinnings and the

former requiring the existence of a genus which is not

exhausted by the categories catalogued in the statute.

This Court has also referred to the definition of the

words, money, bullion valuable and article. The Court

approves the view taken by the High Court of Gujarat

in Bhagwandas Narayandas (supra) that a document of

title to immovable property or a fixed deposit receipt

would not qualify as other valuable article. The

reasons which have been given appear to us to be sound.

A document of title or a fixed deposit receipt would

not be ‘articles’ which can be bought and sold in a

market. An article, would also not encompass an item

of immovable property. This Court can safely conclude

that an article must be movable property. One strong

indication that the Principle of Ejusdem Generis may

not apply is a decision of this Court in Chuharmal

(supra), where the articles involved were watches.

Watches by no stretch of imagination can be brought in

on the basis of ejusdem generis. They do not belong to

the so-called genus of money or bullion or jewellery.

The hallmark of a watch in the context of the expression 86 ‘other valuable article’ would be that it is marketable

and it has value. When it comes to value, it is noticed

that in the definition of the word ‘valuable’ in

Black’s Law Dictionary, it is defined as ‘worth a good

price; having a financial or market value’. The word

‘valuable’ has been defined again as an adjective and

as meaning worth a great deal of money in the Concise

Oxford Dictionary. Valuable, therefore, cannot be

understood as anything which has any value. The

intention of the law-giver in introducing Section 69A

was to get at income which has not been reflected in

the books of account but found to belong to the

assessee. Not only it must belong to the assessee, but

it must be other valuable articles. Let us consider a

few examples. Let us take the case of an assessee who

is found to be the owner of 50 mobile phones each having

a market value of Rs.2 lakhs each. The value of such

articles each having a price of Rs.2 lakhs would amount

to a sum of Rs.1 crore. Let us take another example

where the assessee is found to be the owner of 25 highly

expensive cameras. Could it be said that despite having

a good price or worth a great deal of money, they would 87 stand excluded from the purview of Section 69A. On the

other hand, let us take an example where a person is

found to be in possession of 500 tender coconuts. They

would have a value and even be marketable but it may

be wholly inapposite to describe the 500 tender

coconuts as valuable articles. It goes both to the

marketability, as also the fact that it may not be

described as worth a ‘good’ price. Each case must be

decided with reference to the facts to find out that

while articles or movables worth a great deal of money

or worth a good price are comprehended articles which

may not command any such price must stand excluded from

the ambit of the words ‘other valuable articles’. The

concept of ‘other valuable articles’ may evolve with

the arrival in the market of articles, which can be

treated as other valuable articles on satisfying the

other tests. 78. Bitumen is defined in the Concise Oxford English

Dictionary as ‘a black viscous mixture of hydrocarbons

obtained naturally or as a residue from petroleum

distillation, used for road surfacing and roofing’.

Bitumen appears to be a residual product in the 88 petroleum refineries and it is usually used in road

construction which is also probabalised by the fact

that the appellant was to deliver the bitumen to the

Road Construction Department of the State. Bitumen is

sold in bulk ordinarily. In the Assessment Order, the

Officer has proceeded to take Rs. 4999.58 per metric

ton as taken in the AG Report on bitumen scam. Thus,

it is that the cost of bitumen for 2094.52 metric ton

has been arrived at as Rs. 1,04,71,720.30. This would

mean that for a kilogram of bitumen, the price would

be only Rs.5 in 1995-1996 (F.Y). 79. Bitumen may be found in small quantities or large

quantities. If the ‘article’ is to be found ‘valuable’,

then in small quantity it must not just have some value

but it must be ‘worth a good price’ {See Black’s Law

Dictionary (supra)} or ‘worth a great deal of money’

{See Concise Oxford Dictionary (supra)} and not that

it has ‘value’. Section 69A would then stand attracted.

But if to treat it as ‘valuable article’, it requires

ownership in large quantity, in the sense that by

multiplying the value in large quantity, a ‘good price’

or ‘great deal of money’ is arrived at then it would 89 not be valuable article. Thus, this Court would

conclude that ‘bitumen’ as such cannot be treated as a

‘valuable article’. In view of these findings, this

Court need not pronounce on points III and IV. The

appeals are allowed. The impugned judgment will stand

set aside and though on different grounds, the order

by the Commissioner Appeals deleting the addition made

on the aforesaid basis will stand restored. ……………………………………….J.
 [K.M. JOSEPH]

NEW DELHI; DATED: MAY 16, 2023. 90 REPORTABLE
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3738-3739 OF 2023
 (Arising out of SLP(C)No. 10617-10618 OF 2023) @ Diary No. 7803 of 2018 M/S. D.N. SINGH Appellant(s)

 VERSUS

COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX,
CENTRAL, PATNA & ANR. Respondent(s)

 J U D G M E N T

Hrishikesh Roy, J. 1. I have perused the erudite opinion of my esteemed

 brother Justice KM Joseph. I am in accord with his

 judgment that for the purposes of Section 69A of

 the Income Tax Act, 1961- the deeming effect of

 the provision will only apply, if the assessee is

 the owner of the impugned goods and secondly, for

 any article to be considered as ‘valuable article’

 under Section 69A, it must be intrinsically Page 1 of 19 costly, and it will not be regarded as valuable if

 huge mass of a non precious and common place

 article is taken into account, for imputing high

 value. I wish to add the following reasoning to

 justify my opinion. 2. Two principal questions arise in this matter.

 Firstly, whether the assessee herein can be

 regarded as an ‘owner’ for the concerned goods,

 and, secondly, whether ‘bitumen’ can be covered

 within the category of ‘other valuable article’,

 alongside money, bullion and jewellery, as

 mentioned in Section 69A of the Income Tax Act,

 1961. 3. In the general scheme of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ,

 direct taxation, except in areas such as e-

 commerce, is inextricably connected to the

 ownership and not just possession of the

 underlying asset, creating income. Section 22 of

 the Act, which provides for taxation of income

 from house property provides that the assessee

 must be the owner of such property generating Page 2 of 19 income. Section 45 provides for income tax on

capital gains to be imputed on owners of capital

assets who transfer such assets and those who

convert them for lawful gains. Likewise, section

69A provides as a rule of evidence that for the

deeming effect to apply- the assessee must be the

owner of money, bullion, jewellery and other

valuable articles on which he is unable to proffer

a satisfactory explanation. Section 69B provides

that in cases of understated investments the

assessee should be the owner of money, bullion,

jewellery and other valuable article(s). Hence,

determining ownership of impugned goods is an

important factor to impute tax liability. Someone

having mere possession and without legal ownership

or title over the goods, will not be covered within

the ambit of Section 69A . An assessee may

nevertheless be also regarded as deemed owner if

possession is imputed on the assessee and no other

person having a better claim is contesting the

assessee’s claim. In the present case, the

assessee was certainly not the owner of the Page 3 of 19 bitumen - but was the carrier who was supplying

 goods from the consignor- oil marketing companies

 to the consignee- Road Construction Department.

 Notably, due to short delivery of goods, the

 possession of the assessee was unlawful. The

 inevitable conclusion therefore is that the

 assessee is not the owner, for the purposes of Section 69A . 4. To address the second question on whether bitumen

 is a valuable article under Section 69A , we must

 understand what sort of article is bitumen.

 Commonly, bitumen is described as a sticky, black,

 highly viscous, liquid or a semi-solid form of

 petroleum and a crude oil by-product, which is

 also known as asphalt. When crude oil is subjected

 to refining- by fractional distillation, i.e.

 before it is converted into industrially viable

 finished petroleum products, midway, several

 useful articles are obtained. In the process of

 distillation of crude oil in the fractionating

 column- top distillates like liquified petroleum Page 4 of 19 gas(LPG), middle distillates like- kerosene,

diesel, jet fuel and paraffin are obtained and in

the lower column, distillates like lubricants and

greases, are collected. At the residual level at

the bottom of the column, bitumen and asphalt are

the offshoot of the distillation process. Bitumen,

the highly viscous complex of hydrocarbons is

mostly used for road surfacing, roofing and for

water and alkaline resistant painting. The

question is whether this residual offshoot from

crude oil refining, can be categorised as a

valuable article, in the context of Section 69A of

the Income Tax Act keeping in mind that the

section, specifically lists three items i.e.

money, jewellery and bullion. To provide more

clarity it is relevant to quote the section in

full. It reads as follows: 5. The Patna High Court in the order challenged

 before us- held that under Section 69A “any

 article which has value will come under the

 expression “valuable article” as mentioned in Section 69A of the Act…”1 According to the Division

 Bench, for purposes of Section 69A , it will not be

 relevant whether the article in question is

 generally considered to be of high value and is a

 precious item. It possibly could be a common place

 and ordinary article but all that will be relevant

 is that the considered item has some value. The

 article can be a run-of-the-mill item or it can be 1 DN Singh Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax & Anr. (2010) 324 ITR 304 Page 6 of 19 a high priced one. According to the High Court the

 nature of the article is immaterial so long as it

 is of some value which may be accounted only by

 volume. In this case, the addition to assessee’s

 income related to Rs. 1.05 crores worth of

 bitumen. In particular, the impugned judgement

 also noted that in Section 69A the word ‘valuable

 article’ is a ‘separate item’ from bullion, money

 and jewellery and concluded that it may include

 any article of value. 6. At this juncture, it is also relevant to consider,

 the decision of the Chhattisgarh High Court in Dhanush vs. CIT2 under a related anti-avoidance

 provision, i.e. Section 69B of the Act. However,

 before adverting to the decision, it is pertinent

 to note that on the question of interpretation of

 the phrase ‘other valuable article’ in Section

 69A , the findings, will also be applicable to Section 69B . Although Section 69A deals with

2 Dhanush General Stores vs. Commissioner of Income Tax (2011) 339
ITR 651 Page 7 of 19 unexplained ownership of valuable articles, and

 the provision in Section 69B covers cases of

 understatement of expenditure incurred on

 acquisition of valuable articles, both provisions

 deal with the ownership of valuable articles. Section 69B , inserted by virtue of the Finance

 Act, 1965 (10 of 1965), reads as follows: Notably, it can be seen that- articles of value-

 are a genus of which valuable articles are a

 species i.e. a subset of high priced items. To put

 it differently, an article having value, may not

 be a valuable article. As for instance, a bag of

 cement, a sack of rice or a diamond stone will

 certainly have some value. But only the diamond

 stone can be regarded as a high cost valuable Page 9 of 19 item. To categorise all sundry items as valuable

 articles will mean an interpretation which will

 be foreign to the purpose of the law and the

 intention of the legislature in so far as Section

 69A is concerned. 9. At this point, it may also be useful to refer to

 the Circular No. 20 of 1964- Dated 7.7.1964. In

 this Circular the then Minister of Finance, while

 defending the insertion of Section 69A - stated

 that the 1964 Amendment is enacted not to subject

 lower middle-class people to taxation by taxing

 gold or jewellery inherited from forefathers, but

 provision is mandated for ‘big assessees’ who

 convert their black money and unaccounted wealth

 into gold jewellery and gold vessels and claim it

 to be heirloom. This makes it clear that the

 legislature never intended that any and every

 article of value should be brought within the

 ambit of Section 69A . It is only the high priced

 precious items- that command a premium price and

 are often used by high wealth individuals to park Page 10 of 19 their unaccounted income- by converting it into

 gold and bullion - that the Section 69A was

 inserted to address and to make such articles

 taxable under the Income Tax Act . Therefore, the

 intent of the legislature, through the Amendment

 – was to subject articles like gold, jewellery and

 other valuable items, to income tax, where such

 articles are typically owned with the intention

 of avoiding income tax. 10. Conversely, if all sundry articles of nominal

 value are bracketed in the category of valuable

 article, it will lead to an absurdity and will

 also be inconsistent with the legislative intent.

 Focusing on the high total value of an article,

 ignoring its lowly per unit price would mean

 including low-cost ordinary articles also in the

 valuable category, under Section 69A . This would

 defy the legislature’s logic. In this context,

 when the principle of Ejusdem Generis is applied,

 the preceding words in Section 69A such as money,

 bullion, jewellery would suggest that the phrase Page 11 of 19 ‘other valuable article’ which follows those

 words, would justify inclusion of only high value

 goods. Any other way of reading the phrase ‘other

 valuable article’ or ‘valuable article’ by

 ignoring the kind of specific goods mentioned in

 the preceding part of Section 69A , would be

 incorrect and would do violence to the plain

 language of the provision and will travel beyond

 the legislative intent. 11. Additionally, the maxim ‘noscitur a sociis’ i.e.

 (a word is known by its associates) would also

 support the above view that the other valuable

 articles should be items in the nature of silver

 bars, or jewellery or money i.e. only high priced

 item. It is given, that no law could possibly

 provide for an exhaustive list of all valuable

 items that may facilitate high income assessees

 to adjust their income. Only an indicative list

 of valuable articles can practically be mentioned

 in the Section. But to include bitumen- the

 residual offshoot material during processing of Page 12 of 19 crude oil, excluding its valuable constituents

 like petrol, diesel, LPG, aviation fuel etc.,

 within the expression ‘other valuable article’ in Section 69A , would in my opinion, result in

 absurdities, that we need to eschew. The common

 place items from kirana store and bitumen are

 intrinsically dissimilar to the high value items

 in Section 69A and through an interpretive

 exercise, we should not categorise them with items

 such as gold bars and jewellery. 12. At this stage it may also be beneficial to advert

 to the principle- “absoluta sententia expositore

 non indiget” i.e. (a simple proposition needs no

 expositor). The maxim provides that if the

 language employed by the legislature provides for

 adequate comprehensibility, then nothing

 additional is required. In New Shorrock Spinning

 and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. N.V. Raval 3 the

 Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, dealt

 with the construction of sub-section ( 10) of

 3 New Shorrock Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. N.V. Raval (1959) 37 ITR 41 Page 13 of 19 section 35 of the Income Tax Act, 1922, introduced

 by Amendment through the Finance Act, 1956 . In

 this regard the Court held that- “One safe and infallible principle
 which is of guidance in these matters
 is to read the words through and see if
 the rule is clearly stated. If the
 language employed gives the rule in
 words of sufficient clarity and
 precision, no more requires to be
 done.” 13. Furthermore, the principle that a fiscal statute

 should be strictly construed is, well settled. 4 The

 classical words of Justice Rowlatt in the 1920s case

 of Cape Brandy Syndicate5 would be of valuable

 assistance here. Justice Rowlatt while interpreting

 the phrase- ‘pre-war trade years’ in context of the

 British Finance Act,1915-16, observed as follows: 14. The above opinion of Justice Rowlatt was

 approvingly cited by former Chief Justice Koka

 Subba Rao, writing for a three judge bench of

 this Court in the case of Banarsi Debi vs. ITO.6

 The principle that provisions and exemptions

 under taxation statutes are to be strictly

 interpreted in accordance with legislative

 intent was also upheld by one of us recently in

 2022, in Augustan Textile Colours.7 15. Following the aforesaid discussion, it must be

 said that for purposes of interpreting Section

 69A of the Income Tax, Act 1961- the ordinary and

 literal meaning should be opted as the words in

 the statute are clear and unambiguous. The

 provision does not need any addition or

 subtraction and stands on its own legs. The phrase

 ‘valuable article’ would simply mean an item

 ‘worth a great deal of money’. It cannot mean, as

 is said in the impugned order, to include ‘any

 6 Banarsi Debi vs. ITO (1964) 7 SCR 539- See paragraph 6. 7 Augustan Textile Colours Ltd. vs. Director of Industries & Anr.
 (Civil Appeal No. 2830/2022) per Justice Hrishikesh Roy. See
 paragraphs 13 & 14 Page 15 of 19 article of value’. Therefore, in the context of Section 69A , unexplained valuable article has to

 be high priced item which are procured to hide

 income, to avoid tax liability. To adopt a wide

 interpretation for the phrase- ‘valuable article’

 and thereby include within its scope any sundry

 article of whatever value, is found to be

 unjustified. It needs to be also reiterated that,

 ordinarily, fiscal laws including taxation

 statutes, are to be strictly interpreted and tax

 must not be imposed through analogy, inference or

 by extension of phrases used by the legislature. 16. For purpose of Section 69A of Income Tax Act, it

 is therefore declared that- an ‘article’ shall be

 considered ‘valuable’ if the concerned article is

 a high-priced article commanding a premium price.

 As a corollary, an ordinary ‘article’ cannot be

 bracketed in the same category as the other high-

 priced articles like bullion, gold, jewellery

 mentioned in Section 69A by attributing high

 value to the run-of-the-mill article, only on the Page 16 of 19 strength of its bulk quantity. To put it in

 another way, it is not the ownership of huge

 volume of some low cost ordinary article but the

 precious gold and the like, that would attract

 the implication of deemed income under Section

 69A . 17. Earlier, it is the high value, less bulky items

 which were owned discreetly, that aided the

 assessee in avoiding tax. The 1964 Amendment was

 primarily enacted to address mischief of this

 nature. The wisdom of the legislature as

 reflected in the Amendment – was to subject to

 income tax, articles like gold, jewellery and

 other valuable items- typically owned with the

 intention of avoiding income tax-by translating

 income into buying and then hiding such precious

 high value items. Premium price cannot be

 attributed to an otherwise ordinary and common

 place article like bitumen only on the basis of

 huge mass of bitumen. It would be an incorrect

 way to categorize bitumen as a ‘valuable Page 17 of 19 article’, under Section 69A of the Income Tax,

 Act. 18. While doing the above analysis, the 1976 song

 “The First Hello, The Last Goodbye” written &

 sung by the British singer Roger Whittaker is

 buzzing in my mind. The singer here goes lyrical

 while crooning about things of great value and

 aptly sings ”…gold would not be precious if we

 all had gold to spare…..”. Taking a cue from the

 song’s lyrics, it can be appropriately said that

 the legislature while introducing section 69A to

 the Income Tax, Act, 1961 by the Finance Act,

 1964 , was concerned only with such precious and

 aspirational articles like bullion and jewellery

 which are capable of being repositories of hidden

 earnings but were not really concerned about

 common place stuff like “bitumen”, which would

 not attract a second glance, on any road surface

 of our country. 19. In conclusion, it is held that bitumen is not a

 valuable article in the context of Section 69A Page 18 of 19 and the assessee here was not the owner of the

 concerned bitumen for the purpose of section 69A of the Income Tax Act,1961. With the additional

 reasoning in the preceding paragraphs, I concur

 with the judgment delivered by my brother Justice

 K.M. Joseph. ………………………………………………J.
 [HRISHIKESH ROY]

NEW DELHI
MAY 16, 2023 Page 19 of 19