Hon'ble Om Prakash Shukla,J. (Per : Om Prakash Shukla, J.)
 

 
 (1) Heard Shri Rajendra Prasad Tiwari, learned Counsel representing the appellant/husband. Although, the respondent/ wife has filed her counter-affidavit, however, none appeared on behalf of the respondent/wife at the time of final hearing. (2) The appellant/husband has filed the present appeal under Section 19 of the Family Courts Act, 1984 read with Order XIII Rule 1-A of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 against the judgment and order dated 01.08.2012 passed by the Additional Principal Judge, Family Court, Lucknow, in Original Suit No. 1411 of 2005 : Smt. Yashoda Devi Vs. Kuldeep Singh . (3) Apparently, in the aforesaid suit, the respondent/wife had sought declaration of the judgment/decree dated 08.07.2005 passed in Original Suit No. 32 of 2005 filed under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'Act, 1955') by which divorce on the ground of Mutual Consent was granted, to be a nullity. Vide judgment and order 01.08.2012, the learned Family Court, while allowing the suit, has set-aside the judgment and decree dated 08.07.2005 and has held it to be a nullity, consequently, appellant/husband has been prohibited from marrying another woman unless he takes divorce from respondent/wife in accordance with law. (4) The factual matrix relevant to decide the present appeal can be captured from the records as herein below :- Explanation.--The suits and proceedings referred to in this sub-section are suits and proceedings of the following nature, namely:-- (emphasis added)
 

 

 
 (11) A bare reading of the aforesaid provision shows that a Family Court subject to the provision of the 1984 Act has and exercises all jurisdiction exercisable by any District Court or any subordinate Civil Court under any law for the time being in force in respect of suits and proceedings of the nature that are referred to in the 'Explanation'; besides, it is deemed for the purposes of exercising such jurisdiction under such law, to be a District Court, or, as the case may be, such subordinate Civil Court for the area to which the jurisdiction of the Family Court extends. Section 10 of the Act 1984 is also relevant in this context. (12) From the facts of the present case, it is seen that Original Suit No. 1411 of 2005 (hereinafter referred to as 'second suit') was filed by the respondent-wife for declaring the judgment and decree dated 08.07.2005 passed by the learned Family Court at Lucknow dissolving the marriage to be a nullity and for cancellation of the same, as allegedly, the same was obtained by misrepresentation and fraud. The outcome of the second suit filed by the respondent-wife thus related to the determination of her matrimonial status, that is to say, as to whether she is or she is not the wife of the appellant. (13) The decree of the Family Court dated 08.07.2005 by which the matrimonial relationship between the parties stands severed declares the legal character of the parties as far as their relationship of husband and wife is concerned. Thus, the subsequent suit that had been filed by the respondent is in essence for determining her matrimonial status as wife of the appellant for which the Family Court would indeed have jurisdiction in terms of Clause (b) of the 'Explanation' to Section 7 (1) of the 1984 Act. The plea of the appellant is, accordingly, rejected. Point No.1 is answered accordingly. Point Nos. II, III and IV
 
 (14) Point nos. II, III and IV are being dealt with conjointly. Learned Family Court, while considering issues no. (i) and (ii) framed by it, has recorded a finding that circumstances and evidence of the present case do not support divorce by mutual consent viz. firstly because in para-3 of Original Suit No.32 of 2005 filed under Section 13-B of the Act, 1955, on one hand, it was stated that both of them were living together and on the other, it was also stated that they were living separately since 2002; secondly because there is no explicit mention nor any statement regarding any alimony given by the appellant/husband to the respondent/wife at the time of divorce by mutual consent, whereas generally in such a case the situation regarding alimony would be determined; thirdly if the wife had actually accepted such an important incident of her life willingly, then, she would have told it gladly and immediately to her parents but not doing so, shows that she was unaware of the proceedings and nature of the documents signed by her and that her signature and photograph were taken by deceit as the wife had stated in her plaint that her husband brought her by telling her about the necessity of affixing her signature and photograph in the formalities related to his service; fourthly P.W.1 (the wife herself) and P.W.2, who is the father of the respondent/wife, had stated that on 26.09.2005, when he along with his daughter (respondent herein) went to in-laws of her daughter, then, they came to know the factum of divorce. The learned Family Court has recorded a finding that P.W.1 herself had stated that on 15.06.2005, her husband/appellant brought her to permanent residence at Pauri Garhwal, from where her husband brought her to her parents' residence at Dehradun on 18.08.2005 by saying that he would take some time for arranging accommodation at Joshimath. (15) Besides the aforesaid, the learned Family Court has also opined that on one hand, in the Original Suit no. 32 of 2005 filed under Section 13-B of the Act, 1955, both have accepted to live together and as such, in that situation, as per the provisions of Section 13-B of the Act, 1955, it cannot be said that at the time of filing of the suit, both the parties were living separately for a year or more. In this background, learned Family Court has decided issues No.1 and 2 in the affirmative in favour of the wife and has decreed the suit of the respondent/plaintiff. (16) As far as these points are concerned, this Court finds that appellant/husband was serving in Indian Army and was posted at Joshimath (Uttaranchal). He got married with the respondent/wife on 05.05.1995 in accordance with Hindu rites and rituals in Village Gadauli, district Pauri Garhwal (Uttaranchal). After marriage, appellant/husband brought respondent/wife to his residence at village Haluni, district Pauri Garhwal. Out of their wedlock, two male children were born on 21.07.1997 and 05.07.2000, respectively. The appellant/husband was transferred to Lucknow on 25.04.2003. The wife continued to live with the in-laws as stated by P.W.2 with no contrary evidence led by appellant on this issue. (17) The appellant/husband, as per his own testimony, was allotted official accommodation at Lucknow on 01.11.2004. He brought the respondent/wife and his younger son to Lucknow in November, 2004, though the wife says that she was brought in January, 2005. Be that as it may, as per the wife, she was brought to Lucknow. The husband has brought on record the photographs of the train tickets in support his claim, which we will deal later. The husband brought her to Lucknow as per the wife on the pretext of completion of necessary service related formalities while leaving both the children in the custody of his parents. In paragraph-6 of her plaint, respondent/wife has stated that on 05.01.2005, her husband/appellant brought her to a place and got her signature on some papers as this was necessary in connection with his service. Her husband/appellant also convinced her not to disclose anything about the photograph and signature to anyone. Thereafter, her husband kept her there till afternoon and then brought her to his temporary residence near his work place, where the appellant intimidated and confused the respondent/wife not to tell anyone about the signatures as well as pasting of the photographs etc. In paragraph-7, she has stated that while going on duty, she was instructed not to meet anyone nor to leave the house. Her husband kept her with him for about 6 months only. During the said period, again her husband brought her to the said designated place by telling her that some interrogation in connection with her signatures and photographs already made on the service related documents were required, wherein her husband, in his presence, again got signed some papers. Thereafter, on 15.08.2005, her husband brought her to his village Halauni, district Pauri Garhwal and told her that he had been transferred from Lucknow to Joshimath and he would require some time for arranging accommodation etc. at Joshimath and till then she should stay with his parents and after arranging accommodation etc. at Joshimath, he would take her to Joshimath. In paragraph-9, wife/respondent has stated that after staying for two days at her in-laws house, on 18.08.2005, her husband took her to the residence of her father posted at Dehradun and left her there. When her husband did not come to take her to her matrimonial home, then on 26.09.2005, she along with her father went to the house of her in-laws, wherein her in-laws for the first time disclosed to the respondent/wife and her father that the appellant had already taken divorce from Lucknow Court and now she had no relation with her in-laws and her husband and sent her away. In paragraph-10, respondent/wife has stated that on 04.10.2005, she came to Lucknow with her father and sought legal guidance from an Advocate and on 07.10.2005 filed an application for information regarding the case alleged to have been filed in the Family Court and then she came to know that Original Suit No. 32 of 2005 was registered on 06.01.2005. (18) In the plaint, respondent/wife has also asserted that the said suit was not even verified and most significantly there was no mention of giving lump sum amount to her towards permanent alimony. Further, it has been contended that her signature on the said suit were due to misrepresentation and deceit by her husband/appellant. It has been also stated that the respondent/ wife was a rural woman, not much educated, who gullibly signed the papers on the instructions of her husband as any other Indian wife in her position would do. (19) The appellant denied the case of the respondent/plaintiff in his written statement but there are certain pleadings therein, which are relevant. In para-4, he has stated as under :- (20) In para-5 of written statement, it has been averred as under :- (21) These averments clearly show that even as per appellant, respondent/wife before coming to Lucknow had been residing at the appellant/husband permanent residence i.e. village Halauni Pauri Garhwal, meaning thereby they had not been living separately for one year preceding the filing of Suit No. 32 of 2005 on 06.01.2005 as was a prerequisite for a suit under Section 13-B of the Act, 1955, and even thereafter they lived together. (22) Further, in para-11 of the written statement, while responding to the plea in para-12 of plaint regarding the suit not being maintainable on account of non-existence of jurisdictional prerequisites mentioned in Section 13-B pertaining to one year of separate living, it has been averred by the husband, as under :- (24) In para-10 of his written statement, appellant has averred that respondent has studied upto Class-10th, a fact which has been denied by her in her plaint, examination-in-chief and cross-examination. Interestingly, no suggestion/question was put to her by the appellant in her cross-examination. (25) Before considering the oral testimony and other evidence on record, in continuation of the above, we may refer to the pleadings in the earlier suit to examine as to whether the jurisdictional prerequisites for attracting Section 13 (B) of the Act, 1955 were satisfied or not. In para-3, 10, 11 and 12 of the plaint under Section 13 (B) of the Act, 1955, it was averred as under :- (26) Apart from the fact that the written statement of the appellant in Suit No. 1411 of 2005 itself contains averments/admissions that they had not been residing separately for one year or more prior to 06.01.2005, the averments in the plaint of the earlier suit quoted above, apart from being self contradictory and contrary to subsequent pleadings in written statement of subsequent suit, especially para-10 and 12 clearly establish that they had not been living separately and the jurisdictional prerequisite for moving a suit under Section 13 (B) (1) was absent. (27) In her examination-in-chief filed on affidavit, respondent/wife (P.W.1) has categorically stated that the alleged decree of divorce was the result of misrepresentation, deceit and fraud practiced by her husband taking advantage of the trust reposed by her on him, she not being much educated, being a trusting Indian wife. She has stated that by keeping her in dark, her husband got her signature on the pretext of some service related formalities of the husband. She has categorically stated that if she had even slightest information that these documents were related to divorce, then, she would never have signed them nor would have gone anywhere. (28) In her cross-examination, she (P.W.1) has categorically stated that her husband told her the necessity of her signature and her photograph on the service related documents. P.W.1, in her cross-examination, has also stated that she did not enquire anything from her husband relating to her visit to Court. This statement, in our view, is quite natural because P.W.1 herself has stated in as many words that her husband had asked her to not say anything regarding her signature and photograph to anyone and had also threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone in this regard. She has clearly stated in her cross-examination that she did not know the subject of the first suit. The subsequent suit has been filed because her husband had cheated her. She has accepted that her husband was allotted official accommodation in November, 2004 and after a few days, he had taken her and she had stayed with him for 6 or 7 months. She has further stated as under :- (37) The requirements of Section 13-B of the Act, 1955 for grant of divorce are that the parties had been living separately for a period of one year or more at the time of filing the petition and that they had not been able to live together, besides, they had mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved. As already discussed, both these ingredients were not satisfied. (38) The appellant/husband took advantage of his dominant position vis-a-vis his wife as also the trust reposed by her on account of her fiduciary relationship and betrayed the same. (39) The Family Court giving reference to the plaint and the written statement as well as circumstances of the case has rightly came to the conclusion that the appellant by playing fraud upon the Family Court as well as by keeping his wife in the dark, obtained the decree of divorce vide judgment/decree dated 08.07.2005, which was legally not sustainable. Its finding on issues no. 1 and 2 do not suffer from perversity. They are reinforced by our own reasoning. The decree dated 08.07.2005 was obtained by misrepresentation and deceit. The suit itself was not maintainable. The decree dated 08.07.2005 is null and void. Point nos. II to IV are answered accordingly. (40) For the reason aforesaid, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment/order. The Family Court has rightly set-aside the judgment/order dated 08.07.2005. (41) The First Appeal is hereby dismissed. No order as to costs. (42) Registry shall transmit the trial Court's record to the Court concerned forthwith.