I am k s kothari from ugc government of india explaining about matter of alliance university (Bangalore) which some boys and girls are facing obstacles, where i found some cheap kind of information from vbhc (Chandapura) are as follows :- During the period of madhukar angur ;- many boys and girls are went for vbhc (Chandapura) and staying, this cheap kind of boys and girls got the advantage for college is closed for more then 3 weeks and enjoying the life in vbhc (Chandapura, bangalore). Drinking, smoking, is common thing for this cheap kind of boys and girls but many seniors citizen, faculty of vbhc, member of vbhc are caught for many boys and girls for doing porn video in late night party vbhc Some private room where this boys and girls are doing sex racket business and earning lots of money, she is the leader of the groups, many parents, seniors citizen are complaining to madhukar angur about this matter then also some girls are spoiling the name of vbhc society. This girl is harassing any boys and girls and always asking money to many boys, if any boys are not gave the money then her entire groups is harassing any boys and girls in very bad manner. It’s very bad to say that about one girl name – sanya chawla from alliance university bangalore, she is very cheap kind of girl, she habit is spoiling the name of any innocent boys and girls, she is addicted to take drugs, wine, cigarates in very bad manner, she is very disgusting kind of girl, making rumors about any innocent boys and girls. Because of this girl many girls are also facing many problem are as follows:- She is harassing, torturing and spoiling the name of any boys and girl without any reason, i am the member of politician, i am extremely sorry to all, because in this generation this cheap kind of girls are doing the porn business and why should society as well as environment gave the value. I got the information from alliance university bangalore, one mamta ma’am she is handling the work in admin block of alliance university, she gave information about this girls, she is spoiling the name of any boys and girls like – creating anything (Rumors), making fight, making the gang to beat any faculty, staffs, student s without any reason. After second semester this girl (Sanya chawla) staying in vbhc bangalore where, we got many complaint from senior citizen, faculty, staffs and labour etc, they caught many times to this girl to doing porn business and earning lots of many. This girl encouraging to many boys and girls to do this porn business, she is threatening, harassing, torturing any boys and girls with the help of (Gundus bihari gang), She already got the complaint from chancellors madhukar angur then also, after this she is not listening any thing and spoiling the name of college, society as well as environment. We the people don’t want to spoil the name of any students but this girl is crosses the limits, she need some strict punishment. I am kindly requesting to all, please arrest this kind of girl as soon as possible, during the period of former chancellors madhukar angur, this girl is caught for # many times in hostel nearby library, admin, as well as baithroom also and earning the money. This girl having a lots of allegation during the during period of (July[protected], many parents also complaining about this girl but management as well as any faculty are not took any action against this girl. She is eagerly want to fight with any faculty, staffs, labour, student, without any reason, she is fully lunatic, aberrant, psycho as well as fully druken mad kind of girls. She is fully red handedly caught for # in vbhc (Chandapura) with many boys I am sharing this girls photos with (Bad conduct certificate as well as photos). Contact of this culprit : [protected] We are requesting you please check the verification of this girls and please check it the last 5years of call history against this girls, she is call girls/ # but in high profile. Many sexual relation of this girl with many boys in alliance university, her gang is handling the exposure with (Gundas bihari groups) and always she is ready to do fighting with any boys and girls. Some call is harassed by this number to any faculty also like [protected], [protected], [protected],[protected], this girls are always harassing to any boys and girls for asking money. We are requesting you about this girl, kindly focus this matter and please check this girls all private messages like facebook, linkedin, whatupps sex messages, the whole night this kind of girls is dealing with lot of boys, doing sex chat, seducing to innocent boy and earning money, in this alliance university,, one famous faculty dealing sex racket business. Govindcharya nagarajan. Kindly check all the alliance university consumer complaint box right now :- She name is sanya chawla from balliery This is wrong perception to all every time - boys are always did mistake, if when girls are did any mistake then they should be, must be deserve equal punishment, i am discussing some girls are spoiling the name of environment. Please arrest this girl as soon as possible, because college is not took any action last two years, alliance university chancellors they don't know how to took the responsibility. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)