As many as eight news channels on YouTube have been blocked on August 16, 2022, by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting (MIB) under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 , according to a press release put out by the Union government. The blocked YouTube channels had a cumulative viewership of over 114 crore, and were subscribed by over 85 lakh users, the release added.

Why it matters: The government has now blocked a total of 102 accounts since December 2021 by invoking the IT Rules, 2021. It is important to make a note of these orders as it is one of the rare occasions where the government has offered reasons behind its blocking orders.

Why were they blocked: The ministry alleged that some of these channels were responsible for spreading “hatred among religious communities in India”. It said that the content was covered within the ambit of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

“The content was observed to be completely false and sensitive from the perspective of national security and India’s friendly relations with foreign States,” read the release.

“…found to be detrimental to (the) sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State, India’s friendly relations with foreign States, and public order in the country,” the release said in conclusion.

What else was blocked: The release revealed that the MIB has also blocked a Facebook account, and two Facebook posts.

Overview of MIB’s past blocking orders: The government first exercised its powers under the IT Rules, 2021 in December 2021 when it blocked 20 YouTube channels and two news websites, saying that they were spreading fake news related to India.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event