1. Instant suit has been filed by plaintiff under section 134 , 135 , 29 & 27 of Trade Marks Act for Permanent Injunction 1/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 Restraining Infringement of Trademarks, Passing Off, Delivery
Up and Rendition of Accounts etc. against the defendant on the
facts that: (a) Plaintiff Company is part of RSPL Group of
companies, which is the proprietor of various well known
trademarks such as GHARI/GHADI Label, XPERT, VENUS,
PRO-EASE, RED CHIEF, NAMASTE INDIA etc. in the field of
cosmetics, FMGC, Footwear, Wind Energy, Real Estate, Dairy
Products etc. Plaintiff, through its predecessors originally
conceived, coined and adopted the trade mark/label XPERT in
the year 1993 in relation to dish-wash liquid, powder and bars,
cleaning preparations, washing soaps, washing powder, detergent
cakes, toiletries, bleaching preparations and substances for
laundry use, cleaning, polishing, scouring abrasive preparations,
etc and allied and cognate goods. The plaintiff intends to
reasonably extend and expand its activities under the said trade
mark/ label to other specification of goods, in view of the
extensive recognition, goodwill and reputation of the said trade
mark which has been earned through constant attention towards
impeccable quality and standards, and extensive promotions,
advertisements and sale. Plaintiff , as stated, acquired the said
trade mark with goodwill from its predecessors, details of which
are given in the plaint. (b) Plaintiff is the owner and proprietor of the trade
mark and copyright of XPERT and/or XPERT LABEL. Said
trade mark XPERT and/or XPERT LABEL is being used word
per se, with different prefixes and/or suffixes as well as in artistic
label form in composite label/ trade dress formats either CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 2/21 individually or in combination with each other. These trade dress
formats serve trade mark functions for the Plaintiff and are
trademarks of the Plaintiff. Plaintiff has been using the said
trademark/ label since the year of adoption up to present time
continuously, uninterruptedly, as an exclusive proprietor and
owner. The plaintiff is prior and senior adopter of the said trade
mark/label in relation to said goods and business. Details of
plaintiff's trademark registrations for the trademark XPERT
under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 are also given in the plaint in
tabular format and it is stated that the said list is not the
exhaustive list of registrations of subject matter trademark/label.
Several applications for registration of subject matter
trademark/label are pending at different stages and the
registration thereof shall be granted after following due
procedure. (c) Plaintiff represents its said trade mark/label in
composite label/ trade dress formats in an artistic manner
including in distinct getup, lettering style, colour scheme,
placement of words, artistic features etc. These trade dress
formats serve trade mark functions for the Plaintiff and are
trademarks of the Plaintiff. The labels bearing these marks along
with other features have a unique get up, make up, color scheme,
lettering style, arrangement etc. The said trade marks/ labels have
been undergoing constant changes over the years, in course of
trade owing to the demands of trade, aesthetics, need for constant
evolution, freshness and changing consumer taste, however, the
essential features thereof have been constant and the word
XPERT has throughout been the material and essential part of the 3/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 said trade mark/ label of the plaintiff. The art work involved in
the plaintiff's said trade mark/label are original within the
meaning of the Copyright Act, 1957 . The plaintiff is the owner
and proprietor of the copyright involved in the said trade
mark/label. (d) Plaintiff maintains the highest standards of
manufacture and trade and invests enormous amount of money
and efforts on Research & Development activities. The Plaintiff's
said goods are manufactured and traded under strict quality
specifications of a very high order, which are scrupulously
maintained. The Plaintiff has also been constantly upgrading their
facilities in the light of technological advancements. Plaintiff has
already built up handsome sales under their said trademark/ label
and achieved sales running into crores of rupees. (e) Plaintiff has been continuously advertising and
promoting its said trade mark/label through different means and
modes including through print and electronic media i.e., by way
of extensive advertisements in newspapers, magazines and
various prominent TV Channels etc. The plaintiff has also been
advertising the said trade mark/label through various other means
like hoardings, display boards, distribution of trade literature,
trade novelties, etc. The plaintiff has spent substantial amount of
money on the publicity of the said trade mark/label. Plaintiff
entered into agreements with famous and eminent stars/actresses
for promotion and advertisement of the plaintiff's said well
known trade mark/label and for brand promotion. Plaintiff's said
goods and business under the said trademark/label have very
extensive presence even on other online market places and social CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 4/21 media web-sites. In view of the above, nobody can be permitted
to use or deal with the same/similar trademark/label either as a
trade mark or in any other manner in relation to any of their
goods and business without the leave and license of the Plaintiff. (f) Defendant M/s Stepway International is engaged in
the business of manufacturing and marketing of Dish wash
liquid, Toilet Cleaner, Glass Cleaner, Surface and Floor cleaner
and allied and cognate products. Defendant has dishonestly and
malafidely adopted the word/mark RID-XPERT and label/logo

 as their trademark for the impugned goods
and started using the same. Word XPERT is forming material and
essential part of the impugned trademark of the defendant and the
same is identical/deceptively similar to the said trade mark
XPERT of the plaintiff. Further, placement of the impugned
wordmark in wavy elliptical format in the impugned label/logo
has also been copied from the plaintiff's said trademark/label
XPERT. Photographs of the impugned goods bearing the
impugned trademark were also filed alongwith the plaint. (g) Impugned trademark is identical/deceptively similar
to the said trade mark of the plaintiff. The imitation is in such
manner that not only ordinary purchasers but also the big
retailers/dealers/distributors are bound to be confused/deceived.
The impugned goods under the impugned trademark are also
same/similar/allied/cognate to the said goods of the plaintiff. The
said goods of the plaintiff are sold at the same shops where the 5/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 impugned goods of the defendant is being sold. The same class of
purchasers are involved in purchasing the goods of the plaintiff
and the defendant at the grocery shops/departmental stores and e-
commerce websites. Same trade channels are involved for the
rival products of the parties. Because of impugned business
activity of the defendant, the confusion and deception is being
ensued in the market and the trade and amongst the consumers. (h) Defendant has adopted and is using the impugned
trademark in relation to impugned goods fraudulently and with
sinister motives and out of positive greed with a view to take
advantage and to trade upon the reputation of the said trademark
of the plaintiff and further with a view to calculate deception and
confusion in the markets and to pass off their impugned goods
and business as that of the plaintiff. The defendant is the
dishonest and malafide user of the impugned trademark/ label in
relation to impugned goods and business. (i) Defendant is not the proprietor of the impugned
trademark and has adopted and is using the same without the
leave and license of the Plaintiff. The defendant has no right,
authority or liberty to use the impugned trademark in relation to
their impugned goods and business or for any other specification
of goods and business whatsoever being in violation of the
Plaintiff's rights therein. Due to the defendant's impugned
activities, plaintiff is suffering huge losses both in business and
in reputation and such losses are incapable of being assessed in
monetary terms. Unwary purchasers and trade are being deceived
as to the origin of goods and business. The defendant's gains are
plaintiff's losses. As stated, if the defendants are not restrained CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 6/21 from continuing the same, plaintiff shall continue to have
irreparable losses of business as well as the said act will injure
the goodwill of plaintiff's trademarks. 2. In written statement filed on behalf of defendant, it was
stated that the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable as plaintiff
has concealed material facts and information from the court.
Defendant, as stated, had not been using the trademark Xpert nor
the alleged Rid-Xpert logo/label is similar or identical to the
brand logo of the plaintiff i.e. XPERT, in any manner. 3. Vide order dated 06.03.2024, ad interim ex parte injunction
was granted in favour of plaintiff and the Local Commissioner
was appointed with disposal of application under Order 26 Rule
9 CPC . Application under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 CPC was
disposed off vide order dated 09.12.2024 with confirmation of
order dated 06.03.2024. 4. Following issues were framed: Issue-wise findings are as under: 5. Issue No. 1: Plaintiff, as claimed, is owner of various
trademarks including trademark/label XPERT which was adopted
by the plaintiff in year 1993. Plaintiff obtained registrations for the
trademark XPERT under nos. 1270731, 2170335 and 1077473 in
class 3. Copy right in the said trademark/label are also duly 7/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 registered in favour of plaintiff under numbers A-108898/2014 ;
A-108871/2014 ; A-67662/2004 and A-111658/2014. Plaintiff, as
stated, is the owner and proprietor of copyright involved in the said
trademark/label . Plaintiff's business under the said trademark/label
is global and plaintiff has built up handsome sales under the said
trademark/label. Sales figures of plaintiff under the said
trademark/label was brought on record in tabular format in the
plaint, in terms of which, sales figures in financial year 2021-2022
was Rs. 270,13,99,785/-. 6. Plaintiff further claimed that defendant is also engaged in the
same business of manufacturing and marketing of Dish wash liquid,
toiler cleaner, glass cleaner, surface and floor cleaner etc. and has
dishonestly and malafidely adopted the word/mark RID-XPERT

and label/logo as their trademark for the
impugned goods and started using the same. 7. Ld. counsel for plaintiff submitted that Word XPERT is
forming material and essential part of the impugned trademark of
the defendant and the same is identical/deceptively similar to the
trade mark XPERT of the plaintiff. Further, placement of the
impugned wordmark in wavy elliptical format in the impugned
label/logo has also been copied from the plaintiff's trademark/label
XPERT, which is identical/deceptively similar to the trade mark
of the plaintiff. Goods of both plaintiff and defendant are being
sold at the same shop and same class of purchasers are involved
in purchasing the goods of the plaintiff, in which circumstances, CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 8/21 confusion and deception is being ensued in the market and
amongst the consumers. Due to the defendant's impugned
activities, plaintiff, as stated, is suffering huge losses both in
business and in reputation . 8. Ld. counsel for defendant submitted that defendant had not
been using the trademark Xpert nor the alleged trademark ' Rid-
Xpert' is identical or similar to the alleged trademark of the
plaintiff. It was submitted that at the time of visit of Ld. Local
Commissioner, nothing was seized or recovered from the premises
of defendant. Ld. counsel for defendant further submitted that
though there was no similarity between the two marks but there
was no infringement of the trademark, yet defendant has stopped
using the said trademark and its products are not available nor
reflected on the website. Defendant, as submitted, was not even
intending to use the impugned trademark. On the said submission
of Ld. Counsel for defendant, considering the possibility of
settlement, parties were permitted opportunity to explore the
possibility of settlement, however, later on it was brought on
record that matter could not be settled between the parties. 9. Contention of Ld. counsel for defendant, to the extent that
no such product was found at the time of visit of LC, is found
correct in terms of the LC Report. However, report of Ld. LC
also mentions about presence of Sh. Vinod Kalra and Sh. Nikhil
Sharma, partners of M/s Stepway International, at the said
premises who themselves admitted that they were using the
logo/trademark bearing Rid-Xpert. They further informed Ld.
Local Commissioner that they operate from somewhere else and
they had already applied for the trademark of their logo which 9/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 was under process, which probably was the reason for goods of
defendant under the impugned mark not being available at the
premises where LC had visited. 10. During the course of arguments, it was pointed out by Ld.
counsel for plaintiff that defendant had applied for the trademark
of the impugned logo wherein plaintiff had also filed objections
to the proposed trademark. Same is now abandoned, as per the
status report. Ld. counsel for defendant was enquired whether
defendant was earlier using the impugned trademark and later
discontinued, to which Ld. counsel for defendant sought time to
take instructions from the defendant and inform the court but
there was no response from the side of defendant on that aspect.
However, Ld. Counsel for defendant later reiterated that
defendant had complied with the directions and was not
operating under the impugned name/mark. 11. Ld. counsel for plaintiff submitted that defendant had filed
the application dated 24.09.2019 for registration of trademark
which itself reflected the user since 15.12.2017. Ld. counsel for
plaintiff further submitted that user of the impugned product by
defendant was extracted from own website of defendant as well
as defendant's presence was noticed on the e-commerce websites
Flipkart, Indiamart, etc. and presence of defendant's mark was
also noted on the social media. Plaintiff, as submitted, had
checked Trade India.com where the impugned products were
available even after passing of interim order for injunction and as
reflected products were still in stock, thereby the contention of
defendant, as submitted, was false that they had not been using
and are not using the impugned trademark. Ld. Counsel for CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 10/21 defendant thereafter submitted that they have checked Trade
India.com and the impugned products are now not available nor
reflected on the website. 12. Though, defendant as brought on record has now stopped
using the impugned name, however, it had been
manufacturing/selling the product which was deceptively similar
to the product of the plaintiff. From the material available on
record, it is evident that the similarity between the products of
plaintiff and defendant was very striking and an ordinary person
may not be able to identify any dis-similarity and would thereby be
deceived. The trade dress of original and peculiar work, design,
placement, colour pattern, layout, design and getup of the
packaging of the product of defendant including use of work '
Xpert' was also very similar to that of plaintiff. 13. An action for infringement of trademark or more of
passing off will lie wherever the defendant's product's name, or
its intended name, is calculated to deceive, and so to divert
business from the plaintiff, or to occasion a confusion between
the two businesses. If this is not made out there is no case. The
ground is not to be limited to the date of the proceedings; the
court will have regard to the way in which the business had been
carried on or may be carried on in future, and to its not being
carried on precisely as carried on at the date of the proceedings.
Where there is probability of confusion in business, an injunction
will be granted even if the defendant adopted the name
innocently (Kerly Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names). 14. Reliance is placed upon following : (b) CS (OS) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 21/2010 titled as The Timken
Company Vs. Timken Services Pvt. Ltd . ( c) American Home Products vs. Mac Laboratories , AIR 1986
SC 137
 " when a person gets his trade mark registered, he acquires valuable
rights by reason of such registration. The registration of the trade mark
gives the goods in respect of which it is registered and if there is any
invasion of this right by any other persons using a mark which is the same
or deceptively similar to the trade mark, one can protect the trade mark by
an action for infringement in which an injunction can be obtained" . ( d) Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah, (2002) 3 SCC 65
 " an injunction has to be granted where there is probability of
confusion even though the defendant adopted the name innocently. The law
does not permit any one to carry on his business in such a way as would
persuade the customers or clients in believing that the goods or services
belong to someone else are his or are associated therewith. It does not
matter whether the latter person does so fraudulently or otherwise. The
reasons are two. Firstly, honesty and fair play are, and ought to be, the basic
policies in the world of business. Secondly, when a person adopts or intends
to adopt a name in connection with his business or services which already
belongs to someone else it results in confusion and has propensity of CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 12/21 diverting the customers and clients of someone else to himself and thereby
resulting in injury" . ( e) Punjab Tractors Ltd. v. Pramod Kumar Garg , 85 (2000)
DLT 567,
 " the criteria for determining what is likely to deceive or cause
confusion is whether the trade mark by its resemblance to another trade
mark already on the register is likely to deceive in the normal course of its
legitimate use in the trade and that the goods are such that by virtue of some
similarly, affinity or other circumstances the purchasing public will consider
them as coming from the same source if marketed under similar trade
marks. The approach has to be from a business and commercial point of
view and the test of sameness and description should be a business and
practical test. In judging the nature and composition of the goods, their
respective usages and functions and the trade channels through which they
are bought and sold are to be taken notice of" . ( f) Vardhman Properties Ltd. v. Vardhman Devlopers and
Infrastructures , 166 (2010) DLT 782,
 " the plaintiff, a real estate developer, was registered proprietor of
the trade mark of 'Vardhman' and the defendant adopted the same for
business of booking flats and real estate consultancy. This Court held that
acquiescence prima facie does not arise in such situation where there is
nothing showing the plaintiff's action, over or otherwise encouraging
defendant to continue using the mark. The Court held that once a prima
facie case in infringement actions is established, the Courts ordinarily
should not withhold relief. The Court restrained the defendant from using
the plaintiff's trade mark. ( g) Marvel Tea Estate India Ltd. v. P.M. Batra (Prop ) M/s
Gurukripa Traders, 2012 (49) PTC 82 (Del.),
 " in order to prove the case for infringement of trade mark, the
plaintiff has to show that the essential features of the registered trade mark
which has been adopted by the defendant, has been taken out from the
plaintiff's registration. Only the marks are to be compared by the Court and
in case the registration is granted in favour of the plaintiff, he acquires
valuable right by reason of the said registration". ( h) Himalaya Drug Company v. SBL Limited , 2013 (53) PTC
1 (Del.)(DB),
 " the rival marks are to be compared as a whole. Where two marks
are identical, it is not necessary for the plaintiff to prove further that the use
of defendant's mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion as the
registration shows the title of the registered proprietor and the things speaks
for themselves. If the Court finds that the defendant's mark is closely, 13/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 visually and phonetically similar then no further proof is necessary. It is not
necessary for the plaintiff to adduce evidence of actual deception in order to
prove the case of infringement". 15. The term passing off refers to the infringement of trade
mark done in such a way that the mark is not only deceptively
similar to the trade mark of that other concern but is also capable
of creating or is creating confusion for the customers which
ultimately results in damage of business of the plaintiff concern.
The fundamental principal behind the term passing off is that man
cannot sell his goods under the pretence that they are goods of
another person. Reliance is placed upon following authorities: (a) S. Saiyed Meinuddin Vs. P. Sulochna Bai

 " passing off right is wider remedy than that of infringement. This is
because the passing off doctorine operates on the general principal that no
person should sell his business as the business of another person. A person
may sell his goods or services as such in case of profession under a trading
name or style. With the lapse of time such business or services associated
with the person acquire reputation or goodwill/which becomes a property
which is protected by courts. A competitor initiating sale of goods or
services in the same name or by imitating that name results in injury to the
business of one who has the property in that name. The law does not
permit anyone to carry on his business in such a way as would persuade the
customers or clients in believing that the goods or services belonging to
someone else are his or are associated therewith". (b) CS (OS) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 21/2010 titled as The Timken
Company Vs. Timken Services Pvt. Ltd . 16. It is borne out from the record that the plaintiff is prior user
of the trademark/label " XPERT". It is also not disputed on record
that the defendant was manufacturing/selling similar product i.e.
dishwash liquid, toiler cleaner, surface and floor cleaner etc. As
already noted " to sell merchandise or carry on business under
such a name, mark, description, or otherwise in such a manner
as to mislead the public into believing that the merchandise or
business is that of another person is a wrong, actionable at the suit
of that other person. The law on this matter is designed to protect
traders against that form of unfair competition which consists in
acquiring for oneself, by means of false or misleading devices, the
benefit of the reputation already achieved by rival traders". " The
three elements of passing off action are the reputation of goods,
possibility of deception and likelihood of damages to the plaintiff
". " A competitor initiating sale of goods or services in the same
name or by imitating that name results in injury to the business of
one who has the property in that name. The law does not permit
anyone to carry on his business in such a way as would persuade
the customers or clients in believing that the goods or services
belonging to someone else are his or are associated therewith". CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 17. Case of plaintiff squarely falls in above noted criteria. There
is no answer from the side of the defendant as to why it used this
deceptively similar trade name/label/trade dress/packing when the
same was already in the market having already earned goodwill.
Hence, it can be concluded that defendant has knowingly and
intentionally infringed the impugned trademark/label/logo/trade
dress of plaintiff; passed off its goods and business as that of the
plaintiff and infringed the plaintiff's trademark. Suffice it is, if the
trademark/label/logo of defendant is likely to cause confusion in
mind of general public. Considering that defendant has stopped its
operations under the impugned trade mark, however, to protect the
rights of the plaintiff in future, plaintiff deserves grant of
permanent injunction in its favour. Issue no.1 is decided in favour of plaintiff and against the
defendant. 18. Issue no. 2 : Ld. counsel for defendant submitted that
during the visit of Ld. Local Commissioner, nothing was found at
the premises of defendant . Earlier thereto also, there was not
much of user by the defendant, therefore, no case is made out for
award of any damages to the plaintiff. 19. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff referred to the trademark
application of defendant wherein the user had been claimed since
year 2017. It was submitted that even if now there is no user by
the defendant, it cannot claim the non user, contrary to its own
submission before trademark registry with regard to user claim
since year 2017. 20. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff further submitted that the
underlying principle between 'compensatory damages' and 'punitive CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 16/21 damages' has been dealt in various cases by the Hon'ble courts and
both punitive and compensatory damages have been granted. It was
submitted that generally, the court passes 'compensatory damages'
in cases, where the plaintiff has suffered damages on account of the
infringing activities of the defendant and compensatory damages
are granted to compensate the loss suffered by the plaintiff, whereas
the 'punitive damages' is granted to deter a wrong doer from
indulging in unlawful activities. 21. The term 'damages' can be taken to be a pecuniary
compensation which may be recovered in the courts by any non-
breaching party which has suffered loss, detriment, or injury,
whether to his person, property, or rights due to the unlawful act or
omission or negligence on behalf of another party. The
jurisprudence developed on this subject defines three types of
damages in IPR regime. They are nominal damages; real damages
and extraordinary or punitive damages. Nominal damages are in
fact to recognize that the defendant has infringed the plaintiff's
rights. They are only token and have nothing to do with the actual
damages that the plaintiff might have suffered. To maintain a claim
to such damages, the plaintiff has to clear the litmus test of proving
his entitlement for injunction. 22. Real damages are the actual damages suffered by the
plaintiff on account of the wrongful acts of the defendant. These are
basically meant to set back the clock i.e. to restore the plaintiff in
nearly the same situation that existed prior to the commission of
wrongful act on the part of the defendant. This is easier said than
done. In fact, there is no 'rule of thumb' or straight jacket formula to
ascertain the exact amount of damages. This requires a scrutiny of
balance sheet, book of accounts or host of other exercise to find out.
This may require a peep into 'accounts of profit or profit of 17/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 accounts'. Still such damages may not be ascertainable with a
scientific precision or mathematical exactitude. 23. Punitive damages or exemplary damages, are the damages
assessed in order to punish the defendant for outrageous conduct
or to deter the defendant (and for that matter others too) from
engaging in similar obnoxious conduct. For entitlement to these
damages, the record must show that the conduct of the defendant
was dishonest; intention of the defendant was malafide to take
the piggy bank right upon the plaintiff's intellectual property
rights and that there is nothing to show that defendant had a
reasonable or sufficient cause for doing the wrongful act. 24. As brought on record, considerable jurisprudence has
developed in the recent past to burden the infringers with
punitive damages apart from actual damages. Hon'ble High Court
of Delhi in Koninklijke Philips N.V. & Anr. Vs. Amazestore and
a connected matter decided on 22.04.2019 in CS (Comm) 737 of
2016 has laid down some of the principles which a Court ought
to look into while granting punitive damages. While awarding
compensatory damages as claimed by the plaintiff's, the Court
awarded aggravate/exemplary damages of a total of Rs 1 Crore
over and above the compensatory damages on account of the
degree of malafide conduct of the defendants. Hon'ble High
Court has also laid down the rule of thumb that should be
followed while granting damages, which can be summarized in a
chart as under. Hon'ble Court has also clarified that the
following chart is only illustrative and is not to be read as a
statutory provision. It was observed that the Courts are free to
deviate from the same for good reason. No. Degree of malafide conduct Proportionate award 1. First-time innocent infringer Injunction 2. First-time knowing infringer Injunction + Partial
 Costs 3. Repeated knowing infringer which Injunction + Costs +
 causes minor impact t the plaintiff Partial damages 4. Repeated knowing infringer which Injunction + Costs +
 causes a major impact to the plaintiff Compensatory
 damages 5. Infringement which was deliberate Injunction + Costs +
 and calculated (Gangster/scam/ Aggravated damages
 mafia) + wilful contempt of court (Compensatory +
 additional damages) 25. From the material placed on record by the plaintiff and in
the light of the factual and legal submissions as discussed above,
there is substantial force in the contention of Ld. Counsel for
plaintiff that the defendant has taken advantage of the trademark,
goodwill and popularity of the plaintiff and has enriched itself at
the plaintiff's cost and expenses. There was every likelihood that
the customer might have been mis-guided with user of the
trademark by defendant and the services being provided by
plaintiff might have resulted in the dilution of the goodwill of the
plaintiff, though no such figures are available on record.
Nevertheless, it is also not the case for award of Punitive damages
or exemplary damages to punish the defendant for outrageous
conduct or to deter the defendant from engaging in similar
conduct. Although at the first instance, it was brought on record
that defendant has stopped the operations under the impugned
trade mark, nevertheless, by that time plaintiff had already
incurred expenses for filing of the case. Local Commissioner was 19/21 CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024
 appointed and fees of Rs. 1,00,000/- was incurred by plaintiff,
present suit was filed on 05.03.2024 and total number of about 12
hearings have taken place in the matter. Taking a reasonable
assessment of the nature of infringement indulged into by
defendant, in the opinion of the court, plaintiff is entitled to
nominal damages/litigation cost. Accordingly, plaintiff is awarded
sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two lacs only) as damages/litigation
cost. 26. Relief (Issue no. 3) : The suit is decreed with cumulative
amount of damages and litigation cost in sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rs.
Two Lacs only). If the payment towards decreetal amount is not
cleared within one month, thereafter decreetal amount shall be
payable alongwith interest @ 9 % p.a. till realization. 27. Further, defendant by itself as also through its individual
proprietors, partners, directors, agents, representatives, distributors,
assigns, heirs, successors, stockists and all others acting for and on
its behalf is restrained from soliciting, networking, manufacturing,
marketing. using, selling, displaying, advertising or by any other
mode or manner (including through any online medium/
websites/platforms/ social media) dealing in or using the impugned
word/mark RID-XPERT and label/logo Rid-Xpert or other
trademark/label/logo identical with and/or deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's said trademark/label XPERT in relation to its impugned
goods and business of manufacturing and marketing of Dish wash
liquid, Toilet Cleaner, Glass Cleaner, Surface and Floor cleaner and
allied and cognate products and/ or from doing any other acts or
deeds, amounting to Infringement of the plaintiff's registered CS (Comm) No. : 114/2024 20/21 Trademark/labels and Passing off its goods as that of the plaintiff . 28. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to
record room after completion of necessary formalities.