SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scammed by a ghost teaching institute
DATE: 2024-08-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1eu9a6d/scammed_by_a_ghost_teaching_institute/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, I am an Indian who lives in the middle east. I have been having difficulty finding jobs in the UAE but a lot my peers suggested me to get into teaching. The thing about becoming a teacher is that you need to have a degree or a certification in teaching. Came across this institute called IITT- institute of international teachers training, based in Kolkata for certification courses via distance learning. Was massively impressed by the amount of certification courses they offered and has a discount running. Spoke to the sales lady and deposited 25% of the fee they were asking for via a razrpay payment link which didn't use the two step authentication link per my bank, but simply debited money out of my account. 

I then received the terms and conditions agreement i was supposed to sign, that's when things started falling apart. The document was full of grammatical errors and punctuation errors. I asked the sales lady about this, and she seemed to not be able to see any errors in the document whatsoever. Thats when I started having second thoughts about institute.

 I went to their accreditation page, and contacted every single one of their accreditation bodies that were in the UK, Malaysia, etc and all of them reverted back saying they have not accredited this institute. The only one that said that the IITT are accredited by them is a bogus london college of teaching- funnily enough- whose headquarters are in Kolkata as well and have a ghost address in London. 

I confronted these IITT people and they doubled down with their claims and started giving me fake poorly doctored certificates as ' proof' of their accreditation. 
The institute is a ghost building in kolkata- that looks like an abandoned house. 
I've been asking them for a refund of my money and they kept making excuses. First asked me for my passport copy (not sure why) , then asked my Indian address which I didn't have, and then asked for my Indian bank account number, which I don't have.

Now they are making excuses saying they can't really refund via forex and would transfer it only in an Indian bank account. The kind of lies, manipulation, pushiness and false promises they've done is mind blowing. 

Please advise me on how can I best approach this situation and what channels can I employ to get my refund back, create awareness about this institute and get them penalised for making a fool out of people with their lies. 

TLDR- got scammed by a ghost institute in Kolkata claiming to be accredited by teaching authorities internationally and now I was my money back and raise awareness about it.