SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need advice on planning a bike trip and/or trek from Delhi.
DATE: 2019-06-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/bycmt9/need_advice_on_planning_a_bike_trip_andor_trek/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone! I have about 8-9 days of vacation towards the end of June and i'm trying to go to the mountains from Delhi. I've almost decided that the most fun thing to do would be to rent a bike and roam around. I've driven cars in the mountains plenty and bikes as well (but bikes not for longer than 6 hours at a stretch). 

My total budget is Rs. 25,000 at most. Ideally 15,000-20,000 though. That would have to cater for the bike, the petrol, the food, the lodging etc. 

These are the things on my mind:
1) Which bike should I rent? I will be carrying a 60 liter backpack with me. I like the Himalayan but it might be out of my budget. I don't want my ass to hurt all night from riding all day (no homo). 

2) Where should I get the bike from? (as in which operator / store / website - I plan to start riding from delhi itself to get a feel of the machine). Preferably i'd like to physically go and inspect a bike before I book it. What are the things I should check? 

3) Where can I go that's not already overcrowded? 

4) I have a tent and sleeping bag which I have used on previous treks (though I don't have the foam mattress - will a roll up yoga mat do the trick?), if possible i'd like to be able to go to places and pitch my own tent. But this is certainly not necessary. 

5) I've heard that there are monasteries where one can stay for cheap, that would be cool, if there are some on the way. 

I initially wanted to go on a small group trek but the only decent website / service I can find which has treks available on the dates i'm free, takes payment online and doesn't look like a scam is indiahikes.com. But their groups are 25-30 people large and I don't think i'd enjoy that. If I like a place I would want to sit there for as long as I desire. I don't mind going completely alone on a trek either, where can I find a semi decent itinerary for a solo trek? Obviously i'd have to reach a certain place each night where I can hire a room somewhere or rent a tent (kek).

What have your experiences been like? What's the right way to spend this time and money? I always wanted to go to Roopkund and now that I finally have the time, there's a ban on that trek from the Uttarakhand High Court because we keep littering and spoiling all that is good in this world.