Thousands of Android apps — including those from Samsung and Disney — bypass the OS’s permission system, and gather precise location data and phone identifiers without users’ consent, a study has revealed. Researchers from the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI) discovered around 1,325 apps that gather data even if users explicitly deny them permissions to do so. ICSI’s Serge Egelman had presented the findings of their study at FTC’s PrivacyCon in June. MediaNama has reached out to Google for comment and will update this story once they reply.

“Fundamentally, consumers have very few tools and cues that they can use to reasonably control their privacy and make decisions about it … If app developers can just circumvent the system, then asking consumers for permission is relatively meaningless.” — Serge Egelman of ICSI to CNET

The researchers found that when a user denies, for instance, location permission to one app, it might not be enough. Another app that has the permission can still share bits of users’ personal data with the first app, or store it locally on the phone where even potentially malicious apps could read it. They found that while the two apps might not be directly related in any way, they’re built using the same software development kit (SDK), and thus can “talk” to each other. The researchers designed a “pipeline” to discover vulnerabilities in the Android permission system and tested this pipeline on more than 88,000 apps.

Egelman told CNET that he had written to Google in September 2018, highlighting the findings of this study, and Google had said that it would address these issues in Android Q, which is expected to release this year. But here is the problem: not all Android devices will get the Android Q update. In fact, barring Google’s own Pixel devices and a few Android One devices, very few other Android phones would get the update this year. Apart from that, certain older phones may not receive the update ever — which means that for several Android users, these security issues may never be fixed.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event