Meta Platforms, the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, reportedly made billions of dollars from advertisements linked to scams and banned goods, according to internal company documents reviewed by Reuters .

The documents show that Meta estimated that about 10% of its 2024 revenue, roughly $16 billion, came from scam and illegal ads, including fraudulent e-commerce offers, fake investment schemes, and the sale of restricted medical products. The company also estimated that users were exposed to around 15 billion scam ads every day across its platforms.

Meta’s internal systems flagged many of these ads as “high-risk”, but the company only bans advertisers when it is 95% certain they are committing fraud. For suspected but unconfirmed fraudsters, Meta reportedly charges higher ad rates as a “penalty”, allowing them to continue earning revenue.

In a statement to Reuters, Meta spokesman Andy Stone said the documents “present a selective view that distorts Meta’s approach to fraud and scams”. He added that the internal estimate of 10.1% of its 2024 revenue from scams was “rough and overly-inclusive”, and that later assessments showed the real figure was lower.

Stone further said, “We aggressively fight fraud and scams because people on our platforms don’t want this content, legitimate advertisers don’t want it and we don’t want it either.” He also claimed that over the past 18 months, user reports of scam ads dropped by 58% and that in 2025 alone, Meta removed more than 134 million scam ads.

The revelations come as regulators in the US and UK are investigating Meta’s role in online fraud. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is reportedly examining Meta for running financial scam ads.

Meanwhile, a British regulator found the company’s platforms were involved in 54% of all payment-related scam losses in 2023: more than all other social platforms combined.

According to Reuters, internal strategy documents show Meta’s leadership weighed the cost of cracking down on scams against potential financial losses. For context, a 2025 document notes the company aims to cut its scam ads-related revenue rom 10.1% in 2024, to 7.3% by the end of 2025, and further down to 6% by 2026.

However, Meta had placed “revenue guardrails” on enforcement teams, limiting them from taking action against suspect advertisers that could cost more than 0.15% of total company revenue, or about $135 million in the first half of 2025.

Notably, an internal review in April 2025 admitted that “it is easier to advertise scams on Meta platforms than Google”.

Other internal slides revealed that Meta expected regulatory fines of up to $1 billion, but considered that smaller than the $3.5 billion it earns every six months from “high-risk” scam ads which impersonate brands, public figures, etc.

Documents from 2022 and 2023 show that Meta’s focus on AI and virtual reality projects led to staff cuts in safety teams, reducing resources available for scam detection.

One internal note said scam ads were once viewed as a “low severity problem”: seen mainly as a poor user experience rather than a serious threat.

Meta also ignored or wrongly rejected 96% of user reports about scams in 2023, according to internal documents. Interestingly, the company later aimed to bring this figure down to 75%.

Reuters cited a real-life case showing how scammers exploit Meta’s platforms. To explain, hackers took over the Facebook account of a Royal Canadian Air Force recruiter and used it to promote a fake cryptocurrency scheme.

Despite over 100 reports from users, Meta took around more than a month to remove the account, during which multiple victims lost over $45,000.

Apart from paid ads, Meta users also face 22 billion “organic scams” daily, such as fake dating profiles, fraudulent Marketplace listings, and misleading medical cure claims.

Interestingly, some scams flagged by Singapore police in 2024 were found to violate “the spirit” but not the “letter” of Meta’s policies, highlighting loopholes in enforcement.

Furthermore, in one striking case, Meta staff found $250,000 worth of crypto scam ads impersonating Canada’s Prime Minister Mark Carney, but gaps in the company’s internal policies would not flag such activity.

To draw attention to persistent offenders, an employee began publishing a weekly internal list in early 2025 highlighting the “Scammiest Scammer”: in essence an advertiser with the most user complaints in a particular week. Yet Reuters found that some accounts listed remained active months later.

As mentioned earlier, Meta introduced “penalty bids”: a system where suspected scammers pay more to run ads. While intended to deter fraud, the system also allowed Meta to profit from suspicious advertisers.

Notably, Meta’s own research estimates that its platforms are involved in a third of all successful scams in the US, making it a major player in the global fraud economy.

However, despite ongoing regulatory scrutiny, the company continues to finely balance between ad revenue and enforcement: an aspect at the heart of its multibillion-dollar business.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event