Judgment pronounced through Video Conference. The original
 application is disposed of with directions vide separate Judgment. Pending
 interlocutory application, if any, shall stands disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, J.M.

 Sd/- Based on the News item in Dinamalar Tamil Newspaper,
 Chennai Edition dated 07.08.2020," Puthagaram Thangal
 Lake is endangered to disappear in maps". With 1. The Principal Secretary to Government,
 Public Works Department,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George,
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 2. The Additional Chief Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
 Revenue and Disaster Management Department,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 009. 3. The Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
 Department of Environment,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George,
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 4. Additional Chief Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
 Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort. George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 5. The Chairman,
 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board,
 No. 76, Anna Salai, Guindy,
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 032. 6. The District Collector,
 Chennai District,
 District Collectorate Office,
 No. 62, Rajaji Salai, 4th Floor,
 Chennai - 600 001. 7. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board,
 Rep. by its Managing Director,
 No.1, Pumping station Road,
 Chintadripet, Chennai -600- 031. 8. Greater Chennai Corporation,
 Rep. by its Commissioner,
 Ripon Building,
 Chennai 600 003. HON'BLE Mr. JUSTICE K. RAMAKRISHNAN, JUDICIAL MEMBER

 HON'BLE Dr. SATYAGOPAL KORLAPATI, EXPERT MEMBER

Whether the Judgment is allowed to be published on the Internet - Yes. Whether the Judgment is to be published in the All India NGT Reporter - Yes. JUDGMENT 1. The above case was Suo Motu registered by this Tribunal on the basis of

 the news paper report published in Dinamalar Chennai City Supplement
 Edition dated, 07.08.2020 under the caption "tiuglj;jpy; ,Ue;J
 mopAk; mghaj;jpy; Gj;jfuk; jhq;fy; Vup" (PuthagaramThangal
 Lake is endangered to disappear in maps). 2. It was alleged in the newspaper report that Puthagaram Thangal Lake

 was having an extent of 42.36 acres - near Highways road at 24th Ward,
 Puthagaram, Madhavaram Zone, Chennai. 3. Most of the area of the lake and its feeder canals have been encroached by

 private concerns and become housing plots un-authorisedely and some of
 the people in that locality who had encroached and reduced the area had
 created false documents and with the help of the local politicians and the
 Revenue Department, converted the same into housing plots and sold
 them for higher prices. Though there was a direction given by the
 Hon‟ble High court of Madras to remove the encroachment, no effective
 steps have been taken. Though some steps were taken to remove the
 encroachment by demolishing the unauthorisedly constructed houses,
 but later due to the stay order granted by the Hon‟ble High Court of
 Madras, further steps have not been taken after the declaration of
 assembly election. 4. The Chennai Metro Water Supply Sewerage Board also encroached the

 lake area and built a Sewage Treatment Plant. Later, it has become a
 dumping place for solid wastes and also for discharging untreated
 sewage water. Unless certain steps were taken to rejuvenate this lake, it
 was likely to be vanished from the records and on ground as well. 5. After reiterating the responsibility of the State to protect the water body

 and environment as contemplated under Article 48 (A) of the
 Constitution of India and reiterated by the Hon‟ble Apex Court, as well
 as various High Courts and also the National Green Tribunal, including
 Hon‟ble High Court of Madras, Since this Tribunal was satisfied that
 there arose a substantial question of environment, the matter was
 admitted. 6. On 17.08.2020, it was informed by the Government Pleader that this area

 falls within the jurisdiction of Thiruvallur District, originally impleaded
 as 6th respondent was substituted by the District Collector, Thiruvallur
 District instead of the District Collector, Chennai District as per order 4 dated 17.08.2020. 7. Thereafter, this Tribunal had appointed Joint committee consisting of 1)

 The District Collector, Thiruvallur District or a Senior Officer not below
 the rank of Assistant Collector or Sub Divisional Magistrate deputed by
 the District Collector 2) Superintending Engineer of Public Works
 Department and Water Resources Organisation, who is in charge of that
 area, 3) Senior Officer from Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply &
 Sewerage Board 4) Commissioner or a Senior Officer designated by the
 Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, and 5) Senior Officer
 from the Chairman Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board as deputed
 by its Chairman to inspect the area in question and submit a factual as
 well as action taken report if there was any violation found. 8. The committee was directed to ascertain: 9. The Public Works Department and Water Resources Department was

 designated as the nodal agency for co-ordination and for providing all
 necessary logistics for this purpose. 10. The matter was adjourned for appearance of parties, completion of

 pleadings and also for consideration of reports. Thereafter, the matter
 has been adjourned from time to time by successive notifications. The
 matter was taken up on 24.02.2021 and on that day, this Tribunal had
 considered the report submitted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control
 Board signed by the officer on 23.02.2021, received on 24.02.2021and
 extracted in Para (5) of the order. It was mentioned in that report that the
 area was inspected on 10.12.2020 by the Joint Committee and found that
 the lake was bifurcated by radial Chennai by - pass road and it was
 informed by the Public Works Department officials that there was no
 inflow channel into the lake. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply 6 and Sewerage Board‟s sewage pumping station is located adjacent to the
 western side lake on the eastern side. It is for the Public Works
 Department officials to ascertain the encroachment details in the lake.
 Debris and solid wastes were found in the rear side of the tank bund
 along the service road. Subsequently, the Greater Chennai Corporation,
 the Madhavarm Zonal officials had removed the debris and assured to
 initiate action against the persons who were responsible for the same. 11. The water samples were collected from the lake on10.12.2020 and

 29.01.2021 and from the analysis report, it was revealed that heavy
 metals and total coli form were within the standard prescribed for inland
 surface water and it was found that the value of Faecal Coliform and E-
 coli were less than <2MPN/100 ml and the BOD value varied in the range
 of 5-9 mg/l. The water was meeting the standard prescribed for drinking
 water source with conventional treatment followed by disinfection
 (Clause C) except for the tolerance limit of BOD. 12. On various occasions, the matter was adjourned at the request of the State

 officials for filing further Joint committee report and the action taken
 report. This Tribunal had expressed its dissatisfaction in the manner in
 which such issues were considered by the officials and granted time to
 file the reports. This Tribunal also expressed its displeasure for granting
 time, but directed the Joint Committee members and the District Collector
 and others who were responsible for filing the respective action taken
 report to appear before this Tribunal to show cause as to why action
 should not be taken against them for non-compliance of the direction
 issued by this Tribunal as contemplated under Section 25 , 26 and 28 of the
 National Green Tribunal, Act 2010. 13. The matter was taken upon for 11.02.2022 for consideration of report. On

 11.02.2022, this Tribunal had considered the report submitted by the
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board dated
 03.02.2022, e-filed on 05.02.2022 and extracted in Para (5) of the order
 wherein, they have mentioned about the action taken from their side as
 follows:- Sd/- ......................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 Sd/- ........................................E.M.
 (Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati)
 O.A. No.150/2020 (SZ)
 15th July 2022. Sr. 24