Petitioners have preferred this writ petition to seek issuance of a writ of mandamus or direction upon the respondents not to interfere in the peaceful marital life of the petitioners. A brief reference to the factual aspects would suffice. The petitioner no. 1 is stated to be wife of the petitioner no. 2. Her date of birth is 17th September, 1986, whereas date of birth of the petitioner no. 2 is 28th February, 1985. Petitioner no. 1 earned her Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.) degree in the year 2010. The petitioner no. 2 did his Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering. He stood first in his examination. Both the petitioners are thus major. It is stated that they were well acquainted with each other and, therefore, in cool mind, without there being any influence of any one, keeping in mind their life partner and in order to lead matrimonial life, they decided to marry. The parents of both the petitioners had objection about their marriage, presumably on the ground that they are from different caste, therefore, they decided and accordingly got their marriage performed on 04th June, 2013 at Arya Samaj Mandir, Arya Nagar, Ghaziabad. They have brought on record the marriage certificate issued by the Arya Samaj Mandir, Arya Nagar, Ghaziabad as Annexure-2 to the writ petition. It is stated that the petitioners also moved an application before the Registrar, Hindu Marriage-V, Ghaziabad for registration of their marriage. Registrar, Hindu Marriage-V, Ghaziabad has also issued a marriage registration certificate dated 04th June, 2013, which has been brought on record as Annexure-4 to the writ petition. It is alleged by the petitioners that respondent no. 4, father of the petitioner no. 1, influenced the Senior Superintendent of Police, Hapur, the respondent no. 2, for harassment/torture of the petitioners, on account of which the police personnel of Police Station Hapur came to the petitioners' house and harassed them as well as family members of the petitioner no. 2. Thereupon, both the petitioners approached the respondent no. 2 and made a complaint against the local police. However, in spite of the said complaint made to the respondent no. 2, local police again came at the house of the petitioners and threatened them. Therefore, having no other remedy, the petitioners have approached this Court for a direction upon the respondents not to interfere in the peaceful marital life of the petitioners. The principal ground of the writ petition is violation of their fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution. In this Court, large numbers of the writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India are filed on somewhat similar facts and for similar reliefs. Keeping in view huge number of cases every day, Hon'ble the Chief Justice of this Court has assigned a separate jurisdiction to a Single Judge Bench under the caption of "couple matters". The common grievance of the petitioners in these writ petitions is that they are major and they wish to live with each other, but they are being subjected to harassment by the local police at the behest of their unwilling parents. In these petitions, some of the petitioners claim that they have married in accordance with their religion/faith. There are cases of inter-religion marriages also. In some cases, petitioners also file marriage certificates duly issued by the Registrar (Marriage) to establish that they are legally wedded couple. This Court is not concerned whether marriage in such cases is valid or not. These writ petitions cannot be treated as a short cut for a certificate of this Court regarding legality of marriage of the petitioners. But an important issue raised in these petitions is regarding the fundamental rights of the petitioners guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Can this Court be a silent spectator, when its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution is invoked seeking its protection for personal liberty and to live with human dignity by a young couple, whose only fault is that they have crossed the bridge of caste and religion? This Court takes divergent views and different nature of reliefs are granted by the different Benches. I find that there is no authoritative pronouncement by this court on this issue but the Supreme Court has considered this issue and has laid down the law in no uncertain terms. In the case of Gian Devi v. The Superintendent, Nari Niketan, Delhi and others, (1976) 3 SCC 234, a three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court has held that if a girl is major then no fetter can be placed upon her choice of the person with whom she is to stay nor any restriction can be imposed regarding the place where she should stay. The Supreme Court speaking through Justice H. R. Khanna (as His Lordship then was) further observed that relatives can also have no right to interfere in such matter. It is enough to extract relevant part of the judgment which reads as under: In the case of Lata Singh v. State of U.P. and another , reported in (2006) 5 SCC 475, the Court has welcomed the inter-caste marriages and has noted that the caste system is a curse on the nation and once a person becomes major, he or she can marry whosoever he or she likes, and if parents of such boy or girl do not approve of such inter-caste marriage, they can simply cut-off social relations with son or daughter, but they cannot give threats or commit or instigate acts of violence. In the said case, the Supreme Court has issued a general direction to the administration/ police authorities throughout the country to see that if any boy or girl, who is a major, undergoes inter-caste or inter-religion marriage, with a woman or man, who is a major, they should not be harassed by anyone nor subjected to threats or acts of violence. The relevant part of such judgment is extracted below: (emphasis supplied by me)
 

 
	The judgment of Lata Singh (supra) was approved by a three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in the case of S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal and another , (2010) 5 SCC 600, and it was held that a major girl is free to marry anyone she likes or "live with anyone she likes". In such a situation, the Court further held that no offence was committed by any of the accused and the whole criminal case in question was held to be abuse of the process of the Court. The Court commenting on the issue of morality in such cases aptly observed as under: In the case of Bhagwan Dass v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2011) 6 SCC 396, the Supreme Court has taken judicial notice of the honour killings in many parts of the country, particularly in Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Court has strongly condemned honor killings in such situation and has held that such act will be treated within the category of rarest of rare cases deserving death punishment. Paragraphs-28 and 29 of Bhagwan Dass (supra) read as under: ( emphasis supplied )
 

 
	The Supreme Court in the case of D. Velusamy v. D. Patchaiammal , reported in (2010) 10 SCC 469, has considered the live-in relationship or a relationship in the nature of marriage and laid down some ingredients, which can be treated like a common law marriage. The relevant paragraph of the judgment reads as under: The above law was in respect of ''live-in relationship', therefore, in the present context the requirement of (d) would not be applicable. Similar view has also been taken by the different Division Benches of this Court. In the case of Tanushree Upadhyay @ Tanushree Tripathi and another Vs. State Of U.P. and others, Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 59575 of 2007, decided on 04th December, 2007 a Bench of Hon'ble Dr. Justice B.S. Chauhan (as His Lordship then was) and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Arun Tandon, has passed the following order: In the case of Bharti Arora and another v. State of U.P. & others, Writ-C No. 53307 of 2012, decided on 11th October, 2012, another Division Bench of this Court comprising Hon'ble Mr. Justice Amitava Lala, Acting Chief Justice (as His Lordship then was) and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Ashok Srivastava, has passed the following order: The anguish expressed by the Supreme Court in the case of Bhagwan Dass (supra) is a matter of serious concern for our democratic polity. Organizing Khaps on the caste basis and implementing their decisions instantly will turn the democracy into mobocracy. It will turn India into a banana republic. As noticed by the Supreme Court, honor killing has become commonplace in Western Uttar Pradesh. If the tendency to overreach the rule of law is not nipped in the bud, it would corrode the very foundation of our Constitution on which its grand edifice rests. The consequences are fraught with danger of collapse of our institutions and rule of law that will lead to anarchy. It is axiomatic that India is much maligned for its caste system but a fleeting look at history will reveal that racial/caste discrimination was in existence in most of the countries and culture in one or the other forms. The word ''caste' is derived from the Spanish and Portuguese word ''Casta'. Oxford dictionary defines it to mean "Race, lineage or breed". In all the ancient societies, like in Rome, people were classified according to their distinct functions. According to Social Scientist Damezil, Roman society was broadly comprised of three classes: (1) Priestly (Like Brahmins in India); (2) people associated with Army (Kshatriyas); and (3) People who were engaged in agriculture, production, craft, and commerce. In Japan also, such positions were inherited. At the top were Kuge. The Emperors belonged to this class. Rest of the people were divided in four classes: (1) Sumrai (Associated with Arms); (2) Peasants; (3) Craftsmen; and (4) Merchants. These classes were hierarchal and endogamous. The merchants were treated lowest because they had no contribution in production. The Sumerai had authority to kill any member of lower class if they show any disrespect to them. In France also there was an untouchable caste, Cagots. They were treated as inferior caste. The Cagots are also found in some parts of Spain. In Africa also, in some parts social positions are inherited and they are hierarchical. Some castes are treated like untouchable and are shunned while the others are respected and are endogamous. In Nigeria if a person is born in Osu caste, he is treated as out caste and ostracized. He has limited opportunities in spite of his merit and ability. West Africans artisans have suffered similar treatment. They are looked upon as inferior, despised by some people, their occupation is hereditary and they are deprived of all political power. Similar class divisions on the ethnic basis exist in other African countries. The Mande societies in Ivory costa, Ghana and neighboring countries have social stratification system. The Jonow are descendants of slaves. Griots, Forgenorons, and Cordonniers are other castes based on similar basis. The United States, a land of freedom and liberty, has a long history of discrimination on the ground of colour and creed. Their society was segregated on the basis of the colour. Dr. Martin Luther King, an ardent follower of Mahatma Gandhi, had a long journey for America to be a country for the people of all colour and creed. He led a a historical march, like Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi March, on 28th August, 1963 to Washington. On the said date, in response to his call 2,50,000 people made peaceful and orderly march to Lincoln Memorial, Washington. In the American history, it was the largest demonstration but Dr. Martin Luther King did not call it struggle against the inequality or oppression against the Government, he called it a pilgrimage. He cautioned his followers that pilgrimage will be long and arduous and to maintain high moral ground it was necessary to observe non-violence. He articulated it as "I have a dream". His famous speech on that day at Lincoln Memorial placed him in the rank of Lincoln and Franklin. Said historical march led to enactment of the Civil Right Act, 1964, Voting Right Act, 1965 and Fair Housing Act, 1968. For the first time, after more than a hundred and fifty years of independence, it ended discrimination against the racial, ethnic, rational, religious minorities and women. They got the voting right and it ended racial segregation in schools, workplace and provided facilities that served the general public. Relevant it would be to mention that in his famous speech "I have a dream", there was not a single word of hatred against the whites. No complaint but an earnest desire which he wanted to send across the world was that everyone is born equal. A chronological horizon of world history would reveal that most of the countries mentioned above, except a few African Countries, have successfully erased their blot of racial and other forms of discrimination with the help of better education, scientific advancement, scientific temper and humanism. It is matter of great concern and shame that our society is still resisting the change which has swept across the world in the era of globalization. The Supreme Court, half a century ago, in the case of V.V. Giri v. D. Suri Dora and others , AIR 1959 SC 1318, speaking through Justice Gajendragadkar (as His Lordship then was) lamented and observed as under: The Supreme Court has followed said decision recently in Rameshbhai Dabhai Naika V. State Of Gujrat and others, (2012) 3 SCC 400. I am not oblivious of the fact that I have digressed a little from the issue but it is in the fond hope that our generation will see a egalitarian and casteless society. Such digression is under permissible limits as aptly observed by Justice Krishna Iyer (as his Lordship then was) in his illuminating judgement in Msr. Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and another , (1978) 1 SCC 248, in following terms: Now coming back to the case in hand, the principle of law that could be deduced from the above decisions is that if petitioners are major, they have unfettered right to choice of a person with whom they want to live. The Courts are not concerned whether their marriage is solemnized or not, as held by the Supreme Court in Gian Devi (supra) that if a girl has attained the age of majority, no one including her parents have right to object against her preference. In Bhagwan Dass (supra) the Supreme Court has issued a direction to circulate the copy of the judgment to the Registrars General/ Registrars of all the High Courts with a further direction to circulate the same to all the Judges of the Courts including Sessions Judges/ Additional Sessions Judges, and also to the Chief Secretaries, Home Secretaries, Directors General of Police of all the States to circulate the said judgment to all the Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police of their States for their information. It is distressing to note that in spite of the said direction of the Supreme Court, the Police is ignoring the law and the direction issued to them by the Apex Court. Thus, if any police officer harasses young couple, who are major and are living together voluntarily, such Police officer will be at the risk of disobeying the judgment of the Supreme Court in Bhagwan Dass (supra). Therefore, if a complaint is made by the parents/relatives against a boy or a girl, the police officers shall have a limited role in such matter, under the law, that they can verify their age and whether they have decided to live together voluntarily. If they are educated and they produce their educational and other certificates, admissible under the law, from which it is evident that they have attained the majority and they are living with their free will then no police officer shall take any coercive action against them. If they do not have any documentary proof regarding their age and they come from the rural background and are illiterate/ semi-literate, the police officer can subject such boy or the girl to ossification test to verify their correct age, and he can also follow the other procedure permissible under the law. If the police officer is satisfied that they are major then he has no authority to interfere with the living of the boy or girl and any such complaint made against the boy or girl by the parents should be dealt with in accordance with law. After careful consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the view that both the petitioners are major and they are living with their free will. They are present in the Court. Therefore, a direction needs to be issued to respondents not to interfere in their peaceful living. Accordingly it is issued. The writ petition is allowed. No order as to costs. Order Date:-11th November, 2013. SKT/- Hon'ble Pradeep Kumar Singh Baghel,J. The writ petition is allowed. For order, see my order of the date passed on the separate sheets (thirteen pages). Dt. 11.11.2013. SKT/-