AS PER : AJAY PRATAP SINGH, MEMBER [JUDICIAL]
 [JUDIC 1. By way of present OA under Section 19 of Administrative
Tribunal, Act 1985 the applicant has claimed following main relief
 relief(s) (as
extracted from the OA) reads as under: 2. Briefly stated facts as stated in the OA that applicant is a
GDS, Branch Post Master of Mohabatpur, Branch Post Office in account
with Sherghati sub-Post
 Post office, placed on Put-ff-Duty
 Put Duty vide order dated
13.11.2020 (Annexure - A/1) and approved under Rule 12 of GDS
(Conduct & Engagement) Rules, 2020 ((in ). Disciplinary
 in short Rules 2020). proceedings initiated for defalcation of money ₹17,78,684/- through
I.P.P.B. transaction. The FIR registered with P.S. Sherghati Polic Station on
01.12.2020 and criminal case is pending. Applicant filed representation
before respondent No.3 and no response till date. 3. Per contra respondents have filed written statement stating
that during period from 18.12.2019 to 03.11.2020 received deposits from
customers ₹26,48,490 (Rs. Twenty six lacs forty eight thousand four
hundred & ni
 ninety
 nety only) in various accounts credited ₹8,69,806
 8,69,806 (Rs. Eight
lacs sixty nine thousand eight hundred and six only) through AEPS to
customers. The balance amount ₹17,78,684/- ₹17,78,684/ (Rs. Seventeen lacs seventy
eight thousand six hundred & eighty four only) was with applicant and she
was directed to produce and unable to produce and also misappropriate
₹25,000/
₹25,000/- in IPPB deposit and ₹38,250/- ₹38,250/ in various Sukanya Samridhi
Account. Applicant thereafter was placed under Put
 Put-off-Duty
 Duty and FIR was
lodged under FIR No.603 of 2020 dated 01.12.2020 and order for payment
of 25% ex
 ex-gratia
 gratia issued, granted and paid. 4. Rejoinder has been filed denying averments made in written
statement and receiving payment of 25% of compensation as ex
 ex-gratia
 gratia
payment. SUBMISSIONS 5. Shri S.K. Tiwary, learned
 rned counsel for applicant contended
that:- Sub Rule (1)(a) of Rule 12 of Rules 2020 and
 approved on 18.11.2020 by competent authority till
 date either departmental proceedings nor criminal case
 has been finalized and for no fault of applicant made to
 suffer. since longtime criminal case and enquiry pending and
 representation for revoking POD not considered. 6. Smt. A.K. Singh, learned Addl. CGSC for respondents
 respondents
contended that: ₹18,41,934/ (Rs. Eighteen lacs forty one
 thousands and nine hundred and thirty four only) and
 other verification of record going on may exceed
 involvement. (ii) Allegation against applicant is misappropriating public
 funds with co-employee
 employee Rajiv Nayan, GDS BPM,
 Dariaura BO in a/c Sherghati. So also applicant
 transferred Government funds to com-employee
 com employee and
 prima-facie
 facie involvement with
 w criminal conspiracy. (iii) Criminal case also pending for embezzlement of public
 funds, there is prima-facie
 prima facie involvement and statutory
 suspension cannot be revoked in grave case of
 misconduct. 7. This Tribunal heard learned counsel for the parties and
perused the material on record and precedents. 8. Short issue for consideration is:- 9. Relevant Rule 12 of Rules 2020 for ready reference reads as:- [Emphasis Supplied]
 [Sub-Rules
 Rules (2) to (6) are omitted as being not germane for the
 purposes]

(B) (i) Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Orissa versus
 Bimal Kumar Mohanty , (1994) 4 SCC 126 was seisin with
 case wherein employee was suspended due to pendency of
 criminal case and investigation was on. Their Lordships,
 seisin with similar question "whether the Tribunal was
 justified by interdicted order of suspension when appointing
 authority contemplated
 plated disciplinary proceedings or pending
 investigation into the crime?" Relevant paragraph 12, 13, 14
 & 15 are reproduced as under:- [Emphasis Supplied] (ii) In Principal J.D. Patil Sangludkar and another versus
 Ganesh, (2003) 9 SCC 164, Their Lordships seisin with
 issue whether during pendency of criminal proceedings,
 where employee facing serious charges and proceedings
 before competent criminal courts, full subsistence
 subsistence
 allowance amounting to full salary and allowances can be
 directed to be given? Relevant paragraph 5 reads as:- roceedings. In a case of the nature where the accused is charged
 with a serious criminal offence and is facing prosecution for the
 same at the instance of the police before competent criminal courts
 and the adjudication in respect of the same by the competentcompet
 criminal court which is seized of the matter has to be awaited as a
 matter of necessity, and the service rule does not permit as such, the
 court cannot allow full subsistence allowance amounting to full pay
 and allowances. Unless the respondent could substantiate
 s that in
 cases of the nature pertaining to him, where for any lapse or delay,
 the employer cannot be found fault with at all, the High Court could
 not have passed such an order of the nature under challenge. We
 therefore, set aside the order of the High Court on this ground alone.
 The respondent will be allowed only 50% of the salary towards his
 subsistence allowance, which seems to have been already paid to
 him." [Emphasis Supplied] (iii) In Union of India versus Ashok Kumar Aggarwal , (2013
 16 SCC 147, Hon'ble Supreme Court summarized the law
 on suspension. Relevant paragraph 19, 20, 22, 24, 26 & 27
 reads as:- // 6 // OA/050/00497/2021

 "19. During suspension, the relationship of master and servant
 continues between the employer and the employee. However, the
 employee iss forbidden to perform his official duties. Thus, a
 suspension order does not put an end to the service. Suspension
 means the action of debarring for the time being from a function or
 privilege or temporary deprivation of working in the office. In
 certain cases, suspension may cause stigma even after exoneration
 in the departmental proceedings or acquittal by the criminal court,
 but it cannot be treated as a punishment even by any stretch of
 imagination in the strict legal sense. ( Vide O.P. Gupta v. Union of
 o
 India and Capt. M. Paul Anthony v. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd .) 20. In State of Orissa v. Bimal Kumar Mohanty this Court
observed as under: (SCC p. 133, para 13)

 "13. ...the order of suspension would be passed after taking
 into consideration the gravity of the misconduct sought to be
 inquired Into or investigated and the nature of the evidence placed
 before the appointing authority and on application of the mind by
 the disciplinary authority. Appointing authority or disciplinary
 authority should consider... and decide whether it is expedient to
 keep an employee under suspension pending aforesaid action. It
 would not be as an administrative routine or an automatic order to
 suspend an employee. It should be on consideration of the gravity
 of the alleged misconduct or the nature of the allegations imputed
 to the delinquent employee. The court or the Tribunal must
 consider each case on its own facts and no general law could be laid down in that behalf. In other words it is to refrain him to avail
 further opportunity too perpetrate the alleged misconduct or to
 remove the impression among the members of service that
 dereliction of duty would pay fruits and the offending employee
 could get away even pending the witnesses or the delinquent
 having had an opportunity in office
 offic to impede the progress of the
 investigation or inquiry, etc.... It would be another thing if the
 action is actuated by mala fides, arbitrarily or for ulterior purpose.
 The suspension must be a step in aid to the ultimate result of the
 investigation or inquiry. quiry. The authority also should keep in mind
 public interest of the impact of the delinquent's continuance in
 office while facing departmental inquiry or trial of a criminal
 charge." (emphasis added)
(See also R.P. Kapur v. Union of India and Balvantrai Ratilal
 R Patel
v. State of Maharashtra .) 21. The power of suspension should not be exercised in an
arbitrary manner and without any reasonable ground or as
vindictive misuse of power. Suspension should be made only in a
case where there is a strong prima facie
 fa case against the delinquent
employee and the allegations involving moral turpitude, grave
misconduct or indiscipline or refusal to carry out the orders of
superior authority are there, or there is a strong prima facie case
against him, if proved, would ordinarily result in reduction in rank,
removal or dismissal from service. The authority should also take
into account all the available material as to whether in a given case,
it is advisable to allow the delinquent to continue to perform his
duties in the
 he office or his retention in office is likely to hamper or
frustrate the inquiry. 22. In view of the above, the law on the issue can be summarised to
the effect that suspension order can be passed by the competent
authority considering the gravity of the alleged misconduct i.e.
serious act of omission or commission and the nature of evidence
available. It cannot be actuated by mala fide, arbitrariness, or for
ulterior purpose. Effect on public interest due to the employee's
 // 7 // OA/050/00497/2021

continuation in office is also a relevant and determining factor.
The facts of each case have to be taken into consideration as no
formula of universal application can be laid down this regard.
However, suspension order should be passed only where there is a
strong prima facie case against
 st the delinquent, and if the charges
stand proved, would ordinarily warrant imposition of major
punishment i.e. removal or dismissal from service, or reduction in
rank, etc. 23. In Jayrajbhal Jayantibhal Patel v. Anilbhai Nathubhai Patel this
Court explained: 24. Longng period of suspension does not make the order of
 suspension invalid. However, in State of H.P. v. B.C. Thakur ,
 this Court held that where for any reason it is not possible to
 proceed with the domestic enquiry the delinquent may not be kept
 under suspension. 25. There cannot be any doubt that the 1965 Rules are a self- self
 contained code and the order of suspension can be examined in the
 light of the statutory provisions to determine as to whether the
 suspension order was justified. Undoubtedly, the delinquent
 delinquen cannot
 be considered to be any better off after the charge-sheet
 charge has been
 filed against him in the court on conclusion of the investigation
 than his position during the investigation of the case itself. ( Vide
 Union of India v. Udai Narain .) 26. The scopee of interference by the Court with the order of
 suspension has been examined by the Court in a large number of
 cases, particularly in State of M.P. v. Shardul Singh , P.V.
 Srinivasa Sastry v. Comptroller & Auditor General , ESI v. T.
 Abdul Razak , Kusheshwar Dubey v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 24, Delhi Cloth & General Mills Ltd. v. Kushal Bhan , U.P. Rajya
 Krishi Utpadan Mandi Parishad v. Sanjiv Rajan , State of
 Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena, Prohibition and Excise Deptt. v. L.
 Srinivasan and Allahabad Bank v. Deepak Kumar K Bhola22,
 wherein it has been observed that even if a criminal trial or
 enquiry takes a long time, it is ordinarily not open to the court to
 interfere in of the competent authority who can always review its
 order of suspension being an inherent power conferred
 c upon
 them by the provisions of Article 21 of the General Clauses Act,
 1897 and while exercising such a power, the authority can
 consider the case of an employee for revoking the suspension
 // 8 // OA/050/00497/2021

 order, if satisfied that the criminal case pending would be b
 concluded after an unusual delay for no fault of the employee
 concerned. Where the charges are baseless, mala fide or
 vindictive and are framed only to keep the delinquent employee
 out of job, a case for judicial review is made out. But in a case
 where no o conclusion can be arrived at without examining the
 entire record in question and in order that the disciplinary
 proceedings may continue unhindered the court may not
 interfere. In case the court comes to the conclusion that the
 authority is not proceeding
 g expeditiously as it ought to have been
 and it results in prolongation of sufferings for the delinquent
 employee, the court may issue directions. The court may, in case
 the authority fails to furnish proper explanation for delay in
 conclusion of the enquiry,
 ry, direct to complete the enquiry within a
 stipulated period. However, mere delay in conclusion of enquiry
 or trial cannot be a ground for quashing the suspension order, if
 the charges are grave in nature. But, whether the employee
 should or should not continue
 ntinue in his office during the period of
 enquiry is a matter to be assessed by the disciplinary authority
 concerned and ordinarily the court should not interfere with the
 orders of suspension unless they are passed in mala fide and
 without there being even n a prima facie evidence on record
 connecting the employee with the misconduct in question. 27. Suspension is a device to keep the delinquent out of the
 mischief range. The purpose is to complete the proceedings
 unhindered. Suspension is an interim measure in the aid of
 disciplinary proceedings so that the delinquent may not gain
 custody or control of papers or take any advantage of his
 position. More so, at this stage, it is not desirable that the court
 may find out as to which version is true when there are a claims
 and counterclaims on factual issues. The court cannot act as if it
 is an appellate forum de hors the powers of judicial review." review. [Emphasis Supplied] 10. Now coming to the facts of present case, principles of service
jurisprudence on law on suspensi
 suspension,
 on, and scope of judicial review in cases
of suspension for reason is of an administrative nature and suspension is not
punishment. It is in exclusive domain of employer to revoke the suspension
order. 11. As evident from the record that applicant working as
GDSBPM, Mohabbatpur BPO in account with Sherghati SO during period
from 18.12.2019 to 03.11.2020 deposited a sum of ₹26,48,490/- from
customers in various accounts and paid only ₹8,69,806/- through AEPS,
balance of IPPS ₹17,78,684/- not been credited to Government
 Government exchequer. So also misappropriated ₹25,000/- in IPPB deposit and ₹38,250/- in various
Sukanya Samridhi account. Total amount ₹18,41,934/- so far verified and
other relevant record being verified for lapses and embezzlement. 12. So also applicant did not handover all documents and articles
to ABPM of the BO an FIR was lodged against present applicant at Police
 // 9 // OA/050/00497/2021

Station Sherghati, No. 603 of 2020 dated 01.12.2020 and payment of 25%
ex-gratia
 gratia made. 13. Respondents have found prima-facie
 prima involvement of financial
embezzlement of Government money. On fraudulent financial transactions
prima-facie
 facie case of fraud registered and order of POD, approved by the
competent authority and no interference is warranted, OA sans merit. 14. In view of above material
 aterial and strong prima-facie
 prima facie case of
misconduct, the appointing authority in exercise of statutory power under
Sub-rule(1)
 rule(1) of Rule 12 of Rules 2020 rightly placed applicant under POD
vide impugned order dated 13.11.2020 and 18.11.2020 and paid ex
 ex-gratia
 gratia
payment with admissible dearness allowance. Rule 12 of Rules 2020 is
itself code on the POD and criminal case as well as disciplinary
proceedings are at advance stage and consequences shall ensu
 ensue. 15. In view of above reasons competent authority has rightly
taken decision to POD and well within it's power to place applicant on
POD as there is strong prima
 prima-facie
 facie case of involvement in grave and moral
turpitude charges alleged. Impugned orders dated 13.11.2020 and
18.11.2020 of Put
 Put-off-Duty
 Duty do not suffer from any
 ny legal infirmity so also
issued by competent authority within power under Rule 12 of Rules for
GDS and no interference is warranted in the present OA and applicant is
not entitled for relief sought in the OA as failed to establish infringement of
any leg
 legal
 al right and competent authority has passed impugned orders
without any legal infirmity in accordance with rules of POD. 16. However, it is made clear that this Tribunal have not
expressed any opinion on merit of the case. Entire matter has to be dealt on
legall evidence and accordance with law. 17. Resultantly, the Original Application being devoid of merit. 18. Original Application is dismissed. 19. There shall be no order as to costs. 20. As a sequel thereof, any pending MA(s), shall also stand
disposed of. Sd/- [Ajay Pratap Singh]
 Judicial Member
 Central Administrative Tribunal
 Patna Bench, Patna
sks/-