What’s the news? : An investigation by The News Minute (TNM) found that an NGO collected personal information from thousands of voters in Bengaluru by making their field agents pose as government officials.

The Chilume Educational Cultural and Rural Development Institute’s actions were enabled by a government order which allowed the NGO to “create awareness” about voter rights and assist in the revision of electoral rolls, reports TNM . Chilume was given permission by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) to conduct Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP), a special voter awareness campaign by the Election Commission of India to revise the electoral polls ahead of the Karnataka Assembly polls of 2023.

Fake ID cards were issued to field agents, identifying them as Booth Level Officers of the BBPM, adds TNM . Chilume was further found to have links with an election management company through one of its directors.

In a tweet, one of the authors of TNM’s article—Prajwal—shared that after the investigation, the BBPM withdrew the permission granted to Chilume allowing it to collect data. BBMP said Chilume had “violated the conditions of permission”, however it did not provide information on what exactly the NGO did. “Both BBMP and EC officials confirmed to TNM that despite the cancellation order, the data has not been retrieved from Chilume and its subcontractors,” notes the report.

Ravikumar Krishnappa, the person behind Chilume and the election management company, was confident that no wrong has been done, arguing that an amendment was passed which allows private agencies to collect data. Krishnappa added that he has been doing the same data collection since 2014 (this claim could not be verified by TNM ).

After TNM's investigation on Bengaluru NGO that stole voter data by sending field workers impersonating government officials, the BBMP has cancelled the permission given to the NGO. pic.twitter.com/kOSYetVyHi

— Prajwal (@prajwalmanipal) November 16, 2022

Why it matters: The now clichéd phrase “data is the new oil” holds true for political campaigns as well—steering a political campaign based on the needs and wants of people can be the difference between winning and losing. Learning about voters helps political parties target specific campaigns in specific areas, whether online or offline. For instance, learning about the educational background of voters can help analyse the tone, language, and communication style to be used in a campaign. Data can help election managers figure out what problems people are dealing with and what kind of political leader they would want to choose. Although there’s nothing wrong with asking people what their problems are, it becomes a serious issue when the purpose of data collection is something else (like creating voter awareness) and its actual use is something else (like sharing this data with a political party or a connected agency).

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event