X (formerly Twitter), Facebook, and Instagram are failing to enforce their moderation policies against a surge of AI-generated anti-Muslim hate, according to a new report by the Center for the Study of Organized Hate (CSOH).

The report titled “AI-Generated Imagery and the New Frontier of Islamophobia in India” finds that platforms removed just one of the 187 posts flagged for violating community standards.

This is concerning as it is enables a “closed-loop system” where media outlets produce and provide legitimacy to hate speech through the AI-generated content, and a user base then amplifies this legitimised hate. Notably, such content makes old prejudices scalable, faster, cheaper, and harder to trace .

CSOH, a Washington-based nonprofit think tank, published the report in September 2025 as an “early and urgent intervention” to understand how AI is shaping online hate in India. The launch and popularity of AI tools with image-generation capabilities further prompted this intervention.

The analysis is based on 1,326 publicly available AI-generated images and videos. The posts appeared on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook, and Instagram between May 2023 and 2025.

These posts, collected from 297 public accounts, generated a total engagement of 27.3 million. Instagram proved to be the “most effective amplifier” with 462 posts, while X had the most posts (509), and also accounted for the most views (24.1 million).

The researchers categorised the analysed content into four main categories of AI-generated hate speech:

These were the most viral posts and reveal the “gendered character of much Islamophobic propaganda”. It included AI-generated “soft-porn images” featuring women in hijabs or burqas. It shows a pattern of online harassment of Muslim women, such as the 2021 Sulli Deals and 2022 Bulli Bai apps .

These posts portray Muslims as “animals” or as “illegal infiltrators”. For instance, there is an AI-generated image of a “snake wearing a skullcap”. This frames Muslims as “deceptive, venomous, and deserving of extermination”.

These posts create “visual evidence” for existing conspiracies such as “Love Jihad”, “Population Jihad”, and “Rail Jihad”. In one example, an AI-generated image showed a Muslim man placing a boulder on a railway track with a train fast approaching.

These posts were the least in number but were very viral. The images portray real-world violence against Muslims through a Ghibli-style aesthetic, making hate appear stylised and palatable.

For example, the BJP’s official X account posted a stylised AI image of L.K. Advani with the Ram Mandir slogan. Such aesthetic choices make hate content appear more palatable and shareable on platforms.

The report draws attention to how Hindu nationalist media actors are “central” to producing and legitimising synthetic hate. This is what fuels the closed-loop system and integrates such content into the mainstream.

These outlets use AI-generated images as thumbnails and backdrops. For example, Sudarshan News allegedly used an AI image of a Muslim man with an axe near a train to portray a tragic accident in Jalgaon as deliberate “Rail Jihad”.

Such conspiratorial attempts are not new and have been documented in the past as well. For instance, the RSS and Bajrang Dal have spread inflammatory anti-Muslim content on platforms leading upto the Delhi riots.

But, why is it that such hate speech is proliferating on platforms despite moderation policies and legal safeguards?

CSOH researchers tested platform moderation by flagging 187 posts — 108 on X, 37 on Facebook, and 42 on Instagram — that clearly violated community standards. They reported them using the platforms’ own categories such as “Hate”, “Abuse & Harassment”, and “Calls for Violence.”

Yet, the platforms removed only one post, revealing how ineffective their moderation systems remain against AI-generated hate. This inaction by the platforms is “particularly alarming” as it allows the spread of “slopaganda”: defined as cheap and low-veracity synthetic content that can “saturate the information environment”.

The CSOH report argues that this failure exposes a “gap between the rapid evolution of AI technologies and the sluggishness of current enforcement models”.

This inaction on the part of the platforms to take down hate content flagged by users lies in sharp contrast to the reaction of platforms to government takedown orders . MediaNama has previously reported that this gap may be by design. In 2020, Facebook’s then-public policy head for India, Ankhi Das, reportedly had recommended against Facebook taking down hateful content made by BJP members to protect the company’s “business prospects”. The Delhi State Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee later stated it prima facie f ound Facebook guilty of aggravating the Delhi riots.

CSOH recommends targeting the source of AI development by:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event