Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and

learned Public Prosecutor. Perused the record. 2. The petitioner herein is accused in Crime No.729 of

2021 pending on the file of Cyber Crime Police Station,

Ranga Reddy District. The offences alleged against the

petitioner herein are under Sections 354D and 509 IPC

and Section 67 I.T. Act. 3. In the complaint 26-06-2021 the allegations leveled

against him are as follows: 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner seeks

quashment of the said F.I.R. on following 3 grounds: 5. Prima facie, the contents of the said complaint

constitute the said offence. It is settled law that the F.I.R. is not an encyclopedia. It is for the Investigating Officer

to consider sever factual aspects including the

allegations made by the complainant in the complaint. The Investigating Officer has already invoked the

procedure laid down under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C.,

considering the punishment for offences alleged against

the petitioner herein. Petitioner has surrendered before

Court below and obtained bail. 6. In Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Private Limited

v. The State of Uttar Pradesh1 , the Apex Court

referring to the earlier judgments rendered by it has

categorically held that the High Courts in exercise of

its inherent powers under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C has 1 . AIR 2021 SC 931 5 to quash the proceedings in criminal cases in rarest of

rare cases with extreme caution. 7. In M/s. Neeharika Infrastructure Private

Limited v. State of Maharashtra2 , a Three-judge

Bench of the Apex Court laid certain conclusions, for

the purpose of exercising powers by High Courts under

Section - 482 of Cr.P.C and also Article - 226 of the

Constitution of India, which are as under: interference would result in miscarriage of
justice, the Court and the judicial process should
not interfere at the stage of investigation of
offences; xi) Extraordinary and inherent powers of the
Court do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on
the Court to act according to its whims or
caprice; xii) The first information report is not an
encyclopedia which must disclose all facts and
details relating to the offence reported. Therefore,
when the investigation by the police is in
progress, the court should not go into the merits
of the allegations in the FIR. Police must be
permitted to complete the investigation. It would
be premature to pronounce the conclusion based
on hazy facts that the complaint/FIR does not
deserve to be investigated or that it amounts to
abuse of process of law. During or after
investigation, if the investigating officer finds
that there is no substance in the application
made by the complainant, the investigating
officer may file an appropriate report/summary
before the learned Magistrate which may be
considered by the learned Magistrate in
accordance with the known procedure; xiii) The power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is very
wide, but conferment of wide power requires the
court to be cautious. It casts an onerous and
more diligent duty on the court; xiv) However, at the same time, the court, if it
thinks fit, regard being had to the parameters of
quashing and the self-restraint imposed by law,
more particularly the parameters laid down by
this Court in the cases of R.P. Kapur (supra) and 7 Bhajan Lal (supra), has the jurisdiction to quash
 the FIR/complaint; and xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made
 by the alleged accused, the court when it
 exercises the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,
 only has to consider whether or not the
 allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of
 a cognizable offence and is not required to
 consider on merits whether the allegations make
 out a cognizable offence or not and the court has
 to permit the investigating agency/police to
 investigate the allegations in the FIR." 8. In view of the above discussion and the principle laid down by the Apex Court, scuttling investigation at

the threshold is not warranted. Therefore, this Court is

not inclined to quash the proceedings in the aforesaid

case at this stage. 9. Therefore, this Criminal Petition is liable to be

dismissed and accordingly, dismissed. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in this

criminal petition, shall stand closed. __________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J

June 14, 2022
PN 8 THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE K. LAKSHMAN

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.4021 of 2022

 June 14, 2022

PN