In this petition, petitioner seeks for the following reliefs:- passed by the Respondent No.2 at Annexure-F OIA
 No.188-190/2023-24/ADC-AII/GST dated 01.09.2023
 passed by the 2nd Respondent. c) Any other relief/s as deemed fit to be granted to
 the Petitioner by this Hon'ble Court in the
 circumstances of the case, in the interest of justice
 and equity." NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 2. The brief facts giving rise to the present petitions are as

under:- Original dated 28.07.2022 passed in favour of the petitioner. Aggrieved by the said Order-in-Original, the Revenue filed an

appeal before the appellate authority which proceeded to pass the

impugned order dated 01.09.2023 allowing the appeal and thereby, -4- NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 rejecting the refund claim of the petitioner, who is before this Court

by way of the present petition. 3. Heard learned counsel appearing for the petitioner and

learned counsel appearing for the respondents-Revenue and

perused the material on record. 4. Before adverting to the rival contentions, it would be

necessary to extract the aforesaid Agreement at Annexure-H dated

01.04.2019 entered into between the petitioner and The Athene

Group LLC, the overseas recipient of the services supplied by the

petitioner as hereunder:- Athene and Service Provider are collectively referred to as the
 "Parties" and individually as a "Party". WHEREAS, Athene is engaged in the business of providing
 technology services in the CRM (Customer Relationship
 Management) and salesforce ecosystem and currently sells a
 product called Skience to customers in the wealth
 management industry. WHEREAS, Service Provider and its employees are capable
 of performing information technology, software development
 and consulting services as required by Athene. WHEREAS, in connection with the performance of Athene's
 obligations to its clients ("Clients"), Athene desires to utilize
 Service Provider and its employees, and Service Provider
 desires to provide its technical services to Athene as set forth
 herein. NOW, THEREFORE, Athene and Service Provider agree as
 follows: 2.1. In consideration of the provisioning of the Services by
 Service Provider under each SOW, Athene shall pay an
 amount equal to (a) Service Provider's total cost, that is,
 cost and expenses relating to the provisioning of the
 applicable services under such SOW, including, without
 limitation, salaries of employees, compensation to third
 party providers, office rent and expenses, travel costs and
 administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization
 which are attributable to the Services under such SOW
 (collectively "Actual Costs") PLUS (b) a mark-up which
 shall be equal to such percentage of the Actual Costs
 which shall be mutually agreed between the Parties based
 on the provisions of section 92C of the Income Tax Act,
 1961. ΑΠ payments made under the Agreement shall be
 in US Dollars. The Parties hereby agree that the invoices for each
 calendar month will be raised by Service Provider within
 the 7 day of succeeding calendar month ("Invoice Date")
 and the duly approved invoice by Athene's customer
 manager, subject to clause 2.2, will be payable by Athene
 within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of such
 invoice by Athene ("Billing Due Date"). 2.2. In case of any disagreement on the invoices, Athene shall
 give a notice of such disagreement to Service Provider
 within fifteen (15) days of the Invoice Date specifying the
 disputed portion of such invoice and reasons for the
 dispute. Athene shall pay the undisputed amount on or
 before the Billing Due Date. Any disputed amount shall be -7- NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 payable to Service Provider subject to resolution of dispute
 in favour of Service Provider within fifteen (15) days after
 the date of such resolution. 2.3. In respect of disputed amounts, the operating team of the
 Parties shall endeavor to reconcile the differences and
 resolve the dispute within 7 (seven) days from the date of
 the notice. In the event the operating teams are unable to
 resolve the dispute within 7 (seven) days from the date of
 the notice, the dispute shall be escalated to the business
 heads of the Parties who shall endeavor to resolve the
 dispute within 21 (twenty-one) days from the date of the
 notice. Subject to aforesaid resolution of dispute in favour
 of Athene, if the disputed amount has already been paid
 then, Athene shall have right to deduct the disputed
 amount from any invoices delivered to it. In the event the
 dispute is resolved in favour of Service Provider and if
 Athene has not made the payment for the disputed
 amount, then Athene shall make payment within fifteen
 (15) days after the date of such resolution. 2.4. Parties hereby agree that any Goods and Services Tax
 liability arising in India and any other indirect taxes, duties
 and charges of any kind imposed by any federal, state or
 local governmental entity on amounts received in
 consideration of the provision of services ("Taxes") that is
 levied hereunder shall be to the account of Athene
 provided, that, each Party shall bear its own income taxes
 that are based on its own net income. 2.5. Applicable Taxes at the prevailing rate at the time of
 invoice will be shown as a separate line item on the face of
 invoice. Invoices delivered by Service Provider shall be in
 accordance with the applicable provisions of Indian Goods
 and Services Tax statutes. 2.6. Where Athene is required by law to deduct withholding Tax
 or Tax deducted at source ("WHT") from a payment to
 Service Provider, Athene will pay such WHT to the
 applicable tax authority, remit the balance amount after the -8- NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 deduction of the WHT to Service Provider and forward to
 Service Provider on a timely manner an official WHT
 certificate. 3. Term and Termination

 3.1 The Parties agree that this Agreement and the rights and
 obligations of the Parties under this Agreement shall become
 effective from the date horeof ("Effective Date") and shall be
 valid until the expiry of the date that is 10 (ten) years from the
 Effective Date ("Initial Term") and in the event the Agreement is
 not terminated prior to expiry of the Initial Term, the term of the
 Agreement shall be automatically renewed for another term of 10
 (ten) years and so on until the agreement is terminated in
 accordance with clause herein below pursuant to this Agreement
 ("Term"). 3.2 In the context of the SOW, each SOW (or part thereof)
 shall remain effective from the date of such SOW for the tenure
 mentioned in the SOW, unless

 3.2.1 Specifically mutually agreed to be terminated by the
Parties to such SOW in writing, or

 3.2.2 This Agreement is terminated pursuant to clauses 3.3
or 3.4 below. 3.3 Termination Rights of Athene

 Athene shall have a right to terminate this Agreement in the
 following situations: however, termination of individual SOW shall mean to
 terminate only that SOW. It is hereby agreed between the
 Parties that termination for breach will not preclude Athene
 from exercising any other remedies for breach. 3.4 Termination by Service Provider

 3.4.1 Service Provider shall have a right to terminate this
 Agreement by providing sixty (60) days prior written notice to
 Athene in the event Athene does not pay an invoice on the
 applicable due date and Athene fails to make such payment
 within sixty (60) days of receiving notice of such breach; 3.4.2 Service Provider shall terminate this Agreement by
 providing a prior written notice of thirty (30) days in the event
 a resolution for winding up of Athene is passed, or any
 petition for winding up of Athene is admitted by a court of
 competent jurisdiction or a provisional liquidator or receiver is
 appointed and such order has not been set aside within 180
 days from the admission of such steps/proceedings or Athene
 is ordered to be wound up by court. 3.5 The provisions relating to payment terms (Clause 2),
intellectual property ownership (Clause 4), confidential information
(Clause 5), non-compete (Clause 7), limitation of liability and
indemnification (Clause 9) and arbitration and governing law
(Clause 13) shall survive termination or expiration of this
Agreement. - 10 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 4. Intellectual Property Ownership

4.1 Service Provider acknowledges and agrees that all work or
materials developed or provided by Service Provider for or on
behalf of Athene under this Agreement, or in connection
therewith (collectively, the "Works"), are exclusively owned by
Athene. 4.2 Service Provider further acknowledges and agrees that, to
the fullest extent allowed by law, all of the Works are "works
made for hire", as that phrase is defined in the Copyright
Revision Act of 1976 (17 U.S.C. § 101). Athene shall therefore
be deemed to be the sole author and owner of any and all right,
title, and interest therein, including, but not limited to, intellectual
property rights, in perpetuity and throughout the world in any and
all media whether now or hereafter known (including, but not
limited to, any and all registrations, applications, renewals,
extensions, restorations, reversions and all other proprietary and
intellectual property rights related to the Works), as well as the
right to collect all royalties and income generated therefrom and
the right to sue, counterclaim and recover for all past, present
and future violations thereof. 4.3 To the extent that any such Works are not owned by Athene
or do not qualify for any reason as "works made for hire", and to
the extent that Service Provider may have or acquire any right,
title, or interest in such Works, Service Provider hereby
irrevocably assigns to Athene any and all right, title and interest
in and to the Works (including but not limited to the copyright
therein), and any and all ideas and information embodied therein. 4.4 Service Provider agrees to execute and deliver such
assignments, copyright applications, patents, patent
applications, licenses, and other documents and instruments as
Athene may direct and to cooperate fully with Athene, both
during and after the Term, to enable Athene to secure and
maintain in any and all countries the rights described and
granted in Clauses 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 with respect to Works and to
perfect, confirm, defend, police and enforce Athene's rights - 11 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 therein. In the event Service Provider fails to timely execute
and/or deliver any such document or instrument, Service
Provider hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Athene and
any officer, employee or agent thereof, with full power of
substitution, as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full
irrevocable power and authority to take all appropriate action and
to execute any and all such documents and instruments
necessary to effectuate the foregoing. 5. Confidential Information

5.1 All information relating to Athene, clients or affiliates of
Athene that is known to be confidential or proprietary, or which is
clearly marked as such, will be held in confidence by Service
Provider and will not be disclosed or used by Service Provider
except to the extent that such disclosure or use is reasonably
necessary to the performance of Services of Service Provider. 5.2 These obligations of confidentiality will extend for a period of
twelve (12) months after the termination of this Agreement, but
will not apply with respect to information (i) that is independently
developed by a Party without reference to any confidential or
proprietary information of the other Party, (ii) that was or
becomes generally available to the public other than as a result
of action or inaction by a Party, (iii) that was within a Party's
possession prior to such information being furnished by the other
Party (provided that the source of such information was not
known to be bound by an obligation of confidentiality with respect
to such information) or (iv) which becomes available to a Party
on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the other
Party or its representatives, provided that such source is not
known to the Party receiving such information, after reasonably
inquiry, to be bound by an obligation of confidentiality with
respect to such information. 6. Duties and Obligations of Service Provider - 12 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 6.1 Service Provider agrees to cooperate with Athene's
reasonable requests with respect to the scheduling and
performance of the Services, and will keep accurate records
of its activities undertaken in performance of the Services.
Service Provider shall provide such records to Athene in such
form and timeframe as agreed between the Parties, and will
also provide Athene with such other reports that Athene may
reasonably require from time to time. Service Provider shall
comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to
those related to intellectual property rights and shall not
violate the intellectual property rights of other Party, anti-
bribery laws and labour laws and taxation laws, affecting its
assets, its business and operations, employees, services and
agreements. 6.2 As the employer of its own employees performing the
Services, Service Provider will maintain all necessary
personnel and payroll records for its employees, calculate
wages, withhold or pay applicable federal, state and local
taxes or other amounts required to be paid or withheld by law,
and pay net wages and fringe benefits, if any, directly to its
employees. Service Provider shall assume full responsibility
for the payment of all applicable withholdings, including,
without limitation, social security, unemployment
compensation and all other local, state, and federal taxes or
other charges for its employees who are working hereunder.
Service Provider shall obtain necessary work permit, visa,
residency documents required by the appropriate authority of
the relevant country/jurisdiction in relation to the Services and
for its personnel and keep the same valid during the
subsistence of the Agreement. 6.3 Service Provider shall comply with the terms and
conditions specified in this Agreement and the relevant SOW
and also ensure compliance of the terms by its personnel. 6.4 Service Provider shall take appropriate precautions
not to breach the privacy of Athene, its customers, Clients or
affiliates or any relevant third party during the course of - 13 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 performance of the Services and comply with the data privacy
laws. 7. Non-Compete

Service Provider agrees that during the period of engagement
and for a period of twenty-four (24) months thereafter, Service
Provider will not, directly or indirectly, and in any capacity
whatsoever, perform or compete or solicit the performance of
services which are similar to or competitive with services of
the type performed or offered by Athene to any person
including to (i) any Clients or (ii) any current client prospect of
Athene for whom Service Provider directly or indirectly
assisted in the preparation or submission of a proposal made
by Athene to such client prospect during the one (1) year
period preceding Service Provider cessation of work. 8. Service Provider Warranties

Service Provider warrants that it has the knowledge,
experience and skill to perform the Services, and that it will
perform the Services according to the specifications described
in this Agreement and SOW in a professional and
workmanlike manner. Service Provider warrants that the
performance of its Services will not result in the infringement
of any patent, copyright, trade secret, or other proprietary right
of any third person. 9. Limitation of Liability and Indemnification

Neither Party will be liable to the other for special, indirect or
consequential damages incurred or suffered by the other
arising as a result of or related to Services, whether in
contract, tort, or otherwise, even if the other has been advised
of the possibility of such loss or damages. Service Provider shall indemnify and hold harmless Athene
and its employees, directors and officers against any claims,
loses, costs, damages, expenses, attorney fees incurred by
Athene arising out of or in conjunction with Service Provider's - 14 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 breach of this Agreement, gross negligence or willful
misconduct or inaccurate misrepresentation and warranties. 10. Relation of Parties

The performance by Service Provider of its duties and
obligations under this Agreement will be that of an
independent service provider, and nothing in this Agreement
will create or imply an agency relationship between Service
Provider and Athene, nor will this Agreement be deemed to
constitute a joint venture or partnership between the Parties.
Service Provider has no authority (and shall not hold itself out
as having authority) to bind Athene and Service Provider shall
not make any agreements or representations on Athene's
behalf without Athens's prior written consent. 11. Secondment of Employees

Athene shall have the right, but not the obligation, to second
and appoint a representative to the Service Provider, and to
remove any such appointed representative, in its sole
discretion. Athene shall also have a right to request the
Service Provider to second and appoint its employee to
Athene and Service Provider shall be obliged to second its
employee to Athene. Any such secondment shall be on such
terms, including as to cost to be charged to the other Party, to
be agreed between the Parties in writing 12. Non-assignment

Neither Party will assign this Agreement, in whole or in part,
without the prior written consent of the other Party; provided,
that without the written consent of Service Provider, Athene
may assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement to
any of its affiliates. Any attempt to assign in violation of this
Clause 12 is void in each instance. This Agreement will inure
to the benefit of, and be binding upon the Parties hereto, - 15 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 together with their respective legal representatives,
successors, and assigns, as permitted herein. 13. Arbitration and Governing Law

Any dispute arising under this Agreement will be subject to
binding arbitration by a single Arbitrator with the American
Arbitration Association (AAA), in accordance with its relevant
industry rules, if any. The Parties agree that this Agreement
will be governed by and construed and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware. The
arbitration will be held in Delaware. The Arbitrator will have
the authority to grant injunctive relief and specific
performance to enforce the terms of this Agreement.
Judgment on any award rendered by the Arbitrator may be
enforced in any Court of competent jurisdiction. Each of the
Parties hereby expressly and irrevocably submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the State of Delaware. Each of the
Parties hereby expressly and irrevocably waives, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or
hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute
brought before any such arbitrator that any such dispute has
been brought in an inconvenient forum. 14. Attorneys' Fees

If any litigation or arbitration is necessary to enforce the terms
of this Agreement, the prevailing Party will be entitled to
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. 15. Severability

If any term of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or
contrary to law, it will be modified to the least extent
necessary to make it enforceable, and the remaining portions
of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect. - 16 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 16. Force Majeure

Neither Party will be held responsible for any delay or failure
in performance of any part of this Agreement to the extent
that such delay is caused by events or circumstances beyond
the delayed Party's reasonable control. 17. No Waiver

The waiver by any Party of any breach of covenant will not be
construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or any
other covenant. All waivers must be in writing and signed by
the Party waiving its rights. This Agreement may be modified
only by a written instrument executed by authorized
representatives of the Parties hereto. 18. Entire Agreement

This Agreement together with any attachment referred to
herein including SOW constitute the entire agreement
between the Parties with respect to its subject matter, and
supersedes all prior agreements, proposal, negotiations,
representations or communications relating to the subject
matter. Both Parties acknowledge that they have not been
induced to enter into this Agreement by any representations
or promises not specifically stated herein. 19. Provision of Services by Athene to Service Provider

 19.1 Athene shall also render certain services which may
 include information services and other services as may be
 requested and required by Service Provider to perform
 Services. Service Provider shall be liable to remunerate
 Athene for such services at actual cost which is allocated
 and charged to Service Provider on a per user basis. - 17 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 19.2 Athene shall furnish to Service Provider a monthly
 report of the basis upon which such common costs are
 allocated to Service Provider. Actual payment by Service
 Provider under this report may be adjustable (at the
 discretion of the parties) against the payment receivable by
 Service Provider from Athene under this Agreement. 19.3 Notwithstanding sub-clause 2.4 hereinabove, Parties
 hereby agree that any Goods and Services Tax liability
 arising in India and any other indirect taxes, duties and
 charges of any kind imposed by any federal, state or local
 governmental entity on payment made under sub-clause
 19.1 shall be to the account of Service Provider. IN WITNESS WEHREOF, the Parties have executed this
 Agreement by their duly authorized representatives." 5. A perusal of the material on record will indicate that

under identical circumstances in the case of M/s.Columbia Sportswear India Sourcing Pvt. Ltd., vs. Union of India &

others - W.P.No.12116/2024 & connected matters Dated

26.04.2025, this Court came to the conclusion that the petitioner

was not an 'intermediary' under Section 2(13) of the IGST Act and

provisions of the Finance Act, 1994 and the services provided by

the petitioner to its overseas service recipients / entities are that of

an independent service provider which qualify as export of services

under the service tax provisions and 2(6) of the IGST Act and

allowed and disposed of the petitions as hereunder:- - 20 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 • Absence of these ingredients would show that the
 relationship was not really one of agency but of an
 independent service provider. This is clear from the circular
 set out for data hosting services where it is clear that when a
 person does data hosting services for a foreign company and
 the foreign company uses this to store third party data, the
 person providing such services is doing it without any contact
 with the third party and therefore, cannot be called an
 intermediary as he does not facilitate or arrange. He is only
 doing the said services on his own account to the foreign
 company who could store any data on that platform.
• Therefore, even if there are three parties, one should clearly
 see whether the agreement casts an obligation on the
 service provider to act on someone else's behalf in respect
 of such supply and only then it would be an intermediary
 services. For example, where one party to a contract with
 another party, sub contracts a portion of his work to a third
 party, it does not mean that an intermediary relationship is
 established. Sub contractors would very well be doing the
 said work on their own account as is often the case with
 software development or research work carried out in India
 on contract basis. • It is also axiomatic that absence of three persons would
 straightaway rule out the agreement from the scope of
 intermediary services as the agreement would then be a
 service provider-service receiver relationship without the
 service provider doing any facilitating or arranging.
 Therefore, in a given agreement, if there is no scope for the
 service provider to act on behalf of the service receiver, then - 21 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 the agreement is one on principal to principal basis where
 services are provided on own account. • It would be necessary to consider that the definition of
 "intermediary" is far more restricted than that of an "agent".
 The term "agent" is not defined in the IGST Act, 2017 but it is
 defined in the CGST Act, 2017 under Section 2(5) to mean, a
 person who carries on the business of supply or receipt of
 goods or services or both on behalf of another person and he
 could be a factor, broker, commission agent, arhatia, del
 credere agent, auctioneer or any other mercantile agent by
 whatever name called. Therefore, the fine distinction that is
 there between these two is that while the agent supplies or
 receives goods or services on behalf of another person, the
 intermediary only arranges or facilitates supply on behalf of
 another person without himself supplying the same. This
 distinction also has to be kept in mind as the definition of
 intermediary calls him an agent who only does facilitation or
 arrangement and therefore, while he is an agent and acts for
 another, his job is to only facilitate or arrange supplies
 between his principal and a third party. • The position in service tax remains identical as set out in the
 decisions extracted in Amazon's case supra. 12. In the light of the principles that emerge from the
 aforesaid Judgments, Circulars, Notifications etc., in the facts
 and circumstances obtaining in the instant cases as set out
 supra analyzing the said agreements, I am of the considered
 opinion that the petitioner is not an 'intermediary' under Section 2(13) of the IGST Act and provisions of the Finance
 Act, 1994 and the services provided by the petitioner to its - 22 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 service recipients are that of an independent service provider
which qualify as export of services under the service tax
provisions and 2(6) of the IGST Act and consequently, the
impugned orders and demand of the respondents deserve to
be quashed by issuing further directions in this regard for the
following reasons: - 23 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 13. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances,
I am of the view that the impugned orders and demands
made by the respondents deserve to be quashed. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 17. In the result, I pass the following:- Original No.104/2022-23 dated 28.03.2023 vide Annexure-B
passed by the 3rd respondent insofar as they relate to
rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner pertaining to the
issue of 'intermediary / intermediary services' are hereby
quashed by holding that the services provided by the
petitioner do not fall under the definition of 'intermediary
services' and that the same is considered as export of
services. (iii) The impugned orders insofar as they relate to
rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner on the ground
that they are barred by limitation under Section 54 of the
CGST Act are hereby set aside by holding that the refund
claims of the petitioner are not barred by limitation in the light
of the CBIC Notification bearing No.13/2022-Central Tax
dated 05.07.2022 which is applicable to the refund claim of
the petitioner; (iv) The respondents are directed to grant/pay refund
in favour of the petitioner together with interest under Section
56 of the CGST Act, 2017 as expeditiously as possible and - 24 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 at any rate within a period of three months from the date of
receipt of a copy of this order. (v) All other contentions and issues including rejection
of all other refund claims of the petitioner are kept open to be
adjudicated by the appropriate authorities bearing in mind
the Circular No.183/15/2022-GST dated 27.12.2022 and
Circular No.193/05/2023-GST dated 17.07.2023 and in
accordance with law. (i) W.P.No.3420/2024 is hereby partly allowed. (ii) The impugned Order-in-Appeal dated 12.08.2022
vide Annexure-A passed by the respondents insofar as they
relate to rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner
pertaining to the issue of 'intermediary / intermediary
services' are hereby quashed by holding that the services
provided by the petitioner do not fall under the definition of
'intermediary services' and that the same is considered as
export of services. (iii) The impugned orders insofar as they relate to
rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner on the ground
that they are barred by limitation under Section 54 of the
CGST Act are hereby set aside by holding that the refund
claims of the petitioner are not barred by limitation in the light
of the CBIC Notification bearing No.13/2022-Central Tax
dated 05.07.2022 which is applicable to the refund claim of
the petitioner; (iv) The respondents are directed to grant/pay refund
in favour of the petitioner together with interest under Section
56 of the CGST Act, 2017 as expeditiously as possible and - 25 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 at any rate within a period of three months from the date of
receipt of a copy of this order. (v) All other contentions and issues including rejection
of all other refund claims of the petitioner are kept open to be
adjudicated by the appropriate authorities bearing in mind
the Circular No.183/15/2022-GST dated 27.12.2022 and
Circular No.193/05/2023-GST dated 17.07.2023 and in
accordance with law. (i) W.P.No.3376/2024 is hereby partly allowed. (ii) The impugned Order-in-Appeal dated 04.11.2022
vide Annexure-A passed by the respondents insofar as they
relate to rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner
pertaining to the issue of 'intermediary / intermediary
services' are hereby quashed by holding that the services
provided by the petitioner do not fall under the definition of
'intermediary services' and that the same is considered as
export of services. (iii) The impugned orders insofar as they relate to
rejection of the refund claim of the petitioner on the ground
that they are barred by limitation under Section 54 of the
CGST Act are hereby set aside by holding that the refund
claims of the petitioner are not barred by limitation in the light
of the CBIC Notification bearing No.13/2022-Central Tax
dated 05.07.2022 which is applicable to the refund claim of
the petitioner; (iv) The respondents are directed to grant/pay refund
in favour of the petitioner together with interest under Section
56 of the CGST Act, 2017 as expeditiously as possible and - 26 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 at any rate within a period of three months from the date of
 receipt of a copy of this order. (v) All other contentions and issues including rejection
 of all other refund claims of the petitioner are kept open to be
 adjudicated by the appropriate authorities bearing in mind
 the Circular No.183/15/2022-GST dated 27.12.2022 and
 Circular No.193/05/2023-GST dated 17.07.2023 and in
 accordance with law. (i) W.P.No.3486/2020 is hereby partly allowed. (ii) The impugned Order-in-Original dated 25.11.2019
 vide Annexure-B passed by the respondents and all further
 demands, notices, orders, proceedings etc., pursuant thereto
 are hereby quashed. 6. In the instant case, a perusal of the aforesaid Agreement

will clearly indicate that at clause No.10 that the petitioner is not an

'intermediary' as wrongly held in the impugned order by the

appellate authority and as such, the impugned order deserves to

be set aside and the Order-in-Original granting refund in favour of

the petitioner deserves to be upheld in the present petition. Under

these circumstances, it is clear that the aforesaid judgment of this

Court in Amazon's case supra and the principles laid down

therein are directly and squarely applicable to the subject

Agreement in the present petition, which accordingly deserves to - 27 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 be allowed by quashing the impugned order at Annexure-F dated

01.09.2023 passed by the appellate authority and restoring the

Order-in-Original at Annexure-D dated 28.07.2022 for April, 2022

and May, 2022 and issue further directions in this regard. 7. In the result, I pass the following:- (iv) The respondents are directed to grant/pay refund in

favour of the petitioner together with interest under Section 56 of

the CGST Act, 2017 as expeditiously as possible and at any rate - 28 - NC: 2025:KHC:17588 WP No. 23286 of 2023 within a period of three months from the date of receipt of a copy of

this order. Sd/- (S.R.KRISHNA KUMAR)
 JUDGE

Srl.