The day the card was stolen, we had immediately complaint to your bank and also complaint to cyber crime on next working day ... Please see the attachments. I am very much sure that i didn't receive any otp, so when i didn't received any otp's there is no question of sharing nor manipulating or using it . We have been using your bank's credit card since long, till date whatever purchases made, we have always paid for each transactions and that too before time !!! if i would have received the otp for this transaction, then why should complaint to the bank for theft of card ? i would have surely paid for this transaction . When my card was stolen, i immediately complained it, then if the thief or the person how he manipulated and used this card either he swiped or used online, i am not responsible to know about it . !!! i immediately made the complaint to the bank when recieved the sms for debit of amount ! i didn't receive any sms of any otp's as what you and your bank says it . I didn't even knew whether that 30855.00 which the thief had stolen was used by him either by swiping somewhere or online !! when ididn't recvd any otp's, how does the question arise of me knowing that i have revd the sms of otp !!! that is absolutely wrong allegation and wrong investigation . There is bank internal system wrong, the online banking security system of your bank is wrong or something wrong in it ... Hence it is not at all my liability and it is 100 % bank internal system liability and stanchart is responsible for it. I completely deny your allegation and we are not responsible for the payment of the same and i also completely deny your unfair and biased investigation report and process. There is complete failure in your card security systems and we do believe your card security systems are not safe for credit card genuine customers . Your investigation reports are completely biased . You can see our entire report that from the day i received your credit card and till date i have always made payments for all our purchases and that too before time . Our intentions are clear and transparent and without any unfair intentions. Hence we do not accept your investigation and thereby request you to kindly reverse the same and you had not even informed us the within 45 days of the complaint and all of a sudden after 58 days you are saying that your investigation is correct any my complaint is not acceptable...Which we also do not accept it. I completely deny your investigation and you were supposed to reply with investigation within 45 days ...Then why did you took 58 days to revert that too false investigation .We do not agree and will not pay rs. 30855.50 ...And liability is in your part and not at all in my part. If that is so, then block by standard chartered credit card forever, as we no longer wish to continue with you and we are no longer responsible for any payment to owe you . As you all not swolving my genuine case, i am very much disheartened by your bank as you are not protecting your long time customer facing a genuine issue . For the same i wish to close to all my relationship with your bank, please block all my credit cards associated with your bank . We still wish to keep relation with your bank for credit card, by spending and using as much as possible, so that our relation would have been continued, but you all not solving my issue, i wish to please block all my credit cards . . My credt card ending with last 4 digits : 9544. Platinum credit card. Regards harshit parekh. - Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)