The Hyderabad city police have lodged an FIR against a journalist for posting on X about alleged harassment by the Telangana electricity department of another woman who had complained about frequent power cuts.

Journalist Revathi Pogadadanda posted a copy of the FIR on X, which shows that she has been booked under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code (punishes the act of making statements conducive to public mischief) and Section 66D (punishes cheating by personation through computer resource) of the Information Technology Act.

MY MEDAL OF HONOR: AN FiR 🎖️🎖️🎖️ In a BIZARRE move, an FIR has been lodged against me while the actual culprits from Telangana Power & Co, who harassed a female consumer in broad daylight, walk free! @RahulGandhi @priyankagandhi @revanth_anumula – Is this your stance on media… pic.twitter.com/sZ1EmPL4m1

The FIR copy reveals that the complaint was registered by M. Dileep, an assistant engineer with the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TGSPDCL), who stated that he had received a message from higher officials on June 18, apprising him of Revathi’s tweets regarding seven-hour power cut in the LB Nagar area. Dileep alleged that this was false, and accused Revathi of “intentionally spreading false propaganda against the state government and their organization” on social media.

On June 18, Revathi tweeted about the experience of a woman from the LB Nagar area who had posted on X about the power cut in the area. A lineman from the electricity department had reached her residence and asked her to delete the tweets.

HARASSMENT C/O TELANGANA POWER & CO! A woman from LB Nagar, #Hyderabad was terrorized by an unexpected incident today. Tired of the frequent power cuts, she tweeted about the incident and a lineman drops at her residence and demands her to delete the tweet. She called the…

Soon after, the journalist was contacted by the police regarding the issue. Revathi also pointed out that it was unclear how authorities determined her jurisdiction.

A VEILED THREAT?! My tweet about a woman being harassed by @tgspdcl ’s employee evoked response from many. BUT what I didn’t expect is how swiftly the POLICE will react to my tweet! Within minutes of my tweet – the Rachakonda Police handle messaged me 😊😀! Why did the… pic.twitter.com/jVf7HCn3LM

This case illustrates the possibilities of law enforcement agencies to indulge in social media policing. Police departments in multiple States are establishing social media labs to track what people are posting about, what’s trending, and what can lead to a problem. This information is analyzed to predict and prevent future crimes through predictive policing. But, this also raises concerns of censorship, including self-censorship under the fear of action, of content deemed to be defamatory or false against the State authorities, without any substantial evidence.

While speaking at a Mumbai Tech event in February, Mumbai Police Commissioner Vivek Phansalkar revealed that social media trends are used for predictive policing.

“Yes, there is a lot of predictive policing…A lot of you are on the social media, Twitter, Facebook, etc. Therefore, it has become imperative for the police to have a social media lab. We have social media labs where we have very good software and we keep on analyzing trends of social minds as to what is going on in the society. And then we try to find out whether some problem is coming. And then we analyze, depict, and learn some patterns, and then deploy our resources efficiently and effectively,” the Commissioner stated.

In May, it was reported that the Pimpri-Chinchwad district of Maharashtra would get a Social Media Monitoring Cell to oversee online activities to prevent the dissemination of false information and rumors. Further, the West Bengal police floated a tender to create an agency to monitor social media platforms using Artificial Intelligence (AI) to detect inciteful content. The agency will also monitor published and broadcasted news on any media, reported the Millennium Post.

In an interview with MediaNama, the Chennai police revealed that they have acquired the ‘Social Analytics Suit’, which provides law enforcement with information about an individual’s social media profiles and footprint across multiple platforms.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event