As many as 100 Muslim women, some of them journalists, activists, and actresses, were listed for auction on a GitHub-made app called ‘Bulli Bai’, according to a report by Al Jazeera. Their photographs were sourced and uploaded to the app without their knowledge, and they were then offered as ‘bulli bai’ – an offensive term for Muslim women – to users at random, as per the report.

GitHub has blocked the user and the police and Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) are “coordinating further action”, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said. Two FIRs have also been lodged in Mumbai and Delhi against unknown persons for the creation and use of the Bulli Bai app while political leaders and chairpersons of women’s commissions have sought action.

This is not the first time that such an incident has happened. In July, another app called ‘Sulli Deals’ had similarly listed Muslim women for auction but the culprits haven’t been caught despite multiple police complaints. Prior to that, Muslim women were sexualised on a YouTube live stream.

I have repeatedly asked Hon. IT Minister @AshwiniVaishnaw ji to take stern action against such rampant misogyny and communal targeting of women through #sullideals like platforms. A shame that it continues to be ignored. https://t.co/Q3JLxZpNeC

— Priyanka Chaturvedi🇮🇳 (@priyankac19) January 1, 2022

Delhi FIR: A copy of the FIR made public by a journalist shows that the FIR was lodged on January 2 under the following sections of the IPC:

Mumbai FIR: According to a report by Bar and Bench, the FIR has been lodged against the app’s developers and some Twitter handles under:

Seeking details on police action taken on such incidents of Muslim women being auctioned, Swati Maliwal, the chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Women, today issued summons to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell for January 6. Maliwal has asked for a detailed action taken reports on the issue, arrests made, steps taken by the police to prevent another incident like this, guidelines issues and so on. In her letter, she has also flagged police inaction on the Sulli Deals case saying that it ’emboldened the culprits and others’. Specifically, Maliwal has asked for:

Gurjit Singh Aujla, a Congress MP, wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah asking for punishment for the creators of Bulli Bai. According to him, the app violates fundamental rights and can raise questions internationally about India’s ‘commitment to protecting the women of the country’. He also said that the men have placed bids and passed derogatory remarks on Muslim women through YouTube and Twitter, and are emboldened to target such women that are fighting, speaking or writing ‘in the interest of the country’.

In the matter of the Sulli Deals controversy, here’s a snapshot of the events that transpired last year:

In the case of the YouTube live stream, the offensive content was removed by the platform, although the channel is still active. No complaints were filed against the channel on that matter.

[gravityform id=”1″ title=”true” description=”true”]

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event