It all started with a message from hp-612040 stating that :- You have been selected to get 500, 000 gbp fromsamsung annual promo to get your draft send your name, address, mobile no to [protected]@outlook.com I replied via gmail sending my details Being selected to get 500, 000 gbp from samsung annual promo Rtr channel Sat, oct 20, 1:13 pm To samsungj15 Name - raj tewari Mobile no. - [protected] Address - p-1/9a, qwatar house, lakshmi narayan mandir, newlands tea garden, alipurduar district, west bengal Nationality - indian Suddenly i received a mail from that fraud organisation 35 of 37 Kindly choose your preferred mode of payment Inbox X Samsung company Oct 22, 2018, 2:57 pm To me Samsung financial empowerment fortune program ®2018 Samsung electronics (Uk) ltd Samsung house 1000 hillswood drive Chertsey surrey kt16 0ps, united kingdom Dr. Andrew griffiths Tell :[protected] Payment number: nk249naa Verification number: nm[protected]pf Country: india 22nd october 2018 Dear winner, This correspondence officially confirms that we are in receipt of your e-mail regarding the claim of your award prize value of £500, 000.00 gbp. Samsung electronics uk collects 500, 000 cell phone numbers from all the cell phone network services in all over asian and europe countries and over twenty million cell phone numbers participated in this award promotion and seven persons from seven different countries were selected to benefit from this promotion and you are one of the selected winner. This promotional programme takes place annually, and it's being promoted and sponsored by eminent personalities like, warren buffett, lawrence ellison, bill gates of microsoft inc and with the support of samsung electronics uk to encourage the use of mobile phones worldwide. You are to fill and submit the form below, choose one (1) of the payment options the mode in which you want to receive your winning amount, for us to verify your option and assign your amount to the particular option to enable us commence with the procession and payment of your won prize fund. Payment option/preferred mode of payment. 1. Courier delivery 2. Bank telegraphic wire transfer 1. Via diplomatic courier service. In this method of courier service means, the courier company will send their diplomat who will deliver the cheque to your address. Kindly fill below form your personal details. Full name... Full address... Winning mobile number... Age... Sex... Nationality... E-mail address... Date of birth... Marital status... Occupation... 2. Via bank to bank wire transfer. In this method of bank wire, the bank will convert the cheque into cash payment and transfer to your account via electronic wire. Full name... Full address... Winning mobile number... Age... Sex... Nationality... Bank name... Bank account... Account holder... Bank swift code/ ifsc code;... Bank address... On behalf of staff and board of directors samsung electronics uk, we congratulate once again!!! On your lucky winning. Best regards, Yours faithfully, Dr. Andrew griffiths Tell :[protected] Managing director samsung Company uk and irelan. International promotion/prize award department I selected first option via diplomatic courier service and mailed him Rtr channel Mon, oct 22, 5:25 pm To samsung 1. Via diplomatic courier service. In this method of courier service means, the courier company will send their diplomat who will deliver the cheque to your address. Kindly fill below form your personal details. Full name - raj tewari Full address - p-1/9a, qwatar house, lakshmi narayan temple, newlands tea garden, kumargramduar block, alipurduar district, north bengal (West bengal), india, pincode - 736203 Winning mobile number - [protected] Age - 17 years Sex - male Nationality - indian E-mail address - [protected]@gmail.com Date of birth - 29/10/2001 Marital status - single Occupation - student I received an update suddenly of it Update to receive the winning prize Inbox X Rtr channel Oct 24, 2018, 8:16 am To samsungj15 Hello samsung! Please confirm that when mr. Charles morgan will arrive to india at my hometown. I am waiting for him since long time. Please reply! Samsung company Oct 24, 2018, 12:08 pm To me Hello dear Mr charles morgan is already in your country, But there is a little issue there, they required that your winning price And parcel has to be registered under indian government As a foreign parcel, they are demanding you have to pay the sum of 25000 Indian currency befor receiving your winning price Update of the arrival of diplomat for the delivery of your winning prize Inbox X Samsung company Attachments Oct 22, 2018, 6:53 pm To me I received an update from them Samsung financial empowerment program ®2018 Samsung electronics (Uk) ltd Dr. Andrew griffiths Tell :[protected] To raj tewari Payment number: nk249naa Verification number: nm[protected]pf Country: india Date: 22nd october 2018 Dear prize winner, You have been awarded a total sum of 500, 000.00 gbp (Five hundred thousand great british pounds), in the 2018 samsung company jackpot tour poverty alleviation grant mobile draw notification. Participants for the draws were randomly selected and drawn from a wide range of web hosts which we enjoy their patronage. Your grant mobile as indicated was drawn and attached to ticket number id/410/7680 with serial numbers 552/62/84296365 and drew the lucky numbers winn / 62353006 we advise that you check the spellings and order your name is arranged so as to avoid problems the order your names are arranged are first Name and surname. Package information Of 500, 000.00 gbp (Five hundred thousand great british pounds) We the entire samsung company jackpot tour poverty alleviation grant mobile draw board express our full felicitation to you and your well wishers. We hereby inform you that approval of your winning price of 500, 000.00 gbp (Five hundred thousand great british pounds) and the original copy of your winning certificate/relevant documents that will empower you get your winning amount lodged into your nominated account have been parceled and issued to our delivery agent diplomat mr. Charles morgan whose proof is attached to this email. The"court and government of london gaming board" has mandated us to deliver your winning prize to you by cheque. Your winning prize in a parcel (Which contains your 500, 000.00 gbp cheque, winning certificate and other vital documents) has been given to our diplomat mr. Charles morgan, The reason for arriving new delhi airport: Our delivery agent will arrive at new delhi international airport because the government and the higher authority of your country has said that new delhi is the capital city of india and the cheque has to be registered and endorsed by this governing body only because it is an international cheque. India has been access a terrorist country and award prize is a very huge amount 500, 000.00 gbp it has to be registered so that you will not be having problem or quarries with anti terrorist agency after the 500, 000.00 gbp has been transferred to your account. All these protocol must take place in the capital city which is new delhi. So that is the reason he is to arrive new delhi. Please note: All international charges has been settled by the samsung company jackpot tour poverty alleviation grant mobile draw board here in the united kingdom you will be responsible for your local custom tax clearance fees demanded by your country. Do not waste time with anything said to you by diplomat charles morgan during his arrival to your country in india. You are to follow every instruction to enable a successful transfer of the funds to your account. After the transfer of your award to your account he will come down to your city and take photograph with you and your family before returning back to uk. Delivery agent bio-data name : mr. Charles morgan Age. :52 years old Country : united kingdom Company : faster jet (Uk) international courier ltd Address : london customer/delivery services department, Unit 10, ring-way trading estate Shadow moss road, m22 5lh. Flight details of diplomat mr. Charles morgan Flight number vs 300 Departure date 22nd october 2018 Route london (L hr) to delhi (Del) Scheduled departure time 22nd october 2018 20:00 Scheduled arrival time 23rd october 2018 09:20 Del - delhi - indira gandhi international airport L hr - london - london heath row airport. Departure terminal london - london heath row airport - zone a, terminal 3 Arrival terminal: delhi - indira gandhi international airport - international departures, terminal 3 Diplomat mr. Charles morgan will call you immediately he arrives india and will instruct you on how to pay, make it available to enable him clear your parcel from the custom and proceed for transfer to make 100% safe delivery to your in india. Upon your agreement to this mail above, please send us email as to know if our diplomat will depart to india or not otherwise the flight schedule will be cancel you are to keep us updated with your readiness in receiving the special diplomat. We await your reply to this mail. Note: kindly send us a scan copy of your id card to enable the diplomat identify you on his arrival. I wish you on behalf of all members and staff of samsung? Congratulate you as you expect your won prize and i hope you spend your money wisely and to the betterment of your community and wish you the best of luck as you spend your good fortune thank you for being part of our commemorative 143rd anniversary draws. Past winners around the world full of excitement Best regards, Yours faithfully Dr. Andrew griffiths Tell :[protected] Managing director samsung Company uk and irelan. International promotion/prize award department From: rtr channel Sent: monday, october 22, 2018 5:32 pm To: samsung company Subject: re: kindly choose your preferred mode of payment 1. Via diplomatic courier service. In this method of courier service means, the courier company will send their diplomat who will deliver the cheque to your address. Kindly fill below form your personal details. Full name - raj tewari Full address - p-1/9a, qwatar house, lakshmi narayan temple, newlands tea garden, kumargramduar block, alipurduar district, north bengal (West bengal), india, pincode - 736203 Winning mobile number - [protected] Age - 17 years Sex - male Nationality - indian E-mail address - [protected]@gmail.com Date of birth - 29/10/2001 Marital status - single Occupation - student On mon, 22 oct 2018, 14:57 samsung company, wrote: Samsung financial empowerment fortune program ®2018 Samsung electronics (Uk) ltd Samsung house 1000 hillswood drive Chertsey surrey kt16 0ps, united kingdom Dr. Andrew griffiths Tell :[protected] Payment number: nk249naa Verification number: nm[protected]pf Country: india 22nd october 2018 Dear winner, This correspondence officially confirms that we are in receipt of your e-mail regarding the claim of your award prize value of £500, 000.00 gbp. Samsung electronics uk collects 500, 000 cell phone numbers from all the cell phone network services in all over asian and europe countries and over twenty million cell phone numbers participated in this award promotion and seven persons from seven different countries were selected to benefit from this promotion and you are one of the selected winner. This promotional programme takes place annually, and it's being promoted and sponsored by eminent personalities like, warren buffett, lawrence ellison, bill gates of microsoft inc and with the support of samsung electronics uk to encourage the use of mobile phones worldwide. You are to fill and submit the form below, choose one (1) of the payment options the mode in which you want to receive your winning amount, for us to verify your option and assign your amount to the particular option to enable us commence with the procession and payment of your won prize fund. Payment option/preferred mode of payment. 1. Courier delivery 2. Bank telegraphic wire transfer 1. Via diplomatic courier service. In this method of courier service means, the courier company will send their diplomat who will deliver the cheque to your address. Kindly fill below form your personal details. Full name... Full address... Winning mobile number... Age... Sex... Nationality... E-mail address... Date of birth... Marital status... Occupation... They demanded for id proof scan code I sended my aadhar scan details after scanning it Re: aadhar qr scan code Rtr channel Fri, oct 26, 11:16 am (12 days ago) To dlhcustom My aadhar qr scan code - Dlhcuctom is their gmail id which he sent me for sending him all mails He demanded for rs.25, 000 at first and again 75, 000rs. And gave me a bank account no. To pay it. The name of the account owner was jaydev yadav. I have sent all the attachments in the add photos section. He also asked my aadhar card photo for verification and sent me some fake certificates and documents photo as a payment confirmation certificate and asked my bank account number for transferring 500, 000 gbp in my account which is fraud. But i trusted him and i sent it. After payment he sended me this Custom receipt and samsung winning certificate Inbox X Delhi custom Attachments Fri, oct 26, 1:36 pm (12 days ago) To me Attn : mr raj tewari Find the attachment of your customs receipt and indian police clearance our a. C. C officer had already sign for the release of your parcel. Parcel will be delivered by mr charles morgan diplomat from united kingdom samsung company, but as per the instruction given by the a. C. C. Officer as this parcel contain the winning amount this parcel cannot be allowed to carry to your home address according to the rule and regulation of indian government. So this fund which you are receving need to go through reserve bank of india they will transfer your money in to your account as we discussing with you and after that, mr charles morgan will come to your home address with your other items. Package content:... Cheque of 500, 000.00 gbp ({five hundred thousand pounds) - 1 laptop - documents - face cap - and a t-shirt Affidavits of certificate — 0.10kg Copy of proof of ownership — - — 0.10kg Colour of box: — catoon colour One samsung galxy s6 One samsung curve tv One samsung laptop Thank you for your corporation New delhi custom department Central office 2 attachments Rtr channel Attachments Oct 26, 2018, 11:18 am (12 days ago) To dlhcustom Attachments area Re: account information Rtr channel Fri, oct 26, 2:10 pm (12 days ago) To bankreserve4 I sended my mother's bank account details Name - mrs. Kiran tiwary Account no. - [protected] Ifsc code - cbin0282907 Bank name - central bank of india Bank location - kumargram tea garden On fri, 26 oct 2018, 14:02 rtr channel, wrote: They sent me a mail from a fraud rbi webpage Log in and transfer your fund to the same account which you provided Inbox X Reserve bank Fri, oct 26, 2:54 pm (12 days ago) To me Date: 26/10/2018 Welcome to india new_ currency_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@gmail.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Our correspondent:. Mr. Raj tewari The payment controlling department of (Rbi) reserve bank of india in charge of transferring your fund sum of (500, 000. Gbp) only funds from mr. Charles morgan into your nominated bank account, hereby inform you, that we have received your full information, the wire transfer processing will be completed in next one hour, but we want you to proceed with it now and your funds can be transfer into your bank account as soon as you get this done now. Do log on to our official on-line site to complete your money transfer using our secured internet banking system. Login website : http://rbintelorg.npage.de/home4.htm User id: kiran Pasword: tiwary (Note; do not type only copy and paste) Log on now to your account to view and print out your statement of account for official record porpose. Congratulations once again, kindly contact your account office mr vikas jaswal for further information for the successful transfer of your total fund at earliest. We await your prompt response. Transfer manager, Foreign transfer department They again sent me a mail and asked currency conversion charges Currency conversion charges Inbox X Reserve bank Fri, oct 26, 3:46 pm (12 days ago) To me Date: 26/10/2018 Welcome to india_new currency_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@financier.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Our correspondent:mr raj tewari We have certified your full details regarding the final procedures for successful transfer of your money. For your kind notice, you have to follow our secured system of on-line banking to complete The transfer of your money direct to your bank account. Note that, due to our transfer policy regarding any foreign bank to bank transaction, you The beneficiary of the total amount reserve the right to perform the action of transferring The money to your nominated bank account by your self. These are part of our good security Protocols to guarantee safety transfer, also to allow you the beneficiary to monitor and control The transaction for your satisfaction which is peace of mind. Your fund will transfer today only as your diplomat has requested us to complete your transfer in that regards your Conversation charges is rs, 75, 000 inr only You have to deposit this amount as soon as possible to enable us convert your total sums 500, 000.00 gbp in india rupees (4, 97.00.000.00 inr) before complet the transfer to your given account. Please do not hesitate to contact mr vikas jaswal for details on where you will pay the amount as we have provide him all the information. From, Admin authorisation department, Foreign currency relationship office, Reserve bank of india. But somehow i managed and transferred the amount and received a fake code from them Find your currency conversion code to complete your transfer Inbox X Reserve bank of india Sat, oct 27, 1:32 pm (11 days ago) To me 27/10/2018 Welcome to india new_ currency_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@gmail.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Currency conversation code : cc1093 Congratulations: Again they asked me income tax calculation charges and sended me this Income tax calculation charges Inbox X Reserve bank of india Oct 27, 2018, 2:14 pm (11 days ago) To me Date:27/10/2018 Welcome to income tax_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@gmail.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Our correspondent: mr raj tiwary Welcome to the reserve bank of india (Rbi). We are pleased to be at your service. Your are currently in contact with the on-line banking customer care e-mail services (On-line banking section). We wish to inform you in person that you tried to make remittance/transfer. But your operations/ transfer was automatically stop as you are required to provide cot code nd tax code this is called indian income tax charges based on your pan xxxxxxxxx calculation. You have to pay indian government income tax of 0% of your total amount which is rs, 4, 97.00.000.00 inr Inr (Four crore ninety seven thousand indian rupees) you have to pay rs, 3, 55, 000inrinr to india government tax revenue department according to the phone conversation you had with our officer he pleaded with us to complete your fund transfer today only you have to make the payment to income tax department account number information to enable him complete your process without further delay. You have to make this payment directly to our income tax department office to enable the department clear your tax and complete your transfer without further delay. !! Kindly contact us by mail for immediate assistance!! We look forward to serving you better. Best regards, Mr akash agarwal Reserve bank of india, Tax department, Reserve bank of india. After payment they sent me some fake code and fake payment photos as to show it as a proof Fine your income tax reciept and curency converssion reciept bellow Inbox X Reserve bank of india Attachments Tue, oct 30, 9:58 am (8 days ago) To me Income code : ic7936 Upgrade code: ug88294 2 attachments After this i applied all the code and it was written transaction successfull with a transaction code - 8102837# But again they asked me account enlargement fees Account enlargement Inbox X Reserve bank of india Tue, oct 30, 1:20 pm (8 days ago) To me Date:30/10/2018 Welcome to account enlargement_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@gmail.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Our correspondent:mr raj tiwary Welcome to the reserve bank of india (Rbi). We are pleased to be at your service. Your are currently in contact with the on-line banking customer care e-mail services (On-line banking section). We wish to inform you in person that we tried to make remittance/transfer. But our operations/ transfer was automatically stop as you are required to enlarge your account to accommodate the total fund into your account The confirmation and transfer of your cash of 500, 000 gbp in india reserve bank of india new delhi is now on hold because the account enlargment department investigation service noticed you have not paid for your account enlargment in view of this, your are required to pay the sum of (Rs.6, lakhsinr only This will ensure that your cash van be transfer at once, the transfer can only be successful if you are cleared by the rbi enlargment department and the only way you can be cleared is when you pay the charges. Your fund transfer without further delay. As these funds are collected by agencies who trade accounts for rapid and expedient confirmation of transfers. However we shall immediately forward your on-line banking account upon confirmation of the activation charges made by you from our monetary authorities. Furthermore, you are therefore obliged to remits payment rs.6, lakhsinr only being for the administrative/procurement services, our respect following the fact that we do not reserve to make any form of deduction or tampering with the fund as a regard to the insurance bond policy acting on your funds. There also a fidelity bonds & surety bonds covering all funds unclaimed with us. This is agreement reach by the india revenue board and we, funds may be covered by what's called a banker's blanket bond, which is a multi-purpose insurance policy a bank purchases to protect itself from embezzlement and other causes of disappearing funds. The banker's blanket bond ensures that customers' funds are protected under those circumstances. Upon fulfillment of the required obligation above and properly endorsed by our insurance underwriter, we shall however expedite action to effect process and enlarge your account immediately and appropriately. We the management staff of the reserve bank of india wish to apologies for the inconveniences it might cause you. Your handling of this matter with utmost urgency will be highly appreciated and we thank you for banking with us. This is the last step of your transfer to be completed in your nominated account as we have received and approve your transfer fund. !! Kindly contact us by mail for immediate assistance!! We look forward to serving you better. Best regards, Mr, vijay kumar m Transfer manager, Foreign transfer officer, Reserve bank of india. I accept your offer. I am not interested. Thank you for your mail. But even then somehow i managed and send it to them with the photo of deposit receipt and they sended me a fraud account enlargement receipt via photo Again they sended me anti drug clearance form stating that this certificate is asked by un via photo But even then somehow i managed an deposited the amount and they sended me a fake anti drug clearance certificate via photo Again they sended me a mail From financier service authority Inbox X Financier service authority Sat, nov 3, 12:04 pm (4 days ago) To me 3rd floor jeevan deep building, sansad marg, New delhi, 110001 3 novmber 2018 Dear winner :mr raj tiwary this is to inform you we india financier service autority [fsa ] is onhold your transaction regarding your authorization and go ahead order from india financier service autority. You have to provide the certificate from india financier service authority before your winning money can be release in your account. The certicate have to provide through mr arun jaitley india financier minister After the certificate provide will india financier service authority will give order to Reserve bank of india to transfer your winning money in your account. The certificate have to be provide before all your winning money can be transfer in your local bank account. And before certificate will provide you have to paid 3 lakhsinr only. That is your final And last certificate. After the certificate provide your money will be transfer in your account wittin 45, minutes. This certicate is called authorization and go ahead order from india financier service authority [f. S. A ] and the certicate have to be provide wittin 48, hours after you make the Payment of the certificate all your total fund will be credited in your account without no delay or any charge. We advice you to make the payment this your last certificate and last payment. Thank you for your corporation' Mr arun jaitley India financier minister. New delhi india. Financier service authority Sat, nov 3, 12:04 pm (4 days ago) To me But even though i managed somehow and transferred the amount with deposit receipts Again they sended me a mail From minister of external affairs of india Inbox X Reserve bank of india Tue, nov 6, 12:32 pm (23 hours ago) To me Date:6/11/2018 Welcome to india_new currency_department. Nub:6, sansad marg, New delhi - 110 001, india. Office timings: working hours Weekdays :10:00 a. M to 5:45 p. M Saturdays :10:00 a. M to 1:30 p. M. Email: [protected]@gmail.com Ref: rbi/est/678/a08 Cdd:[protected] Cash no: 08020 Dear mr raj this is to inform you we reserve bank of india is in contact with minister of external affairs of india government regarding your transaction but your winning money is onhold due to minister of external affairs. They are asking for certificate from minister of external affairs of india, Because is huge amount of money it require certificate from minister of external affairs Before your winning money Can be transfer in your account. Before certicate can be provide you have to paid 6, lakh Mr raj this is your last Payment and also your last certificate. This message is from minister of external affairs of india We advice you to make the payment. Mrs sushma swaraj Minister of external affairs of india But this time i became alert and searched regarding this on internet and came to know that this is a fake and fraud organisation and when i asked my money they refused and they are not receiving my calls and even blocked my number on whats app. I also have their call recordings. Fraud mobile numbers:- 1. [protected] 2.[protected] international mobile number 3.[protected] international mobile number also available on whats app Fraud gmail id's 1. [protected]@gmail.com 2. [protected]@gmail.com 3. [protected]@gmail.com Please help us. We are very poor people we somehow managed this amounts via loan from moneylenders etc. Just because we thought that such a large amount if we get our future will change and we are born poor but we will not die as a poor. Recently my father died we are undergoing a deep pain and financial crisis. Please help me sir thanking you yours faithfully - raj tewari My contact number_[protected] My gmail [protected]@gmail.com I want my full 10 lakhs indian rupees with interest because we have to repay the moneylender with interest. Please help me Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)