Hi friends! Please see the attached video clip - https://youtu.be/EcWfjcMTCGE https://www.facebook.com/ForgedPolicy/videos/[protected]/ I am sure you all are doing well; i am here to warn you against an insurance fraud as we are insured and we hold certain insurance policies. The managing director of bajaj allianz is the master mind and has hatched this insurance fraud and the govt. Owned banks have been duped of crores of rupees. If you own any kind of a policy then you should be watching this clip which has been created in public interest where an insurance scam of 50 crores has been exposed by me. I also request you to please verify your policies whether they are genuine or fabricated to safeguard yourself. Idbi bank is a govt. Owned bank and will force the client to take insurance policy of bajaj allianz as idbi is their agent. There was a major fire at my factory in 2009 and after investigation the maharashtra police confirmed that the origin of fire was due to short circuit and damages of 25 crores were confirmed. Idbi bank had verified the stock before the fire accident and certificate was submitted to bajaj allianz for sanction of claim. Bajaj allianz approved the claim in respect of the factory premises confirming that the origin of fire was due to short circuit and 70 lacs were paid. The claim against stock for 21 crores was rejected by bajaj allianz stating that the origin of fire is not due to short circuit but the owners had themselves put fire to their factory. Renu seth the deputy general manager of idbi bank conspired with bajaj allianz to loot the govt. Owned banks and i was made me a scapegoat and a criminal complaint against me was registered to deny the claim of 21 crores. The maharashtra police arrested me and i was in the lockup for 5 days. After 3 months of investigation the maharashtra police & economic offence wing of (Cbi) filed a closure report stating that no case is made against me stating that the criminal complaint is false and idbi bank has filed the complaint with a malicious intent. After i was released by the maharashtra police on bail i observed that the policy of 21 cr. Submitted by bajaj allianz to the maharashtra police to arrest me was fabricated and not genuine. The original policy is for an amount of 21 crores, the figure of the fabricated policy has been changed to 12 crores and the date of issuing the policy is also wrong. In all bajaj allianz has fabricated policies of 45 crores with intend to cheat the govt. Owned banks. Insurance policies issued by bajaj allianz and submitted by union bank of india in the debt recovery tribunal are also fabricated. Irda is the watch dog appointed by the government of india to protect the interest of the policy holder whereas it is crystal clear that irda is supporting the “insurance fraud” as a fraud of this magnitude is not investigated by the vigilance team of irda. Since 10 years renu seth the deputy general manager of idbi bank has been delaying the trial and not moving forward with the court proceedings and recover the insurance claim from bajaj allianz. Bajaj allianz is a thief and the master mind in hatching this conspiracy to loot the govt. Owned banks of 21 crores which is the tax payers’ money. Mr. Tapan singhel is the managing director & ceo of bajaj allianz. Mission of bajaj allianz is that they are customer focused and market leaders and strive to understand the insurance needs of the customers I approached before the hon’ble high court with my concerns in 2015 and the court was pleased to fast track the trial but it is crystal clear that the dgm. Renu seth of idbi bank has been palm greased by bajaj allianz hence the trial is delayed by renu seth as she is not co-operating with the lower court to recover the bank dues. Renu seth being aware of the insurance fraud has allowed bajaj allianz to make hugh profits by writing off the tax payers’ money from the balance sheet of idbi bank. Rahul bajaj is the founder of the bajaj group and director of bajaj allianz. Is rahul bajaj aware of the insurance fraud hatched by bajaj allianz? Has rahul bajaj made a fortune by cheating the govt. Owned banks? Why is idbi allowing bajaj allianz to make hugh profits? Delaying the court proceedings has put a lot of suspicion in my mind. The indian judiciary is my guardian in protecting my fundamental rights of speech and speedy trial but these thief's sitting in idbi bank have tarnished the image of the govt. For years i have been trying to expedite the court proceedings to recover the amount from bajaj allianz and hand it over to the rightful owner idbi. Recently the hon’ble high court has reopened the case for the third time on my request. The prime minister’s office is monitoring this insurance fraud; mr. Devendra fadnavis the chief minister of maharashtra is also monitoring the investigation; mrs rashmi shukla, commissioner of police pune, is also monitoring this insurance fraud. Tapan! You have cheated the govt. Owned banks who are custodians of the tax payers’ money but you forget that the clutches of law will not let you walk free with the loot and i will strive hard to expose this fraud during the court proceedings. Tapan! You have only two options 1. Face me in court where i shall recover the amount of the banks and declare you as a corporate fraud. 2. Hire someone to kill me and my family and close the case. Renu seth this is a wakeup call for you to prove your integrity as a responsible bank officer and don’t take my warning lightly, if you don’t proceed with the court proceedings, i shall fast till death at idbi bank. The undersigned is the author of this article, which are true facts of court proceedings and based on documented evidence. Kishor chhabria Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)