K.S. RADHAKRISHNAN, J. 1. The petitioners, who were erstwhile Directors of Vasavi
 Cooperative Urban Bank Limited, have approached this Court seeking a
 declaration that Sections 3 , 5 , 8 and 9 of the Andhra Pradesh
 Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments Act, 1999 (in
 short “the Andhra Act”) are unconstitutional and violative of
 fundamental rights guaranteed to them under Articles 14 and 21 of the
 Constitution of India and also other consequential reliefs. 2. The petitioners were Directors of the above-mentioned bank
 during the period from 1996 to 2002. Large number of complaints were
 received from the depositors stating that the Board of Directors of
 the bank had swindled away the money of the depositors by creating
 false documents, amounting to crores of rupees. On receipt of the
 complaints, enquiry was conducted and, ultimately, Joint Registrar of
 Cooperative Societies and Chief Executive Officer of the bank
 registered Crime No.8 of 2003 on the file of the CID, Police Station
 under Section 120(b) , 420 , 409 , 468 , 477(A) , Indian Penal Code and
 under Section 5 of the Andhra Act. Criminal case was later
 investigated by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, STD-II, CID
 Hyderabad and charge-sheet was filed against several persons,
 including the petitioners. The Charge-sheet was registered as C.C.
 No.4 of 2003 before the Special Court-cum-Metropolitan Sessions Judge,
 Hyderabad. It is at this juncture, the petitioners have approached
 this Court seeking the above-mentioned reliefs and also for a writ of
 certiorari to quash all proceedings or orders passed by the competent
 authority and by the Special Court constituted under the Andhra Act.
 Petitioners have also sought for a writ of mandamus directing the
 respondents not to arrest the petitioners or to attach their
 properties for the offences alleged to have been committed by them
 under Sections 3 and 5 of Andhra Act. 3. The State of Andhra Pradesh filed a detailed counter-affidavit
 explaining the circumstances under which the petitioners were charge-
 sheeted. It was stated that, while they were in the Board of
 Directors of bank, they had entered into a criminal conspiracy with
 the borrowers of the bank and created fake proprietary concerns,
 firms/companies and swindled away money of the depositors by accepting
 defective, fake, forged title deeds and committed default in making
 payment of dues to the depositors. It was pointed out that the
 petitioners were rightly charge-sheeted for the various offences under
 the Indian Penal Code as well as Section 5 of the Andhra Act. 4. Union of India, in its counter affidavit, submitted that the
 petitioners were rightly charge-sheeted by the State Government and,
 over and above, the provisions under which they were charge-sheeted,
 even the provisions of Sections 11 to 11-D of Chapter IV of the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) would
 also be applicable as amended by the Amendment Act 2002 (59 of 2002).
 Further, it was also stated that the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative
 Societies Act, 1964 did not fall within the meaning of the “banking
 company” as defined by Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulations Act,
 1949. Union of India has taken up that stand by placing reliance on
 the Judgment of this Court in R.C. Cooper Vs. Union of India (1970) 1
 SCC 248, wherein this Court held that all activities falling under Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 would fall under
 Entry 45 of the List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of
 India. 5. The Union of India had earlier filed a counter affidavit to the
 interlocutory application No.2 of 2010, filed to implead the Union of
 India as a party to Writ Petition (C) No.614 of 2007. In that, it was
 stated that the provisions of Sections 3, 5, 8 and 9 of the Andhra Act
 were not opposed to the public policy or unconstitutional or violative
 of the fundamental rights guaranteed to the petitioners. Further,
 it is also pointed out that the Banking Regulations Act , enacted by
 the Central Government, to regulate the operation of banking companies
 or organizations, enables the RBI to give licence to banking companies
 to carry out the functions of the bank. It was pointed out that it
 covered different areas which are not common to the area covered by
 the Andhra Act. Further, it was pointed out that both the Acts have
 applicability to different aspects of refund to the depositors. The
 Banking Regulations Act , it is pointed out, was enacted to regulate
 the functioning of the banking companies, including the Vasavi
 Cooperative Urban Bank Limited and that the petitioners have
 approached this Court challenging the validity of the Act so as to
 wriggle out of the clutches of law. 6. Vasavi Cooperative Bank was registered as a cooperative society
 on 29.05.1982. The bank was issued a licence to carry on the business
 on June 16, 1982 and was accorded the Scheduled Status in the Banking
 Regulations Act w.e.f. May 22, 1999. The Bank was placed under the
 directive of Section 35A of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 with
 effect from the close of business on March 7, 2003. Bank is having 17
 branches all over the State of Andhra Pradesh. 7. We notice that the State of Andhra Pradesh was contemplating a
 legislation similar to one enacted in the State of Tamil Nadu, for a
 long time. On many occasions, the State’s attention was drawn, to the
 large scale diversion of money by many financial institutions in the
 State, by cheating the depositors of their hard-earned savings,
 misappropriating the same and then later vanishing from the scene.
 Several cases were booked against the persons responsible for the
 same, but the presence of a comprehensive legislation to curb such
 unfair practice was lacking. This was the reason for the State of
 Andhra Pradesh to enact the Andhra Act. The Statement of Objects &
 Reasons of the Act read as under :- To achieve the above object, the Government has decided to make
 separate law by undertaking legislation.” 8. The above mentioned Act was reserved by the Governor on 13th
 April, 1999 for consideration and assent of the President and on 23rd
 June, 1999, the same was granted and the Act was published on 1st
 July, 1999, in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information. 9. The petitioners have raised an objection that the State
 Legislature does not have the competence to enact the Andhra Act since
 the subject “banking” is covered under Entry 45 of List I of Seventh
 Schedule. Hence, only the Central Government is entitled to enact the
 law relating to subject “accepting of deposit from the public and
 repayment of the same on demand”. Referring to the judgment of this
 Court in R.C. Cooper’s case (supra), it was contended that the scope,
 ambit and definition of the term “banking” under Entry 45 List I of
 the Seventh Schedule appended to Article 246 would include all
 activities falling under Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulation Act,
 1949. Consequently, only the Parliament alone has the power to frame
 the law relating to acceptance of deposits or its return or making the
 same as an offence. Further, it was pointed out that the powers
 conferred on State Legislature to legislate “corporate societies” as
 falling under Entry 32 List II of the Seventh Schedule appended to Article 246 of the Constitution can be confined to incorporation,
 registration, administration, amalgamation, winding-up of the
 cooperative societies. Further, it was pointed out that the power
 under that Entry can be stretched to encompass all the activities of
 banking under Entry 45 of List I of the Seventh Schedule. It was
 pointed out that under the guise of legislation with respect to Entry
 32 of List I, the State Legislature cannot legislate with respect to
 the matters falling under Entry 45 of List I of the Seventh Schedule.
 Consequently, it was submitted that the Andhra Act is constitutionally
 invalid. Reference was also made to the judgment of this Court in Greater Bombay Cooperative Bank & Ors. Vs. United Yarn Tex (P) Ltd. &
 Ors. , (2007) 7 SCC 236. 10. We notice that the question of law raised in this case had come
 up for consideration before this Court while challenging the
 constitutional validity of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of
 Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997 (for short “the
 Tamil Nadu Act”), the Maharashtra Protection of Interests of
 Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999 (for short “the Maharashtra Act ”) as well as the Pondicherry Protection of Interests
 of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004 (for short “the Pondicherry Act ”). This Court in K. K. Baskaran Vs. State ,
 represented by its Secretary, Tamil Nadu and Others (2011) 3 SCC 793,
 while examining the constitutional validity of the Tamil Nadu Act,
 held that the enactment by the State Legislature is not in pith and
 substance referable to the legislative heads contained in List I of
 the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution though there may be some
 overlapping. The Court held that in pith and substance, the Act
 comes under the Entries in List II of the Seventh Schedule. In the
 said judgment , this Court placed specific reference to the Full Bench
 judgment of the Bombay High Court in Vijay C. Puljal Vs. State of
 Maharashtra (2005) 4 CTC 705. After scanning through the various
 provisions of the Tamil Nadu Act, this Court held as follows:- 16. The Bombay High Court has taken the view that the Maharashtra Act transgressed into the field reserved for
 Parliament. We do not agree. It is true that Section 58-A of the
 Companies Act has been upheld by this Court in Delhi Cloth and
 General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Union of India (1983) 4 SCC 166 and the
 provisions of Chapter III-C of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 were upheld by this Court in T. Velayudhan Achari v. Union of India (1993) 2 SCC 582. However, we are not in agreement with the Full
 Bench decision of the Bombay High Court that the subject-matter
 covered by the said Act falls squarely within the subject-matter of Sections 58-A and 58-AA of the Companies Act. 17. We are of the opinion that the impugned Tamil Nadu Act
 enacted by the State Legislature is not in pith and substance
 referable to the legislative heads contained in List I of the
 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution though there may be some
 overlapping. In our opinion, in pith and substance the said Act
 comes under the entries in List II (the State List) of the Seventh
 Schedule.”

 Further, in para 33 of the judgment, this Court expressed the
 following view: Vs. Government of Pondicherry (2012) 10 SCC 575, wherein this Court
 has exhaustively considered the various contentions raised on the
 constitutional validity of the Pondicherry Act in the light of the
 judgment in K.K. Baskaran’s case (supra). Contention was raised that
 the State lacked the legislative competence to enact the Pondicherry
 Act on the ground that the subject would fall under the Union
 jurisdiction. This Court, while deciding the constitutional validity
 of the Pondicherry Act , held as follows :- We find it difficult to accept that contention. What has been
 excluded from that definition is a Company registered under the Companies Act or a Corporation or a Cooperative Society owned and
 controlled by any State Government or the Central Government. The
 Society in question does not fall in that category. Consequently, the
 Co-operative Bank in question is also governed by the provisions of
 the Andhra Act. 14. In the circumstances, we find no merit in these Writ Petitions
 and the same are accordingly dismissed. ……………………………..J.
 (K. S. Radhakrishnan)

 ….………………………...J.
 A. K. Sikri)
 New Delhi,
 September 12, 2013.