1. The present petition is filed seeking quashing of FIR No.
 460/2018 dated 31.10.2018, registered at Police Station Fatehpur
 Beri, for offences under Sections 376 / 328 of the Indian Penal Code, Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 1 of 18 17:25:26 1860 (' IPC '), including all consequential proceedings arising
 therefrom. 2. The brief facts of the case are as follows: ANALYSIS 12. It is relevant to note that the petitioner has invoked the inherent
 jurisdiction of this Court seeking quashing of the present FIR. As
 noted above, the chargesheet as well as supplementary chargesheet
 has already been filed in the present case. 13. While this Court is empowered to quash criminal proceedings
 even after filing of chargesheet to secure the ends of justice or to
 prevent abuse of law, it is well settled that ordinarily, this Court
 should be cautious to exercise inherent jurisdiction and interfere with
 the proceedings after chargesheet has been filed after thorough
 investigation [Ref. State of Odisha v. Pratima Mohanty and Others : 14. It is also relevant to mention that the inherent jurisdiction can be
 exercised if it is found that the continuance of criminal proceedings
 would be a clear abuse of process of law. In case it is found that the
 proceedings are manifestly frivolous or vexatious or are instituted with
 the ulterior motive of wreaking vengeance, the Court ought to look
 into the FIR with care and a little more closely. 15. In the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal : 1992 Supp (1)
 SCC 335, the Hon'ble Apex Court had illustrated the category of
 cases where the Court may exercise its inherent jurisdiction to quash
 the proceedings. The relevant portion of the judgment is reproduced
 hereunder: (emphasis supplied) 16. As noted in the aforesaid judgment, the power to quash
 proceedings is to be exercised sparingly. While there is no absolute
 bar against quashing of cases involving allegations of rape, this Court
 considers it apposite to proceed with utmost caution and
 circumspection, especially considering that in cases relating to Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 8 of 18 17:25:26 allegations of sexual assault, the statement of the prosecutrix attains
 higher significance and the same is sufficient for conviction if it
 inspires confidence. The same is not to say that the testimony of a
 prosecutrix can never be doubted and the same is to be accepted as
 gospel truth. When compelling reasons exist to find that the statement
 of a witness is not wholly reliable, it would be open to the Court to
 seek corroboration [Ref. Nirmal Premkumar v. State : 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 260]. 17. This Court cannot be blind to the fact that with the passage of
 time, there has been an increasing tendency of weaponizing law to
 wreak vengeance after souring of relationships, which has a chilling
 effect on genuine survivors. False cases have the effect of tarnishing
 an individual's reputation in society and it is the duty of the Court to
 take into account attending circumstances as well as the material
 collected during investigation [Ref. Mohammad Wajid v. State of
 U.P. : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 951]. This Court is thus burdened with
 the responsibility of balancing equities and limiting itself to an
 assessment of ascertaining whether the allegations are frivolous or if
 no case worthy of trial is made out without conducting a mini enquiry
 into the veracity of the allegations. 18. It is the essentially the case of the prosecution that the petitioner
 had established sexual relations with Respondent No.2 on the false
 pretext of marriage on a regular basis and also taken money from
 Respondent No.2. Allegedly, the petitioner had first forcibly Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 9 of 18 17:25:26 established sexual relations with Respondent No.2 in June, 2018 by
 making her drink a cold drink, which made her dizzy. Thereafter, the
 petitioner is alleged to have established sexual relations with
 Respondent No.2 on a regular basis on the false promise of marriage.
 As per the statement of Respondent No.2 that was recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC, the petitioner had last established sexual
 relations with Respondent No.2 on 13.10.2018 when he had come
 from Pune to collect his clothes. It is also alleged that the petitioner
 threatened to make the intimate photographs and videos of
 Respondent No.2 viral. 19. At the outset, it is pertinent to note that although it is alleged
 that the first incident of rape took place on some day in June, 2018,
 however, the complaint was only made in October, 2018 after the
 relationship soured pursuant to a fight. The allegations thus essentially
 relate to sexual relations being established on the false promise to
 marriage. Even the allegations of unnatural sex pertain to the duration
 where the parties were in a consensual relationship as per Respondent
 No.2. 20. The relationship between the parties continued over five months
 and the complaint was made after the petitioner apparently switched
 off his phone pursuant to a fight and stopped talking to Respondent
 No.2. In the recent case of Mahesh Damu Khare v. State of
 Maharashtra : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3471, the Hon'ble Apex Court
 reiterated the legal principles concerning consensual relationships and Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 10 of 18 17:25:26 the initiation of criminal proceedings on allegations of sexual
 relationship on the false promise of marriage. The Hon'ble Apex
 Court quashed the FIR against the appellant therein and held as under : (emphasis supplied) 21. In usual circumstances, considering the duration of the
 relationship between the parties as well as the assertion by Respondent
 No.2 that the parties got engaged in August, 2018 and their marriage
 was fixed, this Court would have been motivated to quash the FIR on
 the aforesaid aspects alone as it is settled law that mere breach of a
 promise to marry at a belated stage after significant time has elapsed
 cannot be termed as a false promise. However, it is the admitted case
 of the petitioner that he was himself married at the relevant time. 22. In a case such as this one that is said to be motivated by ulterior
 mala fide motives, this Court is required to look into the attending
 circumstances and read between the lines to ascertain as to whether a
 prima facie case is made out. 23. The petitioner has sought to cast aspersions on the character of
 Respondent No.2 by alluding to her implication in a case for offences
 under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 , on account of the
 previous cases instituted by Respondent No.2 on similar allegations
 which resulted in acquittal (that is, State v. Narender and SC No.
 11/2012 titled State v. Shiv Kumar Yadav ) and since Respondent No.2
 has herself stated that she demanded money for giving company to the
 petitioner. 24. In the opinion of this Court, the aforesaid factors alone cannot
 negate the possibility of the allegations being truthful. The character
 of a victim, no matter how blemished, cannot be weaponised against
 her to imply consent. Even a willing companion who accompanies a
 client in lieu of some consideration can be the victim of rape. Merely
 because Respondent No.2 was willing to accompany the petitioner for
 some money, the same does not indicate that she was also willing to
 establish sexual relations with him. This Court thus considers it
 apposite desist from making any remarks against Respondent No.2 in
 relation to her prior complaints as well as the other allegations made in
 the pleadings before this Court. 25. At the same time, this Court cannot remain blind to the
 implausibility of the allegations as well as the manifest discrepancies
 in the versions of Respondent No.2 which don't merit continuation of
 prosecution due to the dearth of corroborating evidence. In the FIR as
 well as in her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC which was Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 13 of 18 17:25:26 recorded on 01.11.2018, Respondent No.2 has specifically asserted
 that she had met the petitioner in the year 2018 and they had
 exchanged numbers. On the other hand, during her MLC, she stated
 that she had known the petitioner for two and a half years. It is also
 relevant to note that as per the chargesheet, Respondent No.2 had
 stated that the first incident of rape where the accused had mixed some
 seductive substance in her drink took place in March, 2018 rather than
 in June, 2018 as has been alleged by Respondent No.2 in her statement
 under Section 164 of the CrPC. The same skews the entire timeline of
 the alleged relationship between the parties as well. 26. Moreover, it is also relevant to note that Respondent No.2 had
 not made any allegation in respect of her feeling dizzy on drinking any
 cold drink in the initial complaint. No independent witness or
 evidence was found in this respect either, even though, Respondent
 No.2 was allegedly spiked in a crowded club where she apparently
 worked at. Similarly, although the offence under Section 377 of the
 IPC was added by way of supplementary chargesheet on the basis of
 the statement of Respondent No.2 that she even suffered infection due
 to unnatural sex and she received treatment at "various" hospitals, no
 such Hospital was mentioned by name, and furthermore, no
 corroborative evidence has been forthcoming in this regard either. 27. Apart from the statement of Respondent No.2, no corroborative
 material in the nature of photographs or videos or conversations
 reflecting blackmail were found to make out a prima facie case in Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 14 of 18 17:25:26 favour of the prosecution. The allegations of blackmail are peculiar as
 well. It is alleged by Respondent No.2 in her statement under Section
 164 of the CrPC that pursuant to the parties establishing sexual
 relations for the first time, the petitioner blackmailed her to leak the
 intimate videos of Respondent No.2, despite which, the parties entered
 into a consensual relationship which continued for over five months. 28. The entire premise of the case which involves the parties
 entering into a relationship and entering into sexual relations on the
 false promise to marry only a few days after meeting appears to be
 doubtful given the lack of any cogent material to support the same. All
 the factors point toward the allegations being made with a motive to
 implicate the petitioner. 29. The only other material is the photographs of sagai and the
 petitioner booking a venue for the ceremony. The petitioner has
 asserted that he was blackmailed into doing the same and he is a
 victim of a honey trap perpetrated by Respondent No.2, and there can
 be no false promise to marriage as the petitioner as well as Respondent
 No.2 were married at the relevant time. Reliance has been placed on
 the judgment of acquittal dated 05.04.2017, in SC No. 9054/2016
 titled State v. Narender , where the accused therein was acquitted of
 the charge of rape on false pretext of marriage as Respondent No.2
 had been found to be married to one Pradeep Kumar. It is argued that
 even otherwise, the relationship between the parties who were
 consenting adults cannot be construed to be rape merely due to Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 15 of 18 17:25:26 subsequent souring of relationship. It is contended on behalf of
 Respondent No.2 that the finding of Respondent No.2 being married is
 wrong. An affidavit by one Pradeep Kumar is also annexed to endorse
 the assertion of the marital status of Respondent No.2. 30. Admittedly, the judgment of acquittal was never challenged and
 the same has attained finality, due to which, no benefit of the affidavit
 can be accorded to Respondent No.2 at this juncture as the same
 would encompass venturing into the correctness of the findings by the
 learned Trial Court in another case. 31. Another aspect which cannot be ignored is that as per the
 statement of Respondent No.2 that was recorded under Section 164 of
 the CrPC as well as the FIR, the parties continued to engage in
 physical relations for almost half an year. Continuation of sexual
 relations over such period between consenting adults cannot be said to
 be borne out of any false promise of marriage. 32. Even otherwise, in the opinion of this Court, it appears to be
 improbable that Respondent No.2 was ignorant of the marital relation
 of the petitioner, especially when as per Respondent No.2, the parties
 cohabitated for some time. It cannot be ignored that as per Respondent
 No.2, she had met the family of the petitioner and she had a good
 relation with them as well. If the same is to be believed, the petitioner
 could not have run a ruse so elaborate of being unmarried for so long
 without assistance of his family members, none of whom have been
 implicated for facilitating the crime. Peculiarly, while Respondent Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 16 of 18 17:25:26 No.2 has asserted that she had good relations with the family of the
 petitioner, her statements have been abysmally bereft of particulars in
 relation to the identity of such family members which could have lent
 credibility to her case. It appears to be unbelievable that none of such
 family members mentioned the marital status of the petitioner or that
 he is the father of two kids to Respondent No.2, and she continued the
 relation in ignorance of the same. 33. Having found that the versions of Respondent No.2 are riddled
 with flagrant inconsistencies that go to root of the matter and that the
 allegations are bereft of material particulars, which are further
 rendered brittle due to absence of any cogent corroborating evidence,
 in the opinion of this Court, the present case is not one where the
 totality of the circumstances give rise to grave suspicion against the
 accused petitioner for framing of charges. In such circumstances,
 continuation of proceedings after half a decade will be an abuse of
 process of law. 34. It is also pertinent to note that the matter has been pending
 before this Court since the year 2020. Although ordinarily this Court
 may have refrained from interfering with the prosecution of the case
 after investigation is complete and would have let the matter proceed
 for consideration on charge, considering the peculiar facts of the case,
 subjecting the petitioner to suffer the tribulations of trial in such
 circumstances would be miscarriage of justice. If the Courts were to
 refrain from exercising their inherent discretion even in such cases that Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:05.11.2025 CRL.M.C. 483/2020 Page 17 of 18 17:25:26 are based on unconvincing allegations which are bereft of any
 corroborating evidence, the same would render the true spirit of such
 power vested in the Courts as otiose. 35. Considering the aforesaid discussion, in the opinion of this
 Court, there is no material which 36. In view of the above, FIR No. 460/2018, including all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom, is quashed. 37. The present petition stands allowed in the aforesaid terms.