Has your boss ever asked you for money, gift cards on WhatsApp? If yes, you might want to double-check the profile and mobile number of the person texting you.

Impersonation cases on WhatsApp and Emails are on the rise in India. From government chiefs, Adar the vaccine giant Adar Poonawala to companies like WebEngage and CleverTap, many big-shot persons have been impersonated by the scamsters. What’s more, I too received an email from someone posing as our editor, Nikhil Pahwa. Of course, I did not send the demanded money!

But, a handful of people from other companies did fall for the trap.

One can always question how can someone just send in money online without double-checking? While awareness about cyber-frauds and other know-how is a discussion that follows, the boss-trick definitely seems to be working out for the fraudsters.

If you find yourself scammed at some point, don’t shy away from seeking help. Information is your weapon, so read on for exactly what this is all about and how the legal system and police are dealing with such cyber crimes.

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

PLATFORM REGULATION, FREE SPEECH

Google’s non-compliance is irking startups: It was ADIF that took Google to CCI over its Play Store policies back in October 2020, and in October 2022, the startups body finally won a favourable ruling, but now it’s pissed that Google isn’t making the changes ordered by the competition watchdog. Will ADIF take this up with CCI or in court? We’ll have to wait and see. [ Read ? , 2 minutes]

WhatsApp’s privacy update can wait: The WhatsApp privacy policy hearing in the Indian Supreme Court is just getting interesting. From informed consent to surveillance capitalism, the parties raised critical points addressing larger issues of big tech data collection practices. While the case is again deferred till April, the apex court has directed WhatsApp to put up ads on not mandating its new rules. [ Read , 4 minutes]

Are transparency reports helpful: Major streaming platforms continue to publish transparency reports as mandated under the IT Rules, 2021 even though the Supreme Court deliberates upon their legal validity. It is clear that companies do not want to rub up the Indian government in the wrong way but it is unclear as to how these reports are helpful . [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

RTI shows 5k URLs blocked in 2022 alone! That’s right, the government resorted to its old favourite, Section 69A of the IT Act to take-down nearly 4,987 URLs including social media pages or specific pages. Reason? Well, in the name of Rule 16 of the IT Rules why should the government tell you? Asks MeitY. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

DIGITAL PAYMENTS

Soon available in a store near you: You’ve probably heard about the digital rupee (e₹). It’s kinda of like cryptocurrency, but not really. RBI would probably say that it takes the best of crypto and leaves the worst. Anyways, we don’t have the space to get into that discussion here, but you might soon be able to pay using digital rupee in your nearest Reliance Retail store as the retailer becomes the first large brand to start accepting this form of payment. [ Read , ? 2 minutes]

SURVEILLANCE

Has the government lost interest in Smart Cities? FM Nirmala Sitharaman did not even both mentioning smart cities when introducing Budget 2023. Instead, she talked about making cities more sustainable. Funds also appear to have lowered as per Budget Estimates. Is this because this Mission is more than half-way done or is the government changing its tact? [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

REAL MONEY GAMING AND GAMBLING

Incomplete homework : The Andhra Pradesh High Court told the state government to set up a committee. It has to answer a long question that no two people have the same answer on: is online rummy a game of skill or a gambling game? Without that clarity, the Court can’t decide on whether the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to ban online gambling in 2020 was fair or not. Two years later, we’re back to the drawing board. [ Read , ? 2 minutes ]

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

ChatGPT enters Teams meeting: If you’re tired of taking notes, Microsoft has brought in ChatGPT to take notes for Teams Premium users. Soon the AI will take minutes of the meeting, create a task-based list based on the same, oh, an even record when a person left or entered a meeting. We don’t know about Big Brother but will be ChatGPT watching [ Read , 2 minutes ]]

Elon Musk’s Starlink Eyes Philippine Rollout in Early 2023 [ Read ] (Cecilia Yap/Bloomberg)

Meta Stock Notches Best Day In 10 Years [ Read ] (Derek Saul/Forbes)

Big Tech earnings show digital ads market not out of the woods [ Read ] (Sheila Dang/Reuters)

Binance Returns to South Korea’s Crypto Market Through a Stake in the GOPAX Exchange [ Read ] (Muyao Shen/Bloomberg)

Tech earnings hit pause button on market rally [ Read ] (Caroline Valetkevitch and Herbert Lash/Reuters)

Apple reports first decline in revenue in three-and-a-half years [ Read ] (Patrick McGee/Financial Times)

Netflix’s Password Sharing Crackdown—And What Amazon Prime, Hulu, Others Are Doing—Explained [ Read ] (Anthony Tellez/Forbes)

Google’s advertising sales fall in sharper than expected slowdown [ Read ] (Richard Waters/Financial Times)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event