Hon'ble Shashi Kant,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Sudhir Agarwal, J.) 1.	The contemnor is present in person and stated that whatever reply he intended to file, is already on record and now he does not want to file any reply or adduce any evidence, therefore, the Court should decide the matter after considering his submissions. 2.	Sri Sudhir Mehrotra, learned Special Counsel nominated by the Court to assist in this criminal contempt has been heard in support of proceedings. We may also put on record that a number of counsels have put in appearance on behalf of contemnor, whose names are also shown in the cause list, instead the contemnor appeared in person and requested that he should be permitted to defend in person which we have allowed. The contemnor has been heard in person at length. 3.	This criminal contempt application was registered on receiving a letter dated 20.04.2012 from District Judge, Budaun, addressed to Registrar General of this Court and enclosing therewith reference letter dated 16.4.2012 of Sri Akhilesh Kumar, Additional Civil Judge, Senior Division, Budaun. The reference was received in this court on 27.04.2012, whereafter it was placed before Hon'ble the Chief Justice and His Lordship approved the same on 02.07.2012 to place it before the Bench dealing with criminal contempt for initiating appropriate contempt proceedings. Pursuant thereto, a Division Bench, on 18.07.2012, having been satisfied, prima facie, that Sri Magendra Pal Singh, Advocate (hereinafter referred to as "contemnor"), practising in District Judgeship, Badaun, has attempted to scandalize Presiding Officer as also the Court and lowered down authority of the Court, took cognizance of the reference and issued notice to the contemnor. The contemnor put in appearance and submitted reply along with his affidavit dated 17.10.2012. In para 6, he said : 4.	Thus, whatever has been said and alleged against the Court and Presiding Officer, is ex facie admitted by contemnor but his stand is that he represented his client, and, on his instructions, said all those things, therefore, contempt proceedings should be initiated against his client. He has also said that the same having been initiated only against contemnor, is malicious and amounts to abuse of power. 5.	Then in para 7, he said that his detailed counter affidavit is under preparation but still he is tendering apology with a request to drop contempt proceedings. It reads as under : 6.	The manner and tenor of tendering apology is ex facie neither bona fide nor showed genuine remorse on the part of contemnor nor could be said to be unconditional and hence not accepted. 7.	The contemnor then filed a counter affidavit sworn on 04.12.2012, in which he firstly raised plea of limitation alleging that contempt proceeding was initiated after expiry of more than one year from the date of alleged contempt, hence, is barred by limitation under Section 20 of Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as "Act, 1971"). He says that this question should be decided first in which he attempted to explain entire incident in his own way. It would be useful to reproduce paragraphs 4 to 18 of the said affidavit as under : 8.	Having gone through the reply and affidavit of contemnor, this Court found that there was no reason to drop the proceedings. The apology tendered by contemnor was neither unconditional nor bona fide nor showed genuine remorse on his part. The Court declined to accept contemnor's request for dropping proceedings and on 17.12.2013, framed following charge : 9.	The contemnor filed reply/rebuttal to the charge vide affidavit sworn on 09.5.2014. Again basic facts stated in his earlier affidavit were reiterated. However, he added some further reply to the charge. The averments contained in this reply from paras 2 to 18 are reproduced as under : 10.	He also appended copies of applications etc., which he had submitted in the Court of Additional Civil Judge. We shall discuss and refer the same later on, as and when it would be necessary. 11.	While advancing oral submissions, the contemnor reiterated, Firstly; contempt proceeding initiated against him is barred by limitation and therefore, deserve to be dismissed; Secondly, in any case, no contempt is made out since he has been discharging his duties towards his client and whatever the client required, he did, therefore, contemptuous attitude cannot be attributed to him; Thirdly, that application was written on direction of client reproducing his desire hence contemnor is not guilty; Fourthly, there is no mens rea; Fifthly, there is no publication by submission of application dated 10.4.2012 since it was given to the Steno and read in Chamber; Sixthly, a fair criticism of judicial act is no contempt and proceeding in chamber also does not amount to contempt; Seventhly, that reproduction of true and accurate report does not amount to contempt, and; lastly, he contended that in any case, this is the highest court of the State which exercise its authority with magnanimity and benevolence, therefore, it should condone the entire incident and tender apology to the contemnor by closing the proceedings. 12.	We have given our anxious considerations, seriously and dispassionately to all the submission. We have also looked into the record available as also the relevant statutory provisions and the authorities on the subject. There are, broadly three questions : 13.	The admitted facts, as borne out from record and whatever has been discussed above, are that the contemnor was representing judgment debtor in Execution Case No.10 of 2009. On 16.04.2011, contemnor moved an application seeking adjournment. The Court, however, passed order for execution of decree and did not accept adjournment. The contemnor then filed application no.47-C on 16.4.2011 making allegations of predetermined mind on the part of Presiding Officer and also that he is proceeding in the matter for his personal interest and illegal reasons. A photocopy of the application is on record. It shows that it was received in the office of Additional Civil Judge on 16.4.2011 at 3.10 P.M.. Thereafter, in another Execution Case No.34 of 1998 ( Ganga Devi Vs. Chandra Pal ), contemnor moved an application on behalf of judgment debtor Amar Pal Singh, S/o Chandra Pal Singh stating that he has moved a transfer application in the Court of District Judge, Budaun in which 20.05.2011 is fixed, therefore, no order should be passed on execution. This application was opposed by decree holder. 14.	On the record, contemnor has also placed an application no.143C filed on 11.09.2009 in Execution No.34 of 2009 ( Ganga Devi Vs. Chandra Pal ) stating that judgment debtor has filed subsequently original suit no.309 of 2009 for declaring sale deeds void and during pendency of the aforesaid suit, execution proceedings should be deferred. With the similar request, another application, paper no.144C, was also filed on 07.11.2009 in Execution No.34 of 1998. 15.	Application No.146C was filed on 23.4.2011 stating that Presiding Officer of the Court passed order without hearing counsel for judgment debtor, who did not appear due to strike of advocates. The allegations made in the application dated 23.4.2011, paper no.146C, reads as under : 16.	With respect to allegations made by contemnor in application 146-C in Execution Case No.34 of 1998, Judicial Officer concerned required him to show cause why contempt proceedings may not be initiated. The contemnor submitted reply dated 10.5.2011 admitting drafting and filing of said application but took a defence that it was on the instructions of his client and therefore, no contempt has been committed by him. He further stated that assertion of facts, correctly, do not amount to contempt. 17.	It is said that with the intervention of office bearers of Bar Association, Presiding Officer deferred further proceedings for making reference for contempt but then contemnor submitted another application/letter dated 10.4.2012, in which he again reiterated the same allegations and, thereafter, reference for contempt has been made. 18.	We now propose to consider questions and issues raised in this matter in the light of the aforesaid factual background and relevant provisions. The first question raised by contemnor is regarding limitation. 19. Section 20 of Act, 1971 reads as under : (emphasis added) 20.	The limitation of one year provided under Section 20 of Act, 1971 commences from the date on which contempt is alleged to have been committed. The question is, what is the date on which the contempt is said to have been committed or what is a date of commencement of limitation under Section 20 of Act, 1971. 21.	From reference order as also charge framed, we find that there are two dates, one is contemnor's application dated 23.4.2011 in which he made certain scurrilous allegations against Judicial Officer. The second in the chain of events is dated 10.04.2012 when again he repeated and reiterated what he has said earlier in his application dated 23.04.2011. It is a continuous chain of events, which commenced on 23.4.2011 and recommenced/continued/repeated on 10.04.2012. Thus, for the purpose of Section 20 of Act, 1971, period of one year is to be taken from 10.04.2012 when contemnor repeated, in continuation, within one year, what he has done on 23.04.2011. 22.	The contemnor, however, urged that there are four applications and it is the first date when the contempt commence, which will be material and not any subsequent one. It is now doubt true that in the entire chain of events, there are four applications submitted by contemnor, which formed chain of the contempt alleged to have been committed by him. The first started with his application dated 23.4.2011 in Execution No.34 of 1998, in which he made following allegations : 23.	Then comes his application/letter dated 02.5.2011 in Execution Case No.34 of 1998 wherein he sought certain explanation/reply from Judicial Officer. The third document is dated 10.5.2011 sent by contemnor in which he admits of submitting application dated 23.4.2011 and 02.5.2011 though alleging that he sent it on the instructions and as per desire of his client and mention of correct and fair facts does not amount to contempt. He said, if the Presiding Officer is ready to withdraw his notice, the contemnor shall also withdraw his notice dated 02.5.2011. The forth document is dated 10.4.2012 wherein he referred to his earlier documents and said, since no specific reply has been given by Judicial Officer concerned, therefore, there is an admission by silence of the allegations of bribe levelled against Judicial Officer by contemnor at the instance of his client. The relevant allegations in the letter dated 10.4.2012 are as under : 24.	At the end of the application/letter dated 10.4.2012 the contemnor put a note as under : 25.	A photocopy of the aforesaid affidavit of Sri Amar Pal Singh is also on record, which is said to have been sworn on 6.5.2011 and therein also aforesaid allegations have been reiterated. 26.	The facts clearly shows that it is a case where serious allegations have been made by contemnor against Presiding Officer of the Court below not only on 23.4.2011 but the process has continued thereafter for almost a year and the last such date is 10.4.2012. The act of criminal contempt in this case, is not a one time incident but it has continued to have been committed by the contemnor continuously even after 23.4.2011 and therefore, for the purpose of Section 20 of Act, 1971, the last letter sent by contemnor i.e. 10.4.2012 would also be a date on which alleged contempt has been committed and limitation of one year would commence therefrom also. The letter dated 10.4.2012 amount to acknowledgement and renewal of what was done earlier. 27.	The reference was made by Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division) Budaun vide letter dated 16.4.2012 with a covering letter of District Judge, Badaun dated 20.4.2012 and it was received in this Court on 27.4.2012. The criminal contempt was registered on 17.7.2012, and, on 18.7.2012, notice was issued to the contemnor to show cause as to why he should not be punished for the act of contempt, as mentioned in reference letter sent by Sri Akhilesh Kumar, Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division), Budaun. 28. In the light of the decision in Pallav Seth Vs. Custodian , 2001 (7) SCC 549, whether we take the date when reference was received in the Court or the date when notice was issued, in either way, contempt proceedings initiated by this Court against contemnor is within limitation of one year, taking into consideration continued act of contempt committed by contemnor, which commenced on 23.04.2011, repeated and recommenced on 10.04.2012. Thus, we have no hesitation in holding that contempt proceedings, by no stretch of imagination, can be said to be barred by limitation and it is well within the period of one year, as contemplated in Section 20 of Act, 1971. 29.	Question No.(i) is answered accordingly i.e. against the contemnor. 30.	Then comes second question whether contemnor is guilty of charge levelled against him. The documents noted above, and the context thereof written by contemnor, are admitted by him. His defence is that these allegations were made by him under the instructions and directions of his client Amar Pal Singh, in discharge of his duties as an advocate and counsel towards said client. Since he has reproduced sentiments and instructions of his client, in discharge of his professional duties, therefore, he is not guilty of contempt, but, at the best, his client may be guilty and proceedings ought have been initiated against him. It is further said that whatever has been written is nothing but a fair and correct statement of proceedings which have taken place, therefore, it does not amount to 'contempt' in view of Section 4 of Act, 1971. Lastly, defence is that since various orders passed by Presiding officer were in utter violation of principles of natural justice, as also various provisions of law, the contemnor was justified in drawing inference otherwise against conduct and integrity of Judicial Officer and that has been reflected in the words and looking to the entire facts and circumstances, it cannot be said that there was any otherwise intention of contemnor in maligning reputation of Presiding Officer of the Court, undermining authority of Court or scandalizing the Court. The contemnor, an advocate is also an officer of the Court. He owe a duty to the Court also. 31.	The first shade of defence in respect of question no.(ii) is that, contemnor has simply discharged his duty as an advocate to his client and, therefore, himself is not guilty of any contempt. We find no force in the submission. 32.	The defence of contemnor that he owes a duty to his client and has written what his client has instructed cannot absolve him from his own responsibility and duty he owe to the Court. In Lalit Mohan Das Vs. Advocate General Orissa , AIR 1957 SC 250, the Court said that a Member of Bar undoubtedly owes a duty to his client and must place before the Court all that can fairly and reasonably be submitted on behalf of his client. He may even submit that a particular order is not correct and ask for a review thereof. At the same time, a member of the Bar is an Officer of the Court and owes duty to the Court in which he is appearing. He must uphold the dignity and decorum of the Court. He must not do anything to bring the Court itself into disrepute. If a lawyer/member of the Bar overstep the limits of propriety and made imputations of partiality and unfairness etc. against Presiding Officer of the Court, openly, such matter and such conduct of the member of Bar brings into disrepute the whole system of justice i.e. the administration of justice, hence he would be guilty of committing 'criminal contempt' of the Court. 33.	Thus, mere fact that applications or letters, as the case may be, submitted before the Court have been signed by him as an advocate would not absolve him from his own responsibility of committing criminal contempt, if, whatever has been said by him in those applications and the contents thereof satisfy the term "criminal contempt" as defined under Section 2(c) of Act, 1971. 34.	The term "criminal contempt" has been defined under Section 2(c) of Act, 1971 as under : (emphasis added) 35.	Taking substance of various applications submitted by contemnor before Court below, insinuations and allegations made by him are; (i) the Judicial Officer concerned has conspired with decree holder, has taken bribe, therefore, there is no hope of justice to judgment debtor; (ii) Judicial Officer concerned was so much overwhelmed due to bribe; (iii) Presiding Officer concerned has conceived judiciary as a playground; and (iv) Law and justice is always ignored by Presiding Officer concerned. Allegations ex facie scandalize and lower down authority of the Court. 36.	It is tried to suggest that these are the allegations against Judge individual and, therefore, cannot come within the purview of "criminal contempt" under Section 2(c) of Act, 1971 but at the best, may constitute an offence of defamation under Section 499 IPC or Section 228 IPC i.e. intentional insult or interruption to public servant sitting in judicial proceeding and Judicial Officer was free to take appropriate criminal proceedings against contemnor but no contempt would lie. We find no substance in the submission. The allegations are not against individual officer regarding his integrity but in respect to his functioning as a Judicial Officer in the Court and in respect of various orders passed by him. When these allegations are made, public confidence in the impartiality, fairness and independence of institution as a whole is bound to shrink. Hence, it is bound to scandalise and lower down the authority of the Court. 37.	A similar argument was considered in State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Revashankar , AIR 1959 SC 102 and rejected. Similar allegations were made in that case also against a Magistrate. The Court said that aspersions made prima facie show that they were much more than a mere insult to the learned Magistrate. In effect, they scandalised the Court in such a way as to create distrust in the popular mind and impair the confidence of people in Courts. 38.	Subsequently again, In Re: Arundhati Roy, AIR 2002 SC 1375, the Court has observed that offence under IPC is different than a contempt of Court. The law of defamation under Penal Code cannot be equated with the law of contempt of court in general terms. The Court referred to a Privy Council's decision in Surender Nath Vs Chief Justice and Judges of the High Court, 10 Cal. 109 wherein it has been observed that "although contempt may include defamation, yet an offence of contempt is something more than mere defamation and is of a different character". 39.	The Court further referred to its earlier decision in Bathina Ramakrishna Reddy Vs. State of Madras , 1952 CriLJ 832 holding: 40.	Willmot C.J. in Wilmot's Opinion page 256; Rex b. Davies 30 at page 40-41 said : This passage has been quoted with approval in Re : Arundhati Roy (supra) also. 41.	What is made punishable in Indian Penal Code is the offence of defamation as defamation and not as contempt of court. If the defamation of a subordinate court amounts to contempt of Court, proceedings can certainly be taken under Section 2 of Act, 1971, quite apart from the fact that other remedy may be open to the aggrieved officer under Section 499 IPC. 42.	The contemnor said that whatever he has said was a correct and fair statement of fact. Here he tried to bring Section 13 of Act, 1971 which has been amended permitting 'truth' as a defence in contempt matter. It reads as under : 43.	However, in the present case, contemnor did not make any request before the Court to show that whatever he has said was truth. He did not make any request for adducing any evidence. In his pleadings, he has referred to desire of his client Amar Pal Singh. He has also said, when he visited chamber of Judicial Officer, he was accompanied by two advocates Omkar Singh Yadav and Laxman Prasad. He has further said that on 10.05.2011, President and Secretary of District Bar Association tried to pacify problem between Judicial Officer and him. All or any of them could have been produced to support whatever has been said by contemnor to prove the allegations but nothing has been done. No attempt is made to show that allegations of bribe, conspiracy with decree holder etc. represented true facts. No material has been brought on record and no evidence has been adduced to prove it. 44.	Defence of 'truth' is not a shield to protect someone's ex facie acts constituting contempt, who is guilty of levelling serious allegations against Judge in respect of his judicial functioning and has tried to lower down the authority of the Court. 45.	The extract of various letters written by contemnor and submitted to Presiding Officer of Court below leave no manner of doubt that the same have the effect of scandalizing and prejudicing not only the Judge but the Court also. It also amount to interfering with the administration of justice. 46. In Rachapudi Subba Rao Vs. Advocate General, Andhra Pradesh , AIR 1981 SC 755, the contemnor Rachapudi Subba Rao served a notice upon Additional Subordinate Judge making various allegations in respect of a judgment given by him. The allegations of bad faith, malice, partiality etc. were made. The proceedings of contempt under Section 12 read with 10 and 15 of Act, 1971 were initiated. The Court held that tone, temper and contents of notice impute malice, partiality and dishonesty to the Subordinate Judge in judicial adjudication, constitute a deliberate attempt to scandalise the judge, to terribly embarrass him, and, to lower the authority of his office and the Court. 47. In Shamsher Singh Bedi Vs. High Court of Punjab and Haryana, 1996 (7) SCC 99, the contemnor Shamsher Singh Bedi, an advocate faced criminal contempt proceedings. One Gurdial Singh was arrested and remanded to judicial custody. A bail application was filed before the Magistrate, which was rejected. Gurdial Singh served a notice upon the Magistrate, which was drafted by advocate Shamsher Singh Bedi. The notice contains certain remarks, scandalous in nature. The Court held that notice having been drafted by advocate, he cannot escape responsibility in his professional capacity. The allegation being scandalous in nature, they tend to pervert the course of justice and likely to interfere wit the proper administration of justice, hence, amount to criminal contempt. The Court also observed that it is not necessary to show that there has been actual interference with administration of justice by such remarks and, it is enough, if it is likely or tends in any way to interfere with the proper administration of law. 48.	Insulting a Judge engaged in judicial work or imputing corrupt practices to him in discharge of his official duties is a very grave contempt. It is nothing but scandalising the Court. A Division Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court in State of Andhra Pradesh Vs. Dr. A.Gopal Menon , 1996(3) ALD 675 said : 49.	If an impression is made in the minds of public that Judges of the Court act on extraneous considerations in deciding cases, confidence of the litigants, in particular, and, public in general, in the administration of justice is bound to be undermined. No greater mischief than that can possibly be imagined. 50.	The allegation of mala fide, bad intention against a Judge in respect to a judicial orders clearly amounts to scandalizing the Court and is a "criminal contempt". Vilificatory criticism of a Judge functioning in the court is nothing but a clear criminal contempt since it not only affects the 'administration of justice' but also lowers the authority and dignity of the Court. It creates a distress in the public mind as to the capacity of Judge to meet out even-handed justice. Reckless and scurrilous attack made against a Judge, imputing oblique motives in discharge of his judicial functions and suggesting unholy acquaintance and constant contacts with one of the litigant to favour him/them for granting relief amounts to criminal contempt. 51.	In re : S.Mulgaokar 1978 (3) SCC 339, the Court said that judiciary cannot be immune from criticism, but, when that criticism is based on obvious distortion or gross mis-statement and made in a manner which seems designed to lower respect for judiciary and destroy public confidence, it cannot be ignored. When there appears some scheme and a design to bring about results which must damage confidence in judicial system and demoralize Judges by making malicious attacks, anyone interested in maintaining high standards of fearless, impartial, and unbending justice will feel perturbed. 52.	In re: Vinay Chandra Mishra, AIR 1995 SC 2348, the Court observed that normally, no Judge takes action for in facie curiae contempt against lawyer unless he is impelled to do so. It is not the heat generated in the arguments but the language used, the tone and the manner in which it is expressed and intention behind using it which determine whether it was calculated to insult, show disrespect, to overbear and overawe the court and to threaten and obstruct the course of justice. It was also observed that making allegations or aspersions on the integrity of Judge is not to be misunderstood as a outspoken fearless attitude of an advocate. Brazenness is not outspokenness and arrogance is not fearlessness. Use of intemperate language is not assertion of right nor is a threat an argument. Humility is not servility and courtesy and politeness are not lack of dignity. Rule of law is the foundation of the democratic society. If judiciary is to perform its duties and its functions effectively and true to the spirit with which they are sacredly entrusted to it, the dignity and authority of the courts have to be respected and protected at all costs. The foundation of judiciary is trust and confidence of people in its ability to deliver fearless and impartial justice. When foundation itself is shaken by acts which tend to create disaffection and disrespect for authority of court by creating distrust in its working, the edifice of the judicial system gets eroded. 53.	Of late, we find a deep increase in tendency of advocates in making allegations against Presiding Officers of the Courts and thereafter also try to justify their allegations by filing transfer applications with such allegations. In the context of allegations of bias etc. against Presiding Officers made in transfer applications filed under Section 24 C.P.C. Or 407 Cr.P.C ., the Court, time and again has held that apprehension of bias must be shown bona fide and reasonably. It should be substantiated by material placed before the Court. Reminding the duties of advocate, in Smt. Sudha Sharma Vs. Ram Naresh Jaiswal , AIR 1990 MP 320, the Court said that a foremost duty casts upon the counsel concerned while drafting and making allegations against the Judge concerned, is to take utmost care and caution in making wild allegations against the Presiding Judge. The counsel should realise that he is officer of the Court. Introducing fanciful and imaginary allegations for harbouring apprehension that fair and impartial justice would not be done should be avoided. Mere suspicion by party is not sufficient. There must be reasonable apprehension based on material. 54. 	The justice delivery system knows no caste, religion, creed, colour etc. It is a system following principle of black and white, i.e., truth and false. Whatever is unfair, that is identified and given its due treatment and whatever is good is retained. Whoever suffers injustice is attempted to be given justice and that is called dispensation of justice. The prevailing system of dispensation of justice in Country, presently, has different tiers. At the ground level, the Courts are commonly known as "Subordinate Judiciary" and they form basis of administration of justice. Sometimes it is said that subordinate judiciary forms very backbone of administration of justice. Though there are various other kinds of adjudicatory forums, like, Nyaya Panchayats, Village Courts and then various kinds of Tribunals etc. but firstly they are not considered to be the regular Courts for adjudication of disputes, and, secondly the kind and degree of faith, people have in regular established Courts, is yet to be developed in other forums. In common parlance, the regular Courts, known for appropriate adjudication of disputes basically constitute subordinate judiciary, namely, the District Court; the High Courts and the Apex Court. 55. 	The hierarchy gives appellate and supervisory powers in various ways. The administrative control of subordinate judiciary has been conferred upon High Court, which is the highest Court at provincial level and is under constitutional obligation to see effective functioning of subordinate Courts by virtue of power conferred by Article 235 read with 227 of the Constitution. No similar power like Article 235 , in respect to High Court is exercisable by Apex Court, though it is the highest Court of land. Its judgments are binding on all. Every order and judgment of any Court or Tribunal etc., in the Country, is subject to judicial review by Apex Court. This is the power on judicial side. Thus scheme under the Constitution imposes heavy duty and responsibility upon High Court to ensure due or proper honour of subordinate Court and Judge and to save them from such scurrilous attack. 56. 	In Ajay Kumar Pandey, Advocate, In Re:, (1998) 7 SCC 248, the Court said that superior Courts, i.e. High Court as also the Apex Court is bound to protect the Judges of subordinate Courts from being subjected to scurrilous and indecent attacks, which scandalise or have the tendency to scandalise, or lower or have the tendency to lower the authority of any court as also all such actions which interfere or tend to interfere with the due course of any judicial proceedings or obstruct or tend to obstruct the administration of justice in any other manner. No affront to the majesty of law can be permitted. The fountain of justice cannot be allowed to be polluted by disgruntled litigants. The protection is necessary for the courts to enable them to discharge their judicial functions without fear. 57.	If there is a deliberate attempt to scandalize a judicial Officer of subordinate Court, it is bound to shake confidence of litigating public in the system and has to be tackled strictly. The damage is caused not only to the reputation of the concerned Judge, but, also to the fair name of judiciary. Veiled threats, abrasive behaviour, use of disrespectful language, and, at times, blatant condemnatory attacks, like the present one, are often designedly employed with a view to tame a Judge into submission to secure a desired order. The foundation of our system is based on the independence and impartiality of the men having responsibility to impart justice i.e. Judicial Officers. If their confidence, impartiality and reputation is shaken, it is bound to affect the very independence of judiciary. Any person, if allowed to make disparaging and derogatory remarks against a Judicial Officer, with impunity, is bound to result in breaking down the majesty of justice. 58. 	We cannot ignore the fact that much cherished judicial independence needs protection not only from over zealous executive or power hungry legislature but also from those who constitute, and, are integral part of the system. Here is a case where an Advocate has drafted an application since the litigants do not appear to understand the legal complexity much. The Advocate forgetting the higher status conferred upon him, making him an Officer of the Court, has chosen to malign Judicial Officer of the Subordinate Court. 59. 	An Advocate's duty is as important as that of a Judge. He has a large responsibility towards society. He is expected to act with utmost sincerity and respect. In all professional functions, an Advocate should be diligent and his conduct should also be diligent. He should conform to the requirements of law. He plays a vital role in preservation of society and justice system. He is under an obligation to uphold the rule of law. He must ensure that the public justice system is enabled to function at its full potential. He, who practices law, is not merely a lawyer, but acts as moral agent. This character, he cannot shake off, by any other character on any professional character. He derives from the belief that he shares sentiment of all mankind. This influence of his morality is one of his possession, which, like all his possession, he is bound to use for moral ends. Members of the Bar, like Judges, are the officers of the Court. Advocacy is a respectable noble profession on the principles. An Advocate owes duty not only to his client, but to the Court, to the society and, not the least, to his profession. 60. 	We do not intend to lay down any code of conduct for the class of the peoples known as "Advocates", but certainly we have no hesitation in observing that no Advocate has any business to condemn a Judge merely on the basis of his caste, creed or religion or for any other similar trait or attribute. If there is something lacking on the part of a Judicial Officer touching his integrity, Advocates, being Officers of the Court, may not remain a silent spectator, but should come forward, raising their voice in appropriate manner before the proper authority, but there cannot be a licence to any member of Bar to raise his finger over the competency and integrity etc. of a Judicial Officer, casually or negligently, or on other irrelevant grounds. Here the competence and capacity of the concerned Judicial Officer has been attempted to be maligned commenting upon his integrity and honesty. It deserves to be condemned in the strongest words. No one can justify it in any manner. Thinking of intrusion of such thought itself sounds alert. It is a siren of something which is not only very serious, but imminent. It is a concept or an idea which should not have cropped up in anybody's mind, connected with the system of justice, and if has cropped up, deserves to be nipped at earliest, else, it may spreads its tentacles to cover others and that would be a dooms day for the very institution. 61. 	This Court also made similar observations in Smt. Munni Devi and others Vs. State of U.P. and others , 2013(2) AWC 1546 and in para 10, said: 62.	Criticism of an order of a Court cannot be equated with making scurrilous attack on the conduct and integrity of the Judicial Officer/Presiding Officer of the Court. In the present case, an open allegation of bribe has been levelled against concerned Judicial Officer. 63.	Wild imaginary allegations against conduct of Judicial Officer without having any material to substantiate the same cannot be tolerated, inasmuch as, it not only brings into disrepute the entire justice system but is likely to cause serious erosion in the confidence of public in case such tendency is not snuffed at the earliest. The Judicial Officer/Judges had no platform to stand and clarify the circumstances in which the order has been passed by them. They had no platform to defend themselves. The strength of judiciary comes from the strong public opinion which it has in the system. If unsubstantiated flimsy imaginary fanciful allegations made by a party, who did not find its order in its favour, it will demolish the very foundation of the system of justice. Every order passed by the Court will be in favour of one of the party and against another. The loosing party cannot be allowed to challenge the very integrity of Judicial Officer in passing an order and that too without any material to support such a allegation. If we allow such a trend to remain unnoticed, or condone the same without any appropriate action, it will not only encourage such tendency amongst other and but also resultant situation may result in a serious blow to the system of administration of justice, which is one of the founding pillar of constitutional scheme and has to be protected by all legal and reasonable means. 64.	We may put on record that we called upon the contemnor to place on record any material and evidence to substantiate his allegations of bribe etc. levelled against the Judicial Officer concerned and we told him that in case the same can be proved, this Court would take all steps permissible in law to weed out such a Judicial Officer from the cadre of Judicial Officer of subordinate Courts but he failed and did not make any attempt to do so. Therefore, attempt of the contemnor to shield himself with reference to Sections 3 to 7 of Act, 1971 is misconceived. Those provisions have no applicability in this case. 65.	The facts discussed above, clearly show that having lost in earlier litigation, the judgment debtor was seriously indulged in attempting to delay and defer execution of judgment. In this process, even different counsels were engaged by the judgment debtor. The attempt to seek adjournment on 16.4.2011 failed when Presiding Officer passed order for execution of decree. It is admitted case that there was no obstruction or stay order by any superior court preventing execution court to proceed for execution. The grievance of judgment debtor was that his request for adjournment was ignored. In such zeal and having failed to get the things deferred, as planned or thought of by the judgment debtor, the contemnor helped him as a tool in hand by making scurrilous accusations and allegations against Judicial Officer, going to the extent of not only scandalizing the Presiding Officer of the Court and the Court itself but also to lower down the dignity of the Court. The persistence on the part of contemnor, is evident from repeated letters sent by him. It clearly shows adamant and persistent attitude on his part to challenge Judicial Officer in daring to pass an order rejecting request for adjournment. He virtually attempted to challenge the Judicial Officer as to how he could dare to pass order of execution when an adjournment was prayed by him. 66.	The suggestion that advocates were on strike does not provide any justification for making such allegations, inasmuch as, repeatedly, Apex Court as well as this Court have held that a call of strike by advocates except of a rare occasion, is per se illegal. A call, which has the effect of paralysing judicial function ex facie, in our view, amounts to a direct interference in the administration of justice and is a 'criminal contempt' under Section 2(c) of the Act, 1971. 67.	Thus, we have no hesitation in holding that the act of contemnor in making serious scurrilous allegations against conduct and integrity of Presiding Officer of Court below and its reputation, by submitting various letters/applications clearly show a well concerted plan and predetermined attempt on his part to scandalize the Court, lowering down its dignity. The contemnor therefore, is guilty of committing gross criminal contempt. The charge held proved against the contemnor. 68. 	The question no.(ii) is answered accordingly. 69.	Now, we come to the question about punishment. Certain family circumstances have been explained to request for dropping the proceedings. During the course of argument, we are informed that daughter of contemnor is to marry in the last week of May, 2015. There is an old mother at the residence and nobody is there to look after her. 70.	The facts, no doubt, at the first flush, attract a bit sympathy and considerate approach against imposing a severe punishment upon the contemnor but we cannot be oblivious of the fact that here is a person who has repeatedly tried to disrepute a Judicial Officer, who was virtually at the start of his career working as Civil Judge (Junior Division), the first step in the subordinate judiciary. If such a person (contemnor) is not dealt with strictly, wrong massage will go not only by demoralising the young and new Judicial Officers, working in the initial cadre of judiciary but may also give a wrong massage to the Bar/litigants, that to whatever extent they may criticise, abuse or make serious aspersion against Judicial Officer(s), still they may escape severe punishment in the hands of the Court. We have to handle the situation carefully, balancing both the aspects, but, simultaneously with iron hands so as to give a tough massage to all and to avoid recurrence of such incidents. 71.	We are also taking judicial cognizance of the fact that in State of Uttar Pradesh, disturbance at the level of advocates in various ways have become a regular feature. Most of Districts Judgeships suffer in discharge of judicial duties on account of frequent abstention by advocates from judicial work. On one hand, burden of litigation is increasing with increase of population, increase of legislations, executive failure/inaction etc. and consequential increase of multifarious complications and problem but simultaneously on the other hand, due to attitude of advocates, a large number of working days are being lost. The effective judicial work for a large number of days suffer due to abstention of advocates for one or the other reasons. In the entire Western U.P., for the last almost three decades and more, advocates are paralysing judicial work on every Saturday. Meaning thereby, in those almost two dozens districts, every year, almost 50 days and more, judicial work suffers due to abstention of advocates from courts. 72.	Besides, there are several other reasons. When this is not sufficient, they find other tactics adopted to create an undue pressure upon Presiding Officer for having judicial orders in a particular manner and when failed, reckless allegations are made. The officers of subordinate judiciary are already working in extremely tough conditions. Unlike other counter parts working in some other States having very good conditions, in State of U.P., situation is totally different. The Court rooms and chambers, in most of the cases, are in shambles. Though, this Court, on administrative side is not lacking or turning a stone for betterment of subordinate judiciary, but, apathy of executive is a big hurdle. Still, Judicial Officers of subordinate Courts have never complained for poor infrastructure and working conditions. They are devotedly performing their functions without any word of protest. However, when there is an attempt to mark their reputation in the hands of scrupulous persons, it is constitutional responsibility of the Court to come forward and protect them. 73.	We have reminded ourselves of all the observations made time and again that Judge should live and work like a saint/sage and always show benevolence and magnanimity. We are of the view that it should not go to the extent of representing to others lack of strength, confidence and capacity to uphold majesty of justice. A time has come where degree of public confidence and faith in the system has started eroding and lest it not be too late. We have to handle the situation so as to put the things right on all corners. 74.	Having given our anxious consideration, we find that contemnor deserves a bit severe punishment. We sentence him for simple imprisonment for one month and also impose fine of Rs.1,000/-. In case of non-payment of fine, he shall undergo 15 days' further simple imprisonment. 75.	We also direct that contemnor shall not be entitled to enter the premises of Budaun Judgeship for a period of three months, which will commence from 19th May, 2015. The conduct and attitude of contemnor while working as member of the Bar in Budaun Judgeship, after expiry of period of punishment as also restrain order of entering Court premises, shall remain under the constant watch of District Judge, Budaun for a period of two years and if he finds any untoward activity on the part of contemnor, he shall report to this Court forthwith. 76.	The execution of sentence of one month simple imprisonment however, shall remain suspended for a period of two months, during which period the contemnor is entitled to avail statutory remedy of appeal. In case no appeal is filed, and, if filed, and no otherwise order is passed, the contemnor shall surrender himself before Chief Judicial Magistrate, Budaun, who shall take steps for serving the sentence by contemnor. 77.	With the aforesaid punishment order and direction, the contempt application is disposed of. Order Date :- 12.5.2015
 
KA