The Center for AI and Digital Policy (CAIDP), a global network of artificial intelligence policy experts and advocates, has written to the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) urging the body to investigate OpenAI for violating consumer rights, The Verge reported . The CAIDP has stated that OpenAI’s GPT-4 is “biased, deceptive, and a risk to privacy and public safety”.

The CIADP, in its letter , has also asked the FTC to stop further commercial releases of GPT-4 and has called for an “independent oversight and evaluation” of commercial AI products launched in the US. The complaint comes in after a group of AI researchers wrote an open letter urging all AI labs around the world to halt training of powerful AI systems for at least six months. The signatories, including Elon Musk, claim that these systems “can pose profound risks to society and humanity”.

But, AI experts have also called out the letter for further encouraging the AI hype:

This open letter — ironically but unsurprisingly — further fuels AI hype and makes it harder to tackle real, already occurring AI harms. I suspect that it will benefit the companies that it is supposed to regulate, and not society. Let’s break it down. 🧵 https://t.co/akQozgMCya

— Arvind Narayanan (@random_walker) March 29, 2023

What is GPT-4?

GPT-4 is OpenAI’s latest AI language model which, the company claims, is more reliable, creative and can produce nuanced results and is available only for ChatGPT Plus users. It accepts image prompts in addition to text and users can also shape the tone, style, speech, and tasks of the AI by describing those directions in the “system” message.

Why it matters:

While there are AI enthusiasts and businesses who are racing to incorporate the AI software in their daily operations, there also those domain experts who are cautioning about user harms that follow all the hype around new technologies in the absence of accountability. Some researchers have criticized both the sides for encouraging the hype. Whether unnecessary hype or false alarm, both leave little room for a constructive discourse on making the AI systems better.

What does the CAIDP letter say?

The CAIDP complaint states that OpenAI’s business practices are “unfair and deceptive” and are in in violation of FTC norms, guidelines for responsible AI and “emerging legal norms” for AI governance.

It lists out the following problems with OpenAI’s products:

The FTC had cautioned businesses in the last two months about facing consequences if they do not weigh in risks of their AI products before launching them for commercial use. The consumer protection body, along with the antitrust division of Department of Justice, will also scrutinize AI-powered tools for anti-competitive behavior.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event