J U D G M E N T

(arising out of S.L.P. (C) No. 6818 of 2004)

SRIKRISHNA, J. Leave granted. This appeal impugns the judgment of the Division Bench of the High 
Court of Judicature at Bombay in a Letters Patent appeal holding that the 
amended provision of Order VIII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 
(hereinafter referred to as the ' CPC ') would not apply to the suits on the 
Original Side of the High Court and that such suits would continue to be 
governed by the High Court Original Side Rules. Facts: 2.3.2003, the appellant applied for issue of duplicate summons. On 
13.3.2003 the respondent filed a comprehensive affidavit in reply to the 
Notice of Motion. On 9.4.2003, duplicate summons were served upon the 
respondent. On 2.5.2003 the respondent applied for extension of time 
purportedly under Order VIII, Rule 1 of CPC , by a letter addressed to the 
Prothonotary and Senior Master, High Court of Bombay. The matter came 
before the learned Single Judge, who after hearing both the sides was of the 
view that "granting of 90 days time from 9.4.2003, the date on which the 
duplicate writ of summons had been admittedly served upon the respondent, 
would provide ample opportunity to the respondent to file written statement 
on or before 8.7.2003". Although, a prayer was made that the court may 
exercise its powers under Section 148 of the CPC and grant further 
extension of 30 days beyond 8.7.2003, that request was declined on the 
ground that the "request was premature and would be considered only on 
8.7.2003, provided the defendant-respondent was able to show sufficient 
cause for such an indulgence." Further time to file written statement was 
granted on payment of costs quantified at Rs.10,000 to be paid to the 
plaintiff-appellant. According to the respondent, the written statement was 
ready by 6.7.2003, but had not yet been affirmed. The respondent moved 
the court for further extension of time. This request was also opposed by the 
appellant. By an order made on 7.7.2003, the High Court extended time up 
to 28.7.2003. The appellant filed Appeal No. 608 of 2003 before the Division Bench 
of the High Court challenging the order extending time to file the written 
statement. On 28.7.2003, the written statement was actually filed by the 
respondent. The appeal was dismissed by the Division Bench on 
17.10.2003, taking the view that the suits on the Original Side would be 
governed by the Original Side Rules and not by the amended provisions of Order VIII Rule 1 of the CPC . Contentions: Since the written statement had not been filed within the time prescribed 
therein, by reason of the amended provisions of Order VIII Rule 1, the 
plaintiff-appellant had a vested right to have his suit decided ex parte.
The learned counsel for the Respondent supported the impugned 
judgment and reiterated the arguments which have appealed to the High 
Court. The Statutory Scheme: Apart from this section, Part IX of the CPC contains the fasciculus of Sections 116 to Section 120 delineating the manner of application of the 
CPC to the High Courts. Section 116 declares that Part IX applies only to 
High Courts not being the Court of a Judicial Commissioner. Section 117 provides that save as provided in Parts IX or X or in the rules, the provisions 
of the Code would apply to such High Courts. Section 120 provides that Sections 16 , 17 , and 20 , which deal with the pecuniary and territorial 
jurisdictions, shall not apply to the High Court in the exercise of its original 
civil jurisdiction. Then comes Part X, which deals with the rule making power. By Section 121 the rules prescribed in the First Schedule, being rules prescribed 
by the Legislature itself, have been declared to have the same effect as if 
enacted in the body of the Code until annulled or altered in accordance with 
the provisions of Part X. Section 122 confers power on a High Court, other 
than the Court of a Judicial Commissioner, to annul, alter or add to all or 
any of the rules in the First Schedule. This power is conferred with regard to 
rules regulating their own procedure and the procedure of the Civil Courts 
subject to their superintendence, but is subject to the condition of previous 
publication. Section 123 contemplates the constitution of Rule Committees 
in each of the High Courts as prescribed therein. Such a Committee makes 
its report to the High Court under Section 124 formulating and forwarding 
proposals with regard to annulment, alteration or addition in the First 
Schedule or for making new rules. Section 126 requires that the rules made 
by the High Court shall be subject to the previous approval of the State 
Government concerned. Section 127 requires previous publication of the 
rules so made in the Official Gazette. Section 128 enumerates a number of 
matters with regard to which rules may be framed by the High Courts. Then 
comes to Section 129 , which is crucial for the present discussion. Section 129 reads as under: Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned counsel for the appellant, strenuously 
urged that the power of the High Court to frame rules governing the 
procedure on its Original Side is a delegated legislative power, and can in no 
event override or be independent of the parent legislation, namely, the CPC . 
According to him, Parliament has, by prescription of rules in the First 
Schedule to the CPC , declared that the said rules would have the same status 
as if enacted in the body of the Code itself. No doubt, power has been given 
to the High Courts to amend these rules, subject to the condition of the 
report of the Rule Committee, previous approval of the State Government 
and publication of the rules. He contends that Section 129 of the CPC does 
not invest any independent power in the High Courts to make rules, but 
must be read harmoniously with the High Courts power under Section 122 of the CPC, if not as subordinate and subject thereto. Section 129 begins with a non obstante clause and seems to suggest 
something to the contrary. At least as far as Chartered High Courts are 
concerned, Section 129 seems to invest them with the power to make rules 
with regard to the regulation of their own procedure, which may be 
inconsistent with the CPC itself, as long as such rules are consistent with the 
Letters Patent establishing the High Courts. The section also ends with the 
words: "nothing herein contained shall affect the validity of any such rules 
in force at the commencement of this Code" ( emphasis ours). The CPC has been amended from time to time in order to meet with 
the changing situations. The historical developments as to the application of 
the CPC to the proceedings in the Chartered High Courts are illuminating. 
In order to appreciate the merit of the contention so strongly urged by the 
learned counsel for the appellant, it would be necessary to take a 
chronological perspective of the law. Chronological Perspective: It is therefore seen that clause 37 of the Letters Patent was intended 
to extend to the High Courts the Code of Civil Procedure enacted by the 
Legislature of India for the Courts other than the Courts established by the 
Royal Charter. The intention was to substitute one simple Code of 
Procedure for the various systems which had been in operation in the 
Supreme Court since the date of its establishment. Clause 37 of the Letters Patent of 1865, which deals with "civil 
procedure and regulation of proceedings", reads as follows: (Letters Patent of the three High Courts, namely, Calcutta, Bombay and 
Madras are identically worded ). The Code of Civil Procedure , 1877 (Act No. X of 1877), which 
received the assent of the governor General on 30.3.1877, and was thereafter 
brought into force with effect from 1.10.1877, was "an Act to consolidate 
and amend the laws relating to the procedure of the Court of Civil 
Judicature". Part IX of this Act contained special rules relating to the 
Chartered High Courts. Chapter XLVIII of the Act applied only to the 
Chartered High Courts. Section 632 of the Civil Procedure Code of 1877, in 
express words, provided: "except as provided in this Chapter the provisions 
of this Code apply to such High Courts." Section 638 was the exception to 
the general rule and provided as under: The Legislature recognized the special role assigned to the Chartered 
High Courts and exempted them from the application of several provisions 
of the Code in the exercise of their ordinary or extra-ordinary civil 
jurisdiction for the simple reason that those jurisdictions were governed by 
the procedure prescribed by the rules made in exercise of the powers of the 
Chartered High Courts under clause 37 of the Letters Patent. Interestingly, 
Section 652 of this Act itself empowered the High Courts to make rules 
"consistent with this Code to regulate any matter connected with the 
procedure of the Courts of Civil Judicature subject to its superintendence", 
suggesting that consistency with the Code was a sine qua non only when 
making rules for the subordinate courts. The Code of Civil Procedure , 1882 (Act No. XIV of 1882) received 
the assent of the Governor General on 17.3.1882. It also contained Part IX 
dealing with special rules relating to the Chartered High Courts. Section 638 
of this Code also exempted the Chartered High Courts in the exercise of their 
ordinary or extraordinary original civil jurisdiction from the application of 
the Code. Section 652 invested with the High Courts with power to make 
rules "consistent with this Code to regulate any matter connected with its 
own procedure or the procedure of the Courts of Civil Judicature subject to 
its superintendence." (emphasis ours). By an amendment made by Act No. XIII of 1895, Sections 632 and 652 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, were amended. Section 632, as 
amended by this Act, reads as under: The amendment made in Section 652 provides an apercu to the controversy. 
Section 652 was amended by adding the following: The reason for making this amendment is clarified in the Statement of 
Objects and Reasons accompanying the relevant Bill No. 13 of 1895 in the 
following words: Then we come to the 1908 Act, which made a drastic departure from 
the hitherto pattern of the Code. The Code was now divided into a fascicle 
of substantive sections and a Schedule containing Rules, which by force of Section 121 were declared to have effect as if enacted in the body of the 
Code until annulled or altered in accordance with the provisions of Part X of 
the CPC . Despite the sweeping change made by the 1908 Act, interestingly, the 
amendment introduced in the Code of Civil Procedure , 1882 by Act No. XIII 
of 1895, which we have quoted above, was retained in a slightly modified 
form in Section 129 . The Arguments: Far from advancing the case of the appellant, the speech of the Law 
Member, while introducing the Bill, suggests that it was thought necessary 
that the inherent powers of the Court to make appropriate orders, as may be 
necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the 
Court, was retained for the purpose of greater elasticity. It is next contended for the appellant that merely because Section 129 of the CPC begins with the non obstante clause , "notwithstanding anything 
in this Code", the section cannot be construed as a departure from the entire 
body of the CPC so as to render the rules made by the High Courts to 
regulate its own procedure in the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction into 
a 'stand alone body of rules'. Our attention was drawn by the learned 
counsel to pages 318-320 of Justice G.P. Singh's Principles of Statutory 
Interpretation (Ninth Edition), and it was contended that "the non obstante 
clause has to be read as clarifying the whole position and must be 
understood to have been incorporated in the enactment by the Legislature by 
way of abundant caution and not by way of limiting the ambit and scope of 
the operative part of the enactment." Reliance was placed on the 
observations of this Court in Aswini Kumar Ghosh v. Arabinda Bose where it was said: "the enacting part of the statute must, where it is clear, be 
taken to control the non obstante clause where both cannot be read 
harmoniously." The observations of this Court in Sri Venkataramana Devaru and 
Ors. v. State of Mysore and Ors. , R.S. Raghunath v. State of 
Karnataka and Anr. , Krishan Kumar v. State of Rajasthan and Ors. , Sultana Begum v. Prem Chand Jain and Maharashtra State Board 
of Secondary and Higher Education and Anr. v. Paritosh Bhupesh 
Kurmarsheth , were also relied upon to contend that when there is an 
apparent conflict between different provisions of a statute, the Court must 
give effect to all of them by adopting the principle of harmonious 
construction. There cannot be any doubt about the principle of harmonious 
construction. However, what confronts us is not a mere question of two 
independent provisions of the CPC being in conflict. The provisions of the 
CPC , which we have extracted, and the historical development of the 
different sections to which we have referred, do not suggest a situation of 
mere conflict. They seem to suggest that, throughout, the Legislature had 
made a distinction between the proceedings in other civil courts and the 
proceedings on the Original Side of the Chartered High Courts. This 
distinction was made for good historical reasons and it had continued 
unabated, as we have noticed, through the consolidating Acts, and continued 
unaffected even through the last amendment of the CPC in the year 2002. In 
the face of this body of evidence, it is difficult to accede to the contention of 
the appellant that the force of the non obstante clause is merely declaratory 
and not intended to operate as a declared exception to the general body of 
the CPC . After noticing the observations made in Aswini Kumar Ghose (supra) and Dominion of India v. Shrinbai A. Irani , this Court in Chandavarkar Sita Ratna Rao v. Ashalata S. Guram observed thus, in 
the context of construction of a non obstante clause: Again in Parayankandiyal Eravath Kanapravan Kalliani Amma 
(Smt.) and Ors. v. K. Devi and Ors. this Court observed: G.P. Singh's Principles of Statutory Interpretation.)" The historical development of the law suggests that the non obstante clause 
in Section 129 is intended to bypass the entire body of the Code so far as the 
rules made by the Chartered High Court for regulating the procedure on its 
Original Side are concerned. The observations of this Court in R.S. Raghunath (supra) in 
paragraphs 11 and 12 were pressed into service. These paragraphs merely 
reiterate and follow the observations made in Aswini Kumar Ghosh (supra), The Dominion of India (supra), Union of India v. G.M. Kokil as well as the observations made in Chandavarkar Sita Ratna Rao (supra). Finally, it is observed in Paragraph 12, in the words of Chinnapa 
Reddy, J.: Application of this principle clearly supports the view taken by the 
High Court. Taking into account the extrinsic evidence, i.e. the historical 
circumstances in which the precursor of Section 129 was introduced into the 
1882 Code by a specific amendment made in 1895, we are of the view that 
the non obstante clause used in Section 129 is not merely declaratory, but 
indicative of Parliament's intention to prevent the application of the CPC in 
respect of civil proceedings on the Original Side of the High Courts.
The High Court noticed that the interpretation put on Section 129 had 
been uniformly followed in the several judgments of High Courts, including 
the judgments of two Full Benches of Delhi and Calcutta High Courts. (See 
in this connection: AIR 1979 Delhi 217 (FB), (1913) ILR 37 Bom. 572, AIR 
1925 Mad. 1132, AIR 1930 Cal. 685, AIR 1930 Cal. 324, AIR 1961 Cal. 
483 (FB) and AIR 1961 All 595)

In Mishri Lal v. Dhirendra Nath and Ors. , this Court referred to 
its earlier decision in Muktul v. Manbhari on the scope of the doctrine 
of stare decisis with reference to Halsbury's Laws of England and Corpus 
Juris Secundum and held that "a decision which has been followed for a long 
period of time, and has been acted upon by persons in the formation of 
contracts or in the disposition of their property, or in the general conduct of 
affairs, or in legal procedure or in other ways, will generally be followed by 
courts of higher authority other than the court establishing the rule, even 
though the court before whom the matter arises afterwards might be of a 
different view." In our judgment, the principle of stare decisis squarely applies to the 
case on hand. In the first place, we are not satisfied that all the aforesaid 
judgments of the High Courts have been wrongly decided. Secondly, even 
assuming that it is possible to take a different view, as long as the principle 
has been consistently followed by the majority of the High Courts in this 
country, as observed in Mishri Lal (supra), even if the High Courts 
consistently have taken an erroneous view, (though we do not see that the 
view is erroneous), it would be worthwhile to let the matter rest, since a large 
number of parties have modulated and continue to modulate their legal 
relationships based on the settled law. On this principle also the view taken 
by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay commends 
itself to us. Learned counsel for the appellant next contends that even clause 37 of 
the Letters Patent establishing the High Court of Bombay, which empowers 
the High Court to make rules and orders on its Original Side, is subject to 
the proviso "that the said High Court shall be guided in making such rules 
and orders as far as possible, by the provisions of the Code of Civil 
Procedure .." He contends that the words "as far as possible" are words of 
limitation and must be interpreted to mean that the rules made should be 
consistent with the provisions of the CPC as amended from time to time. The Full Bench of the High Court of Calcutta in Manickchand v. 
Pratabmull had occasion to consider this very contention with regard to 
clause 37 of the Letters Patent and observed: This we think is the correct view to be taken in interpreting the words "as far 
as possible" in clause 37 of the Letters Patent. This interpretation would be 
consistent with the amplitude of the words used in Section 129 of the CPC 
by which the High Court is empowered to make rules "not inconsistent with 
the Letters Patent to regulate its own procedure in the exercise of its original 
jurisdiction as it shall think fit." Mr. Ram Jethmalani then put forth what he submits is the legal effect 
of Section 16 of the Amending Act, 2002. In his submission, the legal effect 
of this provosion is to sweep away anything that is inconsistent therewith. 
He placed strong reliance on the judgments of this Court in Ganpat Giri v. 
Second Additional District Judge , Ballia and Kulwant Kaur v. 
Gurdial Singh Mann to canvass his argument. In Ganpat Giri (supra) the question considered was with regard to 
the overriding provision contained in Section 97(1) of the Code of Civil 
Procedure (Amendment) Act of 1976 (Act 104 of 1976). The said provision 
reads thus: It is obvious that what was done by Section 97(1) of the Amending Act was 
to sweep away amendments made or provisions inserted in the principal Act 
by the State Legislature, or the High Court in exercise of its delegated 
powers of legislation, and to declare that all such amendments inconsistent 
with the provisions of the Code would stand repealed. We are afraid that 
Section 129 is neither an amendment made by the State legislature, nor by 
the High Court, and as such, it does not get overridden by Section 97(1) of 
the Amending Act of 1976. Though, both the sections Sections 122 and 129 
were noticed in this judgment, it does not hold that the impact of Section 
129 was, in any way, watered down by Section 122. The following 
observations in para 5 of the judgment were relied upon: In our view, Section 97 of the Amending Act does not, in any way, affect 
the special hierarchial status given to the proceedings before the Chartered 
High Courts on its Original Side. It was merely intended to standardize and 
make uniform the law as to civil procedure in other Civil Courts. Kulwant Kaur (supra) was concerned with a situation where Punjab 
Courts Act, 1918 had a special right of appeal and the question was 
whether the amended provisions in Section 100 of the CPC, as amended by 
Act 104 of 1976, would exclude appeals under Section 41of the Punjab 
Courts Act, 1918. The view taken was that there was inconsistency between 
the provisions of the Punjab Courts Act and the provisions of Section 97(1) of the CPC. By reason of Article 254 , the Section 97(1) of the CPC, being 
the Central Act, was held to prevail. It was pointed out in the judgment that 
though Section 4 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 saved special or local 
laws in the absence of any specific provision to the contrary, Section 97(1) 
was such a provision to the contrary, and, therefore, the saving under Section 4 would no longer be available to the local Act. Consequently, it 
was held "language of Section 97(1) of the Amendment Act clearly spells 
out that any local law which can be termed to be inconsistent perishes, but if 
it is not so, the local law would continue to occupy its field." We do not 
think that this decision carries forward the argument. Finally, it was argued by Mr. Jethmalani that the Letters Patent, and 
the rules made thereunder by the High Court for regulating its procedure on 
the Original Side, were subordinate legislation and, therefore, must give way 
to the superior legislation, namely, the substantive provisions of the Code of 
Civil Procedure . There are two difficulties in accepting this argument. In 
the first place, Section 2(18) of the CPC defines "rules" to mean "rules and 
forms contained in the First Schedule or made under section 122 or section 
125". The conspicuous absence of reference to the rules regulating the 
procedure to be followed on the Original Side of a Chartered High Court 
makes it clear that those rules are not "rules" as defined in the Code of Civil 
Procedure , 1908. Secondly, it is not possible to accept the contention that 
the Letters Patent and rules made thereunder, which are recognized and 
specifically protected by section 129, are relegated to a subordinate status, 
as contended by the learned counsel. We might usefully refer to the 
observations of the Constitutional Bench of this Court in P.S. Santhappan 
(Dead) by LRs. v. Andhra Bank Ltd. & Ors. . With reference to Letters 
Patent, this is what the Constitution Bench said: Far from doing away with the Letters Patent, the amending Act of 
2002 has left unscathed the provisions of section 129 and what follows 
therefrom. The contention must, therefore, fail. In the result, we are of the view that no fault can be found with the 
impugned judgment of the High Court under appeal. There is no merit in the 
appeal and it is hereby dismissed. However, there shall be no order as to 
costs.