“There is a need for a dedicated effort to collect structured empirical data on cyber payment frauds to assess the magnitude of the problem countrywide,” notes a joint report by think tanks Deepstrat and The Dialogue, titled, “ Tracking Retail Financial Cyber Crimes in India “, published earlier in June, 2022.

This report comes on the back of an exponential increase in the number of financial cyber-crime across India as more and more transactions moved online during the pandemic, with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) recording 69,410 cases in 2020. It cites social engineering and phishing as the two most commonly observed attack patterns deployed by criminals to commit ATM, online banking, UPI and OTP frauds.

While acknowledging that the lack of concrete data prevents a detailed study of financial cyber-frauds, the researchers at suggest that regulators such as the Reserve Bank of India need to evolve their safety features and security processes of all stakeholders in the digital payments ecosystem for greater harmonization and user safety, noting that this will also law enforcement agencies to investigate crimes.

Why this matters? The frequency of cyberattacks on both public and private sectors has risen exponentially in the last few years, especially during the pandemic . Cyber breaches across the country in the past two years have resulted in victim entities and individuals incurring huge financial losses, not to mention the severe violations of confidential data and privacy. To gauge the attack patterns and methods of threat actors is the key to improve existing cybersecurity measures.

Never miss out on important developments in tech policy, whether in India or across the world. Sign up for our morning newsletter , with a “Free Read of the Day”, to experience MediaNama in a whole new way.

Payment frauds are essentially extraction of money from a payment instrument by either hacking or through social engineering or phishing attacks that compromise their security measures. In both these approaches, the attackers send a corrupted message which manages to get the user to share their banking password. This, in turn, allows the attacker to siphon money from the victim’s account to some other payment instrument in their control.

Three common techniques to manage the locks to take money out of payment instruments are:

Below, are listed the methods that the paper has stated as being usually employed by cyber-criminals to extract money from victim accounts. This information was collected by the researchers from police analyses of the FIRs filed in Gurugram, one of the most cyber-crime infested cities in India , and from interviews with the officers in charge of investigating these cases.

Perhaps, the most difficult hurdle faced by the researchers is the discrepancy between multiple authorities on the number of financial cyber-crimes that have taken place in India. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) contends that there were 69,410 cases, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has recorded 30,142 cases for the same period. Yet another report, this one by The Ken , claims a much higher number of financial cyber-crime cases at over 80,000 using anecdotal data.

Other reports indicate that after the pandemic set in, Delhi witnessed a total number of 32,896 cyber-crime related cases filed between January 2020 to December 2020, marking an approximately eight times increase in cyber frauds from the previous year’s number across all states and union territories. “What is unclear from these two sources is the money defrauded by the scamsters from the victims and the evolution of the modus operandi and other contextual information such as why these crimes are exploding, the resolution rate and impediments faced by investigators in solving them,” the ‘Tracking Retail Financial Cyber Crimes in India’ report notes.

It also points out that the lack of this information is a blind spot for policy makers because all they see and hear is the ever-increasing adoption of digital financial transactions, but not the growth limiting problems that increase in fraud poses. “For instance, it is unclear which segment of the population is more vulnerable to payment frauds, and what remedial measures must be taken to mitigate the vulnerability because of lack of granular data, categorized across various modus operandi,” the report notes.

The lack of data on payment frauds, also leads policy makers to ignore investment on grievance redressal and instead focus on growing the volume of digital transactions, by reducing the cost of digital transactions, through approaches such as the Zero MDR (Merchant Discount Rate). However the report notes that it has been clear to other “successful market players” that bringing down fraud volumes, sets them up for long term success, by increasing trust among customers and businesses.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Corrigendum 13/07: MediaNama had missed out crediting Deepstrat, The Dialogue’s partner on this paper, in the previous version of the story. The story has been updated to reflect the joint effort.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event