SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Cowin App problems and ground reality of vaccination
DATE: 2021-03-02
SCORE: 22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/lvx3s0/cowin_app_problems_and_ground_reality_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, I'm a doctor and my family also has doctors. The first phase of vaccinating health workers went well surprisingly, it went smoothly and I got my second dose on Friday. I got my final certificate on the Cowin app and it's available on Arogya Setu too. 

But things have become worse since the 2nd phase began rolling out. My aunt, doctor, wanted to go on Saturday for her second dose (as per her 4 weeks period), but could not as the app was shut over the weekend for conversion to Cowin 2.0. 

Yesterday, my aunt went for her second dose. We take it at our nearby BMC hospital. It was absolute chaos. While senior citizens from everywhere had come to register, there were still doctors remaining to take their second dose. Cowin WAS NOT WORKING. The doctors on duty at the center were harried, trying to make the app work but this was beyond them. My aunt came back. 

Now today my aunt went again to get her dose, and it's chaos again. And Cowin is not working again. More people, no social distancing, chaos. It's been 4 hours since she's gone, Cowin is working bit by bit and she's just now entered the building to go towards her station where she will be injected. 

This app is sadly not able to take the load of so many people logging in and registering. On this app, doctors on duty also login to input details of those doses they've administered. One app can't function on both fronts. Something has to be done. 

My grandmother is registered (luckily, on the Cowin website we could do that), but now how I can take her for vaccination? She's 81. There's so many people, no distancing, people keep removing masks, I think she'll contract the virus before actually getting the injection. 

I really hope we all get vaccinated, truly. But our method of doing it is full of error and our authorities must not hasten all this just to get global recognition and gloat in the fake thought that we've achieved national immunisation - we have a long, long way to go. 

Good luck everyone, and please help senior citizens in registering on Cowin.