SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help! I think my mom is getting scammed and I don't know how to stop it!
DATE: 2020-05-17
SCORE: 2463
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gldekp/help_i_think_my_mom_is_getting_scammed_and_i_dont/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, this story starts a few months back when my mom set up my Jeevansathi profile to find an eligible partner for me. The process we set up was that she would look for profiles and if she found any of them to decent/appropriate for me, she would forward them to me. This was decent system that was working fairly well.

However, it all went to hell when X entered the picture. My mom found his profile on Jeevansathi and thought he was a decent profile. They chatted for a while on Jeevansathi itself and she was quickly enamored by him. She sent me his profile and number and told me that she thinks this might be 'The One'. I with already being skeptical of this entire process, was cautiously hopeful of this guy. 

I was immediately disappointed looking at his dp. Now hold you horses, I am not talking about his looks here. The dp looked something straight out r/IndianFacebookMemes with its shoddy editing and weird background. However, determined to give him a chance, I decided to talk to him. Very quickly I realized that none of what he was talking about was making sense to me (He is an orphan, he believe his parents were murdered, he believes his mother side of family murdered his parents so he has been estranged from them and he was never close to his father's side of family, he was raise by his grandparents, i don't remember which side and they recently passed away, he has properties worth 104 crore and he was talking about buying a factory worth 200 crores). 

Not wanting to fall further into his words, I set about trying to find any kind of presence of him. He was a ghost on Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn anyways. He said he studied from an IIT and IITs generally have a good online presence. However, I could find him nowhere on the IIT website. He apparently did some certifications (btw, the very next day he deleted these messages and now I cannot recall what they were). But when I had looked up these certifications, they were apparently basic computer courses, which he wouldn't require as he was Computer Science graduate from IIT (or so he says). He said he works in DRDO, so I asked my contacts, both in junior and senior positions to look for him using both his name and his photo. No one was able to find him either with his name or his photo.

Because of all these suspicions, I called up Jeevansathi to ask if his background check had turned out ok. Well, few days later his profile was deleted.

I being confident with all these facts asked my mom to confront him as all these irregularities where highly suspicious and I wanted my mom to stop talking to him. However, he got back to us saying that yes, he had lied about his name, because he is working for a top secret project for DRDO and he is being sent to another country on a top secret mission and he was not allowed to have an online presence. He says that he was also called in by his manager in DRDO to be reprimanded because someone was trying to look him up. Also, when Jeevansathi called him up, he was very offended by their questions and immediately proceeded to delete his profile as opposed to what we heard from Jeevansathi who told us that they had deleted his profile. My mom however immediately believed him saying that he has decent explanations for all our queries so there is no need to be suspicious of him and I was just overreacting.

When I asked my senior contact in DRDO if this (being completely off social media) is a policy, he said no. Yes, you're not allowed to talk about projects but there is no such policy about online presence. And he said, him being in senior position, he had collated a list of all personnel working in that department and his (X's) name had not come up which it should've even if it was a top secret project. He said the only way any name would not come up in the list is if it's a contract employee. And he had not found anyone who recognized X's photo.

There were enough red flags for me stop believing anything guy said. But by this time my mom was far too enamored with him. They were now calling each other "mummy" and "beta".

I somehow convinced my mom that I would not be marrying said person. However, my mom continued to remain in contact with him. I could not convince my mom to stop talking to him but I did convince her to not give out any more personal information about us and to remain vigilant. Which she agreed to be. However, she categorically refused to stop contact as I was just overreacting because I didn't want to marry the guy. 

However, today I stumbled on few texts between them where my mom is talking about sending him large sums of money because, and I quote, "mein mere bete ko daard mein nahi dekh sakti".

Alarms raised in my head, I contacted a Private Detective Agency to get his information. However, they said they are unable to get name, location and other information from a phone number without a FIR. And I cannot file a FIR, as nothing has actually happened yet. They said they could follow him and gather information if we can set up a meeting. However, he is apparently in Delhi right now and anyways we cannot set up a meeting right now due to quarantine.

So finally, here I am, hoping that you guys would maybe have some ideas of what I can do to for once and all prove that this guy is a scammer.

I have two phone numbers that belong to him and an email id which I got from Truecaller.

Edit: The reason I did not mention anything about my father and relatives is because they are already aware of it. My mom had told them about this amazing guy to them and how I'm not willing to give him a chance because I'm so stubborn. My aunt told me that I should listen to my betters and my dad said if there is a chance that this guy is amazing, which he believes because my mom believes, why do I have to be so stubborn.

I need to be clear though that what they are not aware about how often my mom and X talk and all about this money stuff. For now I would like to keep it that way.

Edit2: I'd like to say a massive thank you to everyone here. I didn't want to respond to the comments as I feared it would derail the topic very fast. However, I did read each and everyone of the comments. Using advice from few redditors, I used a grabify link sent from my mom's phone to capture his location and phone specs (The email id turned out to be fake as checked against online email checker tools). I used that data to prove that he was lying about his location and his phone specs for some reason as well. Included my father in the conversation and had to prove to him that the grabify data location works for real. Enough seeds of doubt were sowed that I got a brief window to handle my mom's phone and proceeded to delete his entire existence from her phone. They are still not hundred percent certain on his duplicity so I fear if and when he contacts my family with a new number, but for now the immediate danger is over with.

For those of you who gave links for similar news articles, they have been godsend. I've been using that to show how easily the scammers can produce authentic looking documents and other similar scams.

I'm now looking into police action as few people have pointed out, even impersonating a DRDO employee is a crime. You guys might have made me hungry for some sort of revenge. Although I'm not sure about how to go about it. Any clue from you guys?

Also, everyone makes stupid mistakes. And usually, they are stupid in hindsight only. My parents are not as naive as the story made it seem to be. This weird set of circumstances have made them blind to all possible faults. And like all parents, it's all because they want to see me happy and find the best possible groom for me. I cannot possibly fault them for that. My mistakes have certainly not been for any such noble reasons.