An indictment filed by the United States against former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF) revealed that he has been charged with eight counts of wire fraud, money laundering, securities fraud, among other things, as per the document reviewed by Medianama.

The charges were brought because the U.S. Attorney’s office alleged that SBF misappropriated billions of dollars of customer funds deposited with FTX, and misled investors and lenders to FTX and Alameda Research, as per a press release shared by the U.S. Attorney’s office.

“As today’s charges make clear, this was not a case of mismanagement or poor oversight, but of intentional fraud, plain and simple,” read a statement from the U.S. Attorney Damian Williams.

Why it matters: The indictment is notable as it can set a precedent for bringing accountability in the unregulated crypto sector. The extent of damage that investors faced following FTX’s collapse runs into billions. The allegations in the indictment cast a grim shadow on SBF, who has consistently maintained that the collapse was a result of his mistakes and not wilful wrongdoing.

The indictment contains eight counts in total and SBF is staring at a prison term of more than 100 years if proven guilty on each of these counts, according to the press release. Here is a summary of the indictment:

Wire fraud on customers (Counts 1 & 2): The indictment alleged that SBF and others conspired together to commit wire fraud wilfully from 2019 till November 2022, in the U.S., and elsewhere. It added that SBF’s actions paint a conspiracy in which he “transmitted” writings, signs, signals, pictures, and sounds in order to execute his fraud by means of wire, radio, and television communication in interstate and foreign commerce.

Wire fraud on lenders (Counts 3 & 4): The indictment argued that SBF also hatched a conspiracy to defraud lenders to Alameda Research “by providing false and misleading information to those lenders regarding Alameda Research’s financial condition”.

Commodities fraud (Count 5): The US Attorney’s office argued that SBF along with others committed an “offense” in the form of commodities fraud. It said that SBF employed direct and indirect ways to facilitate a “contract of sale” (related to a swap) of a “commodity in interstate commerce”, with a “manipulative and deceptive device and contrivance”.

Securities fraud (Count 6): The US government alleged that SBF provided false information to investors regarding the financial condition of FTX.com. The indictment also alleged that SBF did so by causing “an email to be sent to an FTX investor in New York that contained materially false information about FTX’s financial condition”.

Money laundering (Count 7): The indictment contends that SBF along with others conducted a financial transaction (monetary transfers) knowing that the property involved in the financial transaction represented the “proceeds of some form of unlawful activity”. It added that the unlawful activity constitutes wire fraud alleged in the second count of the indictment.

Violations of Campaign Finance Laws (Count 8): The allegations also included violations of federal law concerning the “making, receiving, and reporting of a contribution, donation, or expenditure”. It asserted that SBF impaired and obstructed the “lawful functions of a department and agency of the United States through deceitful and dishonest means”. It added that it disrupted the Federal Election Commission’s “function to administer federal law concerning source and amount restrictions in federal elections, including the prohibitions applicable to corporate contributions and conduit”.

Forfeiture: The indictment said that SBF will have to “forfeit any and all property, real and personal, that constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the commission of said offenses”. Moreover, the U.S. government said that it will seek forfeiture of other properties owned by SBF up to the value of the properties obtained through the aforementioned proceeds.

Overview on Sam-Bankman’s arrest: SBF was arrested by the Royal Bahamas Police Force on December 12, 2022, as per a press release put out by the Office of the Attorney General of The Bahamas. The arrest was made after a request was sent by the United States to the Bahamian government stating that it had filed criminal charges against SBF and was likely to request his extradition, the release added.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event