IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL "K", BENCH
 MUMBAI

 BEFORE SHRI M.BALAGANESH, AM
 &
 SHRI RAVISH SOOD, JM ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 (Assessment Year :2002-03)
 & ITA No.4565/Mum/2009 (Assessment Year :2003-04)

ADIT (IT) 3(1) Vs. The Hongkong and
Scindia House, Shanghai Banking
R.No.132, 1st Floor Corporation Ltd
N.M.Road, 52/60, Mahatma Gandhi
Mumbai - 38 Road
 Mumbai - 400 001
 PAN/GIR No. AAACT2786P
(Appellant) .. (Respondent) ITA No.3401/Mum/2006 (Assessment Year :2002-03)
 & ITA No.3996/Mum/2009 (Assessment Year :2003-04)

The Hongkong and Vs. ADIT (IT) 3(1)
Shanghai Banking Scindia House,
Corporation Ltd R.No.132, 1st Floor
52/60, Mahatma Gandhi N.M.Road,
Road Mumbai - 38
Mumbai - 400 001
 PAN/GIR No. AAACT2786P
(Appellant) .. (Respondent)

Revenue by Shri Anand Mohan
Assessee by Shri Porus Kaka and Shri Divesh
 Chawla
Date of Hearing 08/11/2019

Date of Pronouncement 27/11/2019 2 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. आदे श / O R D E R

PER M. BALAGANESH (A.M): Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XXI, Mumbai in appeal No.CIT(A)
XXI/Int.Tax/IT-70/05-06 dated 31/03/2006 (ld. CIT(A) in short) against
the order of assessment passed u/s.143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
(hereinafter referred to as Act) dated 31/03/2005 by the ld. Asst. Director
of Income Tax (IT) 3(1), Mumbai (hereinafter referred to as ld. AO). 04)
 These cross appeals in ITA Nos. 4565/Mum/2009 and
3996/Mum/2009 for A.Y.2003-04 arises out of the order by the ld.
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XXXIII, Mumbai in appeal
No.CIT(A) XXXIII/Intl.Taxn/IT-198H/05-06 dated 27/02/2006 (ld. CIT(A)
in short) against the order of assessment passed u/s.143(3) of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as Act) dated 31/01/2006
by the ld. Asst. Director of Income Tax (IT) 3(1), Mumbai (hereinafter
referred to as ld. AO). 2. The first issue to be decided in the appeal of the assessee for
A.Y.2002-03 is as to whether the ld. CIT(A) was justified in upholding the
disallowance of Rs.14,09,77,991/- being salaries paid to expatriate
employees of the assessee. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 2.1. During the course of assessment proceedings, the assessee was
requested to give details with regard to salary paid to expatriate
employees and also justify the claim of deduction thereon. The assessee
has filed detailed response in this regard vide letter dated 17/12/2004
stating that the expatriate officers rendered services in India for which
they were paid salaries and said salary has been taken into account in
computing their salary income chargeable to tax in India after due
deduction of tax at source in terms of Section 192 of the Act. The
assessee submitted that the expenditure has been incurred for the
purpose of Indian Operations and for earning income in India and hence,
it is an expenditure which is allowable as deduction in computing the
income of the Indian branches. The assessee revised the claim of
deduction of Rs.14,09,77,991/- during the course of assessment
proceedings in respect of salaries to expatriate employees. All the
necessary evidences in support of its claim were duly furnished by the
assessee before the ld. AO. 2.2. It was also submitted before the ld. AO that such expenses are not
"head office expenses" within the meaning of Section 44C of the Act. The
ld. AO observed that the said expenditure was not debited by the
assessee to the profit and loss account and the expatriate employees
were not on the pay roll of the Indian branch. Accordingly, he held that
the salary paid to expatriate employees will also be clubbed with the head
office expenses and hence not allowable as deduction u/s.37 of the Act.
The ld. CIT(A) upheld the action of the ld. AO by observing as under:- 17. We have heard the parties on this issue and perused the materials
 placed before us including the case law relied upon by the parties. We find
 that the issue raised by the revenue in this appeal stands covered in favour
 of the assessee by the above said decisions. Therefore, following the
 principal of consistency, we dismiss Ground No.2 of revenue's appeal. 2.4.1. Respectfully following the same, ground No.1 raised by the
assessee is allowed. 3. The ground No.2 raised by the assessee for A.Y.2002-03 is with regard
to disallowance of expenses incurred for mobilization of deposits from
non-resident Indian to the tune of Rs.4,54,65,934/-. During the course of
assessment proceedings, the assessee explained before the ld. AO the
details of expenditure incurred on mobilization of NRI deposits. The
assessee submitted that these expenses were incurred by their head
office and since the deposits were retained in the books of Indian branch,
the related expenses incurred thereon are also debited to the Indian
branch. The assessee has specifically submitted that these expenses are
in the nature of salaries, travelling, advertisement and other incidental
expenses incurred by the team of officers of the bank in the Middle East,
UK, USA, Singapore and Hong Kong for mobilizing deposits from NRIs. It 7 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. was pleaded that this expenditure has been incurred wholly and
exclusively for the purpose of banks Indian operations. It was specifically
mentioned that this expenditure was incurred for specific purpose of
deposits mobilization and rendering related services to its customers and
are not in the nature of general administration expenses and also not in
the nature of common expenditure allocable to the branches. Hence, it
was specifically submitted that this expenditure will not fall within the
ambit of "head office expenses" within the meaning of Section 44C of the
Act. The ld. AO however, disregarded the contentions of the assessee and
observed that these expenses were not debited by the assessee in its
profit and loss account and accordingly treated the same as "head office
expenses" u/s.44C of the Act. Hence, he disallowed the sum of
Rs.4,54,65,934/- in the assessment. The ld. CIT(A) upheld the action of
the ld. AO by observing as under:- 3.2.1. We also find that on further appeal by the revenue before the
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in Income Tax Appeal No.1569/2016
dated 06/02/2019 against this Tribunal order, the Hon'ble High Court held
that the Tribunal had decided in identical manner in earlier years in
identical situation and that revenue had not preferred any appeal before
the High Court for those earlier years. The Hon'ble High Court also
observed that non-filing of appeals by the revenue before the Court for
the earlier years was not on the ground of low tax effect. Hence, it held
that the decision of the revenue not to challenge the Tribunal judgment in
earlier years in respect of some assessee had to be understood as 9 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. conscious decision of accepting the proposition of the Tribunal.
Accordingly, the Hon'ble High Court did not entertain the question raised
by the revenue. 3.3. Respectfully following the aforesaid decision of this Tribunal and
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court, the ground No.2 raised by the assessee
is allowed. Exchange Gain/Loss in valuation of outstanding Foreign
Exchange Forward Contracts: 4. The brief facts of this issue is that the ld. AO observed that the
assessee had deducted from the total income an amount of
Rs.14,46,27,000/- on account of exchange fluctuation gain on outstanding
foreign exchange forward contracts. The assessee made a detailed
submission in support of its contention vide reply letter dated 17/12/2004
and also placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Madras High Court
in the case of Indian Overseas Bank reported in 183 ITR 200. 4.1. The assessee also pleaded before the ld. AO that since the revenue
was consistently having a stand that loss arising out of unmatured foreign
exchange contracts as valued at the year end was not a permissible
deduction, the amount of loss which was disallowed in earlier year
amounting to Rs.15,16,14,000/- should be allowed as a deduction during
the year under consideration as the contracts have been settled during
the previous year relevant to A.Y.2002-03. The ld. AO did not agree to
the contentions of the assessee and observed that the loss arising on 10 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. account of unmatured foreign exchange contracts at the end of the year
are only notional in nature and hence, cannot be allowed as a deduction.
The ld. AO remained silent in his order with regard to the alternative
claim of the assessee for allowing deduction of Rs.15,16,14,000/- in
respect of very same loss which was disallowed in the earlier year had to
be granted as deduction during this year as the contracts had been
settled during the year under consideration. 4.2. The assessee submitted that the sum of Rs.14,46,27,000/- represent
foreign exchange gain arising out of valuation of outstanding forward
contracts as at the end of the year as on 31/03/2002 and that the same
were credited to profit and loss account and offered to tax. The assessee
pleaded that by going by the same analogy of the ld. AO, the said foreign
exchange gain of Rs.14.46 Crores also would become notional in nature
and cannot be brought to tax. The ld. CIT(A) appreciated the contentions
of the assessee and directed that this sum of Rs. 14,46,27,000/- should
be taxed only in the year in which the said forward contracts gets
matured i.e. in A.Y.2003-04. The ld. CIT(A) also directed the ld. AO to
grant deduction of Rs.15,16,14,000/- being the loss arising on account of
valuation of outstanding forward contracts as on 31/03/2001 as the same
is to be allowed even as per analogy of the ld. AO. 4.3. Aggrieved, both revenue and assessee are in appeal before us. 4.4. We have heard rival submissions. We find that this issue is already
covered by the decision of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for
A.Y.2001-02 in ITA No.4424 and 4670/Mum/2005 dated 20/11/2015
wherein it was held as under:- We find that the issue in hand and the facts of the cases relied upon are
 same, therefore, respectfully following the decision of the Hon'ble Apex
 Court in the case of Woodward Governor India Pvt. Ltd (supra), we set
 aside the order of ld.CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition.
 Ground No.5 taken by the assessee is allowed." 4.4.1. Respectfully following the same, we hold that the sum of
Rs.14,46,27,000/- should be taxed in A.Y.2002-03 and Rs.15,16,14,000/-
should not be allowed as deduction in A.Y.2002-03. This would ensure no
claim of double deduction by the assessee and also ensure that there is
no double taxation on the part of the revenue. Accordingly, ground No.3
raised by the assessee is allowed and ground No.1 raised by the revenue
is dismissed. Disallowance u/s.14A of the Act:- 5. During the year under consideration, the assessee disclosed the
interest income of tax free bonds amounting to Rs.18,19,16,621/- and
dividend income of Rs.2,99,43,000/-. The total tax free income of
Rs.21,18,59,621/- was disclosed and claimed as exempt in the return of
income. The assessee did not disallow any expenditure for earning the
aforesaid tax free income in accordance with the provisions of Section
14A of the Act and pleaded that no expenditure was related to earning of
the said tax free income. The assessee also submitted the details of 12 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. availability of own funds at its kitty to the tune of Rs.870 Crores and 1790
Crores to drive home the point that it was flooded with interest free funds
to make various investments in tax free securities and bonds. In other
words, the assessee pleaded that the interest free funds available with
the bank was over Rs.2650 Crores as against total investment in tax free
bonds made to the extent of Rs.284 Crores. The ld. AO observed that the
total investments made by the assessee were Rs.89,48,13,717/- in
securities and assumed the average cost of funds at 6.45% and applied
the said percentage on the investments of Rs.89.48 Crores and arrived at
the disallowance of expenditure u/s.14A of the Act in the sum of
Rs.5,77,15,485/- (Rs.89,48,13,717/- x 6.45%) and disallowed the same in
the assessment. The ld. CIT(A) upheld the action of the ld. AO. 5.1. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us. 5.2. We have heard rival submissions and perused the material available
on record. We find from page 99 of the paper book comprising of letter
dated 21/03/2005 filed by the assessee before the ld. AO wherein it has
been categorically stated by the assessee that the incremental
investments made in tax free bonds during the year by the assessee was
only Rs.49,48,13,717/-, which has been erroneously taken by the lower
authorities at Rs.89,48,13,717/-. From the perusal of the balance sheet of
the assessee, it is very clear that the assessee is having substantial
interest free funds which is much more than the investment made in the
securities and bonds of the assessee which had yielded exempt income.
Hence, by placing reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court in the case of Reliance Utilities and Power Ltd., reported in
313 ITR 340 and HDFC Bank Ltd. reported in 366 ITR 505, there cannot
be any disallowance on account of interest on borrowed funds u/s.14A of 13 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. the Act. However, certain administrative expenses certainly need to be
disallowed u/s.14A of the Act as the law has been amended with
retrospective amendment from 01/04/1962 onwards. In this regard, we
find that the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. R.R. Sen &
Brothers P Ltd in GA No.3019/2012 in ITA No.243/2012 dated 04/01/2013
had held as under:- 5.3. Respectfully following the aforesaid decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High
Court, we direct the ld. AO to disallow 1% of total exempt income u/s.14A of the Act. Accordingly, the ground No.4 raised by the assessee is partly
allowed. Payments made to Club:- 6. The ld. AO observed that assessee had made payment of
Rs.84,83,457/- to clubs. The assessee was asked to explain the
beneficiaries to this club facilities and justify the claim as deduction. The
assessee vide reply dated 17/12/2004 submitted that the executives of
the bank had used club facilities which directly help in bringing the
business to the bank and made prospective clients and therefore, the
expenditure incurred on clubs is wholly and exclusively for the purpose of
business. The assessee also filed break-up of expenses comprising of
membership fees, subscription, entrance fees and other payments made
to clubs. The ld. AO observed that assessee had not furnished the break-
up of these expenses and also brought no evidence to lead that the said 14 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. expenditure is incurred for the purpose of business. Accordingly, the ld.
AO resorted to disallow 50% of the total expenditure as not incurred for
the purpose of business in the sum of Rs.42,41,728/-. 6.1. The ld. CIT(A) observed that the break-up of expenses are as under:- 6.2. The ld. CIT(A) by placing reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of OTIS Elevators Company India Ltd.
reported in 195 ITR 682 held that membership, subscription and entrance
fees are business expenditure and accordingly directed the ld. AO to allow
the deduction for the same. With regard to other payments made to clubs
in the sum of Rs.16,96,047/-, the ld. CIT(A) reduced the estimated
disallowance to 20% thereon. 6.3. Aggrieved, both assessee as well as revenue are in appeal before us. 6.4. We find that this issue is already covered in favour of the assessee by
the Co-ordinate Bench of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for
A.Y.1998-99 in ITA No.5306 & 5472/Mum/2001 dated 22/01/2016
wherein the ground raised by the revenue was dismissed by placing
reliance on the order of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for A.Y.1992-
93 in ITA No.628/Mum/1999 dated 15/02/2007. We also find that the
issue on payments to clubs are covered by the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of United Glass Manufacturing Company Ltd.,
in Civil Appeal No.6447/2012 and also by the decision of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of OTIS Elevators Ltd. reported in 15 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 195 ITR 682. Respectfully following the same, the ground no.5 raised by
the assessee is allowed and ground no.3 raised by the revenue is
dismissed. 7. Ground No.6 raised by the assessee is with regard to disallowance of
provision for liability on account of bonus points accrued on credit cards
of Rs.3,91,61,437/-. 7.1. The brief facts of this issue are that the assessee made provision of
Rs.3,19,61,437/- towards liability on account of bonus points payable to
credit card customer by the bank. The details of said provision were
worked out as under:- bank and hence, provided for and claimed as deduction in the return of
income. The assessee has also placed reliance on the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bharat Earth Movers Ltd. vs. CIT reported in 245 ITR 428 to drive home the point that the said provision is
not made on account of any contingent liability. The ld. AO without giving
any finding simply dismissed the claim of the assessee and disallowed the
sum of Rs.3,91,61,437/- in the assessment. The assessee submitted
before the ld. CIT(A) as under:- order for A.Y. 2001-02 that the CIT(A) agreed with the contention of
 the appellant that the bonus points accruing to the customers is a
 liability against the commission income earned from the credit cards
 business, which is brought to tax as income and since the appellant is
 following the mercantile system of accounting, Cut claim of the
 appellant is allowed. It is however, to be noted that the bonus points
 can only be redeemed when a threshold of 250 points is attained and
 moreover, the points are valid for two years from the date of
 enrolment to the reward point programme. Therefore, it is respectfully
 submitted that the finding of the CIT(A) in A.Y.2001-02 that the
 liability accrued in the year under consideration is not correct in view
 of the facts brought out above. The liability is in the nature of a
 contingent liability and this is also substantiated by the extent of the
 redemption [Rs.76,86,725/-] as compared to the provision for
 F.Y.2001-02 [Rs.6,54,71,962/-]. The provisioning upto June, 2001
 was being made at 1% i.e., the complete claim of bonus points was the
 provision. After that 0.70% of the card holders spends is stated to be
 provided for but this provision is also not in consonance with the
 extent of redemptions in F.Y.2001-02. The appellant has not furnished
 the extent of redemptions for F.Y.2000-01. The redemptions in
 F.Y.2002-03 do not have Relevance for determining the extent of
 provisioning in F.Y.2001-02. The appellant had relied on Bharat
 Earth Movers vs. CIT 245 ITR 428 [SC]. It is respectfully submitted
 that this decision is distinguishable since it was held there in that
 'what should be certain is the incurring of the liability' which as
 discussed above, is not the position in the present case. The AO is
 justified in making the disallowance of the claim of provision on
 account of bonus point on credit cards of Rs.3,91,61,437/-. Ground
 no. 10 is dismissed. 7.4. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal before us. 7.5. The ld. DR vehemently relied on the order of the lower authorities.
We have heard rival submissions. We find that this issue was subject
matter of adjudication of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for the
A.Y.2001-02 in ITA No.4424/Mum/2005 and CO No.84/Mum/2006 and ITA No.4670/Mum/2005 dated 20/11/2015 wherein it was held as under:- 85. The ld. DR reiterated the same contentions as made before the
 ld.CIT(A) and relied on the order of AO. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 86. The ld.Counsel for the assessee submitted that the ld.CIT(A) has
 passed well reasoned order by considering all aspects of the matter and
 prayed that the ground raised by the revenue be confirmed. In support of
 this contentions he placed reliance on the following decisions : 87. We find that the ld.CIT(A) has considered this issue with detailed
 discussions, we also find that an identical issue had come up before the
 various forums/ Judicial authorities, and therein the Courts have decided
 this issue in favour of the assessee. Hence, this issue stands covered in
 favour of the assessee. Therefore, we do not find any infirmity in the order
 of ld.CIT(A). Accordingly, we confirmed his findings. Ground No.2 taken
 by the revenue is dismissed. 7.5.1. Respectfully following the same, the ground No.6 raised by the
assessee is allowed. Disallowance of depreciation of Rs.1,45,80,000/- on the amount
of Rs.20 Crores paid to Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd.
(GESCO) in F.Y. 1998-99 relevant to A.Y.1999-2000. 8. We have heard rival submissions. At the time of hearing, the ld. AR
fairly stated that this issue is to be decided against assessee as it was
only an alternative ground of the assessee. He also stated that assessee 19 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. had already got relief in respect of the amounts paid to GESCO as
revenue expenditure in earlier years. Accordingly, ground No.7 raised by
the assessee is dismissed. Addition towards deferred guarantee commission of Rs.24
Lakhs: 9. The brief facts of this issue are that the assessee during the year
received guarantee commission of Rs.24 Lakhs. The assessee claimed
that the said amount is not taxable as it is received for the whole period
for which the guarantee was issued. Therefore, as per the principle of
accrual method of accounting, the guarantee commission so received is
required to be spread over the validity period of the guarantee. In other
words, the assessee treated the receipt of guarantee as deferred
guarantee commission. The ld. AO observed that the guarantee
commission in entirety is taxable in the year of receipt and cannot be
construed as advance receipts thereon. Accordingly, the ld. AO brought to
tax a sum of Rs.24 lakhs in the assessment on account of deferred
guarantee commission. Before the ld. CIT(A), the assessee submitted as
under:- 9.1. The ld. CIT(A) upheld the action of the ld. AO by observing as
under:- 9.2. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us. 9.3. We have heard rival submissions. The ld. DR vehemently relied on
the order of the ld. AO. We find that this issue has already been
adjudicated by this Tribunal in assessee's own case in ITA No.4424 and
4670/Mum/2005 for A.Y.2001-02 dated 20/11/2015 wherein this Tribunal 21 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. by placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the
case of CIT vs. Bank of Tokyo reported in 71 Taxmann.com 85 had
deleted the addition made by the ld. AO. The relevant observations of this
Tribunal for A.Y.2001-02 are reproduced as under:- 100. After hearing both the parties on the issue and on perusal of the
 records including the case relied upon by the parties, we find that the ld.
 CIT(A) has passed well reasoned order and directed the AO to delete the
 addition. For the sake of convenience, we also reproduce the relevant
 findings of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court( viz CIT Vs. Bank of Tokyo
 Ltd. ) as under : 10.1. Respectfully following the same, the ground No.2 raised by the
revenue is dismissed. Disallowance of Guest House Expenses: Rs.60,42,262/- 11. The ld. AO observed that assessee furnished the break-up of the
expenditure towards rent, salaries and other expenses like electricity,
laundry, telephone etc., but did not file any details with regard to user of
the goods used and how the expenditure was connected with the
business of the assessee u/s.37 of the Act. Accordingly, the ld. AO
disallowed the sum of Rs.60,42,262/- in the assessment. The assessee
before the ld. CIT(A) submitted that this issue is already covered in its
favour by the orders of the ld. CIT(A) for A.Yrs. 1998-99 to 2001-02.
Respectfully following the said orders, the ld. CIT(A) deleted the
disallowance of Rs.60,42,262/- made on account of guest house
expenses. 11.1. Aggrieved, the revenue is in appeal before us. 11.2. We have heard rival submissions. We find that this issue has already
been considered in assessee's own case by this Tribunal for A.Y.2001-02
in ITA No.4424/Mum/2005 dated 20/11/2015 wherein it was held as
under:- 11.2.1. Respectfully following the same ground No.4 raised by the
revenue is dismissed. Disallowance of Entertainment Expenses: - Rs.2,25,79,485/- 12. The assessee submitted before the ld. AO that the bank being in the
service industry had to incur entertainment expenses as common
business courtesy towards entertaining its customers and business
associates and had also incurred expenditure on staff get together and
communication made etc., with a view to improve morale and build team
work to improve performance. The ld. AO observed that assessee itself
separately debited expenditure on clubs and staff get together etc., and
hence, there is no need for incurrence of any separate expenditure
towards entertainment expenses amounting to Rs.2,26,79,485/- and
accordingly disallowed the same in the assessment. Before the ld. CIT(A),
the assessee submitted that this issue was already decided in its favour
for the A.Yrs 1998-99 to 2001-02 wherein the disallowance of Rs.1 lakhs
alone was sustained and remaining sums were deleted. The ld. CIT(A)
restricted the disallowance to Rs.1 lakh by following the earlier orders in
assessee's own case. 12.1. Aggrieved, the revenue is in appeal before us. 12.2. We have heard rival submissions. The ld. DR vehemently relied on
the order of the ld. AO. We find that this issue has already been decided
in assessee's own case for the A.Y.2001-02 in ITA No.4424/Mum/2005 25 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. dated 20/11/2015 among other assessment years wherein it was held as
under:- 12.2.1. Respectfully following the same, the ground No.5 raised by the
revenue is dismissed. 13. The ground No.9 raised by the assessee with regard to transfer
pricing issue is general in nature and does not require any specific
adjudication for the A.Y.2002-03. Transfer pricing issues: 14. The assessee is an Indian branch office of HSBC and a reference was
received from ADIT International Taxation-3(1), Mumbai on 30/09/2003 u/s.92CA(1) of the Act by the ld. TPO for computing the arm's length
price (ALP) in relation to international transactions with associated
enterprises (AEs) reported in form 3CEB filed along with the return of
income for the A.Y.2002-03. An additional reference was also received
from the ld. AO for computing ALP of the international transactions
relating to marketing services for correspondent banking activity and also
oversight responsibilities of the employees of the HSBC India. The ld. TPO
observed that assessee is one of the oldest foreign bank operating in
India in commercial as well as retail banking. The commercial banking
includes corporate banking, treasury, custodian services, institutional 26 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. banking and retail banking includes home loans, consumer finance and
individual deposits. During the year, the bank had international
transactions with head office situated at Hong Kong, foreign branches of
the bank, affiliated entities of the Bank in India as well as overseas. The
main international transactions are for sale and purchase of securities and
treasury bills, bank charges / guarantee commission received, brokerage
paid, consultancy fee paid, marketing commission paid, debt syndication
fee received, fee for marketing of derivatives, commission received for
services with regard to import of gold by Indian customers, interest
received / paid on deposits / NOSTRO accounts, premium paid on options
(net), net receipt on interest, head office expenses payable and various
reimbursements / cost allocations to Indian group entities. Correspondent Banking Activities: 14.2. The assessee vide reply dated 20/12/2004 submitted before the ld.
TPO submitted as under:- It can be observed from the above that HSBC India and the Overseas HSBC offices
derive reciprocal benefits due to they being a part of the HSBC Group and the non
charging of costs for providing the marketing support services to Overseas HSBC
entities is not prejudicial to this interest of HSBC India. Without prejudice to the above contention, as desired by you, the details about the
nature of services rendered by INM IB and the costs of providing these services arc
provided hereunder: TPO as under:- M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 14.5. The assessee vide letter dated 21/03/2005 submitted before the ld.
TPO with regard to marketing of derivatives by attaching an extract from
the global transfer pricing policy relevant to the year under consideration
in respect of determination of fees for marketing activities for derivative
products. The assessee submitted that the fees received by HSBC India
i.e. the assessee, was in accordance with the said policy. 14.6. The ld. TPO has observed that the bank had rendered above
mentioned services to the foreign entities and for these services, the
income is earned by such foreign entities. Out of the income earned,
HSBC India was not rewarded for the functions undertaken by it, despite
the fact that HSBC India had incurred certain costs for rendering these
services. The ld. TPO observed that any independent entity, who renders
services to any other independent entity, would not render the services
without adequate compensation. The ld. TPO observed that since
assessee had not rendered similar services to any unrelated entity in India
and hence, the Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method (CUP) is not
applicable. He also observed that considering the facts and circumstances
of the case and the non-availability of data, application of Resale Price
Method (RPM) and Profit Split Method (PSM) is also ruled out.
Accordingly, he adopted Transaction Net Margin Method (TNMM) as the
Most Appropriate Method (MAM). The ld. TPO adopted the Profit Level
Indicator as total cost plus mark up. The ld. TPO observed that for
obtaining the mark up, it is necessary to identify the independent
companies who have a functional and risk profile similar to HSBC India
i.e. the assessee, relating to the transaction. He observed that such 30 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. companies would be those rendering fee based services in the financial
services industry. 14.7. Based on the information available in the database available in the
public domain namely PROWESS, CAPITALINE, such independent
companies were identified by the ld. TPO applied by identifying
companies earning more than 75% of their income from fee based
activities. The assessee in response thereto vide letter dated 21/03/2005
submitted before the ld. TPO as under:- 14.8. The ld. TPO observed in his order as under:- the comparability of uncontrolled transaction with the international
transaction. A search was conducted by this office for the companies who are engaged
in the financial consultancy services, business consultancy services and
other consultancy services and the companies which were earning more
than 75% of the income from fee based activity were identified for FAR
analysis. After considering the Directors Report and Notes to Accounts of
the companies, the companies mentioned in the show cause notice were
considered as comparables. No company can be identified, whose FAR analysis would be exactly
comparable to the international transactions, considering the availability
of data. The services rendered by the bank are unique and are rendered by foreign
banks only. No Indian company renders the exactly similar services,
therefore, there is a shortage "of the reliable data. The Transactional Net Margin Method used by this office as the Most
Appropriate Method measures the total return derived from the controlled
tax payer's most narrowly defined business activity for which reliable data
incorporating the controlled transactions under review is available. It
tests the Arm's Length Character by comparing the Operating Profits
earned by parties engaged in similar business activities. Under the
TNMM, comparable transactions need to be only broadly similar.
Significant product diversity and some functional diversity between the
controlled and uncontrolled entities are acceptable. In this context, Para
3.27 of the OECD Guidelines reads as : as against Nil. Due to this, an upward adjustment of Rs.19,076,528/- is
 required to be made to the income of the assessee." 14.9. With the aforesaid observations, the ld. TPO made an upward
adjustment of Rs.1,90,76,528/- to the ALP in respect of correspondent
banking activities of the assessee. 14.10. While applying TNMM, the ld. TPO aggregated the entire direct,
indirect cost of the correspondent banking department of the assessee
along with head office expenses to calculate the cost base and
subsequently applied mark up on this cost to arrive at the adjustment.
The ld. CIT(A) provided an adhoc relief by restricting the cost base to
only 75%. 14.11. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal before us. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 14.12. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record including the various judicial pronouncements that
were relied upon by the parties at the time of hearing before us. The
preliminary facts stated hereinabove are not reiterated herein for the sake
of brevity. From the facts narrated above, we find that INM IB majorly
manages relationships of Indian FIs to provide services and products. INM
IB offers vis-à-vis the Indian FIs including marketing of loans, payments
and cash management facilities, guarantee and other products offered by
the assessee. These products when sold by the assessee, result in
earning of revenue like float income, guarantee commission, fee income
as a result of payment and cash management facilities etc., The details of
the said revenue earned from sale of products to the Indian FIs are as
under:- 14.12.1. We find that the assessee had duly offered the aforesaid
amount of Rs.4.4856 Crores as its income in the return of income. We
find considerable force in the arguments advanced by the ld. AR that the
Indian banks have to establish relations with the overseas banks as the
Indian banks themselves do not have network of branches outside India. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. lNM IB markets the Nostro accounts and trade finance services offered by
overseas branches of HSBC to such Indian banks. The lNM IB division
does not use any additional facility, and the employees providing this
support do not have any special marketing skills or knowledge of the
products provided by the overseas HSBC branches. It is important to
emphasize that the global network of the assessee is a direct asset and
mainly benefit the assessee to have global reach and the ability to offer
services under its network. This directly encourages FI's to approach the
assessee for the services as compared to others who may not have such
global reach. It may also be noted that the overseas HSBC branches also
provide services that benefit the assessee, i.e., in selling INR Vostro
accounts of HSBC India to banks domiciled outside India, The assessee
does not pay any amount to overseas HSBC branches for such marketing
services. It is also pertinent to note that as a result of various services of
overseas HSBC branches, as above, assessee had earned float income
of Rs.1.97 Crores on the interest free balances maintained by the Indian
banks which have maintained Vostro account with the assessee. This fact
is not disputed by the revenue before us. Hence, it could be safely
concluded that the assessee and the overseas HSBC offices being a part
of the HSBC group derived reciprocal benefits and thus the non-charging
of costs for providing the incidental marketing support services to
overseas HSBC entities would not cause any prejudice to the interest of
the assessee as well as the revenue. 14.12.2. Further, the total cost of INM IB division is only Rs 1.55 Crores,
whereas the income earned from the activity performed by INM IB division
is Rs 4.48 Crores (including income from Indian FI and Rs 1.97 Crores-
float income from Vostro account). Even if only the float income from
Vostro Account is considered, still the assessee has earned a profit of Rs.
42 Lakhs (1.97-1.55 cr) resulting in profit margin of 27%, which has been
already offered to tax. The profit margin arrived is much higher than the 36 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. margin of 22 percent arrived at by the TPO. If both the income (income
from Indian FI and Float income) are considered, the profit margin stands
at 189 percent. This shows that the assessee is adequately compensated
for the activities carried out by INM IB division. Hence the allegation of
the revenue that the assessee has not been adequately compensated has
no merits. 14.12.3. We find lot of force in the case law relied upon by the ld. AR
before us that when services are rendered free of charge to the AE by the
assessee and similarly AE also provided reciprocal services free of
charge to the assessee, there cannot be any reason for doubting the said
transaction or make any transfer pricing adjustment thereon as both the
assessee as well as the AEs are part of global conglomerate. The
decision relied upon by the ld. AR in this regard is in the case of Aramex
India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT reported in 51 Taxman.com 573 (Mumbai
Tribunal). 14.13. In view of the aforesaid observations in the peculiar facts and
circumstances of the case herein and respectfully following the aforesaid
decision of this Tribunal, we hold that the assessee had considerably
benefitted out of earning income from Indian FIs and float income
pursuant to correspondent banking activities and the said benefit directly
flows to the assessee. 14.14. It would be crucial to note that assessee had reflected more than
100 international transactions in form No.3CEB filed along with the return
of income and the same were accepted to be at arm's length by the ld.
TPO. Admittedly these transactions include items which are marketed by
INM IB division such as custodian charges, guarantee commission
charges etc as is evident from Annexure 'C to form 3CEB. Hence, it could
be seen that the main transactions were found to be at arm's length and 37 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. the incidental benefit arising out of such transaction has been considered
as a separate transaction. We find in the instant case that the main
business transactions have been accepted to be at arm's length and
hence, the ld. TPO cannot separately treat the incidental benefit as a
separate transaction unless it is shown that they are separate from the
main business activities. In this regard, we find that the ld. AR placed
reliance on the decision of Co-ordinate bench decision of this Tribunal in
the case of Det Norske Veritos A/S. v. Additional Director of Income Tax
reported in 67 taxmann.com 16 (Mumbai Tribunal) wherein it was held
that if the main international transactions have been benchmarked, then
incidental transaction cannot be considered as a standalone transaction
and an adjustment to that effect cannot be made independently. 14.15. We find that with regard to allocation of cost and mark up thereon,
the ld. AR argued that the ld. TPO and the ld. CIT(A) erred in considering
the head office expenses for arriving at the cost base. It was submitted
that only indirect costs are attributable to the activities should have been
considered as concerned employees perform the work in the Indian
business of the assessee and they do not use any significant additional
facility to provide marketing support in respect of correspondent banking
activities. Further, there is no reason for allocating head office expenses
to the costs incurred for rendering services as the head office expenditure
allocated to India is for the purpose of main line of banking business
undertaken by the assessee and the inputs provided by the head office
are not directly related to the incidental marketing support activity
rendered by the assessee. Though we find lot of force in the aforesaid
argument of the ld. AR, in any case, the nature of services are such that
they are reciprocal in nature and hence, there cannot be any attribution of
mark up on the same. Hence, we hold that no mark up should be loaded
on the attribution of costs towards incidental marketing activities 38 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. undertaken by the assessee in connection with the correspondent
banking activities. 14.16. In view of the aforesaid observations, we are not inclined to
adjudicate the other arguments advanced by the ld. AR that no search
process has been identified by the ld. TPO and no AE has been identified
in respect of the subject mentioned marketing support services etc and
the comparables chosen thereon by the ld. TPO etc as the adjudication of
the same would become academic in nature. 14.17. In view of elaborate observations given hereinabove, we hold that
no transfer pricing adjustment on account of correspondent banking
activity is warranted in the instant case. Accordingly, ground Nos.10.1 to
10.4 raised by the assessee are allowed. Services provided by employees of the bank to overseas AEs: M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 15.2 The assessee also submitted the details of local employees working
in Indian branches who have spent some time for AEs and these details
were given in the form of a separate annexure before the ld. TPO
together with estimated number of days spent by them and their
proportionate salary cost. 15.3. The assessee vide letter dated 21/03/2005 further submitted that
with regard to allocation of costs of expatriates / Indian employees
rendered services to AEs as under:- RL Asst Manager 2,060,904 340,274 (based on 597,181 937,455
Gopalkrishnan Internal Audit actual time spent)

Pramod Maveli Executive 879,337 156, 144 (based on 270,523 426,667
 Internal Audit actual time spent)

Total 22, 716, 515

15.4 The assessee submitted that these employees normally rendered
the services from India only. In case of travel, the travel expenses,
boarding and lodging expenses are borne by the respective entities. The
cost attributed to the services rendered to the AEs is based on the actual
time spent and maintained by the bank in the form of time sheets. 15.5. The ld. TPO applied TNMM as the MAM with net cost plus as the
profit level indicator. He adopted the comparable entities rendering the
services in the telephone service industry and arrived at the comparable
mean margin of 22.91% and applied the same on the total cost of
Rs.2,27,16,515/-. Accordingly, the ALP of the said transaction was worked
out at Rs.2,79,20,869/- by the ld. TPO in his order. 15.6. With regard to services provided by the employees of the assessee
to overseas AEs, we find that certain employees of the assessee play the
oversight role for foreign AEs on account of their functions and role. It
was stated that however, these employees predominantly render services
for India. These employees play a relevant role in the assessee's day to
day running of the business. Along with these functions within the
assessee organization, these employees were required to liaision and
coordination at the group level. We find that the ld. TPO had considered 41 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. the liaision and coordination at the group level done by these employees
as international transaction. The ld. TPO had adopted TNMM as MAM to
benchmark the said transaction. Based on the proportionate time spent
by these employees, the ld. TPO aggregated the proportionate direct cost
and indirect cost along with Head Office expenses to compute the cost
base and then applied mark up on the said cost base to arrive at the
adjustment. We find considerable force in the arguments advanced by the
ld. AR that generally in a multinational group, several oversight roles
would arise within one's functions as an employee. These are mere
incidental activities carried out by the employees, which acquire group-
wise liasoning and coordination and the same need not be required to be
compensated. These employees are not employed for day to day
functioning of the group companies. The activities carried out by the
employees were considered as a separate international transaction by
segregating them from routine functions by the ld TPO. We also find that
in case of certain employees, the assessee had suo-moto not claimed
deduction of proportionate salary pertaining to services provided to
foreign AEs. Hence, the same cannot be subject matter of consideration
while making TP adjustment as it would lead to double disallowance. In
any case, these employees render liasoning and coordination of services
at group level as a mere incidental activity and the same need not be
even considered as separate international transaction warranting any
benchmarking thereon. As we have already held, that the main banking
transactions carried out by the assessee have been accepted to be at
ALP, the incidental activities cannot be separated and benchmarked
independently. Hence, the transfer pricing adjustment made in this regard
by the ld. TPO in respect of role of certain employees of the bank for the
A.Y.2002-03 is directed to be deleted. Accordingly, the ground Nos. 11.1.
to 11.4 raised by the assessee for the A.Y.2002-03 are allowed. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 16. Ground No.12 raised by the assessee for A.Y.2002-03 is with regard
to charging of interest u/s.234D of the Act which is consequential in
nature. The ld. AO is hereby directed to re-compute the same based on
the fact of actual refunds granted to the assessee. 17. The revenue has raised the solitary ground on the transfer pricing
issue with regard to deletion of transfer pricing adjustment of
Rs.10,80,225/- in respect of support services in relation to External
Commercial Borrowings (ECBs). 17.1. The brief facts of this adjustment are that the assessee submitted
details of ECBs by Indian Corporates from the overseas branches to the
extent they relate to the relationship / efforts of the Corporate banking
team of HSBC India as under:- Additionally in respect of relationship / efforts of HSBC India, an amount
of 50,000 USD was earned by HSBC India from HSBC Mauritius in respect
of ECB by Reliance Industries Pvt. Ltd., The charging of fees of HSBC
India is based on the commercial parameters which include the
relationship with the Indian Corporate, the efforts required from HSBC
India, the overall cost of borrowing to the client etc., Accordingly, no
additional fee has been charged to HSBC Mauritius in respect of ECB to
L & T. The ld. TPO asked the assessee to submit the details of income
earned by the foreign branches in respect of such ECB deals and the
details of fee sharing with HSBC India. Assessee submitted that in respect
of Banner Pharmacaps India deal, the estimated indicative earnings
overseas was USD 0.02 million and in respect of the other deal it was
Australian Dollar 0.13 million. The assessee submitted that no fee is
shared with HSBC India. In respect of continuing transactions, after
disbursal of the ECBs, the Indian Branch undertake the normal monitoring
of the accounts and follow up with the customers. For these services, the
assessee is not receiving any compensation from the foreign branches
who have advanced the ECBs to the customers of Indian Branches. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 17.4. The ld. TPO observed that the arm's length price in respect of
services rendered for continuing ECB transactions is required to be
worked out because the overseas branch is helped by a local branch for
the documentation, collecting fees, ensuring smooth and timely payment
of interest etc., and credit review and monitoring of performance,
monitoring of breach of covenants, monitoring of assets, co-ordination
with other banks, lenders to clients under syndication and preparation of
watch list report. 17.5. The ld. TPO observed that for the activity relating to origination and
marketing of foreign currency loans, provided by foreign branches of the
banks, the uncontrolled transactions are not available, as the same
service are not being provided by any Indian entity to unrelated party,
similarly the foreign branches of the foreign bank are not obtaining such
services from any unrelated party in India. Therefore, the CUP method by
using uncontrolled transactions cannot be applied. The ld TPO observed
that during the Transfer Pricing Assessments, in the cases of other foreign
banks, it is seen that the banks are receiving compensation for services
provided for ECBs disbursed earlier. He observed that this information is
not discussed, by naming the bank, for the confidentiality reasons.
However, from the data available, it is seen that, the Indian branches are
being compensated for the functions performed, and assets used, for the
transactions relating to continued ECBs, granted by the foreign branches
to the Indian Customers. The Indian branches are being compensated on
different basis. Some of these are : M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. (ii) The net interest margin (Spread), earned by the foreign branches,
from the ECB loans, fresh as well as continuing, is being shared upto 50%
with the Indian branch. The sharing depends on the spread earned. More
the spread, more the sharing. 17.6 For these transactions, the uncontrolled data is not available in
India, because of non availability of such data, it is considered
appropriate to use controlled data available. On the issue of use of
controlled transaction, paragraph 1.70 of the 1995 OECD Report indicates
that evidence from enterprises engaged in controlled transactions with
associated enterprises may be useful in understanding the transaction
under review or as a pointer to further investigation. The dealings
between associated enterprises, for comparison, can also be used in the
cases of last resort where : 17.7. The ld TPO observed that the information available in the controlled
transactions can be used as a guide. In the cases, where the Indian
branch has not received any compensation or the compensation received
is less than arm's length, depending on the facts and circumstances of the
case, either of the above basis could be adopted for computing the Arm's
Length Price, however, if either net interest or fee is shared with Indian
Branch, it may not be the sharing at arm's length, for the following
reasons : The client would agree to pay a higher fee with less interest rate
 or vice versa because the loan disburser is concerned with the
 value received in the transaction and not the split thereof. (b) The income streams from ECBs would be the interest margin,
 commitment fees or any similar charges paid by the borrower and
 booked in overseas branch books. If a particular split from either
 interest or fee is used for computing the arm's length price, it
 might lead to shifting of consideration for the ECBs, from fee to
 interest or vice versa. 17.8. The Arm's Length Price in respect of the services rendered for
continuing ECB transactions is also required to be worked out as the bank
is rendering the services which are discussed above. 17.9. The compensation for such services is required to be computed at
Arm's Length. In the present case, by using the data available in the case
of other foreign banks, the 25% of the earnings received by the Foreign
Branches is considered as compensation at arm's length. The transactions
of providing the support for continued ECB transactions offered by the
foreign branches, are the unique transactions undertaken by the foreign
banks only, and in such cases, it is reasonable and appropriate to
use the data in controlled transactions. For computing the arm's
length price of this transaction, the CUP method but with
controlled transactions, is used. The cost plus method/transactional
net margin method is not used, because of the non availability of exact
cost, and the results by using the CUP method are realistic. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. The total fee received by the foreign branches is
Banner Pharma ECB USD 0.02 Million equals to Rs. 976,000/-
NHAVA Seva International ECB AUD 0.13 Million Rs.3,344,900/- Rs.4,320,900/- 25% of this works out to Rs.1,080,225/- This is added to the income of the assessee. 17.10. The ld. CIT(A) deleted the transfer pricing adjustment in the sum
of Rs.10,80,225/- by observing as under:- 17.11. Aggrieved, the revenue is in appeal before us. 17.12. We have heard rival submissions. At the preliminary facts stated
hereinabove remained undisputed and hence, the same are not reiterated
herein for the sake of brevity. It is not in dispute that assessee had 48 ITA No.3857/Mum/2006 and other appeals M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. received Debt Syndication Fees of Rs.67,68,620/- together with 50,000
USD as its fee / commission income for enabling the Indian customers to
avail ECBs from its overseas branches. The said receipt of fee /
commission income has been accepted to be at arm's length. Hence,
there is no question of further fee that is required for the assessee in
respect of continuing ECBs. We find that the ld. CIT(A) had categorically
observed that HSBC India does not assume any risk in respect of
continuing ECBs compared to the nature of service rendered by them.
This categorical finding has not been controverted by the revenue before
us. Hence, we hold that no transfer pricing adjustment in respect of the
services rendered by HSBC India in respect of continuing ECBs more so
when the entire commission income / Debt Syndication Fee income
received by the assessee have already been accepted to be at arm's
length. Accordingly, ground No.6 raised by the revenue is dismissed. 18. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed and appeal
filed by the revenue is dismissed. 04) (Revenue Appeal) 19. Both the parties before us mutually agreed that all the grounds
raised by both the parties for A.Y.2003-04 are exactly identical to those
raised by the respective parties in A.Y.2002-03 supra, except ground No.9
raised by the assessee with regard to interest u/s.244A of the Act. Hence,
the decision rendered with regard to respective grounds for A.Y.2002-03
in assessee appeal as well as revenue appeal would apply with equal
force for A.Y.2003-04 also, except with variance in figures. M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 20. With regard to ground No.9 raised by the assessee for A.Y.2003-04 on
the aspect of interest u/s.244A of the Act, we find that the same would
become consequential in nature in view of the aforesaid decision on
various grounds. The ld. AO is directed to re-compute the said interest u/s.244A of the Act. We hold that the arguments of the ld. AR in this
regard are left open and ld. AO is directed to recomputed the interest u/s
244A of the Act in accordance with law while giving effect to this order. 21. TO SUM UP:- M/s. Hongkong and Sanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. Copy of the Order forwarded to : //True Copy//

 BY ORDER,

 (Asstt. Registrar)
 ITAT, Mumbai