An “out of court dispute settlement body” named the Appeals Center Europe was certified by Irish regulators on October 8, 2024 to act as a referee on content moderation disputes across the 27 nations in the European Union, reported the Associated Press . Using this forum, social media users in this region will soon be able to challenge decisions by platforms to remove posts and videos for breaking their rules or leave up others that may violate them. The forum will begin by looking into cases involving major platforms like Facebook, YouTube and TikTok.

The EU’s Digital Services Act or DSA prescribes various measures for intermediaries to ensure users’ online safety. One of these measures is to direct tech companies and social media platforms to work with dispute settlement bodies and comply with any decisions they make. EU officials in Brussels wanted to give EU citizens a way to challenge any decisions made by Big Tech companies to balance the right to free speech against the goal of curbing online risks, said AP.

As per the report, the Appeals Center will be similar to Meta’s Oversight Board which acts like a supreme court for thorny decisions about content moderation. While the Oversight Board cherry-picks the cases it investigates, the Center has to rule on every case it gets. Also, the Appeals Center can’t publicly disclose its decisions.

Unlike the Oversight Board’s decisions that are binding on intermediaries, the Appeals Center’s decisions will be non-binding and limited to whether content violates each platform’s rules. However, users will have their fees refunded if the Center rules in favor of their disputes, regardless of whether or not the platform takes any action. The Appeals Center will charge tech companies 95 euros for every case it hears and a five euro fee for users who raise disputes.

The Appeals Center will hear cases regarding “everything from violence and incitement to hate speech to bullying and harassment” by the end of 2024, said CEO Thomas Hughes.

“It could be everything from a case that relates to a head of state all the way through to a neighborly dispute,” said Hughes, adding that there will be a 90-day deadline for decisions.

Commenting on the Center, the Oversight Board spokesman Ben Wyskida said, “We don’t know a lot about the appeals Center and how it will work, but moderation enforcement under the DSA has promised that other approaches do not. [While the DSA] hasn’t been perfect … it is still far and away superior to anything in the United States.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event