(PER : HONOURABLE MS.JUSTICE HARSHA DEVANI) 1. Since common questions of law and facts arise in all
 these petitions, the same were taken up for hearing together
 and are decided by this common judgment. 2. For the sake of convenience, reference is made to the
 facts as appearing in Special Civil Application No.16426 of Page 2 of 118 HC-NIC Page 2 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 2016. 3. This petition has initially been filed challenging the
 disclosure statement dated 14.09.2016 (Annexure "J" to the
 petition) issued by the second respondent - designated
 authority. However, during the pendency of the petition, the
 final findings came to be issued on 23.09.2016, and hence, an
 amendment came to be moved which was granted whereby
 the petitioners were permitted to challenge the final findings.
 While granting interim relief in the matter, this court by an
 order dated 13.12,2016 had permitted the first respondent -
 Union of India to issue a notification under rule 18 of the
 Customs Tariff (Identification, Assessment and Collection of
 Antidumping Duty on Dumped Articles and for Determination
 of Injury) Rules, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as "the rules" if it
 deems so fit. Thereafter a notification dated 21.12.2016 came
 to be issued under rule 18 of the Antidumping Rules whereby
 the final findings came to be accepted. The petitioners,
 thereafter moved another amendment and were granted
 permission to challenge the notification dated 21.12.2016. 4. The petitioners herein are companies engaged, inter alia,
 in the business of manufacturing Soda Ash in the State of
 Gujarat. It is the case of the petitioners that Soda Ash is an
 industrial produce and its main raw materials are high
 chemical grade limestone and salt which are available largely
 in the Saurashtra region of the State of Gujarat. On account of
 availability of raw materials in this area, major manufacturers
 of Soda Ash, including the petitioners, have set up their plants
 in Saurashtra region in the State of Gujarat. Soda Ash is a raw
 material for the Glass manufacturing industry, Soaps and Page 3 of 118 HC-NIC Page 3 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Detergent industry, Silicate industry and other Sodium based
 chemical industries. 5. In China PR, European Union, Kenya, Pakistan, Iran,
 Ukraine, USA (hereinafter referred to as "the Exporting
 Countries"), the production of Soda Ash is done in large
 volumes and in any case, much higher than their own
 domestic consumption. It is the case of the petitioners that
 surplus capacities with some of the Exporting Countries are
 higher than the entire Indian demand. Thus, the producers in
 these countries have a compulsion to export their surplus
 capacities, even if such exports are at a price lower than the
 normal price. Since India is a huge market for Soda Ash, the
 Exporting Countries producers' resorted to dumping Soda Ash
 in India at prices below the associated normal value, which
 resulted in dumping and injury to the domestic manufacturers
 including the petitioners. 6. In this background, representations came to be made on
 behalf of the petitioners and other industries including the
 Alkali Manufacturers' Association of India to the designated
 authority for imposition of anti-dumping duty on exports of
 Soda Ash from the Exporting Countries. Based on the inquiry
 conducted by the designated authority, final findings dated
 17.2.2012 (hereinafter referred to as the "Final Soda Ash
 notification") came to be issued, whereby Anti-Dumping Duty
 came to be levied on exports of Soda Ash from the Exporting
 Countries to India. It is the case of the petitioners that while
 issuing the Final Soda Ash notification, the second respondent
 did not consider it fit to include, inter alia, the cost towards
 freight incurred for Soda Ash while computing the margin of Page 4 of 118 HC-NIC Page 4 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 injury for deciding the quantum of anti-dumping duty, though
 it included the freight cost incurred on the imported product up
 to the Indian ports. Such non-inclusion of freight came to be
 challenged by the Alkali Manufacturers' Association of India by
 way of Writ Petition (Civil) No. 4345 of 2013 before the High
 Court of Delhi, wherein the constitutional and legal validity of
 the Customs Tariff (Identification, Assessment and Collection of
 Anti-Dumping Duty on Dumped Articles and for Determination
 of Injury) Rules, 1995 were also challenged. The said petition
 at the relevant time was pending before the Delhi High Court. 7. It is further the case of the petitioners that the Final Soda
 Ash notification was followed by the issuance of Notification
 No. 34/2012-Customs (ADD) dated 3.7.2012 issued by the
 Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of
 India under section 9A (1) of the Act read with rules 18 and 20
 of the Anti-Dumping Rules, notifying anti-dumping duties on
 import of Soda Ash originating in or exported from the
 Exporting Countries. Sometime in the year 2015, the All India
 Glass Manufacturers' Federation (AIGMF), a body purporting to
 represent importers/users of Soda Ash made an application to
 the designated authority for initiation of a mid-term review of
 the anti-dumping duties recommended vide the Final Soda Ash
 notification and implemented vide the Customs Notification
 dated 3.7.2012. It is further the case of the petitioners that on
 the basis of such application, without examining any evidence
 substantiating that removal of anti-dumping duty would not
 cause continuance or recurrence of dumping, the designated
 authority issued a notification dated 21.07.2015 initiating a
 mid-term review and investigation of the final findings notified
 in the Final Soda Ash notification purportedly in exercise of Page 5 of 118 HC-NIC Page 5 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 power conferred under rule 23 of the Anti-Dumping Rules. It
 appears that the designated authority has called upon the
 exporting countries, manufacturers of exporting countries,
 importers/users of Soda Ash and associations representing
 them as well as the domestic industry, including the
 petitioners, who are protected by virtue of the Final Soda Ash
 notification. It is the case of the petitioners that they had
 caused detailed submissions to be filed representing the
 petitioners and other Soda Ash manufacturers in India before
 the designated authority. A gist of such submissions given is as
 under: 8. It is further the case of the petitioners that on
 12.09.2016, a hearing/meeting came to be held between the
 representatives of the domestic industry and the designated
 authority, where further submissions dated 11.09.2016 were
 handed over. The Petitioners' representative was, however,
 asked to furnish the said submissions separately. Accordingly,
 submissions dated 11.09.2016 were submitted by way of a
 letter dated 14.09.2016. 9. It is also the case of the petitioners that under the
 provisions of rule 16 of the Anti-Dumping Rules, the designated
 authority before issuing final notification discloses essential
 facts received and interpreted by it which are under
 consideration for the purpose of arriving at a final conclusion.
 In case of a mid-term review, like the present one, where the
 preliminary determination is not mandated, the disclosure
 statement issued under rule 16 of the Anti-Dumping Rules is
 the first and only opportunity, whereby the petitioners would
 have the entire data and facts with its tabulation made
 available so as to offer their comments and if necessary rebut
 the same with a view to point out why on the basis of the data
 compiled by the designated authority, no review is mandated.
 According to the petitioners, the disclosure statement forms
 the very basis for the petitioners to make comprehensive
 submissions in order to canvas their case. 10. It is the case of the petitioners that the designated
 authority, on the very day on which the further submissions
 were tendered, that is, on 14.09.2016, issued the impugned
 disclosure statement. The designated authority had given time
 up to 20.09.2016 to file comments on the impugned disclosure
 statements. It being the case of the petitioners that the
 designated authority had finally decided the issues pertaining
 to mid-term review while issuing the impugned disclosure
 statement dated 14.09.2016, the petitioners filed the present
 petitions challenging the legality and validity of the said
 disclosure statements. 11. By an order dated 26.09.2016, while issuing notice in the
 matters, which was made returnable on 17.10.2016, in the Page 8 of 118 HC-NIC Page 8 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 meanwhile this court had restrained the respondent No.2-
 designated authority from rendering the final finding on the
 mid-term review undertaken pursuant to the notice dated
 21.07.2015. The court had observed that it would be open for
 the respondents to proceed with the inquiry and investigation
 and it would also be open to the petitioners to place their
 submissions on record before the authorities so as to avoid any
 unnecessary wastage of time, but the final findings or any
 subsequent decision may not be rendered till the next date of
 hearing. 12. It is the case of the petitioners that vide email dated
 26.09.2016 sent at 1:32 p.m., the advocate for the petitioner
 intimated the designated authority of the above referred order
 and that at that time the final findings were neither uploaded
 on the website of the respondents nor communicated to the
 petitioners or their representative. The designated authority
 vide email dated 26.09.2016 at 04:28 p.m. intimated that they
 had vide Notification No.15/28/2015-DGAD dated 23.09.2016
 issued the final findings. It is the case of the petitioners that to
 the extent the final findings are merely a reproduction of the
 impugned disclosure statement dated 14.09.2016, the same
 are illegal. The petitioners have alleged that on account of the
 fact that the issuance of the above notification was
 communicated by the designated authority after it was
 informed of the order dated 26.09.2016 passed in this petition,
 the same appears to be back-dated and the petitioners believe
 that the final findings are non est in the eye of law. However,
 out of abundant caution, the petitioners have challenged the
 legality and validity of the final findings. Subsequent thereto,
 in view of the liberty granted by this court, the respondent Page 9 of 118 HC-NIC Page 9 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 No.6, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, Government
 of India has issued Notification No.55/2016-Customs (ADD)
 dated 21.12.2016, rescinding the Notification No.34/2012-
 Customs (ADD) dated 03.07.2012 by which anti-dumping duty
 had been imposed on imports of Soda Ash from the Exporting
 Countries. The said notification is also subject matter of
 challenge in the present petitions. 12.1 It may be pertinent to note that insofar as the imports
 of Soda Ash from Turkey and Russia are concerned, final
 findings were initially issued on 09.02.2013 and that the
 customs notification was issued on 18.04.2013. The mid-term
 review was initiated on 01.10.2015, however, the impugned
 disclosure statement was issued simultaneously on 14.09.2016
 and final findings were issued on 23.09.2016, both of which
 are subject matter of challenge in Special Civil Applications
 No.16427 of 2016 and No.16429 of 2016. 13. By an order dated 13.12.2016, this court had heard the
 matters for admission and grant of interim relief, and had
 issued rule in the matters and had passed a detailed order
 holding that the petitions were maintainable and had granted
 interim relief whereby it had permitted the Central
 Government to proceed further pursuant to the final findings
 submitted by the designated authority. However, it was
 provided that in case pursuant to the final findings recorded by
 the designated authority, the Central Government publishes a
 notification in the official gazette under rule 18 of the Anti-
 Dumping Rules, the same shall not be acted upon till the final
 disposal of the petitions. Being aggrieved by the above
 referred order, one of the respondents had approached the Page 10 of 118 HC-NIC Page 10 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Supreme Court in Petition for Special Leave to Appeal (Civil)
 No.2194 of 2017. By an order dated 27.01.2017, the Supreme
 Court had not entertained the special leave petition at that
 stage and had left it open to the parties to agitate all issues
 including the maintainability/further continuation of the writ
 petition in the light of the subsequent notification dated
 21.12.2016. The Supreme Court had further observed that it
 had deemed it proper to take the above view having regard to
 the time frame fixed by the High Court for disposal of the writ
 petition i.e. on or before 15.02.2017. 14. Mr. Mihir Joshi, Senior Advocate, learned counsel with Mr.
 Gaurav Mathur, learned advocate for the petitioners assailed
 the impugned disclosure statement by submitting that in effect
 and substance the designated authority has finally decided the
 issue of continuance of anti-dumping duty and has concluded
 that though dumping continues and is likely to be intensified in
 future, there is no warrant for continuing the remedy of anti-
 dumping duty on Soda Ash since one of the parameters for
 determining injury, namely price undercutting is absent.
 According to the learned counsel the designated authority
 exceeded its jurisdiction under rule 16 of the Anti-Dumping
 Duty Rules in issuing the disclosure statement inasmuch as the
 designated authority has no jurisdiction to decide on the issue
 of continuance of anti-dumping duty. It was submitted that the
 objective of a disclosure statement is that the designated
 authority may collate the facts and present them to the parties
 so as to enable them to respond to and/or object to the same.
 It was pointed out that the designated authority has in fact
 called upon the interested parties to respond to the disclosure
 statement, to submit that while doing so it could not have Page 11 of 118 HC-NIC Page 11 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 decided the mid-term review finally making it fiat accompli for
 the parties. It was urged that the designated authority while
 issuing the disclosure statement could not have gone ahead
 and concluded the issues before the petitioners and other
 parties had an opportunity to respond to the facts presented in
 the disclosure statement. It was contended that a plain reading
 of the conclusions in the disclosure statement shows that the
 same are final and not tentative and that such approach on the
 part of the designated authority is clearly in contravention of
 the principles of natural justice and fairness and amounts to
 arbitrary exercise of statutory powers. 14.1 Next it was submitted that the action of the designated
 authority in initiating the mid-term review is without
 jurisdiction and illegal inasmuch as the initiation notification
 does not record any finding as to the existence of facts
 warranting such review, much less consideration of any
 evidence produced on record which would show that a change
 of lasting nature has occasioned since the Final Soda Ash
 notification was issued and that the change is such that there
 is no likelihood of dumping and/or injury to continue or recur in
 case the anti-dumping duty is revoked. 14.2 The learned counsel drew the attention of the court to
 the following facts. The notice of initiation of investigation was
 issued on 21.07.2015 and public hearing was held on
 02.03.2016; the designated authority sought extension of time
 on 27.06.2016 and vide order dated 15.07.2016, the Central
 Government extended the time up till 30.09.2016; the
 disclosure statement was issued on 14.09.2016 and the parties
 were told to offer their comments by 20.09.2016, that is, Page 12 of 118 HC-NIC Page 12 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 within a short period of six days without granting adequate
 time to formulate the defence. It was submitted that final
 findings were required to be issued on or before 30.09.2016
 and hence, the designated authority had in all sixteen days'
 time to call for objections, hearing and consideration of the
 response of the parties. The attention of the court was invited
 to the post disclosure comments of the private respondents as
 recorded by the designated authority in the final findings, to
 point out that it is also the case of those respondents that no
 effective opportunity of hearing was given. It was urged that
 six days' time granted by the designated authority was
 absolutely inadequate. Reference was made to article 6.9 of
 the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General
 Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (hereinafter referred to as
 the "Anti-Dumping Agreement"), which inter alia provides that
 such disclosure should take place in sufficient time for the
 parties to defend their interests, to point out that sufficient
 time is in-built in rule 16 of the rules read with article 6.9 of
 the Anti-Dumping Agreement. It was submitted that therefore,
 the time was insufficient in case of both the parties. As regards
 what can be said to be a reasonable time, the learned counsel
 submitted that computation of the non-injurious price as well
 as certain other essential facts were not provided to the
 petitioners and that it is the case of the designated authority
 that if such computation were asked for, the same would have
 been furnished. It was submitted that if this be the position it is
 clear that the six days' time for responding to the disclosure
 statement is highly inadequate. Reference was made to the
 Dumping and Subsidy Manual, Australia on which reliance was
 placed on behalf of the fourth respondent, to submit that the
 same provides for twenty days' time after publication of the Page 13 of 118 HC-NIC Page 13 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Statement of Essential Facts (SEF) to comment on the SEF,
 which clearly shows that the time granted by the designated
 authority can in no manner be said to be adequate. It was
 further pointed out that while the investigation was initiated on
 21.07.2015, and in the ordinary course it was required to be
 concluded within one year, one fails to comprehend as to why
 the designated authority waited till the fag end of the
 extended time to issue the disclosure statement, thereby
 engineering an urgency whereby no further time could be
 granted to the parties to defend their interests. 14.3 On the merits of the disclosure statement, reference
 was made to rule 16 of the rules, to point out that the same
 requires the designated authority to inform all interested
 parties of the essential facts under consideration which form
 the basis for its decision. It was submitted that thus, the
 designated is required to give the facts on the basis of which
 the decision as to whether or not definitive measures are
 required to be taken and not his inferences and conclusions
 based on such facts. According to the learned counsel, what
 was required to be disclosed were the essential facts and the
 designated authority's tentative conclusions on those facts;
 however, computation of various parameters from essential
 facts was not warranted and amounts to pre-determination. 14.4 It was submitted that the designated authority has also
 failed to disclose all essential facts in the disclosure statement
 which is in violation of the principles of natural justice. In
 support of such submission, the learned counsel placed
 reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
 Union of India and another v. Meghmani Organics Page 14 of 118 HC-NIC Page 14 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Limited and others, 2016) 10 SCC 28. 14.5 It was contended that non-disclosure of export price,
 normal value and dumping margin to the extent such
 information is not protected under rule 7 of the rules, is clearly
 in breach of the principles of natural justice. Moreover, no
 information had been furnished by the foreign exporters, in
 respect of which confidentiality could have been claimed by
 them. The only confidential information available before the
 authority was furnished by the domestic industry and
 therefore, there is no justification for non-disclosure of the
 figures or the methodology adopted by the authority for
 determination of export price, normal value and dumping
 margin to the domestic industry. According to the learned
 counsel, the following information has wrongly not been
 disclosed: 14.5 The learned counsel further submitted that detailed
 costing of NIP (Non-Injurious Price) for the POI (Period of Page 16 of 118 HC-NIC Page 16 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Investigation) and Post POI has not been disclosed. In fact,
 insofar as the Post POI NIP is concerned, even the figure has
 not been disclosed. According to the learned counsel, since the
 NIP is based on information furnished by the petitioner, there
 can be no confidentiality qua the petitioner. In support of such
 submission, reliance was placed upon the decision in the case
 of Reliance Industries v. Designated Authority , (2006) 10
 SCC 368 and more particularly, paragraph 43 thereof. The
 attention of the court was invited to the fact that it is the
 practice of the designated authority to disclose the NIP and to
 provide detailed costing information to the domestic industry
 in the disclosure statement. The attention of the court was
 invited to the findings recorded by the designated authority in
 the disclosure statement to submit that the authority has
 prejudged the issues and the petitioners had no effective
 opportunity to displace the conclusions arrived at in the
 disclosure statement. 14.6 The next submission advanced by the learned counsel
 for the petitioners was that the review investigation is not in
 consonance with the principles enunciated by the Supreme
 Court in the case of Rishiroop Polymers (P) Ltd. v.
 Designated Authority and Additional Secretary , (2006) 4
 SCC 303, wherein it has been held that the mid-term review is
 limited to the information received with respect to the change
 in the various parameters, and the entire purpose of the
 review inquiry is not to see whether there is a need for
 imposition of anti-dumping duty but to see whether in the
 absence of such continuance, dumping would increase or recur
 and the domestic industry suffers. It was submitted that the
 designated authority has failed to confine the investigation to Page 17 of 118 HC-NIC Page 17 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 the grounds for seeking review in the initiation notification and
 has also not applied correct tests for ascertaining the
 likelihood. It was contended that the designated authority has
 put the onus on the petitioners to show that there is need for
 continuation of duty, whereas it was for the applicant
 importers to demonstrate that in the absence of duty, there
 would be no dumping or injury. According to the learned
 counsel, for the duty to be withdrawn before the expiry of the
 five-year period, all the factors must indicate that duty is no
 longer warranted, which implies an 'elimination process'.
 However, the authority has examined whether there is a need
 for continuation and not a need for withdrawal of the duty. It
 was submitted that the examination of the likelihood of injury
 to the domestic industry on the revocation of duty is based on
 the threat parameters, such as, production capacity of the
 foreign exporters, their inventories, etc. and that this
 information is in the exclusive knowledge of the foreign
 producers. As the exporters have not cooperated in the
 investigations and provided relevant information, an adverse
 inference ought to have been drawn in terms of rule 6(8) of the
 rules and the principles enunciated in the decision of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Designated Authority v.
 Haldor Topsoe A/S. , 2000 (120) ELT 11 (SC). It was submitted
 that instead of drawing an adverse inference, the designated
 authority has shifted the burden on the domestic industry to
 establish the need for continuation of duty, even though there
 is a presumption of continuation of the state of affairs, as they
 existed at the time of the original imposition. 14.7 The learned counsel further submitted that the
 designated authority has failed to disclose the details of Page 18 of 118 HC-NIC Page 18 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Dumping Margin calculations to the petitioners in para-54 of
 the final findings. The dumping margin is the difference
 between the export price and the normal price. In the facts of
 this case, the normal price has been determined based on the
 information furnished by the petitioners, which ought to have
 been disclosed to the petitioners. Even in respect of export
 price, for the countries where no confidentiality has been
 claimed by any party, the export price ought to have been
 made available to the petitioner. The failure to provide the
 relevant details to the petitioner, especially as it is worked out
 on the information provided by the petitioner himself, the
 findings are in gross violation of the principles of natural
 justice and renders the petitioners unable to effectively deal
 with the conclusions drawn by the designated authority. 14.8 Referring to the final findings recorded by the
 designated authority, it was submitted that in the final findings
 reliance has been placed on the data obtained from the World
 Trade Atlas (WTA), whereas there is no mention of this data in
 the disclosure statement. It was submitted that neither the
 data nor the non-confidential summary of such data, has been
 given in the disclosure statement and hence, the petitioners
 had had no opportunity to offer their comments on the WTA
 data, which is clearly in breach of the principles of natural
 justice. It was contended that the designated authority has not
 examined the relevant parameters relating to likelihood of
 injury and that the disclosure statement refers to para (vii) of
 Annexure-II to the rules as the basis for the likelihood test.
 Referring to the findings recorded in the disclosure statement,
 it was pointed out that criteria (i) and (iii) postulated in para (vii) are admittedly met with in the facts of the present case, Page 19 of 118 HC-NIC Page 19 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 which is sufficient to continue the duty, whereas there is no
 analysis as regards criteria (ii) and (iv) in the final findings. It
 was contended that even if one of the parameters indicates
 likelihood of injury, the duty is to be continued and in fact, it is
 for the applicant to establish, that there is no likelihood of
 injury in respect of all the parameters, which it has failed to do
 so. 14.9 It was further pointed out that the designated authority
 has heavily relied upon the injury margin as a parameter,
 whereas the injury margin is not a relevant parameter under section 9A(5) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter
 referred to as the "Act"). It was pointed out that Annexure-II to
 the rules lists the relevant parameters for determination of
 injury, however, non-injurious price (NIP) does not figure in this
 list. It was submitted that Annexure-III to the rules clearly
 states that NIP is determined only for the purpose of
 quantification of duty, and is not relevant for the determination
 regarding existence of injury provided for in Annexure II, and,
 therefore, the designated authority has wrongly considered NIP
 as the basis for the likelihood analysis. 14.10 It was next contended that the designated authority
 has failed to notice or render its findings upon many of the
 submissions made by the domestic industry. It was submitted
 that the material to show that the foreign exporters have
 surplus capacities, which is an indicator of likelihood of
 dumping and injury was furnished, however, the same was not
 considered. Detailed calculations of the volume of exports
 made from the subject countries to third countries, which
 would shift to India, in the event of revocation of duties were Page 20 of 118 HC-NIC Page 20 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 furnished. The volume of such exports being more than the
 demand in the domestic Indian market, was an indicator of
 likelihood of injury in the event of revocation, which has also
 not been considered. It was submitted that comparison of the
 import prices with the selling price or cost of domestic industry
 should be made at the customer end, that is, after inclusion of
 freight to the customer's premises, as the delivered price is
 the basis for customer decision, to buy or imported or
 indigenous product for determination of price undercutting,
 underselling and likelihood analysis, however, the same have
 not been duly considered by the designated authority. It was,
 accordingly, urged that both, the impugned disclosure
 statement as well as the final findings rendered pursuant
 thereto, suffer from the breach of principles of natural justice
 warranting interference by this court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India. 15. Mr. S. N. Soparkar, Senior Advocate, learned counsel with
 Ms. Reena Khair, learned advocate for the petitioners has
 adopted the submissions advanced by Mr. Mihir Joshi. The
 learned counsel further invited the attention of the court to the
 communication dated 19th September, 2016 of GHCL Limited
 whereby it had sought two weeks' additional time to submit its
 comments, to submit that initially a joint reply was filed by the
 domestic industries thereafter one industry had addressed the
 above letter. Reference was made to the methodology for
 determination of non-injurious price, Annexure IV to the
 disclosure statement to point out that the same does not
 contain any figures. It was submitted that the designated
 authority has not taken the figures given by the domestic
 industry at face value and has made adjustments. The Page 21 of 118 HC-NIC Page 21 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 designated authority has adopted figures according to what it
 perceived to be correct and has worked out the non-injurious
 price, under the circumstances, the breakup of the NIP
 calculation ought to have been given. Reference was made to
 the decision of the Supreme Court in Reliance Industries
 Ltd. V. Designated Authority , 2006 (202) ELT 23 (SC), for
 the proposition that the purpose of section 9A of the Act is to
 maintain a level-playing field and prevent dumping, while
 allowing healthy competition. The concept of anti-dumping is
 founded on the basis that a foreign manufacturer sells below
 the normal value in order to destabilize domestic
 manufacturers. Dumping in the short term, may give some
 transitory benefits to the local customers on account of lower
 priced goods, but in the long run destroys the local industries
 and may have a drastic effect on prices in the long run.
 Reference was also made to paragraph 40 of the decision
 wherein the court has noted that the DA claimed
 confidentiality from the appellant about its finding on the data
 supplied by the appellant itself, and was of the opinion that
 there was nothing confidential in the matter, and hence the
 reasons for not accepting the appellant's version should have
 been stated in the order of the DA. The attention of the court
 was also invited to paragraph 44 of the decision, wherein the
 court has expressed the opinion that excessive and
 unwarranted claim of confidentiality defeats the right of
 appeal. In the absence of knowledge of the consequences,
 grounds, reasoning and methodology by which the DA arrived
 at is decision and made its recommendation, the parties to the
 proceedings cannot effectively exercise their right to appeal
 either before the Tribunal or that Court. It was submitted that
 in the facts of the present case, apart from the fact that the Page 22 of 118 HC-NIC Page 22 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 methodology of computing the NIP has not been provided
 along with the disclosure statement, even though GHCL had
 request the designated authority to furnish the same, it was
 not given. It was further submitted that it is also not the case
 of the designated authority in the affidavit that had the parties
 asked for it, it would have been given. It was submitted that
 therefore, there is a clear breach of the principles of natural
 justice. Reference was made to the decision of Supreme Court
 in Union of India v. M/s Meghmani Organics Ltd. & Ors.,
 (2016) 10 SCC 28, wherein the court recorded its agreement
 with its earlier decision in Reliance Industries (supra) that rule
 7 does not postulate that the DA can claim confidentiality and
 that too not in respect of any information supplied by a party
 but in respect of its reasons or findings derived from
 information supplied by the same very party. It was contended
 that any adjustment of the NIP has to be shared with the them.
 It was argued that non supply of computation of NIP is clearly
 in breach of the principles of natural justice as there was an
 obligation on the designated authority to share the information
 with the petitioners. 16. Vehemently opposing the petitions, Mr. S. Sitharaman,
 learned counsel with Mr. Anand Nainavati, learned advocate for
 the fourth respondent - Detergent Manufacturers Association
 of India, submitted that the scope of disclosure statement
 issued under rule 16 of the rules corresponds to article 6.9 of
 the WTO Anti-Dumping Agreement (ADA). It was pointed out
 that the first sentence of article 6.9 of the ADA states that: underlying the findings and conclusions relating to these
 elements form the basis of the decision to apply definitive
 measures and should be disclosed. It was pointed out that the
 above decision of the Panel was considered by the Appellate
 Body of the WTO DSB and it was confirmed. The learned
 advocate also placed reliance upon the decision of the
 Appellate Body (as reproduced in WT/DS/454/AB/R and
 WT/DS/460/AB/R), wherein as to the scope of information that
 must be disclosed, the Appellate Body has explained that Article 6.9 " covers 'facts under consideration', that is, those
 facts on the record that may be taken into account by an
 authority in reaching a decision as to whether or not to apply
 definitive anti-dumping duties". As to what are "essential
 facts", it has been stated that such facts are first, those that
 "form the basis for the decision whether to apply definitive
 measures" and, second, those that ensure the ability of
 interested parties to defend their interests. Thus, the
 "essential facts" are those facts that are significant in the
 process of reaching a decision as to whether or not to apply
 definitive measures. Such acts are those that are salient for a
 decision to apply definitive measures, as well as those that are
 salient for a contrary outcome. Reference was also made to Page 24 of 118 HC-NIC Page 24 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Australia's Dumping and Subsidy Manual and more
 particularly, clause 26.3 thereof, which inter alia provides that
 a statement of "essential facts" does contain proposed
 recommendations in relation to matters such as export price,
 normal value and adjustments effecting the normal value
 however, the SFE is about reporting the facts, analysis and
 findings rather than detailing proposed recommendations in
 relation to issues such as causation and the imposition (or
 otherwise) of measures. 16.1 It was submitted that in the light of the provisions of
 rule 16 of the rules read with article 6.9 of the ADA, an
 investigating authority is required by law to disclose "essential
 facts", that is, findings and conclusions relating to dumping,
 injury, and causal link. It was contended that in the two
 investigations impugned in these writ petitions, the designated
 authority has complied with the law by disclosing its
 conclusions on all pertinent issues in various parts of the
 disclosure statement. Therefore, the disclosure of certain
 conclusions in the disclosure statement cannot be faulted. 16.2 Dealing with the contention raised on behalf of the
 petitioners that effective opportunity to displace the
 conclusions arrived at in the disclosure statement was not
 granted on the grounds that the designated authority had pre-
 judged the issue; sufficient time was not granted for filing
 comments; no extension of time for filing comments and no
 hearing was granted after disclosure; it was submitted that
 insofar as pre-judging the issue is concerned, all the
 disclosures made in the said statement should be read and
 understood in the light of paragraph-3 of the letter forwarding Page 25 of 118 HC-NIC Page 25 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 the disclosure, wherein it has been stated that,
 "Notwithstanding the facts given in this Disclosure Statement
 (including facts given on a confidential basis), the Designated
 Authority would consider all replies given, on merits, in order
 to arrive at a final determination." It was submitted that the
 designated authority has reiterated the same once again at
 the end of the disclosure statement wherein it has been stated
 that the authority would conclude on the matter after receiving
 the comments of the interested parties on this disclosure
 statement. It was submitted that the above observations in the
 disclosure statement clearly reveal that the conclusions
 recorded in the disclosure statement are tentative and not
 conclusive, as sought to be contended on behalf of the
 petitioners. 16.3 As regards the contention that insufficient time was not
 granted for filing the comments, it was submitted that the
 authority had granted six days' time to file comments on the
 disclosure. It was submitted that the conclusions are coming
 towards the close of the investigation and are based on the
 facts presented or arguments raised by every interested party.
 There is no statutory provision that prescribes the length of
 time to be given to interested parties to offer their comments. Article 6.9 of the ADA only states that such disclosure should
 take place in sufficient time for the parties to defend their
 interests. It was submitted that article 6.9 uses the word
 'should' which is directory in nature and not the word 'shall'
 which is mandatory. It was submitted that the time to be
 granted is at the discretion of the authority taking into account
 the statutory deadline for completing the investigation and
 that unless the period of 6 days is shown to be unreasonable Page 26 of 118 HC-NIC Page 26 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 or highly insufficient, it cannot be faulted with. 16.4 Insofar as the request for grant of extension of time to
 file comments on the disclosure is concerned, it was submitted
 that there is no legal provision that mandates the authority to
 grant extension of time for filing comments on disclosure. It
 was submitted that under rule 17(1) of the rules, the
 investigation is to be concluded within one year from the date
 of initiation. The first proviso to rule 17 of the rules states that
 the Central Government may in its discretion, in special
 circumstances, extend further the aforesaid period of one year
 by six months. Thus, the extension is allowed under special
 circumstances, that too, by Central Government to the
 authority and that the authority cannot presume that the
 Central Government would grant extension to complete the
 investigation and keep acceding to requests for grant of
 extension of time to interested parties for filing comments on
 disclosure. It was submitted that in the absence of any
 statutory provision, it should be left to the discretion of the
 authority and the fact that the authority did not grant
 extension cannot not be a ground for faulting the entire
 process. It was submitted that in any case, as far as the fourth
 respondent is aware, no differential time limit was set for
 different interested parties and all interested parties were
 treated alike, that is, they were granted the same length of
 time for filing comments. 16.5 The learned advocate further drew the attention of the
 court to the fact that in the original investigation, the
 disclosure statement was issued on 10th February, 2012,
 whereas the final findings were issued on 17th February, 2012, Page 27 of 118 HC-NIC Page 27 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 to submit that the time limit for comments on disclosure given
 during the original investigation must have been less than the
 time given in the current mid-term review. 16.6 As regards the contention that insufficient and
 inadequate time had been granted for the purpose of
 defending the interests of the petitioners, reference was made
 to rule 6(7) of the rules, which corresponds to article 6.4 of the
 ADA, to submit that the same provides that the authorities
 shall, whenever practicable, provide timely opportunities for all
 interested parties to see all information that is relevant to the
 presentation of their cases, that is not confidential as defined
 in paragraph 5, and that is used by the authorities in an anti-
 dumping investigation and to prepare presentations on the
 basis of this information. It was submitted that the words
 'whenever practicable' are noteworthy. It implies that there
 may be constraints in providing opportunities as and when
 sought. It was submitted that there is no allegation that the
 authority did not grant any opportunity during the course of
 the investigation and that when the disclosure statement is
 issued at the fag end of the investigation after following the
 procedure prescribed, there is no reason to provide another
 opportunity of hearing. It was submitted that the authority has
 in fact considered the comments on the disclosure statement
 filed by the interested parties including the ones filed by the
 petitioners herein and that in view thereof, the contention that
 there was no effective opportunity to displace the conclusions
 does not hold any merit and is liable to be rejected. 16.7 As regards the contention about non-consideration of
 certain factors in the disclosure statement or the final findings, Page 28 of 118 HC-NIC Page 28 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 the learned advocate submitted that it has been alleged that
 the factors relating to 'threat of material injury' were not
 considered by the authority. It was submitted that in terms of
 rule 23(1A), the designated authority is required to
 recommend withdrawal of duties where it comes to a
 conclusion that the injury to the domestic industry is not likely
 to continue or recur if the said duty is removed or varied and is
 therefore, no longer warranted. It was submitted that as
 regards the question as to how to determine whether the
 injury is not likely to continue or recur, the petitioners have
 alleged that the authority shall consider the factors mentioned
 in paragraph (vii) of Annexure II to the rules and have also
 relied upon the statement of the authority in the disclosure
 statement that the authority examined the likelihood of
 continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury considering
 the parameters relating to the threat of material injury in
 terms of Annexure II (vii) of the rules. 16.8 It was further submitted that section 9B(1)(b)(ii) of the
 Customs Tariff Act 1975 requires a determination that import
 of such article into India causes or threatens material injury to
 any established industry in India or materially retards the
 establishment of any industry in India. These are commonly
 referred to as material injury, threat of material injury and
 material retardation. In the original investigation the
 designated authority determined that the domestic industry
 had suffered material injury. According to the learned counsel,
 when an industry has suffered material injury and anti-
 dumping duties have been imposed to remedy such material
 injury, while reviewing such measures, the designated
 authority is required to consider whether the said material Page 29 of 118 HC-NIC Page 29 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 injury is likely to continue or recur. It was contended that the
 question of continuation will arise when the domestic industry
 is still suffering material injury, however, when the industry is
 not suffering material injury currently, one must examine
 whether the injury is likely to recur, if the duties are
 withdrawn. 16.9 It was submitted that in this case, as the domestic
 industry was not suffering any material injury, it was
 incumbent upon the designated authority to consider whether
 it is likely to recur. It was submitted that there is no guidance
 in the law either in the anti-dumping agreement or in the
 Indian provisions about the way a likelihood of recurrence of
 injury is to be conducted and that the law has left it to the
 wisdom of the investigating authority. According to the learned
 counsel, the relevant question is whether an analysis of the
 likelihood of recurrence of injury is the same as or somewhat
 similar to an analysis of threat of injury. It may not be
 appropriate to equate likelihood of recurrence of injury to that
 of threat of material injury. A likelihood of recurrence
 determination is wider in its scope and ambit than a
 determination of threat of injury and that even if all the four
 factors mentioned in the relevant rules are absent, likelihood
 of recurrence of injury may be present. One or two of the
 factors of threat of injury may also indicate a strong likelihood
 of recurrence. It was urged that therefore, the factors
 mentioned for a threat of material injury determination are not
 mandatory for a likelihood of recurrence of injury analysis. 16.10 It was argued that the designated authority in its
 wisdom has considered some of the factors mentioned for a Page 30 of 118 HC-NIC Page 30 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 threat of material injury analysis and that non-consideration of
 all the factors does not vitiate the analysis. It was contended
 that the word 'injury' would cover all the three situations of
 injury and a reference was made to footnote 9 to the title of
 Article 3-Determination of injury, in the AD, which reads as
 under: shall, unless otherwise specified, be taken to mean
 material injury to a domestic industry, threat of material
 injury to a domestic industry or material retardation of
 the establishment of such an industry and shall be
 interpreted in accordance with the provisions of this
 Article." 16.11 It was submitted that the words 'unless otherwise
 specified' are noteworthy. This implies that the word 'injury'
 may not cover all the three situations of injury in all cases.
 When there is a threat of injury, duties may be imposed. When
 there is only a likelihood of threat of injury, whether duties
 could be imposed is another issue that would arise. The case
 of a likelihood of a threat of injury would go against the first
 sentence of Article 3.7 which states that a determination of a
 threat of material injury shall be based on facts and not
 merely on allegation, conjecture, or remote possibility. Further,
 the third sentence of Article 3.7 of ADA states: ".... In making a
 determination regarding the existence of a threat of material
 injury, the authorities should consider, inter alia, such factors
 as...." This sentence uses the word 'should' and not 'shall'.
 Thus, the factors mentioned in respect of threat of material
 injury are not mandatory. It was urged that therefore, the
 question of the authority failing to consider some of the factors
 mentioned would not amount to a violation of the principles of Page 31 of 118 HC-NIC Page 31 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 natural justice that would vitiate the final findings, much less,
 the disclosure statement. 16.12 It was further submitted that the designated
 authority has, in its wisdom, considered a number of other
 factors such as volume of exports post POI, market share of
 subject countries in the Indian market, price attractiveness of
 Indian market, export orientation of foreign producers, level of
 current and past dumping margin, etc., in the likelihood
 analysis. According to the learned counsel, if at all, such issue
 may be agitated in an appeal before the appellate authority
 and not before the High Court while invoking its writ
 jurisdiction. 16.13 On the question of use of Non-Injurious Price in the
 injury analysis, it was submitted that the petitioners have
 alleged that the authority has used the Non-Injurious Price
 (NIP) determined for the domestic industry in the injury
 analysis and that has vitiated the analysis and that NIP is an
 irrelevant factor in the injury analysis. According to the learned
 counsel, nothing could be farther from the truth. It was
 submitted that in this regard, it is necessary to examine the
 scope and ambit of the injury analysis as prescribed under the
 rules. Reference was made to Annexure II to the rules which
 prescribe the principles for determination of injury. It was
 submitted that determination of injury involves examination of
 three distinct aspects, viz., (1) volume of dumped imports; (2)
 effect of dumped imports on prices in the domestic market for
 the like article; and (3) consequent impact of these imports on
 the domestic producers of such products. It was submitted that
 in respect of the first aspect, the designated authority must Page 32 of 118 HC-NIC Page 32 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 consider whether there has been a significant increase in
 dumped imports either in absolute terms or relative to
 production or consumption in India. It was submitted that the
 second aspect has two sub-aspects, namely, (1) whether there
 is a significant price undercutting; or (2) whether the effect of
 such imports is otherwise to depress prices to a significant
 degree (referred to "price depression") or prevent price
 increase which otherwise would have occurred (referred to as
 "price suppression"), to a significant degree and that the third
 aspect involves evaluation of all relevant economic parameters
 and indices having a bearing on the state of the industry and
 lists out fifteen parameters which are considered mandatory
 injury parameters. 16.14 Referring to the impugned disclosure statement, it
 was submitted that while examining whether there is a
 significant increase in the volume of dumped imports, NIP has
 not been used; while examining price undercutting, NIP has
 not been used and that the designated authority has only
 compared the landed value of imports to the Net Sales
 Realisation(NSR) which is quite different from NIP. NSR is the
 actual price realised by the domestic industry during period in
 question. It was pointed out that while examining 'Price
 depression' only the trend of prices over the injury period is
 seen and that in this case, selling price has moved up and up
 and up, from 100 to 108 to 113 to 123 to 125 over the injury
 period and that NIP has not been used in this analysis. It was
 further pointed out that for price suppression, the trend of cost
 of sales and selling price have been used and that in this case,
 while cost of sales has increased from 100 to 101 to 110 to
 106 and then to 102, selling prices kept on increasing as Page 33 of 118 HC-NIC Page 33 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 stated earlier. Thus, NIP has not been used for this analysis
 also. 16.15 The learned counsel further submitted that while
 examining the third aspect, that is, mandatory injury
 parameters, the designated authority has only examined the
 relevant parameters such as production, capacity, sales,
 capacity utilisation, inventories, etc., and that NIP has not
 been used at all. It was submitted that in fact, the factor
 relating to profits requires special attention in this regard. It
 was pointed out that the designated authority examines the
 actual profit earned by the domestic industry. In indexed
 terms, profit per MT has increased from Rs.100 in 2011-12 to
 Rs.176 in 2012-13, it has declined marginally to Rs.146 in
 2013-14 and has then increased to Rs.293 during POI and has
 further increased to Rs.356 during post POI. This increase
 relates to actual profits and not notional profits and there is no
 use of NIP for this analysis also. Even the return on investment
 examined here is based on actuals and not based on NIP. It
 was, accordingly, argued that the contention that an irrelevant
 factor named NIP has been used in the injury analysis is
 without any factual basis and is liable to be rejected. 16.16 As regards where exactly NIP has been used and
 how, it was submitted that for this purpose it is necessary to
 look as to what use the NIP has been put to. It was submitted
 that NIP has been used to determine what is known as 'injury
 margin'. This may also be called 'price underselling'.
 Mathematically both are the same. It was pointed out that the
 difference between the NIP and the landed value of imports
 and the difference is also expressed as a percentage of landed Page 34 of 118 HC-NIC Page 34 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 value. Price underselling analysis is shown next to price
 undercutting analysis and the same gets repeated once again
 under the heading magnitude of injury and injury margin. It
 was further submitted that it is also important to note the
 context in which Injury margin is determined. It was submitted
 that India follows what is known as 'lesser duty rule'.
 Reference was made Article 9.1 of the ADA, which reads thus: dumping duty in cases where all requirements for the
 imposition have been fulfilled, and the decision whether
 the amount of the anti-dumping duty to be imposed
 shall be the full margin of dumping or less, are decisions
 to be made by the authorities of the importing Member.
 It is desirable that the imposition be permissive in the
 territory of all Members, and that the duty be less than
 the margin if such lesser duty would be adequate to
 remove the injury to the domestic industry. It was submitted that the concept of 'lesser duty rule'
 (viz., the duty shall be equal to dumping margin or injury
 margin, whichever is less) has been incorporated in Indian law
 vide rule 4 (1)(d)(i) and rule 17(1)(b) of the rules, both of which
 refer to the amount of duty which, if levied, would remove the
 injury to the domestic industry. This concept has been
 introduced in India on the rationale that users of the imported
 products as well as producers of the like article in India
 constitute two eyes of the Indian economy; and that to protect
 one eye, thou shall not hit another. It was submitted that to
 determine the amount of duty that would aim to protect the
 interests of both the parties, the injury margin is determined
 and the duty equal to the dumping margin or the injury
 margin, whichever is less, is fixed. It was submitted that it is Page 35 of 118 HC-NIC Page 35 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 necessary to look at the distinction between price undercutting
 and price underselling. As price undercutting indicates the
 difference between the Net Sales Realisation of the domestic
 industry and the landed value of imports, it indicates the
 extent to which import prices are affecting the domestic
 industry. On the other hand, price underselling is the
 parameter to see whether the imports are coming even below
 the NIP. 16.17 Reverting to the facts of the present case it was
 submitted that price undercutting was 5%-10 % during the POI
 and 0%-5% during the Post POI. During the POI, landed values
 of imports coming into India were in the range of USD 253.18
 PMT to USD 308.52 PMT. At this landed value, they were below
 the Net Sales realisation of the domestic industry in the range
 of 5%-10%. Weighted average landed value of imports from all
 the countries was Rs.16820 PMT (or USD 272.65 PMT). Taking
 the midpoint of the range as the price undercutting, that is,
 7.5%, actual net sales realisation was USD 293.10 PMT. It was
 submitted that the price underselling was negative even at the
 lowest landed value of USD 253.18 implying that the non-
 injurious price was well below USD 253.18. It was submitted
 that it is not known how much lower the NIP was, however,
 assuming it to be USD 250, which is marginally less than the
 available numbers, the price realised by the domestic industry
 was more than USD 43 per MT. It was urged that the
 designated authority took this into account and concluded that
 there is a need to withdraw the duty. It was contended that the
 petitioners have been trying to challenge this determination on
 certain non-existing lacunae in the disclosure statement and/or
 the final findings and that there being no merit in the Page 36 of 118 HC-NIC Page 36 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 submissions of the petitioners the writ petition deserves to be
 dismissed. 16.18 It was next submitted that when the injury margin
 is negative, the amount of duty to be imposed is
 indeterminable. The existing duty cannot be continued as it
 would be in excess of the amounts permitted under rule 4(d)
 and rule 17(1)(b) of the rules. It was submitted that in several
 cases, the existing duties have been withdrawn where injury
 margin was negative and where duty was withdrawn by the
 authority but injury margin was positive, the Tribunal has
 restored the duty. In support of such submission, the learned
 counsel placed reliance upon the following decisions of the
 Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (Delhi): 16.19 As regards the conclusions recorded by the
 designated authority on material injury, the learned counsel
 submitted that the petitioners contend that the conclusions on
 material injury show non-application of mind as the authority
 has stated that both price undercutting and price underselling
 effects are negative. It was submitted that the conclusion does
 not cover only that issue and that in this regard it is important
 to look at the conclusion on material injury, conclusion on
 other known factors and causal link, which are relevant in this
 regard. It was submitted that the conclusion on material injury Page 37 of 118 HC-NIC Page 37 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 notes that the performance of the domestic industry has
 improved remarkably in terms of production, sales volume,
 profit, cash profit, return on capital employed and inventory; it
 records that market share has declined during POI as
 compared to base year; it goes on to add that during the post
 POI, the economic parameters have shown continued
 improvement including increased trend in the market share; it
 does state that net sales realisation is more than the landed
 price from the subject countries during the POI and the post
 POI; and that it is partially correct in the sense that the NSR
 was more than the landed price of imports from Pakistan only
 during POI and NSR was more than the landed price of imports
 from both Pakistan and EU during post POI and not from all the
 subject countries. It was submitted that apart from this one
 error, the petitioners have not pointed out any other errors. 16.20 The learned counsel for the fourth respondent
 further submitted that while evaluating the impact of this error
 which may be a ministerial error, conclusions on other factors
 shall also have to be kept in mind. Referring to the disclosure
 statement it was pointed out that the designated authority has
 recorded as follows: According to the learned counsel, the error committed by
 the designated authority may be treated as a ministerial error
 which does not vitiate the overall conclusion nor does it
 amount to non-application of mind and that for this one error,
 it cannot be said that the entire disclosure statement or the
 final finding stands vitiated. 16.21 Another submission advance by the learned counsel
 for the fourth respondent was that there is no argument or
 ground raised in the writ petition about the above issues and
 that the same appears to be an afterthought. It was contended
 that at this late stage of the proceedings when pleadings are
 complete, such grounds should not be allowed to be raised. 16.22 Dealing with the submissions advanced on behalf of
 the petitioners that non-inclusion of freight and non-inclusion
 of investments being made in an ongoing expansion project in
 calculating capital employed amounts to a violation of the
 principles of natural justice, it was submitted that the
 designated authority has dealt with those claims of the
 domestic industry and if the petitioners are aggrieved, they
 may file an appeal before the Tribunal and get it adjudicated.
 In any case, injury margin is calculated by comparing the NIP
 at ex-factory level and landed value at ex-port level. This is a
 proper comparison as per Annexure III. It was argued that if
 the expansion project is not yet over and the new assets have
 not yet been put into operation for the production of the
 product concerned, one cannot say that the capital employed Page 39 of 118 HC-NIC Page 39 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 in such expansion project is the capital employed for the
 product concerned and, therefore, there is no merit in this
 argument and for this reason one cannot say that the
 disclosure statement is vitiated. It was contended that this is
 nothing but an attempt on the part of the petitioners to
 somehow inflate the NIP and to arrive at a low or nil injury
 margin to suit their purposes. 16.23 Dealing with the contention of the petitioners that
 the action of the designated authority in initiating the mid-
 term review is without jurisdiction and illegal and that the
 initiation notice does not record any finding as to the existence
 of facts warranting such review, the learned counsel submitted
 that this is factually incorrect. It was submitted that the
 grounds for review submitted by the applicant, that is, the All
 India Glass Manufacturers' Federation and the decision of the
 authority on the said grounds are given in the initiation notice
 itself. The attention of the court was invited to paragraphs 2, 3,
 10 and 11 of the initiation notice to submit that in view
 thereof, there is no merit in the contentions raised by the
 petitioners. 16.24 As regards the contention of the petitioners that the
 WTA data used by the designated authority in the final findings
 had not been disclosed to them, the learned counsel submitted
 that when certain issues are raised by an interested party as a
 part of the comments to the disclosure statement, the
 authority must consider them. It was pointed out that in this
 case, the domestic industry commented that prices for export
 from subject countries to third countries have not been
 considered, to which the designated authority has responded Page 40 of 118 HC-NIC Page 40 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 by collecting the relevant data and giving his evaluation in the
 final findings. It was further submitted that in this case, that
 data also supported the conclusions already made. It was also
 submitted that it is not mandatory to issue a second disclosure
 statement or to make it available to all interested parties at
 that late stage. According to the learned counsel, in this
 regard, a parallel may be drawn to the provisions contained in
 Paragraph 6 of Annex II to the ADA which reads thus: 16.25 It was urged that considering the time-limits of the
 investigation, the analysis of the new facts that have emerged
 after the disclosure stage may be made known in the
 published final findings. According to the learned counsel, this
 is an exceptional situation and not a normal during-course-of -investigation situation, and therefore, non-disclosure of WTA
 data cannot be considered as a violation of the principles of
 governing the investigation contained in rule 6 or of the
 principles of natural justice. 16.26 The learned counsel for the fourth respondents
 further submitted that just before conclusion of the arguments
 by the learned counsel for the petitioner, certain propositions Page 41 of 118 HC-NIC Page 41 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 were presented, which included, inter alia, a list of facts that
 were not disclosed and reliance was also placed on the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Reliance Industries Ltd v.
 DA , 2006 (202) ELT 23 (SC). It was submitted that the list of
 facts alleged to have not been disclosed may be grouped into - (1) Non-disclosure of facts relating to normal value,
 export price and dumping margin of exporters
 (2) Non-disclosure of certain data of the domestic
 industry used in the injury analysis
 (3) Non-disclosure of calculation of NIP for POI;
 (4) Non-disclosure of NIP as such and its calculation for
 post POI; 16.27 Lastly it was submitted that when the petition was
 filed and initially taken up for consideration, the customs
 notification had not been issued. Accordingly, at that point of
 time, there was no alternate remedy available. However, now
 that the determination has been by the Central Government by
 issuing the customs notification withdrawing the duty, a
 statutory alternate remedy is available and therefore, the
 petitioners should be directed to exhaust the alternate remedy
 and that for this reason also, these writ petitions deserve to be
 dismissed. It was also submitted that anti-dumping duty being
 an economic measure, as has been held by this court in the
 case of Alembic Ltd, 2013 (291) ELT 327 (Guj), the petition
 may not be entertained. 17. Mr. Vikram Nankani, Senior Advocate, learned counsel
 with Mr. Hardik Modh, learned advocate for the seventh
 respondent submitted that in a matter of this kind, the scope Page 42 of 118 HC-NIC Page 42 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 of judicial review is very narrow and confined only to the
 decision making process and not to the decision itself. It was
 submitted that the investigation or review in relation to anti-
 dumping levy or withdrawal of anti-dumping involves
 adherence to strict time lines and interference with the same
 frustrates the very object of the statutory provisions.
 Therefore, the scope of judicial review of the disclosure
 statement is very narrow. 17.1 As regards the nature and scope of the disclosure
 statement, it was submitted that the same is in the nature of a
 draft order. According to the learned counsel, the disclosure
 statement under rule 16 of the rules, at best, is an
 intermediary stage in the final decision and cannot be
 subjected to judicial review at all. It was submitted that section
 9A(5) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 is the charging section
 and section 9C of the Act provides that an appeal against the
 order of determination or review thereof regarding the
 existence, degree and effect of any subsidy or dumping in
 relation to import of any article shall lie to the Customs, Excise
 and Service Tax Tribunal constituted under section 129 of the
 Customs Act, 1962. It was submitted that therefore, the
 remedy against a notification levying or withdrawing anti-
 dumping duty is by way of an appeal under section 9C of the
 Act and that no remedy is provided at the intermediary stage.
 Reference was made to rule 17 of the rules, which provides for
 final findings, to submit that the designated authority is
 required to render the final findings within a period of one year
 from the date of initiation of investigation and that under the
 proviso thereto, it is permissible for the Central Government in
 its discretion to further extend such period of one year by six Page 43 of 118 HC-NIC Page 43 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 months and, therefore, the total period for completion of the
 investigation, issuance of disclosure statement and final
 findings is eighteen months. It was submitted that rule 23 of
 the rules has its own time-frame, viz., twelve months from the
 date of initiation of review. It was submitted that where the
 remedy of appeal is only against a final notification and strict
 time lines are laid down for the interim proceedings, judicial
 review would interfere with the strict time lines laid down
 under the statutory provisions and that in any case, the scope
 of the judicial review should be confined only to the decision-
 making process. 17.2 It was submitted that insofar as the decision-making
 process is concerned, it has to be found in law and for that,
 recourse has to be made to the scheme of the Act and the
 rules. It was submitted that the court would see that no
 prejudice is caused to the party by the authority in following
 due process; however, insofar as the sufficiency and adequacy
 of the findings recorded by the authority is concerned, the
 same would come at the final stage. It was submitted that by
 virtue of a disclosure statement under rule 16 of the rules, only
 information of the essential facts is required to be given to the
 parties and that no lis is decided and that the designated
 authority only discloses the essential facts under consideration
 which formed the basis of its decision. It was urged that the
 disclosure statement is, therefore, only a intermediary stage of
 the decision-making process and hence, at this stage, there
 would be no warrant for exercise of powers of judicial review.
 Reference was made to the decision of the Supreme Court in
 the case of Union of India and another v. Meghmani
 Organics Limited and others , (supra) and more particularly, Page 44 of 118 HC-NIC Page 44 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 paragraph-5 thereof, wherein the court has recorded that the
 appellate authority, namely, CEGAT will always have the power
 to look into the relevant files including the materials treated as
 confidential for deciding the issues raised in appeal. It was
 submitted that therefore, the appellate authority has wide
 powers under section 9C of the Act and that the wider the
 scope of powers of the appellate authority, narrower is scope
 of judicial review. It was emphatically argued that the
 disclosure statement issued under rule 16 of the rules is not
 enforceable and is merely a step in aid of completion of
 investigation, and, therefore, does not give rise to any civil or
 penal consequences so as to warrant invocation of the
 extraordinary jurisdiction of this court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India. It was submitted that rule 16 of the rules. 17.3 Dealing with the contention regarding breach of the
 principles of natural justice, it was submitted that the
 principles of natural justice would be applicable only to the
 extent the law expressly allows, and no more. Reliance was
 placed upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Col . J. N. Sinha and another, (1970) 2
 SCC 458, wherein the court had held thus: 17.4 Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Union of India and others v.
 Sanjay Jethi and another , (2013) 16 SCC 116, for the
 proposition that natural justice cannot be permitted to become
 an unruly horse. Reference was also made to the decision of
 the Supreme Court in the case of Vardhman Industries
 Limited v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh ,
 (2015) 13 SCC 400, wherein it was held that an order which
 does not give rise to any legal rights, cannot be a subject
 matter of challenge under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India. Reference was also made to the decision of the Supreme
 Court in the case of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation
 Limited v. National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
 and others , (2011) 12 SCC 400, wherein the court placed
 reliance upon its earlier decision in the case of W. B. Page 46 of 118 HC-NIC Page 46 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Electricity Regulatory Commission v. CESC Ltd., (2002) 8
 SCC 715, for the proposition that the Commission constituted
 under section 17 of the Electricity Regulatory Commissions
 Act, 1998 is an expert body and the determination of tariff
 which has to be made by the Commission involves a very
 highly technical procedure, requiring working knowledge of
 law, engineering, finance, commerce, economics and
 management. That neither the High Court nor the Supreme
 Court would in reality be appropriate appellate forums in
 dealing with these type of factual and technical matters. It was
 submitted that therefore, the rules of natural justice have their
 own limitations. 17.5 As regards the contention raised on behalf of the
 petitioners that detailed costing of NIP for the period of
 investigation and post POI had not been disclosed, reference
 was made to Annexure-IV to the disclosure statement, to
 submit that the methodology for determination of the non-
 injurious price had been given by the designated authority. 17.6 The learned counsel further drew the attention of the
 court to the final findings recorded by the designated
 authority, to point out that the post disclosure comments
 submitted by the domestic industry had been duly considered
 while recording the final findings. It was submitted that the
 petitioners have, therefore, not suffered from any handicap on
 account of the fact that only six days' time was granted for
 filing the comments in response to the disclosure statement. 17.7 As regards the contention that in the final findings, the
 designated authority had relied upon WTA data which was not Page 47 of 118 HC-NIC Page 47 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 disclosed earlier, the learned counsel invited the attention of
 the court to the post disclosure comments made by the
 domestic industry, to submit that it was in respect to the
 comments made by the domestic industry that the designated
 authority, in its findings, has considered the data availed from
 the WTA. Referring to the comments of the domestic industry
 as recorded in the final findings that the authority had wrongly
 applied the principles given in Annexure-III and has drastically
 reduced the NIP without disclosing any circumstances, it was
 submitted that the circumstances are duly disclosed in
 Annexure IV to the disclosure statement. It was submitted that
 in any case, all the contentions raised before this court are
 contentions which could be raised before the Tribunal and
 hence, the petitioners ought to be remanded before the
 Tribunal where they may raise all such contentions. 17.8 Mr. Nankani submitted that keeping in mind the nature of
 the information disclosed under rule 16 of the rules, it is
 apparent that it is only a step in the investigation process, and
 hence, judicial review is not warranted at this stage as it
 cannot be said that there is any breach of the principles of
 natural justice, as reasonable and adequate opportunity has
 been granted to the petitioners. It was submitted that in these
 circumstances, the petitioners should not be permitted to take
 recourse to Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 17.9 Insofar as the submission with regard to necessity of
 granting sufficient time for the purpose of giving a response to
 the disclosure statement based on Article 6.9 of the ADA is
 concerned, the learned counsel submitted that the words
 "such disclosure should take place in sufficient time for the Page 48 of 118 HC-NIC Page 48 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:43 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 purpose to defend their interests" as found in Article 6.9 are
 clearly missing in the rules. It was submitted that therefore,
 the words which are not found in the rules cannot be read into
 them and hence, the words "such disclosure should take place
 in sufficient time for the purpose to defend their interests" 18 Mr. Pramod Kumar Rai, learned advocate with Mr. Vishal
 Sevak, learned advocate for the third respondent, submitted
 that the disclosure statement dated 10.08.2012 issued through
 the original investigation based on which the duty was
 imposed in 2012 shows that the time for submitting comments
 to the disclosure statement was shorter as compared to the
 time given in response to the impugned disclosure dated
 14.09.2016. The earlier disclosure dated 10.8.2012, if not
 more, is equally conclusive and suggestive of imposition of
 anti-dumping duty because in para 147 of the disclosure
 statement it is stated that there is dumping, there is injury to
 Domestic Industry and injury is caused by dumping. Dumping
 Margin and Injury Margin is also shown to be positive in the
 earlier paragraphs. It was submitted that with these
 observations, even though the disclosure statement does not Page 50 of 118 HC-NIC Page 50 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 recommend duty in express terms, imposition of anti-dumping
 duty is inevitable because the disclosure statement establishes
 dumping, injury and casual link. It was submitted that seen in
 this context, the impugned disclosure dated 14.9.2016 also
 does not recommend withdrawal of duty in express terms. In
 fact, in para 60 of the disclosure statement, it has been
 expressly stated that the designated authority would conclude
 the matter after receiving comments from the interested
 parties. 18.1 The learned counsel further submitted that the
 disclosure statement under rule 16 of the rules was issued
 after completing all the stages of investigation under rule 6,
 including public hearing and after getting written submissions
 as well as rejoinder submissions of interested parties. It was
 submitted that it is at the fag end of the investigation, that the
 designated authority must discuss and conclude on every
 issue, otherwise the whole purpose of making submissions by
 interested parties would get frustrated. It was submitted that
 this is the practice which is being adopted worldwide, and,
 therefore, the disclosure statement cannot be faulted with
 because the designated authority has formed an opinion in the
 said disclosure. It was pointed out that thought a similar
 opinion has been formed by the designated authority in the
 original disclosure statement dated 10.08.2012, the petitioner
 has not raised any objection against the same. 18.2 The learned counsel further submitted that the
 disclosure statement under rule 16 read with Article 6.9 of
 WTO Agreement on Anti-dumping is a disclosure of essential
 facts and thus the scope of response by interested parties is Page 51 of 118 HC-NIC Page 51 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 limited to rectification of mistake in those essential facts and
 not a full-fledged response assailing the discussions and
 methodology adopted by designated authority. It was
 submitted that it must be noted that an apparent error in
 essential facts also must be first brought to the notice of
 designated authority and not directly to this court and that the
 petitioners having failed to point out any apparent error in the
 facts given in the disclosure statement to the designated
 authority, they have no locus standi to challenge such
 disclosure before this court. 18.3 It was vehemently argued that before the designated
 authority, Nirma Limited had never represented in its
 individual capacity and all the submissions had been made as
 part of Alkali Manufacturers Association (Domestic Industry)
 through their counsel. It was contended that now by filing a
 one-page letter post disclosure, the petitioners are seeking the
 indulgence of this court just with a view to delay the
 withdrawal of duty and to derive an undue advantage for
 which they have no locus standi. It was pointed out that even
 in the affidavit filed on 8.2.2017 the petitioner has not referred
 to any document submitted by them. 18.4 The learned counsel further submitted that the
 association of the domestic industry had represented its case
 before designated authority and has challenged the disclosure
 statement before the Delhi High Court in WP no. 8514 & 8628
 of 2016, which came to be withdrawn subsequently on
 27.9.2016. It was submitted that the association of the
 domestic industry has also filed its comments on the
 disclosure statement which has been taken on record and has Page 52 of 118 HC-NIC Page 52 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 been duly considered by designated authority; however, the
 association of the domestic industry is not before the court and
 the petitioner does not derive a locus standi in the case by
 filing a one-page letter. 18.5 Next it was submitted that the submission of petitioners
 that they have not been communicated the calculation sheet
 for NIP calculation is not correct, inasmuch as at no point of
 time, have they sought for a copy of the calculation sheet. It
 was submitted this this is not a case where the petitioners
 have sought for a copy of the calculation sheet and same has
 been denied by the designated authority. According to the
 learned counsel, if the calculation sheet was really not given to
 them, and if it was vital for them to make comments on
 disclosure, the petitioners should have requested a copy
 thereof. 18.6 It was further submitted that the petitioner-Nirma
 Limited in its letter above-referred letter dated 16th September,
 2016 has not complained of non-supply of the NIP calculation
 and has merely sought extra time. It was also submitted that
 the counsel representing the domestic industry was fully aware
 of the NIP calculation and that is why, in the submissions he
 has emphasized on inclusion of post manufacture freight and
 cost attributable to capacity expansion. 18.7 It was contended that the submission of petitioner that
 freight incurred beyond the factory and expenses attributable
 to capacity expansion which is yet to be installed and which is
 not part of their books of accounts, should be included in NIP
 calculation, has no basis because it is specifically excluded
 under clause 4 of Annexure III of Ant-dumping Rules,1995. It Page 53 of 118 HC-NIC Page 53 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 was submitted that the submission that expenses which are
 not included under Annexure III should still be included for
 analyzing injury under Annexure II is also misplaced, inasmuch
 as both the Annexures must be read in harmony. Annexure II
 basically deals with causal relationship between dumping and
 injury and scope of Annexure II is not just one parameter, but
 rather multiple parameters relating to price and volume effect
 of dumping, but in no way does it contradict the calculation
 provided under Annexure III. 18.8 The learned counsel further submitted that the
 petitioners do not have even a prima facie case because they
 have suffered neither any volume injury nor price injury. Their
 absolute sale figure, production and capacity utilization has
 gone up. There is a slight fluctuation in their market share
 which is basically attributable to their decision not to reduce
 the price and their inability to produce more. It was submitted
 that whatever the petitioners are able to produce, they are
 able to sell and that there is no injury on price front also
 because dumped imports have not forced them to reduce
 prices. It was submitted that the petitioners have continued to
 increase the price much more as compared to the increase in
 cost of sales resulting into exponential growth in their profits. 18.9 It was next contended that the petitioners are simply
 trying to block the imports from all significant producers of
 Soda Ash overseas. In this regard reference was made to the
 list of countries in the two impugned notifications, to point out
 that EU itself has got so many countries. It was emphatically
 argued that the case of the petitioners is that India should not
 allow any import at a price lower than their selling price, even Page 54 of 118 HC-NIC Page 54 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 though they fix a very high selling price arbitrarily, which
 cannot be allowed because in an open market economy, the
 respondents have right to procure raw materials from
 competitive sources. 18.10 The learned counsel further submitted that all the
 asterisk marks in the disclosure are actually attributable to
 claim of confidentiality with respect to net sale realization and
 NIP calculation by the petitioners' Association. Apart from this,
 the asterisks appearing in the dumping margin calculation are
 on account of the fact that every exporter claims his selling
 price as confidential, the way the domestic industry has
 claimed confidentiality in their selling price. It was submitted
 that there is no asterisk mark in the disclosure statement
 which can be attributed to confidentiality claimed by third
 respondent or any of the other respondents before the court.
 Therefore, the disclosure statement does disclose all the
 essential facts in detail including method of NIP calculation and
 the asterisk marks in the NIP calculation, price undercutting
 and injury margin are all attributable to confidentiality claims
 of the association of the domestic industry. 18.11 It was further submitted that with the addition of
 anti-dumping duty, the landed value is very high as compared
 to the NIP; that even without addition of anti-dumping duty,
 the landed value of imports is above the NIP of domestic
 industries, and thus injury margin is negative. It was submitted
 that this calculation is not going to change with the withdrawal
 of anti-dumping duty and hence, there is no likelihood of
 recurrence of injury to the domestic industry. It was urged that
 the decision making process is flawless and the entire Page 55 of 118 HC-NIC Page 55 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 procedure of investigation including compliance with the
 principles of natural justice as enshrined in rule 6 of the rules
 has been followed. 18.12 Dealing with the contention raised on behalf of the
 petitioners that the time granted for responding to the
 disclosure statement was too short, the learned counsel
 submitted that the time to be given for commenting on the
 disclosure statement has to be seen in the context of time
 available with the designated authority for the investigation.
 Further as a matter of fact, the association of the domestic
 industry has submitted its comments within the time given by
 the designated authority, which has been duly considered by it
 in the final findings dated 23.9.2016 and thus on ground of
 insufficient time period, the decision making process cannot be
 faulted with. It was further submitted that Article 6.14 of WTO
 Agreement on Anti-dumping, states that the procedure set out
 in the Article 6 (which includes article 6.9 which dealing with
 the disclosure statement) are not intended to prevent
 authorities from proceeding expeditiously. It was submitted
 that, therefore, where the designated authority has tried to
 complete the proceeding within time, it should not be
 interfered with on the ground of insufficient time, more so,
 when the association of petitioners has actually submitted its
 response within the time given. 18.13 Lastly, it was submitted that it was the association
 of the domestic industry which requested for an analysis of
 likelihood of injury based on third country export data which
 has been taken from World Trade Atlas (WTA) and it is
 disclosed in final findings and it is the NIP and injury margin Page 56 of 118 HC-NIC Page 56 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 calculation which has been treated as confidential because
 domestic industry has claimed confidentiality in those
 calculations. The discussion in paragraphs 99 and 100 of the
 final findings supports the analysis done in the disclosure
 statement and thus the final findings cannot be faulted with on
 this ground. It was contended that if at all, the petitioners find
 this analysis to be faulty, the proper remedy is by way of an
 appeal before CESTAT under section 9C of the Customs Tariff
 Act, 1975, where the reasoning adopted in final findings can be
 assailed. 18.14 It was also submitted that the petitioners filed a WP
 within 6 days, and their association also filed a WP before Delhi
 HC within 6 days, wherein the impugned disclosure statement
 has been commented upon at length. Therefore, assailing the
 time of 6 days given for submitting comments to the disclosure
 statement before this court is not justified and is being done
 with ill-will. 19 Mr. Nirzar Desai, learned senior standing counsel for the
 second respondent - designated authority invited the attention
 of the court to the averments made in the affidavit-in-reply
 filed by the second respondent wherein, it has been denied
 that there was any irregularity in the process of publication of
 final findings on 23.09.2016. It was pointed out that no
 attempts have been made to overreach the orders of this court
 and the final findings have been sent and published on
 23.09.2016 itself. 19.1 It was submitted that the contention that the petitioners
 were not given adequate opportunity to deal with the Page 57 of 118 HC-NIC Page 57 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 disclosure statement has no merit and that the petitioner had
 all the opportunities to rebut the facts and observations of the
 designated authority as disclosed in the disclosure statement
 like all other interested parties and that the post disclosure
 comments of the petitioners were also examined while
 notifying the final findings. It was submitted that the final
 findings were issued at the end of a long process of
 investigation which covered examination of facts and legal
 provisions, necessary verification of facts so submitted by
 various parties, including the petitioners, to the extent found
 necessary, granting opportunity of hearing, etc.

 19.2 It was submitted that the likelihood determination that
 the injury to the domestic industry is not likely to continue or
 recur if the existing anti-dumping duty is removed or varied is
 not a standalone examination of threat of injury parameters
 provided in Annexure-II to the rules as indicative parameters of
 likelihood also. The examination inter alia covers various other
 aspects also and the designated authority is bound to take into
 consideration all such parameters. It was submitted that the
 designated authority has clearly concluded that dumping
 continued, but there was no likelihood of injury if the duties are
 removed, thus, the contention that criteria (ii) and (iv) of
 Annexure-II was not considered is of no relevance in the
 factual matrix of the present case. Reference was made to the
 findings recorded by the designated authority in the final
 findings to point out that various parameters have been
 considered by it to come to the conclusion that if anti-dumping
 duties imposed on the imports of subject goods originating in
 or exported from the subject countries are removed, the injury
 to the domestic industry is not likely to recur. 19.3 Next, it was submitted that the WTA data relied upon to
 examine specific claims of the parties as a matter of practice is
 not disclosed in any of the cases and the designated authority
 gets information from WTA under an agreement and the same
 is not freely published. It was submitted that the issue of non-
 disclosure of WTA data is without merit since the petitioners
 could not establish how the injuries would have recurred if the
 duties were removed when the domestic industry had been
 showing remarkable performance in terms of various injury
 parameters. 19.4 Insofar as the contention that the time that was granted
 from the date of issuance of disclosure statement to the date
 for filing the comments on the disclosure being very short is
 concerned, it was submitted that two mid-term reviews were
 pending before the designated authority in connection with the
 same product, viz., soda ash, both of which are subject matter
 of challenge in the present petitions, viz., the mid-term review
 in relation to China PR, EU, Iran, USA, Ukraine, Pakistan and in
 relation to Turkey and Russia. It was submitted that insofar as
 the investigation in respect of Turkey and Russia is concerned,
 the proceedings were initiated on 01.10.2016 and no extension
 was sought and hence, the period of twelve months was to
 come to an end on 30.09.2016 and hence, to avoid the
 complications which would arise if in one case, the final
 findings on similar issues are declared on or before 30.09.2016
 and in the present case it is delayed beyond that period, the
 Central Government had accorded permission for extension of
 time up to 30th September, 2016 for completing the subject
 investigation and notifying the final findings. It was submitted Page 59 of 118 HC-NIC Page 59 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 that therefore, the decision to grant extension only up to
 30.09.2016 is a well-considered decision and the period has
 not been arbitrarily extended up to 30.09.2016 only, and that
 there is a valid reason behind the same. 19.5 It was further submitted that neither of the petitioners,
 viz., NIRMA Limited, nor DCW Limited have appeared before
 the designated authority in their individual capacities and that
 the domestic industry has been represented as a whole. It was
 submitted that against the final findings, an appeal lies before
 the CESTAT against the notification notifying final findings and
 hence, the petitioners are required to be relegated to avail of
 the statutory remedy available under section 9C of the
 Customs Tariff Act. It was submitted that there is no breach of
 the principles of natural justice as urged by the learned
 counsel for the petitioners, nor has the decision been taken in
 a haste. It was submitted that the procedure in terms of
 Annexures I, II and III to the rules has been duly followed. It
 was submitted that this court while considering the validity of
 the disclosure statement of the final findings, would only
 examine whether the procedure has been duly followed and
 would only examine as to whether the decision-making
 process is in accordance with law. Reference was made to
 paragraph-21 of the additional affidavit of the designated
 authority to submit that all the relevant parameters have been
 duly considered by it. Reliance was placed upon the decision of
 the Supreme Court in the case of Rishiroop Polymers (P)
 Ltd. v. Designated Authority and Additional Secretary ,
 (2006) 4 SCC 303, to submit that the scope of a mid-term
 review is limited to examining whether the conditions existing
 at the time of imposition of anti-dumping duty had altered to Page 60 of 118 HC-NIC Page 60 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 an extent rendering the continued imposition of duty,
 unjustified. Moreover, the said inquiry is limited to the
 information received with respect to the changes in various
 parameters in para (iv) of Annexure-II to the rules. The purpose
 of the review is not to ascertain the need for imposition of anti-
 dumping duty, but to ascertain the facts and discontinue such
 duty. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Designated Authority v.
 Haldor Topsoe A/S. (supra) and more particularly, paragraph-
 19 thereof. It was submitted that whether to extend the time
 or not is an administrative decision of the designated authority
 and he may exercise his prudence. It was submitted that the
 principles of natural justice have been duly complied with and
 the procedure has been followed and all information and
 objections have been objectively considered and hence, there
 is no warrant for interference by this court. 20 Mr. Paritosh Gupta, learned advocate for the fifth
 respondent adopted the submissions advanced by Mr.
 Sitharaman, Mr. Nankani and Mr. Pramod Kumar Rai. He further
 submitted that the determination of injury under rule 11 of the
 rules in respect of whether there is any material retardation
 would apply only in case of a new industry being established
 and would not apply to an extension. It was submitted that
 rule 17 of the rules provides for a period of one year for issuing
 final findings and that the Central Government has a discretion
 to extend the time limit under special circumstances which it
 may exercise. It was submitted that no special circumstances
 have been made out in the facts of the present case to extend
 the time limit any further. As regards the submission advanced
 on behalf of the petitioners that initiation of mid-term review Page 61 of 118 HC-NIC Page 61 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 was not valid, it was submitted that initiation was not
 challenged at the relevant time and that the petitioners having
 participated in the proceedings are now barred from raising
 such a challenge at this stage. It was submitted that the entire
 purpose of rule 16 of the rules is to ascertain that the data
 before the designated authority is correct and complete and
 mere clarifications are required at this stage and there is no
 question of a full-fledged hearing. Insofar as reliance placed by
 the designated authority upon the WTA data is concerned, it
 was submitted that the designated authority was required to
 rely upon such data for the purpose of supporting its decision
 in reply to a contention raised by the petitioners. It was
 submitted that the scope of a review under rule 23 of the rules
 is limited and that review would entail investigation of the
 factors relevant at the time of imposition of duty and no other
 factors. It was submitted that rule 11 of the rules has to be
 applied to the extent of the scope of rule 23 of the rules only. 21. In rejoinder, Mr. Mihir Joshi, learned counsel for the
 petitioners submitted that the disclosure statement is
 something on the basis of which the interested party can
 defend its interests and is not merely a draft. Referring to the
 provisions of section 9A(5) of the Act it was submitted that in a
 review the Central Government is required to form an opinion
 as to whether cessation of such duty is likely to lead to
 continuance or recurrence of dumping and injury. It was
 submitted that if there is a finding that there is injury, what is
 required to be examined is whether it is likely to continue but if
 there is no injury, then the question as to whether the injury is
 likely to recur is required to be examined. It was submitted
 that essential facts are those facts on the basis of which the Page 62 of 118 HC-NIC Page 62 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 designated authority can decide whether there is any injury
 and whether there is likelihood of continuance or recurrence
 thereof. 21.1 Reference to the report of the Appellate Body of the
 World Trade Organization in WT/DS454/AB/R, WT/DS460/AB/R
 dated 14th October, 2015 in China-Measures Imposing Anti-
 Dumping Duties on High-Performance Stainless Steel Seamless
 Tubes ("HP-SSST") from Japan and China-Measures Imposing
 Anti-Dumping Duties on High-Performance Stainless Steel
 Seamless Tubes ("HP-SSST") from the European Union (para
 5.133), to point out that in the facts of the said case the WTO
 Panel had considered that a determination of whether an
 investigating authority has complied with its obligations under
 that provision hinges largely on whether the essential facts
 under consideration by the investigating authority were in the
 possession of an interested party affected by the
 determination. The Appellate Body held that contrary to what
 the Panel stated it does not suffice for an investigating
 authority to disclose "the essential facts under consideration" or, (ii) when there are no sales of the like article in the
 ordinary course of trade in the domestic market of the
 exporting country or territory, or when because of the
 particular market situation or low volume of the sales in
 the domestic market of the exporting country or
 territory, such sales do not permit a proper comparison,
 the normal value shall be either- (a) comparable representative price of the like article
 when exported from the exporting country or territory to
 an appropriate third country as determined in
 accordance with the rules made under sub-section (6);
 or, (b) the cost of production of the said article in the Page 70 of 118 HC-NIC Page 70 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 country of origin along with reasonable addition for
 administrative, selling and general costs, and for profits,
 as determined in accordance with the rules made under
 sub-section (6): HC-NIC Page 71 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT (i) under section 9 or section 9A by reasons of
 exemption of such articles from duties or taxes borne by
 the like article when meant for consumption in the
 country of origin or exportation or by reasons of refund
 of such duties or taxes; (ii) under sub-section (1) of either of section 9 and
 section 9A, on the import into India of any article from a
 member country of the World Trade Organisation or
 from a country with whom Government of India has a
 most favoured nation agreement (hereafter referred to
 as a specified country), unless in accordance with the
 rules made under sub-section (2) of this section, a
 determination has been made that import of such article
 into India causes or threatens material injury to any
 established industry in India or materially retards the
 establishment of any industry in India; and (iii) xxxx" 32.9 The designated authority has also taken into account
 other known factors and causal link and has, inter alia,
 considered export performance of domestic industry and noted Page 84 of 118 HC-NIC Page 84 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 that the export performance of the domestic industry has
 fallen drastically during the POI as compared to the base year.
 During the POI, the export performance has shown some
 improvement vis-a-vis the POI, but remained much below the
 performance during the base year. 32.10 Insofar as likelihood of continuation or recurrence of
 injury, which is of utmost importance insofar as the mid-term
 review is concerned, the designated authority has observed
 thus: The Authority examined the likelihood of continuation or
 recurrence dumping and injury considering the
 parameters relating to the threat of material injury in
 terms of Annexure II (vii) of the Rules, which states as
 under: Examination by the Authority 53. Rule 23 of Anti-dumping Rules of India requires
 the Authority to examine the need for continued
 imposition of the duty from time to time. In this regard,
 the Authority notes as under: 54. In order to examine, the likelihood of injury to the
 domestic industry due to dumping of the subject goods
 from the subject countries, the Authority has undertaken
 analysis of the volume of exports of the subject goods to
 India from the subject countries during the POI and post-
 POI periods. The Authority notes that the volume of the
 exports from subject countries to India during the POI
 and post POI on the basis of DGCI&S data was 49071 MT
 and 38611 MT (Annualised), showing a decline in
 exports. But, mere growth in exports, even at dumped
 prices, does not indicate a likely situation justifying
 continued imposition of anti-dumping duty, unless of
 course, such imports are likely to cause injury to the
 domestic industry. Market share of Subject Countries in the Indian
 market 55. The Authority notes that the market share of the
 subject countries has drastically fallen during the POI as Page 86 of 118 HC-NIC Page 86 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 compared to the base year and the declining trend
 continued during the post POI as well. On the contrary,
 the market share of the domestic industry has also
 declined during the POI as compared to the base year,
 but showing upward trend during the post POI. Thus, the
 position indicates that the market share of the domestic
 industry has not been impacted by the imports from the
 subject countries. Price attractiveness of Indian market 56. The Authority notes that the landed value from the
 subject countries is more than the NIP. However, the
 undercutting effect is positive during POI and post POI
 from the subject countries. The underselling effects are
 negative during POI as well as post POI. Thus, in the
 event of the revocation of anti-dumping duties, the
 Indian prices would not be too attractive to the foreign
 producers and there is no likelihood that Indian
 consumers would import substantially due to increasing
 demand. Export orientation of foreign producers 57. Even if the subject countries are export oriented,
 export orientation among the producers of the subject
 goods in the subject countries itself cannot be a strong
 likelihood factor unless backed by favorable market
 conditions and weak domestic industry in India.
 Although there is high demand for the subject goods in
 India, the prices prevailing in Indian market and the
 strong domestic industry base may not be conducive for
 the subject countries to target Indian market in the
 event of revocation of the duties. Level of current and past dumping margin 58. The Authority notes that during the POI, the
 dumping margin in the original investigation as well as
 the present MTR are positive. In the post POI, the
 dumping margin in respect of the cooperative exporters
 of Turkey is negative, but the country as a whole, it is
 positive. In case of Russia, the dumping margin is
 positive both during the POI as well as post POI. But,
 dumping of any magnitude has no relevance under the Page 87 of 118 HC-NIC Page 87 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Indian anti-dumping law as long as it does not cause
 injury to the domestic industry. In the present
 investigation, injury margin is negative in the POI as well
 as post POI periods, thereby indicating no injury to the
 domestic industry and no likelihood of injury as well in
 the event of revocation of the duties. 59. The essential facts of the investigation, as
 analysed by the Authority in this finding, sufficiently
 prove that the despite continued dumping of subject
 goods from the subject countries, the economic
 condition of the domestic industries has improved
 remarkably and indicate further improvement during the
 post POI. Thus, the changed circumstances, as alleged
 by the applicant, are not transient but there to stay in
 favour of the domestic industries in the event of
 revocation of the duties. 60. The Authority would conclude on the matter after
 receiving the comments of the interested parties on this
 disclosure statement." 32.11 Thus, the designated authority has taken into
 consideration the aforesaid factors while coming to the
 conclusion as to whether or not definitive measures are
 required to be applied. In this regard, it may be noted that the
 designated authority has not disclosed the details of dumping
 margin calculations to the petitioner, viz., the difference
 between the Export Price and Normal Value. The designated
 authority has not disclosed the basis for determining Normal
 Value and Export Price and has also not disclosed the
 methodology and computation. The designated authority has
 considered the value of Cost of Sales and Selling Price based
 on the data submitted by the domestic industry, but has not
 disclosed what data has been used by it while determining the
 price suppression and price depression effect. While
 determining the price undercutting, the value for Net Sales Page 88 of 118 HC-NIC Page 88 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 Realisation is calculated on the basis of data provided by the
 domestic industry but the actual figures and methodology are
 not disclosed. The non-injurious price for the post POI has not
 been disclosed while determining the Price Underselling and
 the computation of the NIP has not been furnished for the POI
 as well as the post POI. The designated authority has used the
 data supplied by the domestic industry while determining data
 relating to inventories but has failed to disclose the same.
 While determining profits and actual and potential on cash
 flow, the figures of profit, return on investments, BPIT etc. are
 worked out on the basis of the information submitted by the
 domestic industry, but not disclosed to the domestic industry.
 While determining magnitude of injury and injury margin, the
 designated authority has failed to disclose post POI NIP as well
 as methodology and calculation. 32.12 As can be seen from the findings recorded by the
 designated authority on various parameters relevant for the
 purpose of coming to the conclusion as to whether or not
 definitive measures are required to be applied, it has placed
 reliance on certain information for the purpose of arriving at its
 findings which are essential facts. All the information which are
 relied upon by the designated authority to the extent the same
 is not protected by rule 7 of the rules, was in the nature of
 necessary information which should have been disclosed to the
 interested parties to enable them to comment on the
 completeness and correctness of the facts that were being
 considered by the designated authority, and to provide
 additional information or correct the perceived errors and
 comment on or make arguments as to the proper
 interpretation of those facts. The entire body of facts essential Page 89 of 118 HC-NIC Page 89 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 to the determinations that must be made by the designated
 authority before it can decide whether to apply definitive
 measures are required to be disclosed to the interested
 parties. A perusal of the tabular form regarding the data which
 are reproduced in the disclosure statement reveals that at
 various places instead of the relevant data the table contains
 asterisks which would indicate that such information is
 confidential. While it is true that the such information being
 confidential in nature, cannot be disclosed in the disclosure
 statement itself, it appears to be the general practice to
 provide the same to the parties separately. However, in the
 facts of the present case, despite the fact that the information
 has been furnished by the domestic industry itself, the
 computation of the various factors referred to hereinabove,
 has not been furnished to the domestic industry. In the opinion
 of this court, it was incumbent upon the designated authority
 to furnish the relevant facts which have been used by it as the
 basis for arriving at its conclusion on the essential facts
 necessary for the purpose of arriving at a decision as to
 whether or not the definitive measures are required to be
 applied. Non-disclosure of the essential facts is, therefore,
 clearly in breach of the principles of natural justice. 33. The second contention for assailing the disclosure
 statement is that there is failure to comply with the statutory
 requirements. In this regard, it may be necessary to refer to
 certain provisions of the Anti-Dumping Rules. 33.1 Rule 4 of the rules provides for the duties of the
 designated authority and reads thus: - 33.2 Rule 6 of the rules lays down the principles governing
 investigations. Rule 7 of the rules bears the heading
 "Confidential information" and lays down that notwithstanding
 anything contained in sub-rules (2), (3) and (7) of rule 6, sub-
 rule (2) of rule 12, sub-rule (4) of rule 15 and sub-rule (4) of
 rule 17, the copies of applications received under sub-rule (1)
 of rule 5, or any other information provided to the designated
 authority on a confidential basis by any party in the course of
 investigation, shall, upon the designated authority being
 satisfied as to its confidentiality, be treated as such by it and Page 91 of 118 HC-NIC Page 91 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 no such information shall be disclosed to any other party
 without specific authorization of the party providing such
 information. 33.3 Rule 10 of the rules provides for determination of normal
 value, export price and margin of dumping, and postulates
 that an article shall be considered as being dumped if it is
 exported from a country or territory to India at a price less
 than its normal value and in such circumstances, the
 designated authority shall determine the normal value, export
 price and the margin of dumping taking into account, inter
 alia, the principles laid down in Annexure I to the rules. Rule 11
 of the rules provides for determination of injury. Sub-rule (1)
 thereof provides that in the case of imports from specified
 countries, the designated authority shall record a further
 finding that import of such article into India (i)causes or
 threatens material injury to any established industry in India;
 or (ii) materially retards the establishment of any industry in
 India. Under sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the rules, the designated
 authority is required to determine (i) the injury to domestic
 industry; (ii) threat of injury to domestic industry; (iii) material
 retardation to establishment of domestic industry; and (iv) a
 causal link between dumped imports and injury, and for this
 purpose, the designated authority is required to take into
 account all relevant facts, including (i) volume of dumped
 imports, (ii) their effect on price in the domestic article for like
 articles, and (iii) consequent effect of such imports on
 domestic producers of such articles, in accordance with the
 principles set out in Annexure II to the rules. Therefore, the
 authority is required to determine the parameters laid down in sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the rules in terms of the principles set Page 92 of 118 HC-NIC Page 92 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 out in Annexure-II to the rules. 33.4 Annexure-II to the rules lays down the principles for
 determination of injury and provides that the designated
 authority while determining (i) the injury, or (ii) threat of
 material injury to domestic industry or (iii) material retardation
 of the establishment of such an industry (hereinafter referred
 to as "injury" and causal link between dumped imports and
 such injury, shall, inter alia, take the following principles under
 consideration. The principles relevant for purpose of the
 present case, are as under: the magnitude of the margin of dumping; actual and
 potential negative effects on cash flow, inventories,
 employment, wages, growth, ability to raise capital
 investments. (v) Xxxx (vi) xxxx (vii) A determination of threat of material injury shall be
 based on facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture
 or remote possibility. The change in circumstances
 which would create a situation in which the dumping
 would cause injury must be clearly foreseen and
 imminent. In making a determination regarding the
 existence of a threat of material injury, the designated
 authority shall consider, inter alia, such factors as: 33.5 One of the main submissions of the learned counsel for
 the petitioners is that while examining the likelihood
 parameters, the designated authority has not complied with
 the provisions of clause (vii) of Annexure-II to the rules. 33.6 At this juncture, it may be germane to refer to the
 additional affidavit filed on behalf of the designated authority. In paragraph-24 thereof, it has been stated thus: "Considering
 the nature of Review, a likelihood of injury test also has been
 conducted specifically in para 86 to 95 of the final findings. It
 is also pertinent to examine whether injury to the domestic
 industry is likely to recur due to these dumped imports if the
 duty is removed or varied. The Authority examined the
 likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury
 considering the parameters relating to the threat of material
 injury in terms of Annexure II (vii) of the rules". It is
 emphasized that examination of relevant facts on likelihood of
 injury led to the conclusions set out in detail thereunder.
 Briefly stated such conclusions are: - HC-NIC Page 95 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT (iii) Price attractiveness of the Indian market: For this
 purpose, the designated authority has relied upon the NIP
 and has noted that both price undercutting and price
 underselling are negative during POI as well as post POI. (iv) Export orientation of foreign producers. Even if the
 subject countries are export oriented, that by itself cannot
 be a strong likelihood factor unless backed by favourable
 market conditions and weak domestic industry in India.
 Although there is a high demand for the subject goods in
 India, the prices prevailing in the Indian market and the
 strong domestic industry base may not be conducive for the
 subject countries to target Indian market in the event of
 revocation of the duties. (v) Level of current and past dumping margin: The
 designated has, inter alia, noted that in the present
 investigation, injury margin is negative in the POI as well as
 post POI periods, thereby indicating no injury to the
 domestic industry and there is no likelihood of injury as well
 in the event of revocation of the duties. 33.7 Thus, though most of the factors which are required to
 be taken into consideration for the purpose of determination of
 injury, namely, increase in volume, increase in dumping,
 increase in margin of dumping and price undercutting are all
 positive and only price suppression and price depression are
 absent, the designated authority, instead of relying upon the
 said factors for the purpose of basing his decision as to
 whether or not to continue with the determinative measures, Page 96 of 118 HC-NIC Page 96 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 has placed reliance upon an irrelevant factor, viz., injury
 margin, which is not required to be taken into consideration
 while considering the likelihood aspect under clause (vii) of
 Annexure II to the rules. Clause (vii) of Annexure II to the rules
 provides for four factors which are required to be taken into
 consideration, viz.: crease in, capacity of the exporter indicating the likelihood of
 substantially increased dumped exports to Indian markets, tak-
 ing into account the availability of other export markets to ab-
 sorb any additional exports; (c) whether imports are entering at prices that will have a sig-
 nificant depressing or suppressing effect on domestic prices,
 and would likely increase demand for further imports; and (d) inventories of the article being investigated. Out of the above four factors, the designated authority has
 taken into consideration the factors prescribed under sub-
 clauses (a) and (c). However, insofar as sub-clause (c) is
 concerned, the designated authority has placed reliance upon incorrect facts, namely, though the price undercutting is
 positive, it has considered the same to be negative and drawn
 its conclusions accordingly. 33.8 Insofar as the factors prescribed under sub-clauses (b)
 and (d) of clause (vii) of Annexure II to the rules are concerned,
 it, however, has been contended on behalf of the respondents
 that the designated authority has also considered those
 factors. In this regard, a perusal of the disclosure statement
 shows that while the designated authority has taken into Page 97 of 118 HC-NIC Page 97 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 consideration the above two factors, it is manifest that while
 doing so, it has taken into consideration incorrect facts,
 inasmuch as, instead of considering the capacity of production
 of the exporters indicating the likelihood of substantially
 increased dumped exports to Indian markets, as contemplated
 under sub-clause (b), it has taken into consideration the
 capacity of production of the domestic industry; and instead of
 taking into consideration the existence of inventories of the
 dumped imports that could meet any increase or future
 demand for the imports, has taken into consideration the
 inventories of the domestic industry. Evidently therefore, the
 designated authority has failed to follow the procedure laid
 down under clause (vii) of Annexure-II to the rules for the
 purpose of determination of threat of material injury in the
 manner prescribed thereunder. 33.9 On behalf of the respondents it has been contended that
 the factors mentioned for a threat of material injury
 determination are not mandatory for a likelihood of recurrence
 of injury analysis. That the designated authority in its wisdom
 has considered some of the factors mentioned for a threat of
 material injury analysis and that non-consideration of all the
 factors does not vitiate the analysis. To test this contention
 reference may be made to clause (vii) of Annexure II to the
 rules, which says that in making a determination regarding the
 existence of material injury, the designated authority shall
 consider, inter alia, such factors as (a), (b), (c) and (d)
 enumerated thereunder. In the opinion of this court, in view of
 the use of the expression inter alia in the said clause, the
 inquiry may not be limited only to the four factors specified
 thereunder. However, the provision mandates that the Page 98 of 118 HC-NIC Page 98 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 designated authority shall take into consideration the factors
 stated therein. It has also been contended on behalf of the
 petitioners that clause (vii) should be read in conjunction with Article 3.7 of the ADA which provides that "... In making a
 determination regarding existence of a threat of material
 injury, the authorities should consider, inter alia, such factors
 as ..." That this sentence used the word "should" and not
 "shall" and therefore, the factors mentioned in respect of
 threat of material injury are not mandatory. In the opinion of
 this court, such contention does not merit acceptance for the
 reason that the expression "should" is merely the past tense of
 the word shall and that is how the rule making body appears to
 have construed the same. Hence, the language of the rule
 being mandatory, the designated authority was required to
 consider the existence of all the four factors. The petitioners
 are, therefore, wholly justified in contending that the
 designated authority has failed to follow the relevant statutory
 provisions laid down in accordance with law while issuing the
 disclosure statement. 34. Another significant aspect of the matter is that the
 designated authority while recording its conclusions on
 material injury, has recorded that the net sales realisation is
 more than the landed price from the subject countries during
 the POIO as well as PIO; while price undercutting and
 underselling effects are negative and price depression and
 suppression effects are absent during POI as well as post POI.
 On the basis thereof, the designated authority has concluded
 that there is tremendous improvement in the economic health
 of the domestic industry during the POI and continued
 improvement during post POI period do not exhibit any Page 99 of 118 HC-NIC Page 99 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 material injury. It may therefore be apposite to refer to the
 meaning of the above terms. Price undercutting is stated to be
 the difference between sales realisation of the domestic
 industry at factory gate net of taxes and landed value of
 imports. If the sales realisation is more than the landed price
 the same indicates positive price undercutting and if the sales
 realisation is less than the landed price, the same indicates
 negative price undercutting. In the present case, the
 designated authority has recorded that the sales realisation is
 more than the landed price, which itself is a pointer to the fact
 that the price undercutting is positive, and while recording the
 essential facts the designated authority has accordingly, come
 to the conclusion that price undercutting is positive. However,
 the designated authority while coming to the conclusion that
 there is no material injury has taken into consideration
 incorrect facts, viz. that the price undercutting is negative.
 Insofar as "injury margin" and "price underselling" are
 concerned, both are based upon the non-injurious price. The
 difference between non-injurious price and landed value of
 imports is referred to as "injury margin" to the domestic
 industry and "price underselling" is the difference between NIP
 of the domestic industry and landed value of imports. It may
 be noted that injury margin is required to be determined when
 the designated authority comes to the conclusion that there is
 material injury requiring imposition of anti-dumping duty,
 whereupon the quantum of anti-dumping duty to be levied is
 based upon the injury margin. Therefore, determination of
 injury margin would come into play only in case the designated
 authority comes to the conclusion that determinative
 measures are required to be applied. Where the designated
 authority comes to the conclusion that no determinative Page 100 of 118 HC-NIC Page 100 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 measures are required to be imposed, as in the present case,
 the question of determining the injury margin would not arise. 34.1 Under the scheme of the rules, the concept of non-
 injurious price comes into play at the stage of rule 17 thereof,
 viz., at the stage of recording the final findings. Sub-rule (1) of
 rule 17 of the rules provides that the designated authority
 shall, within one year from the date of initiation of an
 investigation, determine as to whether or not the article under
 investigation is being dumped in India and submit to the
 Central Government its final finding as to the factors
 enumerated thereunder. Clause (b) to sub-rule (1) of rule 17 of
 the rules provides for recommending the amount of duty
 which, if levied, would remove the injury where applicable, to
 the domestic industry after considering the principles laid
 down in the Annexure III to the rules. Thus, the designated
 authority, under sub-rule (1) of rule 17 of the rules, is required
 to recommend the amount of anti-dumping duty which, if
 levied, would remove the injury where applicable, to the
 domestic industry and for the purpose of making such
 recommendation, the designated authority is required to
 consider the principles laid down in the Annexure III to the
 rules which lays down the principles for determination of non-
 injurious price. It is therefore, manifest that the stage of
 determination of the non-injurious price is at the stage of sub-
 rule (1) of rule 17 of the rules, viz., recommending the amount
 of duty which, if levied, would remove the injury where
 applicable to the domestic industry. However, for the purpose
 of rule 16 which requires the designated authority to disclose
 the essential facts under consideration which form the basis
 for its decision whether or not to apply determinative measure, Page 101 of 118 HC-NIC Page 101 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 determination of non-injurious price is irrelevant, as the same
 has no relevance so far as determination of injury is
 concerned. While the designated authority may compute the
 non-injurious price for the purpose of giving the parties an
 opportunity to make their comments in respect of such
 computation at the stage of disclosure statement, however,
 such non-injurious price cannot be taken into consideration for
 the purpose of determination of injury. Non-injurious price
 having no relevance insofar as determination of injury is
 concerned, would not form an essential fact for the purpose of
 arriving at a decision as to whether or not determinative
 measures are required to be applied. It is only after coming to
 the conclusion that there is injury necessitating imposition of
 or continuance of anti-dumping duty, that the designated
 authority is required to determine the injury margin, for which
 purpose it has to determine the non-injurious price as per the
 principles laid down in Annexure III to the rules for the purpose
 of fixing the quantum of anti-dumping duty to be imposed. The
 designated authority has recorded findings in the disclosure
 statement to the effect that since the injury margin is negative
 in the POI as well as post POI, domestic industry was not
 injured during POI and post POI and hence, there is no
 likelihood of injury to the domestic industry in case of
 revocation of duty. The designated authority has also recorded
 that the landed price is more than the NIP and both price
 undercutting and price underselling are negative during POI
 and post POI. Thus, the designated authority has based its
 findings on essential facts based upon the "injury margin" and
 "price underselling" as well as the fact that price undercutting
 is negative. As noted hereinabove, insofar as the injury margin
 and price underselling are concerned, the same are not Page 102 of 118 HC-NIC Page 102 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 relevant factors at the stage of examination of likelihood of
 injury in a disclosure statement. The designated authority was,
 therefore, not justified in placing reliance upon factors like
 "injury margin" and the "price underselling" while considering
 the question of likelihood of injury to the domestic industry in
 case of revocation of duties. Insofar as "price undercutting" is
 concerned, the designated authority has specifically recorded
 a finding that the that price undercutting is positive during the
 POI as well as post POI, whereas it has based its conclusions on
 an incorrect fact, viz. that price undercutting is negative.
 Therefore, it cannot be said as to what extent such irrelevant
 factors and incorrect facts have weighed upon the designated
 authority while coming to the conclusion that there is no injury
 or likelihood of injury to the domestic industry. Under the
 circumstances, the findings recorded by the designated
 authority being based upon incorrect facts and irrelevant
 factors, stand vitiated. 35. As discussed earlier, the designated authority has based
 its findings on the injury margin, which in turn is based upon
 the non-injurious price, it, however, has not provided the
 computation of such non-injurious price to the petitioners. It is
 an accepted position that the non-injurious price has been
 determined on the basis of information provided by the
 petitioners. At this juncture it may be apposite to refer to the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Reliance Industries Ltd. v.
 Designated Authority , (2006) 10 SCC 368, wherein it has
 been held thus: (Emphasis supplied)" injurious price would have been provided on demand. Apart
 from the fact that the petitioners have contended that despite
 the fact that GHCL had requested for supply of the calculation
 of NIP, the same was not provided to it, if the submission of
 the respondents were to be expected at face value, the time Page 106 of 118 HC-NIC Page 106 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 limit of six days in such circumstances, cannot by any means
 be said to be reasonable, inasmuch as after the disclosure
 statement is issued, the petitioners would have to study the
 same to first become aware that the computation of NIP has
 not been provided; they would thereafter, be required to
 request the designated authority to furnish the same to them,
 in response to which the designated authority would supply
 the computation of NIP, whereafter the petitioners would be
 required to offer their comments to the disclosure statement. It
 cannot be gainsaid that a period of six days for completed in
 the aforesaid procedure is highly inadequate. When sufficient
 time could easily have been granted to the parties by
 extending the time for submitting final findings for a slightly
 longer period, the respondents on the ground of parallel review
 proceedings, were not justified in not granting sufficient time
 to the parties to make their comments on the disclosure
 statement. At the time of the initial proceedings for levy of
 anti-dumping duty, it appears that Division Bench of the
 Madras High Court in writ appeals had in view of the fact that
 the last date for passing of final finding by the designated
 authority was coming to an end on 18th February, 2012, by an
 order dated 1st February, 2012 had modified the interim order
 passed by the learned Single Judge and permitted the
 designated authority to proceed further. It is in these
 circumstances, that the disclosure statement was issued on
 10th February, 2012 and final findings were rendered on 17 th
 February, 2012. Thus, it was due to intervening circumstances
 that an emergent situation had arisen at the relevant time.
 However, in the facts of the present case, though no such
 situation had arisen and it was possible for the designated
 authority to ensure that sufficient time was available to the Page 107 of 118 HC-NIC Page 107 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 parties to comment on the disclosure statement, an urgency
 has been created whereby no further time could be granted to
 the parties to defend their interests. 36.1 The challenge to the final findings is principally based
 upon the contention that the designated authority has placed
 reliance upon material and facts for concluding the issue
 against the petitioners which did not form part of the
 disclosure statement and that the petitioners, therefore, did
 not have any opportunity to deal with the same. Such
 contention is mainly based upon the fact that the designated
 authority in paragraph 98 of the final findings, has placed
 reliance upon the data available from the WTA for the POI. It
 has been contended on behalf of the petitioners that the
 designated authority has referred to data obtained from the
 World Trade Atlas, whereas no reference was made to this
 essential fact in the disclosure statement, nor has this
 information been made available to the petitioners in the
 course of investigation and that the failure to make available
 to the parties the material on which the decision is based, is in
 violation of the principles of natural justice and reliance on
 such data is nothing but an attempt to circumvent the correct
 and relevant facts in order to support a decision already taken.
 It is an accepted position that the designated authority has, at
 the stage of final findings , placed reliance upon the data
 available in the WTA which information has not been shared
 with the domestic industry. 37.1 On behalf of the respondents, it has been contended
 that reliance has been placed by the designated authority on
 the WTA data with a view to deal with the comments made by Page 108 of 118 HC-NIC Page 108 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 the domestic industry in response to the disclosure statement.
 As is discernible from the scheme of the Act and the rules,
 there is no further stage of hearing or submitting comments
 after the final findings are rendered. Under the rules, the
 Central Government may under sub-rule (1) of rule 18 of the
 rules impose anti-dumping duty pursuant to the final findings
 recorded by the designated authority which should not exceed
 the margin of dumping as determined under rule 17.
 Therefore, the parties would have no opportunity to meet with
 any additional material that is taken into consideration while
 recording the final findings, therefore, reliance on any material
 in respect of which the parties have not been granted any
 opportunity to deal with, would be violative of the principles of
 natural justice. The designated authority at the stage of final
 findings, therefore, could not have placed reliance upon any
 material which was extraneous to the material which was
 furnished to the parties and considered at the relevant time
 while issuing disclosure statement. In case any additional data
 or information was to be used, it was incumbent upon the
 designated authority to put the parties to notice in respect of
 such additional information. Therefore, non-sharing of the data
 available in the WTA, on which reliance has been placed by the
 designated authority while recording the final findings, also
 amounts to breach of the principles of natural justice. 37. It has been contended on behalf of the petitioners that
 the disclosure statement suffers from pre-determination,
 inasmuch as, the designated authority has already recorded its
 conclusions as regards whether or not definitive measures are
 required to be applied, which are conclusions that can be
 arrived at only at the stage of final findings, after considering Page 109 of 118 HC-NIC Page 109 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 the comments on the disclosure statement. As already
 discussed hereinabove, the disclosure statement is required to
 record only the essential facts which are necessary for the
 purpose of determining as to whether or not the definitive
 measures are required to be applied or not. The designated
 authority is required to record its conclusions on those facts
 but not its conclusions based upon those facts. The conclusion
 as to whether or not the definitive measures are required to be
 applied is a conclusion based upon the essential facts and
 hence, could not have found place in the disclosure statement.
 Besides as to whether or not definitive measures are required
 to be applied is a conclusion that has to be recorded after
 receipt of the comments on the disclosure statement. The
 conclusion recorded by the designated authority in the
 disclosure statement that levy of anti-dumping duty is no
 longer justified, amounts to arriving at a decision as to
 whether or not to apply definitive measures based upon
 essential facts recorded by it. The very fact that the
 designated authority without waiting for the comments on the
 disclosure statement has recorded its conclusions as to
 whether or not to apply definitive measures, is clearly
 indicative of the fact that the designated authority has already
 made up its mind prior to receipt and consideration of the
 comments of the parties to the disclosure statement. The
 learned counsel for the petitioners are therefore wholly
 justified in contending the disclosure statement suffers from
 pre-determination and that in view of the conclusions drawn in
 the disclosure statement, consideration of the comments of
 the petitioners in the final findings is mere lip service as the
 designated authority has already made up its mind at the
 stage of disclosure statement. 38. On the question of maintainability of these petitions on
 the ground of availability of an alternative statutory remedy,
 on behalf of the petitioners, it has been submitted that once
 the court has dealt with the aspect of maintainability and at
 that stage has held the petitions to be maintainable against
 the disclosure statement and the final findings and has
 admitted the matters, the question of examining the aspect of
 maintainability at the stage of final hearing would not arise.
 Reference was made to the order dated 27.01.2017 passed by
 the Supreme Court in the special leave petition filed by
 Hindustan Lever Limited against the interim order dated
 13.12.2016 passed by this court, to submit that the Supreme
 Court has not touched on the aspect of maintainability qua the
 disclosure statement and the final findings and has permitted
 them to raise the contention in view of the notification. It was
 contended that if the petition was maintainable at the stage of
 disclosure statement and final findings, the notification under
 rule 18 of the rules does not change the situation, as it is
 entirely based on the disclosure statement and final findings.
 Therefore, if the disclosure statement and the final findings are
 held to be vitiated, the petitioners need not even challenge the
 final notification. It was contended that the precedential value
 of the order passed at the first stage would operate as res
 judicata in respect of the disclosure statement and final
 findings, and hence, the ground of maintainability is purely
 academic. It was submitted that res judicata applies at
 different stages of the same proceedings. To bolster such
 submission, the learned counsel placed reliance upon the
 decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Barkat Ali v.
 Badrinarain, (2008) 4 SCC 615, wherein the court held thus: 14. In Arjun Singh v. Mohindra Kumar , AIR 1964 SC
 993,it was observed as follows: 15. In Satyadhyan Ghosal v. Deorajin Debi , AIR 1960 SC
 941, it was observed as follows: 38.1 It was further submitted that the Supreme Court, in the
 above order dated 27.01.2017, has not made any observations
 and that a subsequent fact, namely, the issuance of the
 notification under rule 18 of the rules, which occurs with the
 permission of the court cannot prejudice the petitioners. It was
 submitted that a petition which was maintainable at the
 admission stage, cannot be rendered non-maintainable by a
 subsequent fact, more importantly when the subsequent fact
 has been specifically permitted by the court. It was contended Page 112 of 118 HC-NIC Page 112 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 that the final notification was subject to the final outcome of
 the petitions and hence, the same cannot render the petitions
 non-maintainable. It was urged that an order passed to protect
 the time limit may not be construed as rendering the petitions
 non-maintainable. In support of such submissions, reliance was
 placed upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
 Dale & Carrington Invt. ( P) Ltd. v. P. K. Prathapan ,
 (2005) 1 SCC 212, wherein it has been held thus: 38.2 Insofar as the maintainability of the petition in view of an
 alternative statutory remedy of appeal against the notification
 issued by the Central Government is concerned, the scope of
 inquiry before the appellate authority would be the notification
 issued by the Central Government and the final findings on
 which the same is based. The appellate authority while
 considering the validity of the notification under section 18 of
 the Act, would not go into the validity or otherwise of the
 disclosure statement issued under rule 16 of the rules.
 Therefore, insofar as the challenge to the disclosure statement
 is concerned, as observed by this court in the interim order
 dated 13.12.2016, the petitioners do not have any alternative
 statutory remedy and the only remedy available is by way of a
 writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.
 Besides, the disclosure statement forms the foundation of the
 final findings and the final notification withdrawing the anti-
 dumping duty and when the foundation falls, everything
 construction thereupon also falls. Having regard to the fact
 that the principal challenge in the petitions is to the disclosure
 statement, the submission that in view of the notification
 issued by the Central Government against which there is a
 statutory remedy available, the court may not exercise its writ
 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India does
 not merit acceptance. For the reasons set out in the earlier
 order dated 13.12.2016, this court does not find any reason to
 relegate the petitioners to the alternative statutory remedy. In
 any case, breach of principles of natural justice has always
 been considered to be an exception to appellate remedies and Page 114 of 118 HC-NIC Page 114 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 hence, in view of the above findings recorded by this court
 regarding violation of the principles of natural justice at the
 stage of issuance of the disclosure statement as well as the
 final findings, it is not possible to say that these petitions are
 not maintainable. 39. As regards the nature of the ultimate relief that can be
 granted in the petitions, it has been submitted by the learned
 counsel for the petitioners that insofar as grant of relief is
 concerned, the breach of principles of natural justice would not
 terminate the proceedings once the prescribed schedule has
 been followed. It was submitted that if the court is convinced
 of a procedural flaw and remands the case, it would be
 restored to the stage at which it is remanded and the time
 limits would apply accordingly. The petitioners would have to
 face proceeding at the stage which it stands vitiated. In
 support of such submission, the learned counsel placed
 reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Director of Inspection of Income Tax (Investigation) v.
 Pooran Mal & Sons , (1975) 4 SCC 568, wherein it has been
 held thus: cises its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution. To
 hold otherwise would make the powers of courts under Article 226 wholly ineffective. The court in exercising its
 powers under Article 226 has to mould the remedy to
 suit the facts of a case. If in a particular case a court
 takes the view that the Income Tax Officer while passing
 an order under Section 132(5) did not give an adequate
 opportunity to the party concerned it should not be left
 with the only option of quashing it and putting the party
 at an advantage even though it may be satisfied that on
 the material before him the conclusion arrived at by the
 Income Tax Officer was correct or dismissing the petition
 because otherwise the party would get unfair advant-
 age. The power to quash an order under Article 226 can
 be exercised not merely when the order sought to be
 quashed is one made without jurisdiction in which case
 there can be no room for the same authority to be direc-
 ted to deal with it. But in the circumstances of a case
 the court might take the view that another authority has
 the jurisdiction to deal with the matter and may direct
 that authority to deal with it or where the order of the
 authority which has the jurisdiction is vitiated by circum-
 stances like failure to observe the principles of natural
 justice the court may quash the order and direct the au-
 thority to dispose of the matter afresh after giving the
 aggrieved party a reasonable opportunity of putting for-
 ward its case. Otherwise, it would mean that where a
 court quashes an order because the principles of natural
 justice have not been complied with it should not while
 passing that order permit the Tribunal or the authority to
 deal with it again irrespective of the merits of the case.
 A Division Bench of the Punjab High Court in CIT v.
 Ramesh Chander , 93 ITR 450, took the view that what
 the notified authority could do under Section 132(12) a
 court could do in writ proceedings. Though the observa-
 tion was obiter we consider that it is correct. In this con-
 nection we must refer to the decision of the Gujarat
 High Court, relied upon by the respondents, in Ramjibhai
 Kalidas v. I.G. Desai, ITO , 80 ITR 721. In that case it was
 held that Rule 112-A, which provides that a show-cause
 notice in respect of an inquiry under Section 132(5) is to
 be made within 15 days from the date of the seizure, is Page 116 of 118 HC-NIC Page 116 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017
 C/SCA/16426/2016 JUDGMENT

 mandatory and if that is not done no order under Sec-
 tion 132(5) can be passed. It seems to have been admit-
 ted before the Bench by the Advocate-General who ap-
 peared on behalf of the Revenue that he did not dispute
 that the period of ninety days prescribed under Section
 132(5) is a mandatory period. That decision is, there-
 fore, no authority for the proposition that the period
 fixed under Section 132(5) is mandatory. But even if it
 were the decision that Rule 112-A is also mandatory is
 clearly erroneous. When Section 132(5) permits an In-
 come Tax Officer to pass an order within ninety days
 that power cannot be in any way whittled down by a rule
 made under that section." 39.1 Reference was also made to the decision of the Supreme
 Court in the case of Bombay Metropolitan Region
 Development Authority v. Gokak Patel Volkart Ltd. ,
 (1995) 1 SCC 642, wherein it has been held that the period of
 time fixed for passing an order applies only to the initial order
 and not to any subsequent order that may have to be passed
 under the directions given by a statutory authority or by a
 court in a writ proceeding. The court held that, to hold
 otherwise would make the powers of courts under Article 226 wholly ineffective. The court in exercising its powers under Article 226 has to mould the remedy to suit the facts of a case. 39.2 Keeping in mind the principles propounded in the above
 decisions, the court having held that the disclosure statements
 stand vitiated for the detailed reasons set out hereinabove,
 would be required to set aside the disclosure statements as
 well as all proceedings pursuant thereto and restore the
 proceeding to the file of the designated authority for issuance
 of a fresh disclosure statement in accordance with law keeping
 in mind the observations made hereinabove. 40. For the foregoing reasons, the petitions succeed and are,
 accordingly, allowed. The impugned disclosure statements
 dated 14.09.2016 in all these petitions are hereby quashed
 and set aside. Consequently, the subsequent notifications
 notifying final findings as well as subsequent notifications
 issued by the Central Government under rule 18 of the rules
 are also quashed and set aside. The proceedings are restored
 to the file of the designated authority, who shall issue fresh
 disclosure statements, in consonance with the relevant
 statutory provisions and in the light of the observations made
 in this judgment. The designated authority shall complete the
 entire exercise, including the issuance of final findings, within a
 period of sixty days from the date of receipt of a copy of this
 judgment. Rule is made absolute accordingly in each of the
 petitions, with no order as to costs. (HARSHA DEVANI, J.)

 (A. S. SUPEHIA, J.)
 parmar* Page 118 of 118 HC-NIC Page 118 of 118 Created On Sun Aug 13 16:00:44 IST 2017