In yet another Aadhaar-based data leak case, the Andhra Pradesh police have arrested a member of an inter-state gang with a hard-disk containing a database of one lakh Aadhaar numbers and fingerprints, mobile phones, a scanner, a fingerprints device and a monitor, according to a report by The News Minute. The gang is mainly involved in cloning Aadhaar-linked finger prints to withdraw money from people’s bank accounts, a financial crime mainly related to the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System (AePS).

The AP police’s investigation revealed that the gang could get their hands on the fingerprints of people through “intermediary payment gateway apps for AePS,” the TNM report said. AePS is an NPCI-developed system for financial inclusion which enables transactions through Aadhaar authentication using just the bank name, Aadhaar number and fingerprint of the individual captured during enrolment.

The suspects then obtained the machines for cloning fingerprints and got access to the OTP required for siphoning off the money. They were able to loot at least 440 persons across various states without the knowledge of the individual account holders, the police informed. To understand how the fingerprints are cloned, check this report by MediaNama.

The 27-year-old arrested suspect Seshnath Viswakarma was tracked down in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh and the police is on the lookout for his accomplices, according to KKN Anburajan, the Superintendent of Police at Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh.

Why does this matter?

AePS is a significant component of the social welfare system linked to several government schemes where cash benefits are involved and are mainly aimed at benefiting the rural residents of India. Any leakage in the AePS will mainly expose these beneficiaries, who already face financial vulnerabilities, to the risks of losses without any immediate remedy.

As of November 2022, 75.4 crore bank accounts were linked with Aadhaar and 1549.8 crore transactions had been carried out through the AePS, according a report by the Centre. Further, Aadhaar has also been repeatedly pegged to be the foundational layer of the digital public infrastructure in India and its linkage to avail financial services have received greater impetus in the recent years.

Recurring problems with AePS, coupled with the government’s ignorance towards serious grievances related to misuse of Aadhaar, further compromise people’s biometric data and raise questions over the Indian governments’s claim that Aadhaar is a fool-proof system for identification.

Not the first time

This is not the first time the AePS has been used for looting people. In 2021 , the Haryana police busted a five-member gang who were allegedly involved in cloning fingerprints using the AePS to steal money from people’s accounts. They were arrested for their involvement in online fraud worth crores of rupees. In 2022 , the UP police arrested a customer service agent for cloning fingerprints of 165 people. The accused was able to “fraudulently” transfer Rs 15-20 lakhs from their accounts through the AePS.

In the AP case too, the police suspect a financial fraud worth crores of rupees. According to the AP police , the gang is already on the wanted list of the police in several states with 380 complaints lodged against them on the National Crime Records Bureau portal and 128 FIRs registered in different states.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event