SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Sex Toy India, I bought a penis sleeve from shaddy internet website in India.
DATE: 2017-07-27
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6pqyhu/sex_toy_india_i_bought_a_penis_sleeve_from_shaddy/

--- POST TEXT ---

First of all, Most of the website you see in the google search to buy sex toys in India are fraud except sexcare, imbesharam and thatspersonal. Even though you see 10–15 websites in your search results, they are all owned buy just couple of merchants. Always be very cautious before paying anybody. I had recently ordered a penis sleeve from ADULT SEXTOY INDIA (http://adultsextoyindia.com/). I talked to them on their website chat-box as well as on the whatsapp, They seem very helpful and respectful at the time of buying, they promised me certain product in certain size. I paid them using payumoney portal, they used www.indiasilk.in (http://indiasilk.in/) account to get the payment from me.

After 3 days, my shipment arrived, and when I opened it, the product wasn’t the one I ordered, I had paid Rs. 3550 and I totally different product which you can buy only for Rs. 600. When I called them and told them about it, they told me that one of their guy will call me from complaint department shortly like in 10 mins. I waited half an hour but no calls from them. So I called them 2 more times just to have a talk with a guy from the complaint department. Finally I had got a call from a guy of complaint department. He listened to me and asked me a ridiculously that Why have I bought if I didn’t like the product. I gave him my order number and send him the picture of product I had received, It took me 15 mins to explain him that I had got the completely different penis sleeve than what I had ordered, he told me that he would call me back in 10 mins after discussing it with their team or something. I waited another half an hour, then I called them again on their complaint department. Totally different guy picked up the phone and I had to explain everything all over again. They started being very rude with me. After talking to seven different guy in their complaint department, finally they arranged to pick up the product from me the next day by delhivery courier company. I had wasted 6 hours so far.

I returned it to the courier guy the next day. I called them and let them knew about the return. I asked them for refund. They declined it and asked me buy something else for that price. I kept asking them to send me a product which I was promissed or refund me the money. They said they didn’t have it anymore and I must choose something else from what they have, there is no option for refund. I had wasted another couple of hours. I went on payumoney website and reported fraud and explained them about what had happened, after 40 hours I got a reply from payumoney stating as below “Dear Customer, Greetings from PayUmoney!! Please be informed that PayUmoney is a payment aggregator who helps merchants and customers to do online transactions. We settle the amount to the merchant after every successful transaction. Only merchant is responsible for delivery of product &amp; services and provides refund/replacement.”

BEWARE OF SCAMS

TL,DR - paid Rs 3500 for a product, got totally different cheap product, wasted Rs 200 on phone calls to return it, Product was returned but NO REFUND. They said they don’t have that product anymore and I am being forced to buy something else.