1. By way of the present petition under Section 438 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the petitioner has prayed to
release him on anticipatory bail in case of his arrest in
connection with the FIR registered as C.R.No.11216007230386
of 2023 registered with Sector 21 Police Station, Gandhinagar for
the offences punishable u/s 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B of the
IPC. 2. Brief facts of the case are that police complaint is filed by
Mr. Veer Singh Babulal Dangi stating that present accused
person along with other co- accused persons had hatched a pre-
planned conspiracy and against the complainant and misused
his documents PAN card, Aadhaar card, photo etc. to opened
bank account in the Canara Bank Sector-16 Gandhinagar Page 1 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

branch in the name his firm, Om Catering by doing false
signature of complainant and done RY many bank transaction
without his knowledge and closed down the said bank account
without paying the GST on it and committed fraud with the
complainant. 3. Heard learned advocate Mr. Mehul Mehta for the petitioner,
learned advocate Mr. Ramnandan Singh for the complainant and
learned APP Ms. Asmita Patel for the State. 4. Learned advocate for the petitioner would submit that the
present petitioner is innocent; he is retired Class I government
officer and falsely implicated in the offence. He would further
submit that the petitioner has not played any active role in
commission of the offence. He would further submit that the FIR
is filed against the petitioner as pressurized tactics. According to
the FIR, the main accused is Rajeev Naidu, son of the present
petitioner. He would further submit that the petitioner is now
retired, however, he was Regional Director of the then Sports
Authority of India at the relevant time and thus, taking the
advantage of that aspect, he has been falsely involved in the
offence. He would further submit that the entire offence related
to the documents only and the documents are in custody of the
investigating officer. He would further submit that the petitioner
is not the beneficiary of the alleged transaction nor petitioner
has played any active role in opening the bank account with the
Canara bank and as such, has not misused the account of Om
catering fraudulently opened with the Canara Bank. He would
further submit that even otherwise Mr Vivek Sahu was Page 2 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

authorised by the partner of Om catering belongs to the first
informant to conduct and carry banking activity. He would
further submit that as per para 51, Annexure F, Om catering is
belonged to the complainant and one Mr Punit Agarwal and they
have authorised Mr Vivek Sahu to operate all the activities on
behalf of them. He would further submit that Mr. Vivek Sahu is
the main person who has played role in opening of the account
in Canara Bank by misusing documents like pan card, Aadhaar
card etc.

4.1 It is further submitted by learned advocate for the
petitioner that the petitioner is a senior citizen and is ready and
willing to join the investigation. Referring to page 45, he would
submit that though it is alleged that the petitioner has misused
the bank account and transferred money to purchase immovable
property at Nagpur, in fact, the execution of the agreement
indicates that the agreement was executed between Orange
Infrastructure Development and Mr Punit Agarwal, who is
partner of Om catering. He would further submit that, false
allegation of financial gain has been levelled against the
petitioner. 4.2 Referring to affidavit filed by the first informant, Learned
advocate for the petitioner would submit that the present FIR is
a counter blast to evade the liability of the GST authority. He
would further submit that the petitioner has never misused the
bank account of Om catering nor has got financial gain from it.
He would further submit that no forged document has ever been
created by the petitioner or submitted them as genuine. Upon Page 3 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

such submissions he request to allow this petition. 4.3 Learned advocate for the petitioner has also submitted that
the petitioner is ready and willing to join the investigation; he is
permanent residence of Nagpur; no flight-risk is there; the
petitioner is readily available as and when called by the
investigating officer. Thus, he submitted to grant pre-arrest bail
on condition to the petitioner. 5. Learned advocate Mr Ram Nandan Singh for the first
informant has taken this court through the affidavit in reply filed
by the first informant, more particularly page 79 onwards, to
submit that the petitioner is one of the gainers of the bank
account fraudulently opened in name of Om catering and he has
misused the bank account. He would further submit that the
petitioner was in charge of the Sports Authority of India when
Om catering was operating. The petitioner was having control
over the documents like pan card, Aadhaar card etc. of Om
catering and taking the copies of those documents, the petitioner
helped accused Nos.2 and 3 to open the bank account with the
Canara bank in name of Om catering. Thereafter, multiple
transactions involving in huge financial gain and financial
responsibility has been undertaken which ultimately called for to
pay the GST. 5.1 Referring to para 18 and 24 of the affidavit in reply,
learned advocate for the first informant would submit that a
clear contention has been made by the first information that
apart from the allegation of misuse, the Canara Bank account is Page 4 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

opened by using forged document. It is alleged that the
transaction of the amount has been carried in tune of
Rs.5,41,000/- to purchase LIC policy in name of Rahul Naidu,
brother of the petitioner and transaction of Rs.25 lakhs has been
taken place for purchasing farmhouse in name of the petitioner.
This contention is not denied by the petitioner by filing counter
affidavit. Thus, this contention indicates that the petitioner has
obtained financial gain by misusing the bank account opened
with the Canara bank using forged documents of Om catering.
Thus, he request to dismiss the petition. 6. Adopting the arguments of learning advocate, Mr Ram
Nandan Singh and joining with him, learned APP placed on
record the statement of the disputed bank account to submit
that on multiple times, the account has been misused by the
petitioner for personal gain. She would further submit that the
investigating officer has recorded statement of Mr Vivek Sahu
one of the accused and in that statement, he has clearly stated
that the present petitioner was the Regional Director of the
Sports Authority of India and has pressurized the officials of the
Canara bank to open the bank account in name of Om catering
on the forged documents. She would further submit that in view
of the statement of Mr Atul Ratnakar, it is established that the
petitioner has purchased farmhouse of 900 sq ft in the year
2012 for a sale consideration of Rs.25,00,000 and the same
amount has been transferred from the disputed bank account
from Gandhinagar. Thus, prima facie case is made out against
the present petitioner and custodial interrogation is required.
Upon submission, she requests to dismiss the petition. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined 7. Having heard learned advocates for both the parties, at the
outset, what appears that account in name of Om catering was
opened. It is undeniable aspect. It is also unable aspect that it
was not opened by the partner of Om catering but it has been
opened subsequently by using PAN card, Aadhaar card and
photos. This account was opened in the Canara bank in name of
Om catering. It also appears that cheque-book was also taken
from the Canara Bank qua said account. It also appears that
mobile number of Mr Rajeev Naidu was tendered while opening
the bank account in name of Om catering with the Canara bank.
It is also important to note that at that time, the petitioner was
the Regional Director of the Sports Authority of India and was
posted at Gandhinagar and that he was a Class I government
officer. It is specifically stated in the statement of Mr Vivek Sahu
that petitioner has pressurized the officials of the Canara bank
to open the account. From such statement, misuse of the power
is discernible. The power is misused to open the bank account in
name of Om catering for helping the petitioner's son and Mr.
Vivek Sahu. Undeniable aspect of multiple transactions involving
huge amount is also envision. Prima facie, it appears that in
name of the first informant and his partner, bank account in
name of Om catering was opened by placing forged documents
and huge transaction has taken place. The petitioner has played
active role therein. This issue therefore requires thorough
investigation. 8. It is an admitted position that the account opened with the
Canara bank was later on closed, but before that, multiple Page 6 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

transactions have been taken place by which the GST liability is
created. The statement of the witness recorded under section
161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 namely Mr Atul
Ratnakar also indicates that the petitioner has purchased the
farmhouse at Nagpur on the sale consideration of Rs.34 lakhs in
which Rs.25 lakh was paid through the account maintained in
name of Om catering which is stated to be a forged account.
Thus, it appears that the petitioner has misused his position and
not only helped his close relative Mr Rajeev Naidu in opening the
bank account in name of Om catering with Canara Bank, by
using the documents of Om catering which was lying with him
as early point of time, but also obtained financial gain from that
account. Thus, prima facie case is made out and the custodial
interrogation of the petitioner is required. 9. In case of Pratibha Manchanda and another Vs. State of
Haryana and another reported in (2023) 8 SCC 181, the Hon'ble
Apex Court in para 21, observed as under:- Keeping in mind the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Page 7 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/19331/2023 ORDER DATED: 18/01/2024

 undefined

Court in the case of (i) State Rep. by the CBI V/s Anil Sharma
reported in 1997 (7) SCC 187, (ii) Adri Dharan Das V/s State of
W.B. reported in 2005 (4) SCC 303 (iii) P. Chidambaram V/s
Directorate of Enforcement reported in AIR 2019 SC 4198,
wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held held as follows: Having regard to nature of allegations and stage of investigations,
 held investigating agency must be given sufficient freedom in
 process of investigation. Appellant not entitled to anticipatory bail as
 the same would hamper the investigation". 10. Resultantly, present petition fails and stands dismissed.
Notice discharged. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
SHEKHAR P. BARVE Page 9 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 19 20:43:14 IST 2024