1. These intra-court appeals impugn the common judgment dated 10 th May,

2013 of the learned Single Judge of this Court of dismissal of W.P.(C)

No.3036/2013 and W.P.(C) No.3058/2013 filed by the appellants respectively. 2. Notices of the appeals were issued and on 27th September, 2013, the

appeals were admitted to hearing. A counter affidavit has been filed in LPA

No.444/2013 and which has been adopted in the other appeal as well. We have

heard the counsel for the parties. 3. The writ petitions from which these appeals arise were filed, a)

impugning the two identical letters, both dated 8th April, 2013, of the Land and

Building Department of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi

(GNCTD) issued to the appellants respectively, informing them that their

request for separate alternative plots in lieu of acquired land had been rejected

on the ground that the acquired land had been purchased by the appellants

jointly along with some other persons; and, b) seeking a direction to the

respondents to allot separate alternative plots to each of the appellants against

the acquired land. It was inter alia the case of each of the appellants in the writ

petition filed by them:- LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 2 of 30 4. The learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petitions, finding/observing/

holding: 5. The counsel for the appellants has drawn our attention to the relevant

provisions of the Scheme which are as under: announced by Govt. of India, Ministry of Home Affairs vide
 their letter No.37/16/60-Delhi (i) dated 2nd May, 1961.

 This scheme is in force with effect from 2.5.61. The
 department has been inviting applications for grant of
 alternative plots through press advertisements from time to
 time. The plots are allotted by the D.D.A. on the
 recommendation of this department as per policy laid down in
 this regard by Govt. of Delhi. WHO IS ELIGIBLE? issue of notification u/s 4 of Land Acquisition Act. 2. The persons whose lands have been acquired must have
 received the compensation as rightful owners from the LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 5 of 30 LAC / Court and the Govt. has taken the possession of
 acquired land. 3. The applicants should not own a house / residential
 plot / flat out of village abadi in his / her dependent
 relation's name including unmarried children, nor he
 should be a member of any Co-operative Housing
 Society. 4. For awards announced prior to 3.4.86, the land
 acquired is not less than 150 sq. yds. and for awards
 announced post 3.4.86, the land must not be less than
 one bigha. The following conditions are also to be fulfilled in addition to
 above:- residential purpose pending the acquisition of his plot;
 alternative plot can be allotted to him if he produces a
 certificate from the MCD confirming that in the revised
 lay out of the colony, his plot is earmarked for a non- LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 7 of 30 resident purpose and that if he gives an undertaking in
 writing that he would not agitate the acquisition of his
 old plot and claims no additional plot in lieu thereof. 2. Where, as a result of clubbing of the shares of nearest
 blood relations, the area of the acquired land comes to
 150 sq. yds. or more, allotment of one plot can be made
 in their joint names. 3. Where a property is owned by a firm not being a
 registered company, the allotment of land would be
 made to individual partners in accordance with their
 share defined in the partnership deed subject to their
 fulfilling the prescribed condition. 4. Where an individual entered into contract for purchase
 of plots from certain insurance companies (which were
 subsequently taken over from the (LIC), the affected
 person would be considered for allotment of alternative
 plot if:- measures one bigha, alternative plot of 40 sq. yds. is to be allotted; where the

land acquired is above one bigha and upto five bighas, alternative plot ad-

measuring 80 sq. yds. is to be allotted; where the land acquired is above five LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 12 of 30 bighas and upto ten bighas, alternative plot ad-measuring 150 sq. yds. is to be

allotted; and, where the land acquired is above ten bighas, alternative plot ad-

measuring 250 sq. yds. is to be allotted. 10. We had during the hearing enquired from the counsel for the appellants

whether not acceptance of his argument that in the case of joint ownership

under one Sale Deed of acquired land, allotment of alternative plots is to be

separate to each of the owners, as per their respective shares, in the event of

acquired land being of say four bighas jointly owned by five persons each

having less than one bigha share, would result in none of the five being entitled

to any alternative plot though if considered jointly would have been entitled to

alternative plot ad-measuring 80 sq. yds. and whether not the same would result

in defeating the provisions of the Scheme which is a beneficial measure. 11. No answer was forthcoming from the counsel for the appellants. 12. The Scheme admittedly does not provide for allotment of separate plots

to persons jointly owing the acquired land. The Scheme, as noted by the

learned Single Judge also, is not under challenge. The only argument of the

appellants is that since under Clause III(3) of the Scheme, in the case of

ownership in the name of a partnership firm, partners are entitled to separate LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 13 of 30 alternative plots, similarly in the case of joint ownership, each of the joint

owners is entitled to allotment of separate plots of alternative land and unless it

is so done, it will result in discrimination. 13. The senior counsel for the respondents in this regard has stated that the

occasion for putting Clause III(3) into use has till date not arisen as no such

claim has been made. 14. We may notice that the counsel for the appellants also has not given any

instance of allotment of separate alternative plots of land to partners of a firm

owning land which was acquired. 15. A reading of Clause III(3) however does not unequivocally support the

contention of the counsel for the appellants that in the case of acquired land

being owned by a partnership firm, allotment of alternative plots of land is to

be made separately to each of the partners thereof. All that Clause III(3)

provides is that the allotment of land in such case would not be in the firm‟s

name but would be in the name of individual partners in accordance with their

share defined in the Partnership Deed. From a bare reading of Clause III(3) we

are unable to interpret the same as entitling the partners of a firm to allotment LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 14 of 30 of separate alternative plots. We however refrain from rendering any final

opinion on this aspect so as not to prejudice any claim made thereon. 16. Though the counsel for the appellants has not argued but we drew the

attention of the counsels to Clause III (supra) of the Scheme which provides for

"allotment to be made separately to all the legal heirs" in the event of the

recorded owner of the acquired land dying before the Notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act; however if the demise is after the

Notification all legal heirs are entitled to one plot of the size to which the

deceased would have been entitled to. The language thereof vis-à-vis two

situations is clearly suggestive of the allotment of alternative land in the event

of demise prior to the Notification being separately to each of the legal heirs

and in the event of demise after the Notification jointly to all the legal heirs.

We have enquired from the senior counsel for the respondents, the reason for

providing for separate allotment of alternative plot in the event of demise

before the Notification. We have further put to the senior counsel that as far as

we know, there is no provision for automatic partition of the land on demise of

the owner thereof and thus the legal heirs cannot be construed to be owners of

separate portions of the land. LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 15 of 30 17. The senior counsel stated that he has no instructions on the said aspect

and which has not been urged / pleaded. 18. We have also drawn the attention of the counsels to the concept of

„holding‟ applicable to agricultural land, with respect to acquisition whereof we

are dealing in these appeals. We have enquired, whether not the reference in

the Scheme to the size of the acquired land is in the context of „holding‟,

whether in the name of one or more person and not in the context of respective

shares in the holding. Agricultural land, insofar as the State of Delhi is

concerned, is generally governed by the provisions of the Delhi Land Reforms

Act, 1954 (Reforms Act). The Delhi Land Revenue Act, 1954 (Revenue Act)

lays down the law relating to land revenue and jurisdiction of Revenue Officers

in the State of Delhi. The former, in Section 3(11a) thereof defines „holding‟ as

a parcel or parcels of land held under one tenure, lease, engagement or grant

and in Section 3(22) defines „uneconomic holding‟ as a holding of less than

eight standard acres, which according to local conditions, is not sufficient to

maintain a family unit consisting of a person, his minor children, his wife or her

husband. There is no prohibition in law to more than one person having rights

in one holding. Section 33 of the Reforms Act dealing with „restrictions on

transfers by a bhumidhar‟, prohibits transfer as a result whereof the transferor LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 16 of 30 shall be left with less than eight standard acres of land in the Union Territory of

Delhi but further provides that a bhumidhar holding less than eight standard

acres of land is entitled to transfer the same provided such transfer is of the

entire land held by him. Section 55 of the Reforms Act enables a bhumidhar to

sue for partition of his holding and which is again suggestive of one holding of

land being owned by more than one person. To the same effect are the proviso

to Section 10(2) , the proviso to Section 36(1) and Section 42(1) of the said Act.

Section 123 of the Reforms Act provides that the land which shall be assessed

to land revenue shall be the aggregate holding area of bhumidhars in a village

in the year of record and Section 124 of the Reforms Act provides for

assessment of land revenue payable for a holding and Section 136 providing for

the „procedure for the recovery of an arrear of land revenue‟ also inter alia

provides for by attachment and sale of the holding in respect of which the

arrear is due. A further analysis of the two Acts and the Rules framed

thereunder shows that just like in urban municipal areas where the properties

are identified by a municipal number with a property having one municipal

number being a distinct identifiable unit, the „holding‟ is a unit of agricultural

land in village with the only difference being that while generally all

municipalities prohibit division of one property, size of a holding is variable. LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 17 of 30 19. Unfortunately, inspite of our prodding, neither counsels addressed on

the said aspect. 20. We have wondered whether on the basis of Clause III of the Scheme

(supra) providing for allotment to be made separately to all the legal heirs in the

event of recorded owner of the acquired land dying before the Notification for

acquisition, it can similarly be said that the joint owners also would similarly be

entitled to separate alternative lands or whether for the reason of joint owners

being discriminated against, the action of the respondents of refusing to allot

separate alternative plots to the appellants can be set aside. In this context, we

have further wondered whether the provisions of the Scheme (supra) are to be

interpreted on the same principles as a statute. 21. We find the Supreme Court, in Secretary, Ministry of Chemicals &

Fertilizers, Government of India Vs. Cipla Ltd. (2003) 7 SCC 1 dealing with

the drug policy, to have held that the contents of a policy document cannot be

read and interpreted as statutory provisions and that too much of legalism

cannot be imported in understanding the scope and meaning of the clauses

contained in policy formulations. Similarly it has been laid down in Desh

Bandhu Gupta and Co. Vs. Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd. (1979) 4

SCC 565 that contemporanea expositio i.e. the construction placed by the LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 18 of 30 administrative or executive officers charged with executing a statute, generally

should be clearly wrong before it is overturned. It has been further held that

such construction commonly referred to as practical construction, although not

controlling, is nevertheless entitled to considerable weight; it is highly

persuasive. The said principle was recently reiterated in Manohar Lal Sharma

Vs. The Principal Secretary MANU/SC/0727/2014 (commonly known as Coal

Block Allocation Scam case). Applying the said principle also, we are of the

view that the Scheme aforesaid should be interpreted in consonance with the

understanding thereof by the respondents who have made the said Scheme and

are responsible for implementation thereof. We may also add that we do not

find any case of discrimination also to have been made out on the basis of

Clause III (supra) of the Scheme. Clause III of the Scheme deals with a clearly

distinct situation. The heirs of a deceased become joint owners not by choice

but by inheritance. On the contrary, joint owners are joint, of their own

volition, having opted to hold a parcel of agricultural land jointly and to

continue to hold it jointly till the date of acquisition thereof though they had a

choice of suing for partition thereof. 22. We thus hold that the appellants‟ interpretation of the Scheme is not

acceptable. LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 19 of 30 23. We further find the question to be no longer res integra. We find a

reference, in the judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Rajinder

Kumar Vs. Union of India 57 (1995) DLT 271 also dealing with the said

Scheme, to a judgment dated 27th January, 1994 of the Supreme court in Civil

Appeals No.97 & 98 of 1992 titled Shiv Nath Sharma Vs. Union of India , as

laying down that when there were several claimants to a plot, one of the co-

sharers alone could not be held entitled to the plot in the absence of the other

co-sharers and that the Scheme did not envisage allotment of plots to each one

prorata of the land acquired and that the Scheme contemplates only one

allotment of plot to the owner whose land was acquired. We were however

unable to find the said judgment either on the website of the Supreme Court or

in any of the law journals. We finally requisitioned the file of Rajinder Kumar (supra) which has since been digitized and therein found a copy of the

judgment in Shiv Nath Sharma (supra) and find the same to be concerned with

a case, where a father having only 1/10th share equivalent to 2400 sq. yds. in

undivided 24 bighas of land which was acquired, having sold by a registered

Sale Deed, post the Notification for acquisition, to his son (appellant in the said

judgment ) who applied for allotment of alternative land. The Supreme Court

held: LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 20 of 30 24. The judgment of the Supreme Court in Shiv Nath Sharma (supra) arises

out of the judgment dated 28th November, 1984 of the Division Bench of this

Court in W.P.(C) No.532/1983. However a perusal thereof showed the same to LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 22 of 30 have merely relied upon the judgment of the same date in Krishan Kumar

Malik Vs. UOI reported as AIR 1985 Delhi 225, the challenge wherein was to

the rejection of the request for alternative plot on the ground of the petitioner

therein having purchased the land which was already notified under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. While dismissing the petition and

disagreeing with the judgment dated 22nd April, 1983 of a Division Bench of

this Court in W.P.(C) No.591/1982 titled Udai Raj Giri Vs. UOI , it was

reasoned as under: 25. We may clarify that the conflicting opinion of the Division Benches in

in Udai Raj Giri and in Krishan Kumar Malik (supra) on the aspect of

whether persons who have purchased the land after the Notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 was resolved by the judgment

of the Full Bench of this Court in Shiv Devi Vs. Lt. Governor AIR 1987

Delhi 46 in which it was held that such purchasers also are entitled to apply

for alternative plot. However the subsequent Division Bench of this Court in

judgment dated 24th August, 1990 in W.P.(C) No.2720/1990 titled Kulwant LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 24 of 30 Kaur Vs. UOI , dealing with a challenge to the modifications made in the

Scheme (supra) in the year 1989 entitling only those who were the recorded

owners on the date when Section 4 Notification was issued, negatived the

said challenge holding that the judgment of the Full Bench in Shiv Devi (supra) did not prevent the Government from varying the earlier Scheme

which was non-statutory. However another Division Bench of this Court in Jaswant Kaur Vs. Lt. Governor 65 (1997) DLT 512 referring to U.P. Jal

Nigam Lucknow Vs. Kalra Properties (P) Ltd., Lucknow (1996) 3 SCC

124, Yudu Nandan Garg Vs. State of Rajasthan (1996) 1 SCC 334, Sneh

Prabha Vs. State of U.P. ( 1996) 7 SCC 426 and Union of India Vs.

Shivkumar Bhargava (1995) 2 SCC 427 held the judgment of the Full

Bench of this Court in Shiv Devi (supra) even in respect of the Scheme as

stood prior to the modification in the year 1989 to be not good law;

resultantly, it was held that persons who have purchased the land after the Section 4 Notification have no right to apply for alternative land. 26. In Rajinder Kumar (supra) also, though finding that as per the size of

the acquired land, alternative plot ad-measuring 400 sq. yds. was to be

allotted but further finding that the applicant was of one of the two LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 25 of 30 successors of the owner of the acquired land, he was held entitled to a plot

size of 200 sq. yds. only. 27. The consistent view thus has been that persons who own a holding of

agricultural land which has been acquired, being together entitled to an

alternative plot and being not entitled to separate allotments of alternative

land. 28. We may however notice a judgment of the Single Judge of this Court

in Jagdish Vs. Government of NCT of Delhi MANU/DE/4550/2009 where

a holding of agricultural land admeasuring 7 bighas 3 biswas was acquired.

Seven persons having 1/7th share each i.e. equivalent to 1.0003 bigha each

were the recorded owners thereof. Each of them was offered alternative plot

ad-measuring 40 sq. yds. As per the applicable norms, alternative plot ad-

measuring, 40 sq. yds. for a holding of one bigha, 80 sq. yds. for a holding

above one bigha upto five bighas, 150 sq. yds. for a holding above five

bighas upto ten bighas, and of 250 sq. yds. for a holding of above ten bighas

was to be allotted. The petitioners in that case contended that since the share

of each was in excess of one bigha and since for a holding ad-measuring one

bigha to five bighas, the entitlement was 80 sq. yds., each of them was

entitled to alternative plot ad-measuring 80 sq. yds. It was held "that the LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 26 of 30 entitlements were based on the acquired land rather than who held it". It

was reasoned that if each of them was offered 40 sq. yds. of alternative plot,

the total land allotted to them would be 280 sq. yds. while on the other hand

for the holding of 7 bighas 3 biswas, they were jointly entitled to 150 sq.

yds. Thus, the claim of the petitioners for 80 sq. yds. was rejected. Though the said judgment does not deal with the issue whether allotment of

alternative land in such case is to be made jointly or separately but the same

nevertheless shows that the Government itself at least in the said case

offered separate allotments of alternative land even though the total land

allotted in such case exceeded the entitlement against the joint holding. 29. We, from Airports Authority of India Vs. Nirmala Devi 199 (2013)

DLT 373 also find that with respect to the acquisition of land in village

Nangal Dewat, the Airports Authority of India agreed to allotment of

separate alternative plots to legal heirs if their names appeared separately in

the survey report and naksha muntazamin in respect of distinct holdings and

if they had raised separate structures in separate holdings for which they

were given separate compensation. 30. It thus appears that the respondents, from time to time have been

making separate allotments to joint owners. 31. Though neither from the pleadings in the present case can the extent

of the joint holding or the status in the revenue records be known nor could

the counsels during the hearing inform categorically in that respect, however

it appeared during the hearing that if each of the appellants and their another

brother are made separate allotments of alternative land, the total size thereof

would be less than the size of alternative land to which the appellants

together would be entitled. We had for this reason only during the hearing

enquired from the senior counsel for the respondents as to why the

respondents could not accede to the request of the appellants for separate

allotments. However the senior counsel informed that the respondents,

besides the size of the alternative land are also concerned with the number of

plots of land which are available for alternative allotment and separate

alternative plots even if total admeasuring less than in the case of joint

allotment, may not be available. 32. Though we find the aforesaid explanation to be reasonable but are of

the view that the respondents, in the matter of consideration for allotment of

alternative plots of land in lieu of acquired land ought not to adopt a very

rigid stand. After all, the nature and character of alternative land allotted in

urban limits for residential purpose is entirely different from agricultural or LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 28 of 30 village land which is acquired. Compelling jointness in such urban

residential properties may have consequences on family ties. We are

therefore of the opinion that subject to the availability of requisite number of

plots for separate allotment and further subject to the total size thereof not

exceeding the entitlement against the joint holder, the respondents should,

wherever the joint owners so opt, consider the same. 33. Accordingly, we dispose of these appeals by holding that more than

one recorded owner of each parcel / holding of acquired land, under the

Scheme aforesaid, are not entitled to as a matter of right, separately apply for

allotment of alternative land and are entitled to joint allotment only. We

however further hold that if such joint owners are desirous of separate

allotments, they would be entitled to, in alternative to their application for

joint allotment, apply so and if the respondents find that the total land to be

so allotted in the case of separate allotments is not more than the alternative

land to which they would be jointly entitled to and further find that plots of

smaller sizes for separate allotments are available, the respondents would

consider the said request. LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 29 of 30 34. With the aforesaid observations, the appeals are disposed of. No costs. RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J. CHIEF JUSTICE
SEPTEMBER 18, 2014
„gsr‟ LPA Nos. 417/2013 & 444/2013 Page 30 of 30