Seeking the Court to enlarge the petitioner, who is

arrayed as accused No.1 in Crime No.2546 of 2024 of Cyber

Crime Police Station, Hyderabad, on bail, the present Criminal

Petition is filed. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 24.10.2024

received a complaint from de facto complainant stating that

she received a WhatsApp call from the cell number

8623956089. The caller claimed to be from the Mumbai Cyber

Crime unit and stated that her Aadhaar card was being

misused in various states, including Goa, Haryana, and

Punjab. It was alleged that her Aadhaar information was used

to obtain a Jio fiber network connection, which was involved

in illegal activities such as child trafficking, pornography, and

money fraud. The caller threatened her stating that she was a

suspect in a money fraud case and would be arrested if she

disconnected the call. SKS,J Crl.P.No.443 of 2025 3. Heard Sri Janardhan Sunkari, learned counsel for

petitioner, and Sri Syed Yasar Mamoon, learned Additional

Public Prosecutor appearing for respondent - State. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that even

if the allegations are taken as true, no prima facie case would

be made against the petitioner and that the allegations do not

constitute an offence against the petitioner as alleged in the

complaint. He further submitted that the petitioner denies his

involvement in the alleged offence and contended that the

allegations are false and an abuse of the legal process and

that the necessary ingredients for the alleged offence are not

present in the complaint, and no overt act is attributed to the

petitioner. Therefore, he prayed the Court to grant bail to the

petitioner by allowing this Criminal Petition. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor

submitted that the allegations leveled against the petitioner

are serious in nature, as such, granting of bail to the

petitioner, at this stage, does not arise. Further, the

investigation is not yet completed. Therefore, he prayed the

Court to dismiss the criminal petition. SKS,J Crl.P.No.443 of 2025 6. Having regard to the rival submissions made and on

going through the material placed on record, it is noted that

that the bank account of the petitioner was implicated in a

transaction resulting in a substantial financial loss of

Rs.3,21,000/- for the victim. Further, the said amount

remains unrecovered to date. Further, it is seen that the

petitioner has earlier filed a bail petition vide Crl.P.No.15477

of 2024 which was dismissed by this Court on 31.12.2024.

Therefore, it is pertinent to note that there are no changed

circumstances back then and now in the present case. Given

that the investigation is still ongoing, this Court is not inclined

to grant the relief as sought for. There are no merits in this

case and the same is liable to be dismissed. 7. Accordingly, this Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall stand

closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J

Date: 22.01.2025
PT