1 All the five accused persons have been sent up to face trial
by CBI for commission of offences as under: B IPC r/w Section 7 , 12 , 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of PC Act and
substantive offences under Sections 7 , 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of PC
Act. (iii) Accused Om Prakash, Ratan Singh and Sanjay Bajad
for offences under Section 120-B IPC r/w Section 7 , 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of PC Act. 2 For the sake of convenience, accused Puran Singh would be
referred to as A-1, Narender Singh as A-2, Om Prakash as A-3, Ratan
Singh as A-4 and Sanjay Bajad as A-5 in this judgment. BRIEF FACTS
3 A-1 was investigating officer of case FIR No. 803/99 PS
Defence Colony. He was posted in District Crime Cell (South District). Said case, being linked with Abdul Karim Telgi, related to investigation of
counterfeit stamps. While investigating aforesaid case, as per CBI, A-1
entered into criminal conspiracy with SI Gaurav Aggarwal and also with
said Abdul Karim Telgi, the object of which was to sell counterfeit stamps
of Government of India as genuine stamps to various business houses
and to deliberately keep Abdul Karim Telgi out of purview of investigation. 4 It would be noteworthy to mention here that present case
does not directly deal with the aspect of counterfeit stamps or Abdul
Karim Telgi as such. 5 According to the case of prosecution, while investigating
said case FIR No. 803/99, PS Defence Colony, A-1 visited office of M/s
Ranbaxy Laboratory Limited, Devika Tower, Nehru Place on 07.12.2000
and seized some documents from there and thereafter on 08.12.2000,
A-1 caught one Prahlad Singh, delivery boy of M/s Blue Star Services,
and consequent thereto, one more case was registered i.e. case FIR No.
878/00 PS Kalkaji, New Delhi. 6 It would be important to point out here that as per
prosecution, said M/s Blue Star Services was owned by A-2. 7 A-2 surrendered before the court on 05.01.2001 in
connection with the investigation related to case FIR No. 878/00 PS
Kalkaji. His police remand was taken by A-1 and he was taken to
Mumbai for investigation. A-3, A-4 & A-5 had also accompanied A-1.
Such police custody was to expire on 10.01.2001. It seems that transit
remand till 12.01.2001 from Mumbai court was obtained and police team
brought A-2 back to Delhi on 10.01.2001. 8 Now comes the real issue of concern. 9 While A-2 was in police custody, conspiracy was hatched by
all the public servants i.e. A-1, A-3, A-4 & A-5 in connivance with A-2 and
in furtherance of such criminal conspiracy, A-2 was taken to Corporation
Bank, CGO Complex Branch, Lodhi Road, New Delhi on 11.01.2001
where he withdrew a total sum of Rs. 8,55,000/- and such amount was
received by all the public servants-accused as illegal gratification. It was
paid voluntarily by A-2 so that M/s Blue Star Services was spared and
was not indicted in said case FIR No. 872/00 PS Kalkaji. Thus, the
motive for illegal gratification was not to implicate A-2 in the fake stamp
case. As per investigation, said amount was personally withdrawn by A-2
on 11.01.2001 from CGO Complex Branch of Corporation Bank when he
was in police custody but daily diary entry never revealed so. On the
other hand, in terms of conspiracy and as a fall out of consensual bribe,
A-2 was given full liberty and was permitted to move freely and even
permitted to stay at his residence during some period of police custody. 10 It would be also pertinent to mention that A-2 had moved an
application on 11.08.2004 praying therein that he wanted to disclose
certain facts and wanted to make statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
His confessional statement was recorded in which he claimed that A-1
had asked for money from him threatening that else there would be
serious consequences. He also disclosed that on 11.01.2001, in
desperation, he had withdrawn a sum of Rs. 8.55 lacs which was paid to
A-1 at his office in Nehru Place and also that he was never kept in lockup
or in any other confinement and was permitted to roam freely. 11 It is in these circumstances that all the accused persons have been
sent up to face trial. 12 Charge sheet was filed in the court on 31.01.2005 and
cognizance was taken on 16.05.2005. CHARGE
13 Vide order dated 15.5.2007, all the accused were ordered to
the charged for offences u/s 120 B r/w 7/12, 13 (1)(d) r/w 13 (2) of PC Act and A1 was also charged for the substantive offences u/s 7 , 13 (1) (d) r/w 13 (1) (2) of PC Act and A2 was charged for substantive offence u/s
12 of PC Act. All of them pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. PROSECUTION WITNESSES
14 Prosecution was directed to adduce evidence and has
examined 15 witnesses. Witnesses can be classified, category-wise as
under:- 15 Statements of accused u/s 313 Cr. P.C. were recorded by
the court. 16 As far as A-1 is concerned, he admitted that he was posted
in District Crime Cell during the relevant period and he also admitted
that he was investigating officer of case FIR no. 878/2000 PS Kalkaji.
He has also admitted that PC remand of A-2 was taken and he along
with his other co accused had left DCC office for Mumbai for
investigation on 6.1.2001 vide DD no. 27. He also does not dispute that
they returned from Mumbai on 10.1.2001 vide DD no. 24. As regards CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 6 of 40 withdrawal of money by A2 from Corporation Bank, it has been claimed
by A1 that A2 was never let off nor taken out nor allowed to be taken
out during the custody period and rather senior officers were visiting
Crime Cell for making inquiry in PS Kalkaji's case. Regarding the bank
documents and cheques, he has come up with the answer that all these
are manipulated. He claimed that he had been falsely implicated.
According to him, the investigation conducted by him revealed that
there was a separate network of fake stamps running parallel to Telgi
in which one Hemant Dubey was king pin and CBI, instead, hushed
up the scam unearthed by him. He also desired to lead evidence in his
defence and examined three witnesses in his defence. 17 DW1 Rajat Avasthi is from the Corporation Bank and he has
produced the certified copy of account opening form of bank account of
Hemant Dubey. DW2 Inspector Ashok Kumar has come from the
office of sanctioning authority with the relevant record pertaining to
sanction and DW3 Nikhlesh Partap Singh is Ahlmad in the court of Sh.
Sanjay Sharma, ACMM where another case pertaining to FIR no.
878/2000 PS Kalkaji now re-numbered as RC no. SIB-2004 E 0003 is
pending disposal. 18 In his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C., A2 admits that he had
surrendered and was taken to Mumbai and was brought back from
Mumbai. He also admitted that the total amount of Rs.8.55 lacs was
withdrawn from the bank account on 11.1.2001. According to him, that
day, he was sent to bank by A-1 and one unknown constable had
accompanied him. None of the accused had accompanied him to the
bank and according to him, he had been pressurized/forced to give
money to Puran Singh. He did not choose to lead any evidence in CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 7 of 40 defence. 19 Stand of remaining three accused is similar but somewhat
atypical as they have out rightly denied that they had ever gone to
Mumbai along with A1 while A2 was in police custody and have pleaded
their ignorance regarding withdrawal of any money by A2. They have
not examined anyone in their defence. CONTENTIONS OF CBI
20 Sh. Saxena has argued that prosecution has been able to
prove its case to the hilt. According to Sh. Saxena, A2 was owner of M/s
Blue Star Services and A1 had caught one Prahlad Singh who was
employee of M/s Blue Star Services and consequently FIR no.878/2000
PS Kalkaji was registered which was investigated by A1. According to
him, A2 had surrendered before the court and his PC was obtained and
he was taken to Mumbai by all his co accused and he was not kept in
any sort of confinement there and was given complete freedom and
when he was brought back to Delhi, he, willingly and gladly, withdrew
Rs.8.55 lacs from the bank accounts being maintained at Corporation
Bank, CGO Complex, New Delhi and handed over such amount to his
co-accused. At that time, A2 was in police custody and keeping in mind
the DD entries, statements of bank officers and the evidence led by the
prosecution, the only inference which can be legitimately drawn is that
A-2 had withdrawn that money and had given such money to his co
accused so that he is shown favour in case FIR no. 878/2000 PS
Kalkaji. It has also been argued that if intention of A-2 was genuine and
above-board, he would not have acceded to the request of A1. It has
also been argued that it is not made clear by A2 as to why he had chosen
to keep mum for such a long period. According to Sh. Saxena, when A2 CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 8 of 40 learnt that case had been transferred to CBI, he had no option but to
admit that he had made payment to his co accused but he tried to distort
the version. According to Sh. Saxena, there is nothing on record which
may even remotely suggest that A2 had given that amount of Rs.8.55
lacs to his co-accused under any sort of threat, fear or coercion. He
has also claimed that the direct and circumstantial evidence appearing
on record clearly indicates involvement of all the accused persons and it
stands proved that they all were co-conspirators. According to Sh.
Saxena, the part-hostile testimony of PW3 Inspector B. S. Jha or of PW5
Satish does not cause any dent to the case of the prosecution

 DEFENCE CONTENTIONS
21 Sh. V. P. Singh has defended A2. According to him, A2 is
rather a victim and sufferer who was first implicated in a false case and
then threatened and pressurized by police and was made to part with
Rs.8.55 lacs. According to Sh. Singh, as long as the case remained with
Delhi Police, A2 could not muster any courage to come up with truth
but when he was summoned by CBI, he felt that premier investigating
agency was upright and fair and, therefore, he, for the first time,
revealed all these crucial facts to CBI and the present case came to be
lodged on the basis of revelation made by him. According to him, if no
disclosure had been made by A2, there would not have been any such
case. According to Sh. Singh, it was a plain case of extortion of money
and A2 was made to pay to A1 under compelling circumstances. He was
never willing to pay any bribe and didn't seek any favour. He was only
apprehensive that in case he did not oblige A1 then A1 would further
implicate him. Sh. Singh has also contended that it is not a case of
conspiracy, abetment or instigation. Rather, earlier a false case was
cooked up by A1 with the connivance of Abdul Karim Telgi so that A-2 CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 9 of 40 who was dealing in genuine stamps is forced to close down his business
and thereby the business of forged stamps being run by Telgi flourishes
further. Written submissions have also been furnished by A-2. 22 Sh. Pawan Kumar has addressed arguments on behalf of
A3, A4 and A5. According to him, there is no evidence whatsoever on
record which may suggest that these three accused had, in fact, gone to
Mumbai along with A1 and A2. According to him, there is no legally
admissible evidence on record to such effect and even the DD entries
have not been proved in accordance with law and his clients cannot be
indicted on the basis of statements of co-accused. He has also relied
upon various judgments on this score which I would deal with at
appropriate stage. 23 Sh. Vivek Sood has vehemently defended A-1. According to
him, a strong prejudice has been created in the mind of court by CBI and
A-2. According to Sh. Sood, A-1 was very much fair, lawful, unbiased and
impartial while investigating the matter and rather the scam unearthed by
him was hushed up by CBI and in order to lend support to his such
contention, he has taken me through the evidence of complainant Jha.
He has also argued that CBI has deliberately held back Case Diary of
Kalkaji's case, Duty officer of DIU cell, one ct. Rajender Singh and key
bank officials. He has also expressed his surprise as to how the senior
bank officials were able to recall that A-2 had come to the bank
personally when they had no business to deal with the customers directly
for the purposes of encashment of cheques. It has also been contended
that A-2 was, all along, kept at DIU office at Nehru Place and was never
brought out. Alleged confessional statement of A-2 has also been
attacked on the ground that his such highly belated application, not even CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 10 of 40 sponsored by CBI, should not have been entertained and also that such
statement was even otherwise inadmissible in evidence. According to
him, A-2 was harbouring grudge against A-1 as his business had been
virtually ruined as his criminal activities were brought to the forefront and,
therefore, A-2 joined hands with CBI and has tried to implicate him. He
has also revealed his astonishment as to how the alleged amount
became Rs. 8.55 lacs from initial alleged amount of Rs. 2.95 lacs.
Sanction has also been labelled as mechanical and without application of
mind. He has finally argued that A-1 cannot be held guilty on the basis of
statement made by A-2 u/s 313 Cr.P.C. A-1 has also filed written
submissions. 24 I have given my thoughtful consideration to the rival
contentions and carefully perused the entire material available on record
and scrutinized the testimony of all the witnesses including defence
witnesses. 25 Let me go step by step. WHETHER A-1 WAS INVESTIGATING OFFICER OF CASE
 FIR NO.803/99 PS DEFENCE COUNSEL AND LATER ON OF
 CASE FIR NO. 878/00 PS KALKAJI

26 There does not seem to be any dispute with respect to
aforesaid fact. When statement of A-1 under Section 313 Cr.P.C. was
recorded, he admitted that he was entrusted with investigation of case
FIR No. 803/99 PS Defence Colony and then when he had laid trap and
caught one Prahlad Singh, another FIR No. 878/00 PS Kalkaji dated
08.12.2000 was also registered. Other accused persons have pleaded
their ignorance about such fact as is apparent from their respective CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 11 of 40 answers given whilst under examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Fact remains
that PW3 Sh. B.S. Jha, Inspector CBI has also categorically deposed that
said case FIR No. 878/00 PS Kalkaji was earlier being investigated by
A-1. He also admitted that previous case i.e. case FIR No. 803/99 PS
Defence Colony was also being investigated by A-1. Thus, there is no
qualm about said basic fact. WHETHER A-2 WAS TAKEN TO MUMBAI
 ON POLICE REMAND BY HIS CO-ACCUSED. 27 As per case of prosecution, A-2 had surrendered before the
Court on 05.01.2001 and his police custody was taken and pursuant to
such police custody remand, he was taken to Mumbai and duration of
police custody was from 05.01.2001 to 10.01.2001. 28 Startlingly, investigating agency did not consider it prudent to
place on record copy of remand application and also copy of the order
passed by learned Court granting police custody remand. Fortunately,
such fact has not been disputed by A-1 and A-2. A-1 has admitted in his
examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. that A-2 had surrendered on
05.01.2001 and that vide DD No. 27 dated 06.01.2001 made by him in
DD Register, all the accused left DIU office for Mumbai for investigation
of case FIR No. 878/00 PS Kalkaji. 29 DD Register has been proved by PW12 Insp. Rajiv Sharma.
He remained posted in DIU (South) during March, 2003 to February,
2004 and he has deposed that CBI official had met him in connection
with the present case and had demanded daily diaries and pursuant to
that he had handed over Daily Diary Register for the period 08.12.2000
to 31.01.2001. Such register has been proved as Ex. PW12/A. CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 12 of 40 Testimony of PW12 Insp. Rajiv is unrebutted and uncontroverted and no
objection was taken with respect to exhibition of register or the entries
contained therein and no question or suggestion was put to this witness
by anyone. 30 A-2 has also admitted that he was taken to Mumbai pursuant
to police custody remand. 31 It would be useful to reproduce DD No. 27 dated 06.01.2001
(Ex. PW12/A3). Such DD entry is in the hand of A-1 and bears his
signatures also. It reads as under: Permission for outstation has been obtained from
 DCP/SD." 32 Names of A-3, A-4 & A-5 have been specifically mentioned
in such DD. 33 For the reason best known to these three accused persons,
they have out-rightly denied such fact. According to them, it was wrong
that they had gone to Mumbai in connection with the aforesaid
investigation or returned from Mumbai. Sh. Pawan Kumar has argued
that there is no legally admissible evidence on record to the effect that all CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 13 of 40 these three accused had left for Mumbai. He has also argued that DDs
have not been properly proved as the maker has not entered into witness
box. He has also contended that admission or confession made by one
accused cannot bind the other. In this regard he has placed his reliance
upon various judgments which are as under: 34 He has also argued that answer given by one accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C. cannot adversely affect and bind other accused and in this
regard also, he has placed his reliance upon following judgments: 35 I have carefully gone through all the aforesaid judgments
and there is no doubt that any document is required to be proved in
accordance with law and mere production and exhibition of document CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 14 of 40 cannot be held to be proof of its contents. Execution of any document
has to be proved by admissible evidence i.e. by the evidence of those
persons who can vouchsafe for the truth of the facts in issue. Naturally,
in most of the cases, document has to be proved by the maker of the
document. However, Sh. Pawan Kumar has lost sight of one important
aspect of the case. Though A-3, A-4 & A-5 are accused in the present
case yet they are public servants also at the same time. Things would
have been different had they pleaded their ignorance or had tried to
avoid answers by claiming that they did not know about entries. Here,
they are coming up with very specific and definite answers. According to
them, they had never gone to Mumbai or returned from Mumbai in
connection with any police custody remand. It is not a question of there
being any evidence to that effect or not. They are taking up an
unambiguous stand before a criminal court. Answers given by them
under Section 313 Cr.P.C. have some legal relevance as well and not of
illusory value. They are not to take such questions casually. Public
servants are expected to reveal the truth, at least, with respect to their
official duties. Moreover, in the present case, the maker of the DD entry
is none other than A-1. Such DD is in his hand and bears his signatures.
He has no dispute over such fact. When DD Register was produced
before the Court, such DD entries were also proved by PW12 Insp. Rajiv
and no question or suggestion was put to him by any of these three
accused persons as testimony of PW12 Insp. Rajiv is completely
unrebutted and uncontroverted. 36 I am conscious of the aforesaid judgments cited by Sh.
Pawan Kumar on the point of effect of statement of one accused over the
other. 37 Section 30 Evidence Act provides that when more person
than one are tried jointly for same offence, and confession is made by
one of such persons affecting himself and his co-accused in the same
case, the Court may take into consideration such confession as against
the maker as well as against such co-accused. The basic principle
behind this provision is that if a person makes a confession implicating
himself, it would demonstrate that maker of confession is coming up with
truth. 38 Indubitably, it is also required to be borne in mind that Section 30 Evidence Act merely provides that confession of co-accused
can be taken into consideration but scope of such consideration is not
unlimited. It is rather very limited. If a confession is made by one person
implicating himself as well as his co-accused, such confession can only
be used to lend assurance to the other evidence against the co-accused.
If there is no other legally admissible evidence against such co-accused,
such co-accused cannot be convicted merely on the basis of
confessional statement coming from the mouth of his accomplice.
Though, Section 30 provides that the Court may take the confession into
consideration yet very clearly, there must be other evidence. The
confession is only one element in the consideration of all the facts proved
in the case; it can be put into the scale and weighed with the other
evidence. Reliance in this regard be made to Hari Chand Kurmi Vs.
State of Bihar AIR 1964 SC 1184 (supra). 39 In Haroom Haji v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1968
Supreme Court 832, it has been observed that a confession intended to
be used against a co-accused stands on a lower level than accomplice
evidence because the latter is at least tested by cross-examination whilst CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 16 of 40 the former is not. The confessions of co-accused are not evidence but if
there is other evidence on which a conviction can be based, they can be
referred to as lending some assurance to the verdict. 40 Reference be also made to one another judgment of Apex
Court titled as Kashmira Singh Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh AIR
1952 Supreme Court 159. In said judgment also, it has been observed
that confession coming from the mouth of another accused cannot be
made foundation of conviction and can only be used in support of other
evidence. Thus translating these principles into concrete terms, the
proper way to approach a case of this kind would be to first marshall the
evidence against the accused excluding the confession altogether from
consideration and to see whether, if it is believed, a conviction could
safely be based on it. If it is so capable independently of the confession,
then naturally it is not obligatory to seek support of such confession. But
where court is not entirely convinced from such other material, it can call
in aid the confession and use it to lend assurance to the other evidence
and thus fortify itself in believing what without the aid of the confession it
would not have been prepared to accept. 41 By virtue of entries contained in Ex PW 12/A, A-1 is not
making any sort of admission or confession. These are rather
affirmation of official act. Moreover, A-3, A-4 & A-5 have nowhere
specified as to if that they had not gone to Mumbai, where were they?
They are simply taking shelter behind the fact that there is no legally
admissible evidence on record and, therefore, they are justified in out-
rightly denying the fact of their being part of police team. Such answer
was least expected from them. If they claim that they had not gone to
Mumbai and that official entries are wrong, onus shifts on to them and CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 17 of 40 they are supposed to reveal as to where were they at that time? Such
fact has to be, then, in their special knowledge. Their cursory denial
does not serve any purpose at all. Keeping in mind the fact that maker
has not disputed the aforesaid entry, unrebutted testimony of PW12 and
the fact that no material has been produced by A-3, A-4 & A-5 showing
that they were in Delhi and had not gone to Mumbai, it would not be
possible, by any stretch of imagination, to hold that they had not gone to
Mumbai. 42 As I have already noticed above, perhaps the remand given
by the Court at Delhi was till 10.01.2001. I am using work 'perhaps'
because application seeking remand and order of court have not been
placed on record. It seems that transit remand/journey remand was
sought from Mumbai Court and Court at Mumbai had given journey
remand till 12.01.2001. Again, CBI did not find any necessity of placing
on record such order or the application moved by A-1 in this regard or
copy thereof. Fortunately, this fact is also not in dispute as A-1 has
categorically admitted that they had returned from Mumbai on
10.01.2001 and then DD No. 24 was recorded on 10.01.2001 at 9.30 PM
and such DD has been proved as Ex. PW12/A4. It is also in the hand of
A-1 and signed by him. It reads as under: Detailed investigation will be mentioned in the CDs.
 Both the accused have been kept in DCC office in
 the supervision of HC Om Prakash and Ct. Sanjay,
 Ratan Singh and Rajinder Singh. Sr. Officers have
 already been informed of the arrest of accused
 Bangali. Further investigation is continued. 43 I may reiterate that factum of taking away of A-2 by police
team to Mumbai and returning back to Delhi is not really in issue. 44 We are concerned as to what had happened on 11.01.2001. 45 Needless to say that since transit/journey remand was upto
12.01.2001, even on 11.01.2001 A-2 was in custody of police. He had
not been bailed out by any court. WHETHER A-2 WENT TO BANK ON 11.01.2001
 AND HAD WITHDRAWN RS. 8.55 LACS. 46 This fact has been sought to be proved by CBI through bank
officials. I have seen the testimony of PW1 Sh. A. Ratnakar Pai and
PW2 Sh. Virender Kumar Aggarwal. PW1 A. Ratnakar Pai was manager
with Corporation Bank, CGO Complex Branch at the relevant time. According to him, he recognized those persons by name and face who
were regular customers and having their accounts in his aforesaid bank.
M/s Blue Star Ltd. also had an account in CGO Complex Branch and
accused Narinder Singh i.e. A-2 was operating that account. He also
identified A-1 claiming that A-1 had come to the bank for getting account
of M/s Blue Star frozen and on the request of A-1, he had frozen account
of M/s Blue Star. As regards 11.01.2001, he has deposed that he was on
duty at Corporation Bank branch and that day, accused Narender Singh
i.e. A-2 had come to the bank and met him also. 47 It would be pertinent to mention that according to
prosecution, five cheques were presented in the bank and total amount
of Rs. 8.55 lacs was given to A-2 towards the aforesaid cheques. Details
of these cheques are as under: 48 All these cheques are self cheques and the amount under
such cheques were received by A-2. On first cheque, his signatures are
there on reverse at Q11 and Q12. Similarly, on other cheques also, his
signatures are there on Q13, Q15, Q16, Q17 & Q18. Such signatures
acknowledge receipt of amount under respective cheques. 49 A-2 himself admits such fact. 50 In his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. he admitted that
he had gone to the bank and had presented such cheques and had
collected the payment. All the cheques were presented together as
common token no. i.e. Token No. 35 was given under which all the five
cheques were presented and, therefore, only on all such five cheques,
T-35/5 is mentioned in front. PW1 Sh. A. Ratnakar Pai has also thrown
light on this aspect and has deposed that endorsement T-35/5 meant that
Token No. 35 had been jointly issued for all such five cheques. He has
also deposed that payment of Rs. 8.55 lacs was received by accused
Narender Singh himself. This is very important but surprisingly, other
three accused i.e. A-3, A-4 & A-5 did not confront this witness with
respect to presence of A-2 in the bank. Presence of A-2 at Corporation
Bank, CGO Complex Branch was unaccounted and apparently
unauthorized. There is no official record/entry showing that on
11.01.2001 he was brought to Corporation Bank or was permitted to go
to Corporation Bank to withdraw the money. He was all along under the
police custody and he, therefore, must have been taken to bank by the
officials who were having his custody or with their consent. 51 I have seen testimony of PW2 V.K. Aggarwal also. He has
also deposed that he had seen Narender Singh i.e. A-2 on 11.01.2001 in
the bank who had wished him. Again, counsel for A-3, A-4 & A-5 did not
put any question to this witness either which means that they do not
dispute the fact that A-2 had come to the bank that day for withdrawing
money. 52 Sh. Sood has contended that it would be hardly believable
that senior ranked officer would be distinctly remembering the fact that
A-2 had come that day to collect the payment. According to him, CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 21 of 40 concerned cashier, who had disbursed the payment, was the best
witness but for reason best known to investigating agency, such cashier
has neither been cited nor called as witness. 53 I am, however, of the view that non-examination of cashier
does not create any sort of adverse impact over the case of CBI. The
situation of present case is somewhat typical as one other account of A-2
had already been frozen as per instructions of A-1 and when A-2 had
come to the bank, he had met PW1. PW1 has deposed that he had also
telephonically apprised A-1 that A-2 had come for withdrawal of the
cheques and he (A-1) had replied that such payment should be made.
Thus, the payment was not going to be made without the consent of
senior bank officials. Rather all the cheques were finally cleared by the
senior bank officials. Cashier would not have been able to throw desired
light qua the identity of receiver of payment. A-2 admits his signatures
on the reverse of cheques. Such fact has also been scientifically
established as is apparent from the report of handwriting expert. 54 Handwriting expert has entered into witness box. I have
seen testimony of PW6 Sh. S.L. Mukhi very carefully. His testimony is
again unrebutted and uncontroverted and as per his testimony and
report, he came to the conclusion that handwriting evidence pointed that
writer of specimen handwriting and signatures Mark S41 to S110 being
the person responsible for writing the questioned writing and signatures
Marked Q5 to Q18. S41 to S110 contain specimen handwriting of A-2
Narender Singh proved as Ex. PW5/1 to Ex. PW5/70. Such specimen
handwritings had been taken in the presence of PW5 Pradeep Grover
and testimony of PW5 Pradeep Grover is again unrebutted and
uncontroverted. I need not remind myself that Q5 to Q18 are the CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 22 of 40 handwritings and signatures appearing on the cheques and as per the
case of prosecution, acknowledgment on the reverse is that of A-2. 55 Moreover, PW1 A. Ratnakar Pai has categorically claimed in
his cross-examination dated 16.08.2007 that even if a self cheque is
brought by a person for encashment/collecting payment and even if the
signatures of account holder appear on the back of the cheque yet the
person, who has to collect the amount under such cheque, is required to
sign on the back of the cheque and cashier takes signatures of such
person who collects the payment. Signatures of A-2 appear on the
reverse of all the cheques. He himself also admits such fact. I am of the
view that it really does not matter even if concerned cashier has not been
cited as witness and it does not reflect any malafide on the part of
investigating agency either. 56 Relevant documents pertaining to said account i.e. account
opening form and statement of account etc. have also been duly proved.
Bank record contains entries made in normal course of banking. There
is no question of manipulation of these entries. No animosity has either
been suggested to bank officials. Public servants/accused have not
made it clear as to why such bank officials would depose falsely and
would try to implicate them. Thus, it becomes very apparent from the
testimony of bank officials PW1 A. Ratnakar Pai and PW2 V.K. Aggarwal
that A-2 had come to the bank on 11.01.2001 and by virtue of
presentation of aforesaid five cheques, he had withdrawn a total sum of
Rs. 8.55 lacs. 57 Thus the presence of A-2 at bank on 11.01.2001 stands
established. WHETHER A-2 HAD GONE TO THE BANK ALONE. 58 Some facts can be proved by direct evidence. Some are to
be deduced and deciphered from the attendant circumstances. Later is
known as circumstantial evidence. There cannot be direct evidence for
each and every fact in any criminal trial. It is very much apparent that
A-2 was in police custody. He had been brought back to Delhi and must
have been or should have been lodged in DIU office at Nehru Place and
was supposed to be produced before the Court as early as possible.
Nobody knows as to why he was not produced before the Court at Delhi
on 11.01.2001. Merely because police was having transit remand up to
12.01.2001 does not mean that it could have kept the accused with it till
12.01.2001. Keeping any person in police custody is for a very limited
purpose. This is to facilitate the investigation and for collection of
evidence. It's nobody's case that A-2 was ever taken anywhere for any
investigation or collection of evidence in Delhi and return from Mumbai
and, therefore, there was no reason for not producing him before the
Court on 11.01.2001 itself. 59 Be that as it may, fact remains that since there was transit
remand, A-2 was supposed to be under the direct custody and
supervision of A-1. I need not remind myself about the provision
contained under Section 167 Cr.P.C. It is universally known fact that
police custody remand is granted to a police official not below the rank of
Sub-Inspector. Such provision has been made because official of a
senior rank has better understanding and experience and it is expected
that he would follow the rules as well. Remand from Delhi Court was
sought by A-1, being in the rank of Inspector. His request was acceded
to. He must have taken A-3, A-4 & A-5 with him to Mumbai but these
other police officials had accompanied him for limited purpose i.e. for CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 24 of 40 escort and security. They were not supposed to participate actively in the
investigation. Similarly, transit remand from Mumbai Court would have
also been given on the request of A-1 who brought A-2 back to Delhi and
it was his exclusive duty to keep A-2 under proper care and custody till
he was produced before the Court. All the movements of A-2 were under
the unswerving control of A-1. A-2 had no authority to be in motion
except with the knowledge or consent of A-1. Even if it is assumed that
he was left at DIU Cell at the mercy of A-3, A-4 & A-5 besides one Ct.
Rajender Singh, the direct control over the movements of A-2 was of
none other than A-1. 60 Presence of A-1 at the bank suggests that either he was
brought to the bank by A-1 or A-1 permitted him to go to the bank. 61 PW1 Sh. A. Ratnakar Pai has categorically deposed that
when A-2 had come for withdrawal of money, he had made a call to A-1
Puran Singh and told him about the visit of A-2 Narinder Singh who
wanted to withdraw the money and then Puran Singh (A-1) told Sh. Pai
that money be paid to him. A-1 was not taken by surprise when he was
informed so by the bank manager. Rather he told the bank manager to
permit withdrawal. Probably, all the liberties in the world had been given
to A-2 which was in gross abuse of powers of the police officials and in
utter violation of the orders of the Court. I do not have much evidence
on this score but if I refer to the statement made by A-2 under Section
164 Cr.P.C., it would appear that police team had made a mockery of the
order of grant of police custody. If such statement of A-2 is to be
believed then A-2 was taken to Mumbai in Rajdhani Express by three
constables only and A-1 himself landed Mumbai next day by air. These
constables, naturally below the rank of Sub-Inspector, were totally CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 25 of 40 incompetent to take any person on police remand. As per A-2 Narender
Singh, he was not taken anywhere in Mumbai and was rather set free to
roam here and there in Mumbai. According to him, he was brought back
to Delhi by A-1 by air and then he went to his home while Insp. Puran
Singh (A-1) went his way. According to him, thereafter on 11.01.2001 he
had withdrawn the money and such amount of Rs. 8.55 lacs in cash was
paid by him to Insp. Puran Singh at his office in Nehru Place and he was
never kept in lockup or in any other confinement and he was free to go
anywhere. 62 There is nothing before me to indicate the exact mode
of journey of all the members of the police team and accused but
there has to be a proper streamlined system depicting complete
transparency and accountability. Any such police team, having
order of the court and custody of accused on police remand, is
duty-bound to reveal and divulge complete details with respect to
their visits, mode of transit, purchase of tickets, accommodation
etc. Merely because police remand has been given does not mean
that police is at liberty to do whatever it wants to do without giving
any detail with respect to said aspects. After all, such remand is by
virtue of the order passed by the Court and for all purposes,
person, given to the police custody, is still considered to be under
the supervision of the Court. I do not know whether such tickets-
whether air-tickets or train-tickets were provided by the department
or whether those were purchased by the police team and whether
they had sought any reimbursement or not. But, the picture
portrayed before me is very gloomy and ominous. There is
pressing need of precision and transparency more so when any
person is taken out on police custody. In many cases, atrocities CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 26 of 40 upon accused have been reported during the period of police
custody only. In the garb of police custody, police officer cannot be
allowed to do whatever he wants to do. His job is limited to the
investigation and he is supposed to maintain complete control over
such accused and to record all such details in case diary as well. 63 In order to find out clear-cut position, I had to call for aid of
case-diary. It was prepared by A-1. It has, however, baffled me further.
It, in fact, reveals that A-1 had gone to Mumbai by air separately and rest
of the accused by Rajdhani. It also reveals that on 10.01.2001, A-3, A-4
and A-5 along with newly arrested accused Jai Kishan Bengali departed
for Delhi by train leaving A-1 and A-2 in Mumbai. Then A-1 prayed for
extension of PC for another two days from Mumbai court which he got.
Case-diary dated 10.01.2001 nowhere shows that they had also left for
Delhi that day. Rather Case-diary of 11.01.2001 depicts that it was on
11.01.2001 that they both had returned to Delhi and then they reached
DIU office. This fact is certainly going to have great bearing over the
alleged involvement of A-3, A-4 and A-5

64 Sh. Sood has contended that statement made by A-2 under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is motivated and, therefore, cannot be relied up.
Even if I ignore such statement for a moment, would A-1 explain as to
under what circumstances A-2 was found in the bank on 11.01.2001?
His simple stand is that A-2 was not taken anywhere but the bank
officials have deposed to the contrary and according to both the material
bank officials, A-2 had himself had come to the bank and had met them.
Thus, A-1 cannot run and shy away from shouldering his responsibility
and it has to be necessarily inferred and held that A-2 had gone to the
bank with the knowledge and consent of A-1 and it really does not matter CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 27 of 40 whether A-1 was physically accompanying him or not. WHERE THAT AMOUNT HAS GONE
65 According to A-2, he had given that amount to A-1. This is
the consistent stand which he took when he made statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. and finally u/s 313 Cr.P.C. 66 Sh. Sood has contended that such statement made by co-
accused cannot bind him. 67 I again refer to the deposition of said two material bank
officials. They both have testified that A-1 had come to the bank
personally. As per Sh. Pai, he had enquired from A-1 on phone whether
such payment was to be made or not and as already discussed above,
A-1 permitted withdrawal of such money. Thus, A-1 knew that A-2 had
come to the bank for withdrawal of money. Keeping in mind the evidence
of the bank official and the overall facts and circumstances, this Court
can easily lend some sort of reassurance from the statement of A-2.
Thus, money so withdrawn was pocketed by A-1 only. WHETHER SUCH MONEY WAS GIVEN VOLUNTARILY
 OR
 WHETHER UNDER ANY SORT OF EXTORTION OR THREAT. 68 It has been argued by Sh. V.P. Singh that A-2 was rather a
victim as he was threatened that if he did not oblige the police then he
would be implicated in various other matters and, therefore, under such
threat, A-2 had withdrawn money from the bank and had given the same
to A-1. In this regard, it would be useful to see the application which A-2
had moved before the Court. 69 His such application has been proved as Ex. PW9/1. In his
such application, he merely claimed that during PC, IO Insp. Puran Singh
wanted him to pay bribe for not charge-sheeting him and for facilitating
free life. He did not make even a whisper in such application that he had
to give money under threat or force. It rather reaffirms that it was
consensual bribe. Moreover, there is no reason offered by him as to why
he held back such fact for so long. A-2 had gone to the bank and had
withdrawn money on 11.01.2001 and gave the same to A-1 immediately.
It was only on 11.08.2004 that he moved application praying for
recording of his confessional statement. There is no elucidation as to
why he did not reveal such a vital fact for three years. Sh. Singh has
contended that he could not muster enough courage but when the case
was transferred to CBI, he felt that there would be fair investigation and,
therefore, disclosed the aforesaid fact for the first time. I am, however,
not impressed with such contention. His keeping mum for three years
rather shows that he was a willing bribe payer. He naturally expected
that if he obliges A-1, there would be reciprocal favour and the cases
against him would be closed or diluted. 70 Sh. Sood has, however, contended that a strong prejudice
has been created in the mind of the Court by CBI and A-2. According to
him, A-1 was investigating the matter lawfully and properly and rather the
scam unearthed by him was illegally hushed up by CBI. According to
him, CBI has turned the case upside down and has tried to fix A-1 and
has projected that investigation conducted by Puran Singh was faulty. It
has been argued that no favour was shown by A-1 to A-2 at any point of
time which itself suggests and implies that no money was ever
demanded or received. It has also been argued that on the other hand,
A-2 had strong nexus with the bank officials and he had been able to CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 29 of 40 manipulate the bank record in order to take revenge. 71 Let me not go into insignificant detail with respect to the fact
whether investigation earlier conducted by Puran Singh in Kalkaji's case
was motivated or not. Such fact is practically beyond the scope of the
present controversy. Suffice it to say that at the relevant time, A-1 was
IO of the case of PS Kalkaji and was in position to show undue favour to
A-2. 72 Sh. Singh has argued that a person who is coerced to pay
bribe is not accomplice. In this regard he has relied upon one judgment
cited as Kamini Kumar Deb Barma Vs. State AIR 1971 Tripura 26 and
Dalpat Singh & Anr. Vs. State of Rajasthan 1969 AIR 1969 SC 17.
There cannot be any issue with respect to said fact. However, in the
present case, A-2 has not been shown as accomplice. He has not been
cited as witness here. He is rather accused. Moreover, he has come up
with a false story that money was extorted from him. His such stand was
discarded by the investigating agency and he was, therefore, made
accused as he was found to be willing bribe payer. In such a peculiar
situation, defence cannot dig out any advantage from the aforesaid
judgments

73 Undoubtedly, when FIR (Ex.15/1) was initially registered, it
was mentioned in the FIR that Puran Singh had accepted illegal
gratification and had abused his position as police officer to obtain
wrongful gain to himself and had demanded and accepted Rs. 2,95,000/-
from Narender Singh by allowing him to withdraw the amount by four
cheques from the Corporation Bank. Sh. Sood has expressed his
surprise as to how such amount stood converted from Rs. 2,95,000/- to CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 30 of 40 Rs. 8.55 lacs. I do not find any substantial reason to feel such
astonishment. I need not remind myself that FIR is not supposed to be
encyclopedia of the facts of the case. It is rather starting step of the
investigation. As per initial investigation, case related to withdrawal of
four cheques but during comprehensive investigation, it was learnt that
there were total five cheques. One fifth cheque issued by Khan Chand
(father of A-2) was not within the knowledge of the investigating agency
at the time of lodging of FIR. I have already discussed above that all the
cheques were presented together and the payment was released under
one token no. i.e. T-35. Thus, defence cannot dig out any advantage out
of aforesaid fact. Undoubtedly, Khan Chand has not been cited as
witness but that does not mean that cheque issued by him has to be
excluded from the scope of consideration. Bank record stands duly
proved. Statements of bank officials also clearly speak about such fifth
cheque issued by Khan Chand and moreover the statement of A-2
himself cannot be forgotten. 74 Sh. Sood has taken me through the exhaustive cross-
examination of PW3 Insp. B.S. Jha who happens to be the complainant
in the present case. He has also read out the testimony of PW15 Dy. SP
Vijay Kumar Shukla who happens to be the final IO of the present case.
He has made a contention before the Court that A-1 was very much
sincere while investigating the case of Defence Colony and Kalkaji and
did not yield to any sort of pressure and had rather unearthed a big scam
showing that one Hemant Dubey was running a parallel scam of fake
stamps. According to him, when A-2 was brought back from Mumbai and
was lodged in the office of DIU at Nehru Place, several senior officers
visited DIU office and made exhaustive interrogation from A-2 as well as
one other accused i.e. Jai Kishan Bengali and it was not possible for CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 31 of 40 anyone to take out A-2 from DIU office on 11.01.2001. According to him,
A-1 wanted to go to the root of the matter and wanted to nail down
Hemant Dubey. However, such fact was hushed up by CBI as CBI never
wanted so and, therefore, Hemant Dubey was cited as prosecution
witness in RC No. 2/2003. According to him, no one had made any sort
of complaint against alleged defective and malafide investigation
conducted by A-1. According to him, on the other hand, A-2 was the real
mastermind of manipulation and he had free access to the bank and had
manipulated the bank record also. He has also contended that nexus
between him and bank officials is manifest as one current account no.
1147 was opened in the name of Hemant Dubey by Prahlad Singh as on
such account opening form, photo of Prahlad was pasted and such
account had been introduced by Narinder Singh i.e. A-2 which clearly
depicts the nexus between A-2, Prahlad and bank officials. 75 I do not find much force in such defence contention as such
aspect is not having much bearing over the present case. I would also
like to re-stress that when PW1 A. Ratnakar Pai had entered into witness
box, he categorically deposed that he had met A-2 on 11.01.2001 in the
bank. This fact was not sought to be disputed by the A-1 as no
suggestion, to the contrary, was put to him. This rather indicates that
even A-1 does not dispute that A-2 was found in the bank on 11.01.2001. 76 I am conscious of the fact that when complainant Insp. B.S.
Jha entered into witness box and was grilled by defence, he, in his cross-
examination dated 14.12.2009, revealed that A-2 i.e. Narinder Singh had
told him that he was threatened and terrorized by Puran Singh (A-1) not
to disclose the fact that he was forced by him to withdraw the money
from the bank. Sh. Singh had attempted to dig out a huge mileage out of CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 32 of 40 the aforesaid fact. However, I have already discussed above that there
is no explanation coming from the side of A-2 as to why did he sleep over
the matter and did not disclose about his giving money to A-1. If at all he
had been pressurized or forced to give bribe to A-1, it was expected that
he would have spilled the beans at the earliest and would not have
waited for three long years. However, nothing of that sort was done by
him and he chose to relax merrily instead of reporting to anyone. It
rather depicts that he had voluntarily and willing made payment to A-1 so
that A-1 shows him undue favour. Naturally, A-1 was in a position to
show him favour as he was at the helm of the affairs being IO of the
case. 77 Defence has again tried to dig out some advantage from the
hostile testimony of PW4 Satish Kumar. He happens to be cousin of A-2.
He did not support the case of prosecution but fact remains that in his
cross-examination, he admitted that accused Narinder Singh had told
him that he had given money to the police personnel. Thus, it becomes
very much apparent and manifest that amount so withdrawn by A-2 was
voluntarily given by him to A-1. WHETHER SANCTION IS VALID OR NOT
78 It has been argued that since the alleged confessional
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was never shown to the sanctioning
authority, sanction has no validity. I have carefully gone through the
testimony of PW14 Ms. Kanwal Jeet Deol. She has deposed that she
had been posted in Delhi Police in various capacities including Joint
Commissioner of Police, Delhi and she was competent authority to
remove any officer up to the rank of Inspector while posted as aforesaid.
She also claimed that DCP was competent authority to remove Head CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 33 of 40 Constables and Constables in Delhi and since Joint Commissioner of
Police was an officer senior to DCP, she was competent to remove Head
Constables and Constables too and thus could accord sanction against
them also. She has proved sanction order (D-1) as Ex. PW14/A and has
deposed that she had gone through the investigation file of CBI along
with material documents like CD, statement of witnesses and after
perusal of the same, she reached the conclusion that all such accused
persons were liable to be prosecuted and, therefore, she accorded
sanction. In her cross-examination, she deposed that statement of
Narender Singh recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was also produced
before her. There is also reference of such statement in the sanction
order. 79 Sh. Sood has contended that such statement was lying in
sealed envelope and was never with the investigating agency and,
therefore, there was no occasion for the sanctioning authority to see that.
Admittedly, such confessional statement is on the basis of application
moved by A-2 as no notice of such application was ever given to CBI and
CBI did not come to know abut such confessional statement till the same
had been recorded. However, PW15 Dy. SP Vijay Kumar Shukla (IO)
has deposed that he had moved formal application for getting certified
copy of such statement and Court permitted inspection. He did that
somewhere in September, 2004. He also deposed that copy of
proceedings under Section 164 Cr.P.C. prepared by him, during such
inspection, was sent to the sanctioning authority and was shown to her
as well. This clearly suggests that defence is not justified in raising the
contention that sanctioning authority had no occasion to see or to
examine such confessional statement. 80 Needless to say that sanction given by authority to
prosecute an accused under the Prevention of Corruption Act is not mere
formality and it has to be accorded after full satisfaction on the basis of
the material and evidence made available with regard to the allegations
made against the particular accused. Application of mind on the part of
the sanctioning authority is imperative. Sanction order must be
demonstrative of the fact that there had been proper application of mind
on the part of the sanctioning authority. 81 Simultaneously, this provision does not intend that a public
servant who is alleged to be guilty should escape the consequences of
his criminal act by raising technical plea about invalidity of the sanction.
This section safeguards the innocent but does not shield the guilty. 82 It has been contended that grant of sanction was without
application of mind as draft sanction had been sent which has been
copied ad verbatim. However, on careful perusal of sanction order and
deposition of sanctioning Authority, I am of the considered opinion that
such contention has no merit whatsoever. Merely, because, a draft
sanction was sent to such sanctioning authority, it cannot be
automatically inferred that there was no application of mind. In the case
of DARSHAN LAL VS STATE, CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.73/2001
(DECIDED ON 31.07.2009), our own Hon'ble High Court has observed
that it would be incorrect to conclude that simply because the sanctioning
order was a virtual reproduction of the draft sanction, the same would be
deemed to have been passed without any application of mind and that
there was no necessary concomitant corollary between the two. CONSPIRACY AND ABETMENT
83 In such type of intricate matters, it is very hard to decipher
as to when the conspiracy was hatched. Conspiracy, itself, has also to
be inferred from various circumstances. 84 In Kehar Singh Vs. State AIR 1988 SC 1883, it has been
observed as under: 85 Concurrence of co-conspirator can be inferred by various
facts. I have already discussed above that it was sole and exclusive duty
of A-1 to keep A-2 under his control and supervision. The other police
officials i.e. A-3, A-4 & A-5 can be said to have accompanied for the
purpose of escort and security. Going to Mumbai and coming back from
there does not per se indicate any conspiracy. Moreover, as is borne out CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 36 of 40 from case-diary, A-3, A-4 and A-5 had left Mumbai with another accused
Jai Kishan Bengali by train leaving A-1 and A-2 in Mumbai. Something
must have transpired then between the two of them. 86 Sec 120-A of IPC defines criminal conspiracy as under :- Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence
shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the
agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in
pursuance thereof". 87 It has to be scrutinized and enquired whether two or
more persons are independently pursuing the same end or they have
come together with common unlawful object. The former does not render
them co-conspirator but the latter does. It is, therefore, plain and
manifest that meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing or
causing to be done an illegal act or an act by illegal means is sine qua
non of criminal conspiracy. The gist of the offence of conspiracy then lies,
not in doing the act, or effecting the purpose for which the conspiracy is
formed, nor in attempting to do them, nor in inciting others to do them,
but in the forming of the scheme or agreement between the parties.
Agreement is essential. Mere knowledge, or even discussion, of the plan
is not, per se, enough. 88 A-3, A-4 and A-5 were merely escorting police officials for
police remand and their job was more than over when they all returned to CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 37 of 40 Delhi leaving other two accused in Mumbai. There is no fact appearing
on record suggesting their knowledge or involvement in withdrawal of
money on 11.01.2001. 89 Section 107 defines abetment as under:- 90 Thus, a person may be charged of an offence of abetment if
he instigates a person to commit an offence; or engages in a conspiracy
to commit such an offence or intentionally aides a person to commit an
offence. Such offence of abetment will be constituted, even when the
person refuses to commit such an offence. Mens rea is an essential
ingredient of a criminal offence unless the statues expressly or by
necessary implication exclude the same. 91 Here, in the instant case, there is clear conspiracy between
A-1 and A-2. A-2 wanted to seek undue favour from A-1 and thus abetted CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 38 of 40 commission of offence by voluntarily offering illegal gratification to him. CONCLUSION

92 In view of my foregoing discussion, conclusion, which
emerges out, is as under: (i) A-2 was in police custody and was taken to
 Mumbai for investigation. (ii) He was brought back to Delhi and was in
 extended police custody even on 11.01.2001
 when he had contacted the bank officials and
 Manager i.e. PW1 A. Ratnakar Pai had even
 made call to A-1 and apprised him that A-2
 had come for withdrawal of money. (iii) A-1 did not raise his eye-brows. He was
 never taken by surprise by said call of bank
 manager. Rather, he tells him to make
 payment to A-2. (iv) There is no reason or explanation offered by
 defence as to why bank officials would
 depose falsely more so when no animosity
 had been suggested to them by any of the
 accused. (v) Presence of A-2 at bank was with clear
 approval, consent and knowledge of A-1. A-1
 was not seen at the bank in flesh and blood
 but he was the one who was pulling the
 strings and thus having and exercising full
 control over A-2. (vi) Keeping in mind the fact that A-1 had
 permitted bank officials to release the
 payment to A-2 coupled with fact that such
 amount was never recovered from the person
 of A-2 at any point of time, the only logical
 inference is that such amount was pocketed CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 39 of 40 by A-1. (vii) Re-assurance with respect to such crucial
 fact of pocketing money can be taken from
 the confessional statement of A-2. (viii) Such act of taking money was misconduct
 within the ambit of sec 13(1)(d) and
 amounted to taking gratification under sec 7
 of Prevention of Corruption Act . (ix) Presumption under sec 20 of Prevention of
 Corruption Act is also available as far as sec
 7 is concerned. (x) A-2 had made such payment out of selfish
 interest. He intended to seek favour from A-1. He had made such payment to A-1 voluntarily
 and merrily and not out of any fear or threat. Thus there was no extortion and it was
 consensual bribe. 93 In view of aforesaid, as far as A-3, A-4 & A-5 are
concerned, they are acquitted of all the charges levelled against
them in the present case. A-1 and A-2 are held guilty and convicted
under Section 120-B of Indian Penal Code r/w Sections 7 , 12 , 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. A-1 is
also held guilty and convicted for substantive offences under Sections 7 & 13 (1) (d) r/w 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and A-2 is also held guilty and convicted for substantive
offence under Section 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988.
Announced in the open Court
On this 29th day of February, 2012. (MANOJ JAIN)
 Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI)
 South Distt: Saket Court: New Delhi CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 40 of 40 CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc.
Monday, 05 March 2012
Present: Sh. S.K. Saxena, learned Special PP for CBI. Convict Puran Singh with counsel Sh. Vivek Sood.
 Convict Narinder Singh with counsel Sh. V.P. Singh and Sh.
 Sandeep Rai. (Remaining three accused persons who have already been
 acquitted are also present with counsel for submission of bonds
 under Section 437A Cr.P.C). 1 A-3, A-4 & A-5 who have already been acquitted have been
asked to furnish personal bond and surety bond in a sum of Rs. 25,000/- each
in compliance of Section 437A Cr.P.C. They have furnished the same.
Accepted. 2 Heard arguments on sentence. 3 Learned Special Public Prosecutor has prayed for stern prison-
term on the ground that corruption has reached phenomenal level and
deterrent sentence would serve as eye-opener for convicts as well as for
others. 4 Sh. V.P. Singh, on behalf of convict Narinder Singh, has prayed
for showing compassion and leniency. He has reiterated that convict Narinder
Singh had never made any payment of his own accord and volition. He was in
vulnerable state as his co-convict had threatened him that in case he did not
oblige him, he would face dire consequences and, therefore, he had no option
but to bow down to his mandate and dictates. 5 It has also been supplemented that it is a fit case where convict
deserves to be released on probation. It has been apprised that he is a pass
out from IIM Ahmadabad and is sole bread earner for his family which
consists of two children of his deceased sister also. 6 Sh. Vivek Sood has contended that convict Puran Singh deserves
maximum empathy. He has also reiterated that convict Narinder Singh was
having strong nexus with bank officials and was made easy prey by CBI and
CBI officials hushed up the scam unearthed by Puran Singh and in order to
see to it that he keeps his mouth shut, a false case has been planted upon
him by manipulating bank documents. It has also been contended that he is
more than sixty five years of age and his wife and divorced daughter are
totally dependent upon him. It has also been stated that while in Delhi Police,
he had very efficiently handled some sensitive matters which should be
considered a mitigating circumstance. 7 It has also been apprised that during investigation, A-1 remained
in custody for approximately two months and A-2 for about one month. 8 I have given my thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions. 9 I understand somewhat precarious position of convict Narinder
Singh as he was in police custody and his prime objective would have been to
come out of the same as quickly as possible. But, then, even if he was in
custody, he was not supposed to give in to the whims and fancies of convict
Puran Singh. Narinder Singh was, unquestionably, eying his own interest and
felt that in case he was able to gag the mouth of Puran Singh with money
then he would be shown favour. 10 Corruption has to be eradicated from the country. Task is
mammoth and enormous but not unattainable. To achieve that, man has to CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 42 of 40 rise above his self-seeking, egomaniacal and hoggish interest and to raise his
moral standards. Persons from public have to show resistance to such
illegitimate insistence and rather should act as whistle-blower. Time has
come where selfish approach has to be sacrificed for the sake of the society.
Eradication of corruption can be achieved with collective effort. It needs two
to make a row and similarly for any act of corruption to take place, on most of
the occasions, there are two parties. One is the bribe-giver and other is bribe-
accepter. If bribe-giver withdraws himself completely and shuns the other,
then dream of living in a corruption-free country would soon be a reality. 11 Keeping in mind the overall facts and circumstances, I do not
find any reason to grant benefit of probation to convict Narinder Singh. 12 Be that as it may, I cannot be oblivious of the fact that incident is
of 2001 and convicts have no bad antecedents and have already undergone
agony of trial as well. Keeping in mind overall facts and circumstances of the
case, both the convicts are sentenced as under: 13 All the sentences would run concurrently. Puran Singh: 10,000/- in default thereof he would undergo SI for a further period of one
month. (ii) Simple Imprisonment for one year and fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default SI
for a further period of one month offence under Section 7 of Prevention of
Corruption Act. (iii) Simple Imprisonment for two years and fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default
SI for a further period of one month for offence under Section 120B IPC read
with Section 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act. (iv) Simple Imprisonment for one year and fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default SI
for a further period of one month offence under Section 120B IPC r/w Section
7 of Prevention of Corruption Act. (v) Simple Imprisonment for one year and fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default SI
for a further period of one month offence under Section 120B IPC r/w Section
12 of Prevention of Corruption Act. 14 All the sentences would run concurrently. 15 Needless to say, both the convicts would be entitled to
benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. 16 A copy of judgment and order on sentence be given to both the
convicts free of cost. 17 Let both the convicts be sent to jail under appropriate warrants. 18 Both the convicts have also been made aware about the fact
that they have right to file appeal. 19 Ahlmad is directed to page and book-mark the file as per
the latest circular so as to enable digitization of the entire record. 20 File be consigned to record Room. Announced in the open Court
on this 05th March, 2012
 (MANOJ JAIN)
 Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI)
 South Distt: Saket Courts: New Delhi CC No. 08/2011 CBI Vs. Puran Singh etc. Page 45 of 40