% 28.02.2025
 The factual matrix in this case presented a situation in which a
 minor student was visited with certain consequences by reason of
 misusing a smartphone while in school. 2. Though the present petition was initially filed seeking certain
 directions to respondent No.1 - Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sector-05
 Dwarka, New Delhi - in relation to the petitioner (a minor student),
 during the course of hearing however, the parties to the proceedings,
 in particular the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan („KVS‟) urged this
 court to lay-down guidelines for the use of smartphones in schools,
 which came to be framed as an issue in para 8.1 of order dated
 07.12.2023. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:22 3. For ease of reference, the relevant portion of order dated 07.12.2023
 is extracted below : 4. The aforementioned issue is being addressed in order to minimize the
 chances of a similar incident occurring again, which has resulted in
 the initiation of these proceedings. 5. In this behalf, during the course of the hearing, this court invited
 submissions, suggestions and material from the National Commission
 for Protection of Child Rights (respondent No.3), the Delhi
 Commission for Protection of Child Rights (respondent No.4) and
 from the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (respondent No.5), who were
 represented before the court, to address the afore-noted issue. 6. Pursuant to the above, the following existing circulars, notifications
 and guidelines issued by government bodies and school boards have
 been brought to the notice of this court : The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:22
 6.3. Advisory dated 10.08.2023 issued by the Directorate of
 Education, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi
 („DoE‟) on the subject "Restrictions on the use of mobile
 phones in school premises under rule 43 of DSER 1973." 7. The court has perused and considered the aforesaid material. 8. First and foremost, it is observed that though certain guidelines have
 been issued by the CBSE and the KVS as far back as in the year 2009,
 evidently the guidelines have not borne the desired result. 9. Furthermore, in the opinion of this court, even the more recent
 advisory issued by the DoE in 2023, only lays-down very broad
 instructions to prevent the misuse of smartphones in schools. 10. Importantly, the aforementioned guidelines proceed on the
 fundamental premise that use of smartphones in school should be
 banned. This court would observe that much has changed in the past
 years as regards the use of technology, including for educational and
 other related purposes. In the opinion of this court therefore, a
 complete ban on use of smartphones by students attending school is
 both an undesirable and unworkable approach. 11. Without detracting from the deleterious and harmful effects that arise
 from the indiscriminate use and misuse of smartphones in school, this
 court is of the view that smartphones also serve several salutary
 purposes, including as devices that help with co-ordination between
 parents and the children, which adds to the safety and security of
 students attending school. 12. To balance these two considerations therefore, in the opinion of this
 court, the proper course of action would be for this court to articulate W.P.(C) 15191/2023 Page 3 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:22
 certain guiding principles, which the concerned regulatory bodies,
 education boards and other stakeholders may follow, adapt and/or
 refine as may be best suited to their respective needs, and as may be
 feasible with available resources, in relation to the use of smartphones
 in schools. 13. With the aforesaid aim and intent, this court proceeds to draw-up the
 following guiding principles which would serve to balance the
 beneficial and deleterious effects of permitting the use of smartphones
 in the hands of students while attending school : This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:23
 13.5. The policy should permit use of smartphones for connectivity
 for purposes of safety and co-ordination but disallow the use of
 smartphones for entertainment/recreational use;
 13.6. The policy on regulating and monitoring the use of
 smartphones in school should be made in consultation with
 parents, educators, and experts, to evolve a balanced approach
 that addresses the needs and concerns of all parties involved;
 13.7. Schools should have the discretion to implement policies that
 fit their unique situations, whether that involves allowing
 limited use of smartphones in specified areas of the school or
 enforcing stricter bans, including bans during specific times and
 events; 13.8. The policy should establish transparent, fair, and enforceable
 consequences for violation of the rules for use of smartphones
 in school, ensuring consistent application without being
 excessively harsh. Possible consequences could include
 confiscation of smartphones for a certain time-period; or
 barring a student from carrying a smartphone for specified
 number of days, as a measure of disciplining an errant student;
 and
 13.9. Given the fast-paced advancement of technology, the policy
 should be regularly reviewed and revised to tackle emerging
 challenges. 14. The present petition is disposed-of with the aforesaid guiding
 principles for the concerned authorities to review their extant policies,
 without however interfering with those polices at this stage. A copy of W.P.(C) 15191/2023 Page 5 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:23
 this order be sent by the Registry to the Chairman, Central Board of
 Secondary Education; the Director, Directorate of Education,
 Government of NCT of Delhi; and the Commissioner, Kendriya
 Vidyalaya, Sanghatan, expeditiously. 15. Insofar as the query framed in para 8.2 of order dated 07.12.2023 is
 concerned, this court is of the view that no further action is warranted
 on that issue. 16. Furthermore, the direction contained in para 11 of order dated
 23.11.2023 passed in the present proceedings is made absolute. 17. In supersession of the direction contained in various earlier orders,
 barring the uploading of the orders in this matter, it is directed that a
 copy of the present order be uploaded on the website of the High
 Court, and be forwarded to various authorities as directed above. 18. Needless to add that the petitioner‟s name shall remain anonymised
 and no other aspects that may lead to disclosing the petitioner‟s
 identity shall be placed in the public domain. 19. The petition stands disposed-of in the above terms. 20. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed-of. ANUP JAIRAM BHAMBHANI, J
 FEBRUARY 28, 2025
 ak/vr W.P.(C) 15191/2023 Page 6 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/03/2025 at 22:52:23