SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Customer snatches food from the delivery boy and refused to pay the cash for COD order and Zomato customer care refuses to help.
DATE: 2024-07-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1e31a94/customer_snatches_food_from_the_delivery_boy_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have a friend who is working as a food delivery executive in Zomato, Jaipur. He came across a food order amounting to approximately *₹*750. He went to the delivery address and called the customer, He arrived with 3–4 people, and all of them were drunk. They took the parcel and asked him to wait, as one of them is going to make the payment via UPI. They asked for his Phone Pe number and said they are going to make the payment they made away with the parcel. Please note that they took it out of his hand, he didn't want to give it to them unless he confirmed the payment status. Then they said that they had made the payment and shared a screenshot, and left. He asked them to wait until he checked that payment status, but they didn't wait, and he couldn't do anything to escalate the situation as he was clearly outnumbered in a strange city with no connections. When he checked the screenshot, he knew immediately that it was a fake one and could be easily created using payment spoofing apps. He called them back saying the payment didn't arrive in his bank account and he know that this screenshot is faked, to which they responded, "Bhaiya hamne to payment krdiya hai, ab aap apne hisab se dekh lo" and cut the call. He tried calling them again multiple times but they didn't pick the call after that. He contacted Zomato customer care and explained the issue. He didn't not complete the order or the payment because he was not paid for it. The customer care executive told him that the payment status is went into hold and will arrive in his bank account in some time but it didn't. When we woke up the next morning to check, Zomato has confirmed the delivery of his order on his behalf, and the amount was still missing from his bank account. After that, he is no longer able to connect the customer care execs and whenever he connects them, they ask him to raise a ticket which he already did and share the ticket id to which they don't do anything.

He is in a very dire situation right now and getting fucked wherever he goes. He is a very good cook and wanted to open his own fast food business, for which he was saving money for the past 2 years but then earlier this year he got himself into a situation and got scammed and lost all his money (approximately 3 lacs). Since he didn't have any money, he tried the tiffin service, but it didn't quite work. Now after having a debt of approx. 70-80k, he could no longer experiment and was forced to become a Zomato delivery boy, and that too in a different city, as the one he lives in doesn't offer much. He planned to do this for 4-6 months so that he could be debt-free and have some financial backup for his small food business, but after yesterday's incident, he is in a deep depression, which I felt immediately as I was talking to him on the phone.

Any idea how he can be helped? It's not a small amount, as the amount he lost is equal to a day (12 hours) of his hard earned income.