23rd october, 2019 1. To Smt nirmala sitharaman (Finance minister) Ministry of finance North block New delhi Appointment. [protected]@gov.in 2. To The sh. Vikas seth (Ceo) Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: vikas. [protected]@bharti-axalife.com/ [protected]@gmail.com 3. To The ms ishita mukherjee (Coo) Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: ishita. [protected]@bharti-axalife.com 4. To The head customer service Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: head. [protected]@bhartiaxa.com [protected]@bharti-axalife.com, complaints. [protected]@bhartiaxa.com [protected]@bharti-axalife.com, [protected]@bharti-axalife.com 5. To Dishant yogesh chandra sagwaria (Ceo & vice president) Deal money securities pvt ltd Plot no. A356/357, road no.26, Wagle industrial estate, Thane (West), Maharashtra - 400 604. Dishant. [protected]@gmail.com 6. To Michael d’souza (Compliance officer) Deal money securities pvt ltd Plot no. A356/357, road no.26, Wagle industrial estate, Thane (West), Maharashtra - 400 604. [protected]@dealmoney.in, [protected]@dealmoney.in Sub : complaint against your so called corporate agent namely deal money securities pvt ltd as well as mr akhilesh sharma (Mobile no: [protected] & whatsapp no [protected] for making false representation/ misguide/ concealment of material facts, snatching of money and fraudently made various policies on the ground that these policies are guarantee for sanctioned a loan of rs 45 lakh. Dear sir's/madam, That this is to informed you that i am a peace loving, law abiding citizen of the county and working as a printing operator in a private company in delhi and want to setup my own unit in same business line, for which i was need some funds and was looking a loan to setup my own unit.in the beginning of 2018, i had applied a loan of rs 30, 000, 00/- (Rupees thirty lakh only) with hdb financial services, uttam nagar west branch, new delhi with all requisite formalities. Later hdb financial services informed me that my application was not approved by hdb. That after rejection of my said application & passing of few months, in mid 2018 i received a call from. "mr akhilesh sharma" and he introduce himself as a loan executive of citi financial services having its office at connaught place, new delhi and told me that he knows i am in need of a loan for setup my own printing unit and my loan application had been rejected by hdb financial services already. He further stated that he can help me to getting a loan of huge amount of rs 45 lakh. I asked him that how? He told me that i need to buy a bharti axa life insurance policy of rs 100000/-, and once you bought said life insurance policy then on behalf of said policy he would get approved my loan from citi financial services. He also further stated that it is one time premium policy and all paid amount is fully refundable without any deduction with applicable profit & bonus on the maturity of policy, even in the mid of policy also, if required I asked him to meet personally, but he refused with saying that always he is busy with clients & some time busy in official meeting with some senior executive to taking a decision on various loan application. However your work would be done definitely. He further stated that you don't need to go anywhere to getting insurance policy, the company executive would visit to you at your place and will collect all necessary documents those required for said policy. That i thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give of rs 99999/- (Rupees ninety nine thousand nine hundred and ninety nine only) through demand draft no 044416 drawn on uco bank, naraina branch, delhi as on 21.08.2018 and bought a life insurance police in my name as dhirender singh vide policy no[protected] dtd 28/08/2018. (Scan copy of policy enclosed herewith as annexure-a). That after passing of around two months, when i asked him about the status of my loan application, then he told me that there are some changes had in the rules of ministry of finance, govt of india, due which my application is not getting approved in the higher slab of loan, and it will take time and how long it will take, he can't say, because it is a policy matter. He further stated that my loan application can be approved, but into lower amount, but if i need amount of rs 45 lakh, in that case i also need to buy 1 -2 more policy of same amount in other family members name. After hearing this i clearly refused him to buy any other insurance policy. That in the december, 2018 he called me and called me to meet personally in the office of citi financial service, connaught place, new delhi. I reached at the office of citi financial service as per pre fixed scheduled time and asked from the security guard about akhilesh sharma. Security guard told me that he is inside of office. I went inside the office and asked from someone. He told me that he may be outside for consuming tea/snacks. Then i called to akhilesh sharma and informed him that i am in the office of citi financial services. Then he told me that he was waiting for me since long time and now left the office and now consuming some tea/snacks in nearby area of office and also request me to come outside of citi financial office and meet there. That during meeting and after a lot of discussion he induced and allured me that there is no risk of money at all and i would be benefited to getting bonus on my deposit beside safety of my life. He already facilitate and get approved various loans of very huge amount in the uncounted nos and this is safest and fastest way for getting a business loan on lower interest. He further stated that loan applications were received after me, got approved, because they bought insurance policy. That again i thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give him rs 49998/- (Rupees forty nine ninety thousand nine hundred & ninety eight only) through cheuqe drawn on bank of braoda, uttam nagar west, delhi and bought another life insurance police in the name of my wife as geeta devi vide policy no[protected] dtd 05/02/2019. (Scan copy of policy enclosed herewith as annexure - b) That in the last week of february, 2019 he again call me and asked about the copy of policy bond. I gave him policy no, which was received on my mobile through sms, after seeing this he again called me, and state that he need copy of policy bond for loan approval, i told him that i had not got policy bond, then he told me, that i have to visit bharti axa insurance, jhandewalan office and meet to mr vishwajeet there, and tell him my name, he will handover you policy bond. Then i went to bharti axa jhandewalan, office and meet there with mr vishwajeet and receive the policy bond and sent its to akhilesh sharma on his whatsapp no. After getting copy of policy he again called me and state that i have to wait for one week and within one week my loan would get approved. After passing of fifteen days, in late evening i received a call from someone that he is calling from bandhan bank, and my loan get approved and the loan amount would be transferred in to my bank account in next 48 hours, but i need to pay some transaction/service tax in the tune of 2.5% of loan amount. I clearly refused him to pay any amount. Then he told me that he is informing to akhilesh sharma about this conversation through mail. After passing of three days again i received a call from akhilesh sharma and tried to convince me that this is govt policy and every person whose loan get approved, need to pay said tax amount before transfer of loan into his bank account.in your case you can pay only 50% of total value tax amount and remaining 50% of tax would be bear by citi financial services. That again i thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give him rs 45501/- (Rupees forty five thousand five hundred & one only) through atm transfer and bought another medi claim police in my name as dhirender singh vide policy no j9113324 dtd 26/02/2019. (Policy bond not yet received). That on 15th march, 2019 i received a call from akhilesh sharma, he informed me that all formalities has been completed and my loan get approved, he also state that after few hours likely 4:00 pm, i would be get another call from bank side and, said bank official would be informed you, that when they would be transfer loan amount into your bank account. That same day evening i received a call from bandhan bank, first he asked me that have you talked with akhilesh? I say yes, then he told me that some financial rules has been changed from 01/03/2019 onward and your loan already approved, you need only to buy a last policy an amount of rs 94000/- (Rupees ninety four thousand only) as soon as you bought insurance policy the loan amount would be credited into your bank account in next 24 hours. He also state that whatever money, i have spent earlier are being invested and used for safe guard of my life and there is nothing to conceal or cheating or commission/omission. And the invested amount is fully refundable with applicable profit/bonus as and when required. That again i thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give him rs 94000/- (Rupees ninety four thousand only) through atm transfer and bought another life insurance police in the name of my nephew as manish kumar singh vide policy no[protected] dtd 20/03/2019. (Policy bond not yet received). Now there is no doubt that these insurance policies were issued on the ground of deceit, and forgery with stating that is a necessary component for sanctioned of laon of rs 45 lakhs by the mr akhilesh sharma. It is stated that the said mr akhilesh sharma misused and abused the official capacity and issued policies by ensuring the premium amount is fully refundable at any time, it is a guarantee to sanctioned a loan of rs 45 lakh. While in fact complainant was neither any need of these of polices nor was in a position to pay too much high premiums. It is learnt that there are various complaints pending against akhilesh sharma as well as so called many other agent attached/working with bharti life axa insurance and some of them have been put on internet on various website clearly indicating prima facie commission of offence of cheating and breach of trust with using same modus operandi. No one can denied involvement of higher official of bharti life axa insurance in entire fraud/scam. They are playing with hard earned of innocent public alike me. Company appears to be indulging in unfair, unethical and deceitful business/operations and the information refleceted on company website is false and dubious. Company is extorting money by presenting unrealistic descriptions, showing a rosy picture, false and misleading promises and encourage to bought a higher amount premium policy through its so called agent and paying them a huge commission. That on account of the above said addressee no 1 are requested to take necessary stern action against addressee no 2 - 6. It is humbly request to addressee no 2 - 4 for refund of entire amount of above all four policies and take appropriate legal action against addressee no 5 & 6 with akhilesh sharma. It is pertinent to mentioned here that a preliminary police complaint has been filled with bindapur, uttam nagar police station and same has been registered vide dd no 52a as on 21/09/2019 under investigation office sub inspector mr jagdish. Thanking you With rgd Dhirender singh, S/o sh jagan nath singh R/o. Plot no c -8, back side C - block, nanhey park Uttam nagar, New delhi-110 059 Mobile: [protected] E. Mail: [protected]@yahoo.com [protected]@gmail.com Thereafter, next one month he stopped to pick my calls. Thereafter i received a call from rajesh. That he is calling from citi financial and your file is lying with me for laon sanctioned, he further state that you have to pay some money to get sanctioned said loan, i refused that i would not gave a single penny. After three day again i recieved a cal from rajesh i swear that i would get sanctioned your loan and this time your money would not waste, but i refuse, again after passing of three days early morning i received a call from rajesh i am also get some commission and both would be benefited. Then he traped me and request to deposite I was continue calling to mr akhilesh sharma and he also called me many time and using dilatory tactic like it would be done in next 1 -2 days. After tired i submitted an application with bharti axa life insurance to fore closure of insurance policy bought in the name of manish kumar singh, after passing of 4 -5 days of submission of said application i received a call from akhilesh sharma and requested that please you dont close said policy and if you close said policy then loan would not be sancationed, but i refused then he state that he is depsoiting rupees one lakh from his pocket and sanctioned my loan application and also state that next day he would send recipet me for deposited of rs 1.0 lakh. Thereafter passing of three days i recieved a call mr rahul from bandhan bank that your file has been clear from citi financial and you dont need to worry the laon amount would be credited in next 48 hours into your bank account. I reci called him and asked about status of my loan, then he told me that he is going to account department and it would be released in next one week. Aftre one week again i called him this time he told me that your loan would be credited into your bank account in next 24 hours. Both sampath and k ramaswamy kept speaking to the complainant till october 2018. Sampath gave sandeep several forged letters to induce him. From november 2018, both the persons stopped calling sandeep and even stopped picking up his calls following which complaint got suspicious. Sampath gave the victim bank cheques which bounced. Samptah even threatened to kill sandeep following he registered a complaint with police, ” said the dcp. “the accused was recently arrested in three criminal cases in hyderabad and got bail. But, he did not join investigation in the present case. Thus, a non bailable warrant was obtained against him. On july 2, acting on specific inputs the accused was nabbed from a hotel in delhi’s mahipalpur area, ” said the dcp. “during interrogation, the accused revealed that in order to earn lavish life he used to introduce himself as a senior bureaucrat, and later, he prepared fake ids of government departments and used it to influence the innocent persons and started cheating people with huge amounts, ” said the dcp adding that efforts are being made to apprehend the other accused persons involved in this cheating racket. In the light of narrated above it is very clear that above all four policies were issued by fraud, false representation & concealment of material facts. Undersign neither was in any need of these policy at the time of its issuance nor in a position to pay its premium.in fact these policy were bought on the ground as a security of getting approved of loan application. He is a victim of a racket which was run through various official of insurance company as well as its corporate agent. Dhirender singh, S/o sh jagan nath singh R/o. Plot no c -8, C - block, nanhey park Uttam nagar, New delhi-110 059 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)