The US Federal Trade Commission’s rule banning fake reviews, finalized in August , took effect on October 21, enforcing civil penalties for violators, CNET reported . The rule addresses AI-generated reviews as well as reviews that misrepresent the experience of the person who bought and used the reviewed item. It also prohibits businesses from buying such reviews, including procuring them from company insiders, or disseminating them when they know the review is fake.

The rule also restricts businesses from suppressing reviews through measures such as groundless legal threats, physical threats, intimidation, or certain false public accusations to prevent or remove a negative consumer review. Further, companies cannot falsely claim that their website shows all or most customer reviews if they have actually hidden or removed reviews based on low ratings or negative comments.

Besides fake reviews, the FTC also restricts companies from artificially inflating their social media presence by buying bot followers or fake views. This restriction only applies when the company knowingly purchases fake social media engagement to make their business look more popular online than it is.

Like the FTC, Indian authorities have been seeking to curb fake reviews online. In 2022 , the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA), and the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) released a framework for protecting consumers from fake reviews. BIS also announced its plans to put in place specific responsibilities for those writing reviews and review administrators (those who manage reviews for a specific company). BIS wanted reviewers to provide contact information, for administrators to verify reviewers via email address, telephone call, or SMS, and confirm registration by clicking on a link, using a captcha system, etc., to ensure traceability and genuineness.

More recently, in May this year , DoCA conducted a stakeholder consultation where it discussed a draft Quality Control Order (QCO) for online reviews. This proposed QCO will prohibit companies from publishing biased consumer reviews and altering reviews to alter their message. The order will also restrict companies from preventing or discouraging customers from leaving negative reviews.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event