Applicant Chirag Agarwal is in judicial custody

in FIR No.103 of 2020, under Sections 323 , 386 , 392 , 504 and 506 IPC, Police Station-Transit Camp, District-

Udham Singh Nagar. He has sought his release on bail. 2. Heard learned counsel for the applicant

through video conferencing and perused the record. 3. According to the FIR, due to poor economic

condition, the informant took loan from the applicant,

who used to advance loans at some interest. The FIR

records that it is the nature of the applicant and his

associates that they would trap the people by giving them

loans and then extract interest; would make their nude

videos and blackmail them. On 31.12.2021, according to

the FIR, the applicant and co-accused called the 2 informant in his office, assaulted him indiscriminately

and disrobed him; beaten him; made his video and forced

him to sign some documents, threatening that in case he

raises his voice, his video would be placed on public

domain. The FIR is quite in detail. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant would

submit that earlier to the FIR in the instant case, an FIR

No.102 of 2022 was filed against the applicant by one

Rafiq, taking clue of it, it is argued a similar FIR has been

filed in the instant case. He would submit that there is no

video or photograph of the informant in the instant case;

Rafiq, who had filed FIR No.102 of 2022, against the

applicant, did not support the prosecution case and in

that FIR, the applicant has already been granted bail by

this Court. It is argued that the incident allegedly took

place on 31.12.2021, whereas, the FIR has been lodged

long thereafter on 27.03.2022. There is no medical report;

it is not the case that any cheques, allegedly given by the

informant, was ever encashed by the applicant; it has also

not been established that any vehicle was ever taken by

the applicant from the informant. It is also submitted that

all the independent witnesses including Subhrat Mandal,

Rajat Kumar and Gopal Sashtri have not supported the 3 prosecution case. It is only the informant, who supports

the prosecution case but his statement is not supported

by any other evidence. 5. Learned State Counsel admits that the FIR is

delayed, but, he would submit that the informant was

under tremendous fear of the applicant. It is only when

the video of Rafiq went viral on 27.03.2022, that the

informant could muster courage to lodge the FIR. He

would submit that the informant has supported the

prosecution case. His wife also supports the prosecution

case. 6. In the instant case, there are naked videos and

photographs, that are on record, but they allegedly

pertain to FIR No.102 of 2022. It has been filed along with

supplementary counter affidavit as Annexure No.1. and it

is admitted that the informant in FIR No.102 of 2022, did

not support the prosecution case. 7. What forensic or electronic evidence did the

prosecution adduce? Did they verify whose photographs

were there? And have they been verifying those

photographs in this matter? This is all not clear. The act,

as attributed to the applicant, is really much serious. It is 4 the case that there had been a similar nature of case in

the past, in which the applicant had been granted bail. It

is being argued that the applicant and his associates have

a racket to extract money from the people and to

blackmail them. The informant has supported the

prosecution case. The wife of the applicant has also stated

as to how the informant was assaulted and blackmailed. 8. Having considered, this Court is of the view

that there is no reason to grant bail to the applicant.

Accordingly, the bail application deserves to be rejected. 9. The bail application is rejected. (Ravindra Maithani, J.)
 Vacation Judge
 18.01.2023
Ravi Bisht