IA dated 20.02.2015

 

 (Application for transfer of the case to another Bench)

 

          This application appears to be misconceived.  Even otherwise, it is infructuous. Consigned to record. (Application u/s 12(1)(c) of Consumer Protection Act, 1986)

 

 

 

          Heard learned counsel for the complainants/applicants. This application has been filed under section 12(1)(c) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to continue with the complaint as a class action.  In this case even though the law does not require pre-publication i.e. prior to the allowing of such applications, yet the following notice is stated to have been published on 23.12.2022 in the Times of India with information to all persons in case they wish to join in this complaint and it is open to them to express their intentions or file applications:- Learned counsel submits that in spite of this, none of them have come forward to express his/her desire to join in this complaint and therefore he prays that the present complaint may be permitted to be continued as a joint complaint on behalf of the 19 persons who have filed the present complaint and not as a class action. Consequently, this application is consigned to record with permission to pursue this complaint as a joint complaint.  Even otherwise, it appears that the present original claim was filed in the year 2013 and it is almost four years thereafter that the application was filed in the year 2017. Complaint

 

List the complaint for final hearing on 06.02.2024. In the meantime, in case any subsequent events or additional documents have come into existence, the same may be exchanged by way of affidavits between the parties before the date of final hearing." The case was again taken up on 26.03.2024 when the following order was passed:- The case was taken up on 05.04.2024 when the learned Counsel for the Complainant gave up the claim with regard to the maintenance and security issue that stands recorded in the order quoted hereinunder:- It is then that the arguments proceeded on the other issues raised which stands recorded in the order dated 24.05.2024 extracted hereinunder:- The case was finally argued on 04.09.2024 when learned Counsel for both the parties advanced their submissions. Ms. Jigyasa Sharma, learned counsel for the Opposite Party, precisely consolidated her arguments on the 4 issues raised by the Complainants namely, the issue of car parking, the issue of club membership, the issue of electricity installation charges and lastly the claim of delay compensation by the Complainants. She, however, maintained that all these issues are untenable and she has advanced here submissions subject to the primary argument raised on behalf of the Opposite Parties that the complaint is barred by limitation. She therefore submits that if the argument on limitation is accepted then the complaint would otherwise be not maintainable on merits as raised by the learned Counsel for the Complainant. The arguments advanced on the issue of limitation by the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party is founded on the allegation that most of these Complainants had been offered possession in 2009 and actual physical possession was taken by them except for a couple of them who took the possession in 2010 and one of the on 04.07.2011. She has relied on the chart extracted in paragraph 7 of the affidavit dated 04.04.2024 that was filed on 30.04.2024 vide Diary No.16486. The said chart is extracted hereinunder:- Neeraj Garg
			
			 
			 

T18/601
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-4
			
			 
			 

28.04.2010

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-5

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Deepak Khanna
			
			 
			 

T02/19
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-6
			
			 
			 

15.10.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-7

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

V P Mishra
			
			 
			 

T03/903
			
			 
			 

24.02.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-8
			
			 
			 

06.05.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-9

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Sandeep Sahni (Flat sold to R P Kundra)
			
			 
			 

T09/903
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-10
			
			 
			 

11.11.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-11

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Vipul Aggarwal
			
			 
			 

T18/1101
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-13
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-14

			 

 
			
			 
			 

Payment reminders owing to delays sent to Complainant, Annexed herewith as Annexure A-12

			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Chandra Kanta Gupta
			
			 
			 

T03/804
			
			 
			 

24.02.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-15

			 

 
			
			 
			 

14.09.2010

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-16

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Gaurav Bansal
			
			 
			 

T20/1203
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-17
			
			 
			 

29.08.2009

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-18

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Usha Gupta
			
			 
			 

T09/1402
			
			 
			 

Original Customer file not traceable
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Anurag Mittal
			
			 
			 

T09/503
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-19

			 

 
			
			 
			 

25.09.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-20

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Sugata Parmani K
			
			 
			 

T09/702
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-21
			
			 
			 

17.12.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-22

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Shashi Gupta
			
			 
			 

T20/402
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-23
			
			 
			 

31.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-24

			 

 
			
			 
			 

Payment reminders owing to delays sent to Complainant, Annexed herewith as Annexure A-25

			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Sanjay K Jain
			
			 
			 

T20/602
			
			 
			 

01.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-26

			 

 
			
			 
			 

23.10.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-27
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Gaurav Singh Johar
			
			 
			 

T11/1104
			
			 
			 

28.02.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-28
			
			 
			 

31.03.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-29

			 

 
			
			 
			 

Payment reminders owing to delays sent to Complainant, Annexed herewith as Annexure A-30

			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Nitin Gupta
			
			 
			 

T09/701
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-31
			
			 
			 

03.12.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-32

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Biju Sebastian
			
			 
			 

T14/1201
			
			 
			 

16.08.2010

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-33
			
			 
			 

04.07.2011

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-34

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Ajay Chandorkar
			
			 
			 

T10/701
			
			 
			 

28.02.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-35
			
			 
			 

19.06.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-36

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

R G Garg
			
			 
			 

T08/404
			
			 
			 

Original customer file not traceable

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 

			 

 

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 
				  
			
			
			 
			 

Ravi Ayyals Omayajula
			
			 
			 

T09/1102
			
			 
			 

06.07.2009

			 

 

			 

Offer of possession and statement of Account annexed herewith as Annexure A-37

			 

 
			
			 
			 

07.09.2009

			 

 

			 

Acceptance of possession, undertaking and clearance certificate annexed herewith as Annexure A-38

			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
	

 

 

 
	 It is therefore submitted that in terms of the limitation prescribed under Section 24A of the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the complaint ought to have been filed within two years of the dates of possession referred to above , but as is evident on record the complaint was filed on 10.09.2013 which is almost after 3 and a half years after taking possession. It is urged that there is neither any delay explained nor any application has been moved by the Complainants for condoning the delay. One of the contentions raised is that the Complainant No.13, Mr. Sanjay Kumar Jain, had filed a complaint before the District Forum Gurgaon being CC/5/2010 but the same was withdrawn on an application filed and the order passed therein on 28.02.2013 is extracted hereinunder:- It is submitted that the said complaint was withdrawn without any liberty to file the present complaint, nonetheless the said complaint was an individual complaint of only one person who has joined in the present complaint as Complainant No.13. The submission is that this cannot be an explanation for any delay, as in view of the chart extracted hereinabove, almost all the Complainants had taken possession in 2009 and a couple of them later on in 2010-11. Thus, the cause of action if any for all of them alleging deficiency had arisen way back in 2009-10. Since the complaint was not filed within two years, and no explanation worth the name has been given for the delay or pleaded, this complaint is severely barred by time and deserves to be rejected. It is further submitted that no deficiency by any of the Complainants was communicated or complained of after taking possession. She submits that there is not a single document on record to infer a continuity of the cause of action and hence the argument raised on behalf of the Complainant that a continuing cause of action exists is bereft of any pleading or facts. It is then urged that in effect there is no pleading of the deficiencies in the complaint which are now sought to be introduced through the reply affidavit filed by the Complainants dated 17.05.2024 presented before the Commission vide Diary No.19400 on 21.05.2024. She has pointed out to the allegations made in paragraph 7 of the said affidavit through a chart narrating certain deficiencies.. It is urged that this is for the first time that these allegations have been made with no supporting letter or mail or any communication intimating the Opposite Party about such alleged deficiencies till 2024. The allegations in the aforesaid affidavit have seen the light of the day for the first time and were not part of the pleadings of the complaint or even thereafter. Thus, there was no cause of action ever communicated about any such deficiencies after the Complainants had taken over possession in 2009-10. It is therefore submitted that such allegations cannot be entertained after 14 years without there being any evidence of its communication in the past or being pleaded in the complaint. Thus, there is a huge delay regarding such allegations, which is inordinate and unexplained, hence the allegations about such deficiencies cannot be entertained in the light of the statutory bar under Section 24A of the 1986 Act. It needs to be clarified at the outset that the Complaint was argued in respect of the 19 Complainants and the prayer made in the complaint is for payment of rent on account of delay in possession as well as delay compensation and other heads which has been given the shape of a calculation in terms of the schedule quoted in paragraph 6 of the complaint extracted hereinunder:- Coming to the other deficiencies alleged in paragraph 6 of the complaint, it has already been noted above that the claim of maintenance security charges has been given up as recorded in the order dated 05.04.2024. Consequently, it is the remaining four deficiencies categorised as A, B, C and E that were made the basis of the submissions and have been heard by this Commission as recorded hereinabove. The contention of the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party is that all these four remaining deficiencies as alleged were in the knowledge of the Complainants way back in the year 2009-2010. She submits that even otherwise on merits the said deficiencies are untenable but once the Complainants had taken possession on the dates referred to hereinabove, the cause of action had already commenced and there is no explanation for any delay for not having filed the complaint within two years. The excuse of one of the Complainants Mr. Sanjay Kumar Jain having approached the State Commission and then withdrawn the complaint also does not amount to either a cogent or plausible explanation. In this regard, it would be appropriate to mention that the Apex Court in the case of State Bank of India Vs. B.S. Agriculture Industries (l) (2009) 5 SCC 121 in paragraph 11 to 14 as held as under: These observations would clearly suggest that where the negotiations were still on, there would be no question of starting of the limitation period." The third judgment which comes to mind is the recent decision of the Apex Court in the case of Samruddhi Co-Operative Housing Society Vs. Mumbai Mahalaxmi Construction Pvt Ltd. (2022) 4 SCC 103 where deficiency in service and the computation of limitation under the 1986 Act was subjected to interpretation arising out of a dispute of failure to obtain an occupancy certificate. It was held that such a deficiency provided a continuing wrong and therefore a consumer complaint would be maintainable and would not be barred by limitation. After referring to various decisions under the heading of "analysis" the Apex Court in paragraph 11 to 18 held as under:- Section 24-A of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 provides for the period of limitation period for lodging a complaint. A complaint to a consumer forum has to be filed within two years of the date on which the cause of action has arisen. In the instant case, the appellant has submitted that since the cause of action is founded on a continuing wrong, the complaint is within limitation. Section 22 of the Limitation Act, 1963 [ "22. Continuing breaches and torts.--In the case of a continuing breach of contract or in the case of a continuing tort, a fresh period of limitation begins to run at every moment of the time during which the breach or the tort, as the case may be, continues."] provides for the computation of limitation in the case of a continuing breach of contract or tort. It provides that in case of a continuing breach of contract, a fresh period of limitation begins to run at every moment of time during which the breach continues. This Court in Balakrishna Savalram Pujari Waghmare v. Shree Dhyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan [Balakrishna Savalram Pujari Waghmare v. Shree Dhyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan, 1959 Supp (2) SCR 476 : AIR 1959 SC 798] elaborated on when a continuous cause of action arises. Speaking for the three-Judge Bench, P.B. Gajendragadkar, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that : (Balakrishna case [ Balakrishna Savalram Pujari Waghmare v. Shree Dhyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan , 1959 Supp (2) SCR 476 : AIR 1959 SC 798] , AIR p. 807, para 31)

 

"31. ... Does the conduct of the trustees amount to a continuing wrong under Section 23 ? That is the question which this contention raises for our decision. In other words, did the cause of action arise de die in diem as claimed by the appellants? In dealing with this argument it is necessary to bear in mind that Section 23 refers not to a continuing right but to a continuing wrong. It is the very essence of a continuing wrong that it is an act which creates a continuing source of injury and renders the doer of the act responsible and liable for the continuance of the said injury. If the wrongful act causes an injury which is complete, there is no continuing wrong even though the damage resulting from the act may continue. If, however, a wrongful act is of such a character that the injury caused by it itself continues, then the act constitutes a continuing wrong. In this connection it is necessary to draw a distinction between the i njury caused by the wrongful act and what may be described as the effect of the said injury. It is only in regard to acts which can be properly characterised as continuing wrongs that Section 23 can be invoked." (emphasis supplied)

 

The Court held that the act of the trustees to deny the rights of Guravs as hereditary worshippers and dispossessing them through a decree of the court was not a continuing wrong. Although the continued dispossession caused damage to the appellants, the injury to their rights was complete when they were evicted. In CWT v. Suresh Seth [CWT v. Suresh Seth, (1981) 2 SCC 790 : 1981 SCC (Tax) 168] , a two-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with the question of whether a default in filing a return under the Wealth Tax Act amounted to a continuing wrong. E.S. Venkataramiah, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that : (SCC pp. 798-99, para 11)

 

"11. ... The distinctive nature of a continuing wrong is that the law that is violated makes the wrongdoer continuously liable for penalty. A wrong or default which is complete but whose effect may continue to be felt even after its completion is, however, not a continuing wrong or default. It is reasonable to take the view that the court should not be eager to hold that an act or omission is a continuing wrong or default unless there are words in the statute concerned which make out that such was the intention of the legislature. In the instant case whenever the question of levying penalty arises what has to be first considered is whether the assessee has failed without reasonable cause to file the return as required by law and if it is held that he has failed to do so then penalty has to be levied in accordance with the measure provided in the Act. When the default is the filing of delayed return the penalty may be correlated to the time lag between the last day for filing it without penalty and the day on which it is filed and the quantum of tax or wealth involved in the case for purposes of determining the quantum of penalty but the default however is only one which takes place on the expiry of the last day for filing the return without penalty and not a continuing one. The default in question does not, however, give rise to a fresh cause of action every day. Explaining the expression "a continuing cause of action" Lord Lindley in Hole v. Chard Union [Hole v. Chard Union, (1894) 1 Ch 293 : 63 LJ Ch 469 : 70 LT 52 (CA)] observed : (Ch pp. 295-96)

 

'... What is a continuing cause of action? Speaking accurately, there is no such thing; but what is called a continuing cause of action is a cause of action which arises from the repetition of acts or omissions of the same kind as that for which the action was brought.' " 17. In M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi Temple-5 J.) v. Suresh Das [M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi Temple-5 J.) v. Suresh Das, (2020) 1 SCC 1] , a Constitution Bench of this Court [of which one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) was a part] examined the precedents with regard to a continuing wrong. The Court observed that : (SCC p. 369, para 343)

 

"343. The submission of Nirmohi Akhara is based on the principle of continuing wrong as a defence to a plea of limitation. In assessing the submission, a distinction must be made between the source of a legal injury and the effect of the injury. The source of a legal injury is founded in a breach of an obligation. A continuing wrong arises where there is an obligation imposed by law, agreement or otherwise to continue to act or to desist from acting in a particular manner. The breach of such an obligation extends beyond a single completed act or omission. The breach is of a continuing nature, giving rise to a legal injury which assumes the nature of a continuing wrong. For a continuing wrong to arise, there must in the first place be a wrong which is actionable because in the absence of a wrong, there can be no continuing wrong. It is when there is a wrong that a further line of enquiry of whether there is a continuing wrong would arise. Without a wrong there cannot be a continuing wrong. A wrong postulates a breach of an obligation imposed on an individual, whether positive or negative, to act or desist from acting in a particular manner. The obligation on one individual finds a corresponding reflection of a right which inheres in another. A continuing wrong postulates a breach of a continuing duty or a breach of an obligation which is of a continuing nature. ... Hence, in evaluating whether there is a continuing wrong within the meaning of Section 23 , the mere fact that the effect of the injury caused has continued, is not sufficient to constitute it as a continuing wrong. For instance, when the wrong is complete as a result of the act or omission which is complained of, no continuing wrong arises even though the effect or damage that is sustained may enure in the future. What makes a wrong, a wrong of a continuing nature is the breach of a duty which has not ceased but which continues to subsist. The breach of such a duty creates a continuing wrong and hence a defence to a plea of limitation." A continuing wrong occurs when a party continuously breaches an obligation imposed by law or agreement. Section 3 of the MOFA imposes certain general obligations on a promoter. These obligations inter alia include making disclosures on the nature of title to the land, encumbrances on the land, fixtures, fittings and amenities to be provided, and to not grant possession of a flat until a completion certificate is given by the local authority. The responsibility to obtain the occupancy certificate from the local authority has also been imposed under the agreement to sell between the members of the appellant and the respondent on the latter." While further analysing the provisions that were involved in that case namely the Maharashtra Owners of Flat Act (MOFA), it was held that there was an obligation on the builder to provide the occupancy certificate and pay for the relevant charges till the certificate has been provided. The Apex Court in paragraph 21 and 22 then held as under:- Ncdrc in its impugned order has held [ Samruddhi Coop. Housing Society Ltd. v. Mumbai Mahalaxmi Construction (P) Ltd. , 2018 SCC OnLine NCDRC 1711] that the cause of action arose when the municipal authorities ordered the payment of higher taxes in the first instance. Further, the impugned order [ Samruddhi Coop. Housing Society Ltd. v. Mumbai Mahalaxmi Construction (P) Ltd. , 2018 SCC OnLine NCDRC 1711] also states that the present complaint is barred by limitation as there is no prayer for supply of occupancy certificate. We are unable to subscribe to the view of Ncdrc on both counts. Undoubtedly, the continuing wrong in the present case is the failure to obtain the occupancy certificate. Against this act of the respondent, the appellant Society has taken appropriate action by filing a complaint before the consumer forum. The appellant is currently pursuing the execution of the order of Scdrc arising from that complaint. However, that itself does not preclude it from claiming compensation for the consequences which have arisen out of this continuing wrong. The failure to obtain the occupancy certificate has resulted in the levy of higher taxes on the members of the appellant Society repeatedly by the municipal authorities. Despite the order of 20-8-2014, the respondent has failed to obtain the occupancy certificate. This has resulted in a situation where the appellant, despite having followed the correct course of litigation in demanding the furnishing of an occupancy certificate, will continue to suffer the injury inflicted by the respondent merely due to the delay in the execution of the order against the respondent. Rejecting the complaint as being barred by limitation, when the demand for higher taxes is made repeatedly due to the lack of an occupancy certificate, is a narrow view which is not in consonance with the welfare objective of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 ." Now applying the aforesaid principles, it has to be seen as to which of the deficiencies as alleged in paragraph 6 of the complaint were existing so as to construe them as a continuing wrong to give rise to a cause of action in order to maintain the complaint. However before that it needs to be reiterated as stated in Paragraph 16 above that the deficiencies which have been alleged through the affidavit dated 17.05.2024 were causes that had accrued way back in 2009 and 2010, if at all they were existing, and the injury was complete, if any 2009 and 2010. The allegations therefore made in the said affidavit therefore represent causes which could have been raised but in fact were not raised even in the complaint in 2013. As noted above, there is no material to indicate that any such objection or deficiency was pointed out after taking physical possession in 2009-10 or even thereafter during the pendency of this complaint that was filed in 2013. Consequently, the said deficiencies do not in any way amount to a continuing cause of action or cause of action at all which is clearly barred by time and cannot be agitated as there is no explanation whatsoever of this highly belated and inordinate as well unexplained delay in making there allegations. They are otherwise also bald and unsupported by any evidence as such are declined. Coming back to the other deficiencies mentioned in paragraph 6 of the complaint, the car parking charges and the electricity charges had been realised when the payments were made according to the statement of accounts which has been appended as schedule 1 to the builder buyer agreement and is common for all the 19 complainants. The car parking charge is mentioned at serial no. E which is Rs.2 lakhs and has been paid by the Complainants. Similarly, meter/electricity installation charges of Rs.35 thousand have been mentioned against serial no.2. Similarly, club membership registration charges is mentioned at serial no.1 which is Rs.50,000/-. The chart in the statement of accounts in the case of the Petitioner No. 1 Vishal Bansal is extracted hereinunder: To begin with since the issue of limitation and continuing wrong is intertwined and has to be assessed topic wise as raised in the complaint, we proceed to decide the same in the light of the principles for limitation and continuing wrong as extracted hereinabove. Taking up the cause of car parking charges of Rs.2 lakhs, the refund has been sought by the Complainants, it would be appropriate to refer to clause I of the agreement which is appended along with the complaint as annexure P(1) collectively. The same is extracted hereinunder:- The next clause relevant is clause 1.2 (a) extracted hereinunder:- The next relevant clause which needs to be referred is clause 4 that is extracted hereinunder: In this respect, it is also relevant to refer to the clauses in respect of the definition of super area contained in Annexure 3. The said Annexure 3 is extracted hereinunder:- It is specifically made clear that the computation of Super Area of the flat does not include the following: It is further clarified that the Super Area mentioned in the Agreement is tentative and for the purpose of computing sale price in respect of said flat only and the inclusion of common area within the said building/tower for the purpose of calculating super area does not give any right, title or interest in common areas by sharing with other occupants/allottee(s) in the said building subject to timely payment of maintenance charges." The specific provision for excluding the car parking area from the super area is contained in clause D extracted hereinabove. The terminology of super area as contained in clause 1.1 is "having an approximate super area of 1712 sq.ft (159.05 sq.m.). It further provides that the areas are tentative and are subject to change till the grant of occupation certificate from the competent authority with an exclusive right to use one open/ cover car parking space. This is being mentioned as it is the specific case of the Opposite Party that the car parking area has not been sold and it is only the exclusive right to use which has been given under the flat buyer agreement to the buyer. There is no transfer of ownership but at the same time there is an exclusive right which is perpetual in nature to use the said car parking space subject to the other terms and conditions referred to in the agreement.  The contention of the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party is that it cannot be sold as there is neither any such agreement to that effect nor otherwise also can it be sold keeping in view the provisions of the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act and the rules framed hereinunder, as well as the legal position explained and mandated in the judgment of the Apex Court in the Case of Nahalchand Laloochand Pvt. Ltd. v. Panchali Co-operative Housing Society Ltd (2010) 9 SCC 536. It may be mentioned that it is the case of the Complainants that in terms of clause 3 (f) of the above mentioned Haryana Apartment Ownership Act , parking area is part of the common areas and facilities as defined therein and hence according to them the same cannot be sold or charges realised in view of the case of Nahalchand Laloochand Pvt. Ltd (Supra). However, learned Counsel for the Opposite Party submits that the Complainants, right from the inception, were aware of the realisation of parking area charges as is evident from the terms of the flat buyer agreement itself and was voluntarily paid by them which does not amount to any sale of the parking area, as the sale price of the flat does not include the car parking area within the super area which has been sold to the flat buyer. It is for this reason that the agreement describes conveyance only of an exclusive right to use one covered parking space. In the absence of any conveyance of the property, the complainants cannot compel the inclusion of the car parking within the sale deed or treat the same as part of the sale deed. Thus, there is no question of refund of the said charges as this has been explained by the Apex Court in the case of Wing Commander Arifur Rahman Khan and Aleya Sultana Vs. DLF Southern Homes Pvt. Ltd. (2020) 16 SCC 512 where in paragraph 18.10 read with paragraphs 66 to 68, they have been observed as under:- 67. We are unable to accede to the above submission. The ABA contained a break-up of the total price of the apartment. Parking charges for exclusive use of earmarked parking spaces were separately included in the break-up. The parking charges were revealed to the flat buyers in the brochure. The charges recovered are in terms of the agreement 68. The decision of this Court in Nahalchand Laloochand (P) Ltd. v. Panchali Coop. Housing Society Ltd. [Nahalchand Laloochand (P) Ltd. v. Panchali Coop. Housing Society Ltd., (2010) 9 SCC 536] turned on the provisions of the Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management and Transfer) Act, 1963 as explained in the subsequent decision of this Court in DLF Ltd. v. Manmohan Lowe [DLF Ltd. v. Manmohan Lowe, (2014) 12 SCC 231 : (2014) 5 SCC (Civ) 94] . The demand of parking charges is in terms of the ABA and hence it is not possible to accede to the submission that there was a deficiency of service under this head." It is urged that since the fact regarding Parking Area Charges in this case was declared to the purchasers right at the inception, the decision in the case of Nahalchand Laloochand Pvt. Ltd (Supra) would not come to the aid of the Complainants as distinguished by the Apex Court hereinabove. It may, however, be mentioned that in the present case as quoted hereinabove Clause I mentions exclusive right to use one open/covered parking space. However, clause 1.2(a) in the description of consideration of sale price categorically states that the price of the Flat (Sale Price) is "inclusive of the exclusive right to use" one covered car parking. The words used are "the price" and "sale price" as consideration for sale of a Flat, nonetheless while including it as part of the sale price, the right given is the exclusive right to use one covered car parking. The property sold is the super area which is understood and defined as quoted above to be the same as flat area plus the pro-rata share of common areas in the entire building. Even though Section 3(f) of the Haryana Apartment Ownership act refers to parking area to be within the meaning of common area, yet the agreement clearly states that the super area while being computed, would not include the area of facilities and amenities, and specifically the car parking area. Thus, the car parking area even though conveyed, is subject to the exclusive right to use and in short, the said parking area cannot be transferred by the flat owner as an independent legal entity and would not be subject matter of sale or transfer independent of the flat. Thus, the parking space would continue perpetually with the flat allottee and would be transferable to any successor purchaser along with the flat but not independently to any third party. This is to ensure that the parking lot is secured for the flat owner and at the same time no additional right or liability is created so as to delink the car parking space with the flat. In essence, the car parking space stood permanently wedded to the flat irrespective of its owner. In view of what has been discussed above, the aforesaid fact of charges for the Car Parking Area was therefore well known to the Complainants right from the beginning, and hence as urged by the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party the position of law as explained in the case of Wing Commander Arifur Rahman Khan and Aleya Sultana (Supra) would squarely apply on the facts of the present case.  Coupled with this, the injury in this regard if any caused to the Complainant had arisen in 2009-10 when they had taken possession after making payments of the Car Parking Area charges, and hence this part of the Complaint also was an action that had accrued at that time. There is no explanation as to why the same was not raised between two years of the limitation under Section 24-A of the 1986 Act. Consequently, the question of refund of Rs.2 lakhs of car parking charges therefore does not arise and the said relief even otherwise was in relation to a cause of action that had arisen wayback in 2009-10 when the possession was taken by the Complainants. This relief claimed in respect of car parking charges therefore is also hit by Section 24A as the Complainants had neither raised this as a deficiency after taking possession nor did they communicate about which in any manner whatsoever or file their complaint within two years of the date of the cause of action. Thus, both on merits and even on limitation, the request of refund of car parking area does not appear to be justified and is accordingly declined. Coming to the issue of electricity charges of Rs.35,000/-, the Petitioners claim refund thereof on the ground that according to the bills and invoices regarding the price of the meter the same does not exceed beyond Rs.5,000/- and therefore the charges for electricity installation and meter is without any foundation and excessive hence the same deserves to be refunded. Learned Counsel for the Opposite Party has invited the attention of the Bench to Clause 8 and Clause 22 of the agreement in this respect. They are extracted hereinunder: It is urged that the flat allottees had agreed for payment of any charges regarding installation of transformers, substations and transmissions lines and had further agreed to pay on demand proportionate share of all deposits or charges in respect of such electricity supply. In support of this allegation, the Complainants have alleged that the cost of the meter is only Rs.5,000/- and therefore there is no occasion to charge Rs.35,000/-. Learned Counsel for the Opposite Party has fairly submitted that on the basis of instructions it is correct that the cost of the meter was possibly Rs.5,000/- when it was paid but the charges that have been realised are not simply the cost of the meter but also the installation charges which includes laying of cables from the main line and for backup supply, installation of distribution panels, security for the connection and other infrastructure that was required to be set up from the feeder panel to the energy meter in each unit. For this learned Counsel for the Opposite Party has placed an approximate calculation in the shape of a chart along with their short reply filed on 01.08.2024 which is extracted hereinunder:- Further, in the event of the DEVELOPER succeeding in its challenge to the impugned legislation or Rule, Regulation or Order, as the case may be, it is hereby agreed that this Agreement shall stand revived and the FLAT ALLOTTEE(S) and the DEVELOPER shall be liable to fulfill all obligations as provided in this Agreement. It is further agreed that in the event of the aforesaid challenge of the DEVELOPER to the impugned Legislation/ Order/ Rule/ Regulation not succeeding and the said legislation/order/rule/regulation becoming final, absolute and binding, the DEVELOPER will appoint a Receiver who shall have all the rights and authority to sell the entire property and disburse the sale proceeds among the Flat holders, for the amount attributable to the said FLAT, after making payments of the statutory dues and secured creditors and after deducting interest on delayed payments. processing fee etc, and any other expenses attributable to the said FLAT. The receiver will disburse the payments within a reasonable time in such manner as may be decided by the Receiver and the FLAT ALLOTTEE(S) agrees to accept the Receiver's decision in this regard to be final and binding. Save as otherwise provided herein, the FLAT ALLOTTEE(S) shall not have any other right or claim of whatsoever nature against the DEVELOPER under or in relation to this Agreement. iii) That the FLAT ALLOTTEE(S) agrees and accepts that in case of any default/delay in payment as per the Schedule of Payments as provided in Annexure II, the date of handing over of the possession shall be extended accordingly solely on DEVELOPER'S discretion till the payment of all outstanding amounts to the satisfaction of the DEVELOPER." The period during which the possession had to be handed over was 36 months from the date of signing of the agreement with a further grace period of 90 days. Learned Counsel for the Complainant has given a chart indicating the delay which is contained in paragraph 10 of the affidavit filed on 21.05.2024. The said chart is extracted hereinunder: The issue therefore now is of any such delay in handing over possession in respect of the 19 Complainants herein. It may be pointed out from the chart disclosed by the Complainants extracted hereinabove that there are three of the Complainants namely Mr. Biju Sebastian, Ms. Usha Gupta and Ms. Chandra Kanta Gupta about whom there is no delay in handing over possession that is admitted by the Complainants. Thus, there is no question of assessing any such claim for these three complainants regarding delay compensation. Applying the principles and the ratio of the cases referred to hereinabove, the rest of the 16 Complainants other than those mentioned above are entitled for delay compensation subject to the calculation of delay period separately for each of them as non-payment thereof is a continuing wrong and therefore this claim did survive on the date when the Complaint was filed and could be subject matter of a claim of deficiency in service. We therefore allow delay compensation to these 16 Complainants at the rate of 9% of the amount paid from the due date of possession, on the expiry of 39 months from the date of agreement as per Clause 28 thereof, up to the date of offer of possession. This calculation shall be made on the basis of the dates mentioned in each of the respective agreements followed by expiry of 39 months up to the date of the letters of offer of possession. The period of delay shall be counted from the date of expiry of 39 months up to the date of offer of possession and the consequential compensation shall be computed accordingly. The said payment shall be made within three  months. Coming to the most contentious issue that seems to have been vehemently argued and also does appear to be reasonable is the issue relating to the realisation of Rs.50,000/- as club membership charges without handing over the club as contemplated under the agreement. It is here that the real issue of limitation also has to be discussed as according to the Complainants, this was a substantive continuing wrong and therefore there was a continuous cause of action available in respect of this deficiency on the date of the filing of the complaint. It would be appropriate to mention the pleadings exchanged between the parties in the light of the orders above regarding the facility of the Club. The Complainants have come up stating about the facilities of the Club in their affidavit dated 23.07.2024 filed on 29.07.2024. It is contended therein that the Club which has now been completed and handed over in 2024 was not made available previously except for a Gymnasium in the stilt area of the flat. Para 5 and 6 of the said affidavit narrates the same. It is, however, admitted in the said affidavit that Sport facilities and Swimming Pools had been provided in 3 phases of the project. It is also alleged that a Gymnasium with only four machines had been provided in the year 2010 and none of the facilities which have been provided in 2024 were ever provided by the builder. In reply to this affidavit of the Opposite party in their affidavit dated 01.08.2024 in paragraph 9 has rolled out a chart alleging that the amenities were existing since 2009-10 and are the same amenities that have been provided under the New Club in 2024. What is projected by the Opposite Party as if the Club premises along with its facilities were existing except for the Restaurant and Rooms for occupation on chargeable basis, the open place and hall for gatherings and the Club and the billiards room and table tennis that has been provided now. It is thus evident that the Club with an open space and hall for gatherings which was meant for social activities as per Clause 9 of the agreement including the restaurant and rooms for occupation on chargeable basis had not been provided earlier. It is this contention of the Complainants regarding the Club that has to be considered in the light of the arguments advanced. The allegation of deficiency with regard to the delay in handing over the aforesaid amenity has been argued by the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party contending that what was promised under the brochure was a Health club that was separately mentioned in Annexure 5 appended to the flat buyer agreement. The said Health club was an amenity that was separate from the Club as referred to in clause 9 of the agreement. It is urged that the said Health club as offered was set up and was continued for decades together in the stilt area by including a provision for a gym, yoga corner, table tennis, etc. that continued to be enjoyed by all the flat owners and was a facility available that was provided as promised. Other sporting facilities including swimming pools were also provided. Thus, there was no deficiency in so far as providing the Health club or other facilities are concerned. This argument has been contested by the Complainants contending that the provisions made as alleged were absolutely in sufficient and as a matter of fact it is the flat owners who had to replace all such equipment that was needed for the Gym and had to be refurbished for its enjoyment by the flat owners themselves.  She has referred to her reply and urged that all these expenses were borne and the invoices dated 06.12.2021, 11.12.2021 and 24.05.2023 have been placed to demonstrate that these facilities were acquired by the Complainants themselves which the Opposite Party has to reimburse. This deficiency also deserves to be compensated as the amenities were not provided in terms of the promise made in the brochure as also in the flat buyer agreement that refers to the Club and Health club separately. Learned Counsel for the Opposite Party submits that if any replacement of gym equipments were needed after almost a decade of its utilisation by the Complainants, the same was not the responsibility of the Opposite Party inasmuch as the entire facilities were initially installed and then handed over to the Resident Welfare Association to take care the same. There is no perpetual obligation on the part of the Opposite Party to continue to maintain the Health club which after being handed over ceases to be an obligation of the Opposite Party. This otherwise also is outside the scope of the complaint which relates only to refund of Club membership charges and has no concern with the Health club amenity which is a facility other than the club referred to in the complaint. The said contention of the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party regarding the Health club appears to be correct inasmuch as the Health club is an amenity that was promised under the brochure and also mentioned separately in clause 9 and Annexure V to the flat buyer agreement. Thus, this health club admittedly had been set up but the allegation of the Complainants is that they had to purchase and replace the old equipments which were insufficient and had not been supplied by the Opposite Party. We are unable to accept this submission inasmuch as this was not the cause of action complained of regarding the Health club facilities. Even otherwise learned Counsel for the Opposite Party is correct in her submission that this is not an obligation of the Opposite Party to perpetually maintain the Health club facilities which is now under the control of the Resident Welfare Association. Thus, this was not even a cause of action and therefore does not fall within the subject matter of the dispute, hence any claim of payment of equipments for the health club is untenable and not within the scope of this complaint. However, the complaint is with regard to the amount of Rs.50,000/- charged for the Club facility which is a separate establishment in terms of clause 9 of the agreement. Clause 9 is extracted hereinunder:- Relying on the said clause, learned Counsel for the Opposite Party has contested the said issue by contending that this facility was to be offered simultaneously or after the development work. Thus, an occupancy certificate with regard to the club was applied in the year 2011 which was granted in 2019 where after the Club has been handed over to the Resident Welfare Association and the said facility is in place. It is urged by the learned Counsel that there was no timeline provided for the same and consequently the allegation of any absence of such a provision in the past or delay in providing the same cannot be a cause of action in terms of the clause 9 of the agreement. It is urged that this club premises has been set up and the charges of Rs.50,000/- realised from the Complainants is justified. The Complainants have come up contending that clause 9 categorically promises for the provision of a club to be developed for the purpose of social activities for which membership is to be availed by the occupants of the flat buyers. A sum of Rs.50,000/- has been consciously charged which is captioned as Club Membership Registration Charges (CMRC) which are the same charges as referred to in clause 9. The Complainants have brought on record through the reply dated 21.05.2024 that this dispute had been carried up to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning Department and it was on their intervention through the letter dated 19.07.2003 that the club was handed over later on. The actual delivery of possession did not take place till 22.04.2024. For this, reliance is placed on Annexure CA2 and Annexure CA3 to the reply dated 21.05.2024 which are on record. A perusal of the said documents indicate that the contest with regard to handing over of this facility ultimately crystallised in 2024 in the manner as has been demonstrated by the Complainants. The Club had therefore not been provided as promised under Clause 9 till 2024. The contention of the learned Counsel for the Opposite Party that the same could have been developed at the sweet will of the developer in terms of Clause 9 at any time of the development or even thereafter is an absolutely unacceptable argument inasmuch as a sum of Rs.50,000/- from each of the Complainants had been realised on demand when the possession was offered and physical possession was taken over by them after payment in 2009-10. The amount therefore had been realised by the Opposite Parties and therefore they were obliged to have fulfilled their promise. The said premises of a Club was meant for the social activities of the residents that is established from the terms of the agreement. The Opposite Party cannot invoke the words "thereafter" occurring in clause 9 to mean an unending and an open ended time limit to offer the facility. The said argument is not only unreasonable but is absolutely against the promise made for which payments had been duly received by the Opposite Parties long back when possession was delivered in 2009-10. The deprivation of the facility of the club is a clear deficiency.  The retention of Rs.50,000/- and not providing the Club is therefore a clear breach of Clause 9 of the agreement and which admittedly was provided on the intervention of the DTPC as is evident from letter dated 19.07.2023 quoted hereinabove and the subsequent delivery of possession on 22.04.2024. This facility was clearly promised but not delivered in spite of the charges having been realised from the complainants and hence this was a clear continuing wrong and an existing deficiency which now stands established by the documents on record as discussed hereinabove. Consequently, the amount of Rs.50,000/- paid by the Complainants deserves to be compensated in a reasonable manner as this money had been enjoyed and retained by the Opposite Parties since the date of the delivery of possession. Thus, all the Petitioners are entitled to interest on the sum of Rs.50,000/- at the rate of 9% p.a with effect from the date of the payment of Rs.50,000/- as per the statement of accounts up to 22.04.2024 when the club premises was actually handed over by the Opposite Party as is evident from the said letter referred to hereinabove. 64.The complaint is therefore accordingly partly allowed in respect of compensation for delayed handing over of possession and Club Membership Charges to the aforesaid extent. The amounts payable shall be paid within three months from today and in the event of any default, the rate of interest shall stand enhanced to 12%. .........................J A. P. SAHI PRESIDENT     ................................................ DR. INDER JIT SINGH MEMBER