India’s largest health insurance provider, Star Health, has suffered a data breach with the personal data of potentially 31 million users put for sale on Telegram, reported Reuters on September 20. The hacker created chatbots on Telegram that would provide random samples from the database on request and was offering the bulk for sale. These samples included Personally Identifiable Information (PII) like policy and claims, documents featuring names, phone numbers, addresses, tax details, copies of ID cards, test results, and medical diagnoses. The hacker, who operated under the alias xenZen, alleged that they possessed 7.24 terabytes of data related to over 31 million Star Health customers.

However, Star Health claimed that there was no widespread compromise of their systems in the data breach and that sensitive customer data remained secure. The insurer stated that an unidentified person had approached it on August 13 and claimed to have access to some of its data, after which it contacted the authorities. The chatbots have also proven persistent, as more pop up when Telegram suspends them.

Telegram has been in hot water recently as its founder Pavel Durov was arrested by French authorities over a police investigation into criminal networks operating on the platform.

Multiple jurisdictions have unearthed criminal activities on the platform. In 2019, South Korean authorities discovered an online gang that had blackmailed 70 women into taking explicit images of themselves and sold them on Telegram chat rooms. Similarly, in India, the MeitY issued a notice to Telegram and other social media platforms to take down Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) from their platforms on the Indian internet in October 2023.

Even after Durov’s arrest, the Indian government began investigating the company for extortion and gambling. Eventually, Durov agreed to improve Telegram’s content moderation system, even adding a button to report illegal content to moderators.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event