AMIT BANSAL, J. I.A. 29793/2024 (under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC ) and I.A.
 36110/2024 (under Order VII Rule 10 and Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC ) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 1 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 I. PREFACE 1. Influencer marketing has emerged as a pivotal force in India's digital
 landscape reshaping how consumers connect with brands across sectors, from
 fashion and beauty to food, technology and finance. 2. This surge in the influencer marketing industry is largely attributable to
 increased internet penetration, proliferation of affordable smartphones and
 rise of regional content creators who cater to diverse audiences across the
 country. Platforms like Instagram and YouTube, which serve as primary
 channels for influencers to share content and collaborate with brands, have
 become central to this phenomenon. 3. The impact of social media influencers however extends beyond mere
 advertising. Apart from being the trendsetters introducing new products and
 brands to their target audiences, social media influencers have also taken up
 the role of watchdogs amplifying the concerns raised by the consumers. 4. Inasmuch as it comes off as an opportunity for consumers to ensure
 their right to know, democratization of internet has also increased the potential
 for harm caused to individuals and businesses by spread of misinformation.
 Since influencers shape consumer behaviour, their critique significantly
 impacts a brand's reputation, which is why there is also an undeniable tension
 between business entities and the influencer community. 5. This necessitates the need to balance the right of such influencers to
 their freedom of speech and expression and the right of individuals and
 business entities to their reputation. 6. The present case is illustrative of the tension that prevails between
 social media influencers and business entities. The present suit has been
 instituted by the plaintiff seeking relief of permanent injunction restraining
 the defendants, who are social media influencers and have posted videos on
 YouTube and/ or Instagram regarding the plaintiff and one of its products,
 alleging infringement of trade marks, defamation, disparagement and unfair
 trade practices. 7. This case shall explore the limits of freedom of speech and expression
 under Article 19(1)(a)1 in light of Article 19(2)2 of the Constitution of India
 (hereinafter 'Constitution') concerning allegedly defamatory and disparaging
 remarks made by social media influencers in respect of third-party goods/
 services. 8. In view of the importance of the issue involved, the Court, vide order
 dated 2nd December 2024, appointed Mr. Aditya Gupta and Mr. Varun Pathak
 as amici curiae to assist the Court in the present suit. 9. With the aforesaid background, I proceed to adjudicate I.A.
 29793/2024, the application filed on behalf of the plaintiff under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (hereinafter
 ' CPC ') seeking an interim injunction against the defendants no.1 to 4 and I.A.
 36110/2024, the application filed on behalf of the defendant no.1 under Order 1 19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.-- VII Rule 10 of the CPC and Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC seeking return/
 rejection of plaint. II. PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUIT 10. Summons in the present suit and notice in the application for interim
 injunction were issued to the defendants on 21st May 2024. 11. Pleadings qua the plaintiff and the defendant no.1 in the suit are
 complete. 12. As recorded in the order of Joint Registrar dated 21 st August 2024, all
 the defendants stand served. However, none has entered appearance on behalf
 of the defendants no.2 to 4 till date nor has any written statement been filed
 on their behalf. 13. The parties as well as the amici curiae have filed their respective written
 submissions, along with judgments in support. 14. Submissions on behalf of counsel for the parties as well as the amici
 curiae were heard on 28th October 2024, 2nd December 2024, 16th December
 2024, 15th January 2025, 3rd February 2025 and 13th February 2025, when the
 judgment was reserved. III. CASE SET UP BY THE PARTIES

 CASE SET UP BY THE PLAINTIFF 15. The case set up by the plaintiff in the plaint may be summarized as
 under: 15.7. The plaintiff's products under the plaintiff's marks are available at
 various offline retailers, supermarket chains and are also sold through various
 e-commerce websites such as www.amazon.in and www.flipkart.com.
 15.8. The plaintiff has been continuously and uninterruptedly marketing and
 selling its products under the plaintiff's marks. The sales figures of the
 plaintiff and its predecessors since the year 2018-19 to 2023-24 are given in
 paragraph 21 of the plaint. The plaintiff's total sales in the year 2023-24 alone
 was Rs. 18,85,00,000/-. 15.9. The plaintiff undertakes various advertisement and business
 promotional activities for the plaintiff's marks and incurs huge expenses in
 relation to the same. The plaintiff also engages various celebrities and
 influencers on social media platforms to promote its products. The
 advertisement and business promotional expenses of the plaintiff and its
 predecessors since the year 2018-19 to 2023-24 are given in paragraph 22 of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 6 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 the plaint. The plaintiff's total advertisement and business promotional
 expenses in the year 2023-24 alone was Rs. 1,71,00,000/-.
 15.10. The defendants no.1 to 4 are youtubers/ influencers/ content creators
 who own and operate their accounts/ channels on social media platforms
 including but not limited to YouTube, Instagram and Facebook wherein they
 create and upload content, primarily in the form of videos/ reels, and
 disseminate information for views on several topics including health
 supplements and related products. 15.11. The particulars of the defendants no.1 to 4 are given as under: The defendant no.6 is Meta Platforms Inc. that owns and operates the social
 media platform Instagram (hereinafter 'Meta'/ 'Instagram') wherein the
 defendants are uploading and circulating the impugned videos. The defendant
 no.7 is Ashok Kumar, i.e., unknown defendants. 15.13. The plaintiff conducts various market surveys and research in relation
 to the marketing and sale of the plaintiff's products. While reviewing the sales
 figures for September 2022 and the months thereafter, the plaintiff was
 surprised to find them far below the projection. 15.14. The plaintiff's sale of its product under the mark DC DOCTOR'S
 CHOICE ISO PRO (hereinafter 'plaintiff's product'/ 'ISO PRO') has
 spiralled downwards ever since the impugned videos surfaced on the internet.
 The same is highlighted by the graph below: However, in its reply dated 29th March, 2024, Google refused to remove the
 impugned videos from its platform stating that it is not in a position to
 adjudicate the veracity of the posts and it does not remove videos based on
 allegations of defamation. CASE SET UP BY THE DEFENDANT NO.1 16. The case set up by the defendant no.1 in the written statement is as
 follows: The cause of action further arose when the defendant no.1 published the
 impugned video 6 on 5th December 2022 on YouTube. The suit is barred by
 limitation as it has admittedly been instituted beyond the time period
 prescribed for instituting a suit claiming defamation (compensation for libel)
 under Article 75 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 , which is one
 year from the date on which the libel is published. 20.2. The legislative policy would be defeated if mere continued residing of
 the allegedly defamatory material on a website were to give a continuous
 cause of action to the plaintiff to sue for defamation/ libel. In this regard, he
 relies on the judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Khawar Butt v.
 Asif Nazir Mir3 , wherein it has been held that a 'single publication rule'
 would apply in cases of libellous post on social media, i.e., the period of 3 2013 SCC OnLine Del 4474 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 13 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 limitation would commence from the date when the first libellous post is
 made. 20.3. The predominant cause of action and the primary reliefs sought by the
 plaintiff in the present suit do not pertain to intellectual property rights, but
 defamation as the plaintiff has failed to make out a case for infringement of
 trade marks or disparagement of the plaintiff's product against the defendant
 no.1. 20.4. The plaintiff has failed to establish the intertwined nature of the causes
 of action claimed in the present suit. 21. Mr. J. Sai Deepak, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff,
 has made the following submissions: Therefore, the present suit is not maintainable before this Court. 29. Once again, I cannot accept this submission. As observed earlier, the
 present suit is a composite suit also involving the aspects of trade mark
 infringement and disparagement. The suit would therefore be covered under Section 2(1)(c)(xvii) of the CCA and would qualify as a commercial suit. 30. In view of the above, I do not find merit in the aforesaid application,
 and the same is dismissed. 31. This application has been filed seeking an interim injunction against
 the defendants restraining infringement of trade marks, defamation,
 disparagement and unfair trade practices. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF 32. Mr. J. Sai Deepak, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff,
 has made the following submissions: Therefore, in the impugned video 6, the defendant no.1 has taken a stand
 contrary to his stand taken in the impugned video 1. Impugned Videos 2 and 3
 32.1.7. The defendants no.2 and 3 have created the impugned videos 2
 and 3 respectively placing reliance on the misleading laboratory reports
 produced by the defendant no.1 in the impugned video 1 without undertaking
 any laboratory testing of the plaintiff's product by themselves.
 32.1.8. The defendants no.2 and 3, in their respective videos, have made
 unauthorized use of the plaintiff's marks, both orally and visually, and have
 made false claims regarding the plaintiff's ISO PRO.
 32.1.9. The defendant no.2 has also made use of the plaintiff's marks as
 hashtags such as #DoctorsChoice and #IsoPro in the description of the
 impugned video 2 to attract the attention of consumers.
 32.1.10. The defendant no.3 has used the term SCAM in the title of the
 impugned video 3 and mentioned the link to the impugned video 1 in the
 description. Further, the defendant no.3, in his video, has falsely stated that
 the plaintiff's ISO PRO product label claims to have 90% protein per serving.
 Impugned Videos 4 and 5
 32.1.11. The thumbnail of the impugned video 4 bears the plaintiff's
 marks and also includes the words 'Fake Protein'. Such words/ statements
 influence the opinion of any person who come across the aforesaid video
 regardless of whether or not they watch the same. The aforesaid claim, along
 with other claims, made by the defendant no.4 in the aforesaid videos are
 completely unsubstantiated and have been made to showcase the products of
 the plaintiff's competitors in a good light. 32.1.12. The defendant no.4's claims in impugned video 4 regarding the
 protein content in the plaintiff's ISO PRO are based only on the test
 undertaken by him in the aforesaid video itself. Further, the aforesaid test has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 19 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 been undertaken by using a do-it-yourself (DIY) Kit, namely, 'MB Procheck
 Kit' of the plaintiff's competitor 'MuscleBlaze', and the same is not FSSAI
 approved. Thus, the results of such a test are misleading and cannot be relied
 upon. 32.1.13. In the impugned video 5, the defendant no.4 has made slanderous
 statements with respect to the plaintiff and its products which are
 unsubstantiated and amount to brand disparagement. Recently, the defendant
 no.4 also posted and pinned a comment on the impugned video 5 bearing
 coupon/ discount codes for products of the plaintiff's competitors.
 32.1.14. The aforesaid videos are paid advertising and promotional
 videos undertaken by the defendant no.4 for a third-party competitor brand
 called 'MuscleBlaze', which is evident from the title, description and content
 of the aforesaid videos. However, the defendant no.4 has failed to
 acknowledge or inform the viewers about these paid advertisements.
 32.2. The aforesaid acts on behalf of the defendants amount to defamation,
 disparagement, infringement and dilution of the plaintiff's marks and damage
 and tarnish the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff.
 32.3. There can be no justification for the defendants to use the images/
 videos of the plaintiff's product to make wrongful, biased and targeted
 remarks against the plaintiff. The aforesaid dishonest and unauthorized use
 constitutes infringement of trade mark and copyright.
 32.4. The defendant no.1's reliance on the defence of truth cannot absolve
 him of his liability for infringement through product disparagement. Further,
 the disclaimer put by the defendants in the impugned videos cannot absolve
 them of any liability relating to disparagement of the plaintiff's product. 32.5. The third laboratory report produced by the defendant no.1 issued by
 Eurofins is not relevant to the present suit as the same does not form part of
 the impugned videos of the defendant no.1. 32.6. The defendant no.1 does not possess the necessary qualifications in the
 field of health and nutrition. Further, his actions have been irresponsible,
 reckless and rooted in malice which is evident from his use of words such as
 'ghatiya' to refer to the plaintiff's products. The defendant no.1 cannot justify
 calling the plaintiff's brand 'ghatiya' and, at the same time, claim to be
 exercising his journalistic freedom. 32.7. The defendant no.1, in the impugned video 1, stated that due to the
 shocking results of the first laboratory report, he had placed another order for
 the same product. However, he had placed the second order for the plaintiff's
 ISO PRO on 22nd May 2022, i.e., prior to receiving the first laboratory report
 on 24th May 2022. This confirms that the defendant no.1 undertook the
 aforesaid laboratory tests with the predefined purpose of showcasing the
 plaintiff's product in a bad light. 32.8. The defendant no.1 has vested interest in diminishing the brand value
 of the plaintiff and cannot take the defence of constructive criticism for the
 public good or journalistic freedom. He is running a business and promotes
 nutraceutical products of the plaintiff's competitors which is evident from his
 videos, social media accounts and operations under 'Trustified'. Through his
 Trustified website, the defendant no.1 allows the general public to purchase
 third-party products from the aforesaid website itself, where he also avails
 customized promotional codes to customers. However, the defendant no.1 did
 not disclose any of these facts in his videos. Therefore, the defendant no.1
 fails to comply with the 'Guidelines for Influencer Advertising in Digital Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 21 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 Media' issued by the Advertising Standards Council of India (hereinafter
 'ASCI Guidelines'). 32.9. The defendants, by making misleading statements, has been able to
 negatively influence members of the public that the plaintiff's product does
 not pass the required testing parameters and should not be consumed.
 32.10. The negative influence on the consumers and public and damage
 caused to the plaintiff's brand are evident from the comments made by the
 viewers on the impugned videos. The effect of the impugned videos on the
 plaintiff's consumer base is also evident from the customer reviews posted on
 its listings on e-commerce websites stating that the plaintiff's product contains
 only half the protein than what is being claimed by it.
 32.11. The defendants have relied upon each other's videos. By creating the
 impugned videos at regular interval, the defendants have worked together to
 bring down the plaintiff's goodwill and reputation and drive down its sales by
 promoting its competitors' products in the impugned videos. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT NO.1 33. Mr. Ramchandra Madan, counsel appearing on behalf of the defendant
 no.1, has made the following submissions: Even if the defendant no.1 is not an expert, his comments in the impugned
 videos 1 and 6 are based on laboratory reports. 33.8. In a suit for defamation, the entire content must be read as a whole and
 there can be no selective reading of the content to establish defamation.
 Further, a case for disparagement cannot lie against the defendant no.1 as he
 is not engaged in a competing business with the plaintiff.
 33.9. The content of the impugned video 6 was satirical in part wherein the
 defendant no.1, without exclusively naming the plaintiff and certain other
 protein brands, addressed to them by pseudo-names, which were broadly
 satirical in nature, to point out the sub-standard quality of their products.
 Therefore, the same cannot constitute as defamation/ disparagement nor as
 infringement of any trade mark. 33.10. Neither of the impugned videos 1 and 6 contains any sponsorship or
 affiliate links for products of any other company. Thus, the defendant no.1 has
 not advertised any third-party product in the impugned videos 1 and 6.
 33.11. The defendant no.1 does not have any control over the opinions of, and
 decisions made by, third-parties/ viewers. 33.12. The defendant no.1 has no relation with other defendants. No basis has
 been provided by the plaintiff to suggest that the defendants have ever worked
 together for any specific goal, let alone that of harming the plaintiff.
 33.13. The plaintiff has not been able to make out a prima-facie case against
 the defendant no.1. Balance of convenience lies in favour of the defendant
 no.1 as his reporting is closely intertwined with public health and welfare and
 he has substantiated his claims with laboratory reports. The plaintiff has also Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 24 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 failed to show that irreparable harm would be caused to it if an interim relief
 is denied to it. THE LEGAL REGIME IN INDIA WITH REGARD TO DEFAMATION AND
 DISPARAGEMENT 34. Both the amici curiae appointed by this Court have placed before this
 Court well-researched notes along with judgments with regard to the position
 in law in relation to cases of defamation and disparagement. A. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF MR. ADITYA GUPTA 35. As correctly highlighted by Mr. Aditya Gupta, one of the learned amici
 curiae in his submissions, the present case involves the interplay and
 balancing between the following three rights recognized under the
 Constitution: 36. Insofar as the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article
 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is concerned, the same is circumscribed by
 limitations provided under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. One of the
 restrictions imposed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution is in respect of
 defamatory statements. 37. The present suit filed by the plaintiff is primarily based on three
 different causes of action, namely, (i) defamation (ii) disparagement and (iii)
 trade mark infringement. Mr. Aditya Gupta, in his written note of submissions, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 25 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 has alluded to the scope and extent of defamation and disparagement in the
 context of the present case and the defences available to the defendants in
 respect of each of these causes of action, which I proceed to discuss below. A.1 Defamation 38. Defamation is recognized as an actionable tort under the common law
 geared to protect the reputation of a person. Any oral or written statement,
 which includes a video, that lowers or tends to lower the reputation of a
 claimant, is considered to be defamatory. However, all defamatory statements
 are not actionable as the law provides certain defences that are available to
 the defendant in a defamation suit. These defences are as follows: 39. In the context of the present case, only the defences of 'truth' and 'fair
 comment' would be relevant. In defamation, the burden of proving the
 aforesaid defences would lie on the defendant. (a) Defence of Truth/ Justification 40. It is a settled position of law that truth or justification is a complete
 defence to an action for defamation. The onus is on the defendant to show that
 the statement made by him was true or substantially true (refer Pankaj Oswal
 v. Vikas Pahwa5 and Ram Jethmalani v. Subramanian Swamy6 ). 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1193, ¶ 30 6 2006 SCC OnLine Del 14, ¶ 95 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 26 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 41. In Ram Jethmalani (supra), a Coordinate Bench of this Court has taken
 a view that the defence of truth cannot be defeated on account of malice. In
 other words, even if the defendant acted with malice, so long as the statement
 made by him is a true statement, the element of malice is to be ignored. 42. Clearly, the defence of truth is put at a higher pedestal and would
 prevail over any claim over reputation. The underlying principle is that when
 a person speaks the truth, he should be able to do so without any fear or
 liability of defamation. (b) Defence of Fair Comment 43. The defence of fair comment provides protection for statements made
 on the basis of honest opinion, as opposed to statements of facts. 44. In Branson v. Bower7, the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court
 of Justice in England and Wales has explained that the defence of fair
 comment allows citizens to express hard-hitting opinions on matters of public
 interest in an honest manner without the fear of being brought before courts. 45. In Ram Jethmalani (supra), the Court has observed that in order to
 succeed in a plea of fair comment, the defendant has to establish the
 following: 46. Unlike the defence of justification or truth, malice would be a relevant
 factor to be considered while dealing with the defence of fair comment.
 Therefore, in a given case, if the court is of the view that the statements made
 by the defendant are such that he believed them to be correct on the basis of
 facts available to him, the defendant would be entitled to invoke the defence
 of fair comment. 47. The defendant should clearly differentiate between a factual statement
 and a comment in a manner that the listener/ viewer/ reader is able to know
 that the statement is the personal opinion of the defendant. If the defendant
 knows that his comments are based on untrue facts or are made without any
 attempt to determine the truth, it would be assumed that the comments were
 made with malice. In Tata Sons v. Greenpeace9 , a Coordinate Bench of this
 Court observed that the onus of proving malice in the comments made by the
 defendant lies on the plaintiff. A.2 Disparagement 48. An action for disparagement falls within the tort of malicious falsehood
 and it seeks to protect the economic interest of the plaintiff, as opposed to its
 reputation in the case of defamation. Disparagement would involve making
 statements about the plaintiff's goods or services which are untrue or
 misleading and are made to influence the public in a manner not to buy the
 said goods or avail the said services. 2011 SCC OnLine Del 466 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 28 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 49. In Dabur India v. Colortek Meghalaya10 , a Coordinate Bench of this
 Court observed that commercial speech will amount to disparagement if the
 following ingredients of malicious falsehood is established by the plaintiff: 50. The judgment in Dabur (supra) has been upheld by the Division
 Bench11 and the aforesaid test laid down therein was followed by a Coordinate
 Bench of this Court in Hindustan Unilever v. Cavincare12 . 51. Unlike an action for defamation, the burden of proving falsehood of the
 impugned statement made by the defendant lies on the plaintiff in an action
 for disparagement. This difference is on account of the inherent nature of the
 two actions - defamation is directed towards protecting the reputation of a
 person while disparagement is directed towards protecting the economic
 interests of a person. 52. Since the entire cause of action in a disparagement suit is based on
 making false statements to cause damage to the plaintiff's goods, the element
 of malice is inherently a part of it. However, a statement made believing it to
 be genuinely true would negate the claim of malice. This has been explained
 by a Division Bench of this Court in Reckitt Benckiser v. Gillette India13 , the
 relevant extracts from which are set out below: [emphasis supplied]

 A.3 Interim Injunction in cases of Defamation and Disparagement 53. The courts in India have consistently followed the Bonnard principle as
 laid down in the judgment of the Court of Appeal (England and Wales) in
 Bonnard v. Perryman14, wherein it was held that an interim injunction should
 not be granted unless the defence set up by the defendant was bound to fail in
 trial. It was held that the courts must exercise exceptional caution while
 granting injunction before trial in defamation cases as it impinges upon the
 right to free speech of an individual. In the aforesaid case, the Court agreed
 that the character of publication was libellous, however, it was observed that
 the defence of justification raised by the defendant can only be tested in a trial.
 Hence, the interim injunction was refused. The relevant extracts of the said
 judgment are set out below: [emphasis supplied] 54. In Fraser v. Evans15, the Court of Appeal (England and Wales)
 followed the Bonnard principle and held as follows: [emphasis supplied] 55. The aforesaid principle laid down in Bonnard (supra) and followed in
 Fraser (supra) was also adopted by the Supreme Court of India in Bloomberg
 Television v. Zee Entertainment16. The Supreme Court observed that grant of
 an interim injunction may have severe ramification on the right to freedom of
 speech of the author and the public's right to know, hence unless the content
 is 'malicious' or 'palpably false', interim injunction should not be granted.
 The relevant observations of the Supreme Court in paragraph 10 of the
 judgment in Bloomberg (supra) are set out below: 56. The Bonnard principle was also followed by a Division Bench of this
 Court in Khushwant Singh v. Maneka Gandhi17 , wherein it was held that
 people have a right to hold a particular view and express the same freely in
 matters of public interest. The Court has to balance the two competing
 interests, i.e., of an author to write and publish and of an individual against
 invasion of privacy and threat of defamation. However, the aforesaid
 balancing has to be considered at the stage of claim of damages for defamation
 and not at the stage of interim injunction. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF MR. VARUN PATHAK 57. Mr. Varun Pathak, the other learned amicus curiae appointed by this
 Court, has placed before the Court the following judgments on the aspect of
 defamation and disparagement by social media influencers. 57.1. Marico v. Abhijeet Bhansali18 57.1.1. This is a case relating to Marico (plaintiff) suing the defendant,
 who was a social media influencer and had his own YouTube channel. It was
 argued on behalf of the plaintiff that the defendant, through the impugned
 videos posted on his YouTube channel, disparaged the plaintiff's product by 17 2001 SCC OnLine Del 1030, ¶ 69 and 71 18 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 60 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 32 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 stating that it was of inferior quality. The defendant took a defence that the
 statements made by him in his videos are true and constitute his bona fide
 opinion. 57.1.2. A Single Bench of the High Court of Bombay held that the
 impugned videos posted by the defendant amount to a 'commercial speech'
 since the purpose behind posting the said videos was to earn revenue.
 Applying the triple test for disparagement, the Court granted an interim
 injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant. The summary
 of the conclusions of the Court, as set out in paragraph 120 of the judgment,
 are reproduced below: [emphasis supplied]
 57.1.3. To be noted, a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, vide
 its order dated 14th February 2020, stayed the operation of the aforesaid
 judgment, subject to the appellant (defendant) agreeing to make certain
 modifications in the impugned video.19 19 Abhijeet Bhansali v. Marico , 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 265 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 33 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 57.2. Unilever v. Naresh Gehani20 57.2.1. In the present case, Unilever (plaintiff) filed a suit against certain
 social media influencers having huge public following impugning their posts
 on social media platforms disparaging the frozen desserts sold by the plaintiff.
 The Court held that the impugned videos named and targeted specific
 products of the plaintiff and showed them in a poor light as being harmful and
 dangerous to health. Hence, an ex-parte ad interim injunction was passed in
 favour of the plaintiff. 57.3. Zydus v. Prashant Desai21
 57.3.1. Since this judgement has also been extensively relied upon by
 the plaintiff, it has been analysed in a later part of this judgment. C. JUDGMENT OF A COORDINATE BENCH OF THIS COURT IN GREENPEACE (SUPRA) 58. In this case, Greenpeace India (defendant no.2) had created an online
 game called 'Turtle v. TATA' with the objective to bring to the public's notice
 the alleged destruction of Olive Ridley Turtles Nesting Habitat by
 construction of a port by the plaintiff. While showing the plaintiff therein as
 the antagonist, the defendant no.2 used the name of the plaintiff as well as its
 logos. 59. Applying the Bonnard principle, as followed by the Division Bench in Khushwant Singh (supra), the Court did not grant an interim injunction in
 favour of the plaintiff. The principles that weighed with the Court in not 20 2023 SCC OnLine Cal 6570 21 2024 SCC OnLine Del 7018 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 34 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 granting the interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff may be summarized
 below: ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 60. I have examined the material on record including the impugned videos.
 Now I proceed to apply the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case. 61. In the present case, it is an admitted position that the defendant no.1 is
 a social media influencer with a huge following on social media platforms
 such as YouTube and Instagram. The defendant no.1 claims to be a personal Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 35 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 trainer certified from American Council of Exercise and a sports science
 nutritionist certified from K-11 School of Fitness Science. The defendant no.1
 has filed his certificate issued by American Council on Exercise along with
 the written statement (refer page 1 of the documents filed with the written
 statement). The defendant no.1 started his YouTube channel
 @AllAboutNutrition in April 2019 and his two videos, which are the subject
 matter of the present suit, were posted by him on his YouTube channel on 1 st
 June 2022 (impugned video 1) and 5th December 2022 (impugned video 6). 62. It is the case of the plaintiff that the aforesaid videos are defamatory in
 nature and disparage the plaintiff's product. Per contra, the defendant no.1
 justifies the aforesaid videos on the grounds of 'truth' and 'fair comment'. 63. The case set up by the defendant no.1 is that he received a number of
 complaints regarding the sub-standard quality of the plaintiff's product from
 his subscribers and accordingly, he decided to carry out an investigation. The
 defendant no.1, using a pseudonym, ordered one unit of the plaintiff's product
 from Amazon on 9th May 2022, which was sent for testing to the first
 laboratory VAL. As per the results of the laboratory report dated 24th May
 2022, 100 grams of the plaintiff's ISO PRO has a protein content of 45.17
 grams and a carbohydrate content of 47.62 grams. 64. In order to double check the results, the defendant no.1 ordered another
 unit of the plaintiff's ISO PRO from Amazon on 22 nd May 2022. The
 defendant no.1 also recorded the entire process of taking the packed product
 received by him to the second laboratory MTL. The results of the second
 laboratory report dated 28th May 2022 shows that the protein content in the
 plaintiff's product is 51%. 65. The results of both the laboratory reports were in sharp contrast with
 the claims made by the plaintiff on the label of the plaintiff's product, i.e., it
 has protein content of 83.87% and carbohydrate content of 1%. The label of
 the plaintiff's ISO PRO, as set out in the written statement, is reproduced
 below: 66. Based on the aforesaid two laboratory reports, the defendant no.1
 published the impugned video 1 on 1st June 2022. The total length of the
 impugned video 1 is 14:39 minutes. 67. I have seen the impugned video 1 and the following aspects emerge
 therefrom: 68. I have also seen the impugned video 6 posted by the defendant no.1 and
 the following points may be highlighted therefrom: 69. Now I shall examine whether the aforesaid impugned videos amount to
 defamation and/ or disparagement of the plaintiff's product ISO PRO and
 whether the defendant no.1 is entitled to the defences of 'truth' and/ or 'fair
 comment'. 70. The defendant no.1 has taken the defence of truth on the basis of two
 reports obtained by him from two independent laboratories. Both the
 laboratory reports confirm the fact that the claim made by the plaintiff with
 regard to protein content in the plaintiff's product is untrue. 71. After the impugned video 1 was uploaded, in order to ensure that he
 has reported correctly, the defendant no.1 once again ordered two units of the
 plaintiff's product from the plaintiff's website and one unit in a sealed
 condition was sent to Eurofins, which is NABL accredited and is also
 recognized by FSSAI. The test report issued by Eurofins also revealed that
 the protein content in the plaintiff's ISO PRO was 52.17 grams per 100 grams
 and the carbohydrate content was 35.33 grams per 100 grams. 72. To be noted, the plaintiff has nowhere questioned the veracity of the
 findings in the laboratory reports relied upon by the defendant no.1 nor has it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 40 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 submitted any laboratory report or other scientific material of its own to rebut
 the findings of the laboratory reports relied upon by the defendant no.1. The
 plaintiff has only questioned the credibility of the laboratories issuing the
 aforesaid reports on the ground that they are not recognized by FSSAI and
 therefore their reports cannot be relied upon. 73. The aforesaid argument overlooks the fact that the function of FSSAI
 under Section 4322 of the FSS Act is not to provide recognition or
 accreditation to laboratories for conducting tests. Under Section 43 of the FSS
 Act, FSSAI recognizes laboratories, research institutions, etc. only for the
 purpose of carrying out acts/ functions covered under the FSS Act .
 Nonetheless, all the laboratories where the plaintiff's product was sent for
 testing by the defendant no.1 are NABL accredited. MTL and Eurofins are
 also recognized by FSSAI under Section 43 of the FSS Act. Therefore, at a
 prima facie stage, the laboratory reports relied upon by the defendant no.1
 cannot be disregarded only on account of the fact that the laboratories in
 question were not recognized by FSSAI to test the plaintiff's product. The
 veracity of the results of the laboratory reports can only be tested at the stage
 of trial. At an interim stage, the Court is only required to take a prima facie
 view if the defendant no.1 has been able to establish his defence of truth of
 the assertions made by him with regard to the results of the aforesaid
 laboratory reports. 43. Recognition and accreditation of laboratories, research institutions and referral food
 laboratory.-- (1) The Food Authority may notify food laboratories and research institutions accredited by National
 Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories or any other accreditation agency for the
 purposes of carrying out analysis of samples by the Food Analysts under this Act.
 (2) The Food Authority shall, establish or recognise by notification, one or more referral food laboratory
 or laboratories to carry out the functions entrusted to the referral food laboratory by this Act or any rules
 and regulations made thereunder. 74. Mr. J. Sai Deepak contends that the test report issued by Eurofins is not
 relevant to the present suit as the same does not form part of the impugned
 videos 1 and 6. I am unable to agree with the aforesaid contention. The results
 of the third laboratory test, even though do not form part of the impugned
 videos 1 and 6, confirms the results of the aforesaid two reports cited in the
 impugned video 1 and therefore strengthens the defence of truth taken by the
 defendant no.1. 75. The plaintiff has not placed any material in justification of the claims
 made by it on the label of the plaintiff's product with regard to nutritional
 information. The only justification offered by the plaintiff is that the
 nutritional information given in the label of its products is based on
 information provided to the plaintiff by the manufacturer of the said products. 76. In my opinion, this justification is completely untenable. The plaintiff
 cannot disown the nutritional information given on the label of the products
 being sold by it under its own brand/ mark on the ground that it is not aware
 of such nutritional information and the same has been put by a third-party
 manufacturer. Even if the plaintiff's products are manufactured by a third-
 party, any false claim therein, including the alleged false claim regarding the
 nutritional information on the product label, would be the plaintiff's
 responsibility and the plaintiff would be accountable for the same, especially
 since the said products are offered and sold to the customers under the
 plaintiff's marks. 77. Mr. J. Sai Deepak further contends that the laboratory tests were
 undertaken by the defendant no.1 with the mala fide intent and predefined
 purpose of showcasing the plaintiff's product in a bad light inasmuch as the
 defendant no.1 placed the second order for the plaintiff's product on 22 nd May Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 42 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 2022, i.e., prior to receiving the first laboratory report, the date of which is
 24th May 2022. 78. In my considered view, just because the defendant no.1 conducted a
 second test without waiting for the results of the first test, would not establish
 any malice. 79. Based on the discussion above, at a prima facie stage, the Court finds
 that the defendant no.1 has established the defence of truth. (b) Defence of Fair Comment 80. When examined in the light of legal principles in relation to the defence
 of fair comment as elucidated above, in my considered view, the defendant
 no.1 would also be entitled to the defence of fair comment, at least at a prima
 facie stage. The essence of his videos is only to educate the consumers, who
 could also be diabetic patients, students or athletes, that the protein content in
 the plaintiff's product is much less than what is claimed and the carbohydrate
 is in excess of the claim made and to advise them to carefully examine and
 consider all factors before selecting any brand of protein powder for purchase.
 He encourages the consumers to conduct their own test before making a
 choice. The comments made by the defendant no.1, in my prima facie view,
 forms an honest opinion of the defendant no.1 based on 'sufficient factual
 basis', i.e., the aforesaid test reports from accredited laboratories. 81. The plaintiff's product relates to the fitness and nutrition industry,
 which affects the health and well-being of consumers. Therefore, in terms of
 the dicta of Ram Jethmalani (supra), the subject on which the comments were
 made by the defendant no. 1 is a matter of public interest. Further, the
 comments that were made by the defendant no.1 were what he believed to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 43 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 correct on the basis of the investigation carried out by him. On the other hand,
 the plaintiff has not been able to establish malice on the part of the defendant
 no.1, at least at a prima facie stage. 82. One of the grievances of the plaintiff is that the defendant no.1 has
 disparaged the plaintiff's products by referring to the plaintiff's brand as
 'ghatiya', which as per the plaintiff is an unparliamentary reference. I cannot
 agree with the aforesaid submission. In my view, the word 'ghatiya' would
 mean nothing more than 'sub-standard'/ 'inferior' in English. In the opinion
 of the defendant no.1 based on the aforesaid test results, the products of the
 plaintiff are sub-standard inasmuch as they are priced higher in comparison
 to the products of other brands and are not true to the claims made by the
 plaintiff. In Branson (supra), it was held that a fair comment is not defeated
 by exaggerated, rude or offensive language. In Greenpeace (supra), the
 defendant had used the expression 'demon' in respect of the plaintiff and this
 Court held that such a reference was insufficient to establish malice on the
 part of the defendant. In my opinion, at the highest, the use of the term
 'ghatiya' would be in the nature of an exaggeration or hyperbole, which would
 not be defamatory per se. 83. In the impugned video 6, the plaintiff's mark DOCTOR'S CHOICE has
 been referred to as 'DOCTOR HAS NO CHOICE'. The reference to the
 plaintiff in the impugned video 6 as 'DOCTOR HAS NO CHOICE' is prima
 facie satirical in nature. This Court in Greenpeace (supra) has also held that a
 satirical reference is permissible under the right to freedom of speech and
 expression enshrined under the Constitution. Further, the defendant no.1 has
 not only referred to the plaintiff's mark as such but also five other third-party
 brands using pseudonyms in a satirical sense. This prima facie shows that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 44 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 defendant no.1 has no mala fide intention to defame the plaintiff or disparage
 its products. 84. The plaintiff has also placed reliance on the ASCI Guidelines insofar as
 they relate to 'Health and Financial Influencers'. The plaintiff submits that in
 terms of the said Guidelines, influencers in the field of health and nutritional
 products and services must have necessary qualifications to render advice and
 these qualifications must be stated in their posts and publications. 85. In my considered view, the reliance placed by the plaintiff on the
 aforesaid Guidelines is misplaced. The defendant no.1 has based his opinion
 in the aforesaid videos on test results obtained from laboratories which are
 purely factual in nature. 86. Further, as noted above, the impugned videos 1 and 6 do not include
 any sponsorship or paid promotion of any third-party brand and therefore do
 not qualify to be 'advertisements' to be covered under the ASCI Guidelines.
 ASCI23 itself defines an advertisement as: [emphasis supplied] 87. In light of the above, the ASCI Guidelines would not apply to the
 defendant no.1. In any case, the qualifications of the defendant no.1 are
 irrelevant in the present case since he is backing his comments with the test
 reports issued by accredited laboratories. The Code for Self-regulation of Advertising Content in India, at page 6 (Ed: April 2025) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 45 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 88. The plaintiff has also sought to discredit the defendant no.1 by stating
 that he runs another channel on YouTube under the name 'Trustified', which
 operates on commercial lines and wherein he promotes competing products
 of rival brands. It is contended that the defendant no.1 has failed to disclose
 these facts in the impugned videos 1 and 6. This contention, however,
 overlooks the fact that the aforesaid channel was launched by the defendant
 no.1 only in January 2023, i.e., after the aforesaid impugned videos had been
 published. There is nothing to suggest that at the time when the aforesaid
 videos were published, the defendant no.1 had any affiliation with or
 sponsorship of any third-party brand or was commissioned by a rival brand to
 defame the plaintiff or disparage its products. Therefore, there cannot be any
 question of disclosure of interest by the defendant no.1 when the aforesaid
 impugned videos were published. 89. Therefore, on a prima facie consideration, the defendant no.1 has
 established a bona fide defence of fair comment. Disparagement 90. It has been held by the Supreme Court that 'commercial speech' is a
 part of the right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article
 19(1)(a) of the Constitution (refer Tata Press v. Mahanagar Telephone
 Nigam Limited24 ). In Tata Press (supra), the Supreme Court held that
 commercial speech benefits the public as it helps in dissemination of
 information about a product to the public at large. However, it was clarified 24 (1995) 5 SCC 139, ¶ 25 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 46 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 that commercial speech that was deceptive, unfair, misleading or untruthful
 would be restricted under Article 19(2) of the Constitution25. 91. On the aspect of disparagement, it cannot be disputed that the defendant
 no.1 was not engaged in a competing business with the plaintiff, at least at the
 time when the impugned videos 1 and 6 were published by him. It is a settled
 position in law that any commercial speech would amount to disparagement
 only when all the three ingredients of (i) untrue and misleading statement, (ii)
 malice on the part of the defendant and (iii) special damage to the plaintiff are
 established. As discussed above, the defendant no.1 has established a bona
 fide defence of 'truth' as well as 'fair comment' inasmuch as there is a factual
 basis for the comments made by him in his videos. Further, at this prima facie
 stage, the plaintiff has failed to establish malice or a motive to cause damage
 or injury to the plaintiff. On the aspect of special damage, at this stage, there
 is nothing to show that the alleged drop in the sale of the plaintiff's product is
 attributable to the impugned videos. 92. Therefore, the plaintiff has also failed to make out a prima facie case
 for disparagement against the defendant no.1. Impugned Video 2 by the Defendant No.2 93. I have seen the impugned video 2 and would like to underline the
 following aspects: Impugned Video 3 by the Defendant No.3 94. I have seen the impugned video 3 and the following facts have surfaced
 therefrom: 95. Pertinently, the plaintiff has filed the screenshots/ storyboard of the
 impugned video 3 in the present suit, however the aforesaid clip of a youtuber/
 social media influencer promoting the plaintiff's product has not been
 disclosed. The transcript of the impugned video 3 in the plaint starts only from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 48 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 00:13 minutes. It is an admitted position that the plaintiff engages various
 celebrities and influencers on social media platforms to promote its products. 96. The plaintiff's main grievance with respect to the defendants no.2 and
 3 is that they did not undertake any laboratory test by themselves and have
 relied upon the misleading reports of laboratory tests undertaken by the
 defendant no.1 in their respective videos. 97. In my considered view, there is nothing wrong in the defendants no.2
 and 3 relying upon the tests conducted by the defendant no.1. Further, the
 defendant no.2 has clearly stated in his video that he is only giving
 information with regard to the plaintiff's product and asks the consumers to
 make their own choice. It is also stated that he expects the plaintiff to work
 on the plaintiff's product to improve its quality. Therefore, on a prima facie
 view, the defendants no.2 and 3 are engaging in constructive criticism of the
 plaintiff's product. Impugned Videos 4 and 5 by the Defendant No.4 98. I have seen the impugned video 4 and would like to highlight the
 following: 99. The plaintiff contends that the results of the test conducted by the
 defendant no.4 in the aforesaid video are misleading on the ground that the
 aforesaid DIY kit is not FSSAI approved. The plaintiff, however, has not
 placed any material to question the efficacy or reliability of the aforesaid DIY
 test kit. A perusal of the description of the impugned video 4 further shows
 that the aforesaid DIY kit has been validated by 'NABL-Accredited SGS S.A.
 labs (Switzerland headquartered largest global lab network)'. Therefore, the
 test results of the aforesaid DIY test kit have to be accepted at a prima facie
 stage, especially in light of the fact that the results of the aforesaid test
 conducted by the defendant no.4 are more or less in line with the results
 obtained by the defendant no.1 from NABL accredited laboratories. 100. As regard the plaintiff's contention that the aforesaid video was a paid
 advertising and promotional video published by the defendant no.4 for a
 competing brand 'MuscleBlaze', there is nothing to back this allegation. The
 defendant no.4's use of name/ mark of the competing brand 'MuscleBlaze' in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 50 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 the title/ description/ content of aforesaid video is only to refer to the Kit used
 by him to conduct the aforesaid test. 101. As regards the use of the words 'Fake Protein' by the defendant no.4,
 in my view, it appears to be nothing more than an exaggeration or hyperbole. 102. The impugned video 5 does not exist on YouTube anymore. It appears
 that the said video has been taken down already. To be noted, the plaintiff has
 not even filed the complete storyboard of the impugned video 5 with the
 plaint. 103. Based on the discussion above, even though the defendants no.2 to 4
 have not appeared in the present suit and have not filed their written
 statements, in my considered view, they would also be entitled to the defences
 of 'truth' and 'fair comment' at an interim stage. The plaintiff has also failed
 to prima facie establish malice on the part of the defendants no.2 to 4.
 Therefore, on a prima facie view, no case of actionable defamation or
 disparagement has been made out against the defendants no.2 to 4. Judgments relied upon on behalf of the Plaintiff 104. The plaintiff has placed reliance on the judgment of the High Court of
 Calcutta in C.V. Ananda Bose v. Mamta Banerjee26, wherein it has been held
 that in appropriate cases where the Court is of the view that the impugned
 statements have been made in a reckless manner in order to cause injury to
 the reputation of the plaintiff, the Court would be justified in granting
 injunction. Paragraph 40 of the said judgment is set out below: 105. In my view, the aforesaid judgment has no application in the facts of
 the present case as the impugned statements in the present case have not been
 made in a reckless manner. On the contrary, as discussed above, they are
 backed up by test reports. 106. The plaintiff has also relied upon the judgment in Zydus v. Prashant
 Desai (supra) in respect of its submission that a social media influencer is not
 entitled to speak on a subject of which he is not the master and cannot express
 his views/ opinions without any substantive basis. In the said case, Zydus
 (plaintiff) filed a suit against the defendant, who was a social media influencer
 and had posted disparaging and defamatory video in respect of one of the
 plaintiff's products. It was the case of the plaintiff that the defendant had
 conveyed half-truths and distorted factual nutritional and scientific statements
 to claim that the sugar content in the plaintiff's product was 200% in excess
 of the daily requirement of children, which is harmful for them. After a
 detailed analysis, holding that a social media influencer cannot express his/
 her ideas or opinions freely without any substantive basis and/ or backing, the
 Court granted an interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant. 107. The aforesaid judgment also does not advance the case of the plaintiff
 in the present case as in the present case, the statements made by the
 defendants in the impugned videos are not unsubstantiated and are based on
 objective material. 108. The plaintiff has also placed reliance on the judgment of a Coordinate
 Bench of this Court in Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation v.
 Akshar Foods and Beverages27 in support of its submission that disparaging
 remarks about any brand/ product cannot be made without properly verifying
 the underlying facts. 109. The aforesaid judgment would also be of no assistance to the plaintiff
 herein as in the said case, the defendant was a competitor of the plaintiff. Trade Mark Infringement 110. The plaintiff has also alleged that the impugned videos amount to
 infringement of the plaintiff's registered mark inasmuch as the defendants
 make a reference to the plaintiff's registered mark in their respective videos.
 The plaintiff relies upon sub-sections (4) and (8) of Section 29 of the Trade
 Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter 'the Act'). For ease of reference, sub-sections
 (4) and (8) of Section 29 of the Act are set out below: [emphasis supplied] 111. Under sub-section (4) of Section 29 of the Act set out above, the
 expression used is 'uses in course of trade'. Clearly, in the present case, the
 defendants have not used the plaintiff's marks, including by way of hashtags
 in the description of the impugned videos, in the course of trade. The
 plaintiff's marks have been used by the defendants not in respect of their
 goods/ services, but only to review the plaintiff's own goods. In Greenpeace (supra), the Court has observed that breach of sub-section (4) of Section 29 of
 the Act would happen only when another commercial or entrepreneurial body
 is exploiting the plaintiff's trade mark. Further, a reference to sub-section (8)
 of Section 29 of the Act would show that it is applicable only when the subject
 matter of the dispute is an advertisement. In the present case, sub-section (8)
 of Section 29 of the Act has no application as the defendants are not using the
 plaintiff's marks as a part of an advertisement. CONCLUSION 112. In view of the discussion above, the plaintiff has failed to show that the
 defences of 'truth' and 'fair comment' put up by the defendants are palpably
 false and/ or are bound to fail at the stage of trial. On a prima facie view, the
 plaintiff has also failed to make out a case for disparagement against the
 defendants as it cannot be said that the contents of the impugned videos are
 false or misleading or have been made in a malicious manner with an
 objective to cause damage or injury to the plaintiff. 113. Therefore, applying the Bonnard principle as approved by the
 judgements of the Supreme Court as well as this Court, the plaintiff has failed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHARMENDER SINGH CS(COMM) 420/2024 Page 54 of 55 Signing Date:28.04.2025 14:45:09 to make out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction against the
 defendants and the statements made by the defendants would be entitled to
 protection of free speech. 114. The plaintiff has also not been able to establish a prima facie case for
 infringement of trade marks/ copyright against the defendants. 115. The balance of convenience would also be in favour of the defendants
 and granting an interim injunction would be to their prejudice as it would
 result in putting fetters on their right to freedom of speech and expression
 guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and would also deprive
 the right of the public at large to receive information on matters of health. 116. Accordingly, the plaintiff's application for interim injunction is
 dismissed. 117. The Court highly appreciates the valuable assistance rendered by Mr.
 Aditya Gupta and Mr. Varun Pathak, the learned amici curiae, in the present
 suit. CS(COMM) 420/2024 118. List before the Joint Registrar on 7th July 2025 for further proceedings. AMIT BANSAL
 (JUDGE)

 APRIL 28, 2025
 Vivek/-