American cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase announced an investment in Indian cryptocurrency giant CoinDCX through a press release on October 15. CoinDCX is also a cryptocurrency exchange and is India’s first unicorn startup in the blockchain space. The investment is intended to strengthen Coinbase’s presence in India and the Middle East.

The company did not specify the exact details of the investment; however, CoinDCX CEO Sumit Gupta posted that the deal would place his company’s valuation at $2.45 billion.

“India and the Middle East are set to play a big role in the future of crypto – and CoinDCX is a high-growth, financially sound business built for scale at the center of the region’s massive growth opportunity,” said Shan Aggarwal, Coinbase’s chief business officer, in the press release.

Fueling the Next Phase of Growth 🚀 I am excited to share that @Coinbase has entered into an agreement to make an investment in @CoinDCX (closing subject to regulatory approvals) valuing us at $2.45B post-money. But this isn't just about capital, it is about conviction in our… pic.twitter.com/zwodLXGTjY

This would be Coinbase’s third investment in CoinDCX after an initial $2.5 million investment from Polychain Capital and Coinbase Ventures in 2020, followed by a Series D round in 2022 with a $2.3 million investment.

In July this year, CoinDCX had announced a loss of around Rs 368 Crore from a “sophisticated security breach” that compromised and entirely drained an internal operational account used for liquidity provisioning. The company absorbed the loss through its own reserves.

The hackers had allegedly posed as recruiters offering a part-time job and lured a CoinDCX software engineer into installing malware on his company laptop. Authorities soon arrested the engineer and confiscated the laptop.

The company’s annualised group revenue stood at Rs.1,179 crore as of July 2025, with annualised transaction volumes across products being Rs. 13.7 lakh crore. It had over Rs. 10,000 crore in assets under custody.

Coinbase returned to India earlier this month, following an initial attempt in 2022 that ended unceremoniously. The company had attempted to integrate the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) into its system, but the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), the governing body for the UPI system, refused to recognise Coinbase’s launch. The crypto firm had to suspend UPI integration only days after launch.

The company eventually blocked new signups from Indian users in 2023, after failures to gain support from regulators. India’s Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) also blocked nine foreign cryptocurrency platforms the next year, including prominent names like Binance and Kraken.

However, regulators seemed to be softening their stance on Virtual Digital Assets (VDA), including cryptocurrencies. Earlier this year, the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) secretary Ajay Seth, revealed that India would be revisiting its cryptocurrency regulatory framework following global circumstances. RBI Governor Sanjay Malhotra also suggested that the Indian government’s hardline stance on cryptocurrency could potentially soften

Foreign crypto firms are also trying to re-enter India. Binance registered with the Financial Intelligence Unit last year, six months after the FIU blocked it.

In March this year, Coinbase also announced that it had registered with the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of India, indicating its return to the Indian market.

However, Indian regulators seem to be keeping a close eye on the industry all the same. Just this month, the FIU issued notices to 25 VDA providers for non-compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The action came under Section 13 of the PMLA, which mandates registration and reporting obligations for entities dealing in VDAs.

The list included global crypto exchanges and platforms such as Huione, BC.game, Paxful, Changelly, CEX.IO, LBank, Youhodler, BingX, PrimeXBT, BTCC, CoinEx, Remitano, Poloniex, BitMex, Bitrue, LCX, Probit Global, BTSE, HIT BTC, LocalCoinSwap, AscendEx, Phemex, ZooMex, CoinCola and CoinW.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event