The United Nations Ad-Hoc Committee adopted the ‘UN Convention against Cybercrime’, which aims to create a uniform convention for tackling cybercrimes globally and outlines various procedural measures for member states to follow. Member States in the UN General Assembly will now consider and debate the treaty, before signing and ratifying it.

The treaty suggests the member states work with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), civil society, academia, private sector, security researchers, service providers, and law enforcement to address relevant aspects of preventing and combating cybercrime offences. It calls for the sharing of information and the provision of technical and financial assistance between states through harmonization of standards, skills, capacity, expertise and technical capabilities.

The Convention criminalizes the following activities, and calls upon each State Party to adopt necessary legislative and other measures to establish them as criminal offences under its domestic law:

Laws must be enforced effectively and proportionately and must deter repeat offences. The State must ensure that the prosecuted person enjoys all rights and guarantees in conformity with domestic law and international obligations. This includes the right to a fair trial and the right to defence. It must also take measures to protect children accused of offences, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Early release or parole of persons must take into account the gravity of the offences concerned.

The State Party must ensure conditions and safeguards that comply with International Human Rights law and the principle of proportionality. It should permit independent review, effective remedies, justified applications, and limit procedure scope and duration. These safeguards must apply to domestic criminal investigations as well as cases requiring international cooperation.

State Party must allow their authorities to expedite preservation of specified stored electronic data- including traffic data, content data and subscriber information, particularly if it’s vulnerable to loss or modification. It must adopt legislation wherein a person must cooperate with authorities and store data for up to a maximum of 90 days and keep the investigation confidential. States must expedite the traffic data preservation regardless of multiple service providers. It should provide the competent authority with sufficient access to traffic data to identify the service providers and the path used for communication transmission.

Authorities can demand a person in its territory or a service provider offering its services in its territory to submit data such as subscriber information.

The State must have the power to seize any electronic data storage medium and make and retain copies. It must also be able to make inaccessible or remove that electronic data in the system. Authorities can be empowered to order any person who has the knowedge of any systems storing this data.

States and relevant authorities can collect or record said data in their territory and also compel a service provider to do so. It can also require a service provider to keep any such action confidential.

The State’s legislation must enable the confiscation of proceeds of crime as well as converted equipment, income, or other benefits derived from it. It must also empower its courts and authorities to demand financial or commercial records from banks, regardless of bank secrecy. Offenders can demonstrate the lawful origin of alleged proceeds of crime or other property liable to confiscation.

Any previous conviction in another State of an alleged offender must be collected for the criminal proceedings.

Witnesses who give testimony, their relatives and other persons close to them, should be protected from potential retaliation or intimidation. Measures should be taken for their physical protection and safety. These could include relocation, non-disclosure or limitations on their identity and whereabouts, permitting testimony to be given through the use of communications technology such as video links or other adequate means. States Parties can consider entering into agreements or arrangements with other States for the relocation of these witnesses.

In cases of threat of retaliation or intimidation, States must take measures to assist victims. They must establish appropriate procedures to provide access to compensation and restitution for victims. In cases of victims of sexual crimes, states must take measures for their physical and psychological recovery, in cooperation with relevant international organizations, non-governmental organizations, and other elements of civil society. It must also take into account the age, gender, and the particular circumstances and needs of victims and ensure removal of the illegal content.

International cooperation must take place in investigation and prosecution and the collecting, obtaining, preserving and sharing of evidence.

Personal data must be shared as per a state’s domestic law or applicable international law. States Parties may deny the transfer of personal data if it does not comply with their data protection laws. Jurisdictions are encouraged to establish bilateral or multilateral arrangements to facilitate the safe transfer of personal data according to respective legal frameworks.

In the case of several separate criminal offences, extradition is valid if one of the charges is extraditable according to the convention. Jurisdictions must streamline extradition, ease evidence requirements, and guarantee fair treatment regardless of sex, race, language, religion, nationality, ethnicity, or political views. A State cannot deny another state’s extradition request. The sole exception to this is if the state can assure the requesting state that it will try and sentence the person according to its domestic laws. States must create treaties for extradition processes and inform the UN Secretary-General who shall keep updated a register of authorities responsible for the same. States must not ignore the rights of sentenced persons and take into account issues relating to consent, rehabilitation, and reintegration.

In cases involving multiple jurisdictions, transfer of criminal proceedings can concentrate the prosecution and administer justice fairly. States that do not have a treaty regarding this can use this Convention as the legal basis for the same.

The Convention affords mutual legal assistance to all State Parties under relevant laws, treaties, agreements and arrangements for investigations, prosecutions and judicial proceedings and evidence collection.

State Parties must transmit relevant information to an authority without prior request. They must also transmit information that is exculpatory to an accused person. They must provide assistance to another State when necessary. Central authority shall have the responsibility and power to receive requests for mutual legal assistance and Secretary-General of the United Nations must be notified of all communication taking place. The information requested must be confidential and limited to that which was requested.

A State may deny assistance to another State if its request does not conform with the Convention or domestic law or threatens sovereignty, security, public order or other essential interests or is discriminatory. It may not refuse a request solely citing “fiscal matters” or “bank secrecy.” A State party can transfer a sentenced or detained person from one State Party to another state for testimony, following their informed and freely given consent.

The receiving state has an obligation to keep the person transferred in custody and return them safely. The person transferred shall receive credit for service of the sentence. State should permit the hearing to take place by videoconference if it is not possible or desirable for the individual in question to appear in person foreign territory.

States must create a 24/7 network and establish a point of contact of trained personnel that have the capacity to carry out communications with the point of contact of another State Party on an expedited basis. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be notified of such point of contact and keep an updated register of the same. A State can use the network for technical advice, collection of evidence, locating suspects and data sharing to prevent emergencies.

States may use the 24/7 network to access this data. However, states have the right to refuse if the request cannot fulfil the condition of dual criminality or if it threatens the confidentiality of an ongoing investigation.

There must be effective coordination between competent authorities of State Parties. They must promote the exchange of personnel and other experts, exchange information and coordinate administrative and other measures taken subject to bilateral agreements or arrangements. It must also assist in conducting inquiries, identifying whereabouts, and activities of persons or proceeds of crime or property for an investigation.

States must consider creating bilateral or multilateral agreements for joint investigations and creating provisions on a case-by-case basis.

A State party must enable the confiscation of a property as issued by a court of another State Party. It must also freeze, seize or preserve property on the basis of a foreign arrest or criminal charge.

Investigation proceeds must be used to compensate the victims and property must be returned to the prior legitimate owners. States Parties can also divide proceeds on a regular or case-by-case basis. States may deduct reasonable investigative expenses unless decided otherwise.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event