SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Just came back from my first trip to India and loved it!
DATE: 2019-11-19
SCORE: 91
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dy8ms7/just_came_back_from_my_first_trip_to_india_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I should start off with a big thank you to the country of India and its people. My friend and I just came back from our first (and hopefully not last) visit to your country. In one word, we found it fascinating. Loved loved loved our trip overall. In many ways, it's so different from my own country (Canada) but there are always universal similarities.

We flew into Delhi right during the worst of the air pollution. Despite possibly sacrificing a few days of my lifespan, we saw a good number of attractions in south and central Delhi. The Qutub Minar was stunning, as was the Lodhi Gardens. The touts weren't nearly as bad as I thought. It was mostly just tuk tuk drivers waiting outside the Metro stations looking for customers. On a related note, Delhi's Metro system is really fast, cheap and efficient! It was certainly a different experience having my bag x-rayed and being patted down for every trip, but I guess you guys have heightened security concerns.

Then we took an overnight train to Jodhpur. I gotta say that Old Delhi Railway Station is a nightmare to navigate (no indicators on the platforms to indicate where each carriage stops and virtually no one to ask), but we eventually figured it out. We ended up taking five train journeys during our trip and miraculously, all five of them arrived on time. We rode either First AC or Chair Car for all of them and they were perfectly fine.

Jodhpur is a beautiful city. Mehrangarh Fort and wandering the neighbourhoods with the blue-painted homes was a real treat.

Next was Jaipur, which was a bigger city, but had a lot of neat things to see. Amer Fort was a real highlight. By this point, we had gotten used to all the honking and general traffic chaos. You guys really like using your horns but never using your turn signals!

Sawai Madhopur/Ranthambore NP was next. The town itself had nothing of note to see, but wedding season had apparently kicked off, so there were some really colourful processions and wedding receptions at night. Ranthambore Fort was probably my favourite fort that I saw on this trip. We were even lucky enough to see a pair of tigers during one of our game drives in the park.

Agra was next up on the list. Agra Fort and the Baby Taj were nice to visit, but of course the Taj Mahal was the highlight. What a stunning and astonishingly beautiful building. We even found the secret sunset spot the night before to see it. Agra itself didn't seem to have much to offer and was very dusty.

Varanasi was probably our favourite city on this trip. I'm not a religious person, but to be in a place with so much piety and faith was very moving. The ghats are almost magical. Serious question though: do the locals not get sick from constantly bathing in such dirty water?

Happy to say that we managed not to fall for any scams while in India. I researched them ahead of time and other than paying a bit more for tuk tuks than a local would (which is unavoidable), we did really well. Uber worked in most of the cities, which was a real godsend. I was also amazed that Google Maps was remarkably accurate, even in the labyrinthine alleys of Varanasi and Jodhpur. We were however really surprised by how many stray dogs there are in your country. They were everywhere, which was sad to see.

Fantastic and very well-priced food everywhere we went, so that was great. Overall, we just loved what we saw and would definitely go back one day and see other parts of the country. India seems to work in a perpetual state of organized chaos. It shouldn't work, but it just seems to keep chugging on.