This is the FIRST bail application filed by the applicant under section
 4 3 8 of Cr.P.C. who is apprehending his arrest in connection with Crime
 No.156/2023 registered at Police Station Sohagpur, district Narmada Puram, for
 the offences punishable under sections 366A , 376(2)(n) , 376(3) and 506 of
 I.P.C., section 5 / 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sections 3(1)(w)(i) , 3(1)(w)(ii) and 3(2)(va) of the Scheduled Castes and the
 Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. According to the prosecution case, the applicant entered into physical
 relationship with the minor complainant, aged about 14 years, belonging to
 Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe, on a false pretext of marrying her. He made
 her pregnant and compelled for abortion. Thereafter, he got married to another
 girl belonging to his own caste pursuant to which the complainant lodged the
 FIR against the applicant for the aforesaid offences. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent
 and has been falsely implicated. The applicant is a young boy aged 24 years and
 if he is arrested then his career will be ruined. The applicant is a permanent
 resident of district Narmada Puram and there is no likelihood of his absconding

 leaving behind the family to suffer. Investigation is incomplete. Therefore, on
 these grounds learned counsel prays for grant of anticipatory bail to the
 applicant. Learned counsel also submits that the applicant had even lodged a
 complaint dated 25.2.2023 at the women police station, Narmada Puram, for a
 fair enquiry into the matter. He has also submitted that the father of applicant
 has also filed a complainant before the DGP, IG and SP as also at Police
 Station Sohagpur alleging that the accused persons are running a "Honey Trap
 Racket" to falsely implicate the innocent persons in order to collect money from
 them and thereafter blackmailing. Per contra, learned counsel for the State forcefully objected for grant
 of anticipatory bail to the applicant and prayed for its rejection. Heard the learned counsel for both the parties at length and perused
 the case diary. The matter relates to allegation of repeated penetrative sexual assault
 on a minor girl belonging to the Scheduled Caste. Considering the allegation and
 prima facie evidence on record and in view of interdict contained in section 18 Signature Not Verified Signed by: PRASHANT SHRIVASTAVA Signing time: 5/11/2023 5:31:28 PM 3 of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)
 Act , no case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out. Thus, considering the matter available on record and the arguments of
 party, without commenting on merits of the case, this Court is not inclined to
 grant anticipatory bail to the applicant. The application sans merit is hereby dismissed. (SANJEEV S KALGAONKAR)
 JUDGE
 ps Signature Not Verified Signed by: PRASHANT SHRIVASTAVA Signing time: 5/11/2023 5:31:28 PM