SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Freecharge Wallet Scam
DATE: 2016-08-22
SCORE: 213
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4z1viu/freecharge_wallet_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

For those of you who don't know, Freecharge is an e-wallet used to make mobile &amp; DTH recharges and payments on few online portals. One can add money to this wallet but can only withdraw it after 7 days of adding the money. I recently added Rs 10000 in my Freecharge wallet for shopping etc hoping I will withdraw the remaining unused amount. But before I could withdraw my money on the 7th day, I receive a message from Freecharge that I have sent my money, Rs 9700 precisely, to some mobile number. I notice this message within 2 minutes of the transaction. Assuming that my account was hacked, I immediately decide to call Freecharge hoping to ask them to reverse the transaction and block my account asap. To my surprise, I find out that they don't have a helpline and can only be reached via email. So I drop them an email and tweet to their Twitter id hoping they would call me asap to resolve this issue. I receive a reply 4 hours later that they are looking into this and till date, I have got no phone call from their end. I keep emailing &amp; tweeting them for the next 7 days and all I get are templated responses from their end. Finally on the 8th day, they tell me that I must have shared my password with someone and because of that I lost my money. (Lol right?)
In essence, they won't do anything to reverse the transaction or refund my money or catch the culprit! All my emails and tweets since then have fallen to deaf ears.
I meanwhile decide to confront the guy to whose number my money was transferred to but find out he has no clue what a Freecharge wallet is! I doubt him at first but then he tells me that someone must have registered his number at Freecharge. He suspects so because he submitted an OTP on a website which gave 50rs recharge in exchange for it. I finally connect the dots to conclude this is indeed a big scam. Someone has set up a chain of fraud Freecharge wallets with different mobile numbers whose owners have no clue their wallet is being used for such fraud! Their only mistake is that they gave in to greed of a 50 rupee recharge. The culprit transfers money from hacked accounts to such numbers before buying snapdeal vouchers or shopping. Freecharge knows about this scam because I have a recording of their agent discussing this with the person to whose number my money was transferred to. Still they won't do anything about it.
I then find out there are many more ppl (15+) who were duped of approximately Rs 10k each! None of them received an OTP which is otherwise mandatory to transfer money on Freecharge and everyone got this message on the 7th day of adding money. This makes me suspect that the real culprit is someone from inside freecharge itself. We have started a petition asking RBI to cancel Freecharge's license. RBI guidelines also mandate refund of stolen money since the theft was a result of a shortcoming of their system. Please help me spread the word and sign this petition. 
https://www.change.org/p/reserve-bank-o-india-cancel-licence-for-unsecure-wallets-like-freecharge