The European Union is set to look into Meta-owned platforms Facebook and Instagram due to concerns that the company has not been able to do the needful to prevent disinformation originating from Russia, as well as from other countries, ahead of elections in several EU member states.

According to a report by the Financial Times citing those privy to developments, the administrative body is set to observe that regulators suspect Meta’s content moderation did not do enough to tackle electoral advertising, which in turn risked the electoral process.

Officials were of the opinion that mechanisms Meta employs to let users flag illegal content are not user friendly or easily accessible enough to comply with the EU Digital Services Act – a landmark legislation that is implemented for the supervision of online content within the bloc. In case of violation of the DSA, Meta can face fines of up to 6% of its global annual revenue, the report also noted.

Purportedly, the EU is not expected to single out Russia in its statement and will refer broadly to the manipulation of information by foreign actors. The probe represents the latest EU crackdown on Big Tech amid growing fears among member states about Russian disinformation offensives on social media ahead of the European elections. It will assess whether Facebook and Instagram’s placement of political content violates the new DSA rules.

Investigators will also analyse risk mitigation strategies, including Meta’s decision to discontinue of its social research tool CrowdTangle , and will give the company five days to respond with measures it promises to undertake in order to stabilize the situation.

“We have a well-established process for identifying and mitigating risks on our platforms. We look forward to continuing our cooperation with the European Commission and providing them with further details of this work”, the report quoted a Meta spokesperson as saying.

This comes after Meta announced earlier this year that it was going to launch a dedicated Elections Operations Centre in the European Union ahead of elections for the European Parliament in June, 2024, in order to catch the spread of AI-generated misinformation. As part of this, it said it would make available a rating options called ‘altered’ for fact-checkers, that would include “faked, manipulated or transformed audio, video, or photos.” In action, Meta said when a piece of content is rated as altered, a fact-checked label would be attached to it and distribution of the same on people’s feeds will be reduced.

Additionally, it also said advertisers running ads on social issues, elections, or politics on Meta’s platforms will be required to disclose if they use a photorealistic image or video, or realistic-sounding audio, which has been created or altered digitally.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event