SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Rant about engineering in India
DATE: 2024-10-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1gclegi/rant_about_engineering_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay this is going to be veryy long rant

For context I am in my final year of engineering in a tier-3 college. I did get a decent job in my campus placements and in a way better position right now than many of my classmates but honestly this placement season was an eye opener for me

I took ECE out of pure interest and always wanted to make a career here. But ohh god these past 3 years sucked the life and interest out of me. The curriculum is so bad and outdated that we actually don't learn anything that is of use for industry. I never learnt how to use a PCB being an ECE student. All the labs are just a big scam where we used just memorize around 12 to 14 codes or some basic experiments every sem for passing the lab exams. Even if we do want to learn what they actually do, there was no one to tell us. If we ask the faculty, they always used to tell us to memorize them that's it. Equipment is decades old ready to break anytime. And records they were a real pain and I still hate them with every fiber of my being. God knows why we have to write them and not only records but we have this observation notebook which we had to maintain. No one reads them no one cares about them but you have to write them. And then the shitty assignments which they give us before every mid exam. Just some basic questions and us writing like some factory robots with basically everyone copying the same thing. Hell more than half of my time was wasted for all this copy pasting shit. 

And then the exams ohh boy the system is so shitty that they give us important questions. Without them you can still easily predict the question paper by analyzing the past questions because the same set of questions are recycled every time. no points for conceptual learning. It's a race to see who memorizes the best. There are soo many people with pretty good CGPA's in my college but if you ask them anything logical or conceptual BAM!! they can't even answer the basic questions. There are people who can't even tell the difference between AC and DC current after 3 years of engineering. 

Coming to projects I would say this is probably the biggest scam in my college. Almost 90 percent of students just go and buy their projects. Hell even our faculty suggested us to just buy projects and to not waste our time on them. If we do want to do something meaningful, we don't get the monetary support nor the technical assistance required. I wanted to do some interesting projects but eventually had to give up because we don't have the proper equipment or funding for hardware domain.

Research is non-existent. Faculty are good just for gossiping and showcasing their giant ego's and torturing students for petty things like not writing assignments on A4 sheets. There are some good faculty but they won't be able to make an impact or actually help us because of all the departmental politics

I don't know if this is true for all tier-3 colleges in general but most of them only focus on CSE. We are treated as second grade citizens in our own college. Always seen as inferior to the CSE lot. They look at us as if we don't know anything. 

Coming to placements and god are they a game of chance. No matter which branch you take up, you are going to end up with a software/consulting/marketing job. Nothing related to what you've studied. There are absolutely zero opportunities for core companies in my college. Like a herd everyone has to do coding get into some software job and that's it. With most of the exams being online ppl who can't even write simple Fibonacci series code clear the exams and if their time is good, the mass recruiting companies just ask them some basic HR questions and boom they get the job!! I kid you not one of my classmates' interview questions were the full form of ECE and HTTP. Because of all this copying, people who actually know stuff are missing out on opportunities. 

Engineering is coming to an end and if I look back did I actually learn something? Did I actually do something meaningful? A BIG FAT NO! Instead of improving the quality of education and updating the curriculum my college just keeps on adding seats every year with all sorts of fancy names for CSE.

P.s : You can do self learning and improve yourself irrespective of all these factors. I do know some people in my college who worked their ass off and got placed in FAANG companies. But they are an exception not the norm. I am talking about the experience of an average engineering student in a tier-3 college and the reasons why so many tend to be unemployed.