1. Relief Sought

 This petition has been filed under Section 482 of BNSS,

2023, for grant of Anticipatory Bail to the petitioner in FIR No.183

dated 12.09.2024 under sections 420 , 467 / 468 , 471 & 120-B , of IPC,

(Annexure P-1) registered at Police Station City Rajpura, District

Patiala. 2. Prosecution story, set up in the present case as per the

version in the FIR read as under :- 3. Contentions

 On behalf of the petitioner

 Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that the

petitioner has been falsely implicated in this case and no specific role

whatsoever has been attributed to him in the instant FIR. He submits

that the petitioner has been nominated as an accused merely being

father of co-accused-Hardeep Singh who has allegedly ACTED as an

agent. He would further submits that neither the petitioner is

beneficiary of any transaction took place between the complainant and

the co-accused nor any incriminating material is shown by the

prosecution against him. Notice of motion. On the asking of Court, learned State Counsel appearing

on advance notice, accepts notice on behalf of respondent-State.

On behalf of the State

 Learned State Counsel appearing on advance notice on

instructions from Investigating Officer vehemently opposes the prayer

 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-10-2024 19:56:40 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:134438 CRM-M-50922-2024 5 for grant of concession of anticipatory bail on the ground that the

petitioner is involved along with his son-Hardeep Singh and other co-

accused in the offences whereby lakhs of rupees were misappropriated,

therefore, prays for dismissal of the present petition. 4. Analysis

 Be that as it may, after given a thoughtful consideration to

the submissions as made, by the counsel for both the parties and

keeping in view the facts that learned State Counsel failed to produce any

direct or indirect incriminating material against the petitioner and neither

a single penny has been transferred in the account of the petitioner nor he

has received any amount in cash, this Court finds no reason to deny the

petitioner the concession of anticipatory bail, wherein the petitioner has

bona fide intentions and is willing to join the investigation and cooperate

for furtherance of the same so that the final report can be submitted by

the Investigating Agency within the stipulated time period. 5. Decision

 Hence, in view of the admitted set of circumstances before

this Court, the petitioner is hereby directed to be released on

anticipatory bail subject to him joining investigation and reporting to

the Investigating Officer concerned within a period of one week from

today, on furnishing of personal/surety bonds to the satisfaction of

Arresting/Investigating Officer. The petitioner shall also abide by the

terms and conditions as envisaged under Section 482(2) of BNSS of

which are reproduced below :- The petition in the aforesaid terms stand allowed.