Called the Open App Markets Act, the bill proposes a slew of measures that benefits third-party app stores but might compromise users’ safety; it is the latest in America’s crackdown on big tech.

“For years, Apple and Google have squashed competitors and kept consumers in the dark—pocketing hefty windfalls while acting as supposedly benevolent gatekeepers of this multi-billion dollar market,” US Senator Richard Blumenthal said while introducing a new bill targetted at Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store. The bill titled Open App Markets Act is co-sponsored by US Senators Marsha Blackburn and Amy Klobuchar, and it aims to address issues that third-party app developers have long complained about.

“This bipartisan bill will help break these tech giants’ ironclad grip, open the app economy to new competitors, and give mobile users more control over their own devices,” Blumenthal said.

Why it matters? The introduction of this bill comes at a time when Apple and Google are facing multiple legal battles across the world with respect to their app store practices and big tech, in general, is facing increased scrutiny. The main allegations against these platforms are that they charge high commissions and impose unreasonable restrictions on third-party developers. Both of these, along with many other concerns, are addressed by this new bill, which if passed, will upend the world of apps and cause a huge dent in the revenues of Apple and Google. The proposed measures also carry many safety and privacy concerns that have been inadequately addressed by the bill.

App stores catering to 50 million or more users: The bill defines a “covered company” as “any person that owns or controls an App Store for which users in the United States exceed 50,000,000.” This would include Apple and Google whose respective app stores cater to more than the prescribed number of users and it will exclude companies running smaller app stores. It also covers some large online game stores like Valve. The following provisions apply to all covered companies, but I’ve used Apple and Google as examples for the sake of convenience.

Apple’s main argument for not allowing third-party app stores has been that the security and privacy of its users will be adversely affected. Apple has contended that it has been able to safeguard its users by maintaining a comprehensive app review process and third-party app stores, if allowed, will not operate with the same priorities and values.

The new bill keeps this argument in mind and stipulates that Apple and Google are not in violation of the above requirements for an action that is

However, the bill also states that if Apple and Google use the above reasons to justify their actions, they must establish by clear and convincing evidence that their action is

But these measures do not go far enough in addressing safety and privacy. For example, how exactly should Apple and Google prove that what they’re doing is for safety and privacy and not to deter competition?

Five bipartisan bills aimed at breaking up big tech: On June 11, US lawmakers debuted five bipartisan draft bills that are aimed at curbing the power of tech giants like Apple, Google, Facebook, and Amazon. “The legislation represents the most comprehensive effort to reform century-old antitrust laws,” CNBC reported. The bills are aimed at preventing dominant companies from unfairly disadvantaging rivals, preventing companies from owning a platform and offering services on it that pose a conflict of interest, preventing dominant online platforms from buying companies they perceive as competitive threats, and making it easier for consumers to port data between platforms.

Appointment of Lina Khan as FTC Chair: The US government on June 15 appointed Lina Khan as the Chair of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) who has been hailed as a big tech critic. Khan was an associate professor of law at Columbia Law School where she taught and wrote about antitrust law and the antimonopoly tradition. Her scholarship on antitrust policy has influenced important public debates on the topic.

Biden’s executive order: In July, US president Joe Biden signed an executive order (EO) that sought to promote competition by directly putting big tech in the US administration’s crosshairs. The order called on several US agencies like the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to implement 72 specific provisions on topics such as restoring net neutrality provisions that were repealed during the Trump administration; codifying “right to repair” rules, data collection/surveillance by big companies and increasing big tech scrutiny.

The Competition Commission of India (CCI) is currently investigating Google over its Play Store practices, with regards to Play Store’s exclusivity and Google Pay (GPay) services. CCI is also investigating the dominance of Amazon and Flipkart in the e-commerce space, the dominance of Google in the smart TV space, and the new privacy policy of WhatsApp . In a recent event, the CCI Chairman Ashok Gupta spoke at length about the characteristics of market power in the digital space and what CCI is doing to address competition harm in digital markets. “CCI has prioritized and stepped up its scrutiny against online platforms across particulars,” Gupta said.

Updated (13 Aug, 8:50 am): Added clarification that the bill applies to app stores other than Google and Apple as well

Updated (25 Aug, 1:106 pm): Corrected error that CCI is not investigating any of the app stores. It is in fact currently investigating Google Play.

Also Read

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama and post your comment

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event