?If There’s One Story To Read Today

A week ago, the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare said it has released funds worth ₹129.19 crores towards promoting ‘Kisan Drones.’ An RTI response received by MediaNama also gave some additional information about the project’s funding. So, that’s on the funding part but what about other questions like who’s using the drones? How are the drones being used? What data has been collected by the drones so far?

The bulk of our MediaNama’s RTI questions about the usage of the drones remain unanswered, including information on crop assessments, digitization of land records, state-wise usage of drones, and the number of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe farmers owning drones. Why does this bother us? Because it raises questions about the effectiveness of the initiative and the benefits for farmers. And more importantly, if the Union Ministry does not have the answer to these questions then who does? Read this 3-minute story here .

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

To what extent did a user need to be identified? Could user verification processes prevent scams? How could we protect our sensitive data while undergoing government verification? These and other such questions were raised and discussed at our hybrid round table on ‘Exploring User Verification’ held at The Claridges in New Delhi on March 23, 2023. Watch the full video here .

Fewer complaints to start of 2023 : After reporting an increased number of user complaints in December 2022, social media platforms are now reporting a decline in the number of complaints in January 2023. Particularly, Twitter, WhatsApp, and Google should be pretty happy with the lower numbers although Twitter for some reason is focusing more on defamation complaints? Well, either way Instagram is going to feel the pressure the most as its grievance complaints just keep on increasing. Check out our summary to know exactly what is happening on each platform. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Critical matters : The Additional Secretary handling Cyber Laws at the IT Ministry has been given approval powers to issue gazette notifications for “protected systems”. These are systems that indirectly or directly affect a “computer resource, the incapacitation or destruction of which, shall have debilitating impact on national security, economy, public health or safety”. What we found interesting: last year, the Indian government identified ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, and the National Payments Corporation of India as critical systems. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Live commerce may be losing its sheen : There was a lot of fanfare around live commerce as major e-commerce platforms rolled out their own features in 2021 but the train seems to be coming to a halt. Youtube shut down its live commerce platform, Simsim, as it intends to focus on adding shopping features. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

The app storm : Chinese apps have become increasingly popular due to their competitive nature. Their algorithm, cited as their ‘secret sauce’ gives them an edge over rival apps. Check out the article to know how the popularity of these apps has led to concerns around national-security. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Branson Swaps Risk for Reserve in Virgin Orbit’s Costly Flameout [ Read ] (Loren Grush and Siddharth Vikram Philp/Bloomberg)

Elon Musk: Twitter says parts of source code leaked online [ Read ] (Peter Hoskins/BBC News)

Starlink Rival OneWeb Completes Fleet to Offer Global Internet [ Read ] (Thomas Seal/Bloomberg)

The Strongest Protection for Your Online Accounts? This Little Key [ Read ] (Nicole Nguyen/Wall Street Journal)

Telehealth Apps Sharing Consumer Data Draw FTC Crackdown [ Read ] (Patience Haggin/Wall Street Journal)

This Week in Apps: TikTok goes to Congress, apps connect to ChatGPT, Microsoft’s mobile games store plan [ Read ] (Sarah Perez/Tech Crunch)

South Korea to Surpass China in Chip Machine Spending Next Year [ Read ] (Sam Kim/Bloomberg)

Avalanche wants to digitize all of the world’s assets on the blockchain [ Read ] (Jacquelyn Melinek/Tech Crunch)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event