J U D G M E N T

WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 265 OF 2006
(With WP (C) Nos. 269/2006, 598/2006, 29/2007, 35/2007, 
53/2007 Contempt Petition (C)No.112/2007 in WP ) 
No.265/2006, 336/2007, 313/2007, 335/2007, 231/2007, 
425/2007 and 428/2007)

Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT, J 1.	The issues involved in the present writ petitions have far 
reaching consequences and in essence pose several questions 
of seminal importance. In essence, they raise questions which 
have no easy answers. The complexity can be gauged from the 
fact that on one hand the petitioners have questioned the logic 
of providing reservations/quotas for a class of people whom 
they described as "unidentifiable" or "undetermined" while the 
respondents justify their action by labelling them as measures 
taken for upliftment of vast majority of people who have 
suffered social humiliation and sneer for the social 
backwardness. Complex questions like whether the 
expressions 'class' and 'castes' are synonyms, whether 
reservations provide the only solution for social empowerment 
measures, alleged lack of concern for the economically weaker 
group of citizens are some of the basic issues which need to be 
addressed. It has been emphatically highlighted by the 
petitioners that when the ultimate objective is classless and 
casteless in Indian democracy, there is no question of 
unendingly providing the reservation and that too without any 
definite data regarding backwardness. In essence, they 
contend that these measures perpetuate backwardness and do 
not remove them. On the epicenter of challenge is the Central 
Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act 2006 
(in short the 'Act') and the 93rd Amendment to the Constitution 
of India, 1950 (in short the 'Constitution'). Interestingly, both 
the petitioners and the respondents rely strongly on certain 
observations made by this Court in Indra Sawhney v. Union of 
India 1992 (Suppl. 3) SCC 217 (commonly known as 'Indra 
Sawhney No.1') 2.	When the writ petitions were placed before a Bench of 
two Judges, considering the importance of the matter they 
were referred to be heard by a larger bench and certain 
questions which arise for consideration were formulated. That 
is how these cases are before this Bench. 3.	Arguments have been advanced by both the sides as to 
whether Constitution contemplates casteless society. While the 
respondents submit that the Constitution really does not think 
of a casteless society, it prohibits untouchability in the 
background of Article 17. It has to be noted that both in Articles 15 and 16 the stress is on non-discrimination on the 
ground of castes. The Preamble of the Constitution also throws 
light on this aspect. Ultimately if the social status of a man 
goes in the higher direction because of his education, the 
difference in status gets obliterated. Education is a great 
levellor. In that sense, the ultimate object is that every Indian 
citizen should have the social status which is not inferior to 
another and that would be obliteration of the difference in 
status. The ultimate objective is to see that no person gets 
discriminated because of his caste. If that be so, it would not 
be right to say that the ultimate objective is not the casteless 
society. 4.	Various Articles of the Constitution of India and the 
Preamble provide an insight to the monumental document i.e. 
the Constitution of India. Article 14 guarantees equality before 
the law in addition to equal protection of law. Article 15(1) mandates that there shall not be any discrimination against 
any citizen on the grounds of religion, caste, sex, race, or place 
of birth. Article 16(1) makes the fundamental right of equality 
specific relating to job opportunities. Article 16(2) significantly 
speaks of government employment by providing that no citizen 
shall be ineligible only on the grounds of religion, race, caste, 
sex, descent, place of birth or any of them or discriminated 
against in respect of any employment or office under the State. Article 16(4) is an important provision which empowers the 
State permitting the provision for the reservation of 
appointments and posts in favour of any backward class of 
citizens which in the opinion of the State is not adequately 
represented in the services of the State. The stress is on 
backwardness of the citizens and inadequate representation in 
the services under the State. 5.	If one takes a walk on the pathway relating to the views 
expressed by this Court in the matter of reservation or quotas 
for the other backward classes one comes across many 
milestones. Some of them were noted extensively in Indra 
Sawhney No.1. They are: The State of Madras v. Sm. 
Champakam Dorairajan & Anr. (AIR 1951 SC 226), Minor A 
Peeriakaruppan v. Sobha Joseph ( 1971 (1) SCC 38), The State 
of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. v. U.S.V. Balram , etc. (1972 (1) 
SCC 660), Shri Janki Prasad Parimoo and Ors. v. State of 
Jammu and Kashmir and Ors. (1973(1) SCC 420), State of 
Uttar Pradesh and Ors. v. Pradip Tandon and Ors. (1975 (1) 
SCC 267), State of Kerala and Anr. v. N.M. Thomas and Ors. 
(1976(2) SCC 310), Kumari K.S. Jayashree and Anr. v. The 
State of Kerala and Anr. (1976 (3) SCC 730), K.C. Vasanth 
Kumar and Anr. v. State of Karnataka (1985 (Supp) SCC 714) 
and Indra Sawhney v. Union of India and Ors. (2000 (1) SCC 168) (known as Indra Sawhney No.2). 6.	Two recent decisions have also been highlighted by the 
parties. They are M. Nagaraj and Ors. v. Union of India and 
Ors. ( 2006 (8) SCC 212) and Nair Service Society v. State of 
Kerala (2007 (4) SCC 1). It is to be noted that some of the 
arguments which have been raised relate to broad principles of 
law and the jurisprudential approach. They are the 
applicability of the foreign decisions, more particularly, the 
decisions of the American Courts. They relate to the principles 
of strict scrutiny and narrow tailoring. 7.	Learned counsel for the petitioners have stressed on 
these decisions to show as to what should be the approach in 
matters relating to social empowerment. Learned counsel for 
the respondents have however submitted that the approach is 
to be different because the problems before the American 
Courts essentially related to individual rights while the Indian 
Courts are more concerned with group rights i.e. rights of 
class of citizens. We shall deal with this in some length later. 8.	The other issue which was hotly contested related to the 
exclusion of the creamy layer. 9.	One of the major challenges raised by the petitioners is 
based on the allegation that there is no acceptable data for 
fixing the percentage of other backward classes. This has been 
highlighted to show that there is no rational basis for fixing 
the percentage of reservation at 27% for the other backward 
classes. It is pointed out that the figures appear to have been 
culled out from some survey done more than seven decades 
back i.e. 1931 to be precise. Thereafter, there seems to be no 
definite data to know the actual percentage. It is pointed out 
that in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) this Court had laid 
considerable stress on having a Commission to identify and 
determine the criteria for determining the socially and 
educationally backward classes. Very little appears to have 
been done. It is surprising, it was contended, that there has 
been not even a single case of exclusion but on the other hand 
more than 250 new castes/sub-castes have been added. This 
shows that there is really no serious attempt to identify the 
other backward classes. On the other hand, there has been 
over-jealous anxiety to include more number of people so that 
they can get the benefits of reservations/quotas and this has 
been termed as "vote bank politics". It is highlighted that even 
when a serious matter relating to adoption of the Act was 
under consideration there was hardly any discussion and 
every political party was exhibiting its anxiety to get the 
Statute passed. Crocodile tears were shed to show lip 
sympathy for the backwardness of the people. In reality, the 
object was to give a wrong impression to the people that they 
were concerned about the backwardness of the people and 
they were the 'Messiahs' of the poor and the down trodden. In 
reality, in their hearts the ultimate object was to grab more 
votes. The lack of seriousness of the debate exhibits that the 
debate was nothing but a red-herring to divert attention from 
the sinister, politically motivated design masked by the 
"tearful" faces of the people masquerading as champions of 
the poor and down trodden. It is pointed out that contrary to 
what was being projected by the parties when the discussions 
were going on, in an impassioned speech by late Rajeev 
Gandhi who was the leader of opposition at an earlier point of 
time, the fallacies in adopting the Mandal Report were 
highlighted. It is surprising, it is submitted, that those very 
people who were the champions of anti-reservation and anti- 
quota as members of opposition, have done summersault and 
were saying just the opposite. It is pointed out that when one 
member Shri P.C. Alexandar exhibited real courage and 
highlighted the fallacies in the stand taken, his view appears 
to have been lightly brushed aside and the Statute hustled 
through. It is also submitted that the objectivity and sanctity 
of the report submitted in the Parliament commonly known as 
"Oversight Committee Report" has been lightly brushed aside. 
This only indicates that there was no serious debate about the 
consequences. The foresight of late Rajiv Gandhi in saying that 
the country will be divided on caste basis and that would lead 
to disaster has been prophetically proved to be correct and it 
is a reality. It is submitted that the enactment has created a 
sharp divide amongst the citizens of the country and it has not 
even an iota of good results flowing from it. On the contrary, 
the country will be divided sharply leading to social unrest and 
caste-wars. It is pointed out that in the recent past such caste 
wars have resulted in large scale loss of life and destruction of 
public properties. 10.	The relevance of the parliamentary debate or the speech 
of the Minister has been highlighted by this Court in many 
cases. It is a settled position in law that there can be only 
limited use of the parliamentary debate. The Courts should 
not normally critically analyse the proceedings of Parliament. 
This flows from a very fundamental aspect i.e. mutual respect 
of the Parliament and the Judiciary for each other. Each of 
these great institutions in a democracy operates in different 
fields. It is not expected that one wing of democracy would 
criticize the manner of functioning of another wing. That 
would be against the basic desirability of mutual respect. Any 
opinion or comment or criticism about the manner of 
functioning of one by the other would be not only undesirable 
but imperatively avoidable. The citizens of this country expect 
a great deal from the Parliament and the Judiciary. It is but 
natural that the people of this country would be disappointed 
and dis-heartened and their hopes will be shattered if instead 
of showing respect for each other, there is mudslinging, 
unwanted criticism or impermissible criticism about the 
manner of functioning or the rationale of a decision or a view 
taken. In this context, it would be relevant to take note of what 
this Court said in Builders Association of India v. Union of 
India and Ors. (1995 Supp (1) SCC 41), and K. Nagaraj and 
Ors. v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Anr. (1985 (1) SCC 523). In State of Mysore v. R.V. Bidap (1974 (3) SCC 337), it was 
observed as follows: The rule of grammatical construction has been 
accepted in India before and after 
Independence. In the State of Travancore-
Cochin and Ors. v. Bombay Company Ltd., 
Alleppey , (AIR 1952 S.C. 366), Chief Justice 
Patanjali Sastri delivering the judgment of the 
Court, said :- Or, as it is more tersely put in an American case- 11.	In the American jurisdiction, a more natural note has 
sometimes been struck. Mr. Justice Frankfurter was of the 
view that- 12.	Crawford on Statutory Construction at page 388 notes 
that- The Rule of Exclusion has been criticised by 
jurists as artificial. The trend of academic 
opinion and the practice in the European 
system suggest that interpretation of a statute 
being an exercise in the ascertainment of 
meaning, everything which is logically relevant 
should be admissible. Recently, an eminent 
Indian jurist has reviewed the legal position 
and expressed his agreement with Julius 
Stone and Justice Frankfurter. Of course, 
nobody suggests that such extrinsic materials 
should be decisive but they must be 
admissible. Authorship and interpretation 
must mutually illumine and interact. There is 
authority for the proposition that resort may 
be had to these sources with great caution and 
only when incongruities and ambiguities are to 
be resolved. A.K. Gopalan v. State of Madras (1950 SCR 88). There is a strong case for 
whittling down the Rule of Exclusion followed 
in the British courts and for less apologetic 
reference to legislative proceedings and like 
materials to read the meaning of the words of a 
statute. Where it is plain, the language 
prevails, but where there is obscurity or lack of 
harmony with other provisions and in other 
special circumstances, it may be legitimate to 
take external assistance such as the object of 
the provisions, the mischief sought to be 
remedied, the social context, the words of the 
authors and other allied matters. The law of 
statutory construction is a strategic branch of 
jurisprudence which must, it may be felt, 
respond to the great social changes but a 
conclusive pronouncement on the particular 
point arising here need not detain us because 
nothing decisive as between the alternative 
interpretations flows from a reliance on the 
Constituent Assembly proceedings or the 
broad purposes of the statutory scheme. 13.	One thing however needs to be noted here that mere 
short length of debate cannot and does not become a ground 
for invalidity of the decision and the reverse is also not true. 14.	Elaborate arguments have been advanced about the 
applicability of the foreign decisions, more particularly, the 
American Courts. It is to be noted that the American cases 
which have been highlighted by the petitioners relate 
essentially to strict classification, strict scrutiny and narrow 
tailoring. This issue is of considerable importance when so 
much debate is taking place about respect being shown by 
courts of a country to a decision of another country. The 
factual scenario and the basic issues involved in the cases 
sometimes throw light on the controversy. It has been rightly 
contended by Mr. Vahanvati and Mr. Gopal Subramanium 
that there is a conceptual difference between the cases decided 
by the American Supreme Court and the cases at hand. In Saurabh Chaudri and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. (2003 
(11) SCC 146) it was held that the logic of strict classification 
and strict scrutiny does not have much relevance in the cases 
of the nature at hand. If one looks at the different Statutes in 
India, Article 14 of the Constitution is conceptually different 
from 14th Amendment to the American Constitution as was 
noted in State of West Bengal vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1952 SCR 284) and State of Bombay and Anr. v. F.N. Balsara (1952 SCR 682). In Anwar Ali's case (supra) at pages 363 and 364 it was 
noted as follows: 15.	It needs no emphasis that the formal equality concept 
came to be recognized in U.S.A. after about 10 years of its 
inception. In the first phase of the U.S.A. Constitutional Law 
there was only affirmative action but in the Indian 
Constitution right from the beginning affirmative action has 
been provided, for example, provisions made for Scheduled 
Castes and Schedules Tribes. A distinction has been noted in 
para 640 of Indra Sawhney No.1. Articles 38(1) and 38(2) read with Article 46 of the Constitution make the position 
clear that the State is charged with the duty to secure 
interests of the weaker sections of the people and minimize the 
inequalities in income. The Constitution from its inception 
contained Article 17 which abolishes untouchability. 16.	In this context the following paras need to be noted. 17. In Minerva Mills Ltd. and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. (1980) 3 SCC 625) in para 63 it was held as follows: 18. In His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. 
State of Kerala and Anr. (1973 (4) SCC 225) it was held as 
under: 19.	In Sajan Singh v. Maharashtra Sugar Mills Ltd. (AIR 
1965 SC 845) it was held as follows: 20. In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors. (1992 Supp. (2) 
SCC 651) it was observed as follows: 62. In	 the present cases, though the 
amendment does not bring in any change 
directly in the language of Article 136 , 226 and 227 of the Constitution,	however, in 
effect paragraph 7 curtails	the operation 
of those Articles respecting matters falling 
under the Tenth Schedule. There is a change 
in the effect in Article 136 , 226 and 227 within 
the meaning of clause (b) of the proviso to Article 368(2). Paragraph 7, therefore, 
attracts	 the proviso	 and ratification was 
necessary. Accordingly, on Point B, we hold: 21. In Shri Sarwan Singh and Anr. v. Shri Kasturi Lal (1977 
(1) SCC 750) it was observed as follows: 22. In J.K. Cotton Spinning and weaving co. Ltd. v. State of 
U.P. and Anr. (1961 (3) SCR 185) it was observed as under: 23. In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. UOI (1957 SCR 930) it 
was held as under: The test to be applied is whether the 
legislature would have enacted the valid 
part if it had known that the rest of the 
statute was invalid. Vide Corpus Juris 
Secundum, Vol. 82, p. 156; Sutherland on 
Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 176-177. 2. If the valid and invalid provisions are so 
inextricably mixed up that they cannot be 
separated from one another, then the 
invalidity of a portion must result in the 
invalidity of the Act in its entirety. On the 
other hand, if they are so distinct and 
separate that after striking out what is 
invalid, what remains is in itself a complete 
code independent of the rest, then it will be 
upheld notwithstanding that the rest has 
become unenforceable. Vide Cooley's 
Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1 at pp. 
360-361; Crawford on Statutory 
Construction, pp. 217-218. 3. Even when the provisions which are valid 
are distinct and separate from those which 
are invalid, if they all form part of a single 
scheme which is intended to be operative as 
a whole, then also the invalidity of a part 
will result in the failure of the whole. Vide 
Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 
218-219. 4. Likewise, when the valid and invalid parts 
of a statute are independent and do not 
form part of a scheme but what is left after 
omitting the invalid portion is so thin and 
truncated as to be in substance different 
from what it was when it emerged out of the 
legislature, then also it will be rejected in its 
entirety. 5. The separability of the valid and invalid 
provisions of a statute does not depend on 
whether the law is enacted in the same 
section or different sections; (Vide Cooley's 
Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, pp. 361- 362); it is not the form, but the substance of 
the matter that is material, and that has to 
be ascertained on an examination of the Act 
as a whole and of the setting of the relevant 
provisions therein. 6. If after the invalid portion is expunged 
from the statute what remains cannot be 
enforced without making alterations and 
modifications therein, then the whole of it 
must be struck down as void, as otherwise 
it will amount to judicial legislation. Vide 
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 
2, p. 194. 7. In determining the legislative intent on 
the question of separability, it will be 
legitimate to take into account the history of 
the legislation, its object, the title and the 
preamble to it. Vide Sutherland on 
Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 177- 178." 24.	In AIIMS Students Union v. AIIMS (2002 (1) SCC 428) in 
para 35 it was observed as follows: It was again highlighted in para 44 as follows: 25.	A bare reading of the provision goes to show that the 
burden is on the person who justifies deviation from equality. 26.	Even then, this doctrine was upheld by the Supreme 
Court of U.S.A. in Plessy v. Ferguson (163 U.S. 537(1896). 
This case involved a challenge to a Louisiana statute that 
provided for equal but separate accommodations for black and 
white passengers in trains. The Court rejected the challenge. 
Justice Brown famously observed: 27.	He held that racial segregation was a reasonable exercise 
of State police power for the promotion of the public good and 
upheld the law. 28.	Thus, even in this second phase, affirmative action was 
never truly initiated  the country was still struggling to 
establish even a formally equal society. 29.	At the same time, another very important development in 
its constitutional law was taking place, which would later have 
a serious impact on affirmative action programmes. This was 
the birth of the doctrine of strict scrutiny. 30.	'Strict scrutiny' is one of the three standards for judicial 
review of legislative and administrative action developed in the 
United States, the other being "rational basis" and 
"intermediate scrutiny". 31.	The origin of this standard can be traced to the decision 
in United States v Carolene Products (304 U.S. 144 (1938). 
The question before the Court was whether the Filled Milk Act, 
1923 which prohibited the shipment in interstate commerce of 
skimmed milk compounded with any fat or oil other than milk 
fat, so as to resemble milk or cream, transcended the power of 
Congress to regulate inter state commerce or infringed the 
Fifth Amendment. Justice Harlan Stone, writing the opinion 
for the Court, upheld the law, holding that the existence of 
facts supporting the legislative judgment was to be presumed, 
for regulatory legislation affecting ordinary commercial 
transactions was not to be pronounced unconstitutional 
unless in the light of the facts made known or generally 
assumed it was of such a character as to preclude the 
assumption that it rested upon some rational basis within the 
knowledge and experience of the legislators. However, he 
added what has been described as "the most celebrated 
footnote in constitutional law". 32.	What the Court was saying was that economic legislation 
would be judged by a standard of "rational basis"  so long as 
the law was a rational way of furthering a legitimate 
governmental purpose, it was valid. However, where the 
legislation "on its face" appeared to be violating any of the 
fundamental rights, a more exacting standard would be 
applied. 33.	The precise term "strict scrutiny" was used by the Court 
for the first time in Skinner v. Oklahoma (316 U.S. 535 (1942). 
The Oklahoma Habitual Criminal Sterilisation Act provided for 
vasectomy to be performed on any person convicted two or 
more times for crimes amounting to "felonies involving moral 
turpitude". Justice Douglas, giving the opinion of the Court, 
described the statute as violating the right to have offspring  
"a right which is basic to the perpetuation of a race". The 
question before the Court was whether this statute violated 
the 14th Amendment. Holding that it did, Justice Douglas 
observed: 34.	In India there has to be collective commitment for 
upliftment of those who needed it. In that sense, the question 
again comes back to the basic issue as to whether the action 
taken by the Government can be upheld after making judicial 
scrutiny. Much assistance is not available to the petitioners 
from the American decisions. 35.	It is to be noted that the doctrine of separation as is 
prevalent in the American Society is not of much consequence 
in the Indian scenario. It needs to be clarified that the 
expression 'strict scrutiny' has also been used by the Indian 
Courts in Narendra Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. (1960 (2) SCR 375) but it appears to have been used in 
different context. What really appears to be the intention for 
the use of the expression is "careful and deeper scrutiny" and 
not in the sense of strict scrutiny of the provisions as is 
prevalent in the American jurisprudence. It is used in 
different sense. The application appears to be in technical 
sense in the American Courts, for example, Regents of 
University of California v. Allan Bakke (438 U.S. 265). 36.	Some of the judgments of American Courts throwing light 
on the controversy need to be noted: 37.	In Allan Bakke's case (supra) it was held as follows: 38.	In Grutter v. Bollinger (539 U.S. 306) it was held as 
follows: [22b, 23] We are satisfied that the Law 
School's admissions program does not. 
Because the Law School considers "all 
pertinent elements of diversity," it can (and 
does) select non-minority applicants who have 
greater potential to enhance student body 
diversity over underrepresented minority 
applicants. See Bakke, supra, at 317, 57 L Ed 
2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733 (opinion of Powell, J). As 
Justice Powell recognized in Bakke, so long as 
a race-conscious admissions program uses 
race as a "plus" factor in the context of 
individualized consideration, a rejected 
applicant 	"will not have been foreclosed from 
all consideration for that seat simply because 
he was not the right color or had the wrong 
surname  His qualifications would have 
been weighed fairly and competitively, and he 
would have no basis to complain of unequal 
treatment under the Fourteenth Amendment." 
438 US, at 318, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733.
[13f, 22C] We agree that, in the context of its 
individualized inquiry into the possible 
diversity contributions of all applicants, the 
Law School's race-conscious admissions 
program does not unduly harm nonminority 
applicants. [24, 25a, 26] We are mindful, however, that 
"[a] core purpose of the Fourteenth 
Amendment was to do away with all 
governmentally imposed discrimination based 
on race" Palmore v Sidoti, [539 US 342] 466 
US 429, 432, 80 L Ed 2d, 421, 104 s Ct 1879 
(1984). Accordingly, race-conscious 
admissions policies must be limited in time. 
This requirement reflects that racial 
classifications, however, compelling their goals 
are potentially so dangerous that they may be 
employed no more broadly than the interest 
demands. Enshrining a permanent 
justification for racial preferences would offend 
this fundamental equal protection principle. 
We see no reason to exempt race-conscious 
admissions programs from the requirement 
that all governmental use of race must have a 
logical end point. The Law School, too, 
concedes that all "race-conscious programs 
must have reasonable durational limits." Brief 
for Respondent Bollinger et al. 32. [25b] In the 
context of higher education, the durational 
requirement can be met by sunset provisions 
in race-conscious admissions policies and 
periodic reviews to determine whether racial 
preferences are still necessary to achieve 
student body diversity. Universities in 
California, Florida, and Washington State, 
where racial preferences in admissions are 
prohibited by state law, are currently engaged 
in experimenting with a wide variety of 
alternative approaches. Universities in other 
States can and should draw on the most 
promising aspects of these race-neutral 
alternatives as they develop. Cf. United States 
v. Lopez, 514 US 549, 581, 131 L Ed 2d 626, 
115 S Ct 1624 (1995) (Kennedy, J., 
concurring) ("[T] he States may perform their 
role as laboratories for experimentation to 
devise various solutions where the best 
solution is far from clear"). The requirement 
that all race-conscious admissions programs 
have a termination point "assure[s] all citizens 
that the deviation from the norm of equal 
treatment of all racial and ethnic groups is a 
temporary matter, a measure taken in the 
service of the goal of equality itself." Richmond 
v. J.A. Croson Co., 488 US, at 510, 102 L Ed 
2d 854, 109 S Ct 706 (plurality opinion); see 
also Nathanson & Bartnik. The 
Constitutionality of Preferential Treatment for 
Minority Applicants to Professional Schools, 
[539 US 343] 58 Chicago Bar Rec. 282, 293 
(May-June 1977) ("It would be a sad day 
indeed, were America to become a quota-
ridden society, with each identifiable minority 
assigned proportional representation in every 
desirable walk of life. But that is not the 
rationale for programs of preferential 
treatment; the acid test of their justification 
will be their efficacy in eliminating the need for 
any racial or ethnic preferences at all." 39.	The provisions of the American Constitution in United 
States relating to formal equality concept do not appear to 
have operated from the beginning of the American 
Constitution. 40.	Although even under the 1919 and 1935 Government of 
India Acts the rights of certain class of people like Scheduled 
Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the deprived classes have been 
recognized, in America, the rights have been conferred on 
individuals and so much on the groups. The freedoms 
contemplated by the Indian Constitution originally related to 
seven categories which presently stand at six after the 
property rights were deleted. The stand of Mr. Vahanvati and 
Mr. Gopal Subramanium is that the logic of strict scrutiny, 
compelling the Government and narrow tailoring do not have 
relevance so far as the present case is concerned. 41.	In Thomas's case (supra) it was clearly noticed by this 
Court that American conditions do not apply adequately for 
the Indian scenario. Unlike U.S.A., the targeted beneficiaries 
are alien to our Constitution. In India cognizance has been 
taken constitutionally. The victims of untouchability, 
identifying social and economic backwardness have been 
accepted as permissible measures. However, the question how 
long they can be continued is another aspect which shall be 
dealt with separately. Rationality in that sense is a measure 
for the special provisions. But the question that still needs to 
be addressed is whether these groups are really identifiable. 
While formulating the policy all factors need not be specifically 
expressed but there must be some criteria to identify social 
and educational backwardness. 42. In A.K. Roy v. Union of India (1982 (1) SCC 271) it was 
noted as follows: 43.	One of the grey areas focused by learned counsel for the 
petitioners and the respondents is the ever perplexing 
question "how long". The respondents say that so long as the 
problems of backwardness exist they can be continued. The 
petitioners have highlighted that notwithstanding the concerns 
shown in Indra Sawhney No.1 and in a large number of cases 
that the reservations are not meant to be a permanent 
feature there is a case for concern. Admittedly, there is no 
deletion from the list of other backward classes. It goes on 
increasing. Learned counsel for the respondents have stated 
that in large number of cases where applications were made 
for inclusion they have been turned down. But that is no 
answer to the question as to why and how there has been no 
exclusion. Is it that backwardness has increased instead of 
decreasing. If the answer is 'yes', as contended by the 
respondents, then one is bound to raise eyebrows as to the 
effectiveness of providing reservations or quotas. 44. The ultimate object is to bring those who are 
disadvantaged to a level where they no longer continue to be 
dis-advantaged. It needs no emphasis that individual rights 
are superior to the social rights. All fundamental rights are to 
be read together. The inequalities are to be removed. Yet the 
fact that there has been no exclusion raises a doubt about the 
real concern to remove inequality. 45.	 The ultimate objective is to bring people to a particular 
level so that there can be equality of opportunity. In that 
context, one has to keep in view the justice and redress 
principles. There should not be mere equality in law but 
equality in fact. 46.	The necessary ingredients of equality essentially involve 
equalization of unequals. Linked with this question the 
problem posed by the petitioners is whether reservation is the 
only way to equalize unequals? There are several methods and 
modes. If reservation really does not work as contended by the 
petitioners, then the alternative methods can be adopted. It is 
the stand of the respondents that not only reservations but 
other incentives like free lodging and boarding facilities have 
been provided in some States. 47.	 Learned counsel for the respondents have stated that 
the measures under challenge are nothing but a much needed 
leap towards attainment of the objectives. If it is true, the leap 
has to end somewhere. It cannot hang in the air as there is 
nothing immortal in this world; much less, a progressive 
measure purportedly intended to benefit the other backward 
classes. If after nearly six decades the objectives have not been 
achieved, necessarily the need for its continuance warrants 
deliberations. It is to be noted that some of the provisions were 
intended to be replaced after a decade but have continued. It 
indirectly shows that backwardness appears to have 
purportedly increased and not diminished. It would therefore 
be rational and logical to restrict operation of the impugned 
Statute for a period of 10 years from its inception. 48.	At this juncture, report of the Oversight Committee 
throws considerable light on the controversy. Some parts of 
the Report need to be noted. This report seeks to expand the provision of 
Higher Education while at the same time ensuring 
social inclusion and academic excellence. A society 
which excludes a significant section of its 
population from access to higher education cannot 
be said to be providing equality of opportunity. 
Equally, if academic excellence gets compromised in 
the process of expansion, it would lose its 
competitive edge in the emerging knowledge society 
 an edge which can propel India into a position of 
global leadership. Page X and XI of the report
	A simpler way of implementing reservations 
was to steamroll our way through, in the name of 
social equity, regardless of its impact on quality and 
excellence. We have deliberately chosen the more 
difficult way which delivers equity in a manner that 
enhances excellence i.e. by making concomitant 
investments in faculty & infrastructure and by 
bringing much needed governance related reforms 
involving institutional, financial and administrative 
autonomy and process re-engineering in our Higher 
Educational Governance system. It is easy to 
equalize by "mindlessly leveling everyone down to 
lowest common-denominator". Our effort has been 
to create an upward moving equalization process- 
where the disabilities are overcome by the erstwhile 
excluded sections and the system brings out the 
best in them. Besides the many out of the box innovative 
ideas concerning faculty and infrastructure related 
issues, I believe three of our recommendations, 
which cut horizontally across the five groups, are 
critical to the establishment of the goal of an 
"inclusive society, in pursuit of excellence". These 
four programmes are considered by the Oversight 
Committee to be integral to the above vision and 
should be considered to be inseverable part of our 
core recommendations. (page-x)

	We have to acknowledge that the challenges 
facing us in the entire education sector are 
enormous and in the Tertiary Education Sector 
these can be met, only if both public and private 
funding to educational institutions increased 
several fold. The need for private participation in 
this mammoth task cannot be over-emphasized but 
market forces themselves cannot deliver justice. 
The relative importance of public vs. private funding 
is brought out very strongly by Joseph Stiglitz 
when he opined "I had studied the failures of both 
markets and governments, and was not so naove to 
think that the government could remedy every 
failure. Neither was I so foolish as to believe that 
markets by themselves solved every societal 
problem. Inequality, unemployment, pollution: In 5 
Yrs. Agricu
lture 5 825 454 187 102.75
92.71
195.46

Central 
Univers
ities 17 92011
49689 6609 2702.11
2455. 5158. Manag
ement 7 1791 966 139 511.32 177. 48 688. 80 Medic
al 11 993 565 N.A.
1783.98
1027. 2811. Engin
eering 38 29671
16440 4919 5503.83
3840. 9343. Grand
Total

125291
68114
11854
10603.99
7593. 18197. Chapter VII- The Way Forward

7.1	As indicated earlier in this report, this 
opportunity for expansion, inclusion and excellence 
should only be the beginning of a larger process, 
which is to build a knowledge society in India and 
allow the country to take its rightful place in the 
comity of nations. Our recent economic growth and 
the values of knowledge and education carried 
forward by a billion diverse people, point to India's 
potential future as a knowledge society. Other 
countries that visualize a similar future have 
planned massive investments in order to enhance 
both the quality and quantity of higher education 
and research. China, for example, has made 
substantial increase in its allocation of resources of 
higher education. In the first phase, China has 
provided a grant of US $ 125 million to each of the 
10 leading universities and US $ 225 million to 
Beijing and Tsinghua Universities. In the second 
phase, China proposes to provide additional grants 
to 30 universities, with the objective of having 100 
high quality universities in China in the 21st 
century and with 15% of the citizens in the age 
group 18-22 receiving tertiary education. 7.2	India has suffered in the past because of 
severe under investment in higher education. This 
has been caused partly by the thinking that looks at 
primary and higher education in an either or 
manner. It is very clear however that large public 
investment is needed in both sectors. As Prime 
Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh said, while launching 
the Knowledge Commission, "At the bottom of the 
knowledge pyramid, the challenge is one of 
improving access to primary education. At the top of 
the pyramid there is need to make our institutions 
of higher education and research world class. The 
time has come for India to embark on a second 
wave of nation building. Denied this investment, the 
youth will become a social and economic liability. 49.	It was emphasized by learned counsel for the petitioners 
that the massive financial burden question finds no place in 
the parliamentary debate. In response, Mr. Vahanvati has 
submitted that before the Parliamentary Standing Committee, 
the report of the Oversight Committee was available. When the 
Oversight Committee's report was discussed in detail, needless 
to say the financial aspect was also considered. 50.	It has been highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao that unmindful of 
the duty to focus on primary and elementary education, large 
sums of money are intended to be used for implementation of 
Statute. Various figures and datas have been highlighted to 
show that there is really no concern for the primary and 
elementary education. Repelling these contentions Mr. 
Vahanvati has highlighted that there is no laxity so far as 
primary and elementary education is concerned. He has 
referred to voluminous details relating to Sarva Shiksha 
Abhiyan. It is contended that uniform policy of elementary 
education and the progress made upto 31.3.2007 shows the 
concern of the Government to translate into reality the 
constitutional objective of providing adequate education to all 
citizens. It is true that there has been considerable effort in 
this regard. But one question still remains to be answered. 
There has to be balancing of priorities. Mr. Vahanvati has said 
that this balancing is prerogative of the Government. It is true 
that Government has a large area of discretion in choosing its 
priorities. But one factor cannot be lost sight of. The 
fundamental stress has to be on elementary education. If that 
is done, as a consequence there would be reduction in the 
need for spending more money on higher education. Stress on 
primary and elementary education would be a leap forward 
towards higher education. There has been considerable 
number of drop outs in the higher classes. This is a reality in 
spite of all steps which the Government claims to have 
adopted to ensure that every child of a particular age group 
has education as warranted by the Constitution as a 
fundamental right. 51. Unni Krishnan, J.P. and Ors. v. State of A.P. and Ors. (1993 (1) SCC 645) emphasized on the importance of 
education in the following words: 52.	Observations of this Court in AIIMS Students' Union case 
(supra) highlight the importance of higher education and the 
modalities to be adopted for ensuring excellence are in the 
following words: and "tireless striving stretches its arms 
towards perfection". Almost a quarter century 
after the people of India have given the 
Constitution unto themselves, a chapter on 
fundamental duties came to be incorporated in 
the Constitution. Fundamental duties, as 
defined in Article 51A , are not made 
enforceable by a writ of court just as the 
fundamental rights are, but it cannot be lost 
sight of that 'duties' in Part IVA - Article 51A are prefixed by the same word 'fundamental' 
which was prefixed by the founding fathers of 
the Constitution to 'rights' in Part III. Every 
citizen of India is fundamentally obliged to 
develop the scientific temper and humanism. 
He is fundamentally duty bound to strive 
towards excellence in all spheres of individual 
and collective activity so that the nation 
constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour 
and achievements. State is, all the citizens 
placed together and hence though Article 51A does not expressly cast any fundamental duty 
on the State, the fact remains that the duty of 
every citizen of India is the collective duty of 
the Sate. Any reservation, apart from being 
sustainable on the constitutional anvil, must 
also be reasonable to be permissible. In 
assessing the reasonability one of the factors 
to be taken into consideration would be -- 
whether the character and quantum of 
reservation would stall or accelerate achieving 
the ultimate goal of excellence enabling the 
nation constantly rising to higher levels. In the 
era of globalisation, where the nation as a 
whole has to compete with other nations of the 
world so as to survive, excellence cannot be 
given an unreasonable go by and certainly not 
compromised in its entirety. Fundamental 
duties, though not enforceable by a writ of the 
court, yet provide a valuable guide and aid to 
interpretation of constitutional and legal 
issues. In case of doubt or choice, people's 
wish as manifested through Article 51A , can 
serve as a guide not only for resolving the 
issue but also for constructing or moulding the 
relief to be given by the courts. Constitutional 
enactment of fundamental duties, if it has to 
have any meaning, must be used by courts as 
a tool to tab, even a taboo, on State action 
drifting away from constitutional values". 53.	Respondents have vehemently contended that the 
concept of creamy layer may have relevance for the purpose of Article 16(4) , but is really inconsequential so far as Articles 
15(4) and 15(5) are concerned. It is submitted that Article 
16(4) is relatable to inadequate representation in Government 
services and in that context the well to do in the socially and 
educationally backward classes have to be excluded in view of 
the decisions of this Court. But that logic cannot apply to the 
present dispute which relates to admissions to educational 
institutions. Before considering the question as to the 
desirability of excluding 'creamy layer' the concept of creamy 
layer needs to be focused upon. Observations of this Court in 
various cases on this concept need to be noted. 54. In N.M. Thomas 's case (supra) at page 363, it was inter 
alia observed as follows : groups with a vested interest in the plums of 
backwardism. But social science research, not 
judicial impressionism, will alone tell the 
whole truth and a constant process of objective 
re-evaluation of progress registered by the 
"underdog" categories is essential lest a once 
deserving "reservation" should be degraded 
into "reverse discrimination". Innovations in 
administrative strategy to help the really 
untouched, most backward classes also 
emerge from such socio-legal studies and audit 
exercises, if dispassionately made. In fact, 
research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute 
of Social Studies, Patna, has revealed a dual 
society among harijans, a tiny elite gobbling up 
the benefits and the darker layers sleeping 
distances away from the special concessions. 
For them, Articles 46 and 335 remain a "noble 
romance", the bonanza going to the "higher" 
harijans. I mention this in the present case 
because lower division clerks are likely to be 
drawn from the lowest levels of harijan 
humanity and promotion prospects being 
accelerated by withdrawing, for a time, "test" 
qualifications for this category may perhaps 
delve deeper. An equalitarian breakthrough in 
a hierarchical structure has to use many 
weapons and Rule 13/AA perhaps is one. 
Xx			xx			xx 139. It is platitudinous constitutional law 
that Articles 14 to 16 are a common code of 
guaranteed equality, the first laying down the 
broad doctrine, the other two applying it to 
sensitive areas historically important and 
politically polemical in a climate of 
communalism and jobbery. 55. In Vasant Kumar 's case (supra) at page 732 the view 
was re-iterated in the following words : 25. A few other aspects for rejecting 
caste as the basis for identifying social 
and educational backwardness may be 
briefly noted. If State patronage for 
preferred treatment accepts caste as the 
only insignia for determining social and 
educational backwardness, the danger 
looms large that this approach alone 
would legitimise and perpetuate caste 
system. It does not go well with our 
proclaimed secular character as 
enshrined in the Preamble to the 
Constitution. The assumption that all 
members of same caste a re equally 
socially and educationally backward is 
not well-founded. Such an approach 
provides an over-simplification of a 
complex problem of identifying the social 
and educational backwardness. The 
Chairman of the Backward Classes 
Commission, set up in 1953, after having 
finalised the report, concluded that "it 
would have been better if we could 
determine the criteria of backwardness 
on principles other than caste". Lastly it 
is recognised without dissent that the 
caste based reservation has been 
usurped by the economically well-placed 
section in the same caste. To illustrate, it 
may be pointed that some years ago, I 
came across a petition for special leave 
against the decision of the Punjab and 
Haryana High Court in which the 
reservation of 2= per cent for admission 
to medical and engineering colleges in 
favour of Majhabi Sikhs was challenged 
by none other than the upper crust of the 
members of the Scheduled castes 
amongst Sikhs in Punjab, proving that 
the labeled weak exploits the really 
weaker. Add to this, the findings of the 
Research Planning Scheme of sociologists 
assisting the Mandal Commission when it 
observed: "while determining the criteria 
of socially and educationally backward 
classes, social backwardness should be 
considered to be the critical element and 
educational backwardness to be the 
linked element though not necessarily 
derived from the former". The team 
ultimately concluded that "social 
backwardness refers to ascribed status, 
and it considered social backwardness as 
the critical element and educational 
backwardness to be the linked though 
not derived element". The attempt is to 
identify socially and educationally 
backward classes of citizens. The caste, 
as is understood in Hindu Society, is 
unknown to Muslims, Christians, Parsis, 
Jews etc. Caste criterion would not 
furnish a reliable yardstick to identify 
socially and educationally backward 
group in the aforementioned communities 
though economic backwardness would. 28. Reservation in one or other form has 
been there for decades. If a survey is 
made with reference to families in various 
castes considered to be socially and 
educationally backward, about the 
benefits of preferred treatment, it would 
unmistakably show that the benefits of 
reservations are snatched away by the 
top creamy layer of the backward castes. 
This has to be avoided at any cost. 56.	Significantly in Indra Sawhney No.1 it was emphatically 
noted as follows: Xx			xx			xx 790. 'Means-test' in this discussion signifies 
imposition of an income limit, for the purpose 
of excluding persons (from the backward class) 
whose income is above the said limit. This 
submission is very often referred to as the 
"creamy layer" argument. Petitioners submit 
that some members of the designated 
backward classes are highly advanced socially 
as well as economically and educationally. It is 
submitted that they constitute the forward 
section of that particular backward class  as 
forward as any other forward class member  
and that they are lapping up all the benefits of 
reservations meant for that class, without 
allowing the benefits to reach the truly 
backward members of that class. These 
persons are by no means backward and with 
them a class cannot be treated as backward. It 
is pointed out that since Jayasree almost every 
decision has accepted the validity of this 
submission. 791. On the other hand, the learned counsel 
for the States of Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and 
other counsel for respondents strongly oppose 
any such distinction. It is submitted that once 
a class is identified as a backward class after 
applying the relevant criteria including the 
economic one, it is not permissible to apply the 
economic criteria once again and sub-divide a 
backward class into two sub-categories. 
Counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu submitted 
further that at one stage (in July 1979) the 
State o f Tamil Nadu did indeed prescribe such 
an income limit but had to delete it in view of 
the practical difficulties encountered and also 
in view of the representations received. In this 
behalf, the learned counsel invited our 
attention to Chapter 7-H (pages 60 to 62) of 
the Ambashankar Commission (Tamil Nadu 
Second Backward Classes Commission) 
Report. According to the respondents the 
argument of 'creamy layer' is but a mere ruse, 
a trick, to deprive the backward classes of the 
benefit of reservations. It is submitted that no 
member of backward class has come forward 
with this plea and that it ill becomes the 
members of forward classes to raise this point. 
Strong reliance is placed upon the 
observations of Chinnappa Reddy, J in 
Vasanth kumar to the following effect (SCC 
p.763, para 72) 

" .. .. One must, however, enter a caveat to the 
criticism that the benefits of reservation are 
often snatched away by the top creamy layer of 
backward class or caste. That a few of the 
seats and posts reserved for backward classes 
are snatched away by the more fortunate 
among them is not to say that reservation is 
not necessary. This is bound to happen in a 
competitive society such as ours. Are not the 
unreserved seats and posts snatched away, in 
the same way, by the top creamy layer of 
society itself? Seats reserved for the backward 
classes are taken away by the top layers 
amongst them on the same principle of merit 
on which the unreserved seats are taken away 
by the top layers of society. How can it be bad 
if reserved seats and posts are snatched away 
by the creamy layer of backward classes, if 
such snatching away of unreserved posts by 
the top creamy layer of society itself is not 
bad?" 792. In our opinion, it is not a question of 
permissibility or desirability of such test but 
one of proper and more appropriate 
identification of a class  a backward class. 
The very concept of a class denotes a number 
of persons having certain common traits which 
distinguish them from the others. In a 
backward class under clause (4) of Article 16 , 
if the connecting link is the social 
backwardness, it should broadly be the same 
in a given class. If some of the members are far 
too advanced socially (which in the context, 
necessarily means economically and, may also 
mean educationally) the connecting thread 
between them and the remaining class snaps. 
They would be misfits in the class. After 
excluding them alone, would the class be a 
compact class. In fact, such exclusion benefits 
the truly backward. Difficulty, however, really 
lies in drawing the line  how and where to 
draw the line? For, while drawing the line, it 
should be ensured that it does not result in 
taking away with one hand what is given by 
the other. The basis of exclusion should not 
merely be economic, unless, of course, the 
economic advancement is so high that it 
necessarily means social advancement. Let us 
illustrate the point. A member of backward 
class, say a member of carpenter caste, goes to 
Middle East and works there as a carpenter. If 
you take his annual income in rupees, it would 
be fairly high from the Indian standard. Is he 
to be excluded from the Backward Class? Are 
his children in India to be deprived of the 
benefit of Article 16(4)? Situation may, 
however, be different, if he rises so high 
economically as to become  say a factory 
owner himself. In such a situation, his social 
status also rises. He himself would be in a 
position to provide employment to others. In 
such a case, his income is merely a measure of 
his social status. Even otherwise there are 
several practical difficulties too in imposing an 
income ceiling. For example, annual income of 
Rs.36,000 may not count for much in a city 
like Bombay, Delhi or Calcutta whereas it may 
be a handsome income in rural India 
anywhere. The line to be drawn must be a 
realistic one. Another question would be, 
should such a line be uniform for the entire 
country or a given State or should it differ from 
rural to urban areas and so on. Further, 
income from agriculture may be difficult to 
assess and, therefore, in the case of 
agriculturists, the line may have to be drawn 
with reference to the extent of holding. While 
the income of a person can be taken as a 
measure of his social advancement, the limit to 
be prescribed should not be such as to result 
in taking away with one hand what is given 
with the other. The income limit must be such 
as to mean and signify social advancement. At 
the same time, it must be recognised that 
there are certain positions, the occupants of 
which can be treated as socially advanced 
without any further enquiry. For example, if a 
member of a designated backward class 
becomes a member of IAS or IPS or any other 
All India Service, his status is society (social 
status) rises; he is no longer socially 
disadvantaged. His children get full 
opportunity to realize their potential. They are 
in no way handicapped in the race of life. 793. Keeping in mind all these considerations, 
we direct the Government of India to specify 
the basis of exclusion  whether on the basis 
of income, extent of holding or otherwise  of 
'creamy layer'. This shall be done as early as 
possible, but not exceeding four months. On 
such specification persons falling within the 
net of exclusionary rule shall cease to be the 
members of the Other Backward Classes 
(covered by the expression 'backward class of 
citizens') for the purpose of Article 16(4). The 
impugned Office Memorandums dated August 
13, 1990 and September 25, 1991 shall be 
implemented subject only to such specification 
and exclusion of socially advanced persons 
from the backward classes contemplated by 
the said O.M. In other words, after the expiry 
of four months from today, the implementation 
of the said O.M. shall be subject to the 
exclusion of the 'creamy layer' in accordance 
with the criteria to be specified by the 
Government of India and not otherwise". 57. In Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1996) 6 SCC 506) 
at page 508) it was noted as follows : 58.	In Indra Sawhney No. 2 it was observed as follows: to be identified and excluded. xx		xx		xx 22. As appears from the judgments of six out 
of the eight Judges, viz. Jeevan Reddy (for 
himself and three others), Sawant and Sahai, 
JJ.  (i.e. six learned Judges out of nine),  
they specifically refer to those in higher 
services like IAS, IPS and All India Services or 
near about as persons who have reached a 
higher level of social advancement and 
economic status and therefore as a matter of 
law, such persons are declared not entitled to 
be treated as backward. They are to be treated 
as creamy layer "without further inquiry". 
Likewise, persons living in sufficient affluence 
who are able to provide employment to others 
are to be treated as having reached a higher 
social status on account of their affluence, and 
therefore outside the backward class. Those 
holding higher levels of agricultural 
landholdings or getting income from property, 
beyond a limit, have to be excluded from the 
backward classes. This, in our opinion, is a 
judicial " declaration " made by this Court. 
	Xx		xx		xx 27. As the "creamy layer" in the backward 
class is to be treated "on a par" with the 
forward classes and is not entitled to benefits 
of reservation, it is obvious that if the "creamy 
layer" is not excluded, there will be 
discrimination and violation of Articles 14 and 16(1) inasmuch as equals (forwards and 
creamy layer of backward classes) cannot be 
treated unequally . Again, non-exclusion of 
creamy layer will also be violative of Articles 
14 , 16(1) and 16(4) of the Constitution of India 
since unequals (the creamy layer) cannot be 
treated as equals , that is to say, equal to the 
rest of the backward class. These twin aspects 
of discrimination are specifically elucidated in 
the judgment of Sawant, J. where the learned 
Judge stated as follows: (SCC p. 553, para 520) 
"To continue to confer upon 
such advanced sections special 
benefits, would amount to 
treating equals unequally. Secondly, to rank them with 
the rest of the backward 
classes would amount to 
treating the unequals equally." Thus, any executive or legislative action 
refusing to exclude the creamy layer from the 
benefits of reservation will be violative of Articles 14 and 16(1) and also of Article 16(4). We shall examine the validity of Sections 3 , 4 and 6 in the light of the above principle. 
Xx			xx		xx 64. The Preamble to the Constitution of India 
emphasises the principle of equality as basic to 
our Constitution. In Kesavananda Bharati v. 
State of Kerala it was ruled that even 
constitutional amendments which offended the 
basic structure of the Constitution would be 
ultra vires the basic structure. Sikri, C.J. laid 
stress on the basic features enumerated in the 
Preamble to the Constitution and said that 
there were other basic features too which 
could be gathered from the constitutional 
scheme (para 506-A of SCC). Equality was one 
of the basic features referred to in the 
Preamble to our Constitution. Shelat and 
Grover, JJ. also referred to the basic rights 
referred to in the Preamble. They specifically 
referred to equality (paras 520 and 535-A of 
SCC). Hegde and Shelat, JJ. also referred to 
the Preamble (paras 648, 652). Ray, J. (as he 
then was) also did so (para 886). Jaganmohan 
Reddy, J. too referred to the Preamble and the 
equality doctrine (para 1159). Khanna, J. 
accepted this position (para 1471). Mathew, J. 
referred to equality as a basic feature (para 
1621). Dwivedi, J. (paras 1882, 1883) and 
Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) (see para 
2086) accepted this position. 65. What we mean to say is that Parliament 
and the legislature in this country cannot 
transgress the basic feature of the 
Constitution, namely, the principle of equality 
enshrined in Article 14 of which Article 16(1) is 
a facet. Whether the creamy layer is not 
excluded or whether forward castes get 
included in the list of backward classes , the 
position will be the same, namely, that there 
will be a breach not only of Article 14 but of 
the basic structure of the Constitution. The 
non-exclusion of the creamy layer or the 
inclusion of forward castes in the list of 
backward classes will, therefore, be totally 
illegal. Such an illegality offending the root of 
the Constitution of India cannot be allowed to 
be perpetuated even by constitutional 
amendment. The Kerala Legislature is, 
therefore, least competent to perpetuate such 
an illegal discrimination. What even 
Parliament cannot do, the Kerala Legislature 
cannot achieve." 59.	Though in M. Nagaraj 's case (supra) some observations of 
general nature have been made so far as the applicability of 
the principles to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are 
concerned, really that case did not concern with Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Similar is the position here. The 
focus on the identity test in M. Nagaraj 's case (supra) is 
unexceptionable. At paras 80 and 110, it was noted as follows: 60.	There is an interesting article by an author dealing with 
Affirmative Action which reads as follows: 61.	It has been rightly observed in Indra Sawhney No. 2 
(supra) whether creamy layer is not excluded or whether 
forward classes can be excluded in the list of backward 
classes, the position would be the same and there will be 
breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the 
Constitution. As was rightly observed in the said case, non 
exclusion of the creamy layer or inclusion of forward castes in 
the lists of backward classes will be totally illegal. The illegality 
offends the roots and foundation of the Constitution and 
cannot be allowed to be perpetuated. 62. In Nair Service Society 's case (supra) this Court observed 
as follows: 63.	In our view, even non exclusion of the creamy layer for 
the purpose of admission to the educational institutions 
cannot be countenanced. It is inconceivable that a person who 
belongs to the creamy layer is socially and educationally 
backward. The backward status vanishes when somebody 
becomes part of the creamy layer. 64. In Vasant Kumar 's case (supra) it was aptly described 
that the benefits of reservation are snatched away by the top 
creamy layer of the backward classes and this has to be 
avoided at any cost. By inclusion of the creamy layer or in 
other words non inclusion thereof a fresh lease of life to those 
who should have been left out is given. Their continuance 
would mean keeping weakest amongst the weak always weak 
and leaving the fortunate ones to enjoy the benefits. If the 
ultimate aim is a casteless and classless society in line with 
the dream of the Constitution framers that has to be chewed 
out. As Father of the Nation had once said if the caste system 
as we know is an anchronism, then it must go. There is a 
feeling and it cannot be said without reason that reservation 
hits at the root of this belief and instead of its obliteration 
there is perceivable perpetuation. It is true that obliteration 
cannot be done immediately or within a short span of time but 
that is no answer to the lack of seriousness in seeking 
obliteration. 65. In Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) the following observations 
on the question of giving priority over reservation are of 
significance. It was held: Reservation which excludes from consideration 
all those persons falling outside the specially 
favoured groups, irrespective of merits and 
qualifications, is much more positive and 
drastic a discrimination - albeit to achieve the 
same end of qualitative equality - but unless 
strictly and narrowly tailored to a compelling 
constitutional mandate, it is unlikely to qualify 
as a benign discrimination. Unlike in the case 
of other affirmative action programmes, 
backwardness by itself is not sufficient to 
warrant reservation. What qualifies for 
reservation is backwardness which is the 
result of identified past discrimination and 
which is comparable to that of the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Reservation 
is a remedial action specially addressed to the 
ill effects stemming from historical 
discrimination. To ignore this vital distinction 
between affirmative action short of reservation 
and reservation by a predetermined quota as a 
remedy for past inequities is to ignore the 
special characteristic of the constitutional 
grant of power specially addressed to the 
constitutionally recognised backwardness.
	xx			xx		xx 319. Reservation should be avoided except in 
extreme cases of acute backwardness resulting 
from prior discrimination as in the case of the 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes 
and other classes of persons in comparable 
positions. In all other cases, preferential 
treatment short of reservation can be adopted. 
Any such action, though in some respects 
discriminatory, is permissible on the basis of a 
legitimate classification rationally related to 
the attainment of equality in all its aspects. Xx			xx			xx

323 (16). 	In the final analysis, poverty which 
is the ultimate result of inequities and which is 
the immediate cause and effect of 
backwardness has to be eradicated not merely 
by reservation as aforesaid, but by free medical 
aid, free elementary education, scholarships 
for higher education and other financial 
support, free housing, self- employment and 
settlement schemes, effective implementation 
of land reforms, strict and impartial operation 
of the law-enforcing machinery, 
industrialization, construction of roads, 
bridges, culverts, canals, markets, 
introduction of transport, free supply of water, 
electricity and other ameliorative measures 
particularly in areas densely populated by 
backward classes of citizens. (underlined for emphasis) 66.	Following observations in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore (AIR 1963 SC 649) are also relevant: (p. 32). Therefore, in considering the question 
about the propriety of the reservation made by 
the impugned order, we cannot lose sight of 
the fact that the reservation is made in respect 
of higher university education. The demand for 
technicians, scientists, doctors, economists, 
engineers and experts for the further economic 
advancement of the country is so great that it 
would cause grave prejudice to national 
interests if considerations of merit are 
completely excluded by whole-sale reservation 
of seats in all Technical, Medical or 
Engineering colleges or institutions of that 
kind. Therefore, considerations of national 
interest and the interests of the community or 
society as a whole cannot be ignored in 
determining the question as to whether the 
special provision contemplated by Art. 15(4) can be special provision which excludes the 
rest of the society altogether. In this 
connection, it would be relevant to mention 
that the University Education Commission 
which considered the problem of the 
assistance to backward communities, had 
observed that the percentage of reservation 
shall not exceed a third of the total number of 
seats, and it has added that the principle of 
reservation may be adopted for a period of ten 
years. (p. 53). We have already noticed that the Central 
Government in its communication to the State 
has suggested that reservation for backward 
classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes may be up to 25% with marginal 
adjustments not exceeding 10% in exceptional 
cases. The learned Advocate-General has suggested 
that reservation of a large number of seats for 
the weaker sections of the society would not 
affect either the depth or efficiency of 
scholarship at all, and in support of this 
argument, he has relied on the observations 
made by the Backward Classes Commission 
that it found no complaint in the States of 
Madras, Andhra, Travancore-Cochin and 
Mysore where the system of recruiting 
candidates from other Backward Classes to the 
reserve quota has been in vogue for several 
decades. The Committee further observed that 
the representatives of the upper classes did 
not complain about any lack of efficiency in 
the offices recruited by reservation (p. 135). 
This opinion, however, is plainly inconsistent 
with what is bound to be the inevitable 
consequence of reservation in higher university 
education. If admission to professional and 
technical colleges is unduly liberalised it would 
be idle to contend that the quality of our 
graduates will not suffer. That is not to say 
that reservation should not be adopted; 
reservation should and must be adopted to 
advance the prospects of the weaker sections 
of society, but in providing for special 
measures in that behalf care should be taken 
not to exclude admission to higher educational 
centres to deserving and qualified candidates 
of other communities. A special provision 
contemplated by Art. 15(4) like reservation of 
posts and appointments contemplated by Art. 
16(4) must be within reasonable limits. The 
interests of weaker sections of society which 
are a first charge on the states and the Centres 
have to be adjusted with the interests of the 
community as a whole. The adjustment of 
these competing claims is undoubtedly a 
difficult matter, but if under the guise of 
making a special provision, a State reserves 
practically all the seats available in all the 
colleges, that clearly would be subverting the 
object of Art. 15(4). In this matter again, we 
are reluctant to say definitely what would be a 
proper provision to make. Speaking generally 
and in a broad way, a special provision should 
be less than 50%; how much less than 50% 
would depend upon the relevant prevailing 
circumstances in each case. In this particular 
case it is remarkable that when the State 
issued its order on July 10, 1961, it 
emphatically expressed its opinion that the 
reservation of 68% recommended by the Nagan 
Gowda Committee would not be in the larger 
interests of the State. What happened between 
July 10, 1961, and July 31, 1962, does not 
appear on the record. But the State changed 
its mind and adopted the recommendation of 
the Committee ignoring its earlier decision that 
the said recommendation was contrary to the 
larger interests of the State. In our opinion, 
when the State makes a special provision for 
the advancement of the weaker sections of 
society specified in Art. 15(4) it has to 
approach its task objectively and in a rational 
manner. Undoubtedly, it has to take 
reasonable and even generous steps to help 
the advancement of weaker elements; the 
extent of the problem must be weighted, the 
requirements of the community at large must 
be borne in mind and a formula must be 
evolved which would strike a reasonable 
balance between the several relevant 
considerations. Therefore, we are satisfied that 
the reservation of 68% directed by the 
impugned order is plainly inconsistent with Art. 15(4). The petitioners contend that having 
regard to the infirmities in the impugned 
order, action of the State in issuing the said 
order amounts to a fraud on the Constitutional 
power conferred on the State by Art. 15(4). This argument is well-founded, and must be 
upheld. When it is said about an executive 
action that it is a fraud on the Constitution, it 
does not necessarily mean that the action is 
actuated by mala fides. An executive action 
which is patently and plainly outside the limits 
of the constitutional authority conferred on the 
State in that behalf is struck down as being 
ultra vires the State's authority. If, on the 
other hand, the executive action does not 
patently or overtly transgress the authority 
conferred on it by the Constitution, but the 
transgression is covert or latent, the said 
action is struck down as being a fraud on the 
relevant constitutional power. It is in this 
connection that courts often consider the 
substance of the matter and not its form and 
in ascertaining the substance of the matter, 
the appearance or the cloak, or the veil of the 
executive action is carefully scrutinized and if 
it appears that notwithstanding the 
appearance, the cloak or the veil of the 
executive action, in substance and in truth the 
constitutional power has been transgressed, 
the impugned action is struck down as a fraud 
on the Constitution. We have already noticed 
that the impugned order in the present case 
has categorised the Backward Classes on the 
sole basis of caste which, in our opinion, is not 
permitted by Art. 15(4); and we have also held 
that the reservation of 68% made by the 
impugned order is plainly inconsistent with 
the concept of the special provision authorised 
by Art. 15(4). Therefore, it follows that the 
impugned order is a fraud on the 
Constitutional power conferred on the State by Art. 15(4). The learned Advocate-General has 
made an earnest and strong plea before us 
that we should not strike down the order, but 
should strike down only such portions of the 
order which appear to us to be 
unconstitutional on the doctrine of 
severability. He has urged that since 1958, the 
State has had to make five orders to deal with 
the problem of advancing the lot of the 
Backward Classes and the State is anxious 
that the implementation of the impugned order 
should not be completely prohibited or 
stopped. We do not see how it would be 
possible to sever the invalid provisions of the 
impugned order. If the categorisation of the 
Backward Classes is invalid, this Court cannot 
and would not attempt the task of 
enumerating the said categories; and if the 
percentage of reservation is improper and 
outside Art. 15(4) , this Court would not 
attempt to lay down definitely and in an 
inflexible manner as to what would be the 
proper percentage to reserve. In this 
connection, it may be relevant to refer to one 
fact on which the petitioners have strongly 
relied. It is urged for them that the method 
adopted by the Government of Maharashtra in 
exercising its power under Art. 15(4) is a 
proper method to adopt. It appears that the 
Maharashtra Government has decided to 
afford financial assistance, and make 
monetary grants to students seeking higher 
education where it is shown that the annual 
income of their families is below a prescribed 
minimum. The said scheme is not before us 
and we are not called upon to express any 
opinion on it. However, we may observe that if 
any State adopts such a measure, it may 
afford relief to and assist the advancement of 
the Backward Classes in the State, because 
backwardness, social and educational, is 
ultimately and primarily due to poverty. An 
attempt can also be made to start newer and 
more educational institutions, polytechnics, 
vocational institutions and even rural 
Universities and thereby create more 
opportunities for higher education. This dual 
attack on the problem posed by the weakness 
of backward communities can claim to proceed 
on a rational, broad and scientific approach 
which is consistent with, and true to, the noble 
ideal of a secular welfare democratic State set 
up by the Constitution of this country. Such 
an approach can be supplemented, if 
necessary by providing special provision by 
way of reservation to aid the Backward classes 
and Scheduled castes and Tribes. It may well 
be that there may be other ways and means of 
achieving the same result. In our country 
where social and economic conditions differ 
from State to State, it would be idle to expect 
absolute uniformity of approach; but in taking 
executive action to implement the policy of Art. 
15(4) , it is necessary for the States to 
remember that the policy which is intended to 
be implemented is the policy which has been 
declared by Art. 46 and the preamble of the 
Constitution. It is for the attainment of social 
and economic justice Art. 15(4) authorises the 
making of special provisions for the 
advancement of the communities there 
contemplated even if such provisions may be 
inconsistent with the fundamental rights 
guaranteed under Art. 15 or 29(2). The 
context, therefore, requires that the executive 
action taken by the State must be based on an 
objective approach, free from all extraneous 
pressures. The said action is intended to do 
social and economic justice and must be taken 
in a manner that justice is and should be 
done. Whilst we are dealing with this question, 
it would be relevant to add to that the 
provisions of Art. 15(4) are similar to those of Art. 16(4) which fell to be considered in the 
case of The General Manager, Southern 
Railway v. Rangachari (1962 (2) SCR 586). In 
that case, the majority decision of this Court 
held that the power of reservation which is 
conferred on the State under Art. 16(4) can be 
exercised by the State in a proper case not 
only by providing for reservation of 
appointments, but also by providing for 
reservation of selection posts. This conclusion 
was reached on the basis that it served to give 
effect to the intention of the Constitution 
makers to make adequate safeguards for the 
advancement of Backward Classes and to 
secure their adequate representation in the 
Services. The judgment shows that the only 
point which was raised for the decision of this 
Court in that case was whether the reservation 
made was outside Art. 16(4) and that posed 
the bare question about the construction of Art. 16(4). The propriety, the reasonableness or 
the wisdom of the impugned order was not 
questioned because it was not the 
respondent's case that if the order was 
justified under Art. 16(4) , it was a fraud on the 
Constitution. Even so, it was pointed out in 
the judgment that the efficiency of 
administration is of such a paramount 
importance that it would be unwise and 
impermissible to make any reservation at the 
cost of efficiency of administration; that, it was 
stated, was undoubtedly the effect of Art. 335. Therefore, what is true in regard to Art. 15(4) is equally true in regard to Art. 16(4). There 
can be no doubt that the Constitution-makers 
assumed, as they were entitled to, that while 
making adequate reservation under Art. 16(4) , 
care would be taken not to provide for 
unreasonable, excessive or extravagant 
reservation, for that would, by eliminating 
general competition in a large field and by 
creating wide-spread dissatisfaction amongst 
the employees, materially affect efficiency. 
Therefore, like the special provision improperly 
made under Art. 15(4) , reservation made under Art. 16(4) beyond the permissible and 
legitimate limits would be liable to be 
challenged as a fraud on the Constitution. In 
this connection it is necessary to emphasize 
that Art. 15(4) is an enabling provision; it 
does not impose an obligation, but merely 
leaves it to the discretion of the appropriate 
government to take suitable action, if 
necessary." 67.	To similar effect is the view expressed in K.C. Vasanth 
Kumar's case (supra) at para 150: It has also been noted as follows: (underlined for emphasis) 68.	Lengthy arguments have been advanced as to the 
seriousness in identifying the backward classes. On the basis 
of Indra Sawhney No.1's judgment, the Government of India 
issued orders in respect of reservations of appointments or on 
posts under the Government of India in favour of backward 
classes of citizens. It was the subject matter of challenge in 
Indra Sawhney No.1. In its judgment dated 16.11.1992 this 
Court directed the Government to constitute a permanent 
body by 15.3.1993 for entertaining and examining and 
recommending upon requests made for inclusion or 
complaints of over inclusion and under inclusion in the lists of 
backward classes of citizens. 69.	Constituent Assembly Debates 1951 have also relevance 
for adjudicating the controversy. The following portion needs 
to be extracted: 70.	Parliamentary Standing Committee Report at paras 36, 
37 and 46 read as follows: 71.	One of the petitioners "Youth for Equality" had filed a 
representation before the Parliamentary Committee giving 
certain important data. Relevant portions read as follows: Apart from the above, according to the NCERT 
(In 1998), Only 34.6% of Govt. Schools had 
safe Drinking water, 13.2% had urinal and 
4.9% had urinals for girls and only 6.0% had 
a lavatory. While the government promises a 
spending of about 6% of GDP for the 
development of education, the reality has been 
to the contrary. The Government spending in 
the years was as under: 74.	Important provisions are Sections 9 and 10 which read 
as follows: and (f)	any other matter which may be 
prescribed." 75.	A periodic revision of the lists by the Central Government 
is a statutory mandate. Petitioners have highlighted that there 
is no exclusion and on the other hand there has been 
inclusion. On the question of castes enumeration it is 
emphasized that 1931 Census was not the basis for 
identification of other backward classes. In fact the central 
OBC List is not drawn up on the basis of 1931 Census. Each 
State has different modalities for identification. Only for the 
purpose of quantum the population provides a foundation. 76.	It needs no emphasis that if ultimately and indisputably 
the constitutional goal is the casteless and classless society, 
there has to be more effective implementation of the Backward 
Classes Act. The exercise required to be undertaken under Section 11 of the said Act is not intended to be a routine 
exercise and also not an exercise in futility. It has to be not 
only effective but also result oriented. The petitioners have 
highlighted the lack of seriousness of the Government in 
carrying out the exercise. Voluminous datas have been 
brought on record in this regard. With reference to the reports 
of the Commission, learned counsel for the respondents on the 
other hand have stressed on the fact that the Commission has 
been working with all sincerity and with the object of 
effectively implementing the Backward Classes Act. One 
thing needs to be noted here. Concrete data about the number 
of backward classes in the country does not appear to be 
available. The survey conducted by the National Sample 
Survey reveals that the percentage is not 52% as is highlighted 
by the respondents. 77. Section 2(g) of the Act is relevant in this regard. It reads 
as follows: 78.	At this juncture, it is to be noted that the Backward 
Classes Act in order to be wholly functional mandates 
determination by the Central Government of the backward 
classes for whom the Statute is intended. Undisputedly, such 
determination has not been done. The plea is that for more 
than half a century enough attention has not been given for 
the benefit of the other backward classes in the matter of 
admissions to higher educational institutions. That cannot be 
a ground to act with hurry and with un-determined datas. It 
may be as rightly contended by learned counsel for the 
respondents that the percentage can certainly be not less than 
27%. But that is no answer to the important question as to the 
identity test. In the background loom the socially and 
economically backward class of citizens. Poverty knows no 
caste. Poor has no caste. It is an unfortunate class. It is a 
matter of common knowledge that the institution of caste is a 
peculiarity of Indian institution when there is considerable 
controversy amongst the scholars as to how the caste system 
originated in this country. Originally, there were four main 
castes known as Varnas . But gradually castes and sub-castes 
multiplied as the social fabric expanded with the absorption of 
different groups of people who belong to various cults and 
professing different religious faiths. The caste system in its 
earlier stage was quite elastic but in course of time it gradually 
hardened into a rigid framework based upon heredity. The 
inevitable result was social inequality. At some point of time 
occupation was the background for determination of castes. 
May be, at some point of time it depended on the income of the 
individual. But it appears to have taken disastrous turn with 
difference of status of various castes. But passage of time 
shows that the occupational label has lost much of its 
significance. But at the same time, the poor and down 
trodden who belong to the caste of their own were the 
founders of poor. In Indra Sawhney No.1 this factor was 
noticed. 79.	It is said that one must take life in ones stride, let today 
embrace the past with remembrance and the future with 
longing. 80.	Don't look for the path far away, the path exists under 
your feet. 81.	What is past and what cannot be prevented should not 
be grieved for. 82.	With reference to the Office Memorandum which provides 
for preference in favour of "poorer sections" over other 
members of the backward classes, the expression was held to 
be relatable to those who are socially and economically more 
backward. The use of the word 'poorer' in the context was held 
to be a measure of the social backwardness. It is therefore 
unmistakenly recognized that economic backwardness is a 
factor which can never be lost sight of. There are only two 
families in the world; the haves and the have nots said Miquel 
De Cervantes Don Qutxote de ta Mancha. Tolstoy has 
emphatically said "We will do anything for the poor man 
anything but get of his back" (quoted in Huntington 
Philanthrophy and Morality). 83.	William Cobbett had said "to be poor and independent is 
very nearly an impossibility. (See His book 'Advise to Young 
Men'). We cannot turn Nelson's eye to the poor, those covered 
by all encompassing expression "economically backward 
classes". 84.	Should this class of people be kept out of the mainstream 
of governmental priorities and policies because they belong to 
a particular caste? As noted above, the poor have no caste. A 
person belonging to a higher caste should not be made to 
suffer for what his forefathers had done several generations 
back. 85.	Franklin D Roosevelt in a speech in 1940 had said "It is 
an unfortunate human failing that a full pocket book often 
groans more loudly than an empty stomach". The haves and 
the have nots have to co-exist. If the creamy layer has to be 
excluded the economically backward classes have to be 
included. That would be social balancing and that would be 
giving true meaning of the objectives of the Constitution. 
Social empowerment cannot be and is certainly not a measure 
for only socially and educationally backward classes. It also 
has to be for the socially and economically backward classes. 
Unless this balance, which is very delicate, is maintained the 
system inevitably will develop a crack and this crack may after 
a certain point of time be difficult to be joined. Instead of 
lightening the society from castes or classes it will be over 
burdened and a point of time may come when we shall not be 
able to bear the burden any further. Timely steps in this 
regard will save the Indian society and democracy from a 
catastrophe of collapse because of something which the 
Constitution wants to obliterate. 86.	On the question of time period for the reservation, it is 
submitted that length of the leap to be provided depends 
upon the gap to be filled. It is fairly accepted by learned 
counsel for the respondents that as and when castes reach a 
higher level it is to be excluded from the zone of consideration. 
It is further submitted that traditional occupation is being 
pursued by persons belonging to some castes and the system 
still subsists and has not broken down. In the absence of 
alternative occupation which may not be lucrative, the persons 
who used to previously carry on the traditional occupation find 
it difficult to take up any other occupation. 87.	It has been averred that consequent to several efforts, 
India has made enormous progress in terms of increase in 
institutions, teachers and students in elementary education. 
But despite all the efforts large population of the children in 
the country still remain out of school. 88.	One of the contentions is that by passage of time 
prolonged reservation becomes illicit. In Motor General Traders 
and Anr. v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. (1984 (1) SCC 222) following observations were made: 89. In N.M. Thomas 's case (supra) the parameters of various 
clauses of Article 16 were highlighted as follows: This was the exercise which was to be undertaken apart from 
considering the applications for inclusion or exclusion as the 
case may be. As has been conceded at the beginning of the 
case affirmative action is not under challenge. Affirmative 
action is nothing but a crucial component of social justice in 
the constitutional dispensation but at the same time it has to 
be kept in view that the same does not infringe the principles 
of equality of which it is a part and/or unreasonably restraint 
or restrict other fundamental freedoms and that it does not 
violate the basic structure of the Constitution. 92.	It needs no emphasis that Articles 15(4) , 15(5) and 16(4) have to comply with the requirements of Article 14 and the 
discipline imposed in several other provisions like Articles 
15(4)(a) and 15(4)(b) , though, they form a part of the equality 
concept, each of which is so found in our Constitution. 93.	It is a well settled principle in law that the Court cannot 
read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and 
unambiguous. A statute is an edict of the Legislature. The 
language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of 
legislative intent. 94.	Words and phrases are symbols that stimulate mental 
references to referents. The object of interpreting a statute is 
to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it. (See 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. M/s Price 
Waterhouse and Anr. (AIR 1998 SC 74). The intention of the 
Legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, 
which means that attention should be paid to what has been 
said as also to what has not been said. As a consequence, a 
construction which requires for its support, addition or 
substitution of words or which results in rejection of words as 
meaningless has to be avoided. As observed in Crawford v. 
Spooner (1846 (6) Moore PC 1 ), Courts, cannot aid the 
Legislatures' defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or 
mend, and by construction make up deficiencies which are left 
there. (See The State of Gujarat and Ors. v. Dilipbhai 
Nathjibhai Patel and Anr. (JT 1998 (2) SC 253). It is contrary 
to all rules of construction to read words into an Act unless it 
is absolutely necessary to do so. (See Stock v. Frank Jones 
(Tiptan) Ltd. (1978 1 All ER 948 (HL). Rules of interpretation 
do not permit Courts to do so, unless the provision as it 
stands is meaningless or of doubtful meaning. Courts are not 
entitled to read words into an Act of Parliament unless clear 
reason for it is to be found within the four corners of the Act 
itself. (Per Lord Loreburn L.C. in Vickers Sons and Maxim Ltd. 
v. Evans (1910) AC 445 (HL), quoted in Jamma Masjid, 
Mercara v. Kodimaniandra Deviah and Ors. (AIR 1962 SC 847). 95.	The question is not what may be supposed and has been 
intended but what has been said. "Statutes should be 
construed not as theorems of Euclid". Judge Learned Hand 
said, "but words must be construed with some imagination of 
the purposes which lie behind them". (See Lenigh Valley Coal 
Co. v. Yensavage 218 FR 547). The view was re-iterated in Union of India and Ors. v. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem 
Vasco De Gama (AIR 1990 SC 981). 96.	In D.R. Venkatchalam and Ors. etc. v. Dy. Transport 
Commissioner and Ors. etc. (AIR 1977 SC 842), it was 
observed that Courts must avoid the danger of a priori 
determination of the meaning of a provision based on their 
own pre-conceived notions of ideological structure or scheme 
into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fitted. 
They are not entitled to usurp legislative function under the 
disguise of interpretation. 97.	While interpreting a provision the Court only interprets 
the law and cannot legislate it. If a provision of law is misused 
and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the 
legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary. 
(See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. v. Popular Trading 
Company, Ujjain (2000 (5) SCC 511). The legislative casus 
omissus cannot be supplied by judicial interpretative process. 98.	Two principles of construction  one relating to casus 
omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a 
whole  appear to be well settled. Under the first principle a 
casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the 
case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the 
four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus 
omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all 
the parts of a statute or section must be construed together 
and every clause of a section should be construed with 
reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the 
construction to be put on a particular provision makes a 
consistent enactment of the whole statute. This would be more 
so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to 
manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have 
been intended by the Legislature. "An intention to produce an 
unreasonable result", said Danackwerts, L.J. in Artemiou v. 
Procopiou (1966 1 QB 878), "is not to be imputed to a statute 
if there is some other construction available". Where to apply 
words literally would "defeat the obvious intention of the 
legislature and produce a wholly unreasonable result" we 
must "do some violence to the words" and so achieve that 
obvious intention and produce a rational construction. (Per 
Lord Reid in Luke v. IRC (1963 AC 557) where at p. 577 he 
also observed: "this is not a new problem, though our 
standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges". 99.	It is then true that, "when the words of a law extend not 
to an inconvenience rarely happening, but due to those which 
often happen, it is good reason not to strain the words further 
than they reach, by saying it is casus omissus, and that the 
law intended quae frequentius accidunt." "But," on the other 
hand, "it is no reason, when the words of a law do enough 
extend to an inconvenience seldom happening, that they 
should not extend to it as well as if it happened more 
frequently, because it happens but seldom" (See Fenton v. 
Hampton (1858) XI Moore, P.C. 347). A casus omissus ought 
not to be created by interpretation, save in some case of strong 
necessity. Where, however, a casus omissus does really occur, 
either through the inadvertence of the legislature, or on the 
principle quod semel aut bis existit praeterunt legislatores 
(legislators says pass over that which happens only once or 
twice), the rule is that the particular case, thus left unprovided 
for, must be disposed of according to the law as it existed 
before such statute - Casus omissus et oblivioni datus 
dispositioni communis juris relinquitur; "a casus omissus," 100.	The golden rule for construing wills, statutes, and, in 
fact, all written instruments has been thus stated: "The 
grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered 
to unless that would lead to some absurdity or some 
repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, 
in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the 
words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity and 
inconsistency, but no further" (See Grey v. Pearson (1857 (6) 
H.L. Cas. 61). The latter part of this "golden rule" must, 
however, be applied with much caution. "if," remarked Jervis, 
C.J., "the precise words used are plain and unambiguous in 
our judgment, we are bound to construe them in their 
ordinary sense, even though it lead, in our view of the case, to 
an absurdity or manifest injustice. Words may be modified or 
varied where their import is doubtful or obscure. But we 
assume the functions of legislators when we depart from the 
ordinary meaning of the precise words used, merely because 
we see, or fancy we see, an absurdity or manifest injustice 
from an adherence to their literal meaning" (See Abley v. Dale 
11, C.B. 378). 101.	Classifications on the basis of castes in the long run has 
tendency of inherently becoming pernicious. Therefore, the 
test of reasonableness has to apply. When the object is 
elimination of castes and not perpetuation to achieve the goal 
of casteless society and a society free from discrimination of 
castes judicial review within the permissible limits is not ruled 
out. But at the same time compelling State interest can be 
considered while assessing backwardness. The impact of 
poverty on backwardness cannot be lost sight of. Economic 
liberation and freedom are also important. In Nagaraj 's case 
(supra) it was inter alia observed as follows: 102. In the matter of application of the 
principle of basic structure, twin tests have to 
be satisfied, namely, the "width test" and the 
test of "identity". As stated hereinabove, the 
concept of the "catch-up" rule and 
"consequential seniority" are not constitutional 
requirements. They are not implicit in clauses 
(1) and (4) of Article 16. They are not 
constitutional limitations. They are concepts 
derived from service jurisprudence. They are 
not constitutional principles. They are not 
axioms like, secularism, federalism, etc. 
Obliteration of these concepts or insertion of 
these concepts does not change the equality 
code indicated by Articles 14 , 15 and 16 of the 
Constitution. Clause (1) of Article 16 cannot 
prevent the State from taking cognizance of the 
compelling interests of Backward Classes in 
the society. Clauses (1) and (4) of Article 16 are 
restatements of the principle of equality under Article 14. Clause (4) of Article 16 refers to 
affirmative action by way of reservation. 
Clause (4) of Article 16 , however, states that 
the appropriate Government is free to provide 
for reservation in cases where it is satisfied on 
the basis of quantifiable data that Backward 
Class is inadequately represented in the 
services. Therefore, in every case where the 
State decides to provide for reservation there 
must exist two circumstances, namely, 
"backwardness" and "inadequacy of 
representation". As stated above, equity, 
justice and efficiency are variable factors. 
These factors are context-specific. There is no 
fixed yardstick to identify and measure these 
three factors, it will depend on the facts and 
circumstances of each case. These are the 
limitations on the mode of the exercise of 
power by the State. None of these limitations 
have been removed by the impugned 
amendments. If the State concerned fails to 
identify and measure backwardness, 
inadequacy and overall administrative 
efficiency then in that event the provision for 
reservation would be invalid. These 
amendments do not alter the structure of Articles 14 , 15 and 16 (equity code). The 
parameters mentioned in Article 16(4) are 
retained. Clause (4-A) is derived from clause 
(4) of Article 16. Clause (4-A) is confined to 
SCs and STs alone. Therefore, the present case 
does not change the identity of the 
Constitution. The word "amendment" connotes 
change. The question iswhether the 
impugned amendments discard the original 
Constitution. It was vehemently urged on 
behalf of the petitioners that the Statement of 
Objects and Reasons indicates that the 
impugned amendments have been 
promulgated by Parliament to overrule the 
decisions of this Court. We do not find any 
merit in this argument. Under Article 141 of 
the Constitution the pronouncement of this 
Court is the law of the land. The judgments of 
this Court in Virpal Singh, Ajit Singh (I), Ajit 
Singh (II) and Indra Sawhney were judgments 
delivered by this Court which enunciated the 
law of the land. It is that law which is sought 
to be changed by the impugned constitutional 
amendments. The impugned constitutional 
amendments are enabling in nature. They 
leave it to the States to provide for reservation. 
It is well settled that Parliament while enacting 
a law does not provide content to the "right". 
The content is provided by the judgments of 
the Supreme Court. If the appropriate 
Government enacts a law providing for 
reservation without keeping in mind the 
parameters in Article 16(4) and Article 335 then this Court will certainly set aside and 
strike down such legislation. Applying the 
"width test", we do not find obliteration of any 
of the constitutional limitations. Applying the 
test of "identity", we do not find any alteration 
in the existing structure of the equality code. 
As stated above, none of the axioms like 
secularism, federalism, etc. which are 
overarching principles have been violated by 
the impugned constitutional amendments. 
Equality has two facets "formal equality" and 
"proportional equality". Proportional equality is 
equality "in fact" whereas formal equality is 
equality "in law". Formal equality exists in the 
rule of law. In the case of proportional equality 
the State is expected to take affirmative steps 
in favour of disadvantaged sections of the 
society within the framework of liberal 
democracy. Egalitarian equality is proportional 
equality. xx			xx			xx 107. It is important to bear in mind the nature 
of constitutional amendments. They are 
curative by nature. Article 16(4) provides for 
reservation for Backward Classes in cases of 
inadequate representation in public 
employment. Article 16(4) is enacted as a 
remedy for the past historical discriminations 
against a social class. The object in enacting 
the enabling provisions like Articles 16(4) , 
16(4-A) and 16(4-B) is that the State is 
empowered to identify and recognise the 
compelling interests. If the State has 
quantifiable data to show backwardness and 
inadequacy then the State can make 
reservations in promotions keeping in mind 
maintenance of efficiency which is held to be a 
constitutional limitation on the discretion of 
the State in making reservation as indicated by Article 335. As stated above, the concepts of 
efficiency, backwardness, inadequacy of 
representation are required to be identified and 
measured. That exercise depends on 
availability of data. That exercise depends on 
numerous factors. It is for this reason that 
enabling provisions are required to be made 
because each competing claim seeks to achieve 
certain goals. How best one should optimise 
these conflicting claims can only be done by 
the administration in the context of local 
prevailing conditions in public employment. 
This is amply demonstrated by the various 
decisions of this Court discussed hereinabove. 
Therefore, there is a basic difference between 
"equality in law" and "equality in fact" (see 
Affirmative Action by William Darity). If Articles 
16(4-A) and 16(4-B) flow from Article 16(4) and 
if Article 16(4) is an enabling provision then Articles 16(4-A) and 16(4-B) are also enabling 
provisions. As long as the boundaries 
mentioned in Article 16(4) , namely, 
backwardness, inadequacy and efficiency of 
administration are retained in Articles 16(4-A) and 16(4-B) as controlling factors, we cannot 
attribute constitutional invalidity to these 
enabling provisions. However, when the State 
fails to identify and implement the controlling 
factors then excessiveness comes in, which is 
to be decided on the facts of each case. In a 
given case, where excessiveness results in 
reverse discrimination, this Court has to 
examine individual cases and decide the 
matter in accordance with law. This is the 
theory of "guided power". We may once again 
repeat that equality is not violated by mere 
conferment of power but it is breached by 
arbitrary exercise of the power conferred". 102.	 	In Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India (1980) 3 SCC 625) it was observed as follows: 103.	 The view was affirmed in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and Ors. 
v. State of Karnataka and Ors. (2002 (8) SCC 481) 104.	 It has been highlighted that Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are 
irreconcilable. It is pointed out that Article 30 is not intended 
to pamper any class of people, but is intended to assure 
minorities regarding the right to establish. In that sense, Article 19(1)(g) is applicable. The said right is an inalienable 
and sacrosanct right. According to Mr. Venugopal, Article 
15(5) carved out an area from Article 15(4). Article 29(2) has to 
be read into Article 15(5) as Articles 15(4) and 15(5) operated 
side by side. As a result of Article 15(5) by special provision 
minorities unaided rights are excluded. Article 30 does not 
relate to any special right for protection against majority and it 
cannot be termed to be any higher right and, therefore, Article 
19(1)(g) restriction is not there. The object is not to create 
inequality. 105.	It is pointed out that both Articles 15(4) and 15(5) begin 
with non obstante provision. Article 15(5) is a later 
introduction. It is stated that Article 15(1) has to prevail over Article 15(4) and the right given to certain class of people in Article 15(4) gets eliminated because of Article 15(5). 106.	Provisions of the Constitution have to be read 
harmoniously and no part can be treated to be redundant. In 
our considered view both the provisions operate in different 
areas though there may be some amount of overlapping but 
that does not in any way lead to the conclusion that Article 
15(5) takes away what is provided in Article 15(4). 107.	A construction which reduces the statute to a 
futility has to be avoided. A statute or any enacting provision 
therein must be so construed as to make it effective and 
operative on the principle expressed in the maxim ut res magis 
valeat quam pereat i.e. a liberal construction should be put 
upon written instruments, so as to uphold them, if possible, 
and carry into effect the intention of the parties. [See Broom's 
Legal Maxims (10th Edn.), p. 361, Craies on Statutes (7th 
Edn.), p. 95 and Maxwell on Statutes (11th Edn.). 108.	 	A statute is designed to be workable and the 
interpretation thereof by a court should be to secure that 
object unless crucial omission or clear direction makes that 
end unattainable. (See Whitney v. IRC (1926 AC 37) at p. 52 
referred to in CIT v. S. Teja Singh ( AIR 1959 SC 352) and 
Gursahai Saigal v. CIT (AIR 1963 SC 1062). 109.	The courts will have to reject that construction 
which will defeat the plain intention of the legislature even 
though there may be some inexactitude in the language used. 
(See Salmon v. Duncombe (1886) 11AC 627 at p.634, Curtis v. 
Stovin (1889) 22 QBD 513) referred to in S. Teja Singh case .) 110.		If the choice is between two interpretations, the 
narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose 
of the legislation, we should avoid a construction which would 
reduce the legislation to futility, and should rather accept the 
bolder construction, based on the view that Parliament would 
legislate only for the purpose of bringing about an effective 
result. (See Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries (1940 
(3) All ER 549) referred to in Pye v. Minister for Lands for NSW 
(1954) 3 All ER 514. The principles indicated in the said cases 
were reiterated by this Court in Mohan Kumar Singhania v. 
Union of India (1992 Supp (1) SCC 594). 111.		The statute must be read as a whole and one 
provision of the Act should be construed with reference to 
other provisions in the same Act so as to make a consistent 
enactment of the whole statute. 112.		The court must ascertain the intention of the 
legislature by directing its attention not merely to the clauses 
to be construed but to the entire statute; it must compare the 
clause with other parts of the law and the setting in which the 
clause to be interpreted occurs. (See R.S. Raghunath v. State of 
Karnataka (1992) 1 SCC 335) Such a construction has the 
merit of avoiding any inconsistency or repugnancy either 
within a section or between two different sections or provisions 
of the same statute. It is the duty of the court to avoid a head-
on clash between two sections of the same Act. (See Sultana 
Begum v. Prem Chand Jain 1997 (1) SCC 373.) 113.	Whenever it is possible to do so, it must be done to 
construe the provisions which appear to conflict so that they 
harmonise. It should not be lightly assumed that Parliament 
had given with one hand what it took away with the other. 114.	 The provisions of one section of the statute cannot be 
used to defeat those of another unless it is impossible to effect 
reconciliation between them. Thus a construction that reduces 
one of the provisions to a "useless lumber" or "dead letter" is 
not a harmonized construction. To harmonise is not to 
destroy. 115.		The Constitution of India is not intended to be 
static. It is by its very nature dynamic. It is a living and 
organic thing. It is an instrument which has greatest value to 
be construed. "Ut Res Valeat Potius Quam Pereat" (the 
construction should be preferred which makes the machinery 
workable). Our Constitution reflects the beliefs and political 
aspirations of those who had framed it. It is therefore desirable 
that while considering the question as to whether 27% fixed 
for the other backward classes to be maintained without 
definite data the rights of those who belong to the unfortunate 
categories of other economic backward classes deserve to be 
concerned, else there shall be no definite determination of 
number of other backward classes. While fixing the measure 
for creamy layer it would not be difficult also to fix the norms 
for the socially and economically backward classes rather the 
latter exercise would be easier to undertake. 116.	 In Indra Sawhney's No.1 the desirability of excluding 
some posts from the zone of reservation was highlighted. It was 
also emphasized that periodic review of policy of reservation 
was imperative. It was inter-alia observed as follows: 3.	(a)	A caste can be and quite often is 
a social class in India. If it is 
backward socially, it would be a 
backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4). Among non-Hindus, 
there are several occupational 
groups, sets and denominations, 
which for historical reasons are 
socially backward. They too 
represent backward, social 
collectivities for the purposes of Article 16(4). (b)	Neither the Constitution nor the 
law prescribes the procedure or 
method of identification of backward 
classes. Nor is it possible or advisable 
for the court to lay down any such 
procedure or method. It must be left 
to the authority appointed to identify. 
It can adopt such method/procedure 
as it thinks convenient and so long as 
its survey covers the entire populace, 
no objection can be taken to it. Identification of the backward classes 
can certainly be done with reference 
to castes among, and alongwith, 
other occupational groups, classes 
and sections of people. One can start 
the process either with occupational 
groups or with castes or with some 
other groups. Thus one can start the 
process with castes, wherever they 
are found, apply the criteria (evolved 
for determining backwardness) and 
find out whether it satisfy the criteria. 
If it does-what emerges is a 
"backward class of citizens" within 
the meaning of and for the purposes 
of Article 16(4). Similar process can 
be adopted in the case of other 
occupational groups, communities 
and classes so as to cover the entire 
populace. The central idea and 
overall objective should be to consider 
all available groups, sections and 
classes in society. Since caste 
represents an existing, identifiable 
social group/class encompassing an 
overwhelming minority of the 
country's population, one can well 
begin with it and then go to other 
groups, sections and classes. (c)	It is not correct to say that the 
backward class of citizens 
contemplated in Article 16(4) is the 
same as the socially and 
educationally backward classes 
referred to in Article 15(4). It is much 
wider. The accent in Article 16(4) is 
on social backwardness. Of course, 
social, educational and economic 
backwardness are closely inter- twined in the Indian context. (d)	'Creamy layer' can be, and must 
be excluded. (e)	It is not necessary for a class to 
be designated as a backward class 
that it is situated similarly to the 
Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. f)	The adequacy of representation 
of a particular class in the services 
under the State is a matter within the 
subjective satisfaction of the 
appropriate Government. The 
judicial scrutiny in that behalf is the 
same as in other matters within the 
subjective satisfaction of an 
authority. (4) 	(a) A backward class of citizens 
cannot be identified only and 
exclusively with reference to 
economic criteria. (b) 	It is, of course, permissible for 
the Government or other authority to 
identify a backward class of citizens 
on the basis of occupation cum 
income, without reference to caste, if 
it is so advised. 5.	There is no constitutional bar to 
classify the backward classes of citizens 
into backward and more backward 
categories. 6.	(a) and (b) The reservations 
contemplated in clause (4) of Article 16 should not exceed 50%. While 50% shall 
be the rule, it is necessary not to put out of 
consideration certain extra ordinary 
situation inherent in the great diversity of 
this country and the people. 117. In Vasanth Kumar 's case (supra) at para 2(4), it was 
observed as follows: backward, to ventilate their views in a public 
debate on the practical impact of the policy of 
reservations." 118. In State of A.P. & Anr. v. P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595) 
at para 15, it was observed as follows: 119.	Significant observations were made in Kumari K.S. 
Jayasree and Anr. v. The State of Kerala and Anr. (1976 (3) 
SCC 730 ). At para 22 it was noted as follows: 120.	 Further, in Minor A. Peeriakaruppan, Sobha Joseph v. 
State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. (1971 (1) SCC 38) at para 29 it 
was observed as follows: 121.	It has been highlighted that the Act has been made 
applicable to Central Educational Institutions established, 
maintained or aided by the Central Government. Central 
Educational Institutions have been defined in Section 2(d) as 
follows: 122.	 It is pointed out that there cannot be any reservations 
in respect of super specialities and institutions imparting 
education of highly complex subjects. The example of All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences has been given. It has been 
pointed out that its status as an institution for super 
speciality has been judicially recognized. It needs to be noted 
that in terms of Section 4(b) of the Act certain educational 
institutions have been excluded from the operation of the Act. 123. The Act has been made inapplicable to them. It is to be 
noted that in the said provision, institutions of research, 
institutions of excellence, institutions of national and strategic 
importance have been specified in the Schedule to the Act . 
The proviso permits the Central Government as and when 
considered necessary to amend the Schedule. In other words, 
on an appropriate case being presented and established before 
the Central Government that the Institution is of excellence 
and/or a research institute and/or an institution of national 
and strategic importance, the Central Government can amend 
the Schedule and include such institution in the Schedule. In 
other words, it is permissible for the petitioners and anybody 
else to highlight to the Government about the desirability to 
include an Institution in the Schedule of the Act . 124.	 One of the major issues highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao was 
that in several cases the matriculation standard of education 
was considered to be the measure for measuring 
backwardness. It is, therefore, submitted that when at least 
half of the persons belonging to a particular caste have 
reached the matriculation level of education, they cannot be 
considered to be educationally backward any longer. It is 
therefore submitted that if that be taken as a yardstick for 
measuring backwardness then the reservation of seats for 
technical education or in higher studies cannot be sustained. 
It has also been highlighted that the shift of emphasis from 
primary and basic education to higher education is against the 
constitutional mandate making education compulsory in 
terms of Article 21-A of the Constitution. It is not correct to 
contend that in fixing the priorities the Government is the best 
Judge as contended by the respondents. It may be correct in 
matters relating to simple policy decisions but when the 
constitutional mandate is under consideration the underlying 
object has also to be kept in view. In this context reference is 
made to Article 46 of the Constitution. It is in that background 
pointed out by learned counsel for the petitioners that what 
cannot be lost sight of is the fact that is the foundation for 
basic, elementary and primary education. The educational 
backwardness can be obliterated when at least half of the 
persons belonging to a particular caste come up to a 
matriculation level. 125.	 There is substance in this plea. It is not merely the 
existence of schemes but the effective implementation of the 
schemes that is important. It is to be noted that financial 
constraint cannot be a ground to deny fundamental rights and 
the provision for the schemes and the utilization of the funds 
are also relevant factors. It appears that better coordination 
between the funds provider and the utiliser is necessary. It is 
suggested that putting stress on cut off limit by shifting from 
matriculation to Class XII level education as a benchmark of 
gauging educational backwardness will be a step in the right 
direction. Though as rightly contended by Mr. P.P. Rao that in 
several decisions, for example, M.R. Balaji 's case ( supra), 
Balram 's case ( supra) and Kumari K.S. Jayasree 's case 
(supra) the secondary education was taken to be the 
benchmark, ground reality cannot be lost sight of that with 
the limited availability of jobs and the spiraling increase in 
population, secondary or matriculation examination can no 
longer be considered to be an appropriate bench mark. It has 
to be at the most graduation. But the question arises whether 
technical education can be included while considering 
educational backwardness. A delicate balancing has to be 
done in this regard. While technical education cannot be the 
sole criteria for gauging educational backwardness it 
definitely will form part of 50 per cent norms fixed by this 
Court. Slightly variable plus or minus would be the 
appropriate standard to gauge educational backwardness. 126.	 One of the grey areas which have been highlighted by 
learned counsel for the petitioners is that caste is not a 
substitute for class and nevertheless the two terms are not 
synonyms. Much of the argument in this regard is centred 
round the paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra). The same read as under: 127.	 On a closer reading of the paragraphs it appears that 
this Court took note of the fact that several religions do not 
have any caste. Therefore, the first sentence of para`782 lays 
emphasis to begin somewhere  with some group, class or 
section. It also states that there is no set or recognized method 
and there is no law or other statutory instrument prescribing 
the methodology. In this context, it has also been stated that 
one can well begin with castes which represent explicit 
identifiable social classes or groupings. Therefore, the 
emphasis was on beginning with castes which represent as 
explicit identifiable social classes or grouping. Again in 
paragraph 783, it has been stated that in a vast country like 
India it is simply not practicable to fix the test for identifying 
backward classes. In that background it was held that if the 
real objective is to discover and locate the real backwardness 
and if such backwardness is found in a caste it can be 
considered as backwardness. Similarly if it is found in any 
other group, section or class they too can be treated as 
backward. The intention therefore is clear that if caste is 
found to be backward it can certainly be treated as backward. 
To give any other meaning would be adding or subtracting to 
what has been specifically stated in the decision. 128.	 It is also relevant to take note of certain earlier 
decisions referred to in Indra Sawhney No.1 case (supra) 
which throw beacon light on the issue. They are as under: Let us take the question of social 
backwardness first. By what test should it be 
decided whether a particular class is socially 
backward or not? The group of citizens to 
whom Article 15(4) applies are described as 
"classes of citizens", not as castes of citizens. A 
class, according to the dictionary meaning, 
shows division of society according to status, 
rank or caste. In the Hindu social structure, 
caste unfortunately plays an important part in 
determining the status of the citizen. Though 
according to sociologists and vedic scholars, 
the caste system may have originally begun on 
occupational or functional basis, in course of 
time, it became rigid and inflexible. The history 
of the growth of caste system shows that its 
original functional and occupational basis was 
later over-burdened with considerations of 
purity based on ritual concepts, and that led to 
its ramifications which introduced inflexibility 
and rigidity. This artificial growth inevitably 
tended to create a feeling of superiority and 
inferiority, and to foster narrow caste loyalties. 
Therefore, in dealing with the question as to 
whether any class of citizens is socially 
backward or not, it may not be irrelevant to 
consider the caste of the said group of citizens. 
In this connection it is, however, necessary to 
bear in mind that the special provision is 
contemplated for classes of citizens and not for 
individual citizens as such, and so, though the 
caste of the group of citizens may be relevant, 
its importance should not be exaggerated. If 
the classification of backward classes of 
citizens was based solely on the caste of the 
citizen, it may not always be logical and may 
perhaps contain the vice of perpetuating the 
castes themselves. xx			xx		xx			
		
 
 Besides, if the caste of the group of 
citizens was made the sole basis for 
determining the social backwardness of the 
said group, that test would inevitably break 
down in relation to many sections of Indian 
society which do not recognise castes in the 
conventional sense known to Hindu society. 
How is one going to decide whether Muslims, 
Christians or Jains, or even Lingayats are 
socially backward or not? The test of castes 
would be inapplicable to those groups, but 
that would hardly justify the exclusion of these 
groups in toto from the operation of Article 
15(4). It is not unlikely that in some States 
some Muslims or Christians or Jains forming 
groups may be socially backward. That is why 
we think that though castes in relation to 
Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider in 
determining the social backwardness of groups 
or classes of citizens, it cannot be made the 
sole or the dominant test in that behalf. Social 
backwardness is on the ultimate analysis the 
result of poverty to a very large extent. The 
classes of citizens who are deplorably poor 
automatically become socially backward. They 
do not enjoy a status in society and have, 
therefore, to be content to take a backward 
seat. It is true that social backwardness which 
results from poverty is likely to be aggravated 
by considerations of caste to which the poor 
citizens may belong, but that only shows the 
relevance of both caste and poverty in 
determining the backwardness of citizens. 2. R. Chitralekha v State of Mysore AIR 1964 
SC 1823

	Justice Subba Rao referred to the 
observations in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore and observed: 3. Minor P. Rajendran v State of Madras (1968 (2) SCR 787)

"The first challenge is to r. 5 on the ground 
that it violates Art. 15 of the Constitution. Article 15 forbids discrimination against any 
citizen on the grounds only of religion, race, 
caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. At the 
same time Art. 15(4) inter alia permits the 
State to make any special provision for the 
advancement of any socially and educationally 
backward classes of citizens. The contention is 
that the list of socially and educationally 
backward classes for whom reservation is 
made under r. 5 is nothing but a list of certain 
castes. Therefore, reservation in favour of 
certain castes based only on caste 
considerations violates Art. 15(1) , which 
prohibits discrimination on the ground o caste 
only. Now if the reservation in question had 
been based only on caste and had not taken 
into account the social and educational 
backwardness of the caste in question, it 
would be violative of Art. 15(1). But it must not 
be forgotten that a caste is also a class of 
citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially 
and educationally backward reservation can be 
made in favour of such a caste on the ground 
that it is a socially and educationally backward 
class of citizens within the meaning of Art. 
15(4). Reference in this connection may be 
made to the observations of this Court in M. R. 
Balaji v. State of Mysore ([1963] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 
439 at p. 459-460) to the effect that it was not 
irrelevant to consider the caste of a class of 
citizens in determining their social and 
educational backwardness. It was further 
observed that though the caste of a class of 
citizens may be relevant its importance should 
not be exaggerated; and if classification of 
backward classes of citizens was based solely 
on the caste of the citizen, it might be open to 
objection. It is true that in the present cases 
the list of socially and educationally backward 
classes has been specified by caste. But that 
does not necessarily mean that caste was the 
sole consideration and that persons belonging 
to these castes are also not a class of socially 
and educationally backward citizens. In its 
reply, the State of Madras has given the 
history as to how this list of backward classes 
was made, starting from the year 1906 and 
how the list has been kept upto date and 
necessary amendments made therein. It has 
also been stated that the main criterion for 
inclusion in the list was the social and 
educational backwardness of the caste based 
on occupations pursued by these castes. 
Because the members of the caste as a whole 
were found to be socially and educationally 
backward, they were put in the list. The matter 
was finally examined after the Constitution 
came into force in the light of the provisions 
contained in Art. 15(4). As it was found that 
members of these castes as a whole were 
educationally and socially backward, the list 
which had been coming on from as far back as 
1906 was finally adopted for purposes of Art. 
15(4). In short the case of the State of Madras 
is that the castes included in the list are only a 
compendious indication of the class of people 
in those castes and these classes of people had 
been put in the list for the purpose of Art. 
15(4) because they had been found to be 
socially and educationally backward. This is the position as explained in the 
Affidavit filed on behalf of the State of Madras. 
On the other hand the only thing stated in the 
petitions is that as the list is based on caste 
alone it is violative of Art. 15(1). In view 
however of the explanation given by the State 
of Madras, which has not been controverted by 
any rejoinder, it must be accepted that though 
the list shows certain castes, the members of 
those castes are really classes of educationally 
and socially backward citizens. No attempt was 
made on behalf of the petitioners/appellant to 
show that any caste mentioned in this list was 
not educationally and socially backward. No 
such averment was made in the affidavit in 
support of their cases, nor was any attempt 
made to traverse the case put forward on 
behalf of the State of Madras by filing a 
rejoinder affidavit to show that even one of the 
castes included in the list was not 
educationally and socially backward. In this 
state of the pleadings, we must come to the 
conclusion that though the list is prepared 
caste-wise, the castes included therein are as a 
whole educationally and socially backward and 
therefore the list is not violate of Art. 15. The 
challenge to r. 5 must therefore fail. 4)	State of Andhra Pradesh v P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595)

"In the context in which it occurs the 
expression "class" means a homogeneous 
section of the people grouped together because 
of certain likenesses or common traits and 
who are identifiable by some common 
attributes such as status, rank, occupation, 
residence in a locality, race, religion and the 
like. In determining whether a particular 
section forms a class, caste cannot be 
excluded altogether. But in the determination 
of a class a test solely based upon the caste or 
community cannot also be accepted. By cl. (1) Art. 15 prohibits the State from discriminating 
against any citizen on grounds only of religion, 
race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. 
By cl. (3) of Art. 15 the State is, 
notwithstanding the provision contained in cl. 
(1), permitted to make special provision for 
women and children. By cl. (4) a special 
provision for the advancement of any socially 
and educationally backward classes of citizens 
or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes is outside the purview of cl. (1). But cl. 
(4) is an exception to cl. (1). Being an 
exception, it cannot be extended so as in effect 
to destroy the guarantee of cl. (1). The 
Parliament has by enacting cl. (4) attempted to 
balance as against the right of equality of 
citizens the special necessities of the weaker 
sections of the people by allowing a provision 
to be made for their advancement. In order 
that effect may be given to cl. (4), it must 
appear that the beneficiaries of the special 
provision are classes which are backward 
socially and educationally and they are other 
that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes, and that the provision made is for their 
advancement." 5. Minor A. Peeriakaruppan (Minor) v. 
State of T.N. , (1971) 1 SCC 38 : 26. In para 10, Chapter V of the Backward 
Classes Commission's Report, it is observed: 27. Finally in para 13, the committee 
concludes with following observations: 28. The validity of the impugned list of 
backward classes came up for consideration 
before this Court in Rajendran case and this is 
what this Court observed therein: 29. Rajendran case is an authority for the 
proposition that the classification of backward 
classes on the basis of castes is within the 
purview of Article 15(4) if those castes are 
shown to be socially and educationally 
backward. No further material has been placed 
before us to show that the reservation for 
backward classes with which we are herein 
concerned is not in accordance with Article 
15(4). There is no gainsaying the fact that 
there are numerous castes in this country 
which are socially and educationally 
backward. To ignore their existence is to ignore 
the facts of life. Hence we are unable to uphold 
the contention that the impugned reservation 
is not in accordance with Article 15(4). But all 
the same the Government should not proceed 
on the basis that once a class is considered as 
a backward class it should continue to be 
backward class for all times. Such an 
approach would defeat the very purpose of the 
reservation because once a class reaches a 
stage of progress which some modern writers 
call as take off stage then competition is 
necessary for their future progress. The 
Government should always keep under review 
the question of reservation of seats and only 
the classes which are really socially and 
educationally backward should be allowed to 
have the benefit of reservation. Reservation of 
seats should not be allowed to become a vested 
interest. The fact that candidates of backward 
classes have secured about 50% of the seats in 
the general pool does show that the time has 
come for a de novo comprehensive examination 
of the question. It must be remembered that 
the Government's decision in this regard is 
open to judicial review." 6. State of A.P. v. U.S.V. Balram , (1972) 1 
SCC 660, at page 685 : xx			xx		xx 94. To conclude, though prima facie the list 
of Backward Classes which is under attack 
before us may be considered to be on the basis 
of caste, a closer examination will clearly show 
that it is only a description of the group 
following the particular occupations or 
professions, exhaustively referred to by the 
Commission. Even on the assumption that the 
list is based exclusively on caste, it is clear 
from the materials before the Commission and 
the reasons given by it in its report that the 
entire caste is socially and educationally 
backward and therefore their inclusion in the 
list of Backward Classes is warranted by Article 15(4). The groups mentioned therein 
have been included in the list of Backward 
Classes as they satisfy the various tests, which 
have been laid down by this Court for 
ascertaining the social and educational 
backwardness of a class." 7. Janki Prasad Parimoo v. State of 
J&K , (1973) 1 SCC 420, at page 432 : while Article 16(4) speaks only of "any 
backward class citizens". However, it is now 
settled that the expression "backward class of 
citizens" in Article 16(4) means the same thing 
as the expression "any socially and 
educationally backward class of citizens" in Article 15(4). In order to qualify for being called 
a "backward class citizen" he must be a 
member of a socially and educationally 
backward class. It is social and educational 
backwardness of a class which is material for 
the purposes of both Articles 15(4) and 16(4)." xx		xx		xx 24. It is not merely the educational 
backwardness or the social backwardness 
which makes a class of citizens backward; the 
class identified as a class as above must be 
both educationally and socially backward. In 
India social and educational backwardness is 
further associated with economic 
backwardness and it is observed in Balaji case referred to above that backwardness, socially 
and educationally, is ultimately and primarily 
due to proverty. But if proverty is the exclusive 
test, a very large proportion of the population 
in India would have to be regarded as socially 
and educationally backward, and if 
reservations are made only on the ground of 
economic considerations, an untenable 
situation may arise. Even in sectors which are 
recognised as socially and educationally 
advanced there are large pockets of poverty. In 
this country except for a small percentage of 
the population the people are generally poor  
some being more poor, others less poor. 
Therefore, when a social investigator tries to 
identify socially and educationally backward 
classes, he may do it with confidence that they 
are bound to be poor. His chief concern is, 
therefore, to determine whether the class or 
group is socially and educationally backward. 
Though the two words "socially" and 
"educationally" are used cumulatively for the 
purpose of describing the backward class, one 
may find that if a class as a whole is 
educationally advanced it is generally also 
socially advanced because of the reformative 
effect of education on that class. The words 
"advanced" and "backward" are only relative 
terms  there being several layers or strata of 
classes, hovering between "advanced" and 
"backward", and the difficult task is which 
class can be recognised out of these several 
layers as been socially and educationally 
backward." 25..Indeed all sectors in the rural areas 
deserve encouragement but whereas the 
former by their enthusiasm for education can 
get on without special treatment, the latter 
require to be goaded into the social stream by 
positive efforts by the State. That accounts for 
the raison-d'etre of the principle explained in Balaji case which pointed out that backward 
classes for whose improvement special 
provision was contemplated by Article 15(4) must be comparable to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes who are standing examples 
of backwardness socially and educationally. If 
those examples are steadily kept before the 
mind the difficulty in determining which other 
classes should be ranked as backward classes 
will be considerably eased." 8. State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas , (1976) 
2 SCC 310, at page 367 : 9. State of U.P. v. Pradip Tandon , (1975) 
1 SCC 267, at page 273 : indicates a homogeneous section of the people 
who are grouped together because of certain 
likenesses and common traits and who are 
identifiable by some common attributes. The 
homogeneity of the class of citizens is social 
and educational backwardness. Neither caste 
nor religion nor place of birth will be the 
uniform element of common attributes to make 
them a class of citizens." 10. K.S. Jayasree (Kumari) v. State of 
Kerala , (1976) 3 SCC 730, at page 733 : 129. In Chitrelekha 's case (supra) it was stated that the caste 
is the starting point. This is subject of course to the 
parameters that if the caste itself satisfies the test of 
backwardness which is implicit and inherent as noted in para 
782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra). In that case caste becomes 
the relevant factor. The view expressed in Chitralekha 's case 
(supra) was not dissented from in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra). In fact Justice Jeevan Reddy in the majority judgment in Indra 
Sawhney No.1 (supra) referred to Chitrelekha 's case (supra) at 
para 704. As noted above in para 782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) it has not been held that caste is class. In the said 
paragraph it has been stated that individual survey is out of 
question since Article 16(4) speaks of class protection and not 
individual protection. In that context also it has been said 
that it does not mean that one can wind up the process of 
identification for the castes. It has also been emphasized in 
the said paragraph that having exhausted the castes or 
simultaneously with it, the authority may take up for 
consideration other occupational groups, communities and 
classes. If caste is a substitute for class, the question of any 
simultaneous consideration of others does not arise. 
Therefore, the Court observed that one may well begin with 
castes if one chooses and then go to other groups, sections 
and classes. If the Court meant to substitute the word caste 
with class the question of going to other classes would not 
arise. 130.	 Reference may also be made to Akhil Bharatiya Soshit 
Karamchari Sangh (Railway) v. Union of India (UOI) and Ors. (1981(1) SCC 246) where at para 22 it was noted as follows: 131.	 Much emphasis has been laid on the use of the word 
'only'. It is to be noted that while the respondents contend that 
where it is demonstrated that caste is not the only 
consideration the permissible provision will operate. 
Reference was made to Venkataraman's case (supra). As has 
been rightly contended by learned counsel for the petitioners 
the true effect of the word 'only' has been clarified in the 
decision itself. 132.	 It is unnecessary to decide as it has been contended 
by learned counsel for the petitioners whether the concept of 
strict scrutiny is a measure of judicial scrutiny as highlighted 
by the conditions in India. It is submitted that label is not 
relevant. 133.	 The ultimate object is the eradication of castes and that 
is the foundation for reservation. While considering the 
method adopted for eradication by adopting the process of 
reservation indirectly the facet of strict scrutiny comes in. The 
strict scrutiny test was applied in the background of Article 19 vis-`-vis compelling State needs. The principle was recognized 
in Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1950 SCR 759). It was inter-alia quoted as follows: The phrase "reasonable restriction" 134.	 Again in State of Madras v. V.G. Row (AIR 1952 SC 196) 
it was observed as follows: 135.	 At the outset, it may be pointed out that the stand of 
petitioners is that the primary consideration in selection of 
candidates for admission to the higher educational institutions 
must be merit. The object of any rules, which may be made for 
regulating admissions to such institutions therefore, must be 
to secure the best and most meritorious students. The 
national interest and the demand of universal excellence may 
even override the interests of the weaker sections. In this 
context, Krishna Iyer J aptly observed: 136.	 Thus, the interest of no person, class or region can be 
higher than that of the nation. The philosophy and 
pragmatism of universal excellence through equality of 
opportunity for education and advancement across the nation 
is part of the constitutional creed. It is, therefore, the best and 
most meritorious students that must be selected for admission 
to technical institutions and medical colleges and no citizen 
can be regarded as outsider in the constitutional set-up 
without serious detriment to the `unity and integrity' of the 
nation. The Supreme Court has laid down that so far as 
admissions to post graduate course such as MS, MD and the 
like are concerned, it would be imminently desirable not to 
provide for any reservation based on residence or institutional 
preference. However, a certain percentage of seats are allowed 
to be reserved on the ground of institutional preference. But 
even in this regard, so far as super specialties such as 
neurosurgery and cardiology are concerned there should be no 
reservation at all even on the basis of institutional preference 
and admissions should be granted purely on all-India basis. 
Further, classification made on the basis of super-specialties 
may serve the interests of the nation better, though interests 
of individual states may to a small extent, be affected. 137.	 The need of a region or institution cannot prevail at the 
highest scale of specialty where the best skill or talent must be 
hand-picked by selecting them according to capability. At the 
level of Ph.D., M.D. or levels of higher proficiency where 
international measure of talent is made, where losing one 
great scientist or technologist in the making is a national loss, 
the considerations we have expanded upon as important, lose 
their potency. 138.	 The inevitable conclusion is that the impugned Statute 
can be operative only after excluding the creamy layer from 
identifiable OBCs. There has to be periodic review of the 
classes who can be covered by the Statute. The periodicity 
should be five years. To strike constitutional balance there is 
need for making provision for suitable percentage for socially 
and economically backward classes in the 27% fixed.
I 139.	 To sum up, the conclusions are as follows: Norms must be fixed keeping in view the 
peculiar features in different States and 
Union Territories. (5)	There has to be proper identification of Other 
Backward Classes (OBCs.). For identifying 
backward classes, the Commission set up 
pursuant to the directions of this Court in 
Indra Sawhney No.1 has to work more 
effectively and not merely decide applications 
for inclusion or exclusion of castes. While 
determining backwardness, graduation (not 
technical graduation) or professional shall be 
the standard test yardstick for measuring 
backwardness. (6)	To strike the constitutional balance it is 
necessary and desirable to ear-mark certain 
percentage of seats out of permissible limit of 
27% for socially and economically backward 
classes. (7)	In the Constitution for the purposes of both Articles 15 and 16 , caste is not synonyms 
with class and this is clear from the 
paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney 
No.1. However, when creamy layer is 
excluded from the caste, the same becomes 
an identifiable class for the purpose of Articles 15 and 16. (8)	Stress has to be on primary and secondary 
education so that proper foundation for 
higher education can be effectively laid. 
(9)	So far as the constitutional amendments are 
concerned: 140.	 	In view of the above-said conclusions, the writ 
petitions and the Contempt Petition (Civil) No.112/2007 in 
W.P. (C) No.265/2006 are disposed of.