Today the matter is listed for consideration on review application as 

well as preliminary issue No.(iv) framed by this court. Before adverting to 

consider the review application as well as preliminary issue, it would be appropriate 

to have a brief scrutiny of the facts of this case. This is a suit for permanent 

injunction simplicitor. The plaintiff claims himself to be in exclusive cultivatory 

possession of land comprised in Khasra Numbers 1/23/ (4­16), 18/20/2 (2­12), 19/16 

(2­17), 27/23 (4­12), 27/24/2 (0­16), 28/4 min. (west) (2­03), 28/7 min (east) (2­16) 

28/8 (4­16), 28/9 (4­16) 28/10 (4­16), 28/11/1 (3­12), 28/12/1 (3­12), 28/13 (4­14), 

28/17 (1­07), 28/18/1 (2­02), 29/6 (4­16), 29/11/2 (3­02), 29/15 (4­16), 29/16/1 (2­0), 

29/16/2 (2­12), 29/17 (5­10), 29/20 (3­12), 29/21/1 (3­03), 29/24/1 (1­08), 29/25/1 

(1­08), 30/25/2 (1­09) and 34/5/1 (3­0), situated in the revenue estate of village 

Daulatpur, Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the "suit land"). 2. Admittedly, the suit land was allotted to several landless persons from 

weaker sections of society from Daulatpur, by Pradhan of the village. The allottees 

after allotment of the suit land made the same cultivable and as per the plaintiff 

they mortgaged the same with him for some amount. The allottees had handed 

over the possession of suit land to the plaintiff at or around December' 1995, 

pending discharge of their financial liability towards him. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 2 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 3. Thereafter, the plaintiff filed various suits before the court of 

Ld.Revenue Assistant/SDM, Kapashera, U/s 85 of Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954 (hereinafter referred to as the " DLR Act ") seeking declaration, declaring him to be 

bhoomidar in respect of the suit land, whereas, the Ld.SDM/Revenue Assistant 

initiated proceedings U/s 86 (A) of DLR Act against him for his ejectment from the 

suit land and an ejectment order was passed against him. Against the said 

ejectment order dated 28.05.2007, plaintiff preferred an appeal before the Deputy 

Commissioner (South­West), being Appeal No.102/2007. The said appeal was 

dismissed by Ld.Deputy Commissioner on 30.10.2012. Against the said order, 

plaintiff has already filed a Revision Petition before the Ld.Financial Commissioner, 

which is pending consideration and no stay has been granted to him by the said 

Court. 4. During the pendency of aforesaid revision, the plaintiff has an 

apprehension that the possession of suit land would be taken away by the Gaon 

Sabha and as such, he has filed the present suit seeking decree of permanent 

injunction, restraining the defendant, i.e Gaon Sabha, Village Daulatpur from 

interfering in his possession and enjoyment of the suit land and committing any 

nuisance there. 5. Gaon Sabha has filed written statement, interalia taking the 

preliminary objections that the suit is not maintainable for want of Notice U/s 99 of Delhi Panchayat Raj Act, 1954 ; that the suit is bad for want of impleadment of 

Union of India U/s 161­A (a) of DLR Act ; that the suit is without any cause of 

action as the possession of suit land has already been taken over by the defendant Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 3 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

on 01.11.2012 through proper documentation; that the suit is bad for non­joinder of 

necessary parties, i.e allottees of the suit land; that the plaintiff is neither the 

bhoomidar nor the Assami in respect of suit land and as such, has no right, title or 

interest therein; and that this court has no jurisdiction to try the present suit being 

barred U/s 185 of DLR Act as the nature of suit land is agricultural and in the garb 

of injunction, the plaintiff is seeking declaration of his bhoomidari rights, which 

litigation he has already lost in competent revenue court. 6. On merits, it has been specifically denied that the plaintiff is in 

physical possession of any part of suit land and it has been specifically stated that 

he was duly ejected from the suit land on 01.11.2012. It is further stated that the 

allotment of suit land to even the allottees was not in accordance with the procedure 

established under the law and as such, no right, title or interest even to the allottees 

stood transferred in respect of the same. It has been further stated that even if it is 

presumed for the sake of arguments that the allotment was proper, even then the 

allottees did not have any right to transfer the same by way of mortgage to the 

plaintiff. It is the specific stand of defendant that the plaintiff was found in illegal 

possession of suit land and as such, proceedings U/s 86­ A of DLR Act were legally 

initiated against him and possession of the suit land was duly received by Gaon 

Sabha. It is further clarified that in the revision pending in the court of 

Ld.Financial Commissioner, there is no stay order passed in favour of plaintiff. 

The present suit has been termed to be an abuse of the process of court by the 

plaintiff. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 4 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 7. In replication, the plaintiff has denied the averments made in the 

written statement and has reiterated the ones made by her in the plaint. 8. On the basis of aforesaid pleadings of the parties, this court vide order 

dated 03.07.2013 had framed the following issues, out of which issue No.(iv) was 

treated as "preliminary issue". Preliminary Issue: Prior thereto, the application U/o 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC filed in the 

matter by the plaintiff was dismissed by this court vide order dated 16.03.2013, 

primarily on the ground that there was a cloud upon the right and title of plaintiff in 

respect of the suit land and as such, suit simplicitor for injunction was not 

maintainable. This court also considered the fact that the allottees were not entitled Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 5 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

under the law to transfer the possession of suit land to the plaintiff. Lastly, this 

court also appreciated the fact that possession of suit land also stood taken by the 

defendant on 01.11.2012 and as such, the plaintiff was not entitled to ad­interim 

injunction. 9. The present suit was filed by the plaintiff through her attorney Shri 

Dharambir Singh on 12.02.2013. The challenge to order dated 16.03.2013 by 

plaintiff, whereby the application U/o 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC was dismissed, failed 

before the Hon'ble High Court vide order dated 06.01.2014, passed in FAO No.

410/2013, titled as, "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur & Anr.". 10. I have heard arguments advanced at bar by Shri R.D Vats, learned 

counsel for the plaintiff and Shri S.S Dalal, learned counsel for the defendant. In 

the review application, plaintiff wants the review of order dated 16.03.2013, on the 

ground that the Kabza Karvai dated 01.11.2012 is false and as such, the said order is 

liable to be reviewed. The review application is hopelessly barred by limitation and 

is not accompanied by an application seeking condonation of delay. Even notice of 

this application has also not been issued so far to the defendant. The learned counsel 

for the defendant has very graciously accepted the notice thereupon today and has 

argued the said application without filing any formal reply thereto. He has 

advanced short argument to the effect that this court does not have jurisdiction to 

review an order which stood confirmed by the Hon'ble High Court in appeal. I find 

substance in the argument of learned counsel for the defendant. In this view of the 

matter, the review application is dismissed on the ground of limitation as well as on 

merits. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 6 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 11. Now, I have proceeded to hear arguments on the preliminary issue and 

my findings on the issue are as under. 12. Issue No.(iv): Preliminary Issue: The learned counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the plaintiff has 

been in settled possession of the suit land since the year 1995 and he cannot be 

dispossessed therefrom without following the due process of law; and as to whether 

the plaintiff has been in settled possession of the suit land or not, this court cannot 

go into the stand of defendant and the averments made in the plaint only have to be 

considered taking the same to be true on its face value. The plaintiff has herself 

stated to be in possession of the suit land and this court has to believe the same. Per 

contra, the learned counsel for the defendant has argued that even prior to filing of 

the present suit, the plaintiff stood duly ejected from the suit land and the Kabza 

Karvai to this effect was done in his presence on 01.11.2012, which fact has been 

duly mentioned by defendant in para 3 of preliminary objections and the same 

has not been denied by the plaintiff, therefore, the suit filed by the plaintiff is 

without any cause of action. It is further argued that the suit land was not 

transferable as there is a prohibition in law in this regard and as such, the possession Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 7 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

of plaintiff prior to being dispossessed from the suit land was illegal. It is next 

contended that the plaintiff has astutely not impleaded the allottees as parties in this 

case, whereas the said allottees have already approached the court of Ld.SDM and 

have filed their petitions in respect of the land(s) allotted to them under 20 point 

programme against the plaintiff. Lastly, it has been argued that the present suit is 

not maintainable because there is a cloud upon the rights of plaintiff in respect of 

the suit land and in terms of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 

case reported as, "AIR 2008 SC 2033", titled as, "Anathulla Sudhakar V/s P. 

Bucha Reddy", the plaintiff should have sought declaration, declaring her rights, 

title and entitlement in respect of the suit land, for which this court is not competent 

as there is a clear bar in this regard U/s 185 of DLR Act as the said declaration can 

be granted only by the Revenue Court. Lastly, it has been argued that the plaintiff 

has made material concealment with regard to she having been dispossessed from 

the suit land even prior to institution of the present suit. She has further committed 

fraud by misrepresenting the judgments in some other litigations before the Hon'ble 

High Court with a view to secure undue advantage from this court. 13. I have duly considered the submissions made by both the sides. I 

would firstly deal with the aspect of material concealment, misrepresentation and 

fraud. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as, "I (2004) BC 187 BC", 

titled as, "Ram Chandra Singh V/s Savitri Devi & Ors." has been pleased to hold 

as under: CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 16. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which 
 induces the other person, or authority to take a 
 definite determinative stand as a response to the 
 conduct of former either by word or letter. 17. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself 
 amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation 
 may also give reason to claim relief against fraud. 18. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and 
 consists in leading a man into damage by willfully or 
 recklessly causing him to believe and act on falsehood. 
 It is a fraud in law if a party makes representations 
 which he knows to be false, and injury ensues 
 therefrom although the motive from which the 
 representations proceeded may not have been bad. 19. In Derry v. Peek, (1889) 14 AC 337, it was held: 20. In Kerr on Fraud and Mistake at page 23, it is 
 stated: 21. In Bigelow on Fraudulent Conveyances at page 1, 
 it is stated : 22. It was further opined: 23. Recently this Court by an order dated 3^rd 
 September, 2003 in Ram Preeti Yadav v. U.P. Board of 
 High School & Intermediate Education and Ors . reported in JT 2003 (Supp. 1) SC 25 held: In S.P. Chengalyaraya Naidu V/s Jagannath [(1994) 
 1 SCC 1] this Court stated that fraud avoids all 
 judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal." 24. An act of fraud on court is always viewed 
 seriously. A collusion or conspiracy with a view to 
 deprive the rights of the others in relation to a 
 property would, render the transaction void ab initio. 
 Fraud and deception are synonymous. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 11 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 25. In Arlidge & Parry on Fraud, it is stated at page 
 21: 26. Although in a given case a deception may not 
 amount to fraud, fraud is anathema to all equitable 
 principles and any affair tainted with fraud cannot be 
 perpetuated or saved by the application of any 
 equitable doctrine including res­judicata. 27. In Smt. Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Brothers , it has 
 been held that: CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 28. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath [(1994) 
 1 SCC 1] this Court in no uncertain terms observed: 29. In Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) Pvt. Ltd. , 
 this Court after referring to Lazarus Estates(supra) 
 and other cases observed that 'since fraud affects the 
 solemnity, regularity and orderliness of the 
 proceedings of the Court it also amounts to an abuse 
 of the process of the Court, that the Courts have 
 inherent power to set aside an order obtained, by 
 practising fraud upon the Court, and that where the 
 Court is misled by a party or the Court itself commits Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 13 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

 a mistake which prejudices a party, the Court has the 
 inherent power to recall its order". 30. It was further held: 31. In Chittaranjan Das v. Durgapore Project Limited 
 and Ors. , It has been held: CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 32. Keeping in view the aforementioned principles, the 
 questions raised in these appeals are required to be 
 considered. The High Court observed that the 
 application of intervention filed by the appellant 
 purported to be under Order XXVI, Rules 13 and 14(2) 
 and Order XX, Rule 18 was not maintainable as they 
 do not confer any power to court for setting aside a 
 preliminary decree on the ground that it was obtained 
 by practising fraud. But once the principles 
 aforementioned are to be given effect to, indisputably 
 the court must be held to have inherent jurisdiction in 
 relation thereto. 33. In Manohar Lal Chopra v. Raj Bahadur Rao Raja 
 Seth Hiralal , the law is stated in the following terms: xxxxx 14. In the light of law laid down in the aforesaid judgments, now let us see 

the facts of present case as to whether the plaintiff has tried to make an endeavour 

to commit fraud upon this court. The answer has to be a "big yes". In paras 7 to 10 

of the plaint, the plaintiff has tried to project as if the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi 

in a few writ petitions filed by her had directed recording of her possession in the 

revenue records in respect of suit land, whereas the plaintiff was duly aware that the Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 15 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

directions for recording of her possession in those litigations was in respect to other 

land(s), wherein the plaintiff had Agreement to Sell in respect of those lands and 

where the plaintiff had already filed a suit for specific performance against the 

sellers and during those proceedings she had been cultivating the land comprised in 

those cases, but her possession was not being recorded in the revenue record. The 

Hon'ble High Court nowhere in any of the aforesaid cases ever gave directions to the 

revenue authorities to consider the right, title and entitlement of the plaintiff in 

respect of the suit land. 15. By not denying the Kabza Karvai dated 01.11.2012 qua the suit land 

and projecting before this court that the plaintiff still has the possession of suit 

land, she has tried to commit fraud upon this court. The plaintiff has approached 

this court and has invoked the equity jurisdiction and it is settled law that one who 

seeks equity must do equity and he/she should approach the court fairly, which the 

plaintiff has miserably failed in this case. I would have dismissed the suit of 

plaintiff on this score itself, but I do not want the plaintiff to again burden the 

higher courts with regard to the same subject matter and as such, I proceed to 

consider the other points raised in this case. 16. Whether the possession of plaintiff prior to she being dispossessed 
 could be said to be settled possession in the eyes of law or not?

 As per the case set up by the plaintiff herself, she had lent some 

money to the allottees who had transferred possession of their lands to her and she 

had been continuing in possession of the suit land for want of the said allottees Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 16 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

having repaid the said amount. Let us see, as to whether the allotment in favour of 

said allottees was proper and whether they had the right to transfer the possession of 

their lands to the plaintiff under the DLR Act ? 17. Admittedly, the suit land was allotted to the landless people from 

lower strata of society and the said allotment was made to them U/s 74 of DLR Act . 

The said allotment was probably made to them by the Pradhan of village itself and 

there is no documentary evidence that the said allotment was in accordance with 

rules. In any case, the Government of NCT of Delhi did not ratify said allotments. 

There is no document on record in this regard and as such, this court is handicapped 

to consider the said aspect at the initial stage of this case, but the law with regard to 

allottees of such land bars them from selling, mortgaging or transferring is now 

fairly settled. In this regard, the reference could be had to the celebrated judgment 

of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as, "JT 1995 (3) SC 563", "Murlidhar 

Dayandeo Kesekar V/s Vishwanath Pandu Barde & Anr." The operating part of the said judgment is in para 24, which is reproduced as under: The government evolved two pronged economic 
 policies to render economic justice to the poor. The Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 17 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

 Planning Commission evolved policies like DRDL for 
 economic empowerment of the weaker sections of the 
 society; the Dalits and tribes in particular. There 
 should be short term policy for immediate sustenance 
 and long term policy for stable and permanent 
 economic empowerment. All the State governments 
 also evolved assignment of its lands or the lands 
 acquired under the ceiling laws to them. Appropriate 
 legislative enactments are brought on statute books to 
 prevent alienation of the assigned lands or the 
 property had under the planned schemes, and imposed 
 prohibition there­ under of alienation, declaring any 
 conveyance in contravention thereof as void or illegal 
 and inoperative not to bind the State or the assignee. 
 In case the assignee was disqualified or not available, 
 on resumption of such land, the authorities arc 
 enjoined to resume the property and as­ sign to heir or 
 other eligible among the Dalits and tribes or weaker 
 sections in terms of the policy. The prohibition is to 
 effectuate the constitutional policy of economic 
 empowerment under Articles 14 , 2 1 , 38 , 39 and 46 read with the Preamble of the Constitution. Even in 
 respect of private sales of the lands belonging to 
 tribes, statutes prohibit alienation without prior 
 sanction of the competent authority. 25. It is seen that prior permission for alienation of 
 the land was a condition precedent. Before permission 
 is given, the competent authority is enjoined, by 
 operation of Article 46 of the Constitution, to enquire 
 whether such alienation is void under law or violates 
 provisions of the Constitution and whether permission 
 could be legitimately given. In that behalf, the 
 competent authority is enjoined to look to the nature of 
 the property, subject­matter of the proposed 
 conveyance and pre­existing rights flowing thereunder 
 and whether such alienations or encumbrances violate Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 18 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

 provisions of the Constitution or the law. If the answer 
 is in the positive, then without any further enquiry the 
 permission straightaway would be rejected. Even in 
 case the permission is granted, it would be decided on 
 the anvil of the relevant provisions of the Constitution 
 and the law. In this case, the authorities, though had 
 not adverted to the aspect of the matter, broadly 
 refused permission on the ground that the assigned 
 land cannot be permitted to be sold or converted to 
 non­agricultural use. The action refusing permission, 
 therefore, is in consonance with the Constitutional 
 scheme in Part IV of the Directive Principles. The 
 agreement is, therefore, void under s.23 of the Contract Act as opposed to public policy vide 
 judgment in DTC v. DTC Mazdoor Congress, 
 1990 (suppl.) 1 SCR, 192, by one of us Ramaswamy, J. with whom Sawant and Ray, JJ. agreed by separate 
 but concurring judgment and the permission was 
 rightly refused to be given for alienation. The 
 possession is unlawful. Section 53 ­ A of Transfer of 
 Property Act is not attracted. The appellant's 
 possession continues to be unlawful and he is not 
 entitled to any improvement made on the lands. The 
 Collector is directed to resume the lands immediately 
 and assign the same to the legal representatives of first 
 respondent, if found eligible or to any other eligible 
 tribal. xxxxx 18. The said judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court was in respect of 

State of Maharashtra. Thereafter, the question ultimately came up before the 

Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case reported as, "107 (2003) DLT 726", titled as, 

"Pawan Kumar & Ganga Bishan Gupta V/s Financial Commissioner, Delhi & 

Ors.", where the provisions of Section 74 and 75 of DLR Act were in question. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 19 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi duly considered the aforesaid judgment of the 

Hon'ble Supreme Court applied the ratio to the land allotted U/s 74 and 75 to the 

weaker sections in Delhi and held as under: 19. ..... 20. Thus clear mandate of the Supreme Court in 
 the aforesaid judgment was that such a grant to the 
 landless labourers was for their economic upliftment 
 and thus sale by such applicants would not be 
 permissible as it would defeat the very purpose of 
 grant of land to such landless labourers. xxxxx
 (underlining which is mine is emphasized) 19. If the law laid down in the aforesaid judgments of the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court and Hon'ble High Court of Delhi is applied to the facts of the 

present case, then it would be clearly apparent that the allottees did not have any 

right to transfer the allotted land to plaintiff and as such, the plaintiff did not get any 

legally enforceable right against the Government in respect of the suit land. 

According to me, the limited right which the plaintiff has against the allottees and 

that too seeking return of the loan amount, if any. The said claim cannot be legally Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 21 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

enforced by her by getting herself declared bhoomidar of the suit land. The 

plaintiff very conveniently did not implead the said allottees in this litigation as that 

would have exposed her substantially and now in any case the said allottees have 

already approached the court of Revenue Assistant where all the parties have been 

litigating and this court would not enter into that sphere in this litigation. 20. Whether this court does not have jurisdiction to try the present suit? The land in this case is admittedly agricultural land and the present 

suit is suit simplicitor seeking permanent injunction and there is clearly cloud to the 

right and title of the plaintiff in respect thereof. Then as to whether the suit 

simplicitor for injunction is maintainable or not is clearly answered by the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court in case reported as, "AIR 2008 SC 2033", titled as, "Anathulla 

Sudhakar V/s P. Bucha Reddy", wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has been 

pleased to hold as under: But a person in wrongful possession is not entitled to 
 an injunction against the rightful owner. Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 22 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

 11.2 Where the title of the plaintiff is not disputed, but 
 he is not in possession, his remedy is to file a suit for 
 possession and seek in addition, if necessary, an 
 injunction. A person out of possession, cannot seek the 
 relief of injunction simpliciter, without claiming the 
 relief of possession. 11.3 Where the plaintiff is in possession, but his title to 
 the property is in dispute, or under a cloud, or where 
 the defendant asserts title thereto and there is also a 
 threat of dispossession from defendant, the plaintiff 
 will have to sue for declaration of title and the 
 consequential relief of injunction. Where the title of 
 plaintiff is under a cloud or in dispute and he is not in 
 possession or not able to establish possession, 
 necessarily the plaintiff will have to file a suit for 
 declaration, possession and injunction. 12. We may however clarify that a prayer for 
 declaration will be necessary only if the denial of title 
 by the defendant or challenge to plaintiff's title raises a 
 cloud on the title of plaintiff to the property. A cloud is 
 said to raise over a person's title, when some apparent 
 defect in his title to a property, or when some prima 
 facie right of a third party over it, is made out or 
 shown. An action for declaration, is the remedy to 
 remove the cloud on the title to the property. On the 
 other hand, where the plaintiff has clear title 
 supported by documents, if a trespasser without any 
 claim to title or an interloper without any apparent 
 title, merely denies the plaintiffs title, it does not 
 amount to raising a cloud over the title of the plaintiff 
 and it will not be necessary for the plaintiff to sue for 
 declaration and a suit for injunction may be sufficient. 
 Where the plaintiff, believing that defendant is only a 
 trespasser or a wrongful claimant without title, files a 
 mere suit for injunction, and in such a suit, the Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 23 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

 defendant discloses in his defence the details of the 
 right or title claimed by him, which raises a serious 
 dispute or cloud over plaintiff's title, then there is a 
 need for the plaintiff, to amend the plaint and convert 
 the suit into one for declaration. Alternatively, he may 
 withdraw the suit for bare injunction, with permission 
 of the court to file a comprehensive suit for declaration 
 and injunction. He may file the suit for declaration 
 with consequential relief, even after the suit for 
 injunction is dismissed, where the suit raised only the 
 issue of possession and not any issue of title. 13. In a suit for permanent injunction to restrain the 
 defendant from interfering with plaintiff's possession, 
 the plaintiff will have to establish that as on the date of 
 the suit he was in lawful possession of the suit 
 property and defendant tried to interfere or disturb 
 such lawful possession. Where the property is a 
 building or building with appurtenant land, there may 
 not be much difficulty in establishing possession. The 
 plaintiff may prove physical or lawful possession, 
 either of himself or by him through his family members 
 or agents or lessees/licensees. Even in respect of a 
 land without structures, as for example an agricultural 
 land, possession may be established with reference to 
 the actual use and cultivation. The question of title is 
 not in issue in such a suit, though it may arise 
 incidentally or collaterally. xxxxx

 (underlining emphasized) 21. Even prior to the decision in Anathulla Sudhakar's case (supra), the 

law laid down by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi was also clear in case reported 

as, "36 (1988) DLT 428", titled as, "Hoshiar Singh Etc. V/s Gaon Sabha, 

Daryapur Kalan & Ors.", wherein the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in a suit Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 24 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014

simplicitor for injunction in respect of the agricultural land came to the conclusion 

that without seeking declaration of his bhoomidari rights from the Revenue Courts, 

suit simplicitor for injunction cannot be filed by a person claiming himself to be in 

possession thereof. 22. In somewhat similar circumstances, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi 

in case reported as, "79 (1999) DLT 305", titled as, "Ram Karan & Ors. V/s 

Jagdeep Rai and Sons", has been pleased to hold as under: There is specific bar for maintaining such a suit as 
 laid down under Section 185 of the Delhi Land 
 Reforms Act." xxxxx Order on Preliminary Issue: "Suit Dismissed" Page 25 of 26 CS No.1739/2013: "Smt.Angoori Devi V/s Gaon Sabha, Daulatpur" Date of Order: 12.03.2014 23. Even otherwise, in this regard Section 190 of DLR Act is relevant, 

which is reproduced as under: (2) The provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 
 1897) shall mutatis mutandis apply, as far as may be, to this 
 Act in the same manner as they apply to a Central Act. 

 A bare perusal of said provision clearly stipulates that the Revenue 

Court has the power to grant ad­interim injunction during the course of proceedings 

pending before it. Therefore, the present suit is barred under the law. 24. Seeing from another angle, the present suit is not maintainable before 

this court. The issue is accordingly decided in favour of defendant and against the 

plaintiff and the suit is accordingly dismissed with cost of Rs.10,000/­, to be paid by 

the plaintiff to the defendant. 25. Decree Sheet be prepared accordingly. 26. File be consigned to Record Room.