1. List revised. 2.Sri Abhishek Dwivedi, Advocate appears on behalf of first informant/opposite party no.4 and files his vakalatnama today in Court, the same is taken on record. 3. Heard Sri Nipun Singh, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Abhishek Dwivedi, learned counsel for the first informant/opposite party no.4, Sri Triveni Saran Rai, learned counsel for the State and perused the material on record. 4. Learned counsel for the State submits that he has received instructions in the matter for which time was prayed and granted to him vide order dated 27.5.2025. 5. This bail application under Section 483 BNSS has been filed by the applicant-Balram Mishra, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No.0632 of 2024, under Sections 376(2)(n) , 506 IPC and Section 5(L) , 6 of POCSO Act, P.S. Khoda, District Ghaziabad. 6. The FIR of the matter was lodged on 11.11.2024 by the victim against the applicant alleging therein that she is aged about 18 years and 6 months. She was living with her brother and working. In June, 2021 she went to the house of her sister and lived till January, 2023. During the said period the applicant touched her inappropriately. In June, 2022 when her sister had gone to market, the applicant committed rape upon her and clicked her nude photo and made a video. He then blackmailed her and established physical relationship with her. She told her sister that her husband touches her inappropriately on which she sent back her to her house. Later on her marriage was fixed on which the applicant went to the said place and showed her photo and told her relationship on which the said marriage broke. A report be lodged and action be taken. 7. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is argued that the victim is a major girl. The trial in the matter has started in which the victim has been examined as P.W.2 who did not support the prosecution case in full and has been declared hostile.It is further argued that the victim has stated that there is matrimonial discord between her sister and the applicant and she had gone to the police to make the complaint on which the police told her to lodge such report to implicate on which she had lodged the report.It is further argued that the victim denied her medical examination when produced before the doctor concerned.It has also been pointed out that the applicant is not having any criminal history as stated in para 18 of the affidavit. The applicant is in jail since 11.11.2024. 8. Per contra learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer for bail. Learned counsel for the informant did not oppose the prayer for bail and reiterates the fact as stated by the victim in her statement before the trial court. 9. After hearing the counsel for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that the victim is a major girl. The applicant is the brother-in-law/Jeeja of the victim. The victim while being examined as P.W.2 before the trial court has not supported the prosecution case and has been declared hostile. 10. Looking to the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of evidence and also the absence of any convincing material to indicate the possibility of tampering with the evidence, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 11. Let the applicant-Balram Mishra, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- 12. The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by court concerned and in case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. 13. The bail application is allowed. 14. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. (Samit Gopal, J.) 
 
Order Date :- 16.7.2025
 
Gaurav Kuls