On 21st of june 2017, i received a call from delhi number[protected]. The caller named himself as rahul (Not sure about his identity) and offered me job placement services from jobishh.com for lucrative placements in uae and other locations. Understanding my office engagements he promised to call me back in the evening.in the evening he placed me on a call with another executive who named himself as mr jason. He explained me about 2/3 opportunities in banks in dubai and advised me to get myself registered at jobishh.com for rs 7150 so that my profile can be taken forward with the recruiters for a telephonic interview, skype call and further personal interview. I fell into the trap and got myself registered. During my call with mr jason he confirmed that no other payment will be required from my side to take things forward. After a successful payment he directed me to another person who named himself as mr bharat reddy. Mr bhrat reddy asked me to make another payment of rs 13200 and categorically told me that in order to take things forward this additional payment is required else as per the current contract (In effect after payment of rs 7150) is good enough only for sharing of profiles with the recruiters and nothing else. Things for placements will not actually materialize unless i make this additional payment of rs13200. Upon hearing this i got furious and told him to refund the registration amount as i realized that i have been trapped by these people. The call was disconnected. I request the authorities to take stern action against these agencies. These are fraudulent companies and playing with the emotions and needs of youngsters. I am an experienced professional and well equipped to take a hit of rs 7150 on my wallet but these agencies are duping a lot of fresh graduates by charging a hefty amount and falsely displaying rosy scenarios with fake lucrative highly paid opportunities. Unfortunately to prove my write up i only have a telephone number of the agency which is mentioned above and possibly retrievable call records as a testimonial. The agency has a legitimate website though www.jobishh.com. they forced me into a fraud by making false promises and many other youngsters are falling prey to many agencies of this nature. I appeal the authorities to please help the job seekers. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)