CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 626 &
629 of 1971. From the Judgment and Order dated 5-8-1970 of	 the
Rajasthan High Court in R.F.A. No. 31/60. S. T. Desai and Naunit Lal for the Appellant.
 P. R. Mridul, B.	P. Sharma, Krishna Bhatt and R. K.
Bhatt for the Respondents. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
 VENKATARAMIAH, J.-These	 two	cross	appeals	 by
certificate arise out of a suit for possession of a house
situate in Bikaner and	 for damages for use and occupation
thereof filed in Civil	 Original Case No. 17 of 1957 on the
file of	 the District Judge, Bikaner. The plaintiffs in the
suit are the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 626 of 1971 and
the defendant is the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 629 of
1971. The genealogy showing the relationship	between	 the
parties is given below:- The principal issue which arises for consideration
relates to the ownership of the suit house. It is admitted
on all hands that though Bharat Singh and the defendant were
living in the suit house from the year 1928, it continued to
be the	property of the Maharaja of Bikaner till the date on
which the patta (Exh.	4) was	issued by the Patta Court of
Bikaner and that on the issue	 of the patta, the State
Government ceased to be its owner. It is also not disputed
that the patta constituted the title deed in respect of the
suit house and it was issued in the names of the plaintiffs
on receipt of a sum of Rs. 5,000. On January 11, 1930, the
defendant had made an application, a certified copy of which
is marked as Exhibit A-116 to	 the Revenue Minister of the
State of Bikaner making enquiry about the price of the suit
house on coming to know that the State Government intended
to sell	 it. After the	 above	application was made,	 the
defendant left	the service of the State of Bikaner and went
to Banaras for	 studies. Bharat Singh who was also an
employee of the State Gov- ernment was working as	 the Aid-de-Camp of the Maharaja in
1939. At the request of Bharat Singh, an order was made by
the Maharaja on May 4, 1939 sanctioning the sale of the suit
house for a sum of Rs. 5,000. Exhibit A-118 is the certified
copy of the said order. Exhibit A-120 is a certified copy of
the order of Tehsil Malmandi showing that a sum of Rs. 5,000
had been deposited on	behalf of Bharat Singh	 towards the
price of the suit house. It also shows that Bharat Singh was
asked to intimate the name of the person in whose favour the
patta should be prepared. Presumably, the patta was issued
in the	names of the plaintiffs as desired by Bharat Singh
and Exhibit A-121 shows that it was handed over on September
30, 1940. The patta was produced before the trial court by
the plaintiffs. By the time the patta was issued in the names of the
plaintiffs, the	 mother of plaintiff No. 2 had died. He was
about eight years of age in 1940 and	 he and	 his younger
brother, Dalip	Singh were under the protection of Bharat
Singh who was a bachelor. They were staying with him in the
suit house. The defendant also was residing	in it.	 The
plaintiffs who claimed title to the property under the patta
in the	course of the trial attempted to prove that the sum
of Rs.	5,000 which was paid by way of consideration for the
patta by Bharat Singh	came out of the jewels of the mother
of plaintiff No. 2 which had	come into the possession of
Bharat Singh on her death. The plaintiff No.	 2 who	gave
evidence in the trial court stated that he had not given any
money to Bharat Singh	for the purchase of the house but he
had come to know from his father, plaintiff No. 1 that it
had been purchased with his money. Jaswant Singh (P.W. 2)
and Kesri Singh (P.W.	3) to whose evidence we will make a
reference in some detail at a later stage also stated that
they had heard from Bharat Singh that the jewels of	 the
mother of plaintiff No. 2 were with him suggesting that they
could have been the source of the price house. Plaintiff No.
1 who could have given evidence on the above question did
not enter the witness box. It is stated that he was a person
of weak	 mind and after the death of Bharat Singh	 was
behaving almost	 like a mad man. The defendant stated in the
course of his evidence	 that the mother of plaintiff No. 2
had gold jewels weighing about 3-4 tolas only. In this state
of evidence, it is difficult to hold that the plaintiffs
have established that the consideration for the suit house
was paid by them. The finding	 of the trial court that the
house had been purchased by Bharat Singh for the plaintiffs
with their money cannot be upheld. The case of the defendant
that the price of the suit house was paid out of the funds
belonging to him and Bharat Singh has been rejected both by
the trial court and the High Court. On going 635 through the evidence adduced by the defendant, we feel that
there is no reason for us to disturb the concurrent findings
arrived at by the trial court	 and the High Court on the
above question.	 We shall, therefore, proceed to decide the
question of title on the basis that the consideration for
the purchase of the house was	 paid by Bharat Singh out of
his own funds. It	 was contended	 by the learned counsel for	 the
defendant that	since the plaintiffs had failed to establish
that they had contributed the price paid for the suit house,
the suit should be dismissed without going into the question
whether Bharat	Singh had purchased the suit house with his
money in the names of the plaintiffs for the benefit of
plaintiff No. 2. The plaint does not disclose the name of
the person or persons	who paid the sale price of the suit
house. The suit is based on the patta standing in the names
of the	 plaintiffs. In the	 written statement of	 the
defendant, there was an allegation to the effect that even
though	the patta was standing in	 the names of	 the
plaintiffs, they were only benamidars and the real title was
with Bharat Singh and the defendant. The particulars of the
circumstances which compelled Bharat Singh or the defendant
to take	 the patta in the names of the plaintiffs were not
disclosed although it was stated that it had been done owing
to some	 political and	other surrounding circumstances and
for the safety of the property. From the evidence led by the
parties, we are satisfied that they knew during the trial of
the suit that the question whether the transfer effected
under the patta was a benami	transaction or not arose for
consideration in the case. Even in the appeal before the
High Court, the main	question on which arguments	were
addressed was	 whether the	transaction was a benami
transaction or	not. Merely because the plaintiffs attempted
to prove in the trial court	 that the money paid	 for
purchasing the house came out of their funds, they cannot in
the circumstances of this case be prevented from claiming
title to the property	on the basis that even though Bharat
Singh had paid the consideration therefor, plaintiff No. 2
alone was entitled to the suit house. Reference may be made
here to	 the decision of this	Court in Bhagwati Prasad v.
Shri Chandramaul (1) where the Court observed as follows:- After holding that the parties to the said case were
not taken by surprise,	 the Court granted the relief prayed
for by	the plaintiff on the basis that defendant was a
licensee even though the plaintiff had pleaded in his plaint
that the defendant was tenant. In the above case , the Court
distinguished the decision in Trojan & Co. Ltd. v. RM. N. N.
Haggappa Chettiar (1) on which	much reliance was placed by
the learned counsel for the defendant before us. In the case
of Trojan & Co. Ltd. (supra), this	Court came to	 the
conclusion that	 the alternative claim on which relief was
sought was not at all within the knowledge of the parties in
the course of the trial. The	case before us is not of the
nature. In Ismail	 Mussajee Mookerdum v. Hafiz	 Boo (2)	 the
plaintiff laid	 claim	 to a	 property which had	been
transferred in	her name by her mother alleging that she had
paid the purchase money to her mother. The court came to the
conclusion that	 she had failed to prove that she had paid
the consideration. Still a decree was	 made in her favour
holding that she had become the owner of the property by
virtue	of the transfer in	 her favour even though
consideration had not been 637 paid by	 her since it had been established in the case that
her mother intended to	 transfer the beneficial interest in
the property in her favour. This is borne out from	 the
following passage at page 95: Moreover no plea was raised on behalf of the defendant
before the High Court in this case contending that the High
Court should not go into the question whether the transfer
under the patta was a benami transaction or not.	 We,
therefore, reject the	 above	contention and	 proceed to
examine whether	 the High Court was right in arriving at the
conclusion that	 the plaintiffs were only benamidars holding
the property for the benefit of its real owner, Bharat Singh
as the consideration therefor had emanated from him. Under the	English law, when real or personal property
is purchased in the name of a stranger, a resulting trust
will be	 presumed in favour of	 the person who is proved to
have paid the	purchase money	 in the character of	 the
purchaser. It is, however, open to the transferee to rebut
that presumption by showing that the intention of the person
who contributed	 the purchase money was that the transferee
should	himself	 acquire the beneficial interest in	 the
property. There	 is, however, an exception to the above rule
of presumption	made by	 the English law when the person who
gets the legal title under the conveyance is either a child
or the wife of the person who contributes the purchase money
or his	 grand	 child,	 whose	father	is dead. The	rule
applicable in such cases is	known as the	doctrine of
advancement which requires the	 court to presume that	 the
purchase is for the benefit of the person in whose favour
the legal title is transferred even though the purchase
money may have been contributed by the father or the husband
or the	 grandfather, as the	case may be,	unless	such
presumption is	rebutted by evidence showing that it was the
intention of the person who paid the purchase money that the
transferee should not become the real owner of the property
in question. The doctrine of advancement is not in vogue in
India. The counterpart	 of the English law	of resulting trust referred to above is the Indian law of benami transactions.
Two kinds of benami transactions are generally recognized in
India. Where a person buys a property with his own money but
in the	name of	 another person	 without any intention to
benefit such other person, the transaction is called benami.
In that	 case, the transferee holds the property for	 the
benefit of the person	who has contributed the purchase
money, and he is the real owner. The second case which is
loosely termed	as a benami transaction is a	case where a
person	who is the owner of the property	 executes a
conveyance in favour of another without the intention of
transferring the title to the property thereunder. In this
case, the transferor continues	 to be	the real owner. The
difference between the two kinds of	benami	transactions referred to above lies	 in the	 fact that whereas in	 the
former	case, there is an operative	 transfer from	 the
transfer to the transferee though the transferee holds the
property for the benefit of the person who has contributed
the purchase money, in the	latter	case, there is no
operative transfer at all and the title rests with	 the
transferor notwithstanding the execution of the conveyance.
One common feature, however, in both these cases is that the
real title is divorced	 from the ostensible title and they
are vested in different persons. The	question whether a
transaction is	a benami transaction or not mainly depends
upon the intention of	the person who has contributed the
purchase money	in the former case and upon the intention of
the person who has executed the conveyance in the latter
case. The principle underlying	 the former case is	also
statutorily recognized	in section 82 of the Indian Trusts
Act, 1882 which provides that where property is transferred
to one	person for a consideration paid or	provided by
another person and it appears that such other person did not
intend to pay or provide such consideration for the benefit
of the transferee, the transferee must hold the property for
the benefit of the	 person	 paying	 or providing	 the
consideration. This view is in accord	 with the following
observations made by this Court in Meenakshi Mills. Madurai
v. The Commissioner of Income-Tax, Madras (1):- In Mohammad Sadiq Ali Khan v. Fakhr Jahan Begum &
Ors.(1)	 the facts were these: A Mahemmodan bought an
immovable property taking the conveyance in the name of his
daughter who was five years of age. The income was credited
to a separate account,	 but it was in part	 applied to
purposes with which she had no concern. Upon her marriage,
the deed was sent for the inspection of her father-in-law.
After the death of the donor	it was	contended that	 the
property was part of his estate, the purchase being benami.
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council held that there
was a valid gift to the daughter because there was proof of
a bona	fide intention	to give, and	that intention	 was
established. In	 the course of the above decision, it was
observed thus:- In Manmohan Dass & Ors. v. Mr. Ramdei & Anr. (1) Lord
Macmillian speaking for the Judicial Committee observed: The principle governing	 the determination of	 the
question whether a transfer is a benami transaction or not
may be	summed up thus: (1) The burden of showing that a
transfer is a benami transaction lies	 on the	 person	 who
asserts that it is such a transaction; (2) if it is proved
that the purchase money came from a person other than the
person in whose favour	 the property is transferred,	 the
purchase is prima facie assumed to be for the benefit of the
person who supplied the purchase money, unless there is
evidence to the contrary; (3) the true character of	 the
transaction is	governed by the intention of the person who
has contributed	 the purchase money and (4) the question as
to what	 his intention was has to be decided on the basis of
the surrounding circumstances, the relationship of	 the
parties, the motives governing	 their	action	in bringing
about the transaction and their subsequent conduct etc.
 Now we shall refer to the facts of the present case.
When the suit house was purchased from the	Maharaja of
Bikaner, Bharat	 Singh was a bachelor	and he did not marry
till his death in the year 1955. The wife of Bhim Singh had
died before 1939 leaving behind her two young children.
Plaintiff No. 2 was about eight years old in the year 1939
and his younger brother Dalip Singh was about two years old.
These two children were living with	Bharat	Singh.	Bhim
Singh, plaintiff No. 1 was almost in indigent condition. The
defendant had by then acquired a degree in law and also had
practised as a lawyer	for some time. It is stated that the
defendant had again been employed in	the service of	 the
State of Bikaner. The	patta was issued in the names of
plaintiffs 1 and 2 at the request of	 Bharat Singh.	Even
though the defendant stated in the written statement that
the patta had been taken in the names of the plaintiffs
owing to certain political	circumstances,	he had	 not
disclosed in the course of his evidence those circumstances
which compelled	 Bharat Singh to secure the patta in	 the
names of the plaintiffs, though at one stage, he stated that
it was	under his advice that Bharat Singh got the patta in
the names of the plaintiffs. Bharat 642 Singh had no motive to suppress from the knowledge of the
public that he had acquired the property. It was suggested
in the	course of the arguments that he had taken the patta
in the names of the plaintiffs because he was in the service
of the	 State.	 We do	 not find any	 substance in	this
submission because the property was being purchased from the
State Government itself and there was	 no need for him to
shield his title from the knowledge of the State Government.
It appears that Bharat Singh acquired the suit house for the
benefit of plaintiff No. 2 for the following circumstances: 2 from	the suit house during the twelve days following the
death of Bharat Singh	when the keys	 of Bharat Singh's
residence had been handed over to plaintiff No. 2 by the
defendant. It is difficult to believe the above statement of
the defendant because of two	circumstances-(i) that	 the
defendant did not state in the written statement that the
patta had been stolen	by plaintiff No. 2 and (ii)	that
within a month or two after the death of Bharat Singh,
plaintiff No. 2 wrote a letter which is marked as Exhibit A-
124 to	the defendant stating that the rumour which	 the
defendant was spreading that plaintiff No. 2 had stolen some
articles from the suit	 house was not true since whenever
plaintiff No. 2 opened room or any of the almirahs of Bharat
Singh in the suit house, Devi Singh the son of the defendant
was keeping watch over him. That letter has been produced by
the defendant and there is no	 reference in it to a false
rumour	being spread about the theft of the patta by
plaintiff No. 2. Plaintiff No. 2 however, while asserting
his claim to the suit house in the course of that letter
stated that he had seen that the patta had been executed in
his favour; and that the patta contained his name.	 The
defendant does	not appear to have sent any reply to Exhibit
A. 124	nor did	 he call upon the plaintiffs to return the
patta to him. He did not also file a complaint stating that
the patta had been stolen by plaintiff No. 2. We are of the
view that there is no reason to disbelieve the evidence of
plaintiff No. 2 that the patta had been handed over to him
by Bharat Singh on his passing the B.Sc. examination. This
conduct	 of Bharat Singh establishes that	it was	 the
intention of Bharat Singh when he secured the patta from the
State Government in	the names of	the plaintiffs	 the
plaintiff No. 2 whom he loved should become the owner. It is
no doubt true that the name of plaintiff No. 1 is	also
included in the patta. It may have been so included by way 643 of abundant caution as plaintiff No. 2 was a minor when the
patta was issued. The	above circumstance is similar to the
one which persuaded their Lordships of the Privy Council in
the case of Mohammad Sadiq Ali Khan (supra) to hold that the
property involved in that case belonged to the person in
whose favour the conveyance had been executed. The second	 circumstance which supports the view that
Bharat Singh intended that plaintiff No. 2 should become the
owner of the suit house is proved by the declarations made
by Bharat Singh regarding the title to the	suit house.
Jaswant Singh (P.W. 2)	 was a	former Prime Minister of the
State of Bikaner. His wife was a cousin of plaintiff No. 1,
Bharat Singh and the defendant. Being	 a close relative of
Bharat Singh who was also the Aid-de-Camp of the Maharaja of
Bikaner, he was quite intimate with Bharat Singh who used to
discuss with him about	 his personal affairs. P.W. 2	 has
stated in the course of his evidence	 that Bharat Singh
thought it proper to purchase the house in the name of
plaintiff No. 2 and that he intended to make plaintiff No. 2
his heir and successor. He has also stated that Bharat Singh
had expressed his desire to	give all his	property to
plaintiff No. 2 by a will and that he had told Kesri Singh
(P.W. 3) just a day prior to his (Bharat Singh's) death that
a will	was to	be executed. This statement of Jaswant Singh
(PW. 2) is corroborated by the evidence of Kesri Singh (P.W. 3) whose wife was also a cousin of Bharat Singh, plaintiff
No. 1 and the	 defendant. The relevant portion of	 the
deposition of Kesri Singh (P.W. 3) reads thus: There is no reason to disbelieve the evidence of these
two witnesses.	 Their	 evidence is corroborated by	 the
deposition of	Dr. Himmat Singh (D.W. 6) who was	 the
Secretary of a Club in Bikaner 644 of which Bharat Singh	was a member. He was examined by the
defendant himself as his witness. In	the course of	 his
cross-examination, Dr.	Himmat Singh (D.W. 6)	referred to
what Bharat Singh had	told him a few	 months prior to his
death. The substance of his deposition is found in	 the
judgment of the trial	court, the relevant portion of which
reads thus: It was argued on behalf of the defendant that there is
some variation	between the deposition of Dr. Himmat Singh
(D.W. 6) and the above passage found in the judgment of the
trial court and that the evidence of D.W. 6 should not be
believed as he had turned hostile. The deposition of Dr. Himmat Singh (D.W. 6) was read
out to	us. It	was also brought to our notice that an
application had	 been made by the defendant to treat D.W. 6
as hostile and that it had not been	granted by the trial
court. Even though there is a slight variation between what
is stated by D.W. 6 and what is contained in the judgment of
the trial court with regard to certain details, we do not
feel that the said variation is of any substantial nature.
The evidence of D.W. 6 suggests that Bharat Singh was of the
view even during his life time that the suit house belonged
to plaintiffs and not to himself. Even though an application
had been made by the defendant to treat D.W. 6 as hostile,
we feel	 that this part of the evidence of D.W. 6 cannot be
rejected on that ground since it is consistent with	 the
evidence of Jaswant Singh (P.W. 2) and Kesri Singh (P.W. 3). It is seen from the judgment of the High Court that the
effect of the statement of Kesri Singh (P.W.3) in	 his
deposition that Bharat Singh 645 had told him that the	 suit house was the	property of
plaintiff No. 2 has not been	considered. The	 High Court
while dealing with the	 evidence of Jaswant Singh (P.W. 2)
and Kesri Singh (P.W.	3) laid more emphasis on those parts
of their evidence where there was a reference to the alleged
utilisation of	 the jewels or moneys belonging to	 the
plaintiffs by Bharat Singh for the purpose of acquiring the
suit house. The High Court has also observed in the course
of its	judgment that neither of them had stated that Bharat
Singh had told them that he was purchasing or had purchased
the suit house as a gift to Bhim Singh and Himmat Singh. The
above observation does not appear to be consistent with the
evidence of Kesri Singh (P.W. 3) discussed above. It was, however, contended on behalf of the defendant
that the statement made by Bharat Singh in the year 1955
could not be accepted as evidence in proof of the nature of
the transaction	 which had taken place in the year 1940. It
was contended that the question whether a transaction was of
a benami nature or not should	 be decided on the basis of
evidence about	facts which had taken place at or about the
time of	 the transaction and not by statements made several
years after the date of the transaction. In support of the
above contention, the learned	counsel	 for the defendant
relied on the decision	 of the House of Lords in Shephard &
Anr. v.	 Cartwright & Anr.(1). The facts of that case were
these: In 1929, a father, with an	associate, promoted
several private	 companies and	caused a large part of the
shares, for which he subscribed, to be allotted in varying
proportions to his three children, one of them being then an
infant. There was no evidence as to the circumstances in
which the allotments	 were	made. The companies	were
successful and in 1934 the father and his associate promoted
a public company which	 acquired the	shares	of all	 the
companies. The	children signed	 the requisite	documents at
the request of their father without understanding what they
were doing. He received a cash consideration and at various
times sold, and received the proceeds	 of sale of, their
shares in the new company. He	 subsequently placed to the
credit of the children	 respectively in separate deposit
accounts the exact amount of the cash consideration for the
old shares and	 round	sums in each	case equivalent to
proceeds of sale of the new shares. Later he obtained the
children's signatures to documents, of the contents of which
they were ignorant, authorising him to withdraw money from
these accounts	and without their knowledge he drew on the
accounts, which	 were by the end of 1936 exhausted, part of
the sums withdrawn being dealt with for the benefit of the
children but a large part remaining unaccounted for. He died
in 646 1949. In the action filed against his executors, it	 was
contended by them that the subsequent conduct of the father
showed that when the shares were got allotted by him in the
names of the children	in 1929, he did not intend to make
them the real owners of the shares and that the presumption
of advancement had been rebutted. This contention was met by
the plea that the subsequent	conduct	 of the father in
dealing with the shares as if they were his own could not be
relied upon either in	his favour or	 in favour of	 his
representatives, executors and administrators to prove that
he had no intention to create any beneficial interest in his
children in the shares in question when they were obtained.
On these facts, the House of Lords held that the subsequent
acts and declarations of the father could not be relied upon
in his	favour or in favour of his executors to rebut the
presumption of	advancement. Viscount Simonds in the course
of his judgment observed thus: The above	passage, we are of the view, does not really
assist the defendant in this case. What was	held by	 the
House of Lords in the case of Shephard & Anr. (supra) was
that the presumption of advancement could be displaced only
by a statement or conduct anterior to or contemporaneous to
the purchase nor could	 any conduct of the children operate
against them as admissions against their interest as they
acted without the knowledge of the facts. In	 the instant
case, we are concerned with the conduct and declarations of
Bharat	Singh subsequent to the transaction	 which	were
against his interest. The evidence regarding	such conduct
and declarations is not being used in his favour but against
the legal representative of Bharat Singh i.e. the defendant
who would have become entitled to claim a share in the suit
house if it had formed part of his estate. Such conduct or
declaration would be admissible even according to the above
decision of the House of Lords in which the statement of law
in Snell's Equity to the effect `but subsequent declarations
are admissible	as evidence only against the party who made
them, and not in his favour'	is quoted with approval. The
declarations made by Bharat Singh would be admissible as
admissions under the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act being statements made by him against his	 proprietary
interest under section 21 and section	 32(3) of the Indian
Evidence Act
 The defendant cannot also	 derive any assistance from
the decision of this Court in Bibi Saddiqa Fatima v. Saiyed
Mohammad Mahmood Hasan (1). The question before the Court in
the case of Bibi Siddiqa Fatima (supra) was whether a
property which had been purchased by a husband in his wife's
name out of the fund belonging to a waqf of which he was a
Mutawalli could	 be claimed by the wife as her own property.
This Court held that the wife who was the ostensible owner
could not be treated as a real owner having regard to the
fact that the	purchase money	 had come out	 of a	fund
belonging to a waqf over which her husband who was	 the
Mutawalli had no uncontrolled	 or absolute interest. In
reaching the above conclusion, this Court observed thus : It was next contended that the defendant had spent
money on the repairs and reconstruction of the building
subsequent to the date	 of the patta and that therefore, he
must be	 held to have acquired some interest in it. We have
gone through the evidence bearing on the above question. We
are satisfied that the defendant has not established that he
had spent any money at all for construction	and repairs.
Even if	 he has	 spent some money in	that way with	 the
knowledge of the actual state of affairs, it would not in
law confer on the defendant any proprietary interest in the
property. It is also significant that neither Gad Singh during
his life time nor his children after his death have laid any
claim to a share in the suit house which they were entitled
to claim alongwith the defendant if it was in fact a part of
the estate of Bharat Singh. Their conduct also probabilities
the case of the plaintiffs that Bharat Singh did not intend
to retain for himself any interest in the suit house. On the material placed before us, we are satisfied that
the transaction under which the patta was obtained was not a
benami transaction and that Bharat Singh had acquired the
suit house with his money with the intention of constituting
plaintiff No. 2 as the absolute owner thereof. Plaintiff No.
2 is, therefore, entitled to a decree for possession of the
suit house. The trial court passed a decree directing the defendant
to pay damages for use and occupation in respect of the suit
house at the rate of Rs. 50/- per month from September 20,
1956 till the 649 possession of the house was delivered to the plaintiffs. The
operation of the decree of the trial court was stayed by the
High Court during the	pendency of the appeal before it. In
view of	 the decree passed by the High Court, the defendant
has continued to be in possession of the suit house till
now. Nearly twenty years have elapsed from the date of the
institution of the suit. In the circumstances, we are of the
view that the defendant should be directed to pay mesne
profits at the rate of Rs. 50/- per	month till today and
that an	 enquiry should	 be made by the trial court under Order 20, Rule	 12 of	 the Code of	Civil Procedure to
determine the	 mesne	profits	 payable by the defendant
hereafter till the date of delivery of possession. In the result, the decree passed by the High Court is
set aside and a decree is passed directing the defendant to
deliver possession of the suit house to plaintiff No. 2 and
to pay	mesne profits to him at the rate of	Rs. 50/- per
month from September 20, 1956 till today and	 also to pay
future mesne profits as per decree to be passed by the trial
court under Order 20, Rule	12 of	the Code of Civil
Procedure . For the foregoing reasons, Civil Appeal No. 626 of 1971
is accordingly	allowed with costs throughout. Civil Appeal
No. 629 of 1971 is dismissed but without costs. C.A. 626/71 allowed.