1. 1. This original application is registered suo motu on the basis of the news

 item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in Chhattisgarh's Bemetara

 factory blast" appearing in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024. 2. The news item relates to a blast that occurred at an explosive

 manufacturing factory, in Borsi village in Bemetara district of

 Chhattisgarh, resulting in the death of one worker and injury caused to

 six others. As per the article, one section of the factory, engaged in the

 production of liquid explosives, was reduced to a pile of rubble in the

 blast. The sound of the blast reportedly was heard even from the far

 distance about 10 to 20 km. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 3. The news item alleges that the factory, established some 25 years ago,

 consists of three units and is spread over 40 acres. Each individual unit

 is built over an area measuring approx. 50,000 sq feet each. Prima facie

 cause of the explosion was reportedly due to leakage in one of the tanks

 (15,000-liter capacity) filled with explosive liquid. A nearby fire 2 source

 triggered the major explosion in one of the units. Factory workers

 reportedly claimed that the number of actual casualties would be more

 than the official figure. 4. The news item does not disclose if any compensation has been paid to the

 family members of the deceased workers or to the injured. 5. The matter was taken up by this Tribunal and the notices were issued to

 the respondents to submit the reply. In response to the above reply, the

 Ministry of Environment Forest & Climate Change has filed reply with the

 facts that the MoEF&CC has issued and notified guidelines named

 Manufacture, Storage And Import Of Hazardous Chemical Rules 1989 as

 a regulatory mechanism aimed at putting in place an operational safety,

 frame work in industries dealing with hazardous chemicals and avoiding

 chemical accidents. Vide notification dated 01.08.1996 the Ministry has

 also notified the Chemical Accident Emergency Planning Preparedness

 and Response Rules 1996. Under the Factories Act, 1948 the Petroleum

 and Explosive Safety of Organisation has also made the nodal agency to

 approve and notify the sites and pipelines and in view of the guidelines

 issued by this Tribunal the integrated guidance, frame work for chemical

 safety in respect of isolated storage and industries covered under MSIHC

 Rules 1989 has also been notified. For payment of simple compensation 2 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 on the basis of absolute/no fault liability the rules named Public Liability

 Insurance Act, 1991 has been notified for payment of simple

 compensation and later on Public Liability Insurance Rule, 1991 was also

 notified. 6. Respondent no. 1/Chhattisgarh Environment Conservation Board has

 filed the reply with the following facts : O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 11. The Central Pollution Control Board ( C.P.C .B.) had directed the

 Chhattisgarh Environmental conservation Board (GECB) to

 investigate the matter and furnish an Action Taken Report. 12. This Tribunal in O.A. NO. 60/2021 vide order dated 11.06.2021

 suggested following measures : 14. While considering the report and reply submitted by the State PCB we

 note that substantial amount of compensation as assessed to the tune

 of Rs. 35 lakhs to each of the deceased have been paid to the victims. The State PCB and CPC B with the assistance of the state machinery

 may plan and focus on developing relevant infrastructure to prevent

 such accidents and provide relief in case such untoward incident

 happens. 15. Some measures have already been given in Integrated Guidance

 Framework for Chemicals Safety in Respect of the Isolated Storages

 and Industries Covered Under Manufacture, Storage and Import of

 Hazardous Chemicals (MSIHC) Rules, 1989. Which is extracted below: O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 2. Where a major accident occurs on a site or in a pipe line, the
 occupier shall within 48 hours notify the concerned authority as
 identified in Schedule 5 (of the Manufacture, Storage and Import of
 Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 as amended) of that accident,
 and furnish thereafter to the concerned authority a report relating
 to the accidents in Schedule 6 (of the Manufacture, Storage and
 Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (as amended)).
 However, the concerned authorities, local crisis group, District
 emergency authorities etc. have to be informed by the occupier as
 early as possible. 3. The occupier shall not undertake any industrial activity or isolated
 storage unless he has been granted an approval for undertaking
 such an activity by the concerned authorities and has submitted a
 written report to the concerned authority containing the
 particulars specified in Schedule 7 of the Manufacture, Storage
 and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 as amended. In
 case of an activity in which subsequently there is or is liable to be
 a threshold quantity or more of an additional hazardous chemical
 shall be deemed to be a different activity and the occupier has to
 take a separate approval for undertaking such activity. 4. The occupier shall furnish a further report to the concerned
 authorities, in case the changes to the threshold quantity of
 hazardous chemicals are made. 5. An occupier shall not undertake any industrial activity or isolated
 storage to which the Manufacture, Storage and Import of
 Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (as amended) applies, unless he
 has prepared a safety report on that industrial activity containing
 the information specified in Schedule 8 of the Manufacture,
 Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (as
 amended) and has sent a copy of that report to the concerned
 authority at least ninety days before commencing that activity. 6. The occupier of both the new and the existing industrial activities
 or isolated storage shall carry out an independent safety audit of
 the respective industrial activities with the help of an expert, not
 associated with such industrial activities. The occupier shall
 forward a copy of the auditor's report along with his comments to 10 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 the concerned authorities within 30 days after the completion of
 such audit. 7. The occupier shall update the safety audit report once a year by
 conducting a fresh safety audit and forward a copy of it with his
 comments to the concerned authorities. 8. The occupier, within 30 days of the completion of the safety audit,
 shall send a report to the Chief Inspector of Factories with respect
 to the implementation of the audit recommendations. 9. The occupier shall not make any modification to the industrial
 activity or isolated storage to which that safety report relates which
 could materially affect the particulars in that report, unless he has
 made a further report to take account of those modifications and
 has sent a copy of that report to the concerned authorities at least
 90 days before making those modifications. 10. Where an occupier has made a safety report and that industrial
 activity or isolated storage is continuing, the occupier shall within
 three years of the date of the last such report, make a further
 report which shall have regard in particular to new technical
 knowledge which has affected the particulars in the previous report
 relating to safety and hazard assessment and shall within 30 days
 send a copy of the report to the concerned authority. 11. For the purpose of enabling the concerned authority to prepare
 the off-site emergency plan, the occupier shall provide the
 concerned authority with such information relating to the
 industrial activity or isolated storage under his control as the
 concerned authority may require, including the nature, extent and
 likely effects off-site of possible major accidents. 12. The occupier of an industry or isolated storage shall take
 appropriate steps to inform persons outside the site either directly
 or through District Emergency Authority who are likely to be in an
 area which may be affected by a major accident about the nature of
 the major accident hazard and the safety measures and the "Do's'
 and 'Don'ts'' which should be adopted in the event of a major
 accident. The occupier of a new industry or isolated storage shall
 take these steps, before that activity is commenced. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 13. The industries / isolated storages shall update the
 comprehensive safety audit, on-site emergency plans and risk
 analysis reports annually and ensure that the reports are
 furnished to the concerned authorities. 14. The industry or isolated storage shall conduct comprehensive
 hazard identification and risk assessment (HIRA) to identify the
 non-compliances and take corrective actions for the non-
 compliances identified. Emergency plans shall be established to
 deal with leakages / accidents. The safety & hazard audit should
 identify the control measures necessary to be taken during an
 emergency. 15. A detailed study on the risk assessment and disaster
 management shall be carried out by the industry / isolated
 storage. Hazard identification and evaluation in a local community,
 preparation of standard operating procedures for accident
 prevention, preparedness and response, onsite emergency plans
 etc. have to be reviewed at least once in a year. 16. In the industries / isolated storages where gas leakages are
 suspected, an emergency plan to vent out / neutralize the gases
 safely should be prepared 17. All industries and isolated storages should have mitigation
 plans for spillages / leakages of hazardous chemicals, fires,
 explosion or any other accident. 18. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the steps to be taken
 during emergency situations / accidents shall be prepared by all
 industrial activities / isolated storages that are handling
 hazardous chemicals. TESTING 19. The pressure test and leak test must be ensured after
 replacement of valves, pipes, joints etc. as per the original
 equipment manufacturer (OEM) manual or as per standard
 established procedure. 20. Check valves, relief valves should be installed at appropriate
 locations. Flow meters, sensors, measuring devices have to be 12 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 regularly calibrated. Vents from relief valves shall be directed to a
 safe place. 21. Seals, glands and gaskets shall be regularly inspected, without
 dismantling. Leak detectors should be provided for all piping,
 valves, seals, flanges, and other pertinent equipment. 22. All hazardous chemicals carrying piping should be periodically
 inspected for failed insulation/ vapour barrier, rust and corrosion.
 Damaged and deteriorated piping / equipment should be replaced. 23. Operation and process control systems like Supervisory Control
 and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Leak Detection and Repair
 (LDAR) systems should be adopted by the major accident hazard
 installations. 24. The safety measures including valve regulated systems shall be
 regularly checked and the concerned workers involved in the
 activity shall be properly trained. 25. Periodic inspection of equipment and machineries w.r.t. safety
 aspects should be done. 26. Portable gas masks should be kept at critical locations for use
 in any emergency. 27. Material Safety Data Sheets of raw materials & products should
 be made available to all the concerned personnel. 28. The design of storage tanks, pressure vessels etc. should be as
 per applicable standards. The material of the storage tanks,
 pressure vessels etc. should be of adequate strength and
 chemically inert for the chemicals to be stored. The inspection of
 storage tanks, pressure vessels etc. should be as per standard
 protocols. 29. All the vessels should be examined periodically by a competent
 person under the Factory Act / applicable extant laws. 30. Blanketing of tanks for fire protection of volatile / flammable
 chemicals should be considered. 31. Free Fall of any flammable material in the vessel has to be
 avoided. All solvents and flammable material storage tanks should
 be at a safe distance from the Process plant and required quantity
 of material should be charged in reactor through appropriate safe
 mode. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 32. Earth connection should be provided to all solvent handling
 equipment, pipelines, reactors, vessels etc. for protection from
 electric current/ static electricity. 33. Separate safety manual should be prepared for each equipment
 along with the emergency management plan. 34. Periodic testing of firefighting equipment should be conducted.
 DUTIES 35. Mock drills must be conducted regularly at every six months by
 the industries / isolated storages in controlled environment on
 actions to be taken during accidents, gas leakage, failure of critical
 process parameters etc. 36. It shall be ensured that the chemical storage tanks should be
 appropriately located so that adequate space to take action during
 emergency situation is available. 37. A clear documented emergency procedure should be laid down
 which details the precise duties of all staff and arrangements for
 evacuation, rescue, first aid etc. during an emergency. 38. All pipework containing hazardous chemicals shall be identified
 by colour coding or labelling (as per standards notified by Bureau
 of Indian Standards) and shall be protected to prevent corrosion /
 damage. The practice to identify the parts of the system that
 contain gas or liquid and the direction of flow should be followed. 39. The industry or isolated storage shall install sensors with alarm
 system for detecting leakage of hazardous chemicals. Emergency
 ventilation, electricity tripping system to stop the process,
 sprinkling system to contain the leaked hazardous chemicals /
 gases etc. may be interlinked with the sensors for taking a prompt
 action in case of leakage / emergency. 40. Suitable gas sensors and alarm system should be installed in
 the industrial unit / isolated storages at appropriate locations
 where emission of gas is suspected so that any leaked gas is
 detected and the employees are immediately alerted. In sensitive
 areas of the unit where gas leakages are suspected, the unit shall
 work out an emergency prepared plan to neutralize / vent out the
 gases safely. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 41. The industries / isolated storages should install automatic
 alarming system to alert its personnel as well as surrounding
 localities simultaneously in case of emergency situation and
 likelihood of emergency situation if any process parameter goes out
 of control. 42. There should be auto alarm system to alert the employees in
 case of any deviations noticed in process parameter that may
 cause emergency. 43. Only fully trained and qualified operators shall be permitted to
 operate the industrial processes involving hazardous chemicals.
 Training to all employees on Standard Operating Procedures,
 production process, safety aspects etc. should be provided.
 Refresher trainings should be conducted at least every year
 regarding safety and emergency preparedness aspects associated
 with the industrial process / isolated storage. The employees shall
 be given hands on experience with the product process under the
 supervision of senior employees. The industries / isolated storages
 only after ensuring that adequate training is imparted to its
 employees should engage the employees for independent works 44. The industries and isolated storages should impart regular
 training to the staff to make them aware about process details,
 process functionalities. The employees should be trained to deal
 with emergencies arising out of leakage, abnormal temperature &
 pressure, increased emissions, pump failures, failure of air
 pollution control devices or effluent treatment plant, shock loads or
 any other accidents likely to occur. Overall the industries and
 isolated storages should be prepared for emergency response
 readiness & effectiveness in terms of major & minor accidents. 45. Any non-operational industry / isolated storage shall carry out
 proper risk study and safety audit before resuming the operations. 46. Hazard and operability study must be carried out strictly and
 regularly by the industries and isolated storages. The concerned
 personnel should be made aware of the hazard and safety aspects
 associated with the process and material handled by them. 47. The industry / isolated storage should procure chemicals from
 authorized dealers only. The spent solvents shall be procured from 15 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 only those industries / solvent recyclers that are authorized by
 respective State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs)/ Pollution
 Control Committees (PCCs). 48. The industry / isolated storage shall provide essential Personnel
 Protective Equipment (PPE) to all the concerned employees and
 make it mandatory that the employees have to wear PPE during
 working hours. 49. Occupational Health surveillance i.e., periodical health check-
 up of the employees should be conducted by the industries /
 isolated storage. 50. The industries / isolated storages have to ensure self-
 compliance regarding recruiting competent staff, imparting
 Industrial, Environmental and Safety training to the staff,
 conducting safety audit, onsite emergency plans with record
 maintenance and information to SPCBs/ PCCs/ concerned
 Authorities. 51. The distancing criteria for storage of hazardous chemicals have
 to be followed as per extant safety guidelines / rules. The
 chemicals should be stored as per compatibility and separate area
 for flammable, corrosive, explosive and toxic chemicals should be
 earmarked. 52. The labelling of hazardous chemical storing containers shall be
 as per extant rules. The concerned employees should be made
 aware of the risks associated with the stored hazardous chemicals
 and appropriate precautions that need to be taken. 53. To contain any spillage or leakage of hazardous chemicals or
 any uncontrolled reaction that may cause any emergency or
 accident, the industries / isolated storages should have sufficient
 stock of neutralizing chemicals, absorbents, reaction quenchers
 with proper equipment and trained manpower. 54. Emergency ambulance services should be arranged in the
 industrial zones along with experienced doctors and paramedic
 staff. 55. Safety in operation greatly depends on proper commissioning of
 an industry / isolated storage and hence utmost care should be 16 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 taken to monitor every aspect during erection and maintenance
 schedules or other areas which require proper planning. 56. The industries / isolated storages shall ensure that their
 premises should be constructed in accordance with the local
 government regulations. 57. A control room to deal with the emergencies should be
 commissioned by the industries / isolated storages. A quick
 response team of responsible officers should be constituted having
 duly assigned duties to be executed during emergencies. 58. The industry / isolated storage should conduct public
 awareness programmes in the surrounding localities about do's &
 don'ts during emergency situations on annual basis. 59. 'Mutual Aid Scheme' among industries to meet required
 response measures during chemical emergencies should be
 adopted. 60. Emergency contact numbers should be readily available at the
 isolated storages or industrial installations similar to 'Crisis Alert
 System' or Red Book. 61. Placing / indicating hazard signs at appropriate places in the
 isolated storage or industry or outside the shop floor (within the
 premises) should be done. 62. Increased automation that avoids physical handling of
 dangerous chemicals and substances should be brought into
 practice. 63. The industry / isolated storage should have proper firefighting
 arrangements in accordance with The Factories Act, 1948 /
 applicable extant laws. 64. All emergency valves and switches and emergency handling
 facilities should be easily accessible 65. Safety audit reports shall be made online for public. 66. To ensure safety during operation/ handling / storage of
 hazardous chemicals, the industries/ isolated storages wherever
 and as applicable, shall obtain requisite clearances from The Chief
 Inspector, Factories and Boilers / Department of explosives / Fire
 Department etc. without fail. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 67. The industries / isolated storages shall ensure that the effluent
 generated during any accident because of firefighting /
 decontamination activities etc. should be disposed in scientific
 manner after proper treatment. The hazardous wastes generated
 after any accident must be disposed in accordance with the extant
 rules. 68. Occupiers of storage installations like warehouses / tank farms
 are required to prepare an On-Site Emergency Plan and make
 available information regarding any possible off-site consequences
 to the District Collector to enable him to include the same in the
 Off Site Emergency Plan for the district or the particular area. 69. In order to avoid accidents, the following measures may be
 taken while establishing a warehouse/tank-farm. These should
 also be carried out in existing installations to enhance safety : 70. Wherever applicable, the industries or the isolated storages
 shall invariably comply with the Manufacture, Storage and Import
 of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (as amended), The Major
 Accident Hazard Control Rules, 1997, The Factories Act , any other
 applicable rules or guidelines issued by the respective Government
 of State / Union Territory, The Ministry of Labour & Employment,
 Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization, Oil Industry Safety
 Directorate etc.

 B. Guidelines on the On Site Emergency Plans (for industries
 and isolated storages): O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 3. The occupier shall prepare the emergency plan in the case of a
 new industrial activity or isolated storage, before that activity is
 commenced. 4. The occupier shall conduct a mock drill of the on-site
 emergency plan every six months and a detailed report of the
 mock drill conducted shall be made immediately available to the
 concerned authorities as and when demanded. 5. With every change or modification made in a factory, operation
 or process, the on-site emergency plan may have to be modified
 and updated to keep it meaningful and effective. An on-site
 emergency plan should contain the following key elements: O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 8. The concerned authorities shall ensure that any industry
 / isolated storage involved in the manufacturing, storage and
 import of hazardous chemicals shall comply with the stipulated
 provisions of The Manufacture, Storage and Import of
 Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (as amended). 9. The offsite emergency plans as well as the management of
 chemical accidents may be integrated with the district level
 disaster management plan. 10. Local administration / Directorate of Industrial Safety and
 Health, SPCBs/ PCCs should keep stringent surveillance to
 avoid accidents at industries / isolated storages and to prevent
 environment damage. 11. Periodic inspections including surprise inspections
 should be conducted by concerned authorities to assess the
 safety measures and documents maintained by the industry /
 isolated storage. If found not complying, necessary action shall
 be initiated against the industry / isolated storage. 12. Maintenance of buffer zone for all industries / isolated
 storages, stoppage of encroachments and policy of not allocating
 residential houses near to industries / isolated storages should
 be strictly followed by the concerned authorities of State /
 Union Territory / Central Government. 13. Risk assessment mapping of the industrial areas may be
 done w.r.t. gas leakages, fires, explosion etc. 14. Awareness of the public residing around the isolated
 storages, industrial areas or industrial accident prone regions to
 deal with emergency situations shall be done by the industries /
 isolated storages as well as the district administration. 15. Each industrial pocket shall have a Local Crisis Group
 which shall act as per the stipulations of The Chemical
 Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Response)
 Rules, 1996. 16. The District crisis group, State Crisis Group and the Central
 Crisis Group should act in accordance with The Chemical
 Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Response)
 Rules, 1996. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 17. Industries / isolated storages shall not be allowed to operate
 in a non industrial zone. The District administration shall
 ensure that there shall not be any unauthorized storage of
 hazardous chemicals. 18. Land use planning decisions by public authorities should be
 taken after considering all aspects related to safety viz. possible
 hazards / anticipated accidents at the hazardous installations,
 cumulative risk of various hazardous installations situated in
 vicinity, safe distance for the surrounding localities, buffer
 zones, applicability of rescue plans in the eventuality of
 accidents etc. 19. State Government should devise their own system in
 accordance with the basic provisions provided in The Major
 Accident Hazard Control Rules (under Factories Act, 1948 ). As
 per these rules the safety audit should be conducted by an
 independent accredited auditor, and every time a fresh audit
 should be carried out with a periodicity of one year. 20. Special courses should be designed for auditing the
 industries / isolated storages to build competence and
 capabilities in our country which includes hazard identification
 and risk assessment. 21. Comprehensive safety audit must be carried out by trained
 professionals and the corrective actions recommended by them
 should be implemented in a time bound manner. The
 comprehensive safety audit should include policy, procedure
 and practices to minimise the risk of exposure of people and
 environment to potentially hazardous chemicals. 22. The states and districts which are lagging behind in
 conducting the safety audits of the industries / isolated
 storages should be prioritised. 23. The gap between two consequent audits can be further
 minimized by taking the entire procedure online so that the
 recommendations enumerated during the audits are available
 for the next audit. In this way, if a new safety auditor will
 become well-versed with the points of previous audits. O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 24. A robust and updated online mapping system, portraying all
 the hazards happening in the country can prove to be an aide in
 conducting the safety audits. A GIS- based system can be
 developed mapping all the hazards occurring in the industries
 containing all the information about the incident, which can be
 harnessed to make proper evaluations. This information can
 also be shared by the administrative authorities so that a
 prompt action can be taken to minimize the damage caused by
 the accident. D. Guidelines on the Off Site Emergency Plans (for
 concerned Authorities): O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024 4. The concerned authority shall ensure that a rehearsal of the off-
 site emergency plan is conducted at least once in a calendar year. 5. All districts having major hazard installation should have an off-
 site emergency plan. 6. The off site emergency plan should be updated from time to
 time, especially when a new process is started or new units are
 established. 7. An off site emergency plan should have the following important
 components : State PCB and the units within the area of that district and ensure

 that all remedial measures have been adopted in terms of the 27 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024
 guidelines issued and noted above and to further we also direct the

 CPC B and MoEF&CC in coordination with the other concerned

 authorities to consider issuing appropriate guidelines for conducting

 safety audits and other remedial measures throughout the state to

 avoid any industrial accident so as to prevent such a incident and to

 save human life and health. The guidelines issued in the Public

 Liability Insurance Act, 1991 for providing the relief, the provisions

 contained must be strictly enforced by the Collector concerned. 18. A copy of the order be communicated through mail by the Member

 Secretary, State PCB to District Magistrate Bemetara, State of CG,

 Chief Secretary State of C.G. for necessary actions. With these observations the Original Application 162/2024 (CZ)n

 stands disposed of. Sheo Kumar Singh, JM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM
11th September 2024
O. A. No.162/2024(CZ)
K 28 O. A. No.162/2024(CZ) News Item titled "Explosion kills one injures six in
 Chhattisgarh's Bemetara factory blast" appearing
 in the Deccan Herald dated 25.05.2024