The cricket NFT platform Rario recently announced that it’ll be winding down its current operations by January 29th. “As we reflect on the events of the last six months- industry headwinds on account of new regulations in web 3.0, crash in the NFT sector coupled with management failures, we have not been able to live up to your expectations,” said the Dream Sports-backed company in a press release issued last night.

What service does Rario offer consumers, and how is it affected by the shutdown? Rario describes itself as a digital “collectible” cricket platform. Users can use their purchased Rario collectibles, like cricket players’ cards, to access online games hosted by the platform as well “once-in-a-lifetime” fan experiences. For example, the platform’s “D3” cricket strategy game co-developed with Dream Sports, allows users to create squads with these player cards—rewards while competing included official merchandise, VIP tickets to matches, meet and greets with players, and “real-money outcomes”.

The company has clarified that the first India-England test match in the upcoming series, scheduled to start on January 25th, will be the last game hosted on D3. “Please rest assured that your wallet cash balances are safe and available for you to withdraw until March 31st, 2024,” the press release added .

The company added that it would launch a new platform by March offering “new and engaging cricket games”. However, while current Rario cards will not be eligible for it, the “loyal Rario user” will be provided with “additional perks” on the platform, information on which will be shared by February 10th.

Tweeting on the development, cricket commentator and analyst Aakash Chopra requested the company to consider buying back the cards at least based on their base value. “ People invested in Rario trusting its backers…they’ll feel cheated if the cards are of no use whatsoever,” Chopra added.

Twitter user Sneha Kumar Reddy aired their grievances with the platform as well, claiming that “ Rario faced financial issues and started flooding the market with more cards than promised, diminishing demand and rendering the platform unsustainable. It is reported that they incurred losses exceeding 500 crores. Many individuals invested significant amounts of money in Rario, trusting the association with Sachin @sachin_rt [Sachin Tendulkar, the famous cricketer] and @Dream11 . Presently users find themselves scammed holding cards of zero value from various teams, as Rario has stopped covering these series on the D3 platform. The company has not provided any official statements since the CEOs stepped down in September 2023, causing fear and anxiety among existing users. The feeling of betrayal stems from Rario deviating from its initial promises.”

Here are Reddy’s full grievances:

Dream11 encouraged its users to invest in Rario, an NFT-based fantasy platform. Despite not gaining sufficient users initially, they sought credibility by involving celebrities such as Sachin Tendulkar @sachin_rt , Virender Sehwag @virendersehwag and Smriti Mandhana…

— SnEhA KuMaR ReDdY (@snehakumarreddy) January 10, 2024

Rario’s rocky history : In 2022, Rario raised $120 million in a Dream Sports-led funding round (Dream Sports is the parent company of the fantasy and online gaming major Dream11). In September 2023, Rario’s founders Ankit Wadhwa and Sunny Bhanot exited the company, reportedly due to Dream Sports exerting greater control over its operations. Sources speaking to Entrakr at the time claimed that “Rario’s investors have pushed co-founders to resign as the company ran out of money and was on the verge of bankruptcy…The company has burnt through the entire $120 million without a proper business model and array of regulatory challenges.”

Last April, the Delhi High Court also rejected Rario’s request for a permanent injunction against the Mobile Premier League (an online gaming company) and Striker (an online fantasy cricket platform) for “unlawfully” using player’s trade marks, and Indian cricketers’ attributes in their NFT gaming offerings. The Court found that any injunction would cause Striker’s business and users financial losses, and lead to its closure.

According to an Economic Times exclusive , this verdict muddied the waters between Rario’s founders and its backers. Sources claimed that “this is when Dream Sports started pulling back”, and that it also led to the cancellation of a $20-25 million Dream Sports-led Series-B funding round. “Things went downhill from April [of 2023],” another source told the Economic Times.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event