Hackers accessed upto 500 million customer records in Marriot Hotels’ Starwood reservation system in an attack which began four years ago, the hotel said last week .

. The exposed data included payment details and account information, among other things.

Marriott has reported the incident to law enforcement and has begun notifying regulatory bodies.

“ Marriott deeply regrets this incident happened. From the start, we moved quickly to contain the incident and conduct a thorough investigation with the assistance of leading security experts. Marriott is working hard to ensure our guests have answers to questions about their personal information with a dedicated website and call center,” the company said in a statement

Marriott first learned of the unauthorized breach on September 8, and the fact that the system was exposed since 2014. By November 19, Marriott was able to decrypt the information and determine that it was from the Starwood reservation database. Marriott’s Starwood brands include St. Regis, Le Meridien, and Westin Hotels, among others.

Attorneys have filed a lawsuit in a US federal court within hours of the breach notification, reported Reuters. The lawsuit seeks class-action status for affected customers. The lawsuit also accuses Marriott of negligence, deceptive and unfair trade practices, and seeks compensation for harm caused due to the exposure. The UK’s Information Commissioner has said it will investigate the attack.

Marriott’s Twitter account is flooded with customers asking about their own information.

@vincentius_e We understand your concern. We began sending emails on Nov 30, 2018 to affected guests. Due to the volume, you may not receive yours immediately.

— Marriott Internat’l (@MarriottIntl) December 2, 2018

Are you planning to email your rewards members? We’re more than 24 hours into these revelations and not everyone is going to come and hunt you down on social media. Why did you wait for me to reach out? https://t.co/NcBascXqy0

— Yasmine El-Sabawi (@yasmineelsabawi) December 1, 2018

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event