PER B. R. JAIN : AM

 This appeal by the assessee against the Order dated 20.1.2013

passed by the DCIT, Circle 9(1), New Delhi, raises the following

grounds:- 1 11(6), New Delhi ("Ld. TPO") and Deputy Commissioner of

 Income Tax, Circle - 9(1), New Delhi ("Ld. AO") erred in

 determining and the Hon'ble Dispute Resolution Panel

 ("Hon'ble DRP") erred in partly confirming the addition of Rs.

 11,351,925 to the total income of the Appellant on account of

 the difference in arm's length price of the international

 transactions provision of marketing support services by the

 Appellant to its associated enterprises ("AEs").

2 On facts and in law, the order under section 143(3) read with

section 144C of the Act passed by the Ld. AO is void-ab-initio and

infructuous and is liable to be quashed as the said order is in

violation of section 144C(10), (13), (5) of the Act, in so far, as it is

contradictory to and ignorant of the directions issued by the

Hon'ble DRP. 3 Without prejudice to Ground 2, on the facts and in law, the

order of the Ld. AO is erroneous to the extent of not incorporating

the binding directions of the Hon'ble DRP while finalizing the

order section 143(3) read with section 144C of the Act.

4 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP

erred in rejecting the Transfer Pricing ("TP") Documentation

maintained by the Appellant u/s 920 of the Income Tax Act, I961 2 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

("the Act"), read with Rule 100 of the Income Tax Rules, 1962

("the Rules") and in carrying out a fresh search for comparable

companies. 5 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the

Hon'ble DRP erred in selecting certain companies as comparable,

with a prejudiced intention of making an addition to the returned

income of the Appellant, without appreciating that in cognizance

of Rule 1OB(2), the functional, asset and risk profile of these

alleged comparable companies are dissimilar to that of the

Appellant. 6 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble

DRP erred in rejecting certain companies as comparable, with a

prejudiced intention of making an addition to the returned income

of the Appellant, without appreciating that in cognizance of Rule

lOB(2), the functional, asset and risk profile of these companies

are similar with that of the Appellant. 7 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the

Hon'ble DRP erred in not allowing a risk adjustment to the

Appellant, thereby contravening the Rule 1OB(1)(e)(iii).

8 On facts and in law the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble

DRP erred in using the data for the current year (i.e. financial year

2008-09) which was not contemporaneous and which was not 3 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

available in the public domain at the time of preparing the TP

documentation by the Appellant, thereby grossly misinterpreting

the requirement of 'contemporaneous' data in the Rules to

necessarily imply current year data, thereby breaching the

principles of natural justice and 'impossibility of performance'.

9 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, Ld. AO and Hon'ble DRP erred

in not granting the benefit of reduction/ variation of 5 percent

from the arithmetic mean while determining the arm's length

price to the Assessee as per the proviso to section 92C(2) of the

Act. 10 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO

erred in levying interest under section 234B of the Act.

11 Without prejudice to Ground 9, on the facts and in the

circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO erred in computing the

interest under section 234B of the Act at Rs. 3,160,505 instead of

Rs. 1,973,382. 12 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO

erred In initiating penalty proceedings under section

271 (1)(c) of the Act. The above 'Grounds of Appeals' are all independent and without

prejudice to one and another. 4 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

 The Appellant also craves leave to supplement, to cancel, amend,

 add and/ or otherwise alter or modify, any or all, grounds of the

 appeal stated hereinabove." 2. Briefly the facts stated are that the assessee has declared an

income of Rs. 1,80,34,681/- on 30.3.2010 from the business of

facilitating sale of architectural furniture and technology products

and also related services. The assessee was found to have

undertaken international transactions with its associated enterprises

of the amount of more than Rs. 15 crores. Accordingly, after taking

requisite sanction and in light of the provisions of section 92CA of

the I.T. Act, the transactions entered into by the assessee with

associated enterprises were referred to the Transfer Pricing Officer

(TPO) for determining the arm's length price. The TPO after

considering the material on record found that the assessee has

benchmarked its international transactions by using TMM as the

most appropriate method in the Transfer Pricing Report. The OP/OC

of the assessee is shown as Cost + 14%. Five comparables have

been selected by the assessee and their average margin for three

years shown at 13.58%. The economic analysis and documentation

relating to the international transactions reported were duly

examined and commented upon. The TPO found the Study

conducted by the tax payers to be defective in terms of section

92CA(3)(c) read with section 92CA and not reliable. As the arm's 5 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

length price (ALP) has not been determined correctly, he issued

show cause notice dated 28.12.2012, more so when the defects in

Transfer Pricing Study were not based on Rule 10B of the IT Rules,

1962. The said show cause notice has been incorporated at Para

5.4 onwards in the order dated 28.1.2013 made by the Transfer

Pricing Officer-II, (VI), New Delhi. The filters that were employed

by the assessee to arrive at the set of comparables were duly

discussed and remarks given for not accepting the reasoning of the

assessee. Going by functional analysis of services provided by the

assessee, it was inferred that the Indian entity is primarily

responsible for the business services / marketing activities in the

Indian territory. He, therefore, proposed to apply the appropriate

filters keeping in view the specific functions carried out by the

assessee and discussed the same in his order dated 28.1.2013. On

the functional analysis carried by him, he found that only one

comparable used by the assessee is an appropriate comparable.

The flaws were found even in the qualitative analysis carried by the

assessee. The TPO, therefore, on the fresh search carried by him

from the data base found certain comparables as reproduced in para

5 of the order, so as to use in the benchmarking process,

particularly, when such comparables chosen by the TPO were found

suitable, in light of the fact that all of such comparable had income

in excess of 75% of the total income from services sector and had 6 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

RPT below 25% of sales exceeding Rs. 1 crore. Accordingly, the

arm's length price of the international transactions related to the

provisions of the marketing support services was proposed to be re-

casted by taking the OP/TC at 27.13% in his show cause notice. The

comments of the assessee alongwith detailed reply dated 11.1.2013

were duly considered and discussed in the order. After having

detailed discussion and giving reasoning in choosing appropriate

comparables, as also by rejecting assessee's claim for allowing

working capital adjustments as well as risk adjustments etc. he

concluded that the final set of comparables to be used in the case of

the assessee are as under:- to the provisions of marketing support services stood computed by

taking the OP/TC at 25.50% resulted into an adjustment dated 7 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

1,13,51,925/- as the price charged by the assessee varied by more

than 5% from the value of international transactions. 3. The AO having regard to the TPO's Order u/s 92CA(3) of the

Act made addition of Rs. 1,13,51,925/- in his draft order passed u/s.

144C of the Act and sought objections from the assessee on the

variation so proposed in the draft assessment order.

3.1 The assessee filed objections to the draft assessment order on

12.4.2013 in Form No. 35A against the draft order dated 13.3.2013

requiring the Disputes Resolution Panel (DRP) to issue directions u/s.

144C (5) of the Act for the guidance of AO for enabling him to

complete assessment order. The Panel after carefully considering

the objections of the assessee came to the conclusion that in the

year under consideration though some of the defects as stated in

the order of the TPO may be curable, but by keeping the totality

comparable issue in mind, it affirmed that there were flaws in the

search process carried out by the assessee. Whereas on the other

hand, the TPO has correctly re-run all the search process. The DRP

therefore, upheld the action of the TPO, in light of the discussions

contained in its order. On the issue of rejection of comparables by

the TPO and selection of comparable based on fresh search, the DRP

carried out discussions on each of the comparables and issued

directions. All other issues raked up before it were also duly 8 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

considered and findings and directions were recorded thereon. In

view of such discussion and directions. The AO was required to

complete the assessment and assessee's objections stood disposed

of accordingly on 31.10.2013. 3.2 The AO computed assessable income at Rs. 2,93,86,610/- as

against the returned income of Rs. 1,80,34,681/- by making the

addition of Rs. 1,13,51,925/- and raised the tax demand

accordingly. 3.3 The assessee's Counsel Shri Manoj Paradasani contends that

the appellant has agitated entire addition of Rs. 1,13,51,925/- made

on the basis of nine comparables post DRP's directions. The

business descriptive of the assessee in fact is that the assessee is

engaged in provision for marketing support services to its group

companies. As part of its business the operations, the assessee is

engaged in marketing research activities including the market based

analysis, information of competitors, market characteristics,

demand drivers etc. and the functions alternate by the assessee

include :- ITA NO. 408/Del/2014 ii) Facilitating mapping of product specifications desired by the

customers vis-a-vis the product portfolio offered by

Steel case group. iii) Organizing of seminars and conferences whereby it provides

information on various product offerings and its benefits. 4. Being a routine service provider the assessee did not own

non-routine intangibles. Operating on a cost plus 14% basis, the

assessee is insulated form all the relevant risks except the foreign

currency risk in relation to its receivables. These mainly include

business risks such as market risk, product risk, credit risk,

manpower risk, legal and statutory risk, etc.

4.1 In support of ground no. 2 and 3 in appeal, it is contended

that DRP after considering the objections of the assessee found taht

Cyber Media (India) Online Ltd. is broadly comparable to the

assessee company. The Assessing Officer, however, did not

incorporate the aforesaid directions of the DRP in his order. Even

though the mandate of Section 144C(10) of the Act is that every

direction issued by the DRP is binding on the AO. The AO thus has

violated the provisions of section 144C(5) & (13) and has impact in

reduction of addition by an amount of Rs. 17,58,067/-.

4.2 In support of ground no. 5 in appeal, the assessee's counsel

contends that there has been a practice in making addition to the 10 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

returned income without appreciating the cognizance of Rule

10B(2) of the IT Rules, 1962 particularly when the functional, asset

and risk profile of these alleged comparable companies are

dissimilar to that of the appellant. I. Aptico Limited

 The first comparable of Aptico Ltd. is functional dissimilar to

the appellant as they were engaged in a diverse range of activities/

operations and services rendered by them cannot be compared with

those of the services rendered by the assessee. Even the segmental

profitability details of Aptico Limited not provided in Annual Report.

There is also no similarity in the off shore operations between the

two. The Appellate Tribunal, Delhi in the case of Actis Advisers Pvt.

Ltd. (ITA No. 6390/Del/2012) upheld the exclusion of Aptico Limited

as a comparable which was selected by the TPO akin to provision of

marketing support services. II. Orient Engineering & Commercial Company Limited has been

accepted as a comparable by the DRP. Even though this company

has significantly different FAR profile. This being risk bearing agent

cannot be compared with minimal risk service providers. Reliance

has been placed on the Appellate Tribunal, Delhi judgments in the

case of GAP International Sourcing (India) Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.

5147/Del/2011 and 228/Del/2012) and also on the judgment by 11 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore in the case of Logica Private Limited

IT(TP) A. No. 1129/Bang/2011. III. Killick Agencies & Marketing Limited which has been also

accepted, as DRP in its directions has in fact a company having

different FAR profile, as this company has a risk bearing agent

and risk bearing agent cannot be compared with minimal risk

services provider. As has been elucidated in the case of the

aforesaid comparables of Orient Engineering and Commercial

Company Limited. IV. Global Procurement Consultants Limited

 The DRP has also accepted the Global Procurement

Consultants Limited to be in the similar line of business as that of

the assessee. Even though there are functional dissimilarity as have

been stated in the descriptive form of the Chart laid before the

Appellate Tribunal, whereby broad categories of functions,

consulting services have been described. V. TSR Darashaw Limited

 The DRP has also accepted the TSR Darashaw Limited a

comparable by considering the activities such as business of pay

rolls, record management and register and transfer agents for its

clients and similar to the activities of the assessee-appellant and 12 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

direct the Assessing Authority to retain the said comparable in its

list. The assessee, however, has described each and every function

carry by their comparables in the chart laid before the Appellate

Tribunal to show functional dissimilarity to the assessee. VI. Techprocess Solutions Limited

 The similarity in reasoning have been advanced to show that

Techprocess Solutions Limited a comparable adopted by the TPO.

Even though it was functional dissimilar and that company had

substantial amount of computers software in its block of assets.

VII. Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited

 The DRP has rejected the comparables adopted by the

assessee without giving reasonable basis of RPT adopted at 47.62%

in the case of Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd. and at 34.47%.

VIII. M/s India Infoline Marketing Services Limited besides other

companies are also contained in chart and those excluded

wrongfully the appellant's computation. In addition to the

assessee's claim in ground no. 6 the assessee supported its claim of

risk adjustment taken in ground no. 7 in appeal by raising the key

arguments with reference to the risk adjustment and citing the

judicial precedents that were not considered by the authorities

below in the right perspective. It has therefore, been contended that 13 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

the order of the AO resulting into the addition of Rs. 1,13,51,925/-

needs to be held as void abnitio and infructuous and if the alternate

the comparables adopted by the TPO of their Study and confirmed

by the TPO need to be excluded from the adjustment and those

offered by the assessee alone need to be included so that the

Assessing Authority computes the income afresh accordingly.

4.3 On the other hand, Ld. Departmental Representative contends

that the order passed u/s. 143(3) read with Section 144C of the Act

passed by the Assessing Authority cannot be termed as void abnitio

nor the same can be held to be infructuous as it has been made in

accordance with law by requiring the Assessee to show cause as to

why the comparables chosen by the TPO be not adopted for making

adjustments and those included by the assessee be not excluded as

they were having functional dissimilarity with the nature of business

of the assessee were not as per Rule 10B(2) of the IT Rules, 1962.

The Appellate Tribunal shall also not correct the income /

adjustments made by the Assessing Authority merely because the

assessee is trying to put a new case before it and requires the

Tribunal to do all that exercise afresh which infact is within the

scope of powers of the Assessing Authority. In any event, if the

matter is to be sent back, the whole issue of examining the

assessee's claim be left upon the Assessing Authority so that each 14 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

and every issue raked up by the assessee is examined and decision

taken afresh in accordance with law. 5. We have heard parties with reference to material on record

and case laws brought to our notice. Admittedly, the Assessing

Authority has to follow the directions of the DRP and this mandate is

contained u/s. 144C(10) of the Act. In this case the DRP has merely

recorded a finding that Cyber Media (India) Online Ltd. is broadly

comparable to the assessee company. The finding so given appears

to be a finding necessary for disposal of objections raised by the

assessee to the proposed assessment order made by the assessing

authority. It however, is not that same thing as directions of DRP

which it is empowered to give under section 144C(5) read with section 144C(10) of the Act. The peculiar finding so given by DRP

was merely for the guidance of the assessing authority and not a

binding direction. If the assessing authority committed any

procedural lapse in taking guidance from the said finding, such a

lapse does not impinge upon the legality of the order framed within

the powers vested in him under the Act. The assessment, therefore,

cannot be held to be void or infructuous in this case. In the detailed

chart of the arguments laid before us, the appellant is found to have

raised new pleas and seeks this Tribunal to embark enquiry afresh

into the facts of each of the comparables selected by the TPO in the

fresh study for making adjustments in arm's length price and 15 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014

excluding comparable that of the assessee on the ground that they

had functional similarities or dissimilarities. In a case like this, the

assessing authority is the best judge of the situation and has to

arrive at its conclusion without any bias and on rational basis. In

the appellate proceedings before this Tribunal the scope of power

in a case like this is only to correct the errors committed by the AO

so as to make assessment of correct income of the assessee and

collect the legitimate tax due thereon by conforming to the

principles of natural justice. The Appellate Tribunal shall by itself

not embark enquiry afresh into the facts and comment upon the

similarities or dissimilarities of the comparables on the basis of new

pleas which in fact is under the domain of the assessing authority. It

is also claimed by the assessee and has fairly being admitted by the

Revenue that the assessee did not have reasonable and effective

opportunity of explaining its case before the authorities below. We,

therefore, on the peculiar facts consider it proper to set aside the

addition and remit the matter back to the Assessing Authority so

that the adjustments, if any, is made afresh in accordance with

law, by affording reasonable and effective opportunity of being

heard. In the remit proceedings, it shall be open to the AO to Act

fairly on the material that is available or is made available to him

for reaching the logical conclusion, in accordance with law. 16 ITA NO. 408/Del/2014 6. In the result, the appeal by the Assessee stands allowed for

statistical purposes only. Order pronounced in the Open Court on 07.5.2014,
immediately after conclusion of hearing.