I have gotten the same as well from riseyourcareer. [protected]@outlook.com. Got a call on last friday 24.8.2017 from [protected]. Said that my cv has been shortlisted for airline jobs for the role of ground staff/ air ticketing and back office for airport of my city and also if i was willing to relocate. The salary would be from 25k - 30ks, with accommodation, medical and pf. There will be 3 rounds of interview. 1. Online exam 2. Telephonic interview where the related airline company hr (In my case jet airways) will talk to me asking about family background. They lured me into paying 2000 after which they sent me a link for common, logic / reasoning exam, which had no connection to airlines in the littlest of ways. 3. Face to face interview after having cleared the first two rounds, at my city's airport to judge my personality. Anyway, today i get a call from the same number where the same guy transferred me to a woman who said that, all the documents that i have submitted needs to be verified by the cbi!! And for that i have to pay 6000 which is refundable. Their reasons : many candidates apply who provide fake documents so the charges are applicable for verification and also to find if the candidates are genuine. So the the payment must be done by 1 pm and the hr will call during 4-5 pm. Unfortunately, i paid the the money also. After that they demanded 14000 rs to get job confirmed. If job is not confirmed, all money you paid so far will be refunded. But as i got more suspicious i said i do not want to proceed. The asked to provide account details and and they said money we will be refunded in 50 days. I got angry and called them to check why earlier said two days refund policy is now changed to 50 days. To console, they said the can refund money in 20 days. But, the lady I spoke to stopped picking my call later on. I want to take action on them. She referred her name as anita (Anshu was the name in truecaller). The number she used to communicate was [protected]. I suspect they are stealing the contact details of 10th + and 12th plus candidates who are quite new to the market and has no much experience with job searching. They are targeting this group of people and provide attractive offers and force them to pay money and change their mobile numbers and disappear. I transferred money to the following account of summy raj, state bank of bihar, [protected] and if sc sbin 0009607 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)