A Division in the Bench created this reference. Ironically, answering the reference would create a decision of the Division Bench. 2. If patience is considered as a virtue, it could be stated to have well served, upon hearing the submissions of eloquence of the learned counsels representing competing interest. 3.Heard the learned Senior Counsels and learned counsel appearing for the petitioners, respondents and intervenors and perused the documents, pleadings and written arguments. 4. SCOPE OF REFERENCE:- 8(a) Owing to the narrative, discussion and all that have been set out supra, those of the impugned provisions in the said regulations and said tariff order which touch upon content of the programmes of broadcasters are liable to be struck down as not in conformity with the parent Act / plenary Act. Therefore, clauses 6(1), second proviso to 6(1), proviso to 7(2), 7(4), first proviso to 7(4) and 10(3) of the said Regulations and clauses 3(1), 3(2)(b), second proviso to 3(2)(b), first proviso to 3(3), second proviso to 3(3), third proviso to 3(3), fourth proviso to 3(3), fifth proviso to 3(3), sixth proviso to 3(3) and 3(4) of the said tariff order are struck down as not in conformity with the parent act, i.e., TRAI Act . 8(b) With regard to the other two impugned provisions, as we were given to understand in the course of the hearing that they are relevant and necessary for some other clauses also other than those which have been put in issue in the instant writ petitions, they deserve to be saved to the extent they survive and serve the purpose other than serving implementation or any other purpose of the provisions which we have struck down. Therefore, the other impugned provisions, i.e., clause 11(2) in the said Regulations as also clause 4(2) in the said tariff order will continue to be in the books, but cannot be pressed into service for anything to do with the provisions which we have struck down supra. In other words, these provisions, i.e., clause 11(2) in the said Regulations as also clause 4(2) in the said tariff order can be operated if it can be operated for other provisions of the said Regulations and said tariff order, other than those which we have struck down.

	4.7. In the differing decision, the Hon'ble Chief Justice has concurred with sub paragraphs 1 to 4 of the lead judgment. Therefore, these issues have attained finality. 4.8. The conclusion of the learned Chief Justice is as follows: 5.FACTUAL MATRIX AND ISSUES:- ORDER
"S.O. 45(E).--In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-clause (1) of section 11 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (24 of 1997) (hereinafter referred to as the Act), the Central Government hereby entrusts the following additional functions to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, established under Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Act, in respect of broadcasting services and cable services, namely: [Notification No. 39 issued by Ministry of Communication and Information Technology, dated 9 January 2004. S.O. No. 45(E) issued by TRAI, vide F. No. 13-1/2004]" 5.16. The petitioners were asked by the impugned regulations and tariff order package and sell their pay channels, free to air channels, High and Standard definition channels in a specified manner keeping in mind the overall interest of all inclusive of the general public. Thus, through this process, the petitioners are made to make their offers as a-la-carte and bouquet channels. They are asked not to mix the pay channels and free to air channels with each other. Therefore, the offer should either be a bouquet of free to air channels or pay channels. Similarly, they are not supposed to offer in a bouquet, both high definition and standard definition formats of the same channels. A monetary cap was fixed on the bouquet of pay channels. The extent of discount offer is also restricted to encourage the customer to effectively exercise its choice to choose channel of their liking on an a-la-carte basis. Thus, the impugned Regulations and the Tariff order make it mandatory for the broadcasters to make their offers in a particular way. A deemed extension of geographical territory was also provided in favour of the distribution under certain circumstances. It is needless to state that the actual content of the programme in a channel has never been touched. 5.17. These Regulations and Tariff Order are put into challenge by the petitioners inter alia contending that they deal with content for which there is no power available under the TRAI Act , which only deals with carriage. The other contention is that the field is occupied by the Copyright Act, 1957 , by which, the broadcasters reproduction right has been recognised and protected. 5.18. From the above, two principal issues crop up for determination:-(1) whether the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order can exist and operate through the powers conferred to and under the TRAI Act, 1997 ; (2) Whether the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order would impinge upon the provisions of Copyright Act, 1957 . 5.19. There are other issues branch out from these two main issues as noted supra. The issue as to whether content is involved as against carriage can be answered only by answering the core issues framed. In other words, answering the issues would amount to answering the issue qua the content. It is to be noted that the word content is looked at differently by both sides. The question as to whether the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order are valid in law or not has to be seen through the aforesaid issues framed, on an analysis of provisions of the enactments and their interpretation. 5.20. On the contrary, giving a factual finding without any legal basis would create a serious impact on the provisions governing. It would amount to deciding legal issues on the disputed questions of fact. After all, a legal issue can only be decided on an admitted fact. The Regulations, the Tariff Order and their impact are admitted facts. Therefore, the question for consideration is the availability of power leading to their birth and legal bar, if any. It is also to be noted at the cost of repetition that even the lead judgment as alluded to earlier, the petitioners have agreed that they do not venture to go into the merits of the case. Thus, the very existence of content as the petitioners seek to espouse would come under the caption merit. Packaging Channels may be a smart, prudent business acumen, but then we are on the legality rather than the logic, reason and object behind. Hence, it would be imperative to answer issues framed supra, which were, in fact, dealt with in both judgments in their own ways. 6. PRINCIPLES:- 6.5. OLIVER WENDELL HOMES: 6.6. A.DRIEDGER, Construction of Statute(2nd Ed. 1983): 6.8. An entry in the List under the Seventh Schedule is the field of legislation. Thus the power is derived only under Article 246 of the Constitution of India. Such an entry has to be given widest amplitude of its power as against a narrow and restricted one. A liberal construction of the words in an entry is the rule. Hence legislative entries are to be interpreted broad and wide. However, the general rule of interpretation also would apply by a combined reading of provisions, objects and reasons put together as a whole. 6.9. R.S.REKHCHAND MOHOTA SPINNING & WEAVING MILLS LTD., VS. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (1997) 6 Supreme Court Cases 12). 7. CONFLICT OF ENACTMENTS: This Court in solidaire case approved the observations of the Special Court to the effect that if the legislature confers a non-obstante clause on a later enactment, it means that the legislature intends that the later enactment should prevail. Further, it is a settled rule of interpretation that if one construction leads to a conflict, whereas on another construction two Acts can be harmoniously construed, then the latter must be adopted. 8. PRESUMPTION: (See: Pt. Rishikesh and Anr. vs. Salma Begum (Smt. ) 1995 (4) SCC 718 ), and Shri A.B. Krishna & Ors. vs. The State of Karnataka & Ors. 1998 (1) JT 613 ). 8.The doctrine of implied repeal is based on the theory that the Legislature, which is presumed to know the existing law, did not intend to create any confusion by retaining conflicting provisions and, therefore, when the court applies the doctrine, it does not more than give effect to the intention of the Legislature by examining the scope and the object of the two enactments and by a comparison of their provisions. The matter in each case is one of the construction and comparison of the two statutes. The Court leans against implying a repeal, "unless two Acts are so plainly repugnant to each other that effect cannot be given to both at the same time, a repeal will not be implied, or that there is a necessary inconsistency in the two Acts standing together." (See Craies on Statute Law, Seventh Edition, page 366, with reference to Re: Berrey [1936] Ch. 274 ). To determine whether a later statute repeals by implication an earlier, it is necessary to scrutinize the terms and consider the true meaning and effect of the earlier Act. Until this is done, it is impossible to ascertain whether any inconsistency exists between the two enactments. The areas of operation of the Act and the Establishments Act in question are different with wholly different aims and objects. They operate in their respective fields and there is no impediment for their existence side by side. (See State of M.P. vs. Kedia Leather and Liquor Ltd. and Ors. ( 2003 (6) Supreme 213 ). 9. READING DOWN: 10. EXTERNAL AID: 11. LEGAL FICTION: (Emphasis added) 29. The instant case is required to be decided in the light of the aforesaid settled legal propositions. 12. SUBORDINATE LEGISLATION: 16. The court considering the validity of a subordinate legislation, will have to consider the nature, object and scheme of the enabling Act, and also the area over which power has been delegated under the Act and then decide whether the subordinate legislation conforms to the parent statute. Where a rule is directly inconsistent with a mandatory provision of the statute, then, of course, the task of the court is simple and easy. But where the contention is that the inconsistency or non-conformity of the rule is not with reference to any specific provision of the enabling Act, but with the object and scheme of the parent Act, the court should proceed with caution before declaring invalidity.

This case involves the petitioner as well. 12.3. The aforesaid legal position has also been reiterated in a recent judgment in SHAYARA BANO VS. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS (MINISTRY OF WOMEN AND CHILD DEVLEOPMENT SECRETARY AND OTHERS((2017) 9 Supreme Court Cases page 1). 13. PROVISO: 27. Mr. Shenoy, the learned Counsel for the Petitioner has contended that a proviso may exist as an independent provision provided it does not make any reference to the main body of the Section to which it stands attached. He has further argued that such independent provisions may derogate from the other provisions and if they are of subsequent vintage, then even on the application of the maxim 'leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant' they would remain impervious or impregnable to attacks of being struck down being ultra vires. His submission is that since the substantive part of Section 2(1)(k) of TRAI Act clearly contemplates broadcasting services the proviso cannot be construed as an independent legislation and hence must be struck down. In the Rejoinder he has relied on the decision of the Privy Council in James Winter v. Attorney General of Victoria (1874-75) L.R.6 P.C. 378 and to the extracted paragraph from Dwarka Prasad v. Dwarka Das Saraf : "We may mention in fairness to Counsel that the following, among other decisions, were cited at the Bar bearing on the uses of provisos in statutes: C.I.T. v. Indo-Mercantile Bank Ltd. 1959 Supp. 2 SCR 256; Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. Asstt. C.S.T. ; Thompson v. Dibdin 1912 AC 533; Rex v. Dibdin 1910 Pro Div 57 and Tahsildar Singh v. State of U.P. 1959 Supp 2 SCR 875. The law is trite. A proviso must be limited to the subject-matter of the enacting clause. It is a settled rule of construction that a proviso must prima facie be read and considered in relation to the principal matter to which it is a proviso. It is not a separate or independent enactment. 'Words are dependent on the principal enacting words, to which they are tacked as a proviso. They cannot be read as divorced from their context' (1912 AC 544). If the rule of construction is that prima facie a proviso should be limited in its operation to the subject-matter of the enacting clause, the stand we have taken is sound. To expand the enacting clause, inflated by the proviso, sins against the fundamental rule of construction that a proviso must be considered in relation to the principal matter to which it stands as a proviso. A proviso ordinarily is but a proviso, although the golden rule is to read the whole section, inclusive of the proviso, in such manner that they mutually throw light on each other and result in a harmonious construction. The proper course is to apply the broad general rule of construction which is that a section or enactment must be construed as a whole, each portion throwing light if need be on the rest.

	13.3. This legal statement is taken due note of by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in the petitioners' own case referred supra. 14. SUBSTANTIVE PROVISION: 15. EJUSDEM GENERIS AND NOSCITUR A SOCIIS: 16. APPROBATE AND REPROBATE: 17.1. A regulated regime came into being through the creation of a sector specific enactment viz., The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (Act 24 of 1997). It can be said, this Act is a creation of a judgment of the Apex Court in SECRETARY, MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING, GOVT. OF INDIA AND OTHERS V. CRICKET ASOCIATION OF BENGAL AND OTHERS ((1995) 2 Supreme Court Cases 161). In this celebrated judgment, the pressing need to create a comprehensive enactment regulating the airwaves or frequencies being public properties was felt and emphasized. So also the overwhelming public interest to create a level playing field, avoid monopoly, regulate the service providers and the usage of frequencies, airwaves, content of the programmes and to sustain, promote and improve the quality. Accordingly, a direction was issued to the Government of India to formulate a comprehensive enactment after noting the inadequacies inherent in the Indian Telegraphic Act, 1885 . The following are the important passages. 201(b)(b)Airwaves constitute public property and must be utilised for advancing public good. No individual has a right to utilise them at his choice and pleasure and for purposes of his choice including profit............... (c)Broadcasting media is inherently different from Press or other means of communication/information. The analogy of press is misleading and inappropriate. This is also the view expressed by several Constitutional Courts including that of the United States of America. 4. The Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 is totally inadequate to govern an important medium like the radio and television, i.e., broadcasting media. The Act was intended for an altogether different purpose when it was enacted. This is the result of the law in this country not keeping pace with the technological advances in the field of information and communications. While all the leading democratic countries have enacted laws specifically governing the broadcasting media, the law in this country has stood still, rooted in the Telegraph Act of 1885. Except Section 4(1) and the definition of telegraph, no other provision of the Act is shown to have any relevance to broadcasting media. It is, therefore, imperative that the parliament makes a law placing the broadcasting media in the hands of a public/statutory corporate or the corporations, as the case may be. This is necessary to safeguard the interests of public and the interests of law as also to avoid uncertainty, confusion and consequent litigation." 17.2. Accordingly, a decision was made by the promulgation of an ordinance leading to the deliverance of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 . Some of the provisions of the ordinance were taken note of by the Apex Court in DELHI SCIENCE FORUM VS. UNION OF INDIA ((1996) 2 Supreme Court Cases 405). Thus, the Act came into existence in the year 1997. It is imperative to point out that several experts in different fields including eminent legal personalities took part in the process. 17.3. The preamble of the Act 24 of 1997 is as under. A reading of the aforesaid would clearly show that the object was to regulate the telecommunication services, to protect the interest of service providers, such as, broadcasters, distributors etc., along with the consumers, who are otherwise called as subscribers and to promote orderly growth. The preamble also gives additional powers to deal with matters connected and incidental to the object. Hence, there is no doubt that the Act in its sweep takes care of many factors. Thus, the Act was introduced in exercise of the power under Article 246 of the Constitution of India over a subject coming under Entry 31 of List 1 of the VII Schedule. 17.4. The word "regulate" as adumbrated in the preamble assumes greater importance in relation to the subject sought to be dealt with. A restrictive and rigid meaning shall not be given to the word "regulate". Otherwise, the very object and intendment of the Act would be at peril. BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM LIMITED VS. TELECOM REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA AND OTHERS ((2014) 3 Supreme Court Cases 222). (emphasis supplied)
Therefore, if one sees the preamble along with the statement of object and reasons it is clear that the intention was to make provisions regulating the services to meet the customers demand at a reasonable price. Hence, the paramount interest is that of the consumer, who should be given the choice to select a channel on a level playing ground. Two amendments were made in the year 2000 and 2004. Once the Act is understood as a social, welfare one, a liberal approach has to be adopted in tune with the objects meant to be achieved. We are particularly concerned with Section 11 , which would be dealt with at a later point of time. Suffice it is to state that the Act is meant to regulate a large number of activities. It is also to be noted that no such regulation like the impugned one and the tariff order can ever be made under any other enactment including The Copyright Act, 1957 . 17.7. Section 2 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 deals with definitions. It opens with the words unless context otherwise requires. Therefore, the words mentioned therein are to be given their natural meaning in tune with the object enshrined. Section 2(e) of the Act defines the licensee. Licensee is one who is licensed under sub section (1) of section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. To be noted, without such a licence, a broadcaster cannot undertake the function of uplinking and downlinking. The licensee also becomes a service provider under sub clause (j) of section 2 of the Act. There is no difficulty in holding that a broadcaster is a service provider. Section 2(j) merely says a service provider includes the licensee. Thus, a person can be a service provider despite not being a licensee under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 . After all, a public property is licenced in favour of the third party, which will not have the privilege unless it is conferred accordingly. A finding to that effect has also been given by the Division Bench of Delhi High Court in STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED 's case referred to supra. 19. Section 3(1AA) of the Telegraph Act being the definition of `telegraph' had already been introduced into that statute with effect from 2.5.1961. It is in this context that it has been emphasized that the definitions in the TRAI Act has palpably been substantially lifted from the Telegraph Act . Therefore, even if the TRAI Act is ignored, telecom services as well as broadcasting services would be regulated by the Telegraph Act . The umbilical connection is also apparent from manifold and repeated references in TRAI Act to the Telegraph Act. The definition of licensee and licensor in the former statute refers back to Section 4 of the latter Act. The Broadcasting Bill which was intended to be contemporaneous legislation to the TRAI Act , was introduced in Parliament in 1997 and was referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee for detailed consideration. The Bill, however, lapsed consequent upon the premature and precipitate dissolution of Parliament in December 1997. The intention of Parliament was already manifestly clear, namely, that although broadcasting is inherently covered under the TRAI Act and the Telegraph Act, its galloping growth has warranted that it should be governed by a separate statutory structure. It was for this reason that although broadcasting services would fall within the umbra of the definition of telecommunication services as available in Section 2(k) of the TRAI Act, it was from the very inception intentionally excluded there from, in the sanguine expectancy that the Broadcasting Bill would very soon receive statutory standing alongside the TRAI Act . In the event, however, the planning proved presumptuous. The Proviso is the penumbra which will persist only till the passing of the Broadcasting Bill or the Convergence Bill, as the case may be. It appears to us that this is the intention of Parliament. 17.8. As stated supra, this judgment has been taken note of and approved by the Appellate Authority in M.P.No.108 of 2009 etc., in Petition No.172 of 2009. Therefore, there is no difficulty in holding that a broadcaster is the service provider under the purview of the Act. 17.9. Much has been said on the definition contained in Section 2(1)(k) of the Act, which defines a telecommunication service. (k) telecommunication service means service of any description (including electronic mail, voice mail, data services, audio tax services, video tax services, radio paging and cellular mobile telephone services) which is made available to users by means of any transmission or reception of signs, signals, writing images and sounds or intelligence of any nature, by wire, radio, visual or other electromagnetic means but shall not include broadcasting services. 17.10. We must bear in mind that we are dealing with the definition section. Thus, it is not a substantive provision. It includes service of any description and therefore, services mentioned thereunder are merely illustrative in nature. What is important herein is the service being made available to "the end user". This provision does not define either telecommunication or broadcasting. Either we can go for external aid or the impugned regulation, which defined them accordingly. So are the other definition provisions. There is no difficulty in reading the regulation along with the impugned regulation atleast with reference to the definitions. This provision can be read to mean as which is made available to the users by means of any transmission or which is made available to users by reception of signs, signals, writing images and sounds or intelligence of any nature, by wire, radio, visual or other electromagnetic means. Therefore, the words means of any transmission stand apart as against reception of signs by wire, radio etc., or other electromagnetic means. Here again, the word any transmission has to be given wider import. All means of transmissions are included in this. It is axiomatic that a definition clause cannot be used to understand object as it shall only be otherwise. What is important is the service made available to the users, though means may be different. Thus, this section cannot be given a restrictive or narrow meaning to destroy the very enactment itself. This may also be academic since a notification came into being as per the proviso and thus, a broadcasting service is accordingly brought into the purview of the Act. Perhaps that is the reason why a challenge was made earlier to the very provision itself at the instance of the petitioner. 17.11. It is pertinent to note that the challenge made to the definition section was repelled by the Delhi High Court and confirmed by the Apex Court. Therefore, there is no difficulty in holding that broadcasting service is a specie of the genus i.e., telecommunication service. 17.12. Section 2(2) speaks in clear terms that words and expressions, though used and not defined in this Act, but defined in two other enactments will have the same meaning. There is no difficulty in appreciating the rationale behind the aforesaid provision. Such a legislation is absolutely permissible especially, when enactments dealt with similar matters and in any case, there is no challenge made to this provision. After all, a legislation by reference or incorporation is certainly permissible in law. 17.13. The next important provision is Section 11 of the Act. Section 11 has got four different parts. This section speaks about the functions of the authority. It has got two fundamental functions, viz., recommendatory and regulatory. We are primarily concerned with Sections 11(1)(b) , (c), (d), 11(2) and 11(4). It is well settled that when substantive powers are given through the provisions, to give effect to the object of the Act, the words are to be treated as illustrative and not exhaustive. Thus, once the power to regulate the activities of various stake holders is recognised keeping in view of the predominant public interest, the thing would automatically fall in place. Section 11(b) speaks about compliance of the terms and conditions of the licence. This also would take in its ambit, licence issued under Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. This provision also deals with laying down standard of quality of service. The underlying interest is that of the consumer. Therefore, Section 11(b) has to be read as a whole. If that is done, then, there is no difficulty in bringing the availability and existence of the power in favour of TRAI to regulate. The words quality of service and public interest are to be given an extensive and expansive meaning. Similarly, sub clause d of Section 11 provides sufficient power to perform such other functions as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act. Therefore, this provision, viz., Section 11(d) is directly relatable to the provisions of the Act along with this object. In other words, exercise of a power in this provision need not be read into Section 11 (b) being distinct and independent. What is to be noted is that the functions might be varied and that is the reason why, the word include has been mentioned while referring to administrative and financial functions being part. Sub clause 11(2) provides sufficient ammunition for the authority to specify the rates for the telecommunication services. It is curious to note that the word  television channel has never been mentioned under the Act as against broadcasting service. Needless to state that a challenge made to this provision was repelled by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court while rejecting the case of the petitioner to a challenge made to Section 2(k) . 17.14. Something can also be said about sub section 3 of Section 11 of the Act. The manner in which this provision is couched would clearly show the extent of power that can be exercised by the authority. The negative covenant in a sense highlights the numerous powers, which is otherwise available to achieve the object. Some times from the exception carved out, the extent of power can be assessed. Similarly, maintaining transparency while exercising power in discharging the function would also qualify the extent and the area available. To put it differently, safeguards are required when powers are more. If it is a mere administrative action to be exercised on a restrictive field then there is no need for any safeguard. 17.15. Section 12 of the Act speaks about the powers of the authority to call for information, conduct investigation etc. In sub clause (4) a power to issue direction to a service provider, for its proper functioning is bestowed on the authority. This provision also once again reiterates the extent of power that can be wielded by the authority over a service provider. 17.16. Section 13 touches upon the power of the authority to issue direction in discharge of the function under Section 11(1) of the Act. These directions are meant to be complied by the service providers. While Section 11 speaks about function, this provision, the power. Section 11(1) has to be read along with Section 13 . Here again, it is to be noted that this power is required only for the reason a larger role is bestowed upon the authority in his function under Section 11(1) of the Act. 17.17. The proviso makes it clear that such directions are to be restricted to the matters specified in Section 11(1)(b) of the Act. One can say this is because Section 11(1)(a) is merely recommendatory in nature. 17.18. Now let us come to the provisions dealing with regulations. Section 36 is the source provider to make regulation consistent with the Act and the Rules. Making a regulation is a legislative Act to be done through the parliament. Under Section 36(2) , such regulation may provide for the matters specified therein. This power has to be exercised in particular and without prejudice to the general power conferred under Section 36(1) of the Act. Thus, under Section 36(1) , the TRAI Act makes regulations to carry out the objects of the enactment enshrined under Sections 11 , 12 and 13 . Such a power is rather wide and primacy. This power as conferred is merely illustrative as stated above. 17.19. Except complying with the Act and Rules, there is no other restriction to TRAI Act to make a regulation under Section 36 of the Act. Section 36(2) specifies various topics for enacting the regulations. They can also be referable to Sections 11(1)(b) and 11(1)(c) . Section 36(2) does not encroach upon the powers conferred under Section 36(1) of the Act. Hence, there is absolutely no restriction on the exercise of power under Section 36(1) by the existence of Section 36(2) . 17.20. Section 38 pertains to application of certain laws. Both enactments viz., Act 24 of 1997 and Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 , are to be read in unison as complementing each other. To be noted that TRAI Act came into being on the inability of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 to deal with the march of technology. Therefore, there is no apparent conflict, which position is made clear by Section 38 of the Act. Perhaps that is the reason why the observation to that effect has also been made by the Division Bench of Delhi High Court in STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED referred to supra, stating that the umbilical cord between the two enactments can be seen. 17.21. Now, let us come to the notifications and the impugned regulations. As discussed and noted, the notification issued by the Central Government in S.O.44 (E) and 45 (E) dated 09.04.2001 gives sufficient power. It not only brings a broadcasting services into the fold of the Act but also, all addressable systems along with standard norms periodicity and revision of rates for pay channels. Power is to be exercised without prejudice to the context of Section 11(2) of the Act. Though this notification came into being in the year 2004, the same has not been put into challenge. On the contrary, they did make a challenge to the very definition clause perhaps on the understanding that the notification is only consequential. Hence, suffice it is to state that the petitioners are bound by the Act, notification and the regulations and Tariff Order issued from time to time. Perhaps, the petitioners understood the aforesaid position and thus did not raise any murmur to the earlier tariff orders, which might have also been questioned on the very same lines, as they now contend. 17.22. The following decisions would clearly establish the availability and existence of the power under Sections 11 and 36 of the TRAI Act. AVISHEK GOENKA VS. UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER ((2012) 5 Supreme Court Cases 275)
"18. If one examines the powers and functions of TRAI, as postulated under Section 11 of the Act, it is clear that TRAI would not only recommend, to the DoT, the terms and conditions upon which a licence is granted to a service provider but has to also ensure compliance of the same and may recommend revocation of licence in the event of non- compliance with the regulations. It has to perform very objectively one of its main functions, i.e., to facilitate competition and promote efficiency in the operation of the telecommunication services, so as to facilitate growth in such services. It is expected of this regulatory authority to monitor the quality of service and even conduct periodical survey to ensure proper implementation." 17.23. STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED VS. TELECOM REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA AND OTHERS ((2008) 146 DLT 455 (DB))
35.We shall now shift focus to Section 11 of the TRAI Act which has been substantially altered by the Amending Act of 2000 inasmuch as its first sub-section has been completely substituted by the extant one. However, the provision with which we are presently concerned, viz. Sub-section (2), has not been touched. It empowers TRAI to determine and prescribe "the rates at which the telecommunication services within and outside India shall be provided." Its Proviso bestows discretion on TRAI "to notify different rates for different persons or class of persons for similar telecommunication services and where different rates are fixed as aforesaid the Authority shall record the reasons therefore. The fact that different treatment can be meted out to similarly placed persons is indeed far-reaching.............." 42.In conclusion, therefore, the fixation of tariffs by the Authority is within their competence even in regard to broadcasters. The devising of an upper limit of pay channels will have the effect of a wider dissemination and viewership thereby safeguarding the pre-eminent right of the citizenry in the context of freedom of speech and expression. .............. 43. Section 11(2) of TRAI Act states that notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Telegraph Act , the Authority may notify the rates at which telecommunication services shall be provided; the Authority may notify different rates for different persons or class of person for reason to be recorded; the Authority shall not act against the sovereign and integrity of India; or the security of the State; or friendly relations with foreign States; or public order, decency or morality. Learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioners contend that this Section bestows unchannelised, unguided, undefined and untrammeled powers on the delegate namely the Authority, and hence should be struck down. What has to be ascertained in every case where such a submission has been put forward is whether the legislative policy has been delineated before the delegation is made, and also whether a correctional system of superintendence and supervision of the delegate's actions has been put in place. Courts should also consider the degree to which delegation is inevitable or necessary or expedient. The frontiers within which the Delegate/Authority must function is further identifiable from indicia available in the Act itself. The Preamble enjoins that the Authority should endeavor to (a) regulate the telecommunication services, (b) protect the interests of service providers and consumers of the telecom sector, (c) to promote and ensure orderly growth of the telecom sector. Jural experience would vouch that fees or rates prescribed in the statute invariably become unrealistic aeons before they receive corrective attention. Where fees, tariffs and rates are dependent on market forces it is expedient to leave their determination and change to the Executive or the Authority or the Regulators, as the case may be. Where redressal machinery is provided for such delegation should be impervious to objection. Inasmuch as the TRAI Act provides for the establishment of the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) with jurisdiction inter alia to hear and dispose of appeals against any direction, decision or order of the Authority, this important safeguard against any possible abuse or arbitrary exercise of power is duly in place. A second Appeal to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India is also provided for. 49. Furthermore, the TRAI is clearly competent to prescribe the conditions and tariff impugned before us by virtue of the TRAI Act itself. We have already upheld the legality of Section 2(1)(k) , the consequence of which is that broadcasting is undeniably and unassailably covered by that statute. TRAI accordingly is expected to make recommendation inter alia in respect of "measures to facilitate competition and promote efficiency in the operation of telecommunication services so as to facilitate growth in services (see Section 11(1)(a)(iv) )". TRAI must regulate arrangements amongst service providers of sharing their revenue derived from providing telecommunication services (see Section 11(1)(b)(iv) ) and generally to perform such other function including such administrative and financial functions as may be entrusted to it by the Central Government as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act (see Section 11(1)(d) . However, on a perusal of Section 11(2) there is no scope for any controversy concerning the competence of the TRAI to prescribe the impugned rates at which telecommunication services are to be provided. Therefore, de hors the CTN Act and the CTN Rules TRAI is otherwise competent to fix tariffs, as also to prescribe the Standard Interconnection Agreements. 

	 17.24. BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM LIMITED VS. TELECOM REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA AND OTHERS ((2014) 3 Supreme Court Cases 222). 17.27. The impugned Regulations and Tariff Order have been passed as a sequel to the earlier ones. The regulatory regime started functioning from the year 2004 onwards. Thus, the manner of packaging and offering coupled with the rates cut is regulated from time to time. Consultation process would show an element of fairness adopted by TRAI. Almost all the objections raised have been dealt with sufficient reasons as could be seen from the explanatory memorandum attached to the impugned proceedings. As noted, strangely the petitioners challenged some of the clauses in the Regulations and the Tariff Order, despite asking for and agreed upon. Be that as it may, the Regulations and the impugned Tariff Order clearly mention the object, logic and the reason behind them. They do not fix any cap on the pricing of the channel. However, it was felt that the underlying principle that the consumer is the king is being destroyed by the so called business acumen, marketing strategy or commercial prudence. Suffice it is to state that the petitioners are aggrieved by the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order. Therefore, power can be generously traced to Sections 36 , 11(i)(b) and 11(i)(d) of the TRAI Act. As discussed above, these provisions along with the Notification do provide sufficient ammunition to sustain the impugned regulation. 18. IMPUGNED REGULATIONS: (h) broadcaster means a person or a group of persons, or body corporate, or any organization or body who, after having obtained, in its name, downlinking permission for its channels, from the Central Government, is providing programming services; (i) broadcasters share of maximum retail price with reference to a pay channel or a bouquet of pay channels means any fee payable by a distributor of television channels to a broadcaster for signals of pay channel or bouquet of pay channels, as the case may be, and for which due authorization has been obtained by such distributor from that broadcaster; (j) broadcasting services means the dissemination of any form of communication like signs, signals, writing, pictures, images and sounds of all kinds by transmission of electro-magnetic waves through space or through cables intended to be received by the general public either directly or indirectly and all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly; (kk) service provider means the Government as a service provider and includes a licensee as well as any broadcaster, distributor of television channels or local cable operator; (ii) set top box or STB means a device, which is connected to or is part of a television receiver and which enables a subscriber to view subscribed channels; (mm) subscriber for the purpose of these regulations, means a person who receives broadcasting services, from a distributor of television channels, at a place indicated by such person without further transmitting it to any other person and who does not cause the signals of television channels to be heard or seen by any person for a specific sum of money to be paid by such person, and each set top box located at such place, for receiving the subscribed broadcasting services, shall constitute one subscriber; (pp) television channel means a channel, which has been granted permission for downlinking by the Central Government under the policy guidelines issued or amended by it from time to time and reference to the term channel shall be construed as a reference to television channel. 18.2. As discussed above, the definition clauses, which come under chapter-1 are to be read in consonance with the main Act unless the contrary is proved. Accordingly, broadcaster has been defined as the one, who obtains permission for its channel and provides programme service. The word interconnection has been defined as the one in between the service providers and the subscribers. Therefore, the relationship between the service providers and the subscribers has been rightly taken note of. To make the position clear, a licensee is once again reiterated as the service provider, which is inclusive of broadcaster, distributor and local cable operator. Therefore, all the three set of actors have been brought under the purview of the service provider. A set top box, which otherwise called STB, has been defined as a device which enables the end user viz., the subscriber to view the subscribed channels. Therefore, it is clear that without the set top box, which is to be provided by a service provider, no subscriber can either actually or likely to view. This definition also makes it clear that what is sufficient is the availability of a channel to be seen. Subscriber has been defined as the one, who receives the broadcasting services without further transmission. A television channel has been defined as the one, which has been granted permission for downlinking. Thus, to attract the definition clause, a permission is mandatory. 18.3. The regulations also define the programme, which means exhibition of films, features, drama etc. Programme means any television broadcast and includes: - (i) exhibition of films, features, dramas, advertisements and serials; (ii) any audio or visual or audio visual live performance or presentation and the expression "programming service" shall be construed accordingly. 18.4. The aforesaid definition of word programme and programme service will have to be understood as being a member of broadcasting service family. A broadcasting services is a wide term inclusive of different forms of broadcasting vis a vis radio broadcasting television broadcasting, web broadcasting etc. Now in the impugned regulations, we are concerned with television broadcasting by which both audio ( sounds and video) pictures and image signals are made available to the public. Hence, this definition clause makes it clear that it does not takes in its ambit the other forms of broadcasting service. Therefore, a programming service has been defined separately to show it distinctly from the other forms of broadcasting services. 18.5. Thus, from the scheme of things, there is no role for a television channel either under the Act or under the Regulation. The impugned regulation has come into being through the exercise of the power available under the Act. So is the case of the impugned Tariff Order. The Tariff Order has been passed in exercise of the power conferred under Section 11(2) of the Act read with notification No.39. It does not deal with pricing individual components of the content, such as, a particular movie or a sport. Programme has never been touched upon with the specific reference to the nature of content. The following are some of the reasons assigned by the authority in the explanatory memorandum. 64. The Authority has noted that at present the uptake of channels on a-la-carte basis is negligible as compared to the bouquet subscriptions. Analysis yields that the prime reason for such poor uptake of a-la-carte channels is that the a-la-carte rates of channels are disproportionately high as compared to the bouquet rates and further, there is no well defined relationship between these two rates. As per data available with TRAI, some bouquets are being offered by the distributors of television channels at a discount of upto 80% -90% of the sum of a-la-carte rates of pay channels constituting those bouquets. These discounts are based on certain eligibility criteria/conditions to be fulfilled by the distributor of television channels in order to avails those discounts from broadcasters. Such high discounts force the subscribers to take bouquets only and thus reduce subscriber choice. As a result, while technically, a-la-carte rates of channels are declared, these are illusive and subscribers are left with no choice but to opt for bouquets. Bouquets formed by the broadcasters contain only few popular channels. The distributors of television channels are often asked to take the entire bouquet as otherwise they are denied the popular channels altogether or given such popular channels at RIO rates. To make the matters worse, the distributors of television channels have to pay as if all the channels in the bouquet are being watched by the entire subscriber base, when in fact only the popular channels will have high viewership. In such a scenario, at the retail end, the distributors of television channels somehow push these channels to maximum number of subscribers so as to recover costs. This marketing strategy based on bouquets essentially results in perverse pricing of bouquets vis-`-vis the individual channels. As a result, the customers are forced to subscribe to bouquets rather than subscribing to a-la-carte channels of their choice. Thus, in the process, the public, in general, end up paying for unwanted channels and this, in effect, restricts subscriber choice. Bundling of large number of unwanted channels in bouquets also result in artificial occupation of distributors network capacity. This acts as an entry barrier for newer TV channels. 65. In order to facilitate subscribers to exercise their options in line with intention of lawmakers to choose individual channels, in the new framework the broadcasters will declare to customers/subscribers the MRP of their a-la-carte channels and bouquets of pay channels. In order to ensure that prices of the a-la-carte channels are kept reasonable, the maximum discount permissible in formation of a bouquet has been linked with the sum of the a-la-carte prices of the of pay channels forming that bouquet. A broadcaster can offer a maximum discount of 15% while offering its bouquet of channels over the sum of MRP of all the pay channels in that bouquet so as to enable customer choice through a-la-carte offering and also prevent skewed a-la-carte and bouquet pricing (refer example 1). The bouquet(s) offered by the broadcasters to subscribers shall be provided by the distributors of television channels to the subscribers without any alteration in composition of the bouquet(s). In case a broadcaster feels that more discount can be provided in formation of the bouquet, it indirectly means that a-la-carte prices at the first stage has been kept high and there is a need to revise such a-la-carte prices downwardly. Full flexibility has been given to broadcasters to declare price of their pay channels on a-la-carte basis to correct such situations, if it may come. 66. Some stakeholders are of the opinion that limiting the discount to subscribers while forming bouquets is anti subscriber. In this regard, while the Authority wants to facilitate the availability of a-la-carte choice to customers/ subscribers, it does not intend to encroach upon the freedom of broadcasters and distributors to do business. During the discussions in the Parliament on the motion for consideration of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2011, the then Minister of Information and Broadcasting emphasised the need to establish a system for subscribers to choose a-lacarte channels of choice. The Authority has also made several attempts in this regard, but for one or the other reason could not succeed. Here it is important to understand that the Authority has not been able to do pricing of channels in the absence of pricing of content. Present trends indicate that majority of channels are priced much below the prevailing ceiling, but higher ceilings were prescribed to give flexibility to broadcasters to monetise their channels and freedom to do business. Further, different channels even in the same genre may have varying cost of production and potential to monetise, but within the framework. A broadcaster may price even non-driver channels at a much higher value that they can command. Non-discovery of reasonable price of a channel in a market is one of the constraints that can be manipulated and misused to price a channel in a-la-carte from which is illusionary. Such high a-la-carte prices permits broadcasters/distributors to provide high discounts to push non-drivers channels in form of bouquets to the subscribers while reducing the probability of choosing the a-la-carte channels of choice as required by the lawmakers in the Parliament. The possibility to forcing bouquets over a-la-carte choice by using higher discounts can be further understood by following example, where a 41 broadcaster has a total of 35 pay channels out of which only 5 are driver channels : 67. In the present regulatory framework incidences have come to the knowledge where discount upto 90% on the declared RIO prices has been given by broadcasters. Obviously such efforts kill competition and reduce a-la-carte choice which is anti-subscriber. Accordingly, the Authority has prescribed a discount of 15% to be provided by 42 broadcasters at wholesale level and further 15% to be provided by distributors at retail level. The net effect to subscribers at retail level will be a discount of approximately 30% on the bouquets of channels. Therefore flexibility of formation of bouquet has been given to broadcasters and MSOs both to such an extent that total permissible discount does not kill the a-la-carte choice. The Authority has been careful in prescribing a framework which does not encourage non-driver channel to be pushed to subscribers against their choice. Non-driver channels which are provided as part of bouquets not only kill choice of the ala-carte channels but also eat away the channel carrying capacity available with distributors which may result in artificial capacity constraints at distribution platforms for launch of new/competitive channels. Such restrictions are anti-subscriber and have to be carefully handled. Accordingly, the Authority has consciously decided the present framework of prescribing relationship between a-la-carte and bouquet prices to protect interest of customers/ viewers and as well as those of service providers. However, the Authority will keep a watch on the developments in the market and may review the maximum permissible discount while offering a bouquet, in a time period of about two years. 68. A broadcaster is free to offer its pay channels in the form of bouquet(s) to customers. While subscribing to bouquet, a customer may not be aware of the price of each channel forming the bouquet. Abnormal high price of a pay channel may result in higher price of a bouquet leading to adverse impact on subscribers interests. It is an established fact that bundling of channels complicates and obscures their pricing. Prices are obscured because subscribers do not always understand the relationship between the bundle price and a price for each component. However, the bundling of channels offers convenience to the subscribers as well as services providers in subscription management. Keeping in view these realties and to protect the interests of subscribers, the Authority has prescribed a ceiling of Rs. 19/- on the MRP of pay channels which can be provided as part of a bouquet. Therefore, any pay channel having MRP of more than Rs. 19/- cannot become part of any bouquet. The amount of Rs. 19/- has been prescribed keeping in view the prevailing highest genre wise ceilings of Rs. 15.12 for all addressable systems between broadcaster & DPOs at wholesale level and further enhancing it 1.25 times to account for DPOs distribution fee. Broadcasters also have complete freedom to price their pay 43 channels which do not form part of any bouquet and offered only on a-la-carte basis. Similar conditions will also be applicable to DPOs for formation of the bouquets. However, the Authority will keep a watch on the developments in the market and may review the manner in which a channel can be provided as part of a bouquet, in a time period of about two years. 19. THE COPYRIGHT ACT, 1957: (dd) broadcast means communication to the public (i)by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or (ii) (ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast; 19.4. Thus, a broadcast would mean a communication to the public, which is inclusive of re-broadcast by the means mentioned thereunder. The words communication to the public have been defined under Section 2ff, which is appositely referred hereunder. (ff) communication to the public means making any work or performance available for being seen or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the public directly or by any means of display or diffusion other than by issuing physical copies of it, whether simultaneously or at places and times chosen individually, regardless of whether any member of the public actually sees, hears or otherwise enjoys the work or performance so made available. Explanation. For the purposes of this clause, communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public;

	19.5. Work has been defined under sub clause 'y' to mean any one of the following works. (y) work means any of the following works, namely: (i)a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work; (ii) a cinematograph film; (iii) a 2 [sound recording];

	19.6. If one reads sub clauses (ff) and (y) of Section 2 , making any work would mean the works mentioned in sub clause 2(y). This should be available for being seen or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the public directly or by other means mentioned therein. Therefore, what is to be kept in mind is the availability of any work to be seen by the general public. This position has been reiterated once again by the later portion of the definition section by creating a deeming fiction as to whether any member of the public actually sees, hears or otherwise enjoys the work, which is made available. Hence, two factors are important. One is the availability of the work and the other is the enjoyment by any member of the public. The question as to whether it is seen, heard or not becomes irrelevant. Therefore, a deeming fiction is created. A fact has been created, which is otherwise non existent. Hence, much emphasis will have to be given for the availability and thus, actual seeing or hearing becomes a non issue. 19.7. When such a work is "communicated to the public" as defined under Section 2 (ff) through the "means" mentioned in 2 (dd), it becomes a broadcasting. Therefore, a broadcast would actually happen only when it is communicated to the public. When such an activity is done by an organisation, it becomes a broadcaster. Accordingly, a cycle has to be completed from the point of view of the broadcaster to the end user viz.,the subscriber. 19.8. The word infringing copy has been defined under Section 2-m to mean, 
(m) infringing copy means (iv) in relation to a programme or performance in which such a broadcast reproduction right or a performers right subsists under the provisions of this Act, the sound recording or a cinematographic film of such programme or performance, if such reproduction, copy or sound recording is made or imported in contravention of the provisions of this Act; 19.9. To be noted, this definition section speaks about a programme along with a performance. As stated earlier, the word broadcast connotes a wider meaning as against the programme though they are interchangeable at times. When a broadcast of a programme takes place containing a work as defined, a BRR gets created. 20. Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012 : A bird's eye view : Accordingly, in view of the amendment made, the authors are given right to own their music and lyrics even if they are created to make a film. 20.5. Towards strengthening the rights of the authors, it is sought to provide the right to royalty sharing. This has been made as an absolute and inalienable one. The amendment also provides, withholding of such a right even after the licence granted in favour of a third party. Incidentally, the amendment gave substantial rights to the authors over the copyright societies. 20.6. These amendments also went into the issue of transparency qua the copyright society. Accordingly, a copyright society is mandated to publish tariff scheme as against the earlier mere submission to the Registrar of Copyright. Further more, the right to challenge the Tariff Scheme of a copyright society has been given to any person aggrieved. The Copyright Board is also sufficiently empowered to discharge its functions. Thus it could be seen that the 

object of the 2012 amendment is to enhance and protect the rights of the copyright holder in general and the music industry in particular. This can also be seen from the speech made by the Honourable Minister on the floor of the parliament. 20.7. Chapter III of Copyright Act, 1957 , deals with meaning of copyright and the work in which copyright subsists. Suffice it is to state that they do not concern with a broadcast reproduction right. Section 16 once again deals with a copyright, which cannot be enforced otherwise than the one provided under the Act. Thus, it restricts a copyright. Though this Section does not speak about a broadcast reproduction right, even otherwise, such a right can only be under the Act. To be noted, this is not a substantive provision, it fixes the area of operation qua a right. 20.8. Chapter IV governs ownership of copyright and the rights of the owner. In this, section 18 speaks of assignment of copyright with Section 19 mode of assignment. These provisions are meant to protect the right of the copyright holder with specific reference to the royalty factor. 20.9. Chapter VI of the Copyright Act, 1957 concerns itself with licences. Under Section 30 , a licence may be granted by the owner in favour of the licensee. Section 31-D specifically mentions the requirement of the licence for broadcasting of literary and musical works and sound recording. Here again, it mandates a broadcasting organisation to pay the owner of the copyright the royalties and for that purpose maintain the accounts. Thus, even this provision speaks about the duty of the broadcasting agencies vis a vis the rights of the owner. Chapter VII speaks of the registration and functioning of the copyright societies. The object is to make sure that a copyright holder is not left in lurch. That can also be seen on a perusal of Section 33-A of the Act, which speaks of tariff scheme and Section 34 , which deals with administration of right of the owner by the copyright society. On a perusal of the speech of the Honourable Minister for Information and Broadcasting while introducing the Bill and the bird's eye view of the amendment, one can say with certainty that these provisions have been introduced to avoid the exploitation and alienation of the holder of the copyright. A specific reference has been made on the suffering of the copyright holder when substantial profit went into the kitty of a licensee much to his agony. Suffice it is to state that it does not contemplate the process of transmission between a broadcaster and a distributor prior to a broadcast, as defined under the Act. 20.10. Much has been said about the 'broadcast reproduction right'. Rights of broadcasting organisation have been brought under Chapter VIII. The Copyright Act only deals with the rights and duties of individuals such as copyright holder and the licensee with a limited right to a third party. Therefore, it does not deal with a larger public interest, especially when the airwaves and frequencies are owned by the Government which is duty bound to protect the overwhelming public interest of the subscriber. This provision also does not deal with a "broadcast right" as such but only a "broadcast reproduction right". Before discussing further let us see the provision as such. 37. Broadcast reproduction right. 
(1) Every broadcasting organisation shall have a special right to be known as broadcast reproduction right in respect of its broadcasts. (2) The broadcast reproduction right shall subsist until twenty-five years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the broadcast is made. (3)During the continuance of a broadcast reproduction right in relation to any broadcast, any person who, without the licence of the owner of the right does any of the following acts of the broadcast or any substantial part thereof, (a) re-broadcast the broadcast; or (b) causes the broadcast to be heard or seen by the public on payment of any charges; or (c) makes any sound recording or visual recording of the broadcast; or (d) makes any reproduction of such sound recording or visual recording where such initial recording was done without licence or, where it was licensed, for any purpose not envisaged by such licence; or 1 [(e) sells or gives on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such rental, any such sound recording or visual recording referred to in clause (c) or clause (d)]. shall, subject to the provision of section 39 , be deemed to have infringed the broadcast reproduction right.

	20.11. Section 37 as aforesaid deals with the special right known as broadcast reproduction right. What is important to be noted here is that such a right is in respect of the "broadcast". Therefore, the reproduction right would emanate only in respect of a broadcast. Until and unless the broadcast does takes place in the manner as defined in the Act, there is no corresponding right over a broadcast reproduction. Sub clause 2 once again reiterates that such a right shall subsist from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the broadcast is made. 20.12. The broadcast reproduction right is a right ascribed to a broadcasting organisation being a special one. Such a right is controlled and circumscribed by Section 37 of the Act. This provision has to be seen in tune with the other provisions, which are specifically applicable under Section 39-A. As discussed earlier, most of the provisions, in fact, deal with the duty of the broadcasting organisation and the right, if any, could only be confined to the provisions applicable and not beyond. 20.13. There is absolutely no copyright or a broadcast reproduction right given independently to a television channel. Such a right is relatable and attributable to a "particular broadcast" alone. For example, it can be made applicable to a movie being a work and the programme as defined under the Act. In other words, the copyright does not recognise any specific right of television channel but it may become a broadcasting organisation, which can be restricted to a broadcast made. Hence, it is programme, work and thus broadcast centric. 20.14. To understand the position better, let us see Section 37 as it stood before at the time of Act 14 of 1957. 37. Broadcast reproduction right-- (1) Where any programme is broadcast [****] by the Government or any other broadcasting authority, a special right to be known as "broadcast reproduction right" shall subsist in such programme." 20.15. This section starts with the words "where any programme is broadcast". By the amendment, which stands as of now, the word "programme" has been taken out as against "broadcast". This is to give a wider coverage. Similarly, the words by radio, television were omitted in view of the subsequent technological development. The 
present amendment is also necessitated by the entry of private actors. 20.16. Section 37 is an unique piece of legislation and thus one of its kind. While it speaks about the right of a broadcasting organisation, it also controls the extent of it. Thus, Section 37 is a core provision, which exclusively deals with a broadcasting reproduction right. 20.17. Section 37 certainly comes into play only after the initial broadcast. Section 37(3) , in specific words speaks about the continuance of the broadcast reproduction right, in relation to any broadcast. Here again, the word "broadcast" assumes a significance along with "continuation". Sub clauses (a) to (d) create a deeming fiction towards infringement of the broadcast reproduction right. If we have a look at sub clauses (a) to (c) of Section 3 , they again speak about the reproduction of the broadcast being heard or seen by the public on payment of charges or making of sound recording. Thus, if one connects Section 37 with the definition section, accrue of a right is only after the initial broadcast takes place. After all, an interpretation has to be given on the understanding of the provisions and certainly not on a fact situation. Perhaps for violating right, if any, prior to the broadcast takes place, an organisation can seek the remedy in some other forum. But certainly that cannot be a factor to interpret the provisions otherwise. Therefore, on an analysis of Section 37 , it is imperative that a broadcast should take place by reaching public either actual or available. This thinking is also strengthened by the presence of Section 38 , which speaks about a performance right, which would also accrue when he actually does it which is importantly relatable to that performance alone. 20.18. Section 39-A deals with application of certain provisions in case of broadcast reproduction right. It does not speak about the general provisions, which are otherwise applicable to a copyright holder. Since broadcasting reproduction right is a special right, it does not take away the right of a copyright holder over a broadcasting organisation. Therefore, Section 39-A has to be understood to mean, protecting the rights of a copyright holder as against the organisation being a licensee. A purposive interpretation of this section along with the proviso coupled with the speech delivered by the Honourable Minister on the floor of the parliament would settle the issue. 20.19. Much has been said on the application of Section 33-A of the Act read with Rule 56, which deals with tariff scheme. On combined reading, it is primarily a right involving a copyright holder. Secondly, it deals with the nature and quantum of royalties. A society is supposed to collect the royalty from the licensee in advance under Rule 56((5) of the Rules. It acts and performs on behalf of the owner who in most of the cases is under a disadvantageous position. A window has been provided to a person aggrieved over the fixation of tariff. 20.20. Thus, on a conspectus of the above, there is no difficulty in holding that Copyright Act, 1957 , and the TRAI Act, 1997 , do stand apart in the respective arena. Their fields are distinct and separate. Under the Copyright Act , no third party is involved. There is no element of regulation. The TRAI Act is a sector specific Act. As airwaves is a public property, there is no overwhelming public interest under the Copyright Act unlike TRAI Act . 20.21. M/S JAK COMMUNICATIONS PVT. LTD., VS. M/S SUN TV NETWORK LIMITED AND ANOTHER ((2010) 2 Law Weekly 936). 31. It is also argued that in view of the TRAI Act , the provisions of the Copyright Act cannot be enforced. In the wake of the judgment of the Supreme Court, we cannot read both the Acts in that manner and come to a conclusion that the subsequent TRAI Act would take away the power of civil Court to entertain a suit filed for infringement of copyright. Both the Copyright Act as well as the TRAI Act operate in the respective field. Whereas the Copyright Act deals with the ownership of the copyright and in case of infringement of that right, to enable the copyright owner to approach the civil Court seeking for injunction and other remedies, the TRAI Act confines itself to the disputes between the parties enumerated under Section 14 of that Act. 33. While interpreting two inconsistent or obviously repugnant provisions of an Act, the Court should make an effort to so interpret the provisions as to harmonise them so that the purpose of the Act may be given effect to and both the provisions may be allowed to operate without rendering either of them redundant. 34. Interpretations are to be made to salvage a legislation to achieve its objective and not to let it fall merely because of a possible ingenious interpretation. It is also a settled position of law that where a provision is capable of one of two interpretations, the interpretation which validates rather than one which may invalidate a provision applies. 35. There might be some conflict between the rules and the provisions of the Act. There may also be a conflict sometimes between two Sections to be found in the same Act. In such circumstances, Courts have to try and reconcile them as best it may. If it cannot be done, the Courts have to determine which is the leading provision and which the subordinate provision and which must give way to the other. That would be so with regard to the enactment and with regard to rules which are to be treated as if within the enactment. Even if there be any conflict between the provisions, it is the duty of the court to harmonize the construction of statute. 36. As per the Rules of Statute and Interpretation as stated supra, in the event of conflict between the rules and provisions of the Act, Courts have to try and reconcile them at best it may and even if there be any conflict between the rules and provisions, it is the duty of the Court to put harmonious construction.

	20.22. M/S NOIDA SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY PARK LTD., V. M/S MEDIA PRO ENTERPRISE INDIA PVT. LTD., AND OTHERS (Petition No.295) (C) of 2014 dated 07.12.2017)

	20.23. The Telecom disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal by an order dated 07.12.2015 held as follows: (f) each broadcasting undertaking shall make maximum use, and in no case less than predominant use, of Canadian creative and other resources in the creation and presentation of programming, unless the nature of the service provided by the undertaking, such as specialized content or format or the use of languages other than French and English, renders that use impracticable, in which case the undertaking shall make the greatest practicable use of those resources; ......................................... (s) private networks and programming undertakings should, to an extent consistent with the financial and other resources available to them, (i) contribute significantly to the creation and presentation of Canadian programming, and (ii) be responsive to the evolving demands of the public; and (t) distribution undertakings (i) should give priority to the carriage of Canadian programming services and, in particular, to the carriage of local Canadian stations,
.............................................................................. (iii) should, where programming services are supplied to them by broadcasting undertakings pursuant to contractual arrangements, provide reasonable terms for the carriage, packaging and retailing of those programming services." 20.29. Sections 9 and 10 deal with the powers and functions of the Commission inclusive of a power to make regulations. They are as under: (b)prescribing what constitutes a Canadian program for the purposes of this Act; (c)respecting standards of programs and the allocation of broadcasting time for the purpose of giving effect to the broadcasting policy set out in subsection 3(1); (d)respecting the character of advertising and the amount of broadcasting time that may be devoted to advertising; (e)respecting the proportion of time that may be devoted to the broadcasting of programs, including advertisements or announcements, of a partisan political character and the assignment of that time on an equitable basis to political parties and candidates; (f)prescribing the conditions for the operation of programming undertakings as part of a network and fo9r the broadcasting of network programs, and respecting the broadcasting times to be reserved for network programs by any such undertakings; (g)respecting the carriage of any foreign or other programming services by distribution undertakings; (h)for resolving, by way of mediation or otherwise, any disputes arising between programming undertakings and distribution undertakings concerning the carriage of 

programming originated by the programming undertakings; (i)requiring licensees to submit to the Commission such information regarding their programs and financial affairs or otherwise relating to the conduct and management of their affairs as the regulations may specify; (j)respecting the audit or examination of the records and books of account of licensees by the Commission or persons acting on behalf of the Commission; and (k)respecting such other matters as it deems necessary for the furtherance of its objects; 20.30. By a majority decision, it was held that the Act mainly deals with protecting and enhancing the cultural aspect. Section 3(1) merely deals with declaration of a policy and therefore cannot be provided with an independent grant of power. Section 3(1) is also to be seen in the light of intendment. The subject matter of the regulation cannot be traced to section 9 and 10 . Thus the regulation ultra vires the Act. 20.31. The second issue is with respect to the infringement of the provisions of the Copyright Act . Section 21(1) of the Act deals with limited rights of a copyright holder with a communication signal that it broadcasts. Such a right is also subject to the one available under Section 31(1) in favour of "retransmitter", who can be called for our purpose as a distributor. The aforesaid provisions are hereunder: 31(1) In this section,
"new media retransmitter" means a person whose retransmission is lawful under the Broadcasting Act only by reason of the Exemption Order for New Media Broadcasting Undertakings issued by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission as Appendix A to Public Notice CRTC 1997-197, as amended from time to time; 20.32. On this, it was held that the right which is otherwise enured in favour of the retransmitter/distributor cannot be taken away through a regulation by CRTC under the Broadcasting Act. Both these reasons were not agreed upon in the dissenting decision. 20.33. Though in the first blush it might appear as if the same rationale may well be applied to the case on hand, it is not so. The Canadian Supreme Court proceeded on the footing that there is an element of public interest in the Copyright Act as against the Broadcasting Act. The position is totally different before us. It is rather otherwise. The aforesaid decision has been rendered on the basis of provisions contained therein and thus has no application to our case. If there is a public interest in a lis between two parties, be it a copyright owner on one hand and the licensee on the other hand, the same cannot become a social or welfare legislation. There is a difference between an Act which is meant to protect and enhance the rights of the general public and the one which upholds the interest of one group of persons which might lead to an element of fairness. Providing a level playing field and creating an element of fairness is different from a welfare legislation. The power conferred under the TRAI Act as discussed at length is sufficient enough to cover the present Regulations and Tariff Order. The Canadian judgment also throws light on one important issue. Once again it deals with the broadcasting of only a "programme". Secondly the regulation therein was meant to act between a broadcaster and a distributor by regularising the power available under the Act. It is to be noted that such a regulation passed providing road map for the inter se relationship between the broadcaster and the distributor has already been upheld by the Court in our case. There is no BRR involved in the copyright in Canada. The Court also gave a finding that the activity sought to be introduced is governed and controlled by the Copyright Act , a situation totally non-existent before us. The dispute before the Canadian Court was between the broadcasters and the distributors. Therefore, the interest of the subscriber was never a point for consideration. There is no repository of source under our Copyright Act . It is only available with the TRAI Act . Hence, in the considered view of this Court, the aforesaid decision is to be seen in its own context. 21. INDIAN TELEGRAPH ACT, 1885. 21.1. This enactment is of vintage - origin having crossed a century and a quarter. The deficiency in this enactment has in fact broughtforth the TRAI Act, 1997 . As held by the Courts, the provisions of this Act will have to be read in consonance with the TRAI Act , which is also indicated in Section 2(2) and 38 . Part II deals with the privileges and powers of the Government. As per Section 4 , exclusive privilege to grant licence lies with the Central Government. Without a licence or a permission under this section, one would not become eligible and entitle to use the airwaves. Such an entity will not come under the purview of the TRAI Act as the very right to use airwaves would get lost. When once a permission has been obtained, which is traceable to Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, a status of the licensee under Section 2(e) of the TRAI Act comes into being. Section 4 is the sole provision, which enables the Central Government to part with this exclusive privilege to a third party to deal with the work under telegraph or telecommunication service. This aspect has been dealt with in extenso in SECRETARY OF MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING VS. CRICKET ASSOCIATION OF BENGAL ((1995) 2 Supreme Court Cases 161) referred supra. Section 4 not only govern a broadcasting organisation, but also a DTH operator being the distributor. It is to be noted that rules have been framed for the usage of airwaves frequencies and spectrum. Suffice it is to state that no more interpretation is required on the scope of Section 4 since the first petitioner itself took a plea before the Tribunal in STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED VS. BSNL that it is service provider within the meaning of TRAI Act and accordingly, it was held that any permission granted by any Ministry to a broadcaster is to be construed as a licence within the meaning of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 . BHARTI AIRTEL LTD., V. UNION OF INDIA ((2015) 12 Supreme Court Cases 1). 21.2. The discussion made in the petitioner's case - STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED VS. TELECOM REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA AND OTHERS ((2008) 146 DLT 455) (paragraph 19) referred supra also requires to be taken note of. 21.3. Thus, the contention on the restrictive scope of Telegraph Act does not hold water in the teeth of the specific provisions contained in Section 6A which provides sufficient authority to fix the rates, messages and fix other conditions. 21.4. Both these enactments viz., TRAI Act, 1997 and the Indian Telegraph Act,1885 are to be read together and even dehors. 22. CABLE TV NETWORKS (REGULATION) ACT, 1995
	22.1. This Act was also introduced using power conferred by the constitution along with the field of legislation as in the case of the TRAI Act, 1997 . It was meant to control and regulate Cable Television Network. Thus, it should be kept in mind the specific object of this enactment. The definition section defines an authority, which is none other than the fourth respondent viz., TRAI Act . A broadcaster has been defined as the one who provides the programme service. Incidentally, the words programme and programming service have also been defined. However, it is interesting to note that this definition of programme has been made to mean any television broadcast. It also makes clear, the scope and ambit of the enactment. 22.2. Section 4-A of the Act deals with transmission of programme through digital addressable systems. This came into being with effect from 25.10.2011 by taking note of the technological development. The usage of set top box has been taken note of under this section through the explanation. This section also defines expression encrypted and unencrypted apart from free to air channel and pay channels. The Act also seeks to regulate the programme code and the developments code. Thus, this Act has also to be read along with the TRAI Act . It only helps TRAI Act through its provisions. Rule 10 was substituted by GSR940(E) dated 28.04.2012. Rule 10 as it stands before the amendment. This present rule after substitution. 22.3. This rule was amended to bring out more power to the authority. Difficulties are faced on the application of the tariff order as it existed at the relevant point of time to the cable services in the notified areas. This was because of the existence of the then Rule 10. Accordingly, confusion was likely to be created in defining retail price as well as wholesale price of a channel in a notified area. Thus, it was decided to extend the tariff dispensation in the then tariff order to the cable services in a conditional access system notified area(cs). This was dealt with in the explanatory memorandum appended to the tariff order. The learned counsel for TRAI furnished the communications leading to the amendment to the Court. Objections have been raised to the effect that they were not accepted even during the earlier hearing. Be that as it may, there is nothing to contradict the conclusion arrived at in the explanatory memorandum leading to the rationale behind the amendment. The relevant passage is fruitfully extracted. III Applicability to the notified CAS areas: Therefore, Rule 10 as it stands today cannot be interpreted as the petitioners seek, for the aforesaid reason. It also cannot be construed to abdicate the power to the copyright Act in pursuant to its subsequent amendment. There is no comparison whatsoever between the two enactments, which do not have the remotest connection or overlapping in their field of operation. This aspect has also been taken note of by the Tribunal in M/S NOIDA SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY PARK LTD., VS. M/S MEDIA PRO ENTERPRISE INDIA PVT LTD., AND OTHERS (Petition No.295(C) of 2014 dated 07.12.2017). 22.4. It is pertinent to note that the petitioner was also a party before the aforesaid proceedings. In fact, in the said decision , the earlier decision of the Division Bench of Delhi High Court in the writ petition filed by the petitioner was taken note of. Accordingly, paragraph 19 of the aforesaid judgment was quoted with approval, which is as under. 22.5. It was further held by relying upon the earlier Tribunals order that both the TRAI Act and Cable TV Net Works(Regulation) Act, 1995, do have the power to regulate the broadcasting service. A fruitful extraction of the following relevant paragraph is hereunder. The Tribunal, referring to Section 11(2) of the TRAI Act negated the submissions and held that the legislative intent was clear and it recognized the need to regulate the broadcasting service. The Tribunal then dealt with the broadcasters' challenge to the SIA, which, unlike RIO that is framed by the broadcaster itself, was statutorily prescribed and was thus clearly far more stringent than the provisions under consideration in this case. The SIA was challenged on the ground that it infringed the broadcasters' freedom of contract. Rejecting the submission the Tribunal held: 22.6. Submissions have been made by placing reliance upon other enactments by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the fourth respondent, such as, Sports, Broadcasting Signals (Mandatory) sharing with Prasar Bharati Act, 2007. This Court is not willing to borrow the provisions contained therein. Though an objection has been raised by the learned Senior Counsels appearing for the petitioners that the said Act does deal with the content, suffice it is to state that the entry is one and the same. Therefore, the contentions that entry 31 of list 1 of VII Schedule does not deal with content has no basis. However, we need not proceed further since the impugned regulation itself reiterates the very same definition provisions ipso facto. Thus, on a detailed analysis of the provisions contained in the enactments other than the TRAI Act, 1997 , one cannot hold that there exists any conflict, overlapping either incidental or direct and the field being occupied as against the TRAI Act , which has got a specific role to play. These enactments can at best be stated to sail along with the TRAI Act . 23. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PETITIONERS: 24.1. The learned Senior counsels appearing for the respondents submitted that there is sufficient power available under the TRAI Act to pass the impugned proceedings. The impugned proceedings cannot be termed as regulating the content for which the power is also otherwise available. The counter affidavit filed has to be seen in the context of the challenge made to the impugned Regulations and Tariff Order. It cannot be read in isolation. The power conferred under Sections, 11 , 12 and 13 read with Section 36 of the TRAI Act is rather wide and exhaustive. 24.2. The other enactments are to be seen as assisting the TRAI Act excluding the copyright which deals with a different aspect altogether. There is no right recognised under the Copyright Act in favour of the TV Channel. Rule 10 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 , has been wrongly construed. In any case, the power conferred cannot be transported through the amendment made to the Copyright Act, 1957 . In the lead judgment, it has been proceeded on the wrong factual premise that bouquets are market driven. They are nothing but creation of broadcasters. The TRAI Act deals with different actors with specific emphasis on public interest. Merely because the petitioners are affected, it cannot be said that content is involved. The TRAI Act and the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 deal with the same entry. There is no challenge to the provision of the TRAI Act . The lead decision does not consider the scope of TRAI Act in the right perspective. There is no basis indicated on the conclusion that the content is involved. The decision rendered in PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS REGULATORY BOARD V. INDRAPRASTHA GAS LIMITED AND OTHERS (2015) 9 Supreme Court Cases, 209) has to be seen contextually. Similarly, the decision relied upon by the petitioners in ESPN STAR SPORTS V. GLOBAL BROADCAST NEWS LTD. , (2008) (38) PTC 477 (DEL.) (DB) cannot be understood to hold that Section 37 of the Copyright Act protects a television channel. Accordingly while rejecting the lead judgment, dissenting one has to be concurred with. 25. DISCUSSION ON SUBMISSIONS: 4(b)............. However, it is crucial to note that writ petitioners have made it clear that their challenge to the impugned clauses in the said regulations and said tariff order is not a challenge on merits and that it is only a challenge to the jurisdiction of the TRAI to come up with said regulations and said tariff order. 4(c)Such a challenge to the jurisdiction of TRAI is predicated on one core issue and that one core issue is that the jurisdiction of TRAI to regulate and fix tariff is limited to carriage or 'means of transmission' and therefore it cannot be extended to 'content' which according to the writ petitioners is completely and comprehensively governed by the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957) as amended with effect from 21.6.2012, which is hereinafter referred to as ' Copyright Act ' for convenience and clarity. 6(g) .............The third reason is all parties to the lis agreed to the aforesaid 18 clauses being treated as impugned clauses and all parties agreed that the scope of the writ petitions shall be to test the constitutional validity and vires qua TRAI Act of the aforesaid 18 clauses contained in two tables. 6(h) To be noted, Dr.Abhishek Singhvi, learned Senior counsel leading the counsel on record for the other writ petitioner also submitted that the aforesaid 18 clauses in said regulations and said tariff order and challenge to their constitutional validity and vires qua TRAI Act shall be the scope of the writ petition, in his matter too. 6(i) Submissions of writ petitioners can be broadly summarised in simplified terms as follows : 25.3. Section 2(k) of the TRAI Act merely explains a telecommunication service. Therefore, even assuming it can be divided into three parts as suggested by the learned counsel for the petitioners, the conclusion does not change as discussed supra. The TRAI Act does not deal with a mere means of transmission alone. Perhaps the petitioners do understand it rather well. That is the reason why they laid the challenge before the Division Bench of Delhi High Court to the very provision. The principle governing the noscitur a sociis cannot be applied as the petitioner suggested. There is no ambiguity on the definition provision. 25.4. The power conferred on the authority under Sections 11 to 13 has already been considered on quite a few occasions by the Courts. Nothing more is required to be added in the light of the discussions made already. If the contentions of the petitioners are accepted, the very provision contained under Section 11(2) would become redundant and otiose, notwithstanding a challenge in futility made before the Delhi High Court on the constitution validity of Section 11(2) is much to the knowledge of the petitioners. 25.5. Notably, tariff orders of similar nature were being introduced from time to time from the year 2004 onwards. Power to make regulation has been provided under Section 36 . The Courts have interpreted with such a power as pervasive notwithstanding the other provisions. To be noted, the notification No.39 has also not been challenged by the petitioners while challenging the proviso to Section 2(1)(k) . This notification has also added additional power to the fourth respondent. To sum up, the TRAI Act being a centripetal, sector specific one, involving the utilisation of the public property, having a regulatory regime and to protect the public interest stands on its distinct footing. 25.6. As rightly submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents, the permission obtained from the Central Government would bring a broadcaster within the fold of a service provider. The petitioners themselves claimed and raised disputes as service providers. A finding was also rendered by the Court which reached finality. Thus, as a natural sequitor, the Regulations and Tariff Order would ipso facto apply to the petitioners' case. 25.7. The other enactments certainly strengthen the hands of the TRAI. Suffice it is to state that these enactments viz., Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 , except the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 , have nothing to do with the Copyright Act, 1957 . Rule 10 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Rules, 1994, as it stands today strengthens the authority to deal with the difficulties faced in implementing a uniform system, including the notified areas. There is nothing to contradict the detailed analysis made, in the explanatory memorandum in this regard. In any case, such a power cannot be imported into the amendment of the year 2012 of the Copyright Act , which obviously deals with a different scenario. 25.8. We have also discussed at length on the interpretation and meaning of the provision contained in the Copyright Act . The submissions made by the learned Senior Counsels for the petitioners that a broadcast takes place a moment of uplinking and downlinking, which is certainly contrary to the Copyright Act . Any such interpretation would directly violate the provisions including the definition section contained under Section 2(dd) and 2(ff) of the Act. We may note that an encrypted form being a facet of cryptography involves secret writing and code. 25.9. The other provisions actually give sufficient protection to the copyright holder as against the licensee which may be the broadcaster having broadcasting reproduction right. The scheme of the Act read with the parliamentary debate and discussion with reference to the specific speech of the Honourable Minister for Information and Broadcasting makes the position very clear. 25.10. Sections 37 and 39 also will not help the case of the petitioners. While there is no BRR involved under the TRAI Act , no right has been given to a television channel under Section 37 of the Copyright Act. Merely because, the television channel becomes a broadcaster, no independent right can be placed as against the broadcasting which may involve any work or a programme coming under the Act's purview. In this connection, the definition of TV Channel as adumbrated in the impugned regulations will have to be seen. While the copyright does not make any reference to a TV Channel, it has been referred accordingly as such, only after obtaining permission for downlinking under the impugned regulations. Therefore, the TV channel has been understood in a very restrictive manner under the impugned regulations. Needless to state that the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 , also deals with the television channel as against the Copyright Act . 25.11. This Court is of the considered view that having drawn the lines and fixed the goal post with the agreement of the parties, the issue as to whether the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order deal with a content or a carriage as understood by the petitioners is irrelevant. That the petitioners are affected by the impugned Regulations and Tariff Order is not in doubt. Therefore, the question which is appropriate shall be the existence of the power under the TRAI Act vis a vis the Copyright Act, 1957 . Hence, the question of carriage or content has to be seen contextually through the enactments along with their objects. It is also to be seen under the TRAI Act from the point of view of the end user. 25.12. Since the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners repeatedly insisted to go into the said issue, it is reluctantly touched upon. A content has to be seen in the programme and not the channel. Merely identifying or categorising a channel either in a group or stand alone would not amount to interference in content. What is involved here is the reach of a particular channel in a specific way or mode, giving several options to choose qua a subscriber. A content in a programme is different from that of the channel. There is absolutely nothing to hold that the content in a broadcast or a programme is interfered with. Similarly, the content of a channel is absolutely preserved and taken as such. For example, a movie to be telecasted is not interfered with and so also the nature. It is nothing but an attempt to stop an unilateral thrust of unwarranted dust along with grain. Suffice it is to state that there is sufficient and ample power for the creation of the impugned Regulations and the Tariff Order under the TRAI Act . 25.13. On considering the submissions and perusal of the documents an admitted fact can be seen. The petitioners though admitted and accepted several suggestions made by the TRAI during the consultation process, nonetheless for the reasons known, have challenged them. In specific terms, they have stated the following facts. * TRAI must undertake a comprehensive review of the interconnect regulations, quality of service regulations etc.
* Transparent and non-discriminatory principles across all distribution platforms. *TRAI must regulate price caps for mass genres like entertainment, movies & sports  Contrary to this, now after price forbearance given in respect of TV channels, the petitioners have performed a spectacular U-turn and are raising frivolous concerns regarding high cost of acquisition of content. *The wholesale price cap must be fixed by TRAI at Rs.28/- to monetize flagship channel(hence, this concept of flagship 

channel, driver channel etc was understood and described by the petitioner -during the course of the hearing however, they feigned ignorance)
* Transparency in Discounts
*Wholesale cap tobe fixed on discounts at a maximum overall cap of 33%
* Conditions to regulate bouquets
*Maximum discount on multi-broadcaster retail bouquet to be capped at 33%

	25.14. They have also requested the bundling of HD and SD channels not to be allowed. This could be seen from the following statement made by them before TRAI as recorded under the consideration paper dated 29.02.2016.  3.Bundling of HD and SD channels should not be allowed,both at wholesale and retail leves; 4. Charging of access fee for HD channels should not be allowed at retail level; 5.DPOs free to sell HD channels as a-la-care as well as bouquet(s) of HD channels; 6.Consumers and DPOs should have a choice to subscribe to only HD Channels or only SD channels or both combined but purchased separately. 

	25.15. Thus a party, who approbates and reprobates should not be shown any indulgence by the Court. Certainly, the law governing "issue estoppel" would also come into play. It also applies to the declaration made by the Court on the basis of the stand taken by the petitioners that it is a service provider under the TRAI Act . 25.16. Now let us see the decision relied upon by the learned counsels appearing for the petitioners. In PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS REGULATORY BOARD V. INDRAPRASTHA GAS LIMITED AND OTHERS (2015) 9 Supreme Court Cases, 209), the issue was with reference to the determination of network tariff and compression charges. A challenge was laid on the legislative competency. The Apex Court while considering the relevant provision viz., Sections 21 and 22 read with Section 11 , which speaks of power and functions of the Board, held that there is no legislative intent apart from lack of jurisdiction. Accordingly, it was held that the operative words to Section 22 which dealt with only transportation tariff is subject to Section 11 , which does not provide such a power to the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board. Clearly the facts herein are totally different. There is no opening words as available in Section 22 of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board, 1956 nor Section 11 of the Act is pari materia to Section 11 , which we are concerned with. The scope, provision and object of the enactments are also different. Therefore, on the settled principle of law that a decision is only an authority for what it decides and therefore, cannot be treated like a statute, it is accordingly held that the same has got no application. 25.17. ESPN STAR SPORTS V. GLOBAL BROADCAST NEWS LTD. , (2008) (38) PTC 477 (DEL.)
 Furthermore, under Section 37 of the Act, broadcast reproduction right has been defined as a special right available to every broadcasting organization qua its broadcasts. The term "broadcast" has been separately defined under Section 2(dd) , as a communication to the public. It is thus evident that there could be both copyright and broadcasting reproduction right which could separately co-exist. As an example the copyright of cinematography film being broadcast on a satellite channel vests with the producer of the film whereas the broadcast reproduction right for the same vests with the broadcaster channel itself. The recording of such movie and unauthorized re-telecast by cable operators could thus result in violation of two separate rights. The first being the copyright which vests with the producer and second the broadcast reproduction right which vests with the broadcaster channel. These rights may vest with two different persons or even with the single person which is evident from the Act. Section 51 of the Copyright Act deals with acts constituting infringement of a copyright and Section 37(3) separately deals with acts constituting infringement of broadcast reproduction rights. Emphasis have been placed upon Section 39-A which provides that Sections 18 , 19 , 30 , 53, 55, 58, 64, 65 and 66 shall with any necessary adaptations and modifications apply in relation to the Broadcast reproduction right in any broadcast. This clearly showed the legislative intent as to which provision of the Act would apply to both copyright and also broadcast reproduction right and by necessary implication Sections not so specifically provided would not ipso facto apply to the broadcast reproduction right. Sections 13 and 14 of the Copyright Act make it clear that copyright will subsist only in 'work' and that does not include 'broadcast'. This clearly demonstrates that the broadcast rights particularly in respect of telecast of live events are separate and distinct from copyright available in Chapter XII of the Act . The definition of 'broadcast' under Section 2(dd) and the definition of 'communication to the public' under Section 2(ff) of the Act further emphasize the fact that Section 61 is not applicable to the proceeding for infringement of Broadcasting Reproduction Right and that application of Section 61 is limited to the cases where an exclusive licensee of a copyright institutes a suit or proceeding for infringement of copyright.

	25.18. The aforesaid paragraph does not recognise a separate right of television channel under Section 37 of the Copyright Act. On the contrary, it clearly states that the copyright and broadcasting reproduction right would separately co-exist. The Court was merely dealing with the scope and extent of the power under Section 37 . In other words, there is no express recognition of a right qua a television channel as against a broadcaster. Such a right is obviously confined to the broadcast made. At the cost of repetition, it has to be reiterated that Section 37 is broadcast centric and not television. 25.19. The three decisions relied upon by the Shri Dr. Abhishek Singhvi, also cannot help the case of the petitioners. They are dealing with a fact situation involving two private parties qua an analogue - non addressable system. Secondly, it does not involve either TRAI or the element of public interest. Thirdly, the broadcast did take place which certainly gives right to a broadcaster. Therefore, this judgment cannot be pressed into service to hold that a BRR will have to be extended even before a broadcast takes place. After all, as discussed in length already, it does take place only when it results in the communication to the public as defined under Section 2 (ff) of the Copyright Act, 1957. Thus, the aforesaid judgments do not help. 25.20. From the above discussions, the contentions raised by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners are accordingly rejected. Consequently the issues are answered against the petitioners. 26. LEAD JUDGMENT:- 27.1.In her short, yet clear decision, the Hon'ble Chief Justice has held that there is sufficiency of the power under the TRAI Act as against the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 . They travel in their respective paths, not intended to cross. The scope of the amendments made in the year 2012 along with Section 37 was correctly dealt with. This Court is of the view that the Copyright Act has rightly taken note of being the one which gives succour to the copyright holder as against the licensee,who may also be a BRR holder. It was rightly held that the provisions deal with the protection of the right of the copyright holder. It is rather pertinent to keep in mind the discussion on the Copyright Act, 1957 , which is to be seen contextually qua the issue i.e.,field being occupied. This Court also does not find anything wrong with the finding given on the so called concession given by the learned counsel for the TRAI being inconsequential, as the very jurisdiction of the Act itself was taken for consideration. The finding has to be seen contextually along with the other issues including the overall stand taken in the counter affidavit of respondents 1 to 4. Similarly the self imposed restrictions while invoking the extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, deserves to be concurred with. 27.2. Though a submission has been made on the decision arrived at with respect to the fixation of cap at 15% discount on the MRP of the bouquet and the discounts given under the tariff order, the aforesaid decision cannot be a ground to hold that the ultimate conclusion arrived at on the other issues would necessarily follow suit. After all, as a reference Court, this Court is concerned with the views expressed by either of the learned Judges on the points of difference. Accordingly, the dissenting judgment stands concurred. 28. In the result, this reference qua points of difference stands ordered concurring with the dissenting judgment. No costs. 23.05.2018
Index:Yes/No
Note:issue order copy on 25.05.2018
raa

To 1.Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion,
 Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
 Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi-110 011. 2.The Secretary,
 Department of Telecommunications,
 Ministry of Communications,
 Sanchar Bhawan, Ashoka Road,
 New Delhi-110 001. 3.The Secretary,
 Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,
 Room No.655, A Wing Shastri Bhawan,
 New Delhi-110 001. 4.Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,
 Mahanagar Doorsanchar Bhawan,
 Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg,
 (Old Minto Road), New Delhi-110 002. M.M.SUNDRESH, J. raa

Pre-delivery Common Order in
 W.P.Nos.44126 & 44127 of 2016

									23.05.2018

			W.P.Nos.44126 & 44127 of 2016

M.M.SUNDRESH,J. After pronouncing orders, Shri Sathish Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel representing the petitioners, sought for suspension for a period of four weeks to approach the Apex Court. 2. On instruction, Shri Wilson, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the TRAI, fairly submitted that status quo as on today shall be maintained for a period of two weeks. 3. The statement made by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the TRAI stands recorded. 23.05.2018
raa

 								 M.M.SUNDRESH, J. raa

 W.P.Nos.44126 & 44127 of 2016

									23.05.2018