The Editors Guild of India (EGI) has written to the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), urging the Ministry to provide an exemption to the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes from the application of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDPA). The EGI has flagged specific ways in which consent-related requirements and obligations for data fiduciaries (or entities processing people’s data) in the DPDPA would, in effect, hamper journalistic activities.

EGI has submitted a representation on the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, to @GoI_MeitY , Concerns include the absence of exemptions for journalistic activities and the implied need for consent for process any personal data in the course of news reporting. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/NZGKufAL41

— Editors Guild of India (@IndEditorsGuild) February 18, 2024

“We request that the Ministry provide a class exemption to data fiduciaries undertaking processing for journalistic purposes under section 17(5) of the DPDPA for as long as such purposes subsist. Such an exemption is particularly justified given that the absence of such a carve-out will have a necessarily adverse impact on the right to freedom of speech and expression, and the right of journalists to carry on their occupation,” the letter noted.

Section 17 (5) of the DPDPA allows the government to exempt a data fiduciary or a class of data fiduciaries from any provision of the DPDPA for a specified period through a notification, before the expiry of five years from the date of commencement of the Act.

Why does it matter? The Guild has shed light on the impact of certain provisions of the DPDPA on journalism, which in turn, affect fundamental rights of the citizens such as the right to access information under Article 19(1)(a) and the freedom of journalists to practice their profession under Article 19(1)(g) of the Indian Constitution. As highlighted in the letter, if journalists are required to fulfill obligations for processing personal data, which is a part of their daily operations, it will ‘disrupt journalistic reporting’, thereby limiting the citizens’ right to receive information. Given the potential implications on the functioning of the media, the concerns raised by the EGI deserve attention.

Under the DPDPA, obtaining consent of the data principal or an individual is a prerequisite to processing personal data of such persons, except for legitimate uses such as employment purposes, medical emergencies, or certain government-related services. These legitimate use cases, specified under Section 7 of the Act, may not cover processing personal data for journalistic activities.

Under Section 7(a), journalists can use data voluntarily provided by the data principals, in cases such as interviews, collecting responses through questionnaires, etc. However, for other forms of journalism involving critical investigative stories, general news reporting, opinion pieces, features, analysis, etc., journalists are largely dependent on private research, study, investigation, etc., which the Guild noted is ‘remarkably absent in the current list of legitimate uses’. Further, the requirement also means that journalists have to invariably rely upon consent to carry out their operations.

The DPDPA lists out specific obligations for data fiduciaries, such as providing notice for consent to the individual, enabling withdrawal of consent, and processing personal data only for specific purposes for which consent is obtained, among others.

Specifying the purpose goes against the nature of investigative journalism:

According to the EGI, notifying data principals about the purpose of processing prior to or at the time of seeking consent is not feasible for journalists or media organizations. In the case of investigative reporting, the Guild noted, this may even defeat the purpose of undertaking such processing.

The letter explained, “Obtaining consent (including obtaining verifiable consent from the parent or lawful guardian of a child or a person with a disability) presents similar problems. For instance, when a journalist is investigating the parties involved in a fraudulent/Ponzi scheme, reporting on road accidents in a particular city, or publishing information about the achievement of an individual who is a resident of another city, the requirement to provide notice and obtain consent would not only be impractical or infeasible but will likely defeat the purpose of the journalistic endeavor, by causing inordinate delay or impeding the journalist from publishing the news report itself.”

Similarly, requiring journalists to process information only for specified purposes is a challenge that may obstruct research and activities that may uncover new leads or information. The Guild noted that it would be “impractical” for journalists to specify “in exact terms” the purposes for which the personal data is being collected at a nascent stage and “unreasonably restrain journalists from fulfilling their professional activities”.

Withdrawal of consent may jeopardise the authenticity of a published article:

The DPDPA mandate to delete personal data when a data principal has withdrawn their consent, unless data retention is necessary for compliance with any other law, would require journalists to even delete notes from their reportage that may contain personal data. “In the absence of a requirement to retain this personal data, journalists will be left with no option but to cease processing (which includes storage) and ultimately erase such personal data, making post-facto validation of a news report or article impossible,” the letter informed.

Government’s powers to seek any information:

Under Section 36 of the DPDPA, the government may require the Board and any Data Fiduciary or intermediary to furnish such information as it may call for. The Guild has flagged concerns that this provision may endanger the confidentiality with which journalists function in order to protect their sources, particularly for sensitive information. The provision may deter potential informants from coming forward with necessary information for fear of their anonymity being compromised, thereby having a wide-ranging impact on journalism at large.

The Guild pointed out that the Press Council of India (PCI), established under the Press Council Act, 1978, and the Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards released by the News Broadcasters and Digital Association outline journalistic codes of conduct, which provide sufficient safeguards for processing personal data for journalistic activities.

For example, the Guild highlighted that the PCI prohibits journalists from invading the privacy of an individual unless it is necessary for an ‘overriding public interest’, tape-recording conversations without the person’s consent, obtaining consent from parents in the case of a minor, and refraining from publishing inaccurate information, among other rules, which come with exceptions related to public interest.

The letter stated that having a second framework for the same processing activities will impose additional compliance burdens on journalists and hinder free speech and expression. Outlining specific provisions from previous iterations of the data protection bill that exempted journalists from certain obligations, the Guild called for an exemption under Section 17(5) of the DPDPA.

“An exemption may be necessary to stop the harassment of journalists by inundating them with requests with the aim of blocking or slowing down the investigation or publishing of a piece of news. The financial and human resource implications of compliance with such requests will also frustrate journalistic activity, especially in the case of independent journalists,” the letter noted.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event