SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The Culture Shock of India's Call Centers
DATE: 2017-06-01
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6eobjb/the_culture_shock_of_indias_call_centers/

--- POST TEXT ---

Five students in business casual and the two authors in board shorts were crammed into a small classroom in Southern Bangalore.  It was one of those cubicle classrooms, surrounded by three just like it, with a small whiteboard on one end and the teacher sitting at a desk on the other.  You could see into the other empty classrooms through the matrix of windows that formed walls around them, supported by bright orange metal framing. Three students slouched wearily in their seats on one side; they barely spoke enough English to understand the teacher. The other two sat opposite, more attentive, pens poised over notepads half full with scribbles. The teacher was glaring at the weary ones. 
 
“But sir...” 
 
“No! I want you to speak without it. Close the book Sajar!” 
 
Sajar was clearly at a loss for what to do. He glanced at his notebook hesitantly. 
 
“I said close the damned book!” 
 
The student looked at his teacher pleadingly, searching for sympathy but finding only a scowl. He closed the front of his notebook nervously. Deep could be intimidating. 
 
“Good --” said Deep. “Now, recite two sentences from what you had written.” 
 
The student kept his head bent down in silence. 
 
“No? How about one sentence? Just ONE sentence Sajar!” 
 
More silence. 
 
The teacher’s voice turned soft with contempt. “See, once the book is closed you’re dumb. Ab-so-lut-ely dumbstruck.” 
 
Deep whirled around and faced the remainder of his call center training class, all of whom were hoping to get jobs working in one of Bangalore’s customer service centers. His sweeping gaze settled upon his favorite student. 
 
“Krishna – Go.” 
 
Called to attention, a gangly Indian quickly straightened up in his seat and placed his hands, neatly folded, upon his desk. He was easily the best dressed student in the class, striped button down shirt and pleated slacks riding above a pair of conspicuously polished leather shoes. Krishna drew in a sharp breath, and cleared his voice. 
 
“Good morning friends. Thank you all for giving me the opportunity to speak to you this morning on the topic of killing the girl child…” he recited in the singsong voice of memorization. 
 
In what was supposed to be a spontaneous discussion about female infanticide in India, Krishna’s delivery was every bit as scripted as whatever Sajar had written in his notebook. But the teacher, Deep, didn’t seem to mind. At least Krishna had bothered to commit his words to memory. Krishna was the star student, who always came to class prepared. He had more pressure than most to land a job at a call center. 
 
Krishna Shah is 30 years old and unmarried. To a conservative Indian family like his, that combination is unacceptable. The South Indian comes from a culture where expectations are that men marry by the time they are 25. But in India, one of the requisites of the desirable bachelor is a respectable job, and Krishna hasn’t been able to land one. Though he spent years working abroad in Dubai for a graphic design firm, he hasn’t been able to transfer that experience back into a job at home. Now, Krishna is anxious to settle down and start a family, pressured by the rumors circulating among his village 40 kilometers south of Mysore. 
 
“My family and friends will speak fine when they’re in front of me, but as soon as I go away, they backstab me like anything,” he revealed during one of our class breaks, referring to gossip around the dining room table when he isn’t home. 
 
Krishna thinks that a job at a call center is the key to tying the knot. In India, the customer service jobs are known to be respectable and well-paying, enough to give Krishna the income, and the title, to become a suitable bachelor. While a typical wage earner earns 5,000 rupees a month, a call center employee takes in as much as 15,000 rupees (300 dollars). 
 
The bachelor enrolled in the four month call center training course at Orion Edutech after hearing about it from a friend in Bangalore, and his parents agreed to heft the 45,000 rupee bill (900 dollars). Located on the third floor of a nondescript office building in Bangalore’s Jayanagar district, Orion is an Indian equivalent to American vocational schools like ITT Tech or Devry University. There are over 100 Orion campuses across India, and the private courses are popular among prospective call center applicants in India as a resume booster to give them a competitive edge in the hiring process. 
 
As long as your accent is good, it’s not that hard to get a job on the floor, because of the high burnout rate and booming industry.  There are over 265,000 BPO jobs in Bangalore alone, of which call center positions represent a sizable proportion. BPO is the buzzword form of business process outsourcing – the trend of multinational companies like Microsoft to base services or entire departments in India, and which has been causing dire headlines in the United States about jobs shipped overseas since the early 2000’s. Indeed, the effects of the industry’s growth in India are easy to see. India’s ‘garden city’ is surrounded by gated tech campuses like Wipro and Infosys that rival the size and splendor of those in the Silicon Valley, complete with cappuccino bars, movie theatres, and golf cart lanes. 
 
Many, like Krishna, want in on a piece of the action, and private courses like Orion’s promise to help by teaching Western cultural mannerisms. The courses also claim to help boost English proficiency and conversational skills. 
 
That was how we ended up in the back of Deep’s classroom. Orion had let us sit in on a few sessions in return for our participation in cultural discussions and accent training. 
 
“Chris, Morgan, I want to hear about your thoughts, on killing the girl child.” 
 
Every student in the classroom leaned a little further over their desks and looked at us expectantly. 
 
Morgan began to speak about the injustices of infanticide, and Deep interjected excitedly. “Class, I want you to listen carefully to how he is pronouncing his R’s!“ Krishna started furiously scribbling down notes. 
 
A primary goal of courses like Orion’s is to eradicate what is known as Mother Tongue Influence, or MTI for short.  MTI refers to the Indian accents and vocal inflections that remain after learning English as a second language. Courses like Deep’s specialize in Accent Neutralization, which can have students repeat syllables like “pa pa pa pa pa” for 30 minutes at a time until they begin to lose their Indian accent.  The goal is not to sound like an American, but to learn to speak without any accent, with perfect clarity, so that anyone can understand you over the distortion of a phone line. 
 
“The system is rated on a ten point scale” Deep told us.  “It measures your English for cross cultural understandability.” 
 
Deep says he scores a 9.55 on the test. When Chris asked how he might do, he was told he wouldn’t score above an 8.5. 
 
“You have a California accent.” Deep explained. “And also, English isn’t really your language. It’s the Queen’s language.” 
 
Deep seemed to have strong opinions about everything, and liked to declare them as facts. He told us he’d been in the call center industry long enough to know exactly what the perfect employee looks like, and when an applicant was likely to be hired. “In my class, every one of them will get hired eventually. I can bloody well guarantee it. It will just take some longer than others.” 
 
But Deep considered himself more than a simple accent trainer.  He believed that his training had another mission: to prepare his students for the culture shock and social trauma that almost all call center employees suffer. He understood better than most how difficult it could be to work the graveyard shift night after night, the havoc those hours can wreak on the body’s physical cycles, and how the job could make one lose touch with their family and friends. He also knew, from a long and hard personal battle with drug addiction, what a huge jump that disposable income can mean to a young adult suddenly released from the strict oversight of an Indian family. For better or for worse, he knew that each of his students would be profoundly changed by their time on the call center floor. 
 
“When they go in, When they come out—you can’t match the two people,” he warned. 
 
Deep knows because he first stepped on a call center floor when he was seventeen years old, in Calcutta. He’d landed a job handling inbound calls for British Telecom. 
 
At 5 foot 10, he’s tall for an Indian, with slim features, hollowed cheeks, and a puff of hair slicked back like the Fonz. He walks with confidence, almost a small bounce, sporting tight black jeans and a slim cut black shirt with the cuffs rolled up.  Black counterfeit aviators hang ever ready from his shirt pocket. He would fit right in in a Hell’s Kitchen bar. 
 
“At first I thought I’d work for six months, then go somewhere else.  But I got hooked on it, and I got really fast promotions.” 
 
Deep was good at what he did. He worked hard and efficiently, and most importantly, overcame the mother tongue influence and mastered accent neutralization.  This is not an easy task, as he demonstrated over samosas in a Bangalore mall.  He could switch, within the same sentence, from a Chicago to a Londoner to an Edinburgh accent, then back to the “neutral” accent in which he normally speaks English. He went in depth on the technique. 
 
“The Scots have a problem because they not only move their mouths up and down, they move it from side to side,” he told us, wagging his jaw for effect and making “ah” sounds in different tones. 
 
With his intuition for dialect, the 26 year old Calcutta native moved up the rungs of the call center ladder quickly. Less than 18 months after he’d stepped on the floor, British Telecom had moved him up to the post of trainer, where he prepared new hires for the floor. He excelled, and began a career in the position that would take him to ATT, Yell, Dell, Talk Talk, and eventually Orion Edutech, the private preparatory course where he was teaching when we met him. 
 
Deep was a success story, the kind that the young masses looked up to as they applied en masse to work the call center floors. But Deep also fell victim to his success, and the strange hours that the job demanded of him. 
 
“You’re earning good, you’re looking good, you’re admired -- that’s the outside.  But on the inside, you have a void,” he reminisced. 
 
The hardest part for him was the time change. Deep worked graveyard shifts for months on end, basically living on US time in India. It burned him out, and isolated him. 
 
“I didn’t see sunlight for 6 months at a stretch,” Deep recounted. The unnatural hours meant that when he reached home, he just slept, and he often wouldn’t see his family for months. As for his social life, he summed it up quickly.  “Friends? You can forget about friends.” 
 
Adding to the stress of the hours was the culture shock. In the call center, he spent his energy training people to think like Westerners, to talk like them, and to spend all day talking to them. The culture seeped through, but not all of the culture.  Most of the people who work on the floor have never been to America or Great Britain. They know only what they have learned in school, in training, and in their routine conversations with customers. There are enormous gaps in their mental picture of America that they simply fill with their imagination and the movies, sometimes seeing the West as little but the rock concerts, parties, and fast lifestyle the entertainment industry loves to promote it as. 
 
“Your mentality changes. The conservative nature, the ethnicity, it gets lost. You try to think like an American, but you’re not really an American, you’re an Indian. And sometimes you make the wrong decisions,” he explained to us during our second interview.  We’d told him we’d take him out to dinner at his favorite restaurant in Bangalore’s old town, hoping to discover a great Indian dive.  Instead, he met us at the new mall’s food court; there was sno-cone stand by our table. 
 
For Deep, the isolation and stress of the switched hours, the quasi-immersion in Western culture, and the enormous, rapid jump in disposable income led to a host of unhealthy lifestyle decisions. 
 
“Once you start flying with a load of bucks on your ass it gets really dangerous,” he said. 
 
Fly he did, getting to know the intricacies of Calcutta’s night life when he wasn’t on the job.  He began to abuse drugs, and became a heroin addict. The addiction stuck with him for five years, though he had been clean for more than a year when we interviewed him. 
 
Deep also grew alienated from his family, not seeing them for months and missing important holidays.  Tensions were high.  “More than once they gave me a hard time. I gave them a real hard time” he said regretfully. 
 
Eventually, Deep simply couldn’t handle the stress and the hours.  He had to get off the floor. He took a job at Orion Edutech because he could get away from the headsets while still employing the teaching and accent skills he had worked so hard to master.  It was an expensive lifestyle change- it pays around a quarter of his previous salary.  After hours, he now helps other recovering addicts at local NA meetings. 
 
Deep now tries to pass some of his experience along as a trainer, though he doesn’t believe much can be done to avoid the shock of the environment. 
 
“It only takes 3-4 months to make you hardcore,” he said.  “Part of it is what you’re born with—you know, like OCD.  But the call center is the catalyst.” 
 
The trainer paused, frowned. 
 
“I’ve seen hundreds get afflicted. I always make sure I tell them what to expect and what to avoid.” 
 
Deep decided to make our second session at Orion Edutech about cultural differences, one of his favorite topics. Many private institutes are known to teach Western customs by showing American TV shows like Friends or Seinfeld, but Deep started off our class by announcing we were going to have a cultural debate, “in honor of our special guests” he said, nodding towards the two of us. He picked up a red marker and scribbled our topic on the white board in big, block letters; East vs. West. 
 
“I want you guys to figure out the differences, and whether they are assets or liabilities. You have ten minutes to prepare.” 
 
Once he left the room, two of the students from North India started speaking Hindi to each other in hushed, concerned tones. Krishna, this time without an opportunity to prepare ahead of class like he did for the “Girl Child” debate, leaned over to Morgan and asked earnestly, “…so do you know what the differences are?” It seemed like he was expecting a single, definitive answer. 
 
Despite the students’ innocent confusion, Deep had no problem filling in blanks for them upon his return. It didn’t take long for our class debate to turn into his personal lecture on cultural education. To kick it off: 
 
“In the West they have lots of manners, but no culture. In India, we have lots of culture, but we ain’t got no manners. For example, in India we have six different ‘Woods: Bollywood, Tollywood, Sandalwood, Mollywood, Ollywood, and Kollywood. In America, they only have one ‘Wood. Hollywood….and that means they have less culture.” 
 
As on the first day, Krishna was writing extensive notes. Deep continued, clearly enjoying the topic and his students’ attentiveness. 
 
“Indian women are the 11th wonder of the world. But when they have a problem they stay shut and won’t say anything about it. They’re impossible.” 
 
He used the example to contrast to Americans, who have no problem blurting out their opinions. He described them as rude and aggressive on the phone. “Tell an American that your name is Raja and an f-word pops out. Better to use a fake name. At least the Canadians and British are better. We can actually use our real [Indian] names with them.” 
 
At the end of his lecture, Deep declared that the Eastern and Western cultural differences all boiled down to three main factors, which he bullet pointed on the whiteboard like they would be on a test. 
 
- Independence
- Marriage
- Family
 
Chris watched the young North Indian girl sitting next to him, Sulakshmi, write the points neatly down in her notebook. She hadn’t spoken a word since we had joined the class, and it was only time she wrote in her book the entire day. It wasn’t clear how critically she had taken Deep’s statements. But after a few months talking on the floor, she’ll decide those things for herself anyway. 

Sonam Nidur, who’s worked on the floor for two years in North Bangalore, had come to some conclusions of her own.  The Canadians were fine, but she didn’t want to field any calls from Americans.  “I was working for Cricket, but the customers were scary. Americans won’t calm down,” she said, repeating the mantra we’d heard from others that US customers are impossible to deal with. 
 
But Americans or not, she believes her job is temporary; she wants to do better than a call center. 
 
The Bhutanese immigrant sat cross legged on the floor of her apartment.  She had brought out bowls of noodles for us to lunch on, and offered some pickled beef that came in a peanut butter jar from her homeland.  We sat on the only piece of furniture in her living room, a futon. 
 
Sonam had taken the three day train ride from Bhutan to South India two years ago, leaving behind a ten year career as a kindergarten teacher, her 7 and 10 year old children, and the aftershocks of a divorce. She came to study, and to build a new life that would bring her and her children more opportunity. The English she’d acquired in school had been honed by a parade of American volunteers cycling through her kindergarten class during tourist season; her trained accent and cheery voice made her an excellent candidate for call center work.  She took the job at Cricket because it was the best one she could find and it paid well, but had to sacrifice her plans for grad school because the graveyard shifts make it impossible for her to study during the day. 
 
Sonam now works for Mphasis, an HP-owned Indian outsourcing firm that handles voice and transaction services for Fortune 500 companies.  Her division handles inbound calls for a Canadian bank called TD Canada Trust. 
 
From 1 to 11 am every day, she sits on the floor with a headset clamped firmly around her head, microphone held in front of her mouth with a stiff wire. Up to 100 times a day, a beep sounds in her ear to warn her that another Canadian needs help from their bank. She does not need to actively accept the call; it simply goes live, and the account information comes up in the screen in front of her. 
 
“Hello, Mr. Smith, thank you for calling TD Canada Trust Bank, how may I assist you today­?” 
 
Sonam then helps them, sometimes with a transfer to another department, sometimes with an hour long step by step conversation that follows the guidelines in the booklet she was given during training. The conversations always include a pitch to upgrade or change accounts. No customer interaction should go by without something new being offered. 
 
When the problem is resolved or the sale finished, and the Canadian returns to their life in the daylight, Sonam receives another beep in her headphones in less than five seconds. There is an incessant backlog of calls. She has the power to hold off the beep, by pressing a button marked ‘AEW’ on her monitor, but, she laughed, “If I hold off calls for more than fifteen seconds, they [her managers] will come after me.” 
 
While Sonam acknowledged that the pay from the call center job has put her in a reasonably comfortable place, she says the opportunity has come at some social cost.  Many of her friends and family in Bhutan thought it wasn’t safe for her to move off alone to go work in a call center. “They would tell me that it’s not safe for women, that it looks cheap,” she said, echoing concerns we’d heard around India that women shouldn’t be working at night. The strange hours, and the fact that Sonam speaks little of the local languages, has also left her isolated. “This job is not even letting me study,” she said, referring to the daylight hours when she’s not working.  “It’s either making me fall sick, or making me sleep.” 
 
But on the floor, where the kaleidoscope of Indian cultures comes together to work, Sonam has been able to gain a cultural experience and know-how that encompasses far more than just the West.  “I’ve never come across people like [my colleagues],” she said with a smile. 
 
The rules of their interactions are different in the office than outside of it. 
 
“There is some change when [my colleagues] come in. They smile more, chat more,” Sonam said.  She gave the example of the Muslim women that work around her.  Outside of work, they are forced to wear a veil and cover their faces, and rarely leave their home. Once at the office, however, Sonam claims that they change into jeans and a t-shirt, and become talkative and social. 
 
Still, after two years of working graveyard shifts, Sonam is ready to move on to greener pastures, somewhere with more manageable hours and better prospects for career growth. Armed with the success of her first move abroad for work, and the knowledge she has gained there, Sonam wants to go to America. 
 
Some of her extended relatives are working in Queens as babysitters for wealthy families, and have told Sonam that they’ll help her get a start there. The prospect is alluring— the 60 dollars a day they earn in New York is a monstrous sum compared to what she makes.  Legally or illegally, she is seeking any means to join them. “Even if I could only find a job that paid five, six, dollars an hour, that would make a huge difference for my family,” she said. 
 
The 30 year old asked Morgan if he knew anything about how she could get into the United States, acknowledging the unlikelihood of obtaining a visa as single mother with barely enough in the bank account for a one way flight. 
 
“Well, you could marry me,” Morgan joked.  There was an awkward silence, in which she looked him in the eye.  “I’d do anything to get into the States.” 
 
Sonam is not alone in her desire to use call centers as a springboard into US or UK.  Aditya Siddannavar,  an ambitious 23 year old who invited us to parties that involved barbeques on the roof and microbrews, is among the greatest of those stories.  He arrived alone in Bangalore at 18, and worked for six months in a Talk Talk call center to start paying his college bills. His used his experience there, and the breathing room it gave him, to apply for a job at Accenture, though he lied about the fact that he was still in school. After they hired him, he worked nights while studying days to finish paying his way to a bachelors degree.  Now, just 5 years later after arriving in Bangalore, Aditya is a junior account manager at a financial consulting firm, Metric Stream, where he directs MBA-wielding employees twice his age, and oversees a roster of US clients that include mid-sized banks. 
 
“But I want to put a face to those voices” he said, referring to his desire to move to the US, and meet his American clients face to face. Aditya is not merely content being the detached person on the other side of the line. He’ll spend next year on a master’s degree scholarship in Germany, but already has a sponsor inviting him to come work in California. While it seems that outsourcing is sending many American jobs overseas, this at least is one job that will be coming back. 
 
Aditya’s drive and ambition are exceptional, but everyone ends up changed by their time on the call center floor. The nature of the job—the quasi-immersion in Western culture, the huge boost in disposable income, and the off-putting hours—pushes employees away from the conservative elements of their own culture. Because so many employees are young, the jobs can cultivate tastes for Western media and goods, packaged in the mega malls springing up everywhere in Indian cities that they now have money to visit.  It also makes many employees want to go to the countries they are speaking to - some just to see and finish building the image they have in their head, others to work and make new lives for themselves.  Most importantly, the call centers can serve as a stepping stone. The culture shock, job stress, and cash burn out some, but a few can hurdle further up the white-collar ladder, helped by the language and soft skills that 10 hours a day of problem-solving will give you. 
 
Whatever it is, the Indian named Bill on the other end of the line—the one asking you to push the reset button on your printer—is more deeply impacted than you are by the call, whether your printer ends up being fixed or not. 
 
If we looked, we’d probably see these movements away from conservatism in any profession that requires someone living in one country to deal with the immediate events in another, on the other side of the world.  It is probably similar for freelance programmers, IT professionals, and especially bloggers, all of whom deal with foreign clients without the benefit of a script. 
 
Which brings us back to the classroom where, scriptless, the students copied down Deep’s bullet points without comment.  The class fell silent, unable or unwilling to debate on those points or close the discussion.  Krishna sat next to Morgan, looking intensely at the three bullet points, a small part of the key to his wife and the appeasement of his conservative parents. 
 
We couldn’t help but wonder, after a few months of working on the call center floor, how he’d respond to the dining room gossip, or whether he’d even care. 
\- [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/morganhartley/2012/12/16/the-culture-shock-of-indias-call-centers/#5954dd0472f5)