1. The appellant has challenged the judgment and decree
for specific performance passed by the learned Trial Court. The
appellant was the defendant and respondent was the plaintiff before
the learned Trial Court. For the sake of convenience, the appellant
and the respondent shall be referred to as per their ranks in the
plaint as the defendant and plaintiff respectively. 2. Plaintiff's case - The plaintiff instituted a suit for
specific performance, declaration and permanent injunction against
the defendant on 21st August, 1997. The case set-up by the
plaintiff in the plaint is as under:- measuring 133.25 Sq. yds., hereinafter referred to as ‗the suit
property' for a total sale consideration of `13,95,000/-. The
plaintiff paid a sum of `1,50,000/- to the defendant as earnest
money which was recorded in the agreement dated 5th July, 1996.
2.2 On 22nd August, 1996, the defendant in continuation
of the agreement dated 5th July, 1996, executed another agreement
relating to the suit property in favour of the plaintiff on the same
terms and conditions except that further payment of `50,000/- to be
made by the plaintiff to the defendant. 2.3 On 22nd August, 1996, the plaintiff made further
payment of `1,70,000/- (instead of `50,000/- mentioned in the
agreement dated 22nd August, 1996) to the defendant who extended
the date of the agreement up to 17th October, 1996 which was
recorded by the defendant on the back of page ‗1' of the agreement
dated 22nd August, 1996. 2.4 On 16th October, 1996, the defendant extended the
date of completion of the agreement up to 30th October, 1996
which was recorded by the defendant in his own hand writing on
the back of page ‗1' of the agreement dated 22nd August, 1996.
2.5 The plaintiff informed the defendant to be present in
the office of Sub-Registrar for execution and registration of the
sale deed on 30th October, 1996. 2.6 On 30th October, 1996 at 10:00 am, the plaintiff
visited the office of the Sub-Registrar along with the balance sale RFA No.83/2007 Page 2 of 125 consideration, partly in the form of bank drafts and partly in cash
and waited for the defendant throughout the day. The plaintiff
obtained the receipt about her presence from the office of the Sub-
Registrar on 30th October, 1996. 2.7 The plaintiff had been requesting the defendant to
receive the balance sale consideration, execute and register the sale
deed, and hand over the vacant and peaceful possession of the suit
property. 2.8 The defendant had been falsely promising to complete
the sale in terms of the agreement to sell but later his intention
became dishonest and he started giving threats to the plaintiff and
her family members. 2.9 On 23rd June, 1997, the husband of the plaintiff lodged
a complaint with the SHO, Police Station, Krishna Nagar.
2.10 On 31st July, 1997, the defendant issued a legal notice
to the plaintiff wrongly repudiating the agreement to sell and
falsely contending that the agreement stood cancelled and the
earnest money stood forfeited. 2.11 The plaintiff has always been ready and willing and is
still ready and willing to perform her part of the contract.
2.12 The defendant has no right to cancel the agreement or
to forfeit the earnest money. 3. Defendant's case - The defence set-up by the
defendant in the written statement is as under:- out of the earnest money received by him from the plaintiff. As
such, the time was of the essence of the agreement dated 5 th July,
1996. 3.2 The plaintiff was not having the entire sale
consideration and, therefore, she requested the defendant to accept
additional amount of `50,000/- on 22nd August, 1996 and to extend
the payment of the balance sale consideration. The plaintiff's
husband prepared another agreement dated 22nd August, 1996 and
requested the defendant to sign the same and agreed to pay
`50,000/- by the evening. The defendant bonafidely signed the
said agreement. Neither the plaintiff nor her husband turned up in
the evening with the payment of `50,000/-. The plaintiff defaulted
in making the payment of `50,000/- in terms of the agreement
dated 22nd August, 1996 whereupon the defendant informed the
plaintiff on telephone that the agreement dated 22nd August, 1996
stood cancelled. 3.3 The plaintiff again approached the defendant on 6th
September, 1996 and promised to make the payment of the entire
sale consideration by 5th October, 1996 whereupon the defendant
entered into an agreement dated 7th September, 1996 to purchase
property bearing No.F-1, Radhey Puri, Khureji Khas, Delhi- 110051. The defendant made the payment of `1,00,000/- as
earnest money to the seller of the suit property and agreed to pay
the balance sale consideration by 9th October, 1996. The defendant
made further payment of `50,000/- to the seller and extended the
date of completion of sale up to 20th October, 1996.
3.4 The plaintiff failed to make the payment of the
balance sale consideration to the defendant in terms of the
agreement dated 5th July, 1996 and, therefore, the agreement dated
5th July, 1996 stood cancelled which was informed by the
defendant to the plaintiff. 3.5 On 16th October, 1996, the defendant was called by
the police at Police Station, Krishna Nagar where he was
threatened that he would be implicated in a false case at the
instance of the plaintiff. The defendant being a bank employee, got
afraid and under police pressure and threats, made some writing on
the back of the agreement as per the dictation of the police and the
husband of the plaintiff. The defendant never received any amount
from the plaintiff after execution of the agreement dated 5 th July,
1996. 3.6 The agreement dated 5th July, 1996 stood cancelled
due to the failure of the plaintiff to make the payment of the
balance sale consideration within the stipulated period. The
endorsement on the back side of the agreement was made under
police pressure and no payment was received as endorsed on the
back of the agreement dated 22nd August, 1996. However, in order
to avoid any controversy, the date of completion of the agreement, RFA No.83/2007 Page 5 of 125 namely 5th July, 1996 was extended up to 30th October, 1996 on
telephone on the condition that the entire balance sale
consideration shall be paid by means of bank draft/pay order and
the same shall be shown to the defendant at his house and then the
defendant would accompany the plaintiff for execution/registration
of sale deed. The plaintiff did not turn up on 30 th October, 1996
and, therefore, the agreement stood cancelled and earnest money
stood forfeited which was informed to the plaintiff on telephone.
3.7 The agreement to sell dated 5th July, 1996 stood
cancelled and the earnest money stood forfeited due to the failure
of the defendant to make the payment of the balance sale
consideration within the stipulated period.
3.8 The defendant entered into an agreement dated 7th
September, 1996 to purchase property bearing No.F-1, Radhey
Puri, Khureji Khas, Delhi-110051 and paid the earnest money of
`1,50,000/- to the seller. The said agreement was cancelled due to
the breach of the plaintiff resulting in forfeiture of earnest money.
3.9 The plaintiff was never ready and willing to perform
his part of contract. The plaintiff was not having sufficient funds
to make the payment of the balance sale consideration. 4. Issues
The following issues were framed by the learned Trial Court on
12th February, 2000: 5. Plaintiff's evidence
5.1 The plaintiff appeared in the witness box as PW-1 and
reiterated the case set-up in the plaint. She deposed with respect to
the agreement to sell dated 5th July, 1996 (Ex.P-1), agreement to
sell dated 22nd August, 1996 (Ex.P-2), receipts dated 30th October,
1996 from the office of the Sub-Registrar (Ex.P-3 and Ex.P-3A),
complaint dated 23rd June, 1997 to the police (Ex.P-4) and legal
notice dated 31st July, 1997 (Ex.P-5). In cross-examination, PW-1
admitted that the defendant had shown the registered sale deed of
the suit property to her as well as her husband. She also admitted
that the defendant had to simultaneously purchase another property
after entering into the agreement to sell with the plaintiff.
However, she denied that the defendant actually entered into an
agreement to purchase a property in Radhey Puri and made the
payment of the earnest money to the vendor of that property.
5.2 The plaintiff's husband appeared in the witness box as
PW-10 and also reiterated the case set-up in the plaint. In cross-
examination, he admitted that neither he nor his wife was having
entire sale consideration in their bank account. He stated that he RFA No.83/2007 Page 7 of 125 had arranged the sale consideration from his father-in-law. He
deposed that his brother-in-law brought the demand drafts from
Punjab to Delhi on 30th October, 1996. He admitted that the
plaintiff had not purchased any stamp paper for execution of the
sale deed. He further admitted that the plaintiff had not shown any
bank draft or cheque for the balance sale consideration to the
defendant. He deposed that the defendant had told the plaintiff that
he would give the title documents to the plaintiff in Court on 30 th
October, 1996. He admitted having not replied to the legal notice
dated 30th July, 1997 before filing the case.
5.3 PW-3, father of the plaintiff appeared in the witness
box and deposed that he prepared five demand drafts totaling
`10,25,000/- as per the details given hereinbelow from State Bank
of Patiala and State Bank of India, all favouring the defendant and
he gave the same to the plaintiff for purchase of the suit property
from the defendant:- Nagar deposed with respect to the receipt of complaint from the
plaintiff against the defendant on 23rd June, 1997.
5.5 PW-6 from State Bank of Patiala deposed with respect RFA No.83/2007 Page 8 of 125 to the certificate (Ex.PW-6/1) issued by Manager, State Bank of
Patiala regarding four drafts prepared on 14th October, 1996 and
cancelled on 5th November, 1996. 5.6 PW-7 from State Bank of India deposed with respect
to draft for `8,75,000/- prepared on 29th October, 1996 and
cancelled by PW-3 on 8th November, 1996. He also deposed with
respect to the certificates issued by the Branch Manager
(Ex.PW7/1 and Ex.PW7/2). 5.7 PW-8 from the Sub-Registrar's office, Seelampur
deposed with respect to the receipts (Ex.PW-8/1 and PW-8/2)
issued from the book maintained in their office. He deposed that
the receipts were issued from their office. 6. Defendant's evidence
6.1 The defendant appeared in the witness box as DW-1
and reiterated the case set-up in the written statement. The
defendant deposed with respect to the legal notice dated 31st July,
1997 (Ex.DW-1/1). The photocopy of agreement dated 7th
September, 1996 to purchase property no. F-1, Radhey Puri,
Khureji Khas, Delhi was marked as Mark ‗A'. In cross-
examination, he admitted that he did not give any notice in writing
to the plaintiff regarding agreement to purchase property no.F-1,
Radhey Puri, Khureji Khas, Delhi. He further admitted that he
neither lodged any complaint against the police officers nor issued
any notice to protest the endorsement on the back of agreement -
Ex.P-2. He also admitted that he did not approach any senior
police officer. He also admitted that he did not challenge the RFA No.83/2007 Page 9 of 125 endorsement dated 16th October, 1996 in any Court.
6.2 DW-2, brother-in-law of the defendant deposed that
he was present at the time of the execution of the agreement -
Ex.P-1. DW-2 further deposed that he was aware of the intention of
the defendant to purchase another property in Radhey Puri and that
the defendant went ahead with this transaction by paying the
earnest money received from the plaintiff towards the execution of
an agreement to purchase the property in Radhey Puri. He deposed
that this agreement to sell was only entered into after receiving
assurances from the plaintiff. DW-2 further stated that he
personally visited the plaintiff's house before the due date but the
plaintiff along with her husband avoided the transaction, as they
were not having balance sale consideration. He further stated that
the defendant faced harassment from the police at the behest of the
husband of the Plaintiff and thereafter the defendant wrote
something under duress. DW-2 reiterated that the defendant had
received only `1,50,000/- as earnest money which was used to
execute an agreement to purchase another property, and no further
payments were made by the plaintiff who breached the agreement. 7. Findings of the Trial Court
The learned Trial Court granted the decree of specific performance
of the agreements - Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2 to the plaintiff against the
defendant and directed the defendant to execute the sale deed of
property bearing no.53, New Krishna Nagar, Delhi-110051 and get
the same registered in the office of concerned Sub-Registrar within
a period of one month failing which plaintiff would be entitled to RFA No.83/2007 Page 10 of 125 get it executed and registered through process of the Court. The
learned Trial Court directed the plaintiff to deposit the balance sale
consideration of `10,75,000/- in Court within 30 days. The vacant
and peaceful possession of the suit property was also directed to be
handed over to the plaintiff at the time of registration of the sale
deed. The learned Trial Court declared the agreements - Ex.P-1
and Ex.P-2 to be valid and enforceable and further that the
defendant had no right to cancel the same and to forfeit the earnest
money. The learned Trial Court restrained the defendant from
transferring, selling, creating any interest or disposing of the suit
property. The findings of the learned Trial Court are as under:- Registrar was not contained in the agreement and no evidence was
brought on record by the defendant regarding the understanding of
this condition. 8. Grounds of appeal

The learned counsel for the appellant - defendant has urged the
following grounds at the time of hearing of this appeal:- 8.5 The unwillingness of the plaintiff can be inferred from
the following facts:- 8.6 The defendant issued a legal notice dated 31 st July,
1997 to the plaintiff to notify the cancellation of the agreement and
forfeiture of the earnest money to which the plaintiff did not reply. 8.7 Time was the essence of the contract as the defendant
had to purchase another property from the sale proceeds of the suit
property. The learned counsel referred to and relied upon Chand
Rani v. Kamal Rani , (1993) 1 SCC 519 in which the Supreme
Court held time to be the essence of the contract in view of the
express term of the contract and the specific performance was
declined to the plaintiff. 8.8 The defendant had entered into an agreement to
purchase property no. F-1, Radhey Puri, Khureji Khas, Delhi-
110051 for `10,10,000/- against payment of earnest money of RFA No.83/2007 Page 14 of 125 `1,00,000/-and further payment of `50,000/-. The defendant could
not make the payment of the balance sale consideration and
therefore, the earnest money paid in that transaction stood
forfeited. 8.9 The plaintiff is not entitled to the decree of specific
performance on the ground of undue delay of more than nine
months in filing the suit for specific performance. 8.10 The specific performance of the agreement would
cause great hardship to the defendant as the property prices have
gone up and it is impossible for the defendant to purchase any
property from the sale consideration of the agreement in question.
The learned counsel referred to and relied upon A.C. Arulappan v.
Ahalya Naik , (2001) 6 SCC 600 in which the Supreme Court held
that the specific performance may not be granted if the defendant
would be put to undue hardship which he did not foresee at the
time of the agreement. 8.11 The appellant was a retired person aged about 68
years having responsibility of a mentally disabled son under
treatment. The appellant and his family members have no property
other than the suit property and they would be rendered homeless
in the event of specific performance. The appellant has referred to
and relied upon Ranganayakamma v. N. Govinda Narayan , AIR
1982 Kar 264 in which the specific performance was declined by
the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court on the ground that RFA No.83/2007 Page 15 of 125 the appellant was a widow with no children and could not buy a
similar house in Mysore city out of the balance sale consideration
payable under the agreement. 8.12 The plaintiff made a police complaint dated 23rd June,
1997 to pressurize the defendant to return the earnest money and
thereby gave up the right to specific performance. 8.13 At the time of the final hearing of the appeal, the
learned counsel for the defendant offered to return the earnest
money to the plaintiff which was rejected by the plaintiff who
submitted that he has deposited the balance sale consideration of
`10,75,000/- with the learned Trial Court as back as 15th
December, 2006 in terms of the impugned judgment and decree. 9. Response of the Plaintiff to the Grounds of Appeal

9.1 The plaintiff paid the earnest money of `1,50,000/- to
the defendant recorded in the sale agreement, Ex.P-1 and
`1,70,000/- recorded on the back of agreement, Ex.P-2. The
plaintiff was ready and willing to make the payment of the balance
sale consideration of `10,75,000/- to the defendant on 30th October,
1996 and she intimated the same to the defendant and requested
him to reach the office of the Sub-Registrar for execution of the
Sale Deed. 9.2 The defendant committed breach of the agreements
Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2 by failing to reach the office of the Sub- Registrar on 30th October, 1996 to receive the balance sale
consideration of `10,75,000/- and to execute the Sale Deed.
9.3 The plaintiff had not purchased the stamp papers and
had also not drafted the Sale Deed because the defendant had not
given the title documents to the defendant. The plaintiff had
promised to give the title documents to the defendant before the
Sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996. 9.4 The defendant issued a legal notice to the plaintiff on
31st July, 1997 i.e. nine months after the stipulated date for
completion of sale. The defendant has not explained the said
delay. 9.5 The defendant did not mention the frustration of the
agreement to purchase another property in Radhey Puri in the legal
notice dated 31st July, 1997. 9.6 The defendant also did not mention the execution of
the two endorsements on the back of the agreement - Ex.P-2 under
police pressure in the legal notice dated 31st July, 1997. 9.7 The defendant also did not dispute the two
endorsements on the back of the agreement - Ex.P-2 in the legal
notice dated 31st July, 1997. 9.8 The defendant did not challenge the two endorsements
on the back of agreement - Ex.P-2 in any Court of law. 9.9 The defendant admitted having extended the date of
completion of sale up to 30th October, 1996 on telephone, meaning RFA No.83/2007 Page 17 of 125 thereby that the defendant admitted telephonic communication with
the plaintiff. 9.10 If the defendant had to pay the sale consideration for
Radhey Puri property by 9th October, 1996, why did the defendant
extend the date of completion of sale in the present case up to 30 th
October, 1996. 9.11 The plaintiff did not waive the right to specific
performance by filing the police complaint dated 23rd June, 1997. 9.12 The defendant referred to and relied upon Faquir
Chand v. Sudesh Kumari , (2006) 12 SCC 146; Motilal Jain v.
Ramdasi Devi , (2000) 6 SCC 420; Razik Ram v. J.S. Chouhan ,
( 1975) 4 SCC 769 and Bachhaj Nahar v. Nilima Mandal , (2008)
17 SCC 491. 9.13 During the course of final hearing, the learned senior
counsel for the plaintiff, on instructions, offered to pay the market
price of the suit property according to the circle rates in terms of
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Satya Jain v. Anis Ahmed
Rushdie , 2012 (11) SCALE 570 which was rejected by the
defendant. 10. It is the fundamental duty of the Court to ascertain the
truth and do justice on the basis of truth. The law in this regard is
well settled. However, the Trial Court has made no effort to
discover the truth. Noting what Nobel Laureate and French
Thinker, Andre Gide, once said, ―Everything has been said RFA No.83/2007 Page 18 of 125 already, but as no one listens, we must always begin again‖, this
Court considers it necessary to reiterate the principles relating to
the discovery of truth for the guidance of the Trial Courts. 11. Truth should be the Guiding Star in the Entire
 Judicial Process
11.1 Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of
justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery
system. People would have faith in Courts when truth alone
triumphs. The justice based on truth would establish peace in the
society. 11.2 Krishna Iyer J. in Jasraj Inder Singh v. Hemraj
Multanchand , (1977) 2 SCC 155 described truth and justice as
under: The Supreme Court referred to Upanishads, Valmiki Ramayana and
Rig Veda. 11.7 In Mohan Singh v. State of M.P. , (1999) 2 SCC 428 the
Supreme Court held that effort should be made to find the truth;
this is the very object for which Courts are created. To search it
out, the Court has to remove chaff from the grain. It has to disperse
the suspicious, cloud and dust out the smear of dust as all these things
clog the very truth. So long chaff, cloud and dust remains, the
criminals are clothed with this protective layer to receive the benefit
of doubt. So it is a solemn duty of the Courts, not to merely
conclude and leave the case the moment suspicions are created. It
is onerous duty of the Court, within permissible limit to find out
the truth. It means, on one hand no innocent man should be
punished but on the other hand to see no person committing an
offence should get scot free. There is no mathematical formula
through which the truthfulness of a prosecution or a defence case
could be concretised. It would depend on the evidence of each case
including the manner of deposition and his demeans, clarity,
corroboration of witnesses and overall, the conscience of a judge
evoked by the evidence on record. So Courts have to proceed RFA No.83/2007 Page 21 of 125 further and make genuine efforts within judicial sphere to search
out the truth and not stop at the threshold of creation of doubt to
confer benefit of doubt. 11.8 In Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , (2006)
3 SCC 374, the Supreme Court observed that right from the inception
of the judicial system it has been accepted that discovery, vindication
and establishment of truth are the main purposes underlying
existence of Courts of justice. 11.9 In Himanshu Singh Sabharwal v. State of Madhya
Pradesh , (2008) 3 SCC 602, the Supreme Court held that the trial
should be a search for the truth and not a bout over technicalities. The
Supreme Court's observation are as under: That is their mandate, obligation and bounden duty. Justice
 system will acquire credibility only when people will be
 convinced that justice is based on the foundation of the truth. xxx xxx xxx 35. What people expect is that the Court should discharge its
 obligation to find out where in fact the truth lies. Right from
 inception of the judicial system it has been accepted that
 discovery, vindication and establishment of truth are the main
 purposes underlying the existence of the courts of justice. xxx xxx xxx 52. Truth is the foundation of justice. It must be the
 endeavour of all the judicial officers and judges to ascertain
 truth in every matter and no stone should be left unturned in
 achieving this object. Courts must give greater emphasis on
 the veracity of pleadings and documents in order to ascertain
 the truth.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)
11.12 In A. Shanmugam v. Ariya Kshatriya , (2012) 6 SCC
430, the Supreme Court held that the entire journey of a judge is
to discern the truth from the pleadings, documents and
arguments of the parties. Truth is the basis of justice delivery
system. The Supreme Court laid down the following principles: State of U.P., MANU/SC/0892/2012, the Supreme Court observed RFA No.83/2007 Page 25 of 125 that truth should become the ideal to inspire the Courts to pursue.
This can be achieved by statutorily mandating the Courts to
become active seekers of truth. The observations of Supreme
Court are as under: 12. What is ‗Truth' and how to discover it

12.1 The next question which arises for consideration is,
what is the meaning of Truth and how to discover it. The
judgments referred to hereinabove do not contain the answer to
these twin questions. 12.2 Eminent scholar Prof. G. Mohan Gopal, former
Director, National Judicial Academy, has done remarkable work on
the approach of law to truth. He has defined the Law's Truth and
has also explained the method of discovering Law's Truth. He has
described Law's truth as synonymous with facts established in
accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. The existence of
facts have to be established strictly on the basis of relevant and
admissible evidence, judicial notice and legally permitted
presumptions based on reason, rationality and justification. The
views of Prof. G. Mohan Gopal in his unpublished article -―Courts
and Truth‖ contain summary of discussions at National Judicial
Academy which are reproduced hereunder:- However, the list of the articles are noted for future reference
which is as under: The proviso to Section 165 provides that the judgment must be
based on duly proved relevant facts. Sections 3 , 114 and 165 of the
Indian Evidence Act lay down the important principles to aid the
Court in its quest for duly proved relevant facts and the same are
discussed hereunder. 13. Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872

13.1 Proof : A fact is said to be proved when, after
considering the matters before it, the Court either believes it to
exist, or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man
ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon
the supposition that it exists. ―Evidence‖ of a fact and ―proof‖ of a
fact are not synonymous terms. ―Proof‖, in the strict sense, means
the effect of evidence. 13.2 Section 3 defines the expressions ‗proved',
‗disproved', and ‗not proved' as under:- Reasons are the very life of law. It is the heart beat of every belief
and without it, law becomes lifeless. Reasons also ensure
transparency and fairness in the decision making process. The
reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity. Recording of reasons
also acts as a vital restraint on possible arbitrary use of the judicial
power. The recording of reasons serve the following four
purposes:- Non-recording of reasons would cause prejudice to the litigant who
would be unable to know the ground which weighed with the Court
and also cause impediment in his taking adequate grounds before
the appellate Court in the event of challenge. 13.5 Nothing can be said to be ―proved‖, however much
material there may be available, until the Court believes the
fact to exist or considers its existence so probable that a prudent
man will act under the supposition that it exists. For example,
ten witnesses may say that they saw the sun rising from the West
and all the witnesses may withstand the cross-examination, the
Court would not believe it to be true being against the law of nature
and, therefore, the fact is ‗disproved'. In mathematical terms, the
entire evidence is multiplied with zero and, therefore, it is not
required to be put on judicial scales. Where the Court believes the
case of both the parties, their respective case is to be put on judicial
scales to apply the test of preponderance. 13.6 Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act refers to the
degree of certainty which is required to treat fact as proved and is
so worded to provide for two conditions of mind; first, that in which
a man feels absolutely certain of a fact, in other words, ―believes it
to exist‖, and second, that in which, though he may not feel
absolutely certain of a fact, he thinks it so extremely probable that a
prudent man would, under the circumstances, act on assumption of
its existence. 13.7 The test of whether a fact is proved is such degree of
probability as would satisfy the mind of a reasonable man as to its
existence. The standard of certainty required is that of a prudent
man. Except where artificial probative value is assigned to certain
facts by presumptions, the Act affords no guidance on the question
whether one fact is or is not sufficient to prove another fact. On
this point, the Judge like a prudent man has to use its own
judgment and experience and cannot be bound by any rule except
his own judicial discretion. No hard and fast rule can be laid down
as to what inference can be drawn from certain circumstances. The
cumulative effect of all the circumstances established by evidence
and the nature of these circumstances has to be taken into
consideration. 13.8 The rules of evidence may provide tests, the value of
which has been proved by long experience, by which Judges may
be satisfied that the quality of the material upon which their
judgments are to proceed is not open to certain obvious objections;
but they do not profess to enable the Judges to know whether or not
a particular witness tells the truth or what inference is to be drawn
from a particular fact. The correctness with which this is done must
depend upon the natural sagacity, the logical power, and the
practical experience of the Judge and not only upon his
acquaintance with the law of evidence. 13.9 Cross-examination supplies a test to a certain extent,
but those who have seen most of its application will be disposed to RFA No.83/2007 Page 39 of 125 trust at least as a proof that a man is not shaken by it, ought to be
believed. A cool, steady liar who happens not to be open to
contradiction will baffle the most skilful cross-examiner in the
absence of accidents, which are not so common in practice as
persons who take their notions on the subject from anecdotes or
fiction would suppose. 13.10 The grounds for believing or disbelieving statements
made by people can be brought under following three heads;
namely those which affect the power of the witness to speak the
truth; those which affect his will to do so ; and those which arise
from the nature of the statement itself and from surrounding
circumstances:- Who will suffer if the presumption once drawn is not rebutted?
These questions will certainly have to be considered in the factual
scenario in each case. The Court summarised the law on this
aspect as under: ―1.5 Preliminary Instructions -- Evidence
 You should use your common sense in weighing the evidence.
 Consider it in light of your everyday experience with people
 and events, and give it whatever weight you believe it
 deserves. If your experience tells you that certain evidence
 reasonably leads to a conclusion, you are free to reach that
 conclusion.‖
 xxx xxx xxx
 ―1.11 Preliminary Instructions -- Clear and Convincing
 Evidence
 Clear and convincing evidence is evidence that produces in
 your mind a firm belief or conviction that the allegations RFA No.83/2007 Page 48 of 125 sought to be proved by the evidence are true. Clear and
 convincing evidence involves a higher degree of persuasion
 than is necessary to meet the preponderance of the evidence
 standard. But it does not require proof beyond a reasonable
 doubt, the standard applied in criminal cases.‖

13.14.2 Federal Civil Jury Instructions, State of Chicago,
 United States (2013). ―1.11 Weighing the Evidence
 You should use common sense in weighing the evidence and
 consider the evidence in light of your own observations in
 life. In our lives, we often look at one fact and conclude from it
 that another fact exists. In law we call this ―inference.‖ A jury
 is allowed to make reasonable inferences. Any inference you
 make must be reasonable and must be based on the evidence
 in the case.‖
 xxx xxx xxx
 ―1.13 Testimony of Witnesses (Deciding What to Believe)
 You must decide whether the testimony of each of the
 witnesses is truthful and accurate, in part, in whole, or not at
 all. You also must decide what weight, if any, you give to the
 testimony of each witness. In evaluating the testimony of any
 witness, [including any party to the case,] you may consider,
 among other things: ―2.5-1 Credibility of Witnesses
 The credibility of witnesses and the weight to be given to their
 testimony are matters for you as jurors to determine.
 However, there are some principles that you should keep in
 mind. No fact is, of course, to be determined merely by the
 number of witnesses who testify for or against it; it is the
 quality and not the quantity of testimony that controls. In
 weighing the testimony of each witness you should consider
 the witness's appearance on the stand and whether the witness
 has an interest of whatever sort in the outcome of the trial.
 You should consider a witness's opportunity and ability to
 observe facts correctly and to remember them truly and
 accurately, and you should test the evidence each witness
 gives you by your own knowledge of human nature and the
 motives that influence and control human actions. You may
 consider the reasonableness of what the witness says and the
 consistency or inconsistency of (his/her) testimony. You may
 consider (his/her) testimony in relation to facts that you find
 to have been otherwise proven. You may believe all of what a
 witness tells you, some of what a witness tells you, or none of
 what a particular witness tells you. You need not believe any
 particular number of witnesses and you may reject
 uncontradicted testimony if you find it reasonable to do so. In
 short, you are to apply the same considerations and use the
 same sound judgment and common sense that you use for
 questions of truth and veracity in your daily life.‖
13.14.4 Civil Jury Instructions, Canadian Judicial Council
 (2012). ―9.4 Assessment of Evidence
 [1] To make your decision, you should consider carefully,
 and with an open mind, all the evidence presented during the
 trial. It will be up to you to decide how much or little of the
 testimony of any witness you will believe or rely on. You may
 believe some, none or all of the evidence given by a witness. [2] When you go to the jury room to consider the case, use
 your collective common sense to decide whether the witnesses
 know what they are talking about and whether they are telling
 the truth. There is no magic formula for deciding how much
 or how little to believe of a witness's testimony or how much
 to rely on it in deciding this case. But here are a few questions
 you might keep in mind during your discussions.
 [3] Did the witness seem honest? Is there any reason why the
 witness would not be telling the truth? [4] Does the witness have any reason to give evidence that is
 more favourable to one side than to the other?
 [5] Was the witness in a position to make accurate and
 complete observations about the event? Did s/he have a good
 opportunity to do so? What were the circumstances in which
 the observation was made? What was the condition of the
 witness? Was the event itself unusual or routine?
 [6] Did the witness seem to have a good memory? Does the
 witness have any reason to remember the things about which
 s/he testified? Did any inability or difficulty that the witness
 had in remembering events seem genuine, or did it seem made
 up as an excuse to avoid answering questions?
 [7] Did the witness seem to be reporting to you what he or she
 saw or heard, or simply putting together an account based on
 information obtained from other sources, rather than personal
 observation? [8] Did the witness's testimony seem reasonable and
 consistent? Is it similar to or different from what other
 witnesses said about the same events? Did the witness say or
 do something different on an earlier occasion?
 [9] Do any inconsistencies in the witness's evidence make the
 main points of the testimony more or less believable and
 reliable? Is the inconsistency about something important, or a
 minor detail? Does it seem like an honest mistake? Is it a
 deliberate lie? Is the inconsistency because the witness said
 something different, or because s/he failed to mention RFA No.83/2007 Page 51 of 125 something? Is there any explanation for it? Does the
 explanation make sense? [10] What was the witness's manner when he or she testified?
 Do not jump to conclusions, however, based entirely on how a
 witness has testified. Looks can be deceiving. Giving
 evidence in a trial is not a common experience for many
 witnesses. People react and appear differently. Witnesses
 come from different backgrounds. They have different
 abilities, values and life experiences. There are simply too
 many variables to make the manner in which a witness
 testifies the only or most important factor in your decision.
 [11] These are only some of the factors that you might keep
 in mind when you go to your jury-room to make your
 decision. These factors might help you decide how much or
 little of a witness's evidence you will believe or rely on. You
 may consider other factors as well. [12] In making your decision, do not consider only the
 testimony of the witnesses. Take into account, as well, any
 exhibits that have been filed and decide how much or little
 you will rely on them to help you decide this case. I will be
 telling (or, have already told) you about how you use
 admissions in making your decision.‖ 14. Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872

14.1 Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act deals with the
rebuttable presumptions. Section 114 recognizes the general power
of the Court to raise inferences as to the existence or non-existence
of unknown facts on proof or admission of other facts. The source
of such presumptions is the common course of natural events,
human conduct and public or private business, and the Section
proceeds on the assumption that just as in nature, there prevails a
fixed order of things, so the volitional acts of men placed in similar
circumstances exhibits, on the whole, a distinct uniformity which is RFA No.83/2007 Page 52 of 125 traceable to the impulses of human nature, customs and habits of
society. 14.2 Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act is reproduced
hereunder: existence. When a presumption operates in favour of a party, the RFA No.83/2007 Page 56 of 125 burden of proof is on the opponent, and when the burden of proof
is on a party, there is a presumption operating in favour of the
opponent. In other systems of evidence, several rules which occur
in the Act as rules of burden of proof are stated in the form of
presumptions, whereas several other rules which are stated in the
Act in the form of presumptions occur in other systems as rules of
burden of proof. 14.9 The grounds of sources of presumptions of fact are
obviously innumerable, they are co-extensive with the facts, both
physical and psychological, which may under any circumstances
whatever becomes evidentiary in Courts; but, in a general view,
such presumptions may be said to relate to things, persons, and the
acts and thoughts of intelligent agents. With respect to the first of
these it is an established principle that conformity with the ordinary
course of nature ought always to be presumed. Thus, the order and
changes of the seasons, the rising setting and course of the
heavenly bodies, and the known properties of matter, give rise to
very important presumptions relative to physical facts or things.
The same rule extends to persons. Thus, the absence of those
natural qualities, power and faculties which are incident to the
human race in general will never be presumed in any individual;
such as the impossibility of living long without food, the
possession of the reasoning faculties, the common and ordinary
understanding of man etc. To this head are reducible the
presumptions relating to the duration of human life, the time of
gestation, etc. Under the third class - namely, the acts and thought RFA No.83/2007 Page 57 of 125 of intelligent agents - come among others, all psychological facts;
and the most important inference are drawn from the ordinary
conduct of mankind, and the natural feelings or impulses of human
nature. Thus, no man will ever be presumed to throw away his
property, as for instance, by paying money not due; and so it is a
maxim that everyone must be taken to love his own offspring more
than that of another person. 14.10 Presumptions of fact are always rebuttable. In other
words, the party against which a presumption may operate can and
must lead evidence to show why the presumption should not be
given effect to. If, for example, the party which initiates a
proceeding or comes with a case to Court offers no evidence to
support it, the presumption is that such evidence does not exist.
And if some evidence is shown to exist on a question in issue, but
the party which has it within its power, does not produce it, despite
notice to it to do so, the natural presumption is that it would, if
produced, have gone against it. Similarly, a presumption arises
from failure to discharge a special or particular onus.
14.11 The Judge has to call in aid not only his training and
wisdom but also the experience of life to adjudge which set of
evidence is more probable and which evidence is to be believed.
The Judge decides who is to be believed and how much and if not,
why so. He also visualises what, in ordinary course, should have
been the evidence but was not produced, wherefore an adverse
inference ought to be drawn. 14.12 The presentation of evidence and the inferences that
flow from it are placed by the Judge in his (judicial) scales. The
task of a Judge is to first assess the weight of the evidence
including presumptions, and then place it into the respective pan
(scale) hanging from the two ends of the equal arm of judicial
balance. 14.13 The relevant judgments relating to Section 114 of the
Indian Evidence Act are as under: State of Maharashtra, (1974) 4 SCC 544 held that Section 114 of
the Evidence Act enables the Court to use common sense as
judicial tool. Section 114 thus is a useful device to aid the
Court in its quest for truth. While care and caution need to be
exercised in drawing any presumption under Section 114 , its scope
is wide and it has the potential to lend a helping hand in myriad
situations. 14.13.5 In Narayan Govind Gavate v. State of Maharashtra ,
(1977) 1 SCC 133, the Supreme Court held that function of a
presumption is to fill a gap in evidence. Section 114 of the
Evidence Act covers a wide range of presumptions of fact which
can be used by Courts in the course of administration of justice
to remove lacunae in the chain of direct evidence before it. 14.13.6 In Syad Akbar v. State of Karnataka , (1980) 1 SCC
30, the Supreme Court held that presumptions are inferences of
certain fact patterns drawn from the experience and observation of RFA No.83/2007 Page 60 of 125 the common course of nature, the constitution of the human mind,
the springs of human action, the usages and habits of society and
ordinary course of human affairs. 14.13.7 In Sodhi Transport Co. v. State of U.P. , (1986) 2
SCC 486, the Supreme Court held that the rules of presumption are
deduced from enlightened human knowledge and experience and
are drawn from the connection, relation and coincidence of facts,
and circumstances. 14.13.8 In State of W.B. v. Mir Mohammad Omar , (2000) 8
SCC 382, the Supreme Court held that presumption of fact is an
inference as to the existence of one fact from the existence of some
other facts, unless the truth of such inference is disproved.
Presumption of fact is a rule in law of evidence that a fact
otherwise doubtful may be inferred from certain other proved
facts. When inferring the existence of a fact from other set of
proved facts, the Court exercises a process of reasoning and
reaches a logical conclusion as the most probable position. Section
114 empowers the Court to presume the existence of any fact
which it thinks likely to have happened. In that process, the Court
shall have regard to the common course of natural events, human
conduct etc. in relation to the facts of the case. 14.13.9 In M. Narsinga Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh ,
(2001) 1 SCC 691, the Supreme Court held that presumption is an
inference of a certain fact drawn from other proved facts. While
inferring the existence of a fact from another, the Court is only RFA No.83/2007 Page 61 of 125 applying a process of intelligent reasoning which the mind of a
prudent man would do under similar circumstances. Presumption is
not the final conclusion to be drawn from other facts. But it could
as well be final if it remains undisturbed later. Presumption in
Law of Evidence is a rule indicating the stage of shifting the
burden of proof. From a certain fact or facts the Court can
draw an inference and that would remain until such inference
is either disproved or dispelled. 14.13.10 In Limbaji v. State of Maharashtra , (2001) 10 SCC
340, the Supreme Court held that a presumption of fact is a type
of circumstantial evidence which in the absence of direct
evidence becomes a valuable tool in the hands of the Court to
reach the truth without unduly diluting the presumption in
favour of the innocence of the accused which is the foundation
of our criminal law. It is an inference of fact drawn from
another proved fact taking due note of common experience and
common course of events. Section 114 of the Evidence Act
shows the way to the Court in its endeavour to discern the
truth and to arrive at a finding with reasonable certainty. The
Supreme Court further held that having due regard to the germane
considerations set out in the section, certain presumptions which
the Court can draw are illustratively set out. They are not
exhaustive or comprehensive. The presumption under Section 114 is, of course, rebuttable. When once the presumption is drawn, the
duty of producing evidence to the contra so as to rebut the
presumption is cast on the party who is subjected to the rigour of RFA No.83/2007 Page 62 of 125 that presumption. Before drawing the presumption as to the
existence of a fact on which there is no direct evidence, the facts of
the particular case should remain uppermost in the mind of the
Judge. These facts should be looked into from the angle of
common sense, common experience of men and matters and then a
conscious decision has to be arrived at whether to draw the
presumption or not. 14.13.11 In Hiten P. Dalal v. Bratindranath Banerjee , (2001)
6 SCC 16, the Supreme Court held as under: The advantage of positive evidence is that it is the direct
 testimony of a witness to the fact to be proved, who, if he
 speaks the truth, saw it done; and the only question is whether RFA No.83/2007 Page 65 of 125 he is entitled to belief. The disadvantage is that the witness
 may be false and corrupt, and that the case may not afford the
 means of detecting his falsehood. But, in a case of
 circumstantial evidence where no witness can testify directly
 to the fact to be proved, it is arrived at by a series of other
 facts, which by experience have been found so associated with
 the fact in question, that in the relation of cause and effect
 they lead to a satisfactory and certain conclusion; as when
 footprints are discovered after a recent snow, it is certain that
 some animated being has passed over the snow since it fell ;
 and, from the form and number of the footprints, it can be
 determined with equal certainty, whether they are those of a
 man, a bird, or a quadruped. Circumstantial evidence,
 therefore, is founded on experience and observed facts and
 coincidences, establishing a connection between the known
 and proved facts and the fact sought to be proved. 15. Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
15.1 Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 invests
the Judge with plenary powers to put any question to any witness
or party; in any form, at any time, about any fact relevant or
irrelevant. Section 165 is intended to arm the Judge with the most
extensive power possible for the purpose of getting at the truth.
The effect of this section is that in order to get to the bottom of the
matter before it, the Court will be able to look at and inquire into
every fact and thus possibly acquire valuable indicative evidence
which may lead to other evidence strictly relevant and admissible.
The Court is not, however, permitted to found its judgment on any
but relevant statements. 15.2 Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 reads as
under: It is the duty of a Judge to discover the truth and for that purpose
he may "ask any question, in any form, at any time, of any witness,
or of the parties, about any fact, relevant or irrelevant". 15.7.2 In Ritesh Tewari v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2010) 10
SCC 677, the Supreme Court held that every trial is a voyage of
discovery in which truth is the quest. The power under Section
165 is to be exercised with the object of subserving the cause of
justice and public interest, and for getting the evidence in aid of a
just decision and to uphold the truth. It is an extraordinary
power conferred upon the Court to elicit the truth and to act in
the interest of justice. The purpose being to secure justice by full
discovery of truth and an accurate knowledge of facts, the Court
can put questions to the parties, except those which fall within
exceptions contained in the said provision itself. 15.7.3 In Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat ,
(2004) 4 SCC 158, the Supreme Court held that Section 165 of the
Indian Evidence Act and Section 311 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure confer vast and wide powers on Presiding Officers
of Court to elicit all necessary materials by playing an active
role in the evidence collecting process. The Judge can control
the proceedings effectively so that ultimate objective i.e. truth
is arrived at. The power of the Court under Section 165 of the
Evidence Act is in a way complementary to its power under
Section 311 of the Code. The Section consists of two parts i.e. (i)
giving a discretion to the Court to examine the witness at any stage
and (ii) the mandatory portion which compels the Courts to
examine a witness if his evidence appears to be essential to the just
decision of the Court. The second part of the section does not allow
any discretion but obligates and binds the Court to take necessary
steps if the fresh evidence to be obtained is essential to the just
decision of the case, essential to an active and alert mind and not to
one which is bent to abandon or abdicate. Object of the Section is
to enable the Court to arrive at the truth irrespective of the fact that
the prosecution or the defence has failed to produce some evidence
which is necessary for a just and proper disposal of the case.
Though justice is depicted to be blind-folded, as popularly said, it
is only a veil not to see who the party before it is while
pronouncing judgment on the cause brought before it by enforcing
law and administering justice and not to ignore or turn the
mind/attention of the Court away from the truth of the cause or lis RFA No.83/2007 Page 70 of 125 before it, in disregard of its duty to prevent miscarriage of justice.
Doing justice is the paramount consideration and that duty cannot
be abdicated or diluted and diverted by manipulative red herrings. 15.7.4 In State of Rajasthan v. Ani , (1997) 6 SCC162, the
Supreme Court held that Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act
confers vast and unrestricted powers on the Court to elicit
truth. Reticence may be good in many circumstances, but a Judge
remaining mute during trial is not an ideal situation. A taciturn
Judge may be the model caricatured in public mind. But there is
nothing wrong in his becoming active or dynamic during trial so
that criminal justice being the end could be achieved. A Judge is
expected to actively participate in the trial to elicit necessary
materials from witnesses in the appropriate context which he
feels necessary for reaching the correct conclusion. 15.7.5 In Mohanlal Shamji Soni v. Union of India , 1991
Supp. (1) SCC 271, referring to Section 165 of the Indian Evidence
Act and Section 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the
Supreme Court stated that the said two sections are complementary
to each other and between them, they confer jurisdiction on the
Judge to act in aid of justice. It is a well-accepted and settled
principle that a Court must discharge its statutory functions -
whether discretionary or obligatory - according to law in
dispensing justice because it is the duty of a Court not only to do
justice but also to ensure that justice is being done. 15.7.6 In Jamatraj Kewalji Govani v. State of Maharashtra ,
AIR 1968 SC 178, the Supreme Court held that Section 165 of the
Indian Evidence Act and Section 540 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 confer jurisdiction on the Judge to act in aid of
justice. In criminal jurisdiction, statutory law confers a power in
absolute terms to be exercised at any stage of the trial to summon a
witness or examine one present in Court or to recall a witness
already examined, and makes this the duty and obligation of the
Court provided the just decision of the case demands it. 15.7.7 In Sessions Judge Nellore Referring Officer v. Intha
Ramana Reddy , 1972 CriLJ 1485, the Andhra Pradesh High Court
held that every trial is a voyage of discovery in which truth is
the quest. It is the duty of a presiding Judge to explore every
avenue open to him in order to discover the truth and to
advance the cause of justice. For that purpose he is expressly
invested by Section 165 of the Evidence Act with the right to put
questions to witnesses. Indeed the right given to a Judge is so wide
that he may ask any question he pleases, in any form at any time,
of any witness, or of the parties about any fact, relevant or
irrelevant. 16. Importance of Trial Courts

The Law Commission of India headed by H.R. Khanna, J. in its
Seventy Seventh Report relating to the ‗Delays and Arrears in
Trial Courts' dealt with the importance of Trial Courts in the RFA No.83/2007 Page 72 of 125 justice delivery system. The relevant portion of the said Report is
reproduced as under: 17. False claims and defences

17.1 In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra), the Supreme Court held that false claims and
defences are serious problems with real estate litigation,
predominantly because of ever escalating prices of the real estate.
The Supreme Court held as under:- The observations of this Court are as under:- 18. Imposition of costs

18.1 In Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi , (2011) 8 SCC
249, the Supreme Court has held that the Courts have to take into
consideration pragmatic realities and have to be realistic in
imposing the costs. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are reproduced hereunder:- In our considered opinion the existing system can be RFA No.83/2007 Page 76 of 125 drastically changed or improved if the following steps are
 taken by the trial courts while dealing with the civil trials. xxx xxx xxx
 C. Imposition of actual, realistic or proper costs and or
 ordering prosecution would go a long way in controlling
 the tendency of introducing false pleadings and forged and
 fabricated documents by the litigants. Imposition of heavy
 costs would also control unnecessary adjournments by the
 parties. In appropriate cases the courts may consider
 ordering prosecution otherwise it may not be possible to
 maintain purity and sanctity of judicial proceedings... xxx xxx xxx 54. While imposing costs we have to take into
 consideration pragmatic realities and be realistic what the
 Defendants or the Respondents had to actually incur in
 contesting the litigation before different courts. We have to
 also broadly take into consideration the prevalent fee
 structure of the lawyers and other miscellaneous expenses
 which have to be incurred towards drafting and filing of
 the counter affidavit, miscellaneous charges towards
 typing, photocopying, court fee etc. 55. The other factor which should not be forgotten while
 imposing costs is for how long the Defendants or
 Respondents were compelled to contest and defend the
 litigation in various courts. The Appellants in the instant
 case have harassed the Respondents to the hilt for four
 decades in a totally frivolous and dishonest litigation in
 various courts. The Appellants have also wasted judicial time
 of the various courts for the last 40 years. 56. On consideration of totality of the facts and circumstances
 of this case, we do not find any infirmity in the well reasoned
 impugned order/judgment. These appeals are consequently
 dismissed with costs, which we quantify as Rs. 2,00,000/-
 (Rupees Two Lakhs only). We are imposing the costs not out
 of anguish but by following the fundamental principle that RFA No.83/2007 Page 77 of 125 wrongdoers should not get benefit out of frivolous
 litigation....‖
 (Emphasis supplied)
18.2 In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra) the Supreme Court held that heavy costs and
prosecution should be ordered in cases of false claims and
defences. The Supreme Court held as under:- 19. Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963
19.1 In a suit for specific performance, the plaintiff has to prove a
valid sale agreement; the breach of the contract by the defendant;
and readiness and willingness of the plaintiff to perform his part of
the contract. 19.2 Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act mandates
―readiness‖ and ―willingness‖ on the part of the plaintiff as a
condition precedent to seek specific performance. Section 16 (c) is
reproduced hereunder:- The former depends on the availability of requisite funds whereas
the latter depends on the intention of the purchaser.
19.4 The ―readiness‖ has to be proved by the purchaser by
leading evidence relating to the availability of the funds whereas
the intention has to be inferred from the various circumstances on
record. 19.5 If there is no availability of funds with the purchaser, he can
be non-suited on the ground of non-readiness alone.
19.6 If the plaintiff is able to prove the availability of the balance
sale consideration with him at the time fixed for performance in the
agreement, it is an indication of his readiness but his
willingness/intention to perform cannot be inferred from readiness
alone. 19.7 When the parties enter into an agreement relating to an
immovable property, they amicably agree on the sale
consideration, earnest money as well as the payment of the balance
sale consideration. If both the parties are ready and willing, they
usually complete the transaction within the stipulated time in the
following manner:- The purchaser would not be entitled to a decree merely because he
had the sale consideration with him and had visited the office of
the Sub-Registrar before the time fixed in the agreement. 19.12 Upon refusal of the seller to complete the sale in terms of the
agreement, the purchaser is expected to issue a notice to place on
record the refusal on the part of the seller to furnish copies of the
documents or giving a response to the draft sale deed or fixing the
schedule for execution and registration of sale deed. The purchaser
can also notify the date and time for visiting the office of the Sub-
Registrar along with the proof of the balance sale consideration to
the seller. The purchaser is also expected to immediately file a suit
for specific performance. Any delay in this regard may indicate his
intention that he was not ready and willing and the Court may
refuse to grant specific performance. 19.13 In a rising market, the purchaser makes a profit by the delay.
He may tie down a seller by creating false excuses and use the
money for buying some other property. If the purchaser is in a
property trade, he may tie down several properties and then decide
on which one he can make more profit on. These factors have to
be taken into consideration by the Court for deciding the
‗readiness' and ‗willingness'. 19.14 Once a seller has entered into an agreement to sell an
immovable property, he is looking for the sale consideration within
the period stipulated in the agreement. If he does not get the
money within the stipulated period, his plan to use the money for
whatever purpose he has intended would get frustrated. He may
have a plan to buy some other property or for some other purpose.
Secondly, the delay in completion of sale also causes injustice to
the seller as the property prices keep on increasing in normal RFA No.83/2007 Page 84 of 125 parlance. As such more the delay, the seller may suffer loss due to
rise in property price and greater is the profit which the purchaser
would derive by tying down a property and not paying the sale
consideration within the stipulated period.
19.15 The relevant judgments relating to Section 16(c) of the
Specific Relief Act, 1963 are as under:- 19.15.3 In R.C. Chandiok v. Chuni Lal Sabharwal , (1970) 3
SCC 140, the Supreme Court held that ―readiness‖ and
―willingness‖ cannot be treated as a straitjacket formula. It has to RFA No.83/2007 Page 85 of 125 be determined from the entirety of facts and circumstances relevant
to the intention and conduct of the party concerned. 20. Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963
20.1 Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 provides that the
jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary and the
Court is not bound to grant such relief merely because it is lawful
to do so. Section 20 is reproduced hereunder:- 20.2 The specific performance is an equitable relief. Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 preserves judicial discretion. The
Court is not bound to grant specific relief merely because it is
lawful to do so. The relief sought under Section 20 is not
automatic as the Court is required to see the totality of the
circumstances which are to be assessed by the Court in the light of
facts and circumstances of each case. 20.3 The specific performance is usually granted where
substantial sale consideration has been paid and the possession of
the property has been delivered to the purchaser.
20.4 In the event of any delay/inaction on the part of the
purchaser, it would be inequitable to give the relief of specific
performance to the purchaser. The rationale behind refusal of the
Court to grant the specific performance where long time has gone
by is that the prices of the property may have increased many times
with the passage of time and it would be injustice to a person who
has not received the sale consideration within the time stipulated in
the agreement. 20.5 If under the terms of the contract, the plaintiff gets an unfair
advantage over the defendant, the Court may not exercise its
discretion in favour of the plaintiff. So also specific relief may not
be granted if the defendant would be put to undue hardship which
he did not foresee at the time of agreement. If it is inequitable to RFA No.83/2007 Page 87 of 125 grant specific relief, then also the Court would desist from granting
a decree to the plaintiff. 20.6 If the sale consideration fixed under the agreement is given
to the seller years after the agreement, great prejudice may be
caused to a seller who may have intended to purchase another
property with the sale consideration. 20.7 While a purchaser cannot be made to suffer because of Court
delays, one cannot lose sight of the fact that he retained the sale
consideration with him and the seller could not use the money
when he wanted. The Court also has to consider that whereas the
value of the property may have risen manifold with the passage of
time, the value of the sale consideration would have reduced due to
inflation. These factors have to be taken into consideration by the
Court. 20.8 The party who seeks specific performance being an equitable
relief, must come to the Court with clean hands. In other words, the
party who makes false allegations does not come with clean hands
and is not entitled to the equitable relief. 20.9 While exercising the discretion, the Court would take into
consideration the circumstances of the case, the conduct of parties,
and the motive behind the litigation. 20.10 The relevant judgments relating to Section 20 of the Specific
Relief Act, 1963 are as under:- A purchaser can no longer take shelter under the principle
 that time is not of essence in performance of contracts
 relating to immovable property, to cover his delays, laches,
 breaches and 'non-readiness'. The precedents from an era,
 when high inflation was unknown, holding that time is not of
 the essence of the contract in regard to immovable
 properties, may no longer apply, not because the principle
 laid down therein is unsound or erroneous, but the
 circumstances that existed when the said principle was
 evolved, no longer exist. In these days of galloping
 increases in prices of immovable properties, to hold that
 a vendor who took an earnest money of say about 10% of
 the sale price and agreed for three months or four
 months as the period for performance, did not intend
 that time should be the essence, will be a cruel joke on
 him, and will result in injustice. Adding to the misery is
 the delay in disposal of cases relating to specific
 performance, as suits and appeals therefrom routinely
 take two to three decades to attain finality. As a result, an
 owner agreeing to sell a property for rupees one lakh and
 received rupees ten thousand as advance may be
 required to execute a sale deed a quarter century later by
 receiving the remaining rupees ninety thousand, when
 the property value has risen to a crore of rupees. xxx xxx xxx 43. Till the issue is considered in an appropriate case, we
 can only reiterate what has been suggested in K.S.
 Vidyanadam [(1997) 3 SCC 1]: performance, where equity shifts in favour of
 the purchaser.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

20.10.3 In Parakunnan Veetill Joseph's Son Mathew v.
Nedumbara Kuruvila 's Son, 1987 Supp SCC 340, the Supreme
Court held that the motive behind the litigation should also enter
into the judicial verdict. The Court should take care to see that it is
not used as an instrument of oppression to have an unfair
advantage to the plaintiff. 20.10.4 In Lourdu Mari David v. Louis Chinnaya
Arogiaswamy , (1996) 5 SCC 589, the Supreme Court held that the
party who seeks to avail of the equitable jurisdiction of a Court and RFA No.83/2007 Page 91 of 125 specific performance being equitable relief, must come to the Court
with clean hands. In other words the party who makes false
allegations does not come with clean hands and is not entitled to
the equitable relief. 20.10.5 In K. Narendra v. Riviera Apartments (P) Ltd. ,
(1999) 5 SCC 77, the Supreme Court held that the performance of
the contract involving some hardship on the defendant which he
did not foresee while non-performance involving no such hardship
on the plaintiff, is one of the circumstances in which the Court may
properly exercise discretion not to decree specific performance.
However, mere inadequacy of consideration or the mere fact that
the contract is onerous to the defendant or improvident in its
nature, shall not constitute an unfair advantage to the plaintiff over
the defendant or unforeseeable hardship on the defendant. 20.10.6 In A.C. Arulappan v. Ahalya Naik (smt), (2001) 6
SCC 600, the Supreme Court held that if under the terms of the
contract the plaintiff gets an unfair advantage over the defendant,
the Court may not exercise its discretion in favour of the plaintiff.
Also, specific relief may not be granted if the defendant would be
put to undue hardship which he did not foresee at the time of
agreement. If it is inequitable to grant specific relief, then also the
Court would desist from granting a decree to the plaintiff. 20.10.7 In Bal Krishna v. Bhagwan Das , (2008) 12 SCC 145,
the Supreme Court held that while exercising the discretion, the
Court would take into consideration the circumstances of the case,
the conduct of parties, and their respective interests under the RFA No.83/2007 Page 92 of 125 contract. No specific performance of a contract, though it is not
vitiated by fraud or misrepresentation, can be granted if it would
give an unfair advantage to the plaintiff and where the performance
of the contract would involve some hardship on the defendant,
which he did not foresee. 20.10.8 In G. Jayashree v. Bhagwandas S. Patel , (2009) 3
SCC 141, the Supreme Court held that the plaintiff is expected to
approach the Court with clean hands. His conduct plays an
important role in the matter of exercise of discretionary jurisdiction
by a Court of law. The Courts ordinarily would not grant any relief
in favour of the person who approaches the Court with a pair of
dirty hands. 20.10.9 In Krishna Sweet House v. Gurbhej Singh,
MANU/DE/2851/2012 , this Court held that in certain cases where
substantial consideration i.e. at least 50% of the consideration is
paid, or possession of the property is delivered under the agreement
to sell in addition to paying advance price, the proposed buyer is
vigilant for his rights and he files the suit soon after entering into
the agreement to sell, then in accordance with totality of facts and
circumstances, Courts may decree specific performance. 20.10.10 In Laxmi Devi v. Mahavir Singh,
MANU/DE/1930/2012 , this Court held that unless substantial
consideration is paid out of the total amount of sale consideration,
the Courts would lean against granting the specific performance
inasmuch as by the loss of time, the balance sale consideration
which is granted at a much later date, is not sufficient to enable the RFA No.83/2007 Page 93 of 125 proposed seller to buy an equivalent property which could have
been bought from the balance sale consideration if the same was
paid on the due date. 20.10.11 In Jinesh Kumar Jain v. Iris Paintal,
MANU/DE/3387/2012 , this Court held that the plaintiff is entitled
to decree of specific performance where the plaintiff has done
substantial acts in consequence of a contract/agreement to sell.
Substantial acts obviously would mean and include payment of
substantial amounts of money. The plaintiff may have paid 50% or
more of the consideration or having paid a lesser consideration he
could be in possession pursuant to the agreement to sell or
otherwise is in the possession of the subject property or other
substantial acts have been performed by the plaintiff, and acts
which can be said to be substantial acts under Section 20(3) .
However, where the acts are not substantial i.e. merely 5% or 10%
etc of the consideration is paid i.e. less than substantial
consideration is paid, (and for which a rough benchmark can be
taken as 50% of the consideration), and/or plaintiff is not in
possession of the subject land, the plaintiff is not entitled to the
discretionary relief of specific performance. 20.10.12 In Sushil Jain v. Meharban Singh , 2012 (131) DRJ
421, this Court held that the plaintiff cannot be held entitled to the
discretionary relief of specific performance inter alia for the
reasons that not only the prices would have gone up about 20 to 30
times during this period but also that the plaintiff has taken benefit
of the balance of about 87% of the consideration which he would RFA No.83/2007 Page 94 of 125 have wisely invested in any other assets including in an immovable
property. 21. Summary of Principles

21.1 Truth should be the Guiding Star in the Entire Judicial
 Process

 Truth is foundation of Justice. Dispensation of justice, based on
 truth, is an essential and inevitable feature in the justice delivery
 system. Justice is truth in action.  It is the duty of the Judge to discover truth to do complete justice.
 The entire judicial system has been created only to discern and find
 out the real truth.  The justice based on truth would establish peace in the society.
 For the common man truth and justice are synonymous. So when
 truth fails, justice fails. People would have faith in Courts when
 truth alone triumphs.  Every trial is voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. Truth
 should be reigning objective of every trial. Judge has to play an
 active role to discover the truth and he should explore all avenues
 open to him in order to discover the truth.  The Trial Judge is the key-man in the judicial system and he is
 in a unique position to strongly impact the quality of a trial to
 affect system's capacity to produce and assimilate truth. The
 Trial Judge should explore all avenues open to him in order to
 discover the truth. Trial Judge has the advantage of looking at
 the demeanour of the witnesses. In spite of the right of appeal,
 there are many cases in which appeals are not filed. It is mostly
 with the Trial Judge rather than with the appellate Judge that the
 members of the general public come in contact, whether as
 parties or as witnesses. 21.2 What is ‗Truth' and how to discover it

 Law's Truth is synonymous with facts established in accordance
 with the procedure prescribed by law.  The purpose of judicial inquiry is to establish the existence of facts
 in accordance with law.  Facts are proved through lawfully prescribed methods and
 standards.  The belief of Courts about existence of facts must be based on
 reason, rationality and justification, strictly on the basis of relevant
 and admissible evidence, judicial notice or legally permitted
 presumptions. It must be based on a prescribed methodology of
 proof. It must be objective and verifiable. 21.3 Section 3 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872

 ―Evidence‖ of a fact and ―proof‖ of a fact are not synonymous
 terms. ―Proof‖ in the strict sense means the effect of evidence.
 A fact is said to be proved when, after considering the matters
 before it, the Court either believes it to exist, or considers its
 existence so probable that a prudent man ought, under the
 circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the supposition
 that it exists.  The term ―after considering the matters before it‖ in Section 3 of the Evidence Act means that for judging whether a fact is or not
 proved, the Court is entitled to take into consideration all matters
 before it which shall include the statement of the witnesses,
 admissions of the parties, confession of the accused, documents
 proved in evidence, judicial notice, demeanour of witnesses, local
 inspections and presumptions.  The term ―believes it to exist‖ in the definition of ―proof‖ is a
 ―judicial belief‖ of the Judge based on logical/rational thinking and
 the power of reason, and the Court is required to give reasons for
 the belief. The reasons are live links between the mind of the
 decision maker and the belief formed. Reasons convey judicial
 idea in words and sentences. Reasons are rational explanation of
 the conclusion. Reason is the very life of law. It is the heart beat
 of every belief and without it, law becomes lifeless. Reasons also
 ensure transparency and fairness in the decision making process.
 The reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity. Recording of RFA No.83/2007 Page 96 of 125 reasons also play as a vital restraint on possible arbitrary use of the
 judicial power. The recording of reasons serve the following four
 purposes:-  Presumption of fact is a rule in law of evidence that a fact
 otherwise doubtful may be inferred from certain other proved facts.
 The source of presumptions is the common course of natural
 events, human conduct and public or private business, and the
 Section proceeds on the assumption that just as in nature there
 prevails a fixed order of things, so the volitional acts of men placed
 in similar circumstances exhibits, on the whole, a distinct
 uniformity which is traceable to the impulses of human nature,
 customs and habits of society.  The illustrations though taken from different spheres of human
 activity, are not exhaustive. They are based upon human
 experience and have to be applied in the context of the facts of
 each case. The illustrations are merely examples of circumstances
 in which certain presumptions may be made. Other presumptions
 of a similar kind in similar circumstances can be made under the
 provisions of the section itself.  Presumption in law of evidence is a rule indicating the stage of
 shifting the burden of proof. From a certain fact or facts the Court
 can draw an inference and that would remain until such inference
 is either disproved or dispelled.  Presumptions of fact can be used by the Courts in the course of
 administration of justice to remove lacunae in the chain of direct
 evidence before it. The function of a presumption is to fill a gap in
 evidence.  Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act applies to both civil and
 criminal proceedings.  Whether or not a presumption can be drawn under the section in a
 particular case depends ultimately upon the facts and
 circumstances of each case. No hard and fast rule can be laid RFA No.83/2007 Page 98 of 125 down. Human behaviour is so complex and room must be left for
 play in the joints. It is not possible to formulate a series of exact
 propositions and con-flue human behaviour within straitjackets.
 No rule of evidence can guide the Judge on the fundamental
 question whether evidence as to a relevant fact should be believed
 or not. Secondly, assuming that the Judge believes very few cases,
 guide him on the question what inference he should draw from it as
 to assist a Judge in the very smallest degree in determining the
 master question of the whole subject - whether and how far he
 ought to believe what the witnesses say? The rules of evidence do
 not guide what inference the Judge ought to draw from the facts in
 which, after considering the statements made to him, he believes.
 In every judicial proceeding whatever these two questions - Is this
 true, and, if it is true what then? - ought to be constantly present in
 the mind of the Judge, and the rules of evidence do not throw the
 smallest portion of light upon them. 21.5 Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
 Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 invests the Judge
 with plenary powers to put any question to any witness or party; in
 any form, at any time, about any fact relevant or irrelevant. Section
 165 is intended to arm the Judge with the most extensive power
 possible for the purpose of getting at the truth. The effect of this
 Section is that in order to get to the bottom of the matter before it,
 the Court will be able to look at and inquire into every fact and
 thus possibly acquire valuable indicative evidence which may lead
 to other evidence strictly relevant and admissible. The Court is
 not, however, permitted to found its judgment on any but relevant
 statements.  The object of a trial is, first to ascertain truth by the light of reason,
 and then, do justice upon the basis of the truth and the Judge is not
 only justified but required to elicit a fact, wherever the interest of
 truth and justice would suffer, if he did not.  The Judge contemplated by Section 165 is not a mere umpire at a
 wit-combat between the lawyers for the parties whose only duty is
 to enforce the rules of the game and declare at the end of the RFA No.83/2007 Page 99 of 125 combat who has won and who has lost. He is expected, and indeed
 it is his duty, to explore all avenues open to him in order to
 discover the truth and to that end, question witnesses on points
 which the lawyers for the parties have either overlooked or left
 obscure or willfully avoided. A Judge, who at the trial merely sits
 and records evidence without caring so to conduct the examination
 of the witnesses that every point is brought out, is not fulfilling his
 duty. 21.6 False claims and defences
 In the last 40 years, a new creed of litigants have cropped up who
 do not have any respect for truth. They shamelessly resort to
 falsehood and unethical means for achieving their goals. In order
 to meet the challenge posed by this new creed of litigants, the
 Courts have, from time to time, evolved new rules and it is now
 well established that a litigant, who attempts to pollute the stream
 of justice or who touches the pure fountain of justice with tainted
 hands, is not entitled to any relief, interim or final.  False claims and defences are serious problems with real estate
 litigation, predominantly because of ever escalating prices of the
 real estate. Litigation pertaining to valuable real estate properties is
 dragged on by unscrupulous litigants in the hope that the other
 party will tire out and ultimately would settle with them by paying
 a huge amount. This happens because of the enormous delay in
 adjudication of cases in our Courts. If pragmatic approach is
 adopted, then this problem can be minimized to a large extent. It is
 a matter of common experience that Court's otherwise scarce time
 is consumed or more appropriately, wasted in a large number of
 uncalled for cases.  Dishonest and unnecessary litigations are a huge strain on the
 judicial system. The Courts continue to be flooded with litigation
 with false and incoherent pleas and tainted evidence led by the
 parties. The judicial system in the country is choked and such
 litigants are consuming Courts' time for a wrong cause. Efforts are
 made by the parties to steal a march over their rivals by resorting
 to false and incoherent statements made before the Court. 21.7 Imposition of Costs
 Imposition of actual, realistic or proper costs and or ordering
 prosecution would go a long way in controlling the tendency of
 introducing false pleadings and forged and fabricated documents
 by the litigants. The cost should be equal to the benefits derived by
 the litigants, and the harm and deprivation suffered by the rightful
 person so as to check the frivolous litigations and prevent the
 people from reaping a rich harvest of illegal acts through Court.
 The costs imposed by the Courts must be the real costs equal to the
 deprivation suffered by the rightful person and also considering
 how long they have compelled the other side to contest and defend
 the litigation in various courts. In appropriate cases, the Courts
 may consider ordering prosecution otherwise it may not be
 possible to maintain purity and sanctity of judicial proceedings.
 The parties raise fanciful claims and contests because the Courts
 are reluctant to order prosecution.  It is the duty of the Courts to see that such wrongdoers are
 discouraged at every step and even if they succeed in prolonging
 the litigation, ultimately they must suffer the costs for prolonging
 the litigation. Imposition of actual, realistic or proper costs and/or
 ordering prosecution in appropriate cases would go a long way in
 controlling the tendency of filing false cases.
21.8 Section 16 (c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963
 In a suit for specific performance, the plaintiff has to prove a valid
 agreement of sale; the breach of the contract by the defendant; and
 readiness and willingness of the plaintiff to perform his part of the
 contract.  Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act mandates ―readiness‖ and
 ―willingness‖ on the part of the plaintiff as a condition precedent to
 seek specific performance.  The ―readiness‖ and ―willingness‖ are two separate issues. The
 former refers to financial capacity whereas the latter depends upon
 the intention of the purchaser.  ―Readiness‖ and ―willingness‖ cannot be treated as a straitjacket
 formula. It has to be determined from the entirety of facts and
 circumstances relevant to the intention and conduct of the party
 concerned.  The Court must take into consideration the conduct of the plaintiff
 prior and subsequent to the filing of the suit along with other
 attending circumstances to adjudge the ―readiness‖ and
 ―willingness‖ of the plaintiff.  When the parties enter into an agreement relating to an immovable
 property, they amicably agree on the total sale consideration,
 earnest money as well as the payment of the balance sale
 consideration. If both the parties are ready and willing, they
 usually complete the transaction within the stipulated time in the
 following manner:- The relief sought under Section 20 is not automatic as the Court is RFA No.83/2007 Page 103 of 125 required to see the totality of the circumstances which are to be
 assessed by the Court in the light of facts and circumstances of
 each case.  The specific performance is usually granted where substantial sale
 consideration has been paid and the possession of the property has
 been delivered to the purchaser.  In the event of any delay/inaction on the part of the purchaser, it
 would be inequitable to give the relief of specific performance to
 the purchaser. The rationale behind refusal of the Court to grant
 the specific performance where long time has gone by is that the
 prices of the property may have increased many times with the
 passage of time and it would be injustice to a person who has not
 received the sale consideration within the time stipulated in the
 agreement.  If under the terms of the contract, the plaintiff gets an unfair
 advantage over the defendant, the Court may not exercise its
 discretion in favour of the plaintiff. So also specific relief may not
 be granted if the defendant would be put to undue hardship which
 he did not foresee at the time of agreement. If it is inequitable to
 grant specific relief, then also the Court would desist from granting
 a decree to the plaintiff.  The party who seeks specific performance being an equitable relief
 must come to the Court with clean hands. In other words, the party
 who makes false allegations does not come with clean hands and is
 not entitled to the equitable relief.  The Court has to consider whether it would be fair, just and
 equitable. The Court is guided by the principles of justice, equity
 and good conscience.  While exercising the discretion, the Court would take into
 consideration the circumstances of the case, the conduct of parties,
 and the motive behind the litigation. 22. Admitted facts in the present case
22.1 Agreement to sell dated 5th July, 1996 (Ex.P-1) for sale of
the suit property No.53, New Krishna Nagar, Delhi-110051 by the RFA No.83/2007 Page 104 of 125 defendant to the plaintiff for a total consideration of `13,95,000/-.
Payment of earnest money of `1,50,000/- by the plaintiff to the
defendant on 5th July, 1996 at the time of execution of Ex.P-1.
Balance sale consideration agreed to be paid by 5th October, 1996. 22.2 Agreement to sell dated 22nd August, 1996 (Ex.P-2) on the
same terms and conditions except that further payment of
`50,000/- to be made by the plaintiff to the defendant. 22.3 Extension of the date of completion of sale from 5 th October,
1996 to 30th October, 1996. 22.4 The plaintiff did not make the payment of entire sale
consideration to the defendant by 30th October, 1996. 22.5 The Plaintiff made a complaint to the police on 23rd June,
1997 (Ex.P-4) in which she stated that the defendant is not
returning the earnest money with penalty and interest. 22.6 The defendant issued a legal notice to the plaintiff on 31st
July, 1997 (Ex.P-5) intimating her that she has committed breach
and therefore, the agreement stood cancelled and the earnest
money was forfeited. 22.7 The plaintiff did not reply to the aforesaid notice. 22.8 The plaintiff neither drafted the sale deed nor sought the
approval thereof from the defendant. 22.9 The plaintiff did not purchase the requisite stamp papers for
preparation of the sale deed. 22.10 The plaintiff did not issue any notice whatsoever to the
defendant to demand the title documents or for fixing date for
execution/registration of the sale deed. 22.11 The plaintiff did not issue any notice whatsoever to intimate
the defendant that she was ready with the balance sale
consideration on 30th October, 1996 and that the defendant was in
breach. 22.12 The plaintiff did not issue any notice to the defendant to
demand performance of the agreements, Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2. 22.13 The plaintiff was aware that the defendant had to purchase
another property from the sale proceeds of the suit property.
(Admitted by PW-1 in cross-examination)

22.14 The defendant had shown the original title deed of the suit
property to the plaintiff as well as her husband (Admitted by PW-1
in her cross-examination)

22.15 The plaintiff instituted the suit for specific performance on
21st August, 1997 i.e. after more than nine months of the alleged
breach. 23. Disputed Facts

23.1 The defendant has denied the two endorsements made on the
back of page ‗1' of the agreement - Ex.P-2. The defendant has
also denied the receipt of `1,70,000/- mentioned in the first
endorsement. The defendant's case is that he signed the
endorsements under pressure and threats from the police at the
instance of the plaintiff. 23.2 The defendant has disputed that the plaintiff was ready and
willing to make the payment of balance sale consideration to the
defendant on 30th October, 1996 and that she intimated the plaintiff
to visit the office of Sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996 for
execution of the sale deed. According to the defendant, the
plaintiff was never ready and willing to perform her part of the
contract and she never intimated the defendant about her visit to
the office of the sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996. 23.3 The plaintiff has disputed that the defendant agreed to sell
the said property to purchase another property for his residence and
he entered into an agreement dated 7th September, 1996 to
purchase property no. F-1, Radhey Puri, Delhi for a consideration
of `10,10,000/-. The defendant claims to have made the payment
of `1,50,000/- to the vendor of Radhey Puri property and the
balance sale consideration had to be paid by 20th October, 1996.
The defendant further claims that the said agreement got frustrated
due to the breach by the plaintiff to make the balance sale RFA No.83/2007 Page 107 of 125 consideration by 30th October, 1996 and the defendant has lost
`1,50,000/- in that transaction. 24. Findings of this Court

Applying the aforesaid principles of law to the facts of the present
case, the findings of this Court are as under:- Finding
  On consideration of all the matters before the Court as
 defined in Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, including
 the statement of the witnesses, the admission of the parties,
 the documents proved in evidence and the presumptions, this
 Court believes to be true that the plaintiff made the payment
 of `1,70,000/- to the defendant on 20th August, 1996 and
 both the endorsements made on the back of agreement -
 Ex.P-2 are voluntary. The Court believes that the denial of
 the payment of `1,70,000/- and two endorsements on the
 back of Ex.P-2 by the defendant to be false. The payment of `1,70,000/- by the plaintiff to the
 defendant and the two endorsements on the back of RFA No.83/2007 Page 108 of 125 Ex.P-2 therefore stand ―proved‖ within the meaning of Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act. Reasons for the aforesaid finding
  The defendant has admitted the extension of date of the
 agreement up to 30th October, 1996 in the written statement
 as well as the evidence.  The plaintiff has deposed on oath that both the endorsements
 on the back of Ex.P-2 were made by the defendant in his
 own handwriting and signed by the defendant in her
 presence.  The defendant has admitted his handwriting on the
 endorsements on the back of Ex.P-2. The defendant's
 contention that he wrote and signed the endorsements on the
 back of Ex.P-2 under police pressure is not believable as the
 defendant has not made any complaint whatsoever against
 any police officer at any stage.  It is not the defendant's case that the police pressure
 continued after making of the endorsement. The defendant
 could have lodged the complaint after the police pressure
 was over.  The defendant has not named any person who exerted
 pressure on him.  The defendant has also not disclosed what pressure was
 exerted on him.  The defendant has also not challenged the endorsements
 made on the back of Ex.P-2 in any Court of law.  The defendant has not mentioned the execution of
 endorsements on the back of Ex.P-2 under police pressure in
 his legal notice dated 31st July, 1997.  This plea was set up by the defendant for the first time in his
 written statement filed on 5th February, 1998 which is almost
 1 year and 5 months after the alleged incident. A prudent
 seller would not behave in this manner.  The averments made by the defendant do not satisfy the test
 of common course of natural events, human conduct and
 public/private business in relation to the facts of this case
 and do not appear to have the ring of truth. 24.1.2 Disputed fact
 The defendant has disputed that the plaintiff was ready and
 willing to make the payment of balance sale consideration to
 the defendant on 30th October, 1996 and she intimated the
 plaintiff to visit the office of Sub-Registrar on 30th October,
 1996 for execution of the sale deed. Finding
  On consideration of all the matters before the Court as
 defined in Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, including
 the statement of witness, admission of parties, the documents
 proved in evidence and the presumptions, this Court believes
 it to be true that the plaintiff was ready with the balance sale
 consideration. However, this Court does not believe it to be RFA No.83/2007 Page 110 of 125 true that the plaintiff was willing to make the payment
 thereon to the defendant on 30th October, 1996.
 It is therefore ―proved‖ that the plaintiff was ready with
 the balance sale consideration on 30th October, 1996.
 However, it is ―disproved‖ that the plaintiff was
 ―willing‖ to make the payment of the balance sale
 consideration to the defendant on 30th October, 1996.
 Reasons
  The plaintiff has proved availability of `10,25,000/- with her
 on 30th October, 1996 by five demand drafts (Ex.PW-6/1 and
 PW-7/1 and PW-7/2). The plaintiff's contention that
 remaining `50,000/- was available with her in cash is also
 believable. As such, the plaintiff was ready to perform on
 30th October, 1996.  The defendant's contention that the balance sale
 consideration was not available with the plaintiff because
 she had borrowed the money from her father has no merit.
 The finding of the Trial Court based on the judgment of this
 Court in Raghunath Rai v. Jageshwar Prashad Sharma , AIR
 1999 Delhi 383 that if the buyer is in a position to borrow
 money to make the payment of the balance sale
 consideration, it would be sufficient to prove her readiness to
 make the payment, is correct and is upheld.  The plaintiff has proved to have visited the office of the Sub-
 Registrar on 30th October, 1996 by receipts Ex.P-3 and P-3A
 issued by the office of the Sub-Registrar. However, the RFA No.83/2007 Page 111 of 125 plaintiff's claim that she intimated the defendant about the
 visit to the office of Sub-Registrar does not appear to be true
 because the plaintiff did not issue any notice to the defendant
 on 30th October, 1996 or at any point thereafter. If the
 plaintiff had fixed the visit to the office of Sub-Registrar
 with the defendant, she would have certainly contacted the
 defendant to find out why the defendant did not visit and
 would have also issued a telegram/notice in the evening on
 30th October, 1996 itself to notify the breach to the
 defendant.  As per the addresses given in the memo of parties, both the
 parties are residing in close vicinity in the same locality.
 The plaintiff is the resident of 29, Ram Nagar, Delhi-110051
 whereas the defendant is the resident of 53, New Krishna
 Nagar, Delhi-110051. The plaintiff claims to have visited
 the office of the Sub-Registrar, Seelampur on 30th October,
 1996 at 10:00 am and waited the whole day for the
 defendant. Since there was no dispute between the parties
 on 30th October, 1996, the plaintiff ought to have visited the
 defendant who was staying in the close vicinity of the
 plaintiff and they could have together visited the office of
 the Sub-Registrar. It is quite strange and unnatural that after
 waiting for the whole day on 30th October, 1996 in the office
 of the Sub-Registrar, the plaintiff still chose not to visit the
 defendant to inquire as to why he did not visit the office of
 the Sub-Registrar. It is also unnatural that the plaintiff RFA No.83/2007 Page 112 of 125 cancelled the demand drafts for `10,25,000/- within a week
 without even contacting the defendant. There was no
 dispute between the parties at that time. Applying the test of
 common course of natural events and human conduct, it can
 be presumed that the plaintiff had unilaterally visited the
 office of the Sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996 without
 informing the defendant with the dishonest intention of
 creating the false evidence of willingness. That is why the
 plaintiff did not contact the defendant and rushed to get the
 drafts cancelled within a week.  The plaintiff, in her cross-examination, admitted that she
 never contacted the defendant before 30th October, 1996.
  If the defendant had agreed to visit the office of Sub-
 Registrar on 30th October, 1996, the plaintiff as an ordinary
 prudent person was unlikely to have not issued a notice to
 the defendant to notify the default and remained inactive,
 silent, dumb and mute unless he had any compelling reason.
 No such reason is revealed. The conduct offers indication
 about truth. The plaintiff's plea is inherently unconvincing
 and cannot be accepted. The plaintiff's conduct appears to
 be improbable, artificial, indifferent, irresponsible and
 inconsistent.  The plea of the plaintiff that she had fixed the date and time
 for visiting the office of the Sub-Registrar with the defendant
 on telephone does not appear to be true. Had it been true,
 the plaintiff would have certainly issued a telegram/notice in RFA No.83/2007 Page 113 of 125 the evening of 30th October, 1996 itself to notify the
 defendant. It appears that the plaintiff deliberately did not
 issue any notice to the defendant on 30th October, 1996 or at
 any point thereafter because she was apprehensive that the
 defendant may still be willing to perform. The natural
 inference which can be drawn under Section 114 is that the
 plaintiff wanted to build-up a false plea of readiness and
 willingness to institute a suit for specific performance.
  In the plaint, the plaintiff has averred that she visited the
 office of the Sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996 for
 execution of the sale deed whereas in cross-examination she
 deposed that the defendant told her that he would give the
 title deeds to her in the office of Sub-Registrar on 30th
 October, 1996 which is not believable and contrary to the
 common course of natural events. A seller ordinarily never
 parts with the original title deed till receipt of the balance
 sale consideration. The plaintiff also would not have parted
 with the balance sale consideration just against delivery of
 original title deeds. Secondly, if the defendant was ready to
 part with the original title deed, there was no need to visit the
 office of the Sub-Register. The plaintiff had admitted in her
 cross-examination that she had seen the original title deed of
 the subject property. The plaintiff had never demanded the
 title documents from the defendant and this plea was set for
 the first time in the plaint. The plaintiff's conduct appears to
 be improbable, artificial, indifferent and inconsistent.  The willingness of the purchaser has to be inferred from his
 conduct. If the purchaser would have been willing, he would
 have drafted the sale deed and sent the draft sale deed to the
 defendant for approval and thereafter procured the stamp
 papers to prepare the sale deed. The plea of the plaintiff that
 she did not purchase the stamp papers or draft the sale deed
 because the defendant has not handed over the original sale
 deed is not believable by applying the test of common sense
 and normal human conduct as no seller would hand over the
 original sale deed before receiving the complete sale
 consideration.  Whereas the plaintiff never issued any notice to demand
 performance to the defendant, the defendant issued a legal
 notice dated 31st July, 1997 to the plaintiff to notify the
 forfeiture of the earnest money to which the plaintiff chose
 not to send any reply, may be because the plaintiff had
 nothing to controvert.  The plaintiff made police complaint dated 23rd June, 1997.
 The contention of the plaintiff about police complaint that
 the defendant was giving threats does not appear to be true.
 If the defendant had refused to sell the property and had
 forfeited the earnest money, there was no occasion for the
 defendant to give any threat to the plaintiff. It appears that
 the plaintiff made the police complaint with an intention of
 putting pressure on the defendant to refund the earnest
 money. The plaintiff's unwillingness can be inferred from RFA No.83/2007 Page 115 of 125 her complaint dated 23rd June, 1997 to the police in which
 she stated that the defendant has not refunded the
 consideration along with the penalty and interest despite
 repeated demands. There is no reference either to the non-
 supply of title documents by the defendant or the willingness
 of the plaintiff to buy the suit property.  Even during the course of the hearing, the defendant could
 not give any justification as to why the plaintiff did not issue
 any notice to the defendant on 30th October, 1996 to notify
 that she was waiting for whole day in the office of the Sub-
 Registrar and to find out why the defendant defaulted; why
 no notice was issued by the plaintiff to notify that the
 defendant was in breach and to demand performance; why
 the plaintiff did not demand performance in the police
 complaint dated 23rd June, 1997; why the plaintiff did not
 send reply to the legal notice dated 31st July, 1997 and why
 the plaintiff waited for more than nine months to file the suit.
 A prudent purchaser would not behave in this manner and
 applying the test of common course of natural events and
 human conduct, it is presumed that the plaintiff was not
 willing to perform her part of the contract. The silence in the
 period after agreement and absence of correspondence is a
 strong indication of the intention of the plaintiff that she was
 not willing to perform her part of the contract.  The finding of the Trial Court that the defendant would not
 suffer any hardship if the decree of specific performance is
 passed is clearly erroneous inasmuch as the plaintiff was
 aware that the defendant has to purchase another property
 after selling the suit property. The property prices have risen
 manifold since 1996 and the defendant would not be in a
 position to buy any alternative property with the balance sale
 consideration. The specific performance would therefore,
 certainly cause great hardship to the defendant.  The finding of the Trial Court that no adverse inference can
 be drawn against the plaintiff for not purchasing the stamp
 papers is also erroneous. Applying the test of common
 course of natural events and human conduct provided in Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, it can be presumed
 that the plaintiff had to purchase the stamp papers in advance
 and prepare the sale deed thereon before visiting the office
 of the Sub-Registrar. It is the plaintiff's case that she visited
 the office of the Sub-Registrar on 30th October, 1996 for
 execution of the sale deed which was not possible unless
 stamp papers were purchased in advance.  The plaintiff has referred to and relied upon Motilal Jain v.
 Ramdasi Devi ( supra) and Faquir Chand v. Sudesh Kumari (supra) in which the specific performance was granted to the
 purchaser who was found to be ever ready and willing
 whereas in the present case, the plaintiff has been found to RFA No.83/2007 Page 117 of 125 be in breach of the contract because she was not willing to
 make the payment of the balance sale consideration to the
 defendant. In that view of the matter, the aforesaid
 judgments do not help the plaintiff.  The plaintiff has relied upon the Satya Jain v. Anis Ahmed
 Rushdie (supra) in support of the contention that specific
 performance may be allowed by the payment of market price
 according to circle rates. In Satya Jain v. Anis Ahmed
 Rushdie (supra), the Supreme Court granted specific
 performance because the purchaser was found to be ready
 and willing whereas the seller was in breach. In the present
 case, the plaintiff has been found to be unwilling to perform
 her part of the contract and therefore, the relief for specific
 performance is not available to the plaintiff.  The Trial Court has gravely erred in not even applying its
 mind on the question of ―willingness‖ which was the main
 bone of contention between the parties. It appears that the
 learned Trial Court did not differentiate between the
 ―readiness‖ and ―willingness‖. Whereas the ―readiness‖
 relates to the financial capacity of the purchaser,
 ―willingness‖ relates to the intention of the purchaser. The
 finding of the learned Trial Court that the plaintiff was
 willing to make the payment of the balance sale
 consideration to the defendant on 30th October, 1996 is
 perverse and is set aside. 24.1.3 Disputed fact
 The plaintiff has disputed that the defendant agreed to sell
 the said property to purchase another property for his
 residence and he entered into an agreement dated 7th
 September, 1996 to purchase property no. F-1, Radhey Puri,
 Delhi for a consideration of `10,10,000/-.The defendant
 claims to have made the payment of `1,50,000/- to the
 vendor of Radhey Puri property and the balance sale
 consideration had to be paid by 20th October, 1996. The
 defendant further claims that the said agreement got
 frustrated due to the breach by the plaintiff to make the
 balance sale consideration by 30th October, 1996 and the
 defendant has lost `1,50,000/- in that transaction.
 Finding
  The agreement dated 7th September, 1996 set up by the
 defendant is ―not proved‖. The frustration of the alleged
 agreement dated 7th September, 1996 and the loss of
 `1,50,000/- by the defendant is also ―not proved‖.
 However, it is ―proved‖ that the defendant had agreed to
 sell the suit property to the plaintiff to purchase some
 other property for his residence from the sale
 consideration since the plaintiff has admitted the same in
 her cross-examination. Reasons
  The defendant has not placed the original agreement dated
 7th September, 1996 on record. However, the defendant has
 placed the photocopy of the same on record which has not
 been proved and therefore, marked as Mark ‗A'. The RFA No.83/2007 Page 119 of 125 defendant has withheld the best evidence in the form of
 original agreement dated 7th September, 1996.
  The defendant has pleaded the frustration of the agreement
 dated 7th September, 1996 and the loss of `1,50,000/- in that
 transaction. However, the plaintiff has not placed on record
 the relevant documents relating to the said transaction. The
 oral testimony of DW1 and DW2 are not sufficient to prove
 this plea. The defendant has withheld the evidence relating
 to the frustration of the alleged agreement dated 7 th
 September, 1996 and the loss of `1,50,000/- in that
 transaction.  The defendant has deposed on oath that he wanted to sell the
 suit property to purchase another property for his residence
 which has been admitted by the plaintiff in her cross-
 examination. 24.2 Findings on Issues
24.2.1 Findings on Issues no.1, 2 and 3
 ―1. Whether the plaintiff was ready and willing to
 perform her part of the contract? 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to decree under
 Specific Performance and Possession? 3. Whether agreement dated 5th July, 1996 and 22nd
 August, 1996 stood cancelled and earnest money
 stood forfeited?‖
  The plaintiff was ready with the balance sale consideration
 of `10,75,000/- on 30th October, 1996. However, the
 plaintiff was not willing to make the payment of the balance RFA No.83/2007 Page 120 of 125 sale consideration to the defendant and she unilaterally
 visited the office of the Sub-Registrar along with the balance
 sale consideration with the dishonest intention of creating
 false evidence of ―willingness‖.  The plaintiff has committed the breach of the agreements
 Ex.P-1 and P-2 and therefore is not entitled to the decree of
 specific performance against the defendant.
  Even assuming for the sake of argument that the plaintiff
 was willing to perform, still she is not entitled to the
 discretionary relief under Section 20 of the Specific Relief
 Act for the following reasons: The prices of immovable properties in Delhi have
 risen about 25 to 30 times in the last 15 years and
 therefore, the balance sale consideration of
 `10,75,000/- is not sufficient to enable the defendant
 to buy an equivalent property which he could have
 purchased if the payment would have been made on
 30th October, 1996. If money is paid after years, what
 alternative property can the defendant purchase with
 that money. Constant rise in prices have been RFA No.83/2007 Page 121 of 125 recognized by the Courts to refuse exercise of
 discretion under Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act. (ii) The plaintiff has not approached the Court with clean
 hands and has made false claim and is therefore
 disentitled to the equitable relief on this ground also. (iii) Delay of more than nine months on the part of the
 plaintiff in filing the suit. Merely because there is
 limitation for filing a suit for specific performance
 does not mean that a suit which is filed much after the
 alleged breach, such a suit for specific performance
 ought to be decreed.  The detailed reasons are given in the para 24.1.2 above
 which are not repeated herein for the sake of brevity. The
 contrary findings of the learned Trial Court with respect to
 Issue nos.1, 2 and 3 are erroneous and are set aside.
24.2.2 Findings on Issues no.4 and 5
 ―4. Whether the Defendant did not receive additional
 amount of `1,70,000/- from the plaintiff as alleged
 in the written statement? 5. Whether time was not extended to perform
 agreement dated 22.08.1996?‖
  The plaintiff made additional payment of `1,70,000/- to the
 defendant on 22nd August, 1996.  The defendant made two endorsements on the back of
 Ex.P-2 - agreement dated 22nd August, 1996 and extended
 the date of the agreement upto 30th October, 1996.  The detailed reasons are given in the para 24.1.1 above
 which are not repeated herein for the sake of brevity. The
 findings of the learned Trial Court with respect to Issue
 nos.4 and 5 are correct and are upheld. 25. Conclusion
25.1 The plaintiff is not entitled to the relief of specific
performance against the defendant as the plaintiff has committed
the breach of the agreements Ex.P-1 and P-2. 25.2 The plaintiff has paid a sum of `3,20,000/- to the defendant
out of which the earnest money amount is `1,50,000/-. The
agreements - Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2 provide for forfeiture of earnest
money of `1,50,000/- by the defendant in the event of breach by
the plaintiff. As such, the remaining sale consideration of
`1,70,000/- is refundable to the plaintiff under the terms of
agreements - Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2. However, during the course of
final hearing of this appeal, the plaintiff offered to refund the
earnest money to the plaintiff . 25.3 This Court is of the view that both the parties have
shamelessly resorted to falsehood and unethical means for
achieving their goals. It appears that the plaintiff was not willing
to purchase the suit property and she approached the defendant for
refund of `3,20,000/- and even filed a police complaint to
pressurize the defendant. The defendant was entitled to forfeit the
earnest money of `1,50,000/- in terms of the agreement - Ex.P-1
and Ex.P-2 and the matter may have been closed if the defendant RFA No.83/2007 Page 123 of 125 would have shown the grace to refund at least the refundable
amount of `1,70,000/-. However, the defendant out of greed,
declined to refund even the refundable amount of `1,70,000/- to
the plaintiff whereupon the plaintiff filed a suit for specific
performance raising false claim of ―willingness‖. The defendant
had a good defense but he backed it up with a dishonest and false
evidence by denying the two endorsements on the back of Ex.P-2
and the payment of `1,70,000/- which were ultimately proved
before the Trial Court. Since the relief of specific performance is
being denied to the plaintiff, this Court is of the view that to
balance the equities, the defendant should refund the entire amount
of `3,20,000/- along with interest thereon @ 12% per annum from
the date of filing of the suit till realization to the plaintiff. The
plaintiff has deposited the balance sale consideration of
`10,75,000/- with the Trial Court in terms of the impugned
judgment and decree for specific performance which is to be
refunded back to the plaintiff. 25.4 Consequently, the appeal is allowed, the impugned judgment
is set aside and the plaintiff's suit relating to the prayers of specific
performance and possession is dismissed. However, a decree for
`3,20,000/- along with interest thereon at the rate of 12% per
annum with effect from the date of filing of the suit upto the date
of payment is passed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
defendant. The defendant shall maintain status quo with respect to
the suit property till the aforesaid refund is made to the plaintiff. 25.5 The defendant is not entitled to any costs of this appeal in
view of the false defense raised relating to the endorsements made
on the back of the agreement (Ex.P-2) and the payment of
`1,70,000/- mentioned therein. 25.6 The amount deposited by the plaintiff in the Trial Court in
terms of the impugned judgment be refunded to the plaintiff along
with interest, if any, accrued thereon. J.R. MIDHA, J
 MARCH 08, 2013 RFA No.83/2007 Page 125 of 125