SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How byjus scams people
DATE: 2021-04-14
SCORE: 1960
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/mqoypd/how_byjus_scams_people/

--- POST TEXT ---

Initially byju raveendran marketed himself as serial CAT topper and found out that people can spend money on education. His main base was manipal university from where many of his initial employees were hired.Infact, the chief of sales, the number two in byjus is from manipal. He is like that spectacle fellow in wolf of wall Street.The company, despite results, marketed itself as a very popular and successful CAT coaching. Byju was himself a very good orator, who showed a few mathematics tricks to the audience, and people started thinking that he is teaching them for CAT. People were simply paying him to watch him speak. 

Now, after funding, and expanding to school education, they have clearly understood child psychology. The child will never get a tablet for gaming or porn from parents, but only for education. Behind a child insistence of buying the courses is the greed of getting a tab for playing games or porn.They were also contacted by third party loan NBFCs, who have the power to affect CIBIL scores. One of The real tests of a good salesman is that whether he will forge the customers signature on loan papers on not.Many people in byjys are capable of that. The scam begins from getting the contact numbers from any way possible e.g.banks, schools, hospitals etc. Even after uninstalling the tab, they will ask about reason of uninstallation. The salesmen are trained to check the credit worthiness of the customers by watching the cars they have to the locality they reside in.If you install byju app from iPhone, you will be quoted higher than someone who installs from Android.They have a very good business where they sell discarded tablets for ten times markup.Once the customers signs on the loan papers (they can forge it as well) , they will listen to the customers for 15 days during the refund period.The sales man can even demand money for visiting, if someone is not agreeing to buy(which goes into his pockets).If the customer is hesitant to buy the product, they will tell things about not being a good parent in front of the child. They are motivated to tell any lie and provide any hypothetical service to sell the product. No media will write about them. Rather the media will tell about how byju was a tuition teacher who became billionaire. 

Overall, byju classes is a sales and marketing lesson about how a mediocre product can be sold. They are the 'wolf of wall street's of India.Neither of byju raveendran or other top shots of byjus are on Twitter because they know that they will be questioned. Search for byjus on Twitter and sort by recent, every person has the same complaint about not getting the refund.