“By linking funding for education to collection of data including Aadhaar data, states are being forced to collect personal information of students and parents and enter these into a centralised database. The centralised collection of personal information of students and parents is arbitrary and illegal,” argued the Democratic Alliance for Knowledge Freedom Society (DAKFS) in their plea against the government’s mandate to collect Aadhaar data from students and teachers for upgrading a central-level education data portal.

According to the petition, reviewed by MediaNama, the Education Ministry’s Department of School Education & Literacy (DoSEL) had issued letters asking all States & UTs to accelerate the process of seeding Aadhaar data of students and teachers in addition to their other personal information, for the Unified District Information System for Education Plus or UDISE+.

The UDISE+ programme initiated by the DoSEL provides a central repository of school education data collected from across the country. The petition filed by the DAKFS at the Kerala High Court with the support of the Software Freedom Law Centre challenges the Ministry’s directions primarily on the grounds that the move infringes upon students’ privacy rights and violates provisions of existing law such as the Right to Education Act.

The petition called upon the court to stay the implementation of such orders and to ask the government to stop the collection of personal data of students and parents through the UDISE+ portal.

On October 30, the Kerala HC directed the Indian government, the Indian IT Ministry, and the Kerala government to respond on the matter. The case will be next heard on November 23rd.

1. The Ministry’s directions violate the Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDPA):

2. Does the data collection pass the test of privacy?

3. Aadhaar data is not mandatory for enrolment in schools

4. Right to Education is not a benefit under the Aadhaar Act

5. There are alternative methods for student data collection under the RTE Act

6. “Unnecessary accumulation” of personal data poses dangers of profiling, data breaches

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event