Both the appeals arise out of a common judgment and decree both dated 1st of

October, 1991 passed by learned Assistant District Judge, 3rd Court District

Midnapur in Title Appeal No.429 of 1986. The plaintiff Radha Ranjan Das (since
 deceased) is the appellant in S. A. 133 of 1994. Proforma defendant Nos. 2 and 3

Nirmal Kumar Das and Kshudiram Das are the appellants in S. A. No.134 of 1994. The plaintiff Radha Ranjan Das filed a suit being Title Suit No.171 of 1982 in

the Court of learned Munsif, 2nd Court at Tamluk district Midnapur with the

following averments:- Though defendant No.1 initially agreed to demolish said encroached portions but

ultimately he did not demolish the same. Lastly, on 15th of March, 1982 defendant

No.1 alleged to the plaintiff that plaintiff executed a deed of gift dated 02.12.1970

i.e., impugned deed in favour of defendant No.1 in respect of entire Dags 1740,

1741/4758, 1739 and 1738 of Narkeldanga Mouza together with 'ka-2' schedule
 properties. Plaintiff obtained certified copy of said alleged deed of gift on

06.08.1982 and came to know that defendant No.1 obtained said deed of gift dated

02.12.1970 by practising fraud, misrepresentation and undue influence upon the

plaintiff in the name of obtaining a power of attorney. One decimal of land out of 3

acres 37 decimals of land in Khata 897 mouza Guri District Baleswar was included

for registration of said document within the District of Baleswar though plaintiff did

not own said land. As such said deed of gift was also executed by practising fraud on

the registrar of Baleswar by falsely incorporating some lands within jurisdiction of

Baleswar. Accordingly, plaintiff filed said suit praying for declaration that alleged

deed of gift dated 02.12.1970 mentioned in 'ka - 1' schedule

of the plaint regarding 'ka' schedule properties and other properties was null and

void, illegal and not binding on the plaintiff and that the defendant No.1 had no right

title or possession in those properties on the strength of said alleged deed of gift and

that the plaintiff has right, title and interest thereupon, together with a decree for

permanent injunction. Respondent defendant No.1 Ashok Kumar Das contested said suit by filing a

written statement alleging as follows:- Mr. Sahoo, learned counsel for the defendant Nos. 2 and 3 (appellant of S. A.

134 of 1994), submits that learned Courts below failed to note that the defendant

Ashok Kumar Das was in fiduciary relation with the plaintiff Radha Ranjan Das and

accordingly they erroneously placed onus on the part of plaintiff to show that the

impugned document dated 2.12.1970 was vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation.
 He further submits that in view of applying wrong legal tests as stated above learned

Courts below came to a wrong conclusion that the impugned deed of gift dated

2.12.1970 was not vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation. In support of his contention he refers case laws reported in 2003 (7) Supreme

page 105 (Krishna Mohan alias Nani Charan Kul & Anr. Vs. Pratima Maity and

Ors. ) and AIR 2011 Supreme Court page 2344. Mr. Asis Kumar Bagchi, learned counsel for the respondent defendant No.1,

on the other hand, submits that above referred case laws have no application in this

case as the executant of the first case was an old ailing illiterate person, and in the

second case, was the guardian selling minor's property without permission of the

Court. Mr. Bagchi further submits that where both the parties adduced oral as well as

documentary evidence the question of burden of proof becomes insignificant.

According to him, learned Courts below on the basis of evidence on record, both oral

and documentary, came to the concurrent findings of fact that the impugned deed of

gift dated 02.12.1970 was not vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation and that there

is no scope of interference to said findings by this Court during hearing of the second

appeal. There is no denial that whether a document is vitiated by fraud or

misrepresentation is a question of fact. When both the Courts below came to the
 concurrent findings of fact on that issue there is hardly any scope of interference to

said concurrent findings of fact under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure

unless it can be shown that said findings were based on no evidence or were based on

extraneous matters or were arrived disregarding settled legal principles. In this case admittedly defendant No.1 Ashok was a permanent resident of

Midnapur District and looked after properties of plaintiff lying in Midnapur district

while plaintiff was residing in Orissa for long. It also came out from the evidence of

the plaintiff (P.W.1) that he was once a member of the Balasore Panchayat Samity

for three years and that he was also a Secretary of Balasore Pati Krishak Sangha for

quite some period and that he executed several documents before execution of

impugned deed of gift dated 2.12.1970. It came out from the admission of the

plaintiff during his evidence that he purchased the stamp of said document dated

2.12.1970 after putting his signature thereupon as purchaser. He also admitted that it

was a general practice in Orissa that the name of the vendor and the nature of the

deed were used to be written in the place of stamp vendor and that in this case also it

was followed. It also came out from the original deed of gift dated 2.12.1970 written

in Oriya language (Ext.D) as well as from the certified copy of the same written in

Oriya language (Ext.2) and the copy of the same in Bengali script (Ext.2a) that in the

original deed it was written as 'Dan Patra' in Oriya. The scribe (P.W.5) who was an
 independent person also deposed that after writing of the document he read over and

explained the same to the plaintiff who thereupon executed the same. Exhibits B, B(1) and B (2) are the letters written by the plaintiff to the

defendant No.1 Ashok and his sister Rani on different dates of 1975. The plaintiff

also admitted during his cross-examination that those letters were written by him and

that statements made therein were correct. It came out from those letters of 1975

which were written long before filing of the suit in 1982 that plaintiff executed a

deed of gift in favour of defendant No.1 covering suit property. There is no evidence

and it is also nobody's case that plaintiff executed said deed of gift in favour of

defendant No.1 as mentioned in those letters of 1975 relating to properties other than

suit property. Rather it was very much clear from those letters of 1975 that plaintiff

executed a deed of gift in favour of the defendant No.1 relating to the suit property.

Learned Courts below took note of those evidence on record, both oral and

documentary, and came to concurrent findings of fact that plaintiff executed said

deed of gift dated 2.12.1970 in favour of defendant No.1 knowing contents of the

same and that the allegation of fraud and misrepresentation were not tenable. As said

concurrent findings of fact were based on evidence, both oral and documentary,

adduced by both the parties the question of burden of proof became insignificant and

I find no ground to interfere with the same while dealing with this case under Section

100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Mr. Sahoo, learned counsel for the defendant Nos. 2 and 3, next submits that

the impugned deed of gift dated 2.12.1970 was registered under Baleswar Sub-

Registry office by fraudulently including one decimal of land of Guri mouza in

Khata No.897 (in Orissa Khatian is referred as Khata) just to attract jurisdiction of

Baleswar Sub-Registry office for registration of said document though in reality

plaintiff was not owner of said Khata 897 measuring lands of three acres 37 decimals

in mouza Guri district Baleswar. According to Mr. Sahoo as alleged deed of gift was

relating to lands of Midnapur district, the registration should have been done in

Midnapur and not at Baleswar and that said one decimal of land of khata 897 of

mouza Guri was fraudulently included so that the document could be registered with

Baleswar Sub-Registry office and that it amounted to practising fraud upon office of

the Sub-Registrar and violation of Section 28 of the Registration Act. In support of

his contention he refers AIR 1936 Privy Council page 91 ( Venkatarama vs. Appa

Rao ). Mr. Bagchi, learned senior counsel for the respondent/defendant No.1, on the

other hand, submits that it came out during evidence that plaintiff claiming himself to

be owner of said plot of land under Khata 897 of mouza Guri district Baleswar

earlier executed one sale deed to one Amulya (Ext.E) and during evidence also

admitted said document (Ext.E) to be a valid document and that it cannot be said

under these circumstances that plaintiff was not owner of said land or that Section 28 of the Indian Registration Act was violated by incorporating one decimal of land

under said Khata in said deed of gift. There is no denial that plaintiff admitted execution of said sale deed in favour

of one Amulya (Ext.E) relating to some land in said Khata 897 of mouza Guri

District Baleswar claiming him to be the owner of the same. If that be the position

then learned Courts below rightly held that plaintiff was estopped from denying his

ownership in said land. Apart from that it came out that plaintiff himself purchased

the stamp for execution of impugned deed of gift and that after knowing contents of

the document he executed said document. There is no evidence whatsoever to show

that defendant No.1 took any part to falsely include said one decimal of land relating

to Khata 897 of mouza Guri district Baleswar in said deed of gift. As such, if any

fraud was committed on the sub-registry office for illegal inclusion of some land of

Baleswar District without any intention of gifting the same to the donee then said

fraud was committed by the donor i.e. plaintiff and not by the donee i.e. defendant

No.1. A person cannot be permitted to take advantage of his own fraud. Apart from

that even if it is admitted for argument's sake that defendant No.1 was also a party to

said fraud even then said document namely deed of gift dated 2.12.1970 was not a

void document and that it has to be declared invalid by a competent Court of law. In

order to obtain a declaration that the deed of gift was void on the ground of fraud or

misrepresentation (though not proved in this case) or on the ground of practising
 fraud upon the Registry office (though it was not proved that donee had any part in

it) the suit was required to be brought within three years from the date of knowledge

of the said alleged fraud upon the plaintiff executant or upon the registry office. It

came out from the evidence on record, both oral and documentary, that the plaintiff

executed impugned deed of gift dated 2.12.1970 knowing its contents and that even

in his letters written in 1975 to the defendant No.1 and his sister Rani (Ext.B series)

he admitted about execution of said deed of gift relating to suit property in favour of

defendant No.1. Admittedly, this suit for declaring the impugned deed of gift dated

02.12.1970 as void and not binding on the plaintiff on the ground of fraud and

misrepresentation etc. was filed only in 1982. In terms of Section 59 of the

Limitation Act a party has to file a suit within three years from the date of knowledge

of the alleged fraud for avoiding a document. It was evident from the materials on

record that the plaintiff was well aware about the nature of the document from the

very inception and that even in his letters written in 1975 admitted about execution of

said deed of gift in favour of defendant No.1. Accordingly, the suit was hopelessly

barred by limitation and learned Courts below rightly held the same. Mr. Sahoo, learned counsel for the defendant Nos.2 and 3, next submits that

neither learned Trial Court nor learned Lower Appellate Court took note that these

defendants purchased half share of the 'ka' schedule plots of land from plaintiff's

brother Radha Raman Das being the recorded owner of the same on 03.05.1970 by
 registered kobala and that they started to possess the same and also filed a partition

suit being Title Suit No.51 of 1970 in the Court of learned Sub-Judge, 3rd Court,

Midnapur wherein plaintiff and defendant No.1 were also parties. He further submits

that the impugned deed of gift dated 02.12.1970 was executed after execution of said

sale deed dated 03.05.1970 as well as after filing of said partition suit being Title Suit

No.51 of 1970. He next submits that though defendant No.1 appeared in said

partition suit and filed a written statement but ultimately did not contest and that an

ex parte preliminary decree was passed on 05.07.1973. According to him, though

plaintiff had no right, title, interest and possession over those lands covered by said

sale deed [Ext.C(1)] but those were included in the impugned deed of gift dated

02.12.1970 that too after execution of said sale deed by its original owner and during

pendency of the partition suit involving the lands covered by Ext.C/1. and that

learned Courts below should have declared that the impugned deed of gift was

invalid so far as it related to lands covered by Ext.C(1). In this connection Mr.

Sahoo refers to a case law reported in 2011 (1) CHN (SC) page 180 ( T. G. Ashok

Kumar vs. Govindammal and Anr. ) to show the application of the doctrine of lis

pendens as embodied under Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act. He has also

referred a case law reported in (2007) 8 SCC page 329 ( Saroja vs. Chinnusamy and

another ) to impress upon this Court that an ex parte decree is equally binding upon

the parties of the suit. Mr. Sahoo next refers to AIR 1963 Supreme Court page 1516
 (Panna Lal vs. State of Bombay) to show the scope as well as power of the Appellate

Court under Order 41 Rule 33 and 22 of the Code of Civil Procedure . According to

him, learned Lower Appellate Court had the authority to take note of passing of ex

parte decree in the partition suit and its effect on the impugned deed of gift of 1970

so far as it related to the properties covered by these defendants' purchase deed

[Ext.C(1)] and should have declared that impugned deed of gift of 1970 was

ineffective so far as it related to the properties covered by defendant No.2 and 3's

purchased deed (Ext.C/1) which was recognized as their purchased property in the

preliminary decree of the partition suit. The doctrine of lis pendens as embodied in Section 52 of the transfer of Property Act was lucidly explained in para 10 of T. G. Ashok Kumar 's case (supra)

which runs as follows:- In Saroja 's case (supra) it was held that an ex parte decree is binding as a

decree passed after contest on the persons against whom such an ex parte decree was

passed. In Panna Lal's case (supra) Hon'ble Apex Court laid down the scope of Order

41 Rule 33 and Order 41 Rule 22 as follows:-