Per Kumar Rajesh Chandra, A.M.: A/1, may be quashed and set aside. b) Any other relief/reliefs as the applicant is entitled and Your Lords
 Lordships
 hips
 may deem fit and proper in the ends of justice." 2. The facts of the case, as per the applicant, are as follows:- (e) As a matter of fact, the applicant was the Officiating Vigilance Officer at
that time. She was/is known to not submitting to any kind of pairavee,,
pressure or even threat in discharge of her duties. It is contended that the
applicant's reputation, honesty and integrity sent chills down the spines of
the wrong doers. They did not want the scam to be unearthed, hence to
keep the applicant awa
 awayy from the truth being surfaced, they targeted her by
managing filing of baseless allegations against her which resulted in
constitution of Committee, her transfer to Prayagraj and thereafter in
getting the applicant implicated in the Major Penalty proceed
 proceeding
 ing vide
Memorandum dated 17/05/2021 as at Annexure A/2. (f) The applicant was charged with absolutely incorrect and baseless
allegations of late coming
 coming-early
 early going at her working place and doing private
practice in the Nursing Home of her husband who was also a Doctor in State
Government. (g) The applicant participated in the departmental proceeding and the
Inquiry Officer submitted his Inquiry Report wherein both the allegations
levelled against the applicant were held as not proved. (h) Thereafter proced
 procedural
 ural errors have been committed by the Disciplinary
Authority as well as the UPSC in taking help of "Preponderance of
Probability" even before the stage of issuance of Final Order of punishment.
The Disciplinary Authority disagreed with the Inquiry Report and in his
disagreement note dated 25.02.2022, there is no adverse observation at all
upon the Inquiry Officer, alleging any error by the Inquiry Officer in
conduction of Disciplinary Inquiry, there is no observation upon the findings
arrived at and conclu
 conclusion
 sion reached by the Inquiry Officer. In other words, the
Inquiry Officer has not at all been condemned in discharge of his
responsibility in conducting the Disciplinary Inquiry and holding the
allegation levelled against the applicant as: 43. The Disciplinary
 Disciplinary Authority was required to give
specific reasons in the Disagreement Note on the basis of which the findings
of the Inquiry Officer in that behalf was based, (l) Like the Disciplinary Authority the UPSC also in its advice dated
14.06.2023 has observed Ar
 Article
 ticle I as not proved and Article - II as proved on
" preponderance of probability". (m) The stand taken by the UPSC in Para 4.35 of its advice is absolutely
incorrect and objection made by applicant, that "Preponderance of
Probability cannot be used and ttaken
 aken as its foundation at the stage of
issuance of disagreement note by the Disciplinary Authority and also at the
stage of tendering advice by the UPSC. (n) On 11.07.2023, the applicant submitted her representation against the
Advice of UPSC wherein by sspecifically
 pecifically and categorically she placed her
points that in the Advice of UPSC dated 13th April 2023, the Fact Finding
Report dated 23.06.2017 was considered instead of the evidences adduced -5- OA/050/00758/2023

 and gathered during the regular Disciplinary Enquiry and the obse
 observations
 rvations
 and conclusion drawn up by the Inquiry Officer in his Inquiry Report.
 Further, in the Advice of UPSC dated 13th April 2023, the Article
 Article-1
 1 was held: preponderance of probab
 probability",
 ility", which was not permissible at this stage of
 issuance of "Advice upon punishment". She further pleaded that the advice
 tendered by the UPSC dated 13th April 2023 to impose upon her monetary
 penalty of Reduction to a lower stage in the time scale of p
 pay
 ay by one stage
 for a period of two years, with further directions that She will not earn
 increments of pay during the period of such reduction and on the expiry of
 such period, the reduction will not have the effect of postponing the future
 increments of my pay was not at all warranted and justified. Finally, the
 applicant requested that the UPSC Advice dated 13th April 2023 was not
 based upon correct application of Rules & Law and as such the same needed
 to be negated by the Disciplinary Authority and she requested to exonerate
 her in the ongoing departmental proceeding in the ends of justice. (o) In complete non
 non-consideration
 consideration of points raised by applicant against
 disagreement note as well as UPSC Advice, the applicant has been inflicted
 punishment by com
 committing
 mitting grave procedural error, reducing the
 departmental proceeding against the applicant a nullity in the eye of law
 and rules, as its being vitiated from the stage of issuance of Disagreement
 Note as well as at the stage of issuance of Advice by the UPS
 UPSC. C. The
 impugned Order as contained in Annexure A/1 which is based upon
 procedural errors as well as upon no evidence which is shocking to the
 conscience of any prudent person. Hence, the OA. 3. The respondents have filed written statements in which they

have denied the contentions of the applicant. It is submitted that

applicant's promotion to SAG was due on 25.11.2017 and

recommendation of DPC was in sealed cover for the panel year 2017
 2017-- 18, 2018
 2018,, 2019, 2020, 2021 due to pendency of departmental

proceedings which is liable to be opened after currency of penalty is

over. The respondents have denied that the applicant was put to -6- OA/050/00758/2023

trouble in a calculated manner by transferring her to Prayagraj and

subsequently
 bsequently implicated in a major departmental proceeding since

the GDMO of CHS cadre has all India service liability. It is contended

that recruitment for the posts of Pharmacists etc. has nothing to do

with the issuance of memo of charge in which the appl
 applicant
 icant was

awarded punishment. As regards Dr. Namrata Kumari it is contended

that she was exonerated after due enquiry. The respondents have

maintained that the disciplinary proceeding against the applicant was

done as per law on the basis of materials brou
 brought
 ght on record from

both sides. The respondents have further averred that on receipt of

reply of applicant on IO report/disagreement note the Disciplinary

Authority gave its approval for disagreement with IO's report and for

referring the matter to the UPSC for its statutory advice with regard

to imposition of appropriate penalty on the applicant and that at this

stage the disciplinary authority is not under any legal obligation to

pass any reasoned and speaking order on the representation of the

applicant. The respondents have stated that it is settled law that in

departmental inquiry penalty can be imposed on the delinquent

officer on the basis of preponderance of probability whereas in

criminal law the burden of proof is beyond reasonable doubt. They

have,
 e, therefore, prayed for dismissal of the OA. 4. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and

perused the materials available on record carefully. After hearing the -7- OA/050/00758/2023

rival parties and perusing the materials available on record, we come

to the fol
 following conclusion:- y." The UPSC thus opined
 that the charges with regard to Article
 Article--II against the charged officer are not
 proved. Hence, this need not be d
 discussed
 iscussed as there is no dispute regarding
 this charge as not proved. (c) As regards Article-II,
 II, i.e. private practice at Ashadeep Nursing
 Home, Bhikhana Pahari, Patna the UPSC opined that it is proved based on
 preponderance of probability. Accordingly, aass per the advice of UPSC, the
 punishment was imposed on the applicant. We observe that in Para 4.22 of
 the advice of UPSC dated 13.04.2023 it is mentioned as follows: It is also mentioned in para 4.25 of the above advice of UPSC that when
the team visited the said Nursing home at 10.3
 10.300 AM on 13.09.2010
the Safai-Karmachari of the hospital informed that no doctor is available in
the nursing home at that moment and that the doctor will be available in
the evening. When the team asked the name and letter head of the doctor,
she handed ove
 overr a pamphlet which had the name of Ashadeep Nursing
Home in the top and also the name of the CO and Dr. Sanjay Kumar Sinha,
who is her husband. Further, an attendant of one of the patients in
Ashadeep Nursing Home informed that the CO was treating her pati
 patient. ent. However, the Safai
 Safai-Karmachari
 Karmachari denied the claim and said that Dr. Asha
Sinha is the doctor here and also mentioned that the pamphlet is more than
9 years old. Since the team found a pamphlet having the name of the CO
and as per inquiries there is prepo
 preponderance
 nderance of probability that she is
engaged in private practice in Ashadeep Nursing Home. It is being observed that the sole piece of pamphlet has been said to be
printed about nine years ago. There is no proof about who got it printed and
from where. More
 Moreover,
 over, the name of another Lady Doctor that is Dr. Asha
Sinha has been mentioned as the treating doctor rather than the charged
officer (applicant) Dr. Vibha Sinha. The name of the Nursing Home has been
said to be Ashadeep Nursing home. So the preponderance of probability -9- OA/050/00758/2023

 points towards Dr. Asha Sinha as the treating doctor rather than the
 applicant Dr. Vibha Sinha. (d) It is also noted that during cross -examination of PW-2, PW-3
 3 and
 P-44 no conclusive proof of private practice of the applicant has been fou
 found. nd. Para 4.26. 4.27 and 4.28 of the UPSC advice deals with the relevant
 questionnaire which reads as under: 4.26 The Commission note that PW-2,
 PW 2, Dr. Sanjay Kumar during his
 cross
 cross-examination
 examination by the CO on 02.11.2021 in reply to Question No.03
 stated as under: 4.28 The Commission note that PW
 PW-4,
 4, Shri Pawan Patel during his cross- cross- examination by the CO on 08.11.2021 in reply to Question Nos. 02
 02-05
 05 stated
 as under: 5. From the above, it is clear that there is no conclusive proof or

evidence or even a preponderance of probability that the applicant

was doing private practice at Ashadeep Nursing Home which, it

appears, actually named after Dr. Asha Sinha. Even the Prosecution

witnesses have conceded during the cross
 cross-examination
 examination by the

charged officer (applicant) that the charges are not proved. Merely

on the basis of a pamphlet which is 9 years old it cannot be

confirmed that the applicant was involved in private practice in the

said Nursing Home. The presumption of UPSC that since the

applicant joined the service as CGHS doctor in 1998 she might

be doing private practice in the said Nursi
 Nursing
 ng Home 9 years ago while

being in service has no legs to stand. There has also been no enquiry

with regard to the printing of pamphlet. Since the applicant's

husband is already expired and the nursing home is no longer

functioning, it is not possible or p
 prudent
 rudent to blame the applicant for

private practice even today. 6. In view of the above, we hold that the allegations levelled

against the applicant have not been substantiated at all and as such

the punishment imposed upon the advice of the UPSC is not

sustainable in the eyes of law because it is a case of no evidence. -11- OA/050/00758/2023

Hence, the conclusion arrived at by UPSC while tendering the advice

and the Disciplinary Authority while passing an order of

punishment are completely perverse and bad in law. We, therefore,
 therefore,

find that this is a case where interference by this tribunal is

mandated as per law. 7. Accordingly, this OA is allowed. The impugned order of

punishment dated 14.08.2023 conveyed to the applicant vide office

order dated 23.08.2023 (Annexure A/1) is hereby quashed and set

aside. The respondents are directed to grant all the consequential

benefits as a result of quashing of the impugned order within a

period of three months from the date of receipt of this order. No

order as to costs.