SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Two Sides Of The Same Coin.
DATE: 2019-12-16
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ebbsvp/two_sides_of_the_same_coin/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a 17 year old confused about the current state of India post CAB. 

There are currently two narratives in place. 

1. That the recent protests turned violent due to congress sending men to incite the youth by vandalising and destroying public property. And the same happening all over India. And that the jamia protests started peaceful and it was the Congress/ AAP that made them into a violent protest, with most of these people not even knowing the reason behind them burning buses and taking part in protests, just that they receive money for it and that’s all that mattered to them. With all the facts in the media exaggerated by fake propaganda. 

2. The protests turned violent due to police brutality similar to what is happening in hongkong for the past few months. Fighting fire with fire, the students and general public have no choice but to be violent to combat the merciless police, as they enter college campuses to beat up students, while burning buses to frame the protestors so they have an excuse to kill/ arrest them. 

I do not know which side to believe. Both sides seem equally believable. 

Everybody is aware of the ways a single viral post can influence the masses, a single decade old picture can be edited and posted saying,

“violence in abc state reaches extreme levels as 12 students are killed by the police”. With a very graphic picture to evoke emotion. 

The majority of Indians do not question such posts and repost it all over social media when a simple reverse image search will reveal the truth. 

False narratives created to sway public opinion is employed by almost every protest in the last few years. 

Kashmir can be considered a good example of this, people thought the CRPF soldiers were Army soldiers in viral posts and defamed the Army publicly accusing them of crimes. This just made me realise how the masses don’t care about the truth, if it aligns with their personal belief, they will believe it without question. 

So who the believe ? It seems people have taken their stance by choosing what to believe and not to believe on their own. This makes everybody think THEY are right and others are wrong and the cycle continues because it’s extremely hard to prove someone wrong when you don’t know if the news you just read is the truth or false propaganda. 

It seems Individuals decide what is right and wrong and jump on one side of the fence. Let’s say I’m on the side which says that it is the police brutality that is inciting violence and they are the ones burning busses. There is no way you could convince me otherwise because I will just dismiss everything opposing my belief as false news and everything supporting my belief as the correct news,vice-versa for the other side. 

I recently saw a viral post saying the protests at Jamia were peaceful till local residents joined in. Does this mean that those local residents are paid protestors inciting violence to make the public hate the current government ?, or did the students feel like they could have a better chance against the police with the aid of the locals and that it was their intention all along?. 

In these circumstances, how do I know which news is false and which news is the truth, I do not want support the wrong cause just because I THINK it’s the truth. 

Disclaimer: I have no intention to create illwill, I am an athiest with no religious bias, I just want to know other people’s views on this as I stay in Gujarat and talking politics with anyone here is meaningless.