The Hyderabad-based Head Digital Works, an online gaming company, filed a petition in the Karnataka High Court challenging the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025, which President Droupadi Murmu recently gave assent to after both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha passed it.

The Head Digital Works owns the gaming platforms like A23 Poker, A23 Rummy and Adda52, another platform for poker games. It is challenging the key provision of the Act, which imposes a blanket ban on real-money games in India. As per the report from Bar and Bench, the gaming company is challenging Sections 2(1)(g), 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the Act. These sections define online games, ban real-money games, restrict RMG-related advertisements and prohibit financial transactions for such games. The company is also challenging the penalties imposed for violating the Act. The Karnataka HC scheduled the initial hearing for August 30, 2025.

The central government has introduced the bill to ban online real money games while promising legal recognition and encouragement to sectors like e-sports and online social games, which are referred to as low-risk casual games. Ashwini Vaishnaw, Minister for Railways, Information and Broadcasting, and Electronics and Information Technology, said while introducing the bill that the government aims to ban online money games for several reasons. Such as youth and child addiction, increased fraud, credit card debt and suicides, risks of money laundering and terror financing, and celebrity ads that mislead users and give false legitimacy.

2/ e-Sports → PROMOTED Just like cricket or football, e-Sports require strategy, reflexes & teamwork. 👉 Bill gives legal recognition to e-Sports. 👉 Government will launch schemes & programs to promote them. pic.twitter.com/Q5jUCkeZAB

According to the Online Gaming Act , anyone who violates this ban may face penalties, imprisonment, or fines starting from Rs 50 lakh. It also mandates up to two years in prison, a fine of up to Rs. 50 lakh, or both, for those who are found guilty of advertising online gaming apps.

Additionally, the Act also seeks to punish the banks or financial institutions that facilitate such transactions for RMG with up to three years in prison, a fine of up to Rs. 1 crore, or both. The Act mandates stricter penalties for repeat offenders, including three to five years in prison and fines ranging from Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore.

Speaking to Deccan Herald , Priyank Kharge, Karnataka’s Minister of Electronics, Information Technology & Biotechnology, said that since the state holds 30% of the online gaming market, the central government’s ban results in loss of revenue for the state. Kharge said that the Indian government earned more than Rs. 20,000 crore annually from real-money games.

Addressing the financial loss for the state, Kharge declared that the State is planning to have state-specific legislation to regulate the online money gaming sector instead of banning it entirely. “The Supreme Court is still adjudicating on whether online gaming is a state or central subject. Yet, the Centre rushed with this Bill. A ban isn’t the solution. We’ll have this evaluated and discussed with the home department as well as the chief minister,” Kharge told Deccan Herald.

Responding to the petition filed in the Delhi High Court extending the RMG ban on unregulated betting and gambling, the judges asked the petitioner to make a representation to the concerned authorities.

The legal challenge in the Karnataka High Court comes as many gambling platforms that once offered real-money gaming either pivot to other businesses or back the bill. For example, the gaming platform WinZO announced plans to expand to the United States and also plans to launch a short-video vertical within its app featuring Korean and Chinese drama content.

In a similar vein, Dream11, one of the country’s largest fantasy sports platforms, announced it will shut down real-money games. Mobile Premier League (MPL), PokerBaazi, and Gameskraft also stopped accepting new deposits. A few of the platforms allowed the existing users to withdraw their money. Games24x7, which runs RummyCircle and My11Circle, halted deposit features and planned to phase out its real-money games. Reportedly, the India-based opinion trading app, Probo, also shut down its operations in India. Unlike RMG, opinion trading, or prediction markets, let players bet on the outcomes of future events.

On the other hand, a new industry body, the Indian Game Publishers and Developers Association (IGPDA), has been formed in support of the Act. The group includes major Indian game developers such as Nazara Technologies, Reliance Games, Gametion, nCore Games, SuperGaming, Tara Gaming, underDOGS Studio, Aeos Games and Dot9 Games. It aims to unite game studios, publishers and platforms with partners, including tech providers, academic institutions, training organisations and investors.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event