The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on September 29 issued a consultation paper titled Digital Transformation through the 5G Ecosystem with the aim of understanding what regulatory changes have to be made to accelerate the growth of emerging technologies that rely on 5G including the Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), mixed reality (MR), edge computing, and metaverse.

“The objective of this consultation paper is to identify the policy challenges and suggest the right policy framework for faster adoption and effective utilisation of new technologies for the holistic and sustainable development of the economy driven by the 5G ecosystem,” TRAI said in its press release .

Interested stakeholders can email their comments to advadmn[at]trai.gov.in and vibhatomar[at]trai.gov.in by October 30, 2023.

Update (October 31, 3:15 pm): TRAI on October 30 extended the last date for submission of written comments up to November 27, 2023, and for counter-comments up to December 11, 2023.

There are also multiple other ongoing TRAI consultations, which you can find here .

1. Cross-sector collaboration for the development of 5G use cases: Is there a need for additional measures to further strengthen the cross-sector collaboration for the development and adoption of 5G use cases in India? If the answer is yes, please submit your suggestions with reasons and justifications. Please also provide the best practices and lessons learnt from other countries and India to support your comments.

2. Barriers in the development of the 5G ecosystem: Do you anticipate any barriers in the development of the ecosystem for 5G use cases, which need to be addressed? If yes, please identify those barriers and suggest possible policy and regulatory interventions including incentives to overcome such barriers. Please also provide the details of the measures taken by other countries to remove such barriers.

3. Creating awareness and promoting the use of 5G technology: What are the policy measures required to create awareness and promote the use of 5G technology and its infrastructure so that the citizens including those residing in rural and remote areas may benefit from the 5G use cases and services to create new economic activities and increase employment opportunities and thereby promote economic growth of the country?

4. Promoting the use of IoT tech: What are the policy measures required to promote the use of IoT technology and its infrastructure so that the citizens including those residing in rural and remote areas may benefit from these 5G-enabled IoT smart applications and services to create new economic activities and increase employment opportunities and thereby promote economic growth of the country?

5. Spreading awareness about IoT: What initiatives are required to be taken by the Government to spread awareness among the citizens about IoT-enabled smart applications? Should the private companies/startups developing these applications need to be engaged in this exercise through some incentivization schemes?

6. Upskilling for new types of jobs in Industry 4.0: Industry 4.0 encompasses Artificial intelligence, Robotics, Big data, and the Internet of things and is set to change the nature of jobs.

Please reply with proper justification and reasons and also by referring to the global best practices in this regard.

7. Challenges faced by MSMEs in adopting Industry 4.0: What are the policy, regulatory and other challenges faced by MSMEs in India in the adoption of Industry 4.0? Kindly suggest measures to address these challenges. Provide detailed justification with reasons along with the best practices in other countries.

Article continues below , you might also want to read:

8. Security testing and certification of IoT devices: What additional measures are required to strengthen the National Trust Centre (NTC) framework for complete security testing and certification of IoT devices (hardware as well as software) under DoT/TEC? What modifications in roles and responsibilities are required to make NTC more effective? Kindly provide your comments with justification in line with the global best practices

9. Need for Sector-specific IoT security guidelines: IoT security challenges and requirements vary significantly across different industry verticals. Is there a need to develop sector-specific IoT security and privacy guidelines?

10. Framework for developing sector-specific IoT guidelines: If the answer to Q.9 is yes, is there a need for a common framework and methodology for developing such sector-specific guidelines?

11. How to ensure privacy in IoT applications: Please suggest regulatory and policy interventions required to ensure the privacy of the massive amount of sensitive user data generated by IoT applications specifically in light of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023. Kindly provide justifications along with the global best practices.

12. R&D into IoT use cases in various sectors: What additional policy and regulatory measures are required to encourage research and development of IoT use cases in various sectors? Is there a need to incentivize startups for research and development of IoT-enabled use cases in various industry verticals? If yes, kindly suggest measures for the same.

13. Centre of Excellence and funding: What measures should be taken to encourage centres of excellence to handhold startups working in the development of use cases and applications in 5G and beyond technologies? How can domestic and foreign investors be encouraged to invest in funding the startups for these kinds of development activities?

14. Liability regime: Whether there is a need to make changes in relevant laws to handle various issues, including liability regime and effective mechanism for redressal and compensation in case of accidents, damages, or malfunctions involving IoT, drones, or robotic systems. If yes, give detailed suggestions.

15. Security mechanism for Multi-Access Edge Computing: Is there a need to have a separate security mechanism for Multi-Access Edge Computing (MEC)? If yes, please give your input and suggestions with regard to policies, rules, regulations and guidelines.

16. Creating awareness and promoting the use of the metaverse: What are the policy measures required to create awareness and promote the use of the metaverse, so that the citizens including those residing in rural and remote areas may benefit from the Metaverse use cases and services to create new economic activities and increase employment opportunities and thereby promote the economic growth of the country?

17. Regulatory framework for the metaverse: Is there a need to develop a regulatory framework for the responsible development and use of Metaverse? If yes, kindly suggest how this framework will address the following issues:

18. Experimental campuses to explore the metaverse: Whether there is a need to establish experimental campuses where startups, innovators, and researchers can collaborate and develop or demonstrate technological capabilities, innovative use cases, and operational models for Metaverse? How can the present CoEs be strengthened for this purpose? Justify your response with rationale and suitable best practices, if any.

19. India’s role in the metaverse standardisation: How can India play a leading role in metaverse standardization work being done by ITU? What mechanism should be evolved in India for making an effective and significant contribution to Metaverse standardisation? Kindly provide elaborate justifications in support of your response.

20. Governance mechanism for the metaverse:

21. Content moderation in the metaverse: Whether there is a need to establish a regulatory framework for content moderation in the metaverse, given the diversity of cultural norms and values, as well as the potential for harmful or illegal content such as hate speech, misinformation, cyberbullying, and child exploitation?

22. Content moderation in the metaverse: If the answer to Q.21 is yes, please elaborate on the following:

23. Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) in the metaverse: Please suggest the modifications required in the existing legal framework with regard to:

24. Any other 5G use case-related comments: Please comment on any other related issue in the promotion of the development, deployment and adoption of 5G use cases, 5G enabled IoT use cases and Metaverse use cases in India. Please support your answer with suitable examples and best practices in India and abroad in this regard.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event