RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. 1. This is a bail application under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagrik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ["BNSS"], filed on behalf of the
 applicant/accused Kanon Evarad @ Kanon for the grant of regular bail
 in case FIR No. 33/2023, PS EOW, Mandir Marg, under Section
 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B / 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 66 read with Section 43 / 55 (C) & 66 (D) of the Information &
 Technology Act. 2. Learned counsel for the applicant/accused submits that the
 applicant was apprehended and arrested from Greater Noida.
 However, the Investigating Officer ["IO"]neither informed the
 concerned Police Station of Greater Noida nor made any entry to this
 effect at the concerned Police Station of Greater Noida. The alleged
 search and seizure at the applicant's residence was not as per Section
 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. No document has been placed
 on record to indicate that the alleged house from which the recovery
 has been affected, belongs to the applicant. IO has denied the accused
 of his right to consult his lawyer before he was taken out of the State.
 IO failed to adhere to the mandatory procedural requirement of Article
 22 of the Constitution of India and Section 50 Cr. PC. It is submitted
 that IO has neither informed the grounds of arrest to the applicant at
 the time of apprehending him from his residence nor at the time of
 arresting him at PS EOW, Mandir Marg. 3. It is further submitted that investigation has been completed and
 charge sheet has already been filed. Applicant is in custody for the last
 ten months and there is no possibility of completion of trial shortly. It
 is also submitted that there is no chance of the applicant absconding
 from the course of justice, as his passport has already been impounded
 by the IO. 4. The bail application has been vehemently opposed by the
 learned Additional PP, appearing for the State, submitting that
 applicant/accused is a Nigerian National and he along with other co- accused have cheated huge money by hacking the server of Kangra
 Cooperative Bank and siphoned off money by using mobile
 internet/hacking software through various bank accounts. It is
 submitted that 151 fraudulent transactions were made and the total
 defrauded amount is to the tune of Rs. 7.79 crores. It has been
 submitted that applicant/accused has been arrested at the instance of
 his accomplice Chigozie Kenneth Okonkwo @ Ken, who was caught
 in CCTV footage while withdrawing the cheated money by using the
 ATM card of one Ms. Neelima Adhikari. 5. It is further submitted that house search of the applicant has led
 to the recovery of 13 mobile phones, apart from two high-end mobile
 phones, 5 laptops, cheque books, bank passbooks of Indian Nationals,
 4 International SIM cards and 4 Airtel SIM Cards. It is also stated that
 on analysis of the personal mobile phone of the applicant, it is found
 to contain a large number of messages delivered to various mobile
 numbers having secret bank account details of several Indian
 Nationals. The applicant is also accused of having installed an
 application namely "Dingtone" in his mobile phone, which is used for
 the purpose of calling/messaging from international phone numbers of
 many countries. It is further submitted that applicant/accused has not
 cooperated during the police remand and misled the police team while
 searching the co-accused persons. 6. Learned Additional PP further submits that the accused was
 provided the copy of the remand application, which contained the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Bail Appln. 3157/2024 Page 3 of 7 By:SUNITA KUMARI Signing Date:28.03.2025 18:42:56 grounds of arrest and such grounds were explained to him. 7. In rebuttal, the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that
 petitioner is a Nigerian National and does not know English and that
 the grounds of arrest were not explained to him in the language known
 to him, and therefore, it is not a sufficient compliance of Article 22 of
 the Constitution. In support of such argument, learned counsel places
 reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Lallu
 Bhai Jogi Bhai Patel Vs. Union of India (1981 AIR 728). 8. FIR under Section 409 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B IPC and under Section 66 IT Act was registered at PS Economic Offences Wing on
 the basis of a complaint received from Kangra Cooperative Bank,
 Pahar Ganj that a sum of Rs. 7.79 crores was siphoned off/cheated
 from the settlement account of the bank through 151 fraudulent RTGS
 transactions from 19.04.2023 to 21.04.2023 during non-banking hours
 by cyber hacking. The amount was credited in 112 bank accounts,
 which were opened with 26 banks in 19 states of India. The cheated
 money was immediately transferred/withdrawn through various
 banking transactions by the accused persons in whose accounts the
 cheated money was delivered. 9. The technical investigation revealed that a Remote Access
 Trojan was inserted into the system of Kangra Cooperative Bank via
 spoofed email in guise of genuine email. Thereafter, the same was
 operated through a command and control server of cyber attackers and
 new user account "Admins" was created. 10. During investigation, in the CCTV footage, one foreign national
 was seen withdrawing money from the ATM of Federal Bank from
 the account of Neelima Adhikari. This resulted in the arrest of co-
 accused Chigozie Kenneth Okonkwo @ Ken from Dwarka. He
 confessed his involvement. The search of his house led to the recovery
 of several ATM/Debit Cards of Indian individuals, International SIM
 Cards, Airtel SIM Cards etc. He disclosed the name of present
 applicant/accused, who gave him debit cards, SIM cards and mobile
 phones of Indian individuals and on his instructions, he withdrew the
 money from the ATM. 11. The present applicant/accused was apprehended at the instance
 of co-accused Chigozie Kenneth Okonkwo @ Ken from Greater
 Noida and search of his house, led to recovery of 13 mobile phones, 5
 laptops, National/International SIM cards, cheque books, and bank
 passbooks of Indian citizens. 12. Applicant/accused disclosed that he would get the co-accused
 persons apprehended. Raids were conducted to arrest them, but they
 could not be arrested. 13. One of the main contentions urged is that accused was not
 apprised of the grounds of arrest at the time of arrest. Apex Court in
 the case of Prabir Purkhayastha Vs. State of NCT of Delhi (2024)
 8 SCC 254, has observed as under:- 14. A perusal of the above mentioned paragraph shows that
 Supreme Court has distinguished between the grounds of arrest and
 the reasons for arrest. Since in this case, the copy of the remand paper
 which allegedly contained the reasons and grounds of arrest were
 provided to the petitioner, the same is prima facie sufficient
 compliance of legal requirements. 15. The case of Lallu Bhai Jogi Bhai Patel (supra) was a case under
 detention under Section 3 of Conservation of Foreign Exchange &
 Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act. In that case, petitioner was
 served with the grounds of detention in English, which was not known
 to him. He was not supplied the translation in his mother tongue, and
 therefore, it was held that the constitutional mandate in Article 22(5) has been infringed. 16. Petitioner, even though is a Nigerian National, has been living
 in India. Learned Additional PP submits that petitioner signed the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Bail Appln. 3157/2024 Page 6 of 7 By:SUNITA KUMARI Signing Date:28.03.2025 18:42:56 documents in English, and therefore, had the knowledge of English
 language. That being the case, prima facie, it appears that petitioner
 was duly communicated the grounds of his arrest in the language
 known to him. Whether or not the search and seizure was in
 accordance with law, shall be considered only during the trial. 17. There are allegations that exchequer money to the tune of Rs.
 7.79 crores has been siphoned off/cheated from Kangra Cooperative
 Bank by using as many as 151 fraudulent RTGS transactions by the
 applicant and the co-accused persons. In my view, the allegations are
 grave and serious in nature, and therefore, this is not a fit case for
 grant of bail to the petitioner at this stage. 18. The application is dismissed. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. March 28, 2025
 RM Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Bail Appln. 3157/2024 Page 7 of 7 By:SUNITA KUMARI Signing Date:28.03.2025 18:42:56