MediaNama has covered all important aspects of the Data Protection Bill 2021: Powers of the Government | Data Protection Authority | Data Localization | Data Breaches | Data Fiduciaries | Data Protection Officers | Children’s Data |

With regards to the obligations and penalties of data fiduciaries, the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection Bill has recommended the inclusion of social media platforms as significant data fiduciaries, restricting the adjudicating officer’s discretion to impose fines for violation or insubordination, and more.

The committee has recommended amending the definition of data fiduciaries to include ‘non-government organisations’ .

The committee recommended classifying social media platforms as significant data fiduciaries, instead of intermediaries and fiduciaries processing children’s data or providing services to them. It also laid down that significant data fiduciaries be regulated by their relevant sectoral regulators.

The committee’s new definition for social media platforms read: “A platform which primarily or solely enables online interaction between two or more users and allows them to create, upload, share, disseminate, modify or access information using its services.”

“The processing of personal data by any person shall be subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder,” the JPC report said.

The report has added “purpose for processing of personal data under Section 12” under the purposes for which a fiduciary can process data. Section 12 contains provisions for the processing of data without consent from the government, court requirements, etc.

Other conditions under the provision, which lays down how a fiduciary can process personal data, are:

The limitation that personal data shall be collected only as much as it is relevant to the purposes of its processing, has been retained from the 2019 bill.

Fiduciaries have to notify data principals before processing or collecting any data or in some cases ‘as soon as is reasonably practicable’, the same as was laid down in the 2019 bill. It also retains the exemption for cases where notification may prejudice the purpose for collection under Section 12, or processing of data without consent for government, court requirements, etc. Further, the notice will have to be ‘clear’, ‘concise’, and ‘easily accessible’ and in multiple languages if necessary.

It will have the following details:

Fiduciaries, as per the new report, have to delete data at the end of the period necessary for processing such data.

The fiduciary has to notify a data principal in case their data is disclosed to any other entity, which is not in compliance with requirements set down for such data earlier. However, the report lays down an exception for cases related to section 12.

The committee has added a clause to say that fiduciaries can share, transfer, transmit any data as prescribed. However, it adds an exception for purposes of processing that fall under Section 12.

The committee recommended adding a provision requiring data fiduciaries to disclose how the algorithm processes personal data of users.

Clause 23(1)(h) will now read as: “(h) where applicable, fairness of algorithm or method used for processing of personal data; and (i) any other information as may be specified by regulations.”

Consent for data processing or collection has to explicitly specify context and fiduciaries can no longer deny services to principals based on their right to exercise their choice. It is not clear if the report means the data principal’s exercise of choice or the fiduciaries’. Further, a principal will have to bear the consequences—not just legal consequences— for withdrawing consent for data processing without any reason. These are the three changes made by the JPC in the bill’s provisions relating to consent, its validity, and conditions.

These provisions are:

The committee has added clause 62 to the bill. This requires complaints filed to the Data Protection Authority, as laid down in Section 32 (relating to grievance redressal by a data fiduciary), to be forwarded to the Adjudicating officer to adjudge the complaint or application for compensation.

The report adds that the adjudicating officer will be considering guidelines issued by the Data Protection Authority while deciding on cases of penalties.

According to the provision, an adjudicating officer will decide on such cases keeping in mind the following factors:

The retained provision for appointment of adjudicating officers to handle claims for compensation lays down the following:

On redressal actions that can be taken by data principals in case of harm, the report says that a ‘Representative action’ could be filed in case one or more data principals suffer from harm due to a violation, and the procedure for hearing such a complaint will be as is prescribed.

It lays down the following conditions about violation of the bill’s provisions and actions to be taken on them:

What constitutes harm? The Bill states harm includes:

The clause related to penalties for violation of orders of the Data Protection Authority has been largely kept the same, with a slight change to demarcate penalties for fiduciaries and processors separately.

The report says that fiduciaries could be liable to pay fine ‘as may be prescribed’ up to a maximum penalty, upon violation of the Data Protection Act.

Specifically, its provisions lay down

A prescribed fine, upto Rs 5 Crore or 2% of the total global turnover for the preeceding year, whichever is higher. These will apply in case of violaitons against the following provisions:

A prescribed fine upto Rs 15 Crore of 4% of the global turnover of the last year, whichever is higher. This is in cases of violation of:

The committee retains provisions of fines for

During a MediaNama event in June 2019 on the impact of the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, on cloud and telecom services panelists voiced concerns about the bill’s classifications of fiduciaries, clauses governing them including penalties, and more.

Update, December 16, 8:00 pm: An earlier version of this report incorrectly substituted the government as the Adjudicating Officer in the first paragraph. The error is regretted.

Update, December 17, 2:30 pm: The report has been updated following editorial inputs.

Update, January 17, 2022, 1:50 pm: Added definition of “harm” under sub-heading “Provisions for redressal in case of harm.”

[gravityform id=”1″ title=”true” description=”true”]

Subscribe to MediaNama to get access to our ongoing coverage of the bill. Here is everything we have planned around the report:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event