Air Cargo Complex (ACC), Sahar
Andheri (East),
Mumbai - 400 099. APPEARANCE: 2.1 Brief facts of the case, leading to this appeal, are summarized herein
below: export consignments used to be received directly at the cargo complex,
after assessment of the shipping bills by customs authorities, and there
was no occasion involving any discrepancy being detected about the actual
goods exported vis-à-vis the high-valued goods for which the invoices were
alleged to have been prepared by the above modus operandi. Further
investigation was also conducted by the Special Intelligence and
Investigation Branch-Exports (SIIB-Exports) of Customs Commissionerate
at Air Cargo Complex, Mumbai, on the basis of detailed investigation
conducted by DRI. 2.7 On completion of detailed investigation, the Customs department had
alleged that M/s Rishay International had exported low value goods by over
valuation and availed ineligible drawback, in a fraudulent manner, in
number of export consignments, which are summarised below: appropriation of Rs. 5 lakhs; imposition of redemption for Rs.393 lakhs and
also imposed penalty of Rs.393 lakhs each on the appellant firm M/s Rishay
International, appellant Shri Riyaz Sayed Abdul Aziz, who is the Sole
Proprietor of export firm M/s Rishay International, 3 other co-noticees.
Feeling aggrieved with the impugned order dated 15.11.2023, the
appellant has filed this appeal before the Tribunal. 3.1 Learned Advocate submitted that the appellant-exporter has filed a
number of Shipping Bills (S/Bs) for export of ready-made garments to
African countries, mostly to Nigeria. These S/Bs relate to the period
01.01.2012 to 13.12.2014, and were filed along with respective invoices &
packing lists, which where duly assessed by the jurisdictional customs
authorities, by accepting the value of export goods declared by the
appellant and such goods were also allowed to be exported out of the
country by granting Let Export Orders (LEOs), in all such export shipments.
Therefore, he submitted that the allegation of over valuation of export
goods is not sustainable and consequential penalty imposed on the
appellant is also not sustainable. 3.2 Learned Advocate also stated that the investigation initiated by DRI
was on the basis of communication received from Consulate General of
India, Dubai, UAE vide their letter dated 08.03.2018 intimating DRI that
the goods has been cleared at much lower value than what has been
declared to the Indian customs. The investigation was later handed over to
the SIIB-Exports, who had on completion of the investigation, have issued
the Show Cause Notice (SCN) to the appellant in the present case. He
further stated that both in the SCN and in the impugned order, the report 5 C/85411/2024

of Consulate General of India, Dubai, have been relied upon for
confirmation of demands on the appellant-exporter; however, such
evidence does not have any relation in respect of exports of goods
undertaken by the appellant, which was destined to African countries.
Hence, he submitted that the confirmation of demands in their case is not
legally sustainable. 3.3 Further, learned advocate also stated that the appellant had
submitted proof of realisation of export proceeds, in respect of the exports
carried out by them during the disputed period 2012-2014, before the
investigation authorities. Therefore, he submitted that the allegation
levelled against the appellant for over valuation of export goods and non-
realisation of export proceeds and the consequent denial of drawback
benefits, imposition of penalty on the appellant does not have any legal
basis, as these are contrary to the facts. 4. On the other hand, learned Authorized Representative (AR)
appearing on behalf of the Revenue, reiterated the findings stated that
findings of the learned Commissioner of Customs in the impugned order.
He further stated that since the intelligence was received about the
appellant obtaining bogus purchase invoices, buying inferior quality ready-
made garments from the local market and exporting the same at inflated
prices, in order to avail inadmissible drawback, and in the absence of
realisation of full sale proceeds of export goods, the impugned order is
sustainable. 5. Heard both sides and perused the case records. The additional
submissions made in the form written paper books by both sides was also
perused carefully. 6. The short issue for determination before the Tribunal is as follows: C/85411/2024 (ii) does the imposition of redemption fine and penalty on the
 appellant, under Sections 125(1) and 114 , 114AA ibid stands legal
 scrutiny or not? 7. In order to appreciate the issues under dispute, the specific legal
provisions relevant to the above dispute are extracted and given below
for ease of reference. Customs Act, 1962 Drawback on imported materials used in the manufacture of goods
 which are exported. Penalty for use of false and incorrect material. Section 114AA . If a person knowingly or intentionally makes, signs or uses,
or causes to be made, signed or used, any declaration, statement or
document which is false or incorrect in any material particular, in the
transaction of any business for the purposes of this Act, shall be liable to a
penalty not exceeding five times the value of goods." Customs, Central Excise Duties and Service Tax Drawback Rules, 1995
"Rule 3. Drawback. - (1) Subject to the provisions of - (a) the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and the rules made thereunder, (b) the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) and the rules made
 thereunder,
 (bb) the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994), and the rules made thereunder;
 and (c) these rules,
a drawback may be allowed on the export of goods at such amount, or at
such rates, as may be determined by the Central Government: 8. In respect of the above issues of dispute, learned Commissioner of
Customs has held that the appellant-exporter was obtaining fake bills in
the name of the number of bogus companies from Shri Suhel Parvez Ansari,
for use as higher valued/overvalued invoices for export of low value goods,
with an intent to claim ineligible drawback. In coming to the above
conclusion, he relied upon the DRI's enquiry confirming that Consulate
General of India, Dubai, UAE vide its letter dated 08.03.2018, in which they
had reported that from the scrutiny of the documents provided by Federal
Customs Authority, Dubai, it emerged that goods had been cleared and unit
values has been much lower than what has been declared to Indian
Customs; and as per DRI, the appellant-exporter has also conducted the
similar modus operandi. On the above basis, learned Commissioner of
Customs had given the following findings for confirmation of the demands
on the appellants. The relevant paragraph in the said impugned order are
extracted and given below: 9.1 On plain reading of the legal provision under Section 75 of the
Customs Act, 1962, it transpires that sub-section (1) of said Section
provides for allowing drawback of duties of Customs on any goods, which
have been entered for export and for which an order permitting clearance
of loading and exportation thereof has been made by the proper officer of
Customs under Section 51 ibid. However, the second proviso to the said
section provide the procedure for recovery or adjustment of the amount of
such drawback, where if it is found that the sale proceeds in respect of such
goods are not received by or on behalf of the exporter in India within the
time allowed under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 . 9.2 In the case before us, the facts are not in dispute that in all 577
shipping bills filed by the appellant-exporter covering the export of goods
during 01.01.2012 to 31.12.2014, the Let Export Orders have been issued
by the proper officer of Customs under the jurisdictional Commissionerate.
Further, the appellant-exporter have also produced eight certificates dated
29.11.2016 from Bombay Mercantile Co-Operative Bank Ltd., Navratan
Building, 69, P.D' Mello Road, Carnac Bunder, Mumbai certifying that export
proceeds in respect of export shipments made by M/s Rishay International,
Mumbai during the periods 01.01.2012 to 30.06.2012; 01.07.2012 to
31.12.2012; 01.01.2013 to 30.06.2013; 01.07.2013 to 31.12.2013;
01.01.2014 to 30.06.2014; 01.07.2014 to 31.12.2014; 01.01.2015 to
30.06.2015 and 01.07.2015 to 31.12.2015, have been received for all the
documents that have been received by them, and in none of the shipping
bills, the export sale proceeds are pending realisation. Similarly, eight
separate letters dated 05.12.2016 addressed to the AC, Customs, ACC,
Sahar, Mumbai have been produced from Union Bank of India, Princess
Street Branch, Devkaran Mansion, Shamaldas Gandhi Marg, Mumbai,
certifying that in respect of export shipments made by M/s Rishay
International, Mumbai have been received for all the documents that have
been received by them during similar periods covering the years 2012 to
2015, and in none of the shipping bills, the export sale proceeds are
pending realisation. On the basis of above factual evidences, we are of the
considered view, that the primary ground for rejection of drawback as
provided under Section 75 ibid does not exist in the present case before
us. C/85411/2024

9.3 The claim of Revenue that the export goods have been overvalued
by producing fake invoices, and low value goods have been actually
exported by the appellant-exporter in 577 shipments exported during
2012-2014, are supported by the statements recorded from various
persons, who are not directly connected with exports but have facilitated
generation of fake/bogus invoices. It is also a fact on record that in respect
of 577 shipments exported through ACC, the proper officers of Customs
have duly assessed the S/Bs and have allowed the exports goods to be
exported out of the country. However, there was no case of any doubt
about the value of export goods or mis-declaration about the quality, mis-
match of the export goods and the export invoices, packing list identified
at the time of export over three years by the Customs authorities. In this
background, the evidence in the form of letter dated 08.03.2018 of
Consulate General of India, Dubai, UAE reporting the scrutiny of the
documents provided by Federal Customs Authority, Dubai, stating that
goods had been cleared at Dubai and unit values has been much lower than
what has been declared to Indian Customs, are of no relevance as in none
of the S/Bs in the present case, the exports were destined to Dubai, UAE
and on the contrary all the goods in various shipments were exported to
African countries, mostly to Nigeria. 9.4 The above factual details prove that the findings recorded by the
learned Commissioner of Customs in the impugned order is contrary to the
facts on record and his findings are also not supported by any independent
evidences. For the same reason, we do not find any evidences to prove that
the declarations made in the S/Bs, with respect to value or other particulars
of export goods were in anyway incorrect or contrary to the declarations
made by the appellant. Therefore, we are of the considered view that no
specific findings have been made out for violation of sub-sections (d), (i),
and (ia) of Section 113 ibid enabling confiscation of export goods. For the
said reason, consequent imposition of redemption fine under Section
125(1) ibid and consequent imposition of penalty on the appellant under Section 114 is also not legally sustainable. 9.5 On perusal of the legal provision under of Section 114AA ibid, it
transpires that the penalty under this section was brought into the Customs
Act by Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2006 w.e.f. 13.07.2006. During
the examination of the Section 114AA ibid by the Standing Committee on
Finance on the representatives of trade expressing that the proposed
provisions were very harsh, which might lead to harassment of industries, 11 C/85411/2024

by way of summoning an exporter/importer to give a 'false statement' etc.,
it was explained by the Ministry of Finance that new Section 114AA ibid has
been proposed consequent to the detection of several cases of fraudulent
exports, where the exports were shown only on paper and no goods crossed
the Indian border. Thus, it has been made clear that the imposition of
enhanced penalty under Section 114AA ibid is applicable only for serious
frauds being committed in cases where no goods are being exported, but
only papers are being created for availing the number of benefits under
various export promotion schemes. In the present case before us, where
in all the shipments goods have been exported, is entirely different from
the case of paper exports without actual export of goods, and therefore the
provisions of Section 114AA ibid does not apply to the present case of the
appellant-exporter, where the export goods have actually been exported,
as neither there was any dummy export being made only on paper, nor
there was any criminal intent involving evasion of duty. Hence, we are of
the considered view that imposition of penalty under Section 114AA ibid
does not arise in the present case of the appellant. 10. In view of the foregoing discussions and analysis, we do not find any
merits in the impugned order passed by the learned Commissioner of
Customs to the extent it has rejected the drawback benefits and confirmed
its recovery, in respect of the goods exported by the appellant-exporter in
filing various S/Bs which were duly assessed and such goods having been
allowed clearance for export by the jurisdictional Customs authorities.
Further, we also do not any merits in the impugned order in imposition of
redemption fine on the export goods, and for imposition of penalties on the
appellant. 11. In the result, the impugned order dated 15.11.2023 passed by the
learned Commissioner of Customs-IV (Export), Air Cargo Complex (ACC),
Sahar, Andheri (East), Mumbai is set aside and the appeal filed by the
appellant is allowed in their favour, with consequential relief, if any, as per
law. (Order pronounced in the open court on 04.07.2025)

 (S.K. Mohanty)
 Member (Judicial)

 (M.M. Parthiban)
 Member (Technical)
Sinha