Dissemination of illegal products and services emerges as one of the key systemic risks across all service providers, the European Commission said in its report on the systemic risks present in Very Large Online Platforms and Very Large Online Search Engines (VLOPs and VLOSEs, respectively). The report contains details of the two-yearly risk assessments that the VLOPs and VLOSEs carried out since the European Union assigned them to these categories under the Digital Services Act (DSA). It also contains a range of other information sources, including studies by research institutions and civil society organisations.

For context, the VLOP and VLOSE categories under the DSA include platforms such as Alibaba AliExpress, Amazon Store, Apple App Store, Google Play, Google and Bing. The report suggests that all VLOPs and VLOSEs, particularly marketplaces and app stores, face these risks from dangerous/counterfeit products and apps containing malware, respectively. “Some providers presented systemic risks from products that may be compliant with the law but not with their terms and conditions, together with systemic risks from illegal products, services and activities,” the report emphasises. Besides the platforms themselves, civil society organisations raised concerns about the presence of medical and healthcare products, such as prescription-only medications, unauthorised psychoactive substances and counterfeit pharmaceuticals, as a systemic risk.

Both service providers and civil society mentioned the systemic risks posed by illegal services and activities like prostitution, the recruitment into criminal networks, offers to abduct, and hiring to kill. Some platforms also mentioned that bad actors could use their platforms for selling/exchanging high amounts of currency or illegal drugs or to offer cyberattack services. Violent content, as well as content related to harassment, doxing, grooming, and threats to life, are also key systemic risks that fall within this category.

Besides this, platforms and civil society argue that there is a risk of child sexual abuse material (CSAM), terrorist content and hate speech dissemination online. Civil society groups suggest that the design of platform interfaces and recommender systems, which stimulate engagement, can also end up prompting illegal content and can also recommend to users the illegal content they currently consume. Similar risks also exist with platform advertising because of targeted advertising techniques.

“Across the board, techniques to evade detection, such as coded language and links to off-platform interactions and transactions, have been referenced by VLOP and VLOSE providers and CSOs [civil society organisations],” the report states. Civil society groups emphasised that platforms need to understand local cultural references when moderating content. They mentioned the risks of users bypassing moderation policies through backup content and profiles. This means that users duplicate pieces of content/accounts and may make references to restricted content. Some of this content also consists of outlinks to other platforms. Further, audio, podcast, and livestream content are particularly prone to circumventing content moderation policies because platforms’ content moderation systems might be less developed for audio formats.

The report provides examples of how bad actors could bypass platform-level protections and disseminate illegal content on their services. For instance, based on X’s risk assessment report, extremist groups might circumvent its moderation efforts by using coded language and updating their symbols. These groups can also use obfuscating keywords and manipulate their images by cropping or adjusting colours to circumvent systems that rely on these indicators for detection. Facebook also indicates similar methods that bad actors use to evade detection.

“As the types of content and terms used for hate speech are frequently changing, consistently detecting and enforcing against hate speech remains challenging. For example, threat actors continue to explore ways to circumvent detection and enforcement, such as implying instead of explicitly stating things; new trends can emerge as contentious depending on regional nuances. Additionally, often users can post content that is borderline hate speech, which makes over-enforcement challenging to manage,” the platform’s 2024 risk assessment report indicates.

DSA mentions that one of the risks platforms need to assess for is any negative effects on the exercise of fundamental rights (including that of freedom of speech and expression). Both service providers and civil society have highlighted the risk of over-moderation. “Over-moderation may negatively affect civic discourse and create risks of negative effects on the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information. This risk factor may be exacerbated by shortcomings of appeals mechanisms for content or account restrictions and/or due to an over-reliance on automated means of content moderation without sufficient human review,” the report explains.

Besides overmoderation, the report also highlights that mechanisms meant for reporting harmful content could also be used to curb lawful speech. For instance, in Wikipedia’s risk assessment report, it mentions that “user-to-user interactions on Wikipedia could cause distress or other emotional harm to targeted individuals or groups (youth; women; racial, ethnic, or linguistic minorities; LGBTQIA+ individuals; persons with disabilities; etc.) in such a way that their participation in Wikipedia projects is deterred and their freedom of expression and contributions to knowledge equity are diminished.”

While the report evaluates the platforms based on the Digital Services Act, the risks highlighted within it are equally applicable in other parts of the world, including India. As such, the findings offer valuable insights for platform governance in other regions as well.

In India, the government has been looking to make amendments to the IT Rules to put the onus on the platforms to curb synthetic information. As part of the discourse around these amendments, one of the most pressing concerns has been the worry around over-regulation of legitimate content like satire or parody . In this context, a better understanding of how the existing systems end up over-moderating speech could alert the Indian government to the dangers of increasing the scope of regulation in ways that could curb free speech.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event