SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Axis Bank and NO BROKER T scam
DATE: 2022-11-16
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ywxkyn/axis_bank_and_no_broker_t_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was scammed off of ₹25,324.5 yesterday. Here is the full story:

I had a deduction issue with my Axis Bank My Zone Credit Card. I called to Phone banking officers and talked with them. I called three times and talked to two of them(the second person didn't utter a word). The third officer did register and said my money will be refunded within a month. 

Three days later, I got a call from a lady officer saying she was from Axis Bank and she had called to fix my issue. Now, there were multiple red flags, like sending me WhatsApp link, asking me to raise my credit limit, the toll free number she called, etc. I was negligent of all this because my gullible ass didn't raise a question because I thought she was legit since she knew I had a problem with my credit card.

Money was deducted, she denied saying she didn't spent the money, sent me her ID, name Sonakshi Sharma I'd number 138269. The money was sent to NO BROKER T. I immediately called phone banking officer and blocked the card. Sent details of the scammer and transaction on axis Bank support email. The bank issued a service request. Within 24 hrs, I got two emails. The first email said the transaction was not settled from No broker T, and that the money will be refunded within 8-10 days. The second email in the evening 5 hrs ago of this post said the investigation was closed and I am liable to pay the entire amount! Why? Because I shared the OTP with the scammer. I told them why I trusted her, and claimed that the officers are somehow related with the scammers since the scammer knew I had issue with the card. The bank has raised another service request.

I'm pessimistic about the issue getting resolved because I believe Axis Bank employees and No Broker technologies are involved in the scam. I had talked about getting a credit card from a local branch and I was told that I'm not eligible since I have a zero savings account. The criteria is a current account with min. balance of 25000. I'm earning enough money to pay, but I am technically not eligible. Still, I got call from Axis Bank for my zone credit card and I availed it because I needed it for international transaction. The card I got was from Bangalore. And No Broker technologies is from Bangalore. Axis Bank is issuing credit cards to people and sharing the information to No Broker Technologies. Then the firm is targetting them with fraudulent calls. Either telling them with redeeming reward points or more subtle case like me. I would have never fallen to the scam if she had told me to redeem edge points, but that is in the past. This post is to warn people how banks are filled with scammers, that your money is not safe in your bank account. They get their commission, and then get the hard-earned money of the customer who pays the credit card fraud. Now, if you don't pay, they will black list your account and destroy your credit score. You know how slow the justice system is. Are you willing to bet to spend years when in case you lose the battle, you'll be charged with penalities of not paying the dues in time. When the system itself is the monster, you're bound to fail. I'm not alone who has been scammed by Axis and No Broker T. And I believe this firm has ties to employees of other banks too. If someone with power to take any action against No Broker T is reading this, please take any action you can take.

Thank you for being patient and reading my post 🙏🏻