This first application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure has been filed on behalf of the applicant for grant of bail in
 connection with Crime No.603/2022 registered at Police Station Kolgavan,
 District Satna, for the offences punishable under Sections 420 / 34 and 409 of the
 Indian Penal Code. The applicant is in jail since 28.04.2022. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant has been Digitally signed by ANIL CHOUDHARY Date: 2022.07.09 12:32:45 IST falsely implicated in the alleged offence. In fact, he has not done any cheating or 2 fraud with anybody but merely because in a memorandum of other accused
 person, his name has been taken, therefore, he has been made accused. He
 submits that the present applicant has never taken any money from the account
 of anybody and even otherwise if the allegation of prosecution is treated to be
 correct, the offence of Section 409 is not made out against him because nothing
 has been entrusted to the applicant and, therefore, he is asking that bail
 application shall be considered. The counsel for the State on the other hand opposes the submission
 made by the counsel for the applicant and submits that from the contents of
 FIR, it is clear that the name of present applicant is there in the FIR itself and

 officer of the Blue Dart Courier Company made the complaint apprehending
 that it is the applicant who has committed fraud with the company as after
 taking ID numbers of the company's employee, fake and false codes have been
 created and on the basis of those fake codes, Company had to pay the amount
 but even after making payment, the company did not receive any parcel and as
 such, the company suffered loss. He submits that the statement of witnesses
 has been recorded by the police and each and every witness has stated that it is
 the present applicant who has supplied item and in lieu of that item he received
 the amount. He submits that the account of present applicant was also verified,
 in which transaction has been ascertained and the amount much more than the
 salary of present applicant has been found in his account. He also submits that
 sufficient material has been collected by the police against the applicant and,
 therefore, he has rightly been made accused. He also submits that the offence of Signature Not Verified 409 is made out because the applicant being an agent of the company i.e. Blue SAN Dart Courier Company, not only cheated the company but on the basis of fake Digitally signed by ANIL CHOUDHARY Date: 2022.07.09 12:32:45 IST IDs in the name of company, he was calling different material and sold the same 3 in the market and as such, it is nothing but a criminal breach of trust in the name
 of company, therefore, he is not entitled to be released on bail. After hearing the rival submissions of the counsel for the parties and
 perusal of case diary, without commenting anything on the merits of the case, at
 this juncture, I am not inclined to consider the bail application of present
 applicant and, therefore, it is rejected. (SANJAY DWIVEDI)
 JUDGE
 ac/-