This is to inform you with a fact that i gaurav verma resident of 33-d dda flats mansarover park shahdara delhi-32 have faced an online money fraud in the name of amazon india on date 20/12/2018. Around 12:36 pm i received a call from mobile no: [protected] saying, "we are pleased to inform you that since you our daily customer of online shopping we the amazon india company would like to give you a free gift hamper since you are our daily online shopping customer." they asked me to do a shopping of min. 5, 000 to get this gift and as of hearing all the cases of online fraud i denied with that but somehow they convinced me by giving all the details of mine which is saved on amazon, they gave me full record of on which date i purchased what with order id. They gave me their name and employment code with saying that this call is recorded on government portal and asked me to record their voice if i want too so by this i somehow convinced with their words. Keeping in mind that i have to buy some products of my use i agreed purchase of 5, 000 products and paying by bhim app of amount 5252 with upi ref. No[protected] to paytm account no: [protected] even though if i didn’t get my gift i still have the products later when i asked my receipt or invoice detail they mail me that particular product link which i ordered in the name of amazon offer from email id [protected]@gmail.com when i asked that its not from amazon.in they said it’s a daily basis offer only. So, after that they asked me for the free gift i have to pay 11, 999 as a gst tax of the product which is refundable on spot as they require gst and invoice no for custom clearance which is paid on the same account by bhim app with upi no[protected] after which they said due to bank transaction charges of 10rs the system is unable to proceed the refund gst tax refund and under certain policy they can’t refund my money back so to further getting the same amount back i need to do another transaction including that 10rs i. E. 12, 009 so that the system can approve my refund they also send me the screenshot from whatsapp of that error from mobile no : [protected] So while doing the third payment its declining again and again they asked me to do a paytm transition in the name of priyanka of mobile no : [protected] and i did it unfortunately after that they said they are sharing the invoice to my email id and refund to my bank account but i didn’t get anything. And obviously after some time all numbers are switched off. So, in and all while all this i lost 29, 260/- and it’s a case of online money fraud by using amazon’s company name and data breaching using amazon’s company server. So the company amazon india is also liable to have a poor security server that unsecure its customers information. They have all the information of mine including all my orders and my numerous delivery address where i use to deliver my products. I’m enclosing the bank account details of the recipient: Recipient name : amazon in Recipient account number :[protected] Ifsc code : pytm0123456 (Noida branch, gautam budh nagar) Also i’m attaching the printouts of all the transaction which i have done with all the necessary details. I request you to please look into the matter as soon as possible and also the necessary actions have to be taken upon those online fraud people and also the amazon company for not having a secure information data base.