SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I Borrowed from an Illegal Loan App So that You do not have To
DATE: 2024-12-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hkj4dh/i_borrowed_from_an_illegal_loan_app_so_that_you/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a record of my 15-day mental ordeal with an app called ‘PLB Instant Loan’ filled with unnecessary stress and contemplating my decision-making. 

Instance 1: I desperately needed cash and searched for loan apps and this one pops on top. Since it is on the iOS app store, I believe it is legitimate and did the process. Gave them my bank details, access to my contacts, a selfie, and other usual details. It was funny that the app asked me for my social media profile for ‘Quick approval’. I don't think much of it but wait for the amount I applied for. I applied for a loan of 4500 or something with an interest of 2500 so it is 7000 when I repay but when I checked, they had automatically approved a loan of 1600 plus an interest of 1400 without asking me, with no way of canceling it. It showed loan processing and the amount got credited the next day, which didn’t serve any purpose. So I thought to myself I would pay this on the due date and be done with it but I received a call from a Pakistani-sounding guy with an international number just 4 days after I took the loan saying I would have to repay the loan amount. I argued that it was not even the due date but the guys at the other end were adamant about what was showing on their ‘system’ and said they would create a WhatsApp group with my contacts and send morphed naked images with my face. The abuses and threats start rolling in, I started regretting taking a loan out and since I had the money, I just paid. 

Instance 2: A week later, I needed money again so I had no option but this app. I could borrow 4500 this time plus interest of 1500 and waited for the guys to call me 4 days later which they did. I promptly paid and thought to myself I am never doing this as my tough times were over. But these guys are devious and have other plans. The app in the first place is not slick or well built, so you know these guys are not a legit NBFC. So before I delete the app, I just wanted to make sure the app showed my loan as ‘cleared’ so these guys don't bother again. But when I opened the app, there was a pop-up asking if I needed another loan to which I selected no but magically, I was approved for a loan of 6000 plus an interest of 5000. I started sweating so I called the same guys who said just pay it back to a UPI ID that they’ll give me and I don't need to pay the interest since it was a mistake. I did pay the amount that I received ‘by mistake’ but after this, they started saying I would have to pay the extra 5000 as a penalty and there was nothing he could do about it because of the ‘system process’.

I folded after trying to prove my case, I did not want my weekend ruined so I told him I’d pay and he sent me another UPI ID. Payment fails with a message saying something like ‘Bank not allowing the transaction due to security concerns’. I send him the screenshot and he sends me another UPI ID, and this goes on for hours and at this point, he starts to lose it, starts abusing me, threats saying he’ll ruin my life, and so forth. I kept calm and kept saying the same thing that I was willing to pay and get this over with, the UPI IDs you sent aren't working. He just didn't understand and proceeded to tell me I was playing with him, kept shouting as he lost his brains, and at this point, I realized, he was more desperate than me to close this and if he could, he would've done the fake image-whatsapp group thing already. He also told me he would call the numbers on my phone and inform them I had taken money. 

All the hours of stress and trauma suddenly disappeared as I just hung up, blocked the number, and proceeded with my day. I kept getting calls from other numbers on WhatsApp but I proceeded to block them. I had paid what I owed already and this was 6 PM and these guys stopped calling me. 

Over the next 4-5 days, I received calls from numbers ranging from Austria to Singapore. I immediately blocked them. Four days ago, I received a WhatsApp text saying they were from the app, with my selfie image from the loan application along with a few phone numbers from my contact list. I blocked it again, and the calls continued to come over the next few days until they stopped completely. 

Yesterday I looked this up on the internet and found a Reddit post that confirmed that they move on once they realise you’re a brick wall. Also, I find accounts of a person committing suicide because his wife took out a loan from the same or similar app and when she couldn't repay, morphed images of her were sent to their friends and family. 

I am so glad that this whole ordeal is over for me as I feared for my reputation. My contact list contains friends and family, along with contacts of famous people in the country from different fields because of my line of work. I was ashamed of myself because I had worked too hard to get to where I was in my career and to be embarrassed by something like this. 

My takeaways: 

* These recovery calls come from Pakistani guys and they use Indian UPI IDs and QRs for repayment. The operation is being run by people on both sides of the border. 
* If you do take a loan out, the harassment only starts when you answer the call. If you don't have the money to pay back or if you think you can ask them for an extension, save yourself some stress. Just keep blocking the numbers and they stop. 
* I’m not sure what to do if they start sending morphed images of you to your contacts because it hasn't happened with me, so its best you dont risk it even.