Captioned appeal filed by the Revenue, pertaining to assessment year
(AY) 2013-14, is directed against the order passed by the Learned
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), National Faceless Appeal
Centre, Delhi [in short 'NFAC/Ld. CIT(A)'], dated 01.06.2023, which in
turn arises out of an assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer (in
short 'assessing officer') u/s 147 r.w.s. 144 B of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'), dated 26.03.2022. 2. The grounds of appeal raised by the Revenue are as follows: 3. The facts of the case which can be stated quite shortly are as follows: 4. In response to the notice of the assessing officer, the assessee
submitted its written submission before the assessing officer, which is
reproducedbelow: Further, no statement or any material has been relied upon to even remotely
suggest that the scrip 'Tuni Textiles Mills Limited' is penny stock. On perusal of

 Page | 3 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

the report, as reproduced in the draft assessment order, it is evident that there are
certain peculiarities of penny stock companies such as syndicate members, fixed
brokers, entry operators, purchase of share by beneficiary final sale by
beneficiary, dummy directors etc who manipulate and control the price of the
shares. In the present company none of the above attributes are proved by
assessing officer since there is no mention of name of the broker of assessee
through whom assessee purchase and sold shares of Tuni Textiles. There is no
evidence/material/statement on record to suggest that the assessee or his broker
was involved in the price manipulation or private placement of shares. Further,
the syndicate of members of company and persons as alleged in statement
reproduced in the draft assessment order was involved in preferential allotment
of shares, where as the assessee had purchased the shares through the broker
whose name was not involved in those manipulators. Further facts which establish that 'Tuni Textiles Mills Limited is not penny stock. 15. The following facts further establish that 'Tuni Textiles Mills Limited is not
penny stock

 The scrip has not been delisted from the stock exchange and even
 today there is trading in the scrip unlike in cases of penny stock
 where the scrip is delisted from the stock exchange.
 The scrip is traded on both BSE and NSE. Generally, penny stock
 scrips are only traded in BSE. There is a strong reason for rise in value of share as evidenced from
 the Annual Reports of the company placed on record vide previous
 submission. There is no evidence of cash taken or given in the present case which
 is generally the case in penny stock companies. There is no evidence of any exit provider, accommodation entry
 provider in the present case which is generally the case in penny
 stock companies. There is no evidence that the scrip or broker through whom assesse
 has made transaction of purchase and sale was suspended. 16. It is submitted that in the present case, as stated above, none of attributes are
present are normally there in penny stock companies. 17. My care is fully covered by the decision of Hon'ble "B" Bench of ITAT,
Kolkata whereby the appeal of the assessee is allowed and the addition us. 68 of
the Act due to LTCG In sop of Tuni Textiles deleted, is that case, the learned
assessing officer had served the copy of statement recorded of promoter of Turi
Textiles and also made addition of LTCG u/s 68 of the Act. The appellant had
submitted the copy of the contract note and bank statements to prove the
genuineness of the transactions of shares. The Revenue had no specific evidence
against the assessee that the LTCG derived from transfer of shares in Tuni
Textiles was bogus. Hence the addition was deleted by the ITAT. In the present case, the assessee has already placed on record the contract
notes/bill for sale of shares and this substantiates the fact that assessee or his
broker was not involved in price ragging or manipulation activities as alleged by

 Page | 4 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

 assessing officer. Further, assessing officer does not have specific evidence in this
 regard. Hence, the assessee wants to refer the judicial precedent and allow the
 claim of exemption of LTCG. 18. Recently the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pr. CIT v. Smt. Krishna
 Devi in ITA No. 125 of 2020 dated 15.01.2021 held that long term capital gain
 earned by the assessee cannot be considered as bogus once the shares have been
 purchased through stock exchange, payments have been made through banking
 channel, and the sales have been routed from demat account and the
 consideration has been received through banking channels. The relevant
 observations of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court are as under: The assessing officer alleged it to be penny stock and he claimed that the
trading in such stock was controlled by few operators and rise in prices of
this stock was artificially created. He also gave finding that he re-opened
the case based on information received from Director of Income Tax
(Inv). He suspected about the same and presumed that the trading was pre-
arranged. The assessing officer, finally treated entire sale consideration as
bogus and added Rs.80,06,545/- to total income of assessee, as
unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of the Income Tax Act. Page | 5 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand 6. Aggrieved by the order of the assessing officer, the assessee carried
the matter in appeal before Ld. CIT(A), who hasallowed the appeal of the
assessee, observing as follows: Therefore, the additions made by the learned assessing officer for sum of
 Rs.80,06,545/- on account of capital gain is deleted. 6.10 Accordingly, the appeal made by the assessee is allowed." 7. Aggrieved by the order of Ld. CIT(A), the Revenue is in appeal
before us. 8. The Learned Senior Departmental Representative (Ld. Sr. DR) for the
Revenue submitted that impugned scrip 'Tuni Textile' is a penny scrip
and during the assessment proceedings, the assessee has failed to prove
the genuineness of the transaction. The Ld. Sr. DR submitted that the
assessee has generated the capital gain to defraud the Revenue. The Ld.
Sr. DR also pointed out that the holding period of scrip is only 22 months.
The Ld. Sr. DR, therefore relied on the findings of the assessing officer
and further relied on the following judgments: 9. The Ld. Sr. DR submitted that just because assessee paid to Security
Transaction Tax (STT), does not mean the transaction becomes genuine.
Therefore, Ld. Sr. DR for the Revenue relied on the findings of the
assessing officer and contended that the order passed by the assessing
officer may be upheld. 10. On the other hand, Learned Counsel for the assessee, defendant, the
order passed by the ld CIT(A) and stated that ld CIT(A) has passed a
reasoned and speaking order covering all the aspects. The ld. Counsel
reiterated the findings of the ld CIT(A) and stated that order of the ld.
CIT(A) may be upheld. 11. We have given our thoughtful consideration to rival contention. We
have perused case file as well as paper books furnished by assessee. We
note that assessee purchased 8,500 shares of 'Tuni Textile' on 04.08.2010
from the M/s Sharukh N Tara for the sum of Rs. 1,65,048.36/-, the details
are given below: The assessee submitted copy of contract note received from M/s Sharukh
N. Tara, vide paper book page no.14 to 15.Immediately after purchasing
the shares a request letter regarding demat account details was duly sent to
assessee by the Broker M/s. Sharukh N. Tara which is placed at paper
book page no. 16. The assessee, also submitted Balance Sheet along with
the Schedule of Investments for the financial year 2009-2010 wherein the
Investment in shares of KGN is evident. The assessee has also explained,
the source of purchase stating that it is from, income generated from sale

 Page | 9 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

proceed of various shares sold on 14.07.2010, 20.07.2010, 26.07.2010,
30.07.2010 (Evident from the sale contact notes and ledger account of
M/s. Sharukh N. Tara enclosed at paper page no.19 to 27, and such sale of
sharesare already taxed in the relevant Assessment Year i.e. 2011-12, vide
ITR and Computation of Income at paper book page no.28 to 30. Out of
the sale proceeds, the shares of Tuni Textiles were purchased which is
also evident from the contra ledger account of the Broker attached.
Therefore, we note that assessee has explained the source of purchase of
shares in a satisfactory manner. 12. The assessee held the shares for more than 12 months of the period
which is evident through the below mentioned table. The assessee has sold the shares of 'Tuni Textiles & KGN' during F.Y.
2012-13 and the transactions carried out by the assessee through ANS
Private Limited who is SEBI registered Stockbroker. The details of the
transactions are as follows: 13. Thus, the above-mentioned facts have been duly complied with in
case of the assessee and thus, the assessee can duly claim exemption u/s
10(38) of the Act.The Hon`ble Gujarat High Court in the case of PCIT v.
Champalal Gopiram Agarwal, R/TAXAPPEAL NO, 366 OF 2023 JULY
25, 2023, held that the Tribunal found that assessee had discharged the
initial burden cast upon it under provisions of section 68 . Shares of
companies were purchased online, payments were made through banking
channels, and shares were dematerialized. Additionally, the shares were
transferred from the dematerialized account and received consideration
through legitimate banking channels. The assessing officer did not have
any independent source or evidence to show an agreement between the
assessee and any other party to convert unaccounted money by taking the
fictitious loss. The decision of assessing officer was unsupported by any
material on record, and the finding was purely on an assumption basis.
Thus, no substantial question of law arose from the order of the Tribunal,
and the same was to be upheld. We note that the assessee submitted the
following documents and evidences, before the assessing officer viz: (i)
copy of contract note received from M/s Sharukh N. Tara (vide Pb. 14 to 15), (ii) Request letter regarding demat account details (vide Pb. 16), (iii)
balance sheet along with the Schedule of Investments for the financial
year 2009 to 2010 (vide Pb. 17 to 18), (iv) Sale contract notes and ledger
account of M/s Sharukh N. Tara of Shares - Source of purchase (vide Pb.
19 to 27), (v) ITR and computation of income of AY.2011-12 (vide PB.
28 to 30), (vi) Notice dated 07.04.2011 issued by BSE about subdivision

 Page | 12 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

of the shares from one share into 10 shares (vide Pb. 32 to 37), (vii)
Contract note & ledger reflecting sale of shares (vide Pb. 32 to 37), (viii)
Bank statements reflecting sale of shares (vide Pb. 38 to 40) and (ix)
transaction statement from period 01.04.2012 to 31.03.2013 (vide Pb. 83
to 99).We note that by submitting the above documents and evidences, the
assessee has proved that the transaction was done through the banking
channel and that satisfied the condition mentioned in section 10(38) of the
Act, moreover the period of holding is also 22 months. The Learned
Counsel also submitted that in assessee's case no action has been taken by
the Stock Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and there is no investigation
report of the SEBI. 14. We note that Hon`ble Jurisdictional High Court of Gujarat in the case of
Jagat Pravinbhai Sarabhai, [2022] 142 taxmann.com 247, held that where
Assessing Officer noted that assessee had indulged in scrip of shell company
and had claimed long term capital gain on sale of shares and made addition
under section 68 holding that entire transaction was bogus and in the nature of
penny stock, however, since genuineness of investment in shares by assessee
was substantiated by him by producing copy of transaction statement for period
from 1-6- 2001 to 1-10-2010 and shares were retained for more than ten years
and were sold after such long time, hence investment was not bogus therefore it
cannot be treated that investment was made in penny stock. The findings of the
Hon`ble Court is reproduced below: Page | 13 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand 3. The assessee filed the return of income for the assessment year 2011-12 on
 29-3-2012 declaring his total income Rs. 3,11,490/-. Subsequently the
 assessment was reopened as information was received that assessee has
 indulged into script of shell company and had claimed long term capital gain
 on sale of shares of Devika Proteins Limited to the tune of Rs.2,10,474/- and
 that the amount was claimed as exemption under section 10(38) of the Income-
 tax Act, 1961 (hereafter referred to as 'the Act')

 3.1 The Assessing Officer made addition of the said amount. The entire
 transaction was treated as bogus and in the nature of penny stock. By adding
 Rs.2,10,474/- under section 68 of the Act, total income was assessed at
 Rs.5,21,964/-. 3.2 In appeal by the assessee before the Commissioner of Income-tax
 (Appeals), the issue was re-examined. According to the appellate authority the
 appellant assessee had furnished evidence to show that the shares were
 brought as genuine investment which was long back in the year 2000-01. As
 the shares were in the nature of old investment, they could not be treated as
 penny stock by any stretch of imagination. 4. The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal further examined the question in appeal
 preferred by the revenue and confirmed the view of the appellate authority
 noticing that the shares were purchased in the year 2001 and they were sold
 after long time in the year 2010-11. 5. The genuineness of investment in the shares by the assessee was
 substantiated by him by producing copy of transaction statement for the period
 from 1-6-2001 to 1-10-2010. The investment was made in the year 2000-01.
 The shares were retained for more than ten years and were sold after such
 long time. These circumstances suggested that the investment was not bogus or
 investment made in penny stock. The shares were purchased in order to invest
 and not for the purpose of earning exempted income by frequent trading in
 short span. 6. The finding recorded by the appellate authority and confirmed by the
 appellate tribunal is based on material before them. They are in the realm of
 findings of fact. No error could be noticed in the findings and conclusion that
 the investment was longstanding and genuine and was not penny stock on the
 basis of which the capital gain was wrongly claimed. 6.1 On the facts of case, no question of law much less substantial question of
 law arises. 7. Resultantly, appeal is dismissed". 15. We note that Judgment of Hon`ble Calcutta High Court in the case of
Swati Bajaj and others (supra), referred by learned DR for the revenue,
should not be applicable to the assessee, as it is outside the territorial

 Page | 14 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

jurisdiction of Gujarat. However, the Judgments of Hon`ble Jurisdictional
High Court of Gujarat are applicable to the assessee under
consideration.The Judicial discipline demands that once an order has been
passed by the jurisdictional High Court, on a particular issue, lower
authorities are duty bound to act in accordance with the same. 16. The Hon`ble, jurisdictional Gujarat High Court in the case of Mamta
Rajivkumar Agarwal, Tax Appeal No.408 of 2023, dated 11.09.2023 held
that there was no evidence available on record suggesting that the assessee
or his broker was involved in rigging up of the price of the script of M/s
Shree Nath Commercial & Finance Ltd. The assessee had acted in good
faith. The Tribunal, therefore, correctly held that the Assessing Officer
had acted only on assumption which was misconceived. The Hon`ble,
jurisdictional Gujarat High Court in the recent case of Shri Ambalal
Chimanlal Patel, vide Tax Appeal No.260 of 2024, dated 15.04.2024 held
that both the appellate authorities, that is, "CIT(A) and ITAT" have
taken into consideration the notice of contract memo placed on record by
the respondent assessee with regard to the purchase and sale of shares and
it is also found by the appellant that the respondent was holding shares of
other fifteen companies and it has continued to hold the shares over three
years and therefore, sale of the shares cannot be said to be bogus merely
on the basis of suspicion on account of the fact that the substantial
quantum of capital gain and has been earned by the assessee on account of
trading in respect of the said shares. Merely because trading in the shares
of the said company was suspended on the Stock Exchange, in absence of
any material brought on record to suggest that purchase and sales of said
shares was bogus, the Assessing Officer was not justified in absence of
any material to support his finding that there has been collusion or
connivance between the broker and the assessee for the introduction of his

 Page | 15 ITA No.272/RJT/2023 Shah Parag Gulabchand

own unaccounted money, resulting into a bogus transaction. We note that
there is no infirmity in the order passed by the CIT(A). That being so, we
decline to interfere with the order of Id. CIT(A) in deleting the aforesaid
additions. His order on this addition is, therefore, upheld and the grounds
of appeal of the Revenue are dismissed. 17. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. Order is pronounced in the open court on 31/07/2024.