Consequent upon the repeal of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
 Practices Act, 1969 ('the MRTP Act'), the instant case pertaining to alleged
 cartelization in steel industry was transferred to the Commission from the
 Office of Director General (Investigation & Registration) of the MRTP
 Commission ('DG I&R') in view of the provisions contained under section
 66(6) of the Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act'). Facts 2. The MRTP Commission took cognizance of the matter on the basis of
 an article published in the Financial Express on 11.03.2008 wherein it was
 reported that the steel companies raised the steel prices without any
 justification, which have a sharp inflationary impact. It was also reported that
 the prices immediately impact the construction and automobile sector. In the
 news article, it was further reported that even state-owned firms like Steel
 Authority of India Limited ('SAIL') and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited
 ('RINL') have raised the prices. 3. Subsequently, Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) - a body
 sponsored by Ministry of Commerce, Government of India - vide its complaint
 dated 18.03.2008 addressed to the DG I&R also apprehended possible
 cartelization in the steel industry and requested for intervention in terms of the
 provisions of the MRTP Act. The EEPC alleged that the steel majors increased
 the prices by more than three times across the different steel categories.
 During the period April 2007 - January 2008, steel prices were increased by MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 2 of 46 an average of 10%. EEPC further alleged that if Rs. 3,000/- per ton increase in
 the month of February 2008 was taken into account, then the price increase of
 steel amounted to an astounding 20% across the board for the period April
 2007 - February 2008 and the increase was sharper during the period
 September 2007 - February 2008. 4. It was alleged by EEPC that the rise in the steel price in India is much
 higher in comparison to the world prices. Further, it was stated that such sharp
 steel price increase was detrimental to the Indian engineering industry and the
 exporters of engineering goods especially those belonging to the small and
 medium scale sectors like critical engineering industry segments e.g. Hand
 Tools, Bicycles and parts, Auto components, Castings etc. Accordingly, it was
 requested that the MRTP Commission may take a look at the steel prices in
 India and initiate suitable measures to control the monopolistic pricing in the
 steel industry for the benefit of the small and medium scale industry, who are
 at the mercy of steel majors. 5. DG I&R initiated investigation against 34 steel companies in
 compliance of the order of investigation dated 14.03.2008 passed by the
 MRTP Commission. All the 34 companies filed their replies denying the
 allegations made against them in the news article as well as in EEPC's letter. 6. At this stage, consequent upon the repeal of the MRTP Act, the matter
 stood transferred to the Commission under section 66 (6) of the Act. Directions to the DG 7. The Commission after considering the entire material available on
 record vide its order dated 18.06.2010 opined that their existed a prima facie
 case and accordingly, directed the Director General (DG) to cause an
 investigation to be made into the matter and to submit a report. 8. The DG, after receiving the directions from the Commission,
 investigated the matter and submitted an investigation report dated 31.05.2011
 to the Commission on 01.06.2011. Investigation by the DG 9. The investigation by the DG concentrated on four major primary steel
 manufacturers, two each from public and private sectors, viz. SAIL, RINL,
 Tata Steel Limited (TSL) and JSW Steel Limited (JSW). Further, the
 investigation process was restricted to find out their conduct in the pricing of
 HR coils and HR Plates (Flat Products) & Bars and Rods (Long Products),
 which comprise of around 60% of total non-alloy steel production. The scope
 of investigations covered the period from April, 2007 to March, 2010. 10. For the purpose of investigation of cartelization, data pertaining to
 pricing, production, sales and cost of the aforesaid four products in respect of
 the four primary steel producers was collected and analyzed by the DG. Effect
 of changes in production/ supply and dispatches/ demand on price was also
 examined. Further, changes in the profit margin of these four companies with
 changes in cost of production were also analyzed. 11. Based on the investigations, the DG reached the following conclusions: The representative of top steel producers gave varied reasons for price changes
 which were not supported with any evidence. (iv) The investigations further found a case for collusive price leadership. The
 DG concluded the possibility of existence of informal cartel amongst the top
 steel producers. (v) Circumstantial evidence and economic analysis also indicated that the top
 steel producers have decided the pricing in a co-ordinated fashion. 12. In view of the above, the DG concluded that the steel producers have
 contravened the provisions of section 3(3)(a) & (b) of the Act due to their
 informal agreement for determining sale pricing, limiting and controlling
 production of steel products. Consideration of the DG report by the Commission 13. The Commission in its ordinary meeting held on 08.06.2011
 considered the investigation report submitted by the DG and decided to
 forward copies thereof to the parties for filing their replies/ objections to the
 report of the DG. The Commission also directed the parties to appear for oral
 hearing, if so desired. Replies/ Objections/ Submissions of the parties 14. On being noticed, the parties filed their respective replies/ objections/
 submissions to the report of the DG besides making oral submissions. Replies/ objections/ submissions of the opposite parties

 TSL 15. At the outset, it was submitted that since the investigation was
 transferred under the provisions of section 66(6) of the Act, the substantive
 law that would apply to the instant case is the MRTP Act, 1969. It was stated
 that the said provision clearly stipulated that even if the investigation is
 ordered as per the procedure contemplated under the Act, the substantive law
 with respect to the scope of the investigation that has been transferred cannot
 undergo a change. Therefore, it is the MRTP Act which should apply to the
 instant matter. 16. It was further submitted that under the MRTP Act the DG I&R had
 powers to initiate an inquiry on his own motion or take cognizance on the
 basis of a complaint addressed directly to him. However, the drafters of the
 Act, recognizing that the relevant provisions of the MRTP Act were
 susceptible to misuse, consciously ensured that under the scheme of the Act,
 only the Commission (as opposed to both the Commission and the DG) was
 vested with suo moto powers. This critical distinction is unequivocally clear
 from a bare perusal of both the Act and the Competition Commission of India
 (General) Regulations, 2009. 17. Furthermore, it was submitted that section 41(1) of the Act casts a duty
 upon the DG to assist the Commission in investigating into any contravention
 of the Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder. The DG shall provide MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 6 of 46 such assistance 'when so directed by the Commission'. Therefore, absent such
 direction, the DG cannot, on its own motion, conduct investigations into
 matters unless the Commission has specifically directed it to do so. 18. Another crucial error committed by the DG during the course of the
 investigation was that the DG, while identifying the period relevant for
 investigation, states that 'the news item and EEPC complaint allege price rise
 in the primary steel products during the period April 2007, to February,
 2008'. However, despite having stated the above, the DG has gone beyond the
 scope of the investigation ordered by the Commission and decided to extend
 the scope of investigation to a period of three years starting with April, 2007
 to March, 2010. 19. It was also averred that not only has the DG acted without appropriate
 directions from the Commission, but, where directions have been given, the
 DG has also failed in its duty to carry out such directions. The manner in
 which the DG has proceeded with the investigation is a telling tale of the
 lackadaisical approach adopted by the DG. The Commission had directed the
 DG to investigate into the alleged cartelization in the steel industry and
 specifically pointed towards 34 steel companies. The DG on its part and
 without any reason or logic has arbitrarily decided to investigate only four
 steel manufacturers i.e. SAIL, RINL, TSL and JSW and furthermore the DG
 has concentrated only on four steel products (HR coil, HR plates, Bars and
 Rods) while acknowledging that there are many more steel products that the
 DG has not included in its analysis. This, despite the clear direction of the
 Commission and the presence of several large players in the steel industry.
 Assuming without admitting that the DG has the ability to expand the scope or
 the period of investigation, the converse (where the DG unilaterally decides to
 restrict the scope of investigation) cannot be held to be valid. 20. It was argued that these ultra vires acts of the DG go to the root of the
 matter and have yielded erroneous, misconceived and fatally flawed results.
 Keeping in mind the above, it was submitted that the Commission ought to
 reject the report failing which grave injustice will result. 21. It was averred that the report lacks any cogent material to even assess
 the allegations of cartelization. It presupposes the existence of a cartel even
 before defining the relevant product or the relevant geographic market. This is
 palpable from the fact that the DG has thought it prudent to concentrate on
 only the above mentioned four Flat and Long Products. The DG in its report
 has arrived at baseless and unsubstantiated conclusions without having due
 regard to the context and factual background prevailing in the steel industry. 22. It was also submitted that the DG has adopted a careless and casual
 approach to this investigation. The products that have been selected by the DG
 are not always produced even by the limited number of companies that have
 been investigated by the DG. It is not only illogical but also preposterous to
 suggest or attempt to prove the existence of a cartel between manufacturers
 that do not even produce all the products that have been taken into account.
 Thus, the identification of the products that should be considered for the
 proposes of investigating the allegations of cartelization is misplaced in its
 entirety. The report is most unsubstantiated on this aspect and is based on
 flawed assumptions in as much as it completely overlooks the critical fact that
 the steel products produced by the secondary manufacturers constitute more
 than 60% of the crude steel production in India. This glaring omission
 compromises the entire investigation undertaken by the DG and as such
 renders the report inaccurate and unreliable. 23. The DG has glossed over the fact that under the scheme of the Act, the
 'relevant market' is to be determined by reference to the 'relevant product
 market' and the 'relevant geographic market'. However, the report does not MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 8 of 46 contain even a single reference to the 'relevant geographic market'. This
 clearly demonstrate the utter disregard of the DG to establish and recognize
 anti-trust/ competition investigation methodologies. 24. On the issue of identification of the companies for the purposes of
 investigation, it was admitted that although the manufacturing method/ process
 adopted by the primary and secondary producers to manufacture their products
 differs from one another, it is critical to note that both primary and secondary
 producers manufacture and sell the same products in the market. The complete
 and unsubstantiated omission of the steel production of the secondary
 producers in the report by the DG renders the report wholly inaccurate and
 leads to the flawed and erroneous findings recorded therein. 25. The premise on which the DG has proceeded is completely incorrect,
 misconceived and flawed at its very foundation. For the purposes of
 ascertaining a case under section 3(3) of the Act, the DG appears to have
 based the entire investigation on an underlying theme of collective dominance. The Act in force does not recognize the concept of collective dominance. It
 was submitted that the report is biased as it appears that the DG commenced,
 continued and concluded the entire investigation on the basis of a pre-
 conceived, unsubstantiated and illogical assumption of the existence of a cartel
 amongst the various reputed players in the market without any evidence
 whatsoever. This is apparent from the aspect that the DG has allegedly
 established the dominance of the opposite parties only on the basis of 4 out of
 the 30,000 steel products. It is imperative to state that the DG's assessment/
 determination of the products is untenable since, the said products, whether
 manufactured by primary or secondary producers are substitutable in terms of
 the target market. By completely excluding the secondary steel producers, the
 DG has itself committed a glaring error which goes to the root of matter. 26. The DG has conveniently and without any reason or logic opted for an
 allegedly comprehensive and methodical analysis to bring out the true picture
 and has restricted its investigation to only four companies despite the fact that
 the DG himself has noted the competitive pressures exerted by other
 manufactures. 27. Another glaring and flagrant defect in the report of the DG is the
 calculation of market shares of the various players in the steel industry. A
 mere perusal of the table set out at page 50 of the report demonstrates that
 whilst the DG has limited himself to four products, he has taken the market
 share of the opposite parties by reference to the total steel production in the
 country. 28. It was also pointed out that the products taken into consideration by the
 DG for the purposes of calculating the market shares are not manufactured by
 all the opposite parties under investigation. The DG has identified RINL as
 one of the opposite parties even though RINL does not produce HR coils and
 HR Plates net of the four products selected by the DG for the purposes of its
 analysis. 29. Giving reply on merits, it was submitted that the DG has admitted to
 the fact that there is no evidence to substantiate whether the parties had
 decided about the price increase in concert with each other. According to
 established and recognized competition jurisprudence, to prove a violation of
 competition law by way of a cartel, it must be shown that there has been
 'meeting of minds' towards achieving a common goal or outcome. Further, to
 prove a violation of section 3 under the Act, there must be an agreement,
 which includes an arrangement or an understanding, amongst the enterprises
 engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or provisions of services. Thus,
 in absence of any evidence of an arrangement or understanding between the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 10 of 46 parties under investigation, there can be no case of violation under section 3 of
 the Act. 30. On price parallelism, it was submitted that the DG has contended that
 the increase in prices of all the major steel producers has been simultaneous in
 almost all time zones. According to the DG, the correlation figures of absolute
 prices, price change and percentage price change have established prices
 parallelism in the industry. The DG has further concluded that price
 parallelism is a 'good measure' of collusive behavior by the steel producers. 31. Assailing the findings, it was submitted that steel is part of the
 commodity market where the product has to meet minimum quality standards
 and therefore, prices of various companies are bound to move towards a
 natural equilibrium. The market forces generally determine the prices and
 therefore, where demand increases, prices also see an upward trend. Thus, as
 demand increases or decreases, prices will also accordingly increase or
 decrease. 32. On the 'plus factors', it was pointed out the DG in its report states that
 price parallelism stands established as per the correlation figures of absolute
 prices, price changes and percentage price changes. Further, the report states
 that price parallelism is a good measure of collusive behavior by the steel
 manufacturers. Assuming without admitting that even if the DG has found
 characteristics of price parallelism, it does not by itself establish that the
 various steel manufacturers have been acting in concert or the parallelism is
 resultant of an agreement between them. It is widely recognized in
 competition law that evidence of price parallelism alone is not a sufficient
 proof of a cartel agreement. 'Facilitating' or 'plus' factors are needed in
 addition to parallel pricing evidence to conclude about any possibility of a
 cartel. 33. Lastly, it was argued that the DG's failure to accord reasons for the
 exclusion of Essar Steel Limited ('Essar') and JSPL from the analysis, in spite
 of Essar having the highest market shares in the product category of HR coil
 and HR plates and JSPL being one of the largest manufacturers of structurals,
 a product produced by all the companies under investigation. Also the choice
 of 4 companies even after stating that the top 6 companies control more than
 50% of the market is baffling. 34. A grievance was also made of the fact that although the parties under
 investigation have stated numerous factors that are taken into consideration in
 the determination of the pricing of steel, the DG has proceeded with the
 investigation on a pre-conceived notion. The material placed on the DG's
 records contains the Joint Plant Committee Report, Metal Bulletin etc. which
 could have been relied upon by the DG to investigate the factors attributed by
 the parties towards pricing of steel. On the other hand, even from the analysis
 conducted by the DG, he has cherry-picked the data to suit the flawed
 conclusions set out in the report and has blatantly ignored the findings of the
 analysis contrary to his own stand, without stating any reason for such
 practice. 35. The circumstantial evidence relied upon by the DG viz. pricing, supply
 or profit margin etc. is merely an industry practice and similar patterns are
 observed in many other commodity markets. Therefore, the analysis of the
 DG, in the absence of any evidence to prove an understanding amongst the
 parties to cartelize, cannot be relied upon to hold TSL liable for a violation of
 the Act. 36. It was submitted that the findings of the DG in the repot are based on
 incorrect assumptions and flawed reasoning. The report adopts an extremely
 narrow approach in its analysis and, if such report is accepted by the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 12 of 46 Commission, then it would lead to disastrous ramification for the steel
 industry as a whole as also for the economy of the country. 37. In the absence of any informal agreement/ understanding amongst the
 parties along with the fact that no evidence was brought forth by the DG to
 establish TSL was determining prices of steel products or limiting or
 controlling production, supply, market in concert with other parties, there is no
 case of violation of section 3(3)(a) and 3(3)(b) of the Act. SAIL 38. At the outset, it was submitted that when SAIL is working as one of
 the instrumentalities of the Government, it is hard to presume any indulgence
 in cartelization on its part. 39. On jurisdiction, it was argued that the Commission has no jurisdiction
 to investigate under the Act where the investigation was initiated under the
 MRTP Act. The Commission has presumed its jurisdiction and gone beyond
 the scope of section 66(6) of the Act. 40. Impugning the findings of the DG, it was contended that the DG has,
 without any cogent reasons, on his own, decided to extend the period of
 investigation to much beyond the period mentioned in the EEPC's letter or the
 news item, based on which the prima facie order for investigation was issued.
 Moreover, the DG, without any cogent reasons, restricted its investigation to
 only 4 products out of the 30,000 odd products manufactured in the steel
 industry as mentioned in the DG's report itself. 41. It was submitted that there is no uniform increase in prices of SAIL,
 TSL, RINL and JSW. According to the data provided in the DG report for the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 13 of 46 Flat and as well a Long Products, none of the four major producers seem to
 have increased the prices of steel at tandem. 42. It was further submitted that price parallelism cannot be considered as
 concerted effort as was held in the case of the Alkali Chemical Corporation of
 India Ltd, Calcutta and Bayer(I) Ltd. Bombay, RTPE 21 of 1981, order dated
 03.07.1984. In the above mentioned case, the respondents were engaged in
 manufacture and sale of rubber chemicals which commanded a dominant share
 in the market. The respondents did not deny price parallelism, but denied the
 allegation that it was due to concerted effort. 43. In absence of evidence, cartelization cannot be presumed and reliance
 was placed upon order of COMPAT in Delhi Development Authority v. Shree
 Cement Ltd. 2010 CTJ 17 (COMPAT) (MRTP), to contend that in the absence
 of any direct evidence of cartel and the circumstantial evidence without a
 shred of evidence in proof of any plus factor to bolster the circumstances of
 price parallelism, it is unsafe to conclude that there is a cartel. A mere offer of
 a lower price by itself does not manifest the requisite intent to gain monopoly
 and in the absence of a specific agreement by way of an action suggesting
 conspiracy, a cartel among the producers cannot readily be inferred. In the
 instant case, except the fact that identical prices were quoted, there is no other
 material to establish cartelization. Quoting of identical prices by different
 persons at the most is a suspicious circumstance but it does not per se establish
 cartelization, contended SAIL. 44. In view of the above rulings, the bare conclusion made by the DG with
 respect to price parallelism was denied in its entirety, also because the data
 provided in the report does not lead to the adverse conclusion drawn by the
 DG. The data which has been provided in the report speaks for itself, therefore
 it was contended that the prices of SAIL, TSL, RINL and JSW have not MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 14 of 46 increased in tandem and, hence, there is not even a distant possibility of price
 parallelism. 45. Furthermore, it was asserted that the DG has not looked into factors of
 production to reach the conclusion on price fixing. There are number of factor
 which affect the cost, some of them are: duties and taxes, international price
 movement, landed price of imports, freight charges, cost of input material,
 rising input cost, cost of iron ore, coking coal, coke, rise in cost of
 transportation, impediments to find land to increase capacity, market-
 concentration of raw material supply and market situation. 46. It was argued that apart from the international market and pricing there
 are various other factors which have led to increase in prices of steel such as
 cost of raw materials which also include salaries and wages. It was averred
 that the report of the DG under the section concerning the reply submitted by
 SAIL noted that there was a steep increase in cost of labour during 2007-08,
 which was to the tune of 56% over 2006-07. Prices are also influenced by the
 demand and supply factors and the prices can vary depending upon size,
 quality, nature of contracts, the market conditions and locations. 47. The DG report has clearly stated that in five years (2002-03 to 2006- 07) imports were growing at much faster rate than exports. While imports
 grew by CAGR of 24.49%, exports grew just by a CAGR of 2.16%. Therefore
 in a situation where the market prices are determined by the prevailing market
 conditions and most likely by the fact that imports are free, it is incorrect to
 conclude that the prices were increased or decreased by the four producers in
 consonance with each other according to their whims and fancies or by
 agreement. The DG has not placed on record any detail from which an
 inference can be drawn that the increase in the prices of steel is not
 commensurate with the escalation in the cost of raw materials and
 international pricing. 48. Further, it was vehemently contended that the DG has held
 cartelization amongst the four steel companies, against the market research
 study report commissioned by the Commission in January 2009 on 'Public
 Enterprise and Government Policy Impact on Competition- Indian Steel
 Industries' which clearly states as follows: 49. It was also submitted that the DG report did not refer to the
 geographical extent of the market in order to come to the conclusion for
 presumption of cartel in case of these companies, which is mandatory under section 19(5) of Act. In case of Steel Industry, whole globe can be taken as
 geographical extent of the market. 50. It was further submitted that there is nothing on record to establish that
 there is a presence of a formal or informal agreement between the four steel
 manufactures viz. SAIL, TSL, RINL and JSW for the purpose of controlling
 the prices of steel or for creating a monopoly. In the absence of any evidence,
 it is not correct to infer existence of a formal or an informal agreement. 51. Reliance was also placed upon the decision in the case of All India
 Distillers Association, New Delhi v. Haldyn Glass Gujarat Ltd. Baroda &
 Ors., UTPE Case No. 30(146)/ 2008 where the respondents were accused to
 have entered into an agreement to fix the prices of glass bottles, it was held
 that definitely something more than bare allegation is needed to show
 concerted action on the part of the respondents to fix prices of glass bottles.
 Similar conclusion was drawn in the case of The Alkali and Chemical
 Corporation of India Ltd. Calcutta and Bayer (I) Ltd., Bombay, RTPE 20 of
 1981, order dated 03.07.1984 where it was held that price parallelism or even
 price leadership is a common feature of an oligopolistic market and cannot be
 considered as concerted effort. 52. Reference was also made to the decision in the case of Hindustan
 Lever Ltd. and TATA Oils Mills Co. Ltd., RTPE 4 of 1978 order dated
 22.07.1982 wherein twin requirements for a trade practice to be treated a
 concerted one were pointed out. First, the trade practice must either influence
 the market behavior of undertakings concerned and second, that there should
 be a positive contact between the parties either by meeting or decision or in
 any manner. It was observed that in an oligopolistic industry, a few units will
 be dominating the industry and each would be having an eye on the other to
 see what its behavior will be. They will be interdependent without any overt
 acting together. 53. Based on above, it was sought to be canvassed that in order to prove
 existence of a formal or an informal agreement, it is important to establish that
 the manufacturing units have contacted each other directly or indirectly.
 Hence, the assertion made by the DG in its report that the prices of the main
 products have moved in the similar direction for all the companies at the same
 time which indicate presence of an informal agreement is completely MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 17 of 46 incorrect. It was further submitted that as far as Flat Products are concerned,
 more than 50% is sold through MoU basis only. 54. Based on the above, it was summed up that it is established that the
 prices of steel have moved up or down due to market forces and not due to the
 concerted effort of the four companies in order to form a cartel or monopoly in
 the market. Increase or decrease in the prices of the four companies have not
 taken place at tandem and hence there is not a slightest possibility of parity of
 prices or price parallelism. RINL 55. In the beginning, it was pointed out that the answering party is a
 Navratna Public Sector Undertaking directly under the control of Ministry of
 Steel, Government of India and has been the recipient of many awards and
 recognition during its 28 years journey so far. 56. It was also submitted that RINL while performing its task and
 functions as a commercial and manufacturing organization, has also taken its
 role as a responsible corporate citizen in right earnest. Long before the concept
 of CSR came into being, RINL has been in the forefront of social upliftment.
 Since 1993 it has emphasized upon peripheral development projects. RINL
 was one of the first companies which has formulated CSR policy for the
 organization and became a member of UNO Global Compact. 57. Assailing the findings of the DG, RINL denied all the findings made in
 the report submitted by the DG. It was pointed out that the investigation report
 put before the Commission has the following conclusions qua RINL: 58. Giving reply/ objections to the aforesaid conclusions, RINL submitted
 that it does not produce HR coils, HR Plates and holds only 12% of the market
 share in the product group of bars and rods and the DG has grossly erred in
 ignoring the presence of various important players viz. JSPL, Kamadhenu,
 Amba, Shyam Steel, Rathi Udyog etc. while considering the issue of price
 cartelization and limited the investigation to only four main producers. RINL
 further submitted that the long products steel market in India today is such that
 no single producer can ever expect to be a dominant player in the market.
 Almost 75% of steel is produced by hundreds of secondary producers in
 secondary sector while the so called main producers have a dwindling share of
 25% put together. Therefore, it is impossible for a few producers including
 RINL to dominate and control the market in any manner including pricing. 59. It was further submitted that the DG has arrived at wholly erroneous
 conclusion that the pattern in pricing of some products was found to be MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 19 of 46 moving in tandem with each other for all the producers. In an open economy,
 price cartel is practically not possible as the price is purely market driven.
 There are several market forces acting on the pricing mechanism as a result of
 which the market prices are corrected on a continuous basis. In the present
 economy, steel is completely de-controlled and customers have at their
 disposal various alternative sources and can select the best option which suits
 them most. There is no ban on import of steel and approximately more than 6
 million tonnes of finished steel is imported in the country every year through
 major ports like Mumbai, Kandla, Chennai, Kolkatta, Vishakapatnam and
 Kochi Ports. 60. In case the domestic prices become even slightly higher as compared
 to international prices, imports start taking place immediately to take
 advantage of this situation. Customers are free to choose their source and a
 single player cannot dominate the market as market dynamics play a major
 role in this aspect. Long Products steel market is more of a buyers' market
 than a sellers' market. 61. The conclusion in the investigation report that there was periodic
 suppression of supply of RINL to prop up demand and prices was vehemently
 denied. It was submitted that RINL always produced more than 100% of its
 installed capacity of 3 million tonnes liquid steel during the past several years
 except during the year of global melt down and has been operating at a level
 of around 115 to 120% of the rated capacity. 62. It was further submitted that RINL's installed capacity is 3 million
 tonnes of liquid steel per annum and the saleable steel capacity is 2.656
 million tonnes per annum. During the period 2009-10, the production of
 saleable steel was 2.96 million tonnes against the saleable steel production of
 2.56 million tonnes during 2008-09, registering a growth of 15% over the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 20 of 46 period 2008-09. Further, the production of saleable steel during 2009-10 year
 was 111% of the installed capacity for finished steel. 63. From the above, it was sought to be argued that RINL has registered
 increased production which is wholly contrary to the findings that it is
 restricting production. Furthermore, it was submitted that after examining the
 production and sales figures during the investigation, the DG has arrived at
 wholly erroneous conclusions. In case of TMT Bars, the production and sales
 figures of only one mill was considered whereas both WRM and LMMM
 produce TMT Bars in different size ranges. It was also submitted that the
 stocks were also available for sale at different stockyards at various locations
 as well as at plants during the period under investigation which shows that the
 observation/ conclusion in the investigation is not correct. 64. RINL submitted that the conclusion in investigation report that prices
 of RINL along with other producers moved in similar direction indicating
 informal agreement among all main producers including RINL, is not true and
 is vehemently and completely denied as far as RINL's own prices are
 concerned. It was reiterated that the prices are always market driven and
 reviewed and corrected on a regular basis depending upon the market
 situation. The price correction process as practised by RINL is independent of
 other producers and although sometimes the quantum of correction in prices
 may look similar to other producers; this cannot and ought not to be
 understood as RINL's collaboration or collusion with other producers for
 controlling the market prices. 65. RINL also submitted that price determination is a dynamic process and
 various factors are considered in fixing prices. Data/ records as desired by the
 DG were duly submitted during investigation. Therefore, the conclusion in the
 investigation report that none of the companies could provide the possible MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 21 of 46 explanation for price determination is not correct as far as RINL is concerned
 and is totally denied. 66. It was further submitted that RINL had during the investigation
 informed the DG that there is no direct link between the cost of production and
 the prices fixed for various items. It was submitted that the same is clearly
 established from the Net Sales Realization and cost data analysis as both are
 not always moving in tandem. 67. Lastly, it was submitted that the observation in the investigation report
 that steel production market was an oligopolistic market is not correct more so
 in the Long Products market, in which RINL operates, since there are
 numerous steel manufacturing companies in India in the secondary sector and
 the contribution and market share of these companies is fairly significant and
 cannot be ignored. 68. After giving para wise reply to the report of the DG, it was prayed by
 the answering party that the case as sought to be set-up by the DG is wholly
 without any basis or justification, proceeds on assumptions, surmises,
 conjectures and apprehensions, contrary to the materials/ data/ information
 furnished, devoid of any merit and deserves to be rejected. JSW 69. JSW submitted its chapter wise replies/objections to the investigation
 report. All the allegations, and adverse findings /analyses as contained in the
 investigation report against it, were denied. 70. It was pointed out that the original complaint i.e. RTPE 09 of 2008 was
 instituted by the erstwhile MRTP Commission in the month of March 2008
 and the investigation of the same could not be completed by the Office of the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 22 of 46 DG I&R, investigating wing of the MRTP Commission, till September 2009,
 the date when the MRTP Act was repealed. In the process, a period of
 valuable 18 months was wasted by the Office of the DG I&R in an allegation
 of a cartel in respect of an industry segment which besides being one of the
 most dynamic segments of Indian industry has also been growing in India's
 post-economic liberalization, bringing out an undisputed pro-competitive
 market behaviour. 71. It was averred that the genesis of the investigation against the steel
 industry and more particularly against JSW commenced on the basis of a
 newspaper report published on March 11, 2008 in the Financial Express and
 subsequently a formal complaint dated March 18, 2008 filed by EEPC. The
 entire investigation report prepared by the Office of the DG, set up under the
 Act, does not indicate as to whether or not depositions of the reporter of the
 Financial Express and/or of the complainant, have been recorded during the
 course of the investigation which would have ascertained the veracity of the
 complaint, since the complaint was received under the repealed MRTP Act
 and investigation was conducted under the new Act. Having said that, the
 entire investigation report appears to be based on the DG's own perception/
 assessment of the matter and on the basis of the depositions made by the steel
 companies allegedly involved in the cartelization and without corroboration of
 the allegations made by the newspaper reporter and/or EEPC. 72. It was also submitted that as per the complaint of EEPC, the period of
 alleged cartel operated from April 2007 to February 2008 when the average
 prices of steel increased by 10%. EEPC also alleged that increase in the steel
 prices in India during the period was much higher in comparison to the steel
 prices in the world and made an adverse impact on small and medium
 engineering segments of Indian industry. However, the DG during preliminary
 investigation found varied trend in the prices of steel during later period i.e.
 2008-09 and 2009-10. As such, the DG decided to extend the scope of the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 23 of 46 investigation to a period of 3 years instead of the original period of allegation
 and decided to investigate from April 2007 to March 2010. It was reiterated
 that post-repeal of the MRTP Act and in the absence of the depositions of the
 newspaper reporter and/or EEPC, the scope and the period of allegation i.e.
 from April 2007 to February 2008 cannot be enlarged, distinguished or altered
 by the DG and outcomes thereof be included in the investigation report to the
 detriment of the answering party. 73. It was further submitted that the complaint was aimed against 34 steel
 companies and the investigation report found only four amongst 34 primarily
 responsible for cartelization in steel industry of India. This prima facie appears
 to be misconceived and misleading and liable to rejected on the maxim of bias,
 a fundamental principle of natural justice. 74. It was pointed out that the statutory mandate provided under sub-
 section (6) of section 66 of the Act empowers the Commission to conduct and/
 or order for conduct of investigation or proceedings post-transfer of the case in
 such a manner as the Commission deems fit. Looking at the intent of the
 legislature, the scope of investigation by the DG is limited. On perusal of the
 copy of the prima facie opinion dated June 18, 2010 of the Commission
 formed under section 26(1) of the Act, it was noticed that the Commission did
 not pass an order directing the DG to enlarge the scope of the original
 complaint and further directed it to submit the investigation report within 60
 days from June 18, 2010. However, the DG submitted the investigation report
 on May 31, 2011 enlarging the scope of the original complaint in complete
 disregard to the relevant provisions (relating to time within which the
 investigation report was to be submitted) of the Competition Commission of
 India (General) Regulations, 2009 as well as the directives of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India dated September 09, 2010, given to the Commission
 to complete investigation in a time-bound manner. From the foregoing, it was
 argued that the DG acted in a manner devoid of procedure to conduct an MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 24 of 46 investigation and the entire investigation report appears to be colourable
 exercise of the statutory powers besides contempt of the order of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India and as such the same is liable to be rejected. 75. It was submitted that the DG has highlighted the provisions of the Act
 relatable to anti-competitive agreements including 'cartel' read with the
 definition of the 'agreement' and while doing so he has reaffirmed and
 reiterated that the relevant period of allegation is from April 2007 to February
 2008. JSW denied and disputed that its steel prices of Hot Rolled Coils
 increased by 20% as alleged by EEPC during this period. On the contrary, the
 increase of Hot Rolled Coils prices of JSW was in fact to the tune of 8% only
 when world Hot Rolled Coils prices for export increased by approximately
 25% for the same period. 76. It was further contended that the provisions of the Act relatable to
 breach of section 3 do not operate with retrospective effect. The Act came into
 effect on May 20, 2009 and the period of allegation, as per foregoing, is
 between April 2007 and February 2008 and the prima facie order of the
 Commission under section 26(1) passed on June 18, 2010 too did not direct
 the DG to examine the allegation beyond the period i.e. February 2008,
 collectively restrict the DG not to venture out or change the scope of the
 allegation beyond what had been made by the newspaper report and/ or by the
 complainant, EEPC in March 2008. 77. The entire process of investigation continued from April 2007 to
 March 2010 against the answering party at a time when the market dynamics
 have changed drastically resulting in a futile exercise causing wastage of time
 and energies to all involved in responding to this process. 78. It was pointed out that the DG while concluding its investigation report
 did rely upon the Commission's internal market study report and it was sought MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 25 of 46 to be suggested that the market study report and the DG's investigation report
 mismatched. 79. On merits, it was stated that JSW continued to enhance its crude
 capacities from 0.8 MnT in 2001 to 11 MnT as of today growing at 30%
 CAGR indicating in unambiguous terms its intent to enhance economic
 efficiencies in steel manufacturing in the post-economic liberalized scenario of
 India especially at a time when it does not have any raw material security
 whereas its competitors have such security in abundance. This is sought to be
 suggestive of the fact that JSW cannot and shall not have any reason to form a
 cartel with competitors when benefits of the same shall not be made by it. 80. Referring to the market study report of the Commission relating to
 steel sector, it was pointed out that the same categorically indicated the growth
 phenomena of the steel industry and more particularly the said report did not
 find presence of anti-competitive behaviour amongst steel producers in India.
 It was submitted that the said report of the Commission, based on a detailed
 market study by an independent agency, goes on to strengthen the argument of
 JSW that no anti-competitive practice exists in the steel sector. 81. It was highlighted that in chapter 8, the DG specifically concluded that
 there was no evidence to find whether these 4 companies had decided about
 the price increase in concert with each other and as such it was sought to be
 suggested that there was prima facie no evidence of agreement between them. 82. It was further submitted that an 'agreement' with competitors is a
 condition precedent to establish an allegation of cartel. Once an 'agreement' is
 found amongst players in the same business thereafter the investigation shall
 follow to ascertain causation of appreciable adverse effect on competition in
 India in terms of the statutory factors laid down under section 19 (3) of the
 Act. It was submitted that unless both these parameters are proved MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 26 of 46 unambiguously, the allegation of cartel fails. In the present matter, it was
 submitted that both these parameters have failed miserably. Since the DG
 remained inconclusive about existence of an agreement amongst the opposite
 parties, it relied upon the economic principles of price parallelism and
 concluded that the allegations of complainant have been proved. The entire
 exercise of the DG in this behalf appears to have been founded on his own
 perception about steel industry rather than on facts and empirical evidences
 adduced during the course of investigation and depositions made by the
 answering party. 83. Elaborating further, it was argued that in an allegation of cartel, the
 condition precedent to pin down a party shall have to be the existence of
 'agreement including an action in concert'. In the absence of existence of an
 agreement among the steel manufacturers, the other issues as highlighted by
 the DG in the investigation report seem to be an academic exercise not
 relatable to the facts in issue. The rest of the findings based on 'price
 parallelism', appears an effort to somehow pin down JSW when no action in
 concert is established. 84. It was stated that the raw material costs especially in respect of JSW's
 manufacturing processes have steeply increased. Further, it was pointed out
 that the DG in the report has concluded that steel production is an oligopolistic
 market with 4-5 big producers controlling more than 40% of the market in
 terms of production. But the DG did not really appear serious enough to
 analyze the role of remaining 60% of the market in terms of production.
 Having failed to do so and not following a uniform pattern for HR coils, HR
 plates, Wire Rods and TMT bars the numerical figure of 40% seems
 misplaced and could not lead to price parallelism when the ultimate prices of
 the enterprises vary drastically. 85. It was argued that owing to the oligopoly in the steel market, the DG
 concluded that there is a case for collusive price leadership. It was submitted
 that an oligopolistic market cannot per se be concluded to be a cartelized
 market. The DG failed to understand that 'oligopoly' is a market structure and
 is an indispensable precursor to the 'perfectly competitive market'. It is a well-
 accepted fact in economic theory and practice that oligopolistic will factor into
 their pricing decisions the probable decisions of their competitors and as a
 result similarity in pricing will be observed. The DG's analysis as to price
 parallelism and price leadership was strongly denied and disputed on grounds
 of legal as well as economic theory and practice. 86. It was reiterated that in a free market enhancement of economic
 efficiencies by way of augmentation of production capacities is contrary to the
 principles of cartel. In cartel, members more often than not do not engage in
 efficiency enhancement and continue to make the industry suffer on account
 of stagnation in production, poor quality of product by a handful of few
 players and reaping astronomically high profits not related to input cost. In the
 instant investigation, nothing relating to the foregoing has been proved or even
 attempted to be proved. The factual analysis of the steel sector in India
 indicated efficiency gains, pro-competition trends and absence of barriers to
 entry in the segment. It was also submitted that setting up of integrated steel
 plants, though gained momentum post-1991 yet the same happened as part of
 huge capital investment on the part of the private enterprises. 87. In view of foregoing, the allegations against the answering party were
 stated to fail on the following grounds: Further Consideration of the DG report by the Commission 88. The Commission considered the investigation report of the DG, replies
 of the parties, their oral submissions and all other material available on record
 and vide its order dated 29.02.2012 arrived at a conclusion that in view of the
 flaws in the methodology adopted in investigating the case and inconsistencies
 in the analysis carried out therein, the case cannot be decided at this stage for
 reaching a finding about the existence of cartel(s) or otherwise. 89. After noting the methodology adopted by DG and the reasons given
 therein, the Commission observed that there were inconsistencies in the
 methodology adopted in the investigation and analysis of the case, as in the
 report submitted by the DG, often the data provided did not support the
 conclusions drawn therefrom. 90. Further, the Commission observed that the methodology adopted by
 the DG was flawed because the focus of the investigation was not based on the
 prevalent market structure of the steel industry, and the criterion adopted for
 sample selection was not very robust. It was further observed that the selection
 of products for the investigation, which was done on a random basis by only
 considering those products that constituted the major portion of steel
 production, ought to have been done based on the factors that may facilitate
 cartel behaviour and collusion among the firms, such as small number of firms
 in the market in respect of a particular product, high-entry barriers, excess
 demand, lack of availability of substitutes, countervailing buying power etc. in
 a particular product segment. 91. The Commission also observed that finished steel products were
 generally distinguished as flat steel products or long steel products. While flat
 steel products are primarily characterized by presence of large integrated steel
 producers, long steel products are characterized by presence of large number
 of small and regional steel producers. In case of flat steel products where the
 number of players in the market is limited, entry barriers may be high and with
 increase in demand, the possibility of cartelization is required to be
 investigated, keeping in view the competition from imports and presence of
 the large integrated players which constitute major proportion of the market.
 As regards the long products, the market is highly fragmented, and the
 possibility of cartelization is required to be investigated keeping in view
 regional nature of market, capacity utilization, price differences between
 domestic and landed price etc. Thus, combining flat and long products for
 purpose of the said investigation does not seem to be appropriate, noted the
 Commission in its order. 92. Furthermore, it was also opined by the Commission that further
 categorizations of steel products also have to be appropriately taken into
 account for the purposes of investigation. 93. It was observed that considering the fact that in India, the steel industry
 comprises main/ major domestic producers having presence across almost all
 varieties of finished steel products such as SAIL, TSL, RINL, Essar Steel,
 JSW, JSPL, and Ispat Industries and is also characterized by presence of
 various leading global steel producers engaged in sale of variety of iron and
 steel products in India through imports in India, the investigation has to
 appropriately take into account the various companies engaged in sale of steel
 products in India, the large number of other domestic producers engaged in
 production of various semi-finished and finished steel products spread across
 the country serving markets which may be regional in nature, may also be
 need to be looked at in this context, using an appropriate statistical sample and
 survey. 94. In view of the above, the DG was directed to fully investigate,
 including in regard to the following issues: 95. Lastly, it was ordered that for the purpose of investigation, specific
 companies and products need to be identified through a more robust analysis
 by keeping in mind that steel industry has been largely classified into three
 major categories based on form/ shape/ size, composition and end use. An
 informed analysis of the market structure and deep understanding of the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 32 of 46 differentiated features of different products have to be important inputs in
 designing the investigation methodology itself. Conclusions drawn need to be
 consistent with the data analysed and relied upon. 96. Resultantly, the DG was directed to further investigate the matter
 accordingly. 97. The DG, after receiving the directions from the Commission, further
 investigated the matter and submitted a supplementary investigation report
 dated 26.09.2013 to the Commission. Supplementary Investigation by the DG 98. The DG undertook further investigations on the issues as highlighted in
 the order of the Commission dated 29.02.2012, as noted supra. 99. The DG, after highlighting an overview of steel production process and
 different products, identified the product and parties for investigation. In this
 regard, the DG noted that during the course of investigation no specific
 allegation/ information of cartelization relating to long steel product segment
 was received either from the informant or from the other stakeholders of the
 industry. Further, in light of the market conditions (large number of players),
 the DG did not proceed further to incorporate the long steel products segment
 in the investigation. It was further noted by the DG that in the flat steel
 segment, HR coil is the most concentrated segment within the steel industry.
 The share of top 5 firms is about 90% of the total production. Thus, the nature
 of market of HR coil was found to be oligopolistic making the possibility of
 collusion easy among the players. Further, a gap of about 15-20% between the
 domestic supply and consumption was noted making the consumers dependent
 on the sellers. In view of the above, HR coil was taken up as the product for
 the purposes of investigation of alleged cartel in the supplementary report. 100. To identify the players for the purposes of investigation, the DG
 examined the data relating to production of HR coil by domestic producers
 and percentage of their respective market share in the production. Market
 share of the players was also examined on the basis of sales. Based upon these
 factors, the DG concluded that 5 major players produce about 90% of the total
 domestic production and jointly have about 75% of share in total domestic
 sales in the HR coil steel segment. Accordingly, for the purpose of
 investigation, 5 major players [i.e. SAIL, TSL, JSW, M/s Ispat Industries
 (ISPAT) and M/s Essar Steel (Essar)] were identified as the main domestic
 players in the segment of HR coil. 101. The focus of analysis of the various relevant issues in the report was
 restricted to these 5 players only. The investigation, however, did not find any
 direct evidence or information of any instance of meeting of the HR coil
 producers to indicate collusive price fixing. No information whatsoever on the
 modus operandi of the alleged cartel or any detail of the tacit understanding
 came to the notice of the DG during the course of investigation. 102. Thus, on the basis of the analysis of information and evidences
 gathered during the course of supplementary investigation, the DG did not find
 evidence indicative of anti-competitive conduct by the steel producers in the
 segment of HR coil, during the period of investigation i.e. 2007-08 to 2009-10
 which can be held in contravention of the provisions of section 3(3) of the Act. Consideration of the Supplementary Investigation report of the DG by the
 Commission 103. The Commission in its ordinary meetings considered the
 supplementary investigation report submitted by the DG and decided to pass
 appropriate order in due course. Analysis 104. On a careful perusal of the informations, the reports of the DG and the
 replies/ objections/ submissions filed by the parties and other materials
 available on record, the following issues arise for consideration and
 determination in the matter: 105. It has been contended by some of the opposite parties that since the
 investigation was transferred under the provisions of section 66(6) of the Act,
 the substantive law of the MRTP Act shall govern the present proceedings. 106. The Commission notes that in the present matter the DG I&R, MRTP
 Commission undertook the preliminary investigation which was still pending
 when the MRTP Act was repealed vide ordinance dated 14.10.2009. As the
 investigation had not culminated into a 'case' the matter stood transferred to
 the Commission from the DG I&R, MRTPC by virtue of the provisions of section 66(6) of the Act. Even a plain reading of section 66(6) of the Act
 clearly demonstrates that on receiving the matters where investigation was
 pending, the Commission may order for conduct of the investigation in the
 manner as it deems fit. If the Commission were to order investigation in such
 matters, the only section of the Act which empowers the Commission to do so
 is section 26 by treating the complaint as information under the Act. Further,
 on receiving the matter, the order for investigation under section 26(1) can be
 passed only if in the view of the Commission there existed a prima facie case
 of violation of the provisions of the Act. As the complaint filed before the DG MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 35 of 46 I&R, MRTPC was still at the stage of preliminary investigation no right,
 liability, privilege or obligation can be said to have been accrued to any party
 and, therefore, the provisions of section 66(1A) or 66(10), are not applicable
 in the present situation. Furthermore, the Commission has not been conferred
 any power to adjudicate any matter invoking the provisions of repealed
 MRTP, Act. This premise becomes clear when the provisions of section 66(6) are contrasted with the provisions of section 66(3) of the Act. Whereas the
 Competition Appellate Tribunal has been specifically conferred power to
 adjudicate cases pertaining to monopolistic and restrictive trade practices
 pending before MRTP Commission in accordance with the provisions of
 repealed MRTP Act under section 66(3) of the Act, no such power has been
 given to the Commission under section 66(6) of the Act. In the backdrop of
 the provisions of the Act as analysed above, the Commission finds that there is
 no illegality in entertaining and examining the present case under the Competition Act, 2002 the investigation was pending before the DG I&R,
 MRTP Commission before the MRTP Act was repealed. 107. Further, even in cases where the alleged anti-competitive conduct was
 started before coming into force of section 3 and 4, the Commission has the
 jurisdiction to look into such conduct if it continues even after the enforcement
 of relevant provisions of the Act. This position has been settled by the Hon'ble
 High Court of Bombay in W.P. No. 1785 of 2010, Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. v.
 Competition Commission of India decided on 31.03.2010. In the said case, it
 has been held by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court that though the Act is not
 retrospective, it would cover all agreements covered by the Act though entered
 into prior to the commencement of the Act but sought to be acted upon now
 i.e. if the effect of the agreement continues even after 20.5.2009. Issue No.1 is
 decided accordingly. 108. In view of the above, the Commission proceeds to examine as to
 whether the opposite parties have contravened the provisions of section 3 of
 the Act. 109. At the outset, it may be noted that though the DG found the steel
 production market oligopolistic and hence susceptible to concerted price
 fixation, it may be observed that existence of such conducive scenario for
 cartelization in itself is not enough to reach a finding of contravention against
 the parties. The same has to be established with the help of cogent evidence.
 Though, such evidence may be of circumstantial nature and the anti-
 competitive conduct may be inferred from the circumstances brought on
 record. 110. In terms of the provisions contained in section 3(1) of the Act, no
 enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons can
 enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage,
 acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, which causes or is
 likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India. Section 3(2) of the Act declares that any agreement entered into in
 contravention of the provisions contained in sub-section (1) shall be void.
 Further, by virtue of the presumption contained in sub-section (3), any
 agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of enterprises or
 persons or associations of persons or between any person and enterprise or
 practice carried on, or decision taken by, any association of enterprises or
 association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical or similar trade
 of goods or provision of services, which-(a) directly or indirectly determines
 purchase or sale prices; (b) limits or controls production, supply, markets,
 technical development, investment or provision of services; (c) shares the
 market or source of production or provision of services by way of allocation of
 geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or number of
 customers in the market or any other similar way; (d) directly or indirectly MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 37 of 46 results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall be presumed to have an
 appreciable adverse effect on competition. 111. To invoke the provisions of section 3 of the Act, the existence of an
 'agreement' is sine qua non. The term 'agreement' has been defined in section
 2(b) of the Act as including any arrangement or understanding or action in
 concert whether or not formal or in writing or is intended to be enforceable by
 legal proceedings. The understanding may be tacit, and the definition covers
 situations where the parties act on the basis of a nod or a wink. There is rarely
 direct evidence of action in concert and the Commission has to determine
 whether those involved in any dealings have some form of understanding and
 are acting in co-ordination with each other. In the light of the definition of the
 term 'agreement', as noted supra, the Commission has to find sufficiency of
 evidence on the basis of benchmark of 'preponderance of probabilities'. 112. Since the prohibition on participating in anti-competitive agreements
 and the penalties which offenders may incur are well known, it is normal for
 the activities which those practices and those agreements entail to take place in
 a clandestine fashion, for meetings to be held in secret and for the associated
 documentation to be reduced to a minimum. Considering the remote
 possibility of getting direct evidence in the case of a cartel in many cases, the
 existence of an anti-competitive practice or agreement can also be inferred
 from the conduct of the colluding parties which may include a number of
 coincidences and indicia which, taken together, may, in the absence of any
 other plausible explanation, constitute evidence of the existence of an
 agreement. Thus, in case of agreements as listed in section 3(3) of the Act,
 once it is established that such an agreement exists, it will be presumed that
 the agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition; the onus to
 rebut this presumption would lie upon the opposite party. 113. In the aforesaid backdrop, the findings of the DG may be examined. 114. As noted above, the DG took up HR coil as the product for the
 purposes of investigation of alleged cartel in the supplementary report. For the
 purpose of investigation, five major players (i.e. SAIL, TSL, JSW, ISPAT and
 Essar) were identified as the main domestic players in the segment of HR coil.
 The focus of analysis of the various relevant issues in the report was restricted
 to these five players only. The period of investigation was confined to 2007-08
 to 2009-10. 115. The following issues were identified by the DG for the purposes of
 investigation: 116. To begin with, the DG examined the sales pattern in the domestic
 market by recording the statements of producers and consumers of HR coil.
 On the basis of the information so gathered, it appears that about 90% of the
 quantity of HR coil is supplied by the steel producers on long term contract
 basis and the prices are determined through negotiations. The prices are,
 however, subject to monthly or quarterly revisions by the steel producers. As
 the maximum sales are done through long term contracts, the prices remain
 stable for at least a period of one month. Further, the price changes were found
 to be effected based on factors like landed import prices, cost of production,
 position of demand etc. 117. The consumers of HR coil were issued questionnaires by the DG to
 verify the market position reported by the producers. Letters were issued to the
 top five consumers of each producer to obtain feedback on various issues
 relating to the case. From the responses received, the following aspects
 relating to the prices in the market were recorded by the DG: 118. The DG also examined pattern of pricing and declaration of prices by
 the players. From the details of price declarations, no fixed pattern was found
 or is otherwise discernible in the date or timing of announcement of change in
 the prices by the parties. In this connection, it may be noted that the largest
 domestic player SAIL was found to be announcing price changes quarterly,
 whereas other players declared their prices every month. As the actual
 transaction prices are decided by the customers after negotiations, the declared
 prices act as a benchmark for determination in the prices. 119. The material available on record does not disclose any fixed pattern or
 price leadership of any player in declaring prices at all India level or at the
 regional levels. Moreover, as noted above, SAIL declares its price on quarterly
 basis, whereas other players announce on monthly basis and hence, the
 practice of price leadership is ruled out. No fixed pattern of price
 communications was noticed. 120. Analyses of absolute monthly prices of HR coil and monthly price
 changes thereof were conducted by the DG. Based on this, it was concluded
 by the DG that the prices of top five players were moving in tandem and there
 existed price parallelism among the HR coil producers during the investigation
 period (2007 to 2010). The DG, therefore, confronted the producers on the
 issue of price parity. The producers filed their detailed replies before the DG
 claiming that the price changes are determined by each company on the basis
 of market conditions and landed import price as well as cost of production. In
 sum, the steel producers attributed the landed import prices, cost of production
 and the market demand and supply position as the reason for price parallelism. 121. To ascertain the veracity of the claims made by the parties, the DG
 conducted an analysis of landed price of import with the domestic prices.
 Based on the analysis, it was found by the DG that the comparison of the
 prices of domestic producers with the landed import price showed a positive
 correlation. However, in absence of any evidence, it could not be concluded
 that the domestic producers have adopted a concerted practice of determining
 their prices at some fixed amount higher than the landed import prices. The
 analysis of prices reflected that the import prices play a vital role but is not the
 only factor while determining the transaction prices. 122. Further, as the steel producers also stated the cost of production as one
 of the important factors for price changes, the analysis of data relating to cost
 of production of each company was compared with the prices by the DG. It
 was noted by the DG that analysis of profit margin of the parties revealed a
 lack of price under cutting among the domestic producers. This was also found
 to confirm the fact that the parties are normally competing with the landed
 import prices only and there is absence of active competition among them. 123. As has been seen above, the DG found price parallelism amongst the
 producers under investigation during the relevant period. But without
 additional evidence i.e. 'plus factors', proof of conscious parallel behavior,
 such parallel behavior, is not enough to establish a violation. The additional
 evidence or plus factors need not take the form of direct evidence of an
 explicitly illegal agreement. Parallel pricing or other matching behaviour does
 not in itself establish the existence of a combination or conspiracy, nor should
 it, if it is equally consistent with the lawful behaviour of firms acting
 separately and independently of one another. Additional evidence is instead
 necessary to further bolster the inference of collusion. A wide range of
 circumstantial evidence can be used to establish the needed plus factors. Plus
 factors are economic actions and outcomes, above and beyond parallel
 conduct by oligopolistic firms,that are largely inconsistent with unilateral MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 43 of 46 conduct but largely consistent with coordinated action. Possible plus factors
 are typically enumerated without any attempt to distinguish them in terms of a
 meaningful economic categorization or in terms of their probative strength for
 inferring collusion. Generally it is observed that in an oligopolistic industry,
 the firms recognize their mutual interdependence, acknowledge that they are
 players in a repeated game, and act according to it. In antitrust decisions, mere
 conscious parallelism does not suffice for determination of firms engaged in
 concerted action because such pricing can emerge from firms acting non-
 collusively where they understand their role as players. In such cases, it is
 required that economic circumstantial evidence go beyond the parallel
 movement in price to reach a finding that the firms have crossed that line
 thereby violating the provisions of the Act. 124. In the present case, the DG after finding price parallelism amongst the
 parties under investigation proceeded to analyze the rationale advance by the
 firms for such behavior. The steel producers attributed the landed import
 prices, cost of production and the market demand and supply position as the
 reason for price parallelism. As noted above, the DG found a positive
 correlation between the domestic prices and landed import prices. The analysis
 of data revealed that the reason for price parallelism was in the main tendency
 of the domestic producers to base their price movement as per the landed
 import prices. The behavior of the firms in respect of price changes showed
 that they did not under cut the prices of each other when the international
 prices were higher even when there was scope for reduction due to gap
 between the cost and prevailing prices. Even during the period when
 international prices crashed and most of the HR coil producers incurred losses,
 their prices were found to be mainly guided by landed import prices. 125. Furthermore, the DG did not find, on the basis of analysis of data
 relating to production and sales, any concerted effort on the part of the MRTP Case: RTPE No. 09 of 2008 Page 44 of 46 producers under investigation to create pressure in the market to increase the
 prices or maximize profits. 126. The DG also obtained the information from the consumers of HR coil.
 From the replies furnished by the consumers, it appears that the prices are
 determined after negotiation with the suppliers. The consumers did not
 confirm that they have observed any cartel like conduct among the players. No
 specific activity or evidence to show the existence of alleged cartel was
 furnished by the consumers to the DG. No evidence was found which was
 suggestive of geographical allocations of territories or the customers by the
 steel producers. No active trade association of HR coil producers was found to
 be operative during the investigation period. 127. From the analysis of the evidence available on record in this case it
 appears that like in many oligopoly markets, HR coil producers recognized
 their interdependence and simply mimicked their rivals' conduct. There is no
 cogent material on record to contradict this inference. 128. The non-competitive nature of a market, by itself, does not imply an
 'agreement'. Interdependent behaviour of enterprises does not necessarily
 indicate collusive conduct. 129. For all the aforesaid reasons, the Commission is of the opinion that
 sufficient evidence has not been brought on record to establish a finding of
 contravention against the opposite parties. In such a scenario, the Commission
 deems it appropriate to order closure of the case. 130. The opposite parties had raised various other issues qua the
 investigations conducted by the DG. In light of the findings of the
 Commission on contravention, it is unnecessary to express views on such
 pleas. 131. It is ordered accordingly. 132. The Secretary is directed to inform the parties accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Chawla)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Geeta Gouri)
 Member

 Sd/- (Anurag Goel)
 Member

 Sd/- (M. L. Tayal)
 Member

 Sd/-