The plaintiff states to be a company established in accordance
with provisions of Companies Act 2013, having registered office at B-
12, fourth floor, New Multan Nagar, Delhi-110056 and is a leading
travel company for flight bookings, hotels and holiday packages. The
present suit has been filed through an Authorized Representative
namely, Sh. Anand. 2. It is the contention of the plaintiff company that the defendant
joined the company as Travel Sales Consultant vide appointment letter
dated 21.09.2022 and thereafter the defendant entered into a Training
Agreement with the plaintiff company on 24.09.2022 for a minimum
period/tenure of 01 year. It is stated by the plaintiff that, by way of the
said training agreement, the defendant was contractually bound to
complete a minimum of 01 year of service and if she fails to discharge
her service, she will be liable to pay a sum of Rs. 1,50,000/- for cost of
interviewing, hiring, time spend on hiring process and recruitment form
cost by way of liquidated damages. It is also stated that the defendant
had joined service with a mala fide intent and thereafter resigned by
sending her resignation vide email dated 19.10.2022 after receiving a
salary for the month of September 2022, without paying any heed to the
notice period, roles and responsibilities assigned or the contractual
commitment. It has also been stated that the defendant has illegally
retained company property in the form of company's access card and
has also stolen confidential information and data of the plaintiff
company, which she is now leaking and misusing at her current place of Digitally signed by SHRUTI SHRUTI CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 2025.09.19
 16:26:47 +0530 CS SCJ no. 12/23 M/S PCM WORLDWIDE FLIGHTS PVT LTD Vs. Ms. RIYA BIST Page No. 2/8 employment for personal monetary benefit. It is stated that a legal
notice dated 25.11.2022 was sent by the plaintiff company to the
defendant asking her to return the said company assets and calling upon
her to pay the sum of Rs. 1,50,000/-, which was delivered to the
defendant but she did not comply with the same. Therefore, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit seeking the following reliefs:- 3 Summons of the suit was issued to the defendant, who was served
on 07.02.2023 and WS was filed by the defendant on 01.07.2023.
However, since the WS was filed later than the statutory period,
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHRUTI
 SHRUTI CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 4. Mr. Anand, AR of plaintiff company stepped into the witness box
as PW-1 and tendered his evidence affidavit as Ex.PW1/1 and relied
upon the following documents:- 5. The said witness was duly examined in chief and discharged.
Vide statement of PW-1 recorded on 12.09.2025, ex-parte PE was
closed and matter was listed for ex-parte final arguments. 6. I have heard Ld. Proxy Counsel for the plaintiff and perused the
case file carefully. Ld. Proxy counsel for plaintiff has relied upon the
citation Vijaya Bank and Another Vs. Prashant B Narnawara Civil
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHRUTI
 SHRUTI CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 7. Since the defendant subsequently chose not to appear and her WS
was also expunged from court record, the averments in the plaint as
well as the documents filed in support of the plaint, have gone
unchallenged. The testimony of PW-1 has also gone unrebutted. 8. As per the provision of Order 8 Rule 5 (1) CPC , if the allegations
of fact in the plaint are not specifically denied or denied by necessary
implication, the allegations of fact as stated in the plaint shall be taken
to be admitted. Further, as per the Order 8 Rule 10 CPC , if the written
statement is not filed, the court shall pronounce judgment against
defendant or make any other appropriate order. The court had
proceeded ex-parte against defendant as on no one appeared for the
defendant. As the defendant has not been able to either point out
infirmities or put positive defence forward, the version as stated in the
plaint as well as by the plaintiff witness shall be taken as admitted on
behalf of defendant. Now, the court shall examine whether the plaintiff
has proven its case on its own legs so as to satisfy the test of balance of
probabilities to obtain decree in its favour. 9. The entire claim of the plaintiff company rests on the Training
Agreement dated 24.09.2022, which was allegedly entered into between
the plaintiff company and the defendant. Same has been relied upon by
PW-1 as Ex. PW1/B. Perusal of the same shows that no signatures on
behalf of the plaintiff company have been affixed on the said Training
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHRUTI
 SHRUTI CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 10. Now, in light of absence of any signatures on part of the plaintiff
company upon the main document relied upon by the plaintiff
company, the evidentiary enforceability of the said Training Agreement
comes into question. Under the Indian Contract Act , a contract is
formed when there is a valid offer, acceptance of the said offer and
presence of a consideration. Now, a written document signed by only
one party can be enforced only if the conduct of the opposite party
shows the said party's acceptance. As per the facts of the present case,
such conduct could have been shown by way of proof regarding
provision of training, issuance of appointment letter, issuance of salary
slips, records pertaining to any correspondence between the company
and the employee, etc. It is notable that not even a single such
document has been relied upon by the plaintiff company. Para 3 of the
plaint states that an appointment letter dated 21.09.2022 was issued by
the plaintiff company to the defendant, however, same has not been
produced before this court or relied upon by PW-1. No correspondence
pertaining to the resignation letter Ex. PW1/C in the form of acceptance
or rejection or raising of any objection to the said resignation letter has
been filed along with plaint. 11. At the cost of repetition, it is stated that the only document relied
upon by the plaintiff company is the Training Agreement. Although, the
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHRUTI
 SHRUTI CHAUDHARY CS SCJ no. 12/23 M/S PCM WORLDWIDE FLIGHTS PVT LTD Vs. Ms. RIYA BIST Page No. 6/8 CHAUDHARY Date: 12. It has been held repeatedly that the burden of proof to prove a
document lies on the person relying on the said document from which,
it is contended, their rights or liabilities emanate. The plaintiff has
miserably failed to prove the Training Agreement before this court.
Since the said document itself has not been proved, the arguments made
by Ld. Proxy counsel for plaintiff relying upon Vijaya Bank case
(supra) is rendered moot. 13. Additionally, the plaintiff has not made any averment pertaining
to what confidential files, data or information of the plaintiff company
was stolen by the defendant, for which a relief of permanent injunction
has been sought by the plaintiff company. Also, no evidence in this
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHRUTI
 SHRUTI CHAUDHARY
CS SCJ no. 12/23 M/S PCM WORLDWIDE FLIGHTS PVT LTD Vs. Ms. RIYA BIST PageCHAUDHARY
 No. 7/8 Date: 14. Therefore, in light of the above discussion and absence of any
credible evidence being led on behalf of the plaintiff company, it is the
considered opinion of this court that the present plaint is devoid of any
merits. Accordingly, the present plaint stands dismissed and disposed
of. 15. No order as to costs. 16. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 17. File be consigned to record room after due compliance. SHRUTI
 CHAUDHARY Date: