SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is it the beginning of decline of Flipkart and e-commerce in general?
DATE: 2022-10-05
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xvts0a/is_it_the_beginning_of_decline_of_flipkart_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

Context: I was watching a video by Gyan Therapy YT channel which highlighted how Flipkart was getting stricter with its return and replacement policy. Having used Flipkart for over a decade for shopping especially smartphone and electronics, I have observed how they have constantly reduced return period from 30 to 10 to 7 days. Return was substituted for replacement which has now become service centre replacement.

People have preferred e-commerce websites for 2 main reasons- 1) Hassle free purchase without stepping out of the house and 2) Competitive prices.

Per my observation, both these factors have diluted significantly in past few years. One can get the same product at almost same price in local market. Nor are the discounts in sales that significant. Additionally the trust and accountability of shopkeeper comes into picture when somebody buys offline. (And yes Flipkart is charging Rs 29 extra for "tamper proof secure packaging" which is practically a gimmick and just loot for nothing)

It is highly possible that Amazon may follow the same paths because oligopoly members follow the actions of others which suits them (Example:- Price hike in tariffs of Airtel, Jio and Vi at same time or removal of chargers in smartphone boxes by OEMs after Apple started it)

After sale service and consumer satisfaction has gone for a toss and there are many cases reported of unethical practices like order being cancelled by website/seller, wrong item receipt, price rise within minutes of sale with fake offers just to get traffic (like they did for iPhone 13 in BBD sale), among others. 

That being said, is offline market again expected to grow considering e-commerce giants have less and less to offer with each passing day? It isn't as lucrative and competitive as it used to be. The oligopoly is definitely kicking in.