These two appeals have been filed by the assessees against separate
orders of ld. CIT(A) both dated 23.3.2019. The grounds of appeals taken by
the assessees in both the appeals are similar and therefore these appeals
were heard together and a consolidated order is being passed. For the sake
of completeness the gronds of appeal in ITA No. 410/Lkw/2019 are
reproduced below: S. No. Name of Amount of LTCG Amount Commission on Addition in
 company as shown in
 added LTCG u/s 69 of the asstt
 the return of
 income & claimed u/s 68/ 69 the Act order
 exemption u/s
 of the Act
 10(38) 1. Sulabh
 Engineers
 58729259/ 2936462/- 61665721/- Without appreciating the supporting documentary evidences & explanation of
 the appellant placed on record with regards to the genuineness of Capital Gain
 & also the fact that the provisions of section 68 were not applicable as the
 assessee appellant had not maintained any personal set of books of A/cs
 relating to transactions in shares. 6. BECAUSE Overall addition for sums aggregating Rs. 61665721/- is based on
 whims , surmises and conjectures and by relying on the case laws , which were
 distinguishable on facts and the same did not deserve to be sustained. I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 3 7. BECAUSE the learned CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts in holding that
 the Assessing Officer had tried his best to provide cross examination of
 concerned persons whereas virtually required efforts were not made by the
 AO in enforcing the presence of such persons for their cross examination
 and even no penal action and/ or any coercive measure as provided under
 the Act was initiated against such persons. 8. BECAUSE in the absence of opportunity of cross examination of the persons
 giving statement of culpable nature, as had been sought by the appellant,
 the assessment stood wholly vitiated and consequently the addition made
 deserved to be deleted as held by the Apex Court in umpteen number of
 cases. 9. BECAUSE various adverse observations and allegations made by the lower
 authorities are contrary to the facts, material & evidences available on
 record. 10. BECAUSE in relation to the Grounds of Appeal, the appellant relies upon the
 averments made in the facts of the case. 11. BECAUSE the order of the CIT (A) is against the principle of natural justice
 erroneous and not tenable in law and on facts. 12. Because the appellant craves leave to add, amend, delete modify any of
 the grounds of appeal till the final date of hearing and disposal of appeal." 2. At the outset, the ld. AR submitted that these are the cases where
the assessee had claimed long term capital gain as exempt u/s. 10(38) of
the Act and authorities below have rejected their claim. While rejecting the
claim the Revenue relied on an investigation report of department which
concluded that prices of certain scripts were being manipulated to generate
artificial capital gains. The department held that the present assessees has
also arranged long term capital gains on the script of Sulabh Engineers &
Services Ltd. which was part of 84 penny stocks identified by the
department in it's investigation report.. It was submitted that now these
cases are covered in favour of the assessees by various orders of the
Lucknow Bench of the Tribunal where under similar facts and circumstances
and on various scripts including scrips dealt by the assessees, the bench has
allowed relief to the assessees. Reliance in this respect was placed on the
following case laws :- 3. It was further submitted that even various other benches of the
Tribunal has taken a similar view in similar cases and reliance in this respect
was placed on the following case laws: I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 6 6. The copies of these documents in ITA No. 410/Lkw/2019 as filed
before Assessing Officer are placed in Paper Book as detailed below: 7. The above documents clearly demonstrate that assessees had sold
shares through recognized stock exchanges and through authorized stock
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 7 brokers on which necessary security transaction tax and service tax has
been paid. The transactions of sale are though real time screen based
trading and payments for sale of shares has been received by the assessees
through banking channels. 8. Though the above shares were sold through authorized stock brokers
on recognized stock exchange but the same were not purchased through
the brokers in the case of Mridula Agarwal. In that case, the assessee had
purchased 35000 equity shares from Success Vayapar Ltd. on 16.4.2012 for
Rs.700000, a copy of ledger account of Success Vayapar Ltd. is placed in
P.B. pg. 22. The payment for the purchase of the above shares was made
through Union Bank of India from the account of the assessee a copy of
Bank account is placed in P.B. pgs.23 and 24 where the amount of Rs.7.00
lacs has been debited to the account of assessee. The said 35000 equity
shares of Rs.10 were sub divided in to equity shares of Rs.1/- each. Copy of
letter by BSE regarding sub division of shares is placed in P.B. pg.25. Such
shares were received in the DEMAT account of the assessee with Prabhat
Financial Services Ltd. which has been credited in the DEMAT account of the
assessee on 20.07.2012 such copy of DEMAT account is placed in P.B. page
64 to 65. 9. In the case of Shri Manoj Kumar Agarwal, the assessee did not
directly purchase the shares but he got gift of 700000 shares from his father
Maha Veer Prasad Agarwal a copy of gift deed is placed in P.B. pgs. 23-24.
The allotment of such shares was directly made by company to Shri Maha
Veer Prasad Agarwal father of the assessee and copy of allotment letter is
placed in P.B. pg.28. The payment for the above shares was made by the
father of assessee from his bank account in Bank of Baroda a copy of such
bank account is placed in P.B. pgs. 29 to 45. The relevant entries are
appearing in P.B. pg.34. Such shares were credited in the DEMAT account of
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 8 assessee with Prabhat Financial Services Ltd. a copy of such DEMAT account
statement is placed in P.B. pages 101 to 102. 9.1 These documentary evidences for purchase and sale of shares has not
been disputed by the department and neither any adverse findings has been
made on such evidences. The only reason for rejecting the claim of the
assessees is the investigation report of department and certain adverse
statements of the some persons. The assessees had requested to Assessing
Officer for making available complete statements of such persons and also
wanted to cross examine the witnesses of Revenue. A copy of request letter
to Assessing Officer is placed in P.B. pgs.177 & 111 respectively. The
Assessing Officer in turn requested the assessees to produce the witnesses
which is not in accordance with law as the Revenue was responsible for
making available it's witnesses before assessees for their cross examination.
The issue of cross examination was also not considered properly by ld.
CIT(A). Therefore there is a violation of principles of natural justice also. 10. Various benches of the Tribunal under similar facts and circumstances
has decided similar issues in favour of the assessees which has been relied
on by the assessees. The Lucknow Bench of the Tribunal also under similar
circumstances in various cases has decided similar issues in favour of the
assessee in various cases. In group appeals in ITA No. 544-552 and
555/Lkw/2019 wherein the Tribunal vide a consolidated order dated
3.6.2021 has allowed relief to the assessees in same script of Sulabh
Engineers & Services Ltd. The above appeals has been allowed by the
Tribunal after following its own orders in ITA No. 475 & 681/Lkw/2019 in
the case of Uma Shanker Dhandhania wherein vide order dated 16/02/2021
it held as under: The ld AR referred to the following judgments in support of this
contention wherein under similar facts of the case it was held that
the AO was not justified in refusing to allow the benefit under
section 10(38) of the Act and to assess the sale proceeds of
shares as undisclosed income of the assessee under section 68 of
the Act :- ordinate bench of the Tribunal has deleted the addition and
 allowed the claim of LTCG on such sale of shares Therefore,
 respectfully following the same ratio, I am inclined to set aside
 the order of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO not to treat the long
 term capital as bogus and order to allow the claim of LTCG on
 sale of share of M/s. SESL and delete the consequential addition." 9. As the issue is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by
 the decision of the SMC bench of ITAT Kolkata, and there is no
 change in facts and law and the Revenue is unable to produce
 any material to controvert the aforesaid findings of the SMC
 Bench in the case of Vasudha Jain (supra), we find no reason to
 interfere in the said order of the SMC Bench of this Tribunal and
 the same is hereby upheld. Therefore, we delete the addition of
 Rs.1,12,13,010/- and we also delete the consequential addition
 on account of unexplained expenditure towards commission at
 Rs.56,065/-. 10. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed." 9. Similarly the Chennai Bench of ITAT in ITA 384 vide order dated
18.06.2019 in the case of same scrip of M/s Sulabh Engineering Ltd. has
allowed relief to the assessee. Similar is the position of SMC bench Kolkata,
whereby in ITA No. 2378 vide order dated 07.08.2019, the Tribunal allowed
relief to the assessee. Again SMC Kolkata Bench in ITA 1018 vide order
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 13 dated 15.02.2019 allowed relief to the assessee on the same scrip and
similar is the position of B bench of Kolkata wherein vide order dated
10.05.2019 in ITA Nos. 125 and 126 the same scrip of Sulab Engineering
and Services Ltd. was considered and relief was granted to the assessee.
9.1 We further find that in a recent judgment by the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court vide order dated 15.01.2021 in an appeal filed by Revenue against
the order of Tribunal the Hon'ble Court in a consolidated order in three
appeals dismissed the appeals of the Revenue. In I.T.A. No.125, on the
basis of same investigation report, the Assessing Officer and CIT(A) had not
allowed claim of the assessee of long term capital gain on the scrip M/s
Gold Line International Finvest Ltd. In I.T.A. No. 130 and 131 similar claim
was made on scrip of M/s Eastern Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. and on
scrip of Rander Corporation Ltd. The authorities below had not allowed
claim of the assessee on the basis of same investigation report on the basis
of which claim of the assessee has been rejected. These scrips are
mentioned at Sl. No. 24, 19 and 49 in the list of penny stocks prepared by
investigation team. The Tribunal however allowed relief to the assessee by
separate orders which were confirmed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court. The
relevant findings of Hon'ble court are reproduced below: However, the Impugned Order records the factual position only in
 respect of ITA No. 1069/DEL/2019. 4. The Revenue urges identical questions of law in all the afore-
 noted appeals with the only difference being the figures relating
 to the additions made under Section 68 read with Section 115BBE of the Act. Accordingly, the same are being decided by way of
 this common order. 5. It is not in dispute, as noted in the Impugned Order, that the
 factual background in all the three appeals is quite similar.
 However, for the sake of convenience, the facts in respect of ITA
 125/2020 are being noted and discussed elaborately. Briefly
 stated, the Respondent-Assessee is an individual who has derived
 income from interest on loan, FDR, NSC and bank interest under
 the head of 'income from other sources' in respect of A.Y. 2015- 16. She filed her return of income, declaring total income of Rs.
 13,96,116/-. After claiming deduction of Rs. 1,60,000/- under
 Chapter VI-A, the total taxable income of Respondent was
 declared to be Rs. 12,36,120/-. The return was processed under Section 143(1) of the Act and thereafter the case was selected for
 scrutiny. During the scrutiny proceedings, the AO noticed that for
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 14 the relevant year under consideration, the Respondent had
claimed exempted income of Rs. 96,75,939/- as receipts from
Long Term Capital Gain [hereinafter referred to as 'LTCG'] under Section 10(38) of the Act. He inter alia concluded that the
assessee had adopted a colorable device of LTCG to avoid tax
and accordingly framed the assessment order under Section
143(3) of the Act at the total income of Rs. 1,09,12,060/-, making
an addition of Rs. 96,75,939/- under Section 68 read with 115 BBE
of the Act on account of bogus LTCG on sale of penny stocks of a
company named M/s Gold Line International Finvest Limited. The
appeal before the CIT(A) was dismissed and additions were
confirmed with the observation that the Respondent had
introduced unaccounted money into the books without paying
taxes. Further appeal filed by the Respondent before the learned
ITAT was allowed in her favour, and the additions were deleted
vide the Impugned Order, relevant portion whereof reads as
under: 6. Aggrieved by the aforesaid findings, the Revenue has filed the
instant appeals contending that, notwithstanding the tax effect in
the appeals falling below the threshold prescribed under Circular
No. 23 dated 6 th September, 2019, the appeals are maintainable
in view of the Office Memorandum dated 16th September, 2019
issued by the CBDT, which clarifies that the monetary limits
prescribed in the aforementioned circular shall not apply where
an assessee is claiming bogus LTCG through penny stocks, and
the appeals be heard on merits. 7. Mr. Zoheb Hossain, learned senior standing counsel for the
revenue (Appellant herein), contends that the learned ITAT has
completely erred in law in deleting the addition, and thus the
Impugned Order suffers from perversity. He submits that there
are certain germane factual errors, inasmuch as the learned ITAT
has wrongly recorded that there was no independent enquiry
conducted by the AO, when in fact the AO had issued notices to
the companies in question under Section 133(6) of the Act. He
points out that the observations recorded in para 25 of the
Impugned Order are factually incorrect, and in conflict with para
4 of the order of the CIT(A) dated 24th December, 2018 which
reads as follows: "4. Even the broker through whom the shares
were dematerialized and sold i.e. SMC Global Securities Ltd. was
also a part of the scam. This is a Delhi based broker whose
regional office was also surveyed. The sub brokers were also
surveyed and also statements recorded which confirmed the
payment of cash commission by the beneficiaries for being part of
the syndicate." 8. Mr. Hossain argues that in cases relating to LTCG in penny
stocks, there may not be any direct evidence in the hands of the
Revenue to establish that the investment made in such
companies was an accommodation entry. Thus the Court should
take the aspect of human probabilities into consideration that no
prudent investor would invest in penny scrips. Considering the
fact that the financials of these companies do not support the
gains made by these companies in the stock exchange, as well as
the fact that despite the notices issued by the AO, there was no
evidence forthcoming to sustain the credibility of these
companies, he argues that it can be safely concluded that the
investments made by the present Respondents were not genuine.
He submits that the AO made sufficient independent enquiry and
analysis to test the veracity of the claims of the Respondent and
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 17 after objective examination of the facts and documents, the
conclusion arrived at by the AO in respect of the transaction in
question, ought not to have been interfered with. In support of
his submission, Mr. Hossain relies upon the judgment of this
Court in Suman Poddar v. ITO , [2020] 423 ITR 480 (Delhi), and
of the Supreme Court in Sumati Dayal v. CIT , (1995) Supp. (2)
SCC 453. 9. Mr. Hossain further argues that the learned ITAT has erred in
holding that the AO did not consider examining the brokers of the
Respondent. He asserts that this holding is contrary to the
findings of the AO. As a matter of fact, the demat account
statement of the Respondent was called for from the broker M/s
SMC Global Securities Ltd under Section 133(6) of the Act, on
perusal whereof it was found that the Respondent was not a
regular investor in penny scrips. 10. We have heard Mr. Hossain at length and given our
thoughtful consideration to his contentions, but are not convinced
with the same for the reasons stated hereinafter. 11. On a perusal of the record, it is easily discernible that in the
instant case, the AO had proceeded predominantly on the basis of
the analysis of the financials of M/s Gold Line International
Finvest Limited. His conclusion and findings against the
Respondent are chiefly on the strength of the astounding
4849.2% jump in share prices of the aforesaid company within a
span of two years, which is not supported by the financials. On
an analysis of the data obtained from the websites, the AO
observes that the quantum leap in the share price is not justified;
the trade pattern of the aforesaid company did not move along
with the sensex; and the financials of the company did not show
any reason for the extraordinary performance of its stock. We
have nothing adverse to comment on the above analysis, but are
concerned with the axiomatic conclusion drawn by the AO that
the Respondent had entered into an agreement to convert
unaccounted money by claiming fictitious LTCG, which is exempt
under Section 10(38) , in a preplanned manner to evade taxes.
The AO extensively relied upon the search and survey operations
conducted by the Investigation Wing of the Income Tax
Department in Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad on penny
stocks, which sets out the modus operandi adopted in the
business of providing entries of bogus LTCG. However, the
reliance placed on the report, without further corroboration on
the basis of cogent material, does not justify his conclusion that
the transaction is bogus, sham and nothing other than a racket of
accommodation entries. We do notice that the AO made an
attempt to delve into the question of infusion of Respondent's
unaccounted money, but he did not dig deeper. Notices issued
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 18 under Sections 133(6) / 131 of the Act were issued to M/s Gold
Line International Finvest Limited, but nothing emerged from this
effort. The payment for the shares in question was made by Sh.
Salasar Trading Company. Notice was issued to this entity as well,
but when the notices were returned unserved, the AO did not
take the matter any further. He thereafter simply proceeded on
the basis of the financials of the company to come to the
conclusion that the transactions were accommodation entries,
and thus, fictitious. The conclusion drawn by the AO, that there
was an agreement to convert unaccounted money by taking
fictitious LTCG in a pre-planned manner, is therefore entirely
unsupported by any material on record. This finding is thus purely
an assumption based on conjecture made by the AO. This flawed
approach forms the reason for the learned ITAT to interfere with
the findings of the lower tax authorities. The learned ITAT after
considering the entire conspectus of case and the evidence
brought on record, held that the Respondent had successfully
discharged the initial onus cast upon it under the provisions of Section 68 of the Act. It is recorded that "There is no dispute that
the shares of the two companies were purchased online, the
payments have been made through banking channel, and the
shares were dematerialized and the sales have been routed from
de-mat account and the consideration has been received through
banking channels." The above noted factors, including the
deficient enquiry conducted by the AO and the lack of any
independent source or evidence to show that there was an
agreement between the Respondent and any other party,
prevailed upon the ITAT to take a different view. Before us, Mr.
Hossain has not been able to point out any evidence whatsoever
to allege that money changed hands between the Respondent
and the broker or any other person, or further that some person
provided the entry to convert unaccounted money for getting
benefit of LTCG, as alleged. In the absence of any such material
that could support the case put forth by the Appellant, the
additions cannot be sustained. 12. Mr. Hossain's submissions relating to the startling spike in the
share price and other factors may be enough to show
circumstances that might create suspicion; however the Court has
to decide an issue on the basis of evidence and proof, and not on
suspicion alone. The theory of human behavior and
preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited as a basis to turn
a blind eye to the evidence produced by the Respondent. With
regard to the claim that observations made by the CIT(A) were in
conflict with the Impugned Order, we may only note that the said
observations are general in nature and later in the order, the
CIT(A) itself notes that the broker did not respond to the notices.
Be that as it may, the CIT(A) has only approved the order of the
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 19 AO, following the same reasoning, and relying upon the report of
 the Investigation Wing. Lastly, reliance placed by the Revenue on Suman Poddar v. ITO ( supra) and Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) is
 of no assistance. Upon examining the judgment of Suman Poddar (supra) at length, we find that the decision therein was arrived at
 in light of the peculiar facts and circumstances demonstrated
 before the ITAT and the Court, such as, inter alia, lack of
 evidence produced by the Assessee therein to show actual sale of
 shares in that case . On such basis, the ITAT had returned the
 finding of fact against the Assessee, holding that the genuineness
 of share transaction was not established by him. However, this is
 quite different from the factual matrix at hand. Similarly, the case
 of Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) too turns on its own specific facts.
 The above-stated cases, thus, are of no assistance to the case
 sought to be canvassed by the Revenue. 13. The learned ITAT, being the last fact-finding authority, on the
 basis of the evidence brought on record, has rightly come to the
 conclusion that the lower tax authorities are not able to sustain
 the addition without any cogent material on record. We thus find
 no perversity in the Impugned Order. 14. In this view of the matter, no question of law, much less a
 substantial question of law arises for our consideration. 15. Accordingly, the present appeals are dismissed." 10. In the above noted judgment, the Hon'ble court has held that
startling spike in the share price and other factors may be enough to show
circumstances that might create suspicion but the Court has to decide an
issue on the basis of evidence and proof, and not on suspicion alone. The
Hon'ble court further distinguished the judgment in the case of Suman
Podar which was in favour of Revenue. The Hon'ble court further held that
case of Sumati Dayal u/s CIT was also not applicable to the assessee. The
Hon'ble court further held that reliance placed by the Assessing Officer on
the investigation report of Investigation Wing without further corroboration
on the basis of cogent material does not justify his conclusion that the
transaction is bogus, sham and nothing other than a racket of
accommodation entries. 11. In view of above facts and circumstances and in view of judicial
precedents, Ground Nos. 3 and 4 are allowed in ITA No. 475/Lkw/2019 and
Ground No. 1, 2, 5 & 6 were not argued, therefore, same are dismissed as
not pressed. In view of above, appeal in ITA no. 475/Lkw/2019 is partly
allowed. 12. As regards, appeal in ITA No. 681/Lkw/2019, Ground Nos. 5 and 6
are allowed. Ground Nos. 1 to 4 and ground No. 7 to 8 were not argued,
therefore, these grounds are dismissed as not pressed. As regards ground
No. 9 and 10, the Assessing Officer had made additions u/s 69C as deemed
commission on the arrangement of capital gains. Since we have allowed
 I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 20 relief to the assessee on ground No. 5 & 6, therefore, these grounds are
 also allowed. 13. As regards grounds 11 to 13 regarding deposit in bank, the assessee
 has filed additional evidences which could not be filed because of mistake of
 counsel and illness of assessee therefore, we deem it appropriate to remit
 this issue back to the office of the Assessing Officer who, after affording
 reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee, will pass appropriate
 orders. In view of the above, ground No. 11 to 13 are allowed forstatistical
 purposes. 14. In view of above, appeal in ITA No. 681 is also partly allowed and
 partly allowed for statistical purposes." 11. While allowing relief to the assessee the Tribunal has relied on various
other case laws including the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the
case of Smt. Krishna Devi and Others where Hon'ble High Court has
elaborately dealt with the contentions of Revenue. 12. We further find that Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Parasben Kasturichand Kochar
(Supra ) dated 17.09.2021 in ITA No.204 has dismissed an appeal filed by
the Revenue wherein under similar facts and circumstances the Assessing
Officer and ld. CIT(A) had made the additions for script Mohan Poly Fiber
Ltd. and which was deleted by the Tribunal and was confirmed by the
Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat. The findings of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court
are reproduced below: I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 21 2. We take notice of the fact that the issue in the present appeal is
 whether the assessee earned long term capital gain through transactions
 with bogus companies. In this regard, the finding of fact recorded by the
 Tribunal in paras 9, 10 and 11 reads thus:-- 3. Thus, the Tribunal has recorded the finding of fact that the assessee
 discharged his onus of establishing that the transactions were fair and
 transparent and further, all the relevant details with regard to such
 transactions were furnished before the Income-tax authorities and the
 Tribunal also took notice of the fact that some of the shares also remained
 in the account of the appellant. 4. We take notice of the fact that the assessee has a Demat Account
 maintained with the ICICI Securities Ltd. and has also furnished the details
 of such bank transactions with regard to the purchase of the shares. In the
 last, the Tribunal took notice of the fact that the statements recorded by
 the investigation wing of the Revenue with regard to the Tax entry provided
 were informed to the assessee despite giving him opportunity to meet such
 an allegation. In the overall view of the matter, we believe that the
 proposed question cannot be termed as a substantial question of law for the
 purpose of maintaining the appeal under section 260- A of the Act, 1961. 5. In the result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed." 12.1 We further find that the SLP filed by the Revenue has also been
dismissed by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated 02.08.2021. I.T.A. No.410 & 412/Lkw/2019 22 13. In view of these facts and circumstances and in view of the judicial
precedents we allow relief to the assessees on merits and direct the
Assessing Officer to allow the claim of capital gain u/s. 10(38) of the Act.
Since we have deleted the additions on account of denial of long term
capital gain we also delete the assumed commission which the authorities
below has assumed to have been paid by the assessees for arrangement of
such gains. 14. In view of the above facts and circumstances Ground No.5 and 6 of
the appeals are allowed. Since we have allowed appeals on merits rest of
the grounds has not been adjudicated and hence are dismissed as
infructuous. 15. In nutshell, the appeals filed by assessees are partly allowed. (Order pronounced in the open court on 05/04/2022)

 Sd/- Sd/-