J U D G M E N T

Srikrishna, J. These appeals, by special leave call into question the judgment 
of the Division Bench of the Patna High Court dismissing the writ 
application of the appellants. In the area to which the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') applied, certain lands were 
originally recorded in the names of Kochya Oraon, Bachua Oraon and 
Jagna Oraon, ancestors of one Goinda Oraon. They were the 
recorded tenants of land in Khata no.13 of village Chhotanagpur. 
Jagna Oraon died immediately after the revisional survey. Kochya 
and Bachua surrendered the tenancy pertaining to plot nos. 588, 1883, 
1884 and 1885 in Khata no.13 admeasuring 2.65 acres of the land to 
the landlord, the Maharaja of Chhotanagpur by a registered deed 
dated 7.2.1938. Soon thereafter, the landlord settled the land on the 
appellants on 25.2.1938. The appellants have been in possession of 
the land and cultivating it. On 3.2.1978 the said Goinda Oraon filed an application under section 71A of the Act for restoration of the land in question on the 
ground that the appellants had fraudulently acquired the land by 
means of a 'sada hukumnama'. This application was registered as 
S.A.R. Case No. 415/77-78. The Special Officer, Ranchi issued 
notices to the appellants and, after hearing the parties and recording 
evidence, came to the conclusion that the land belonged to the 
ancestors of Goinda, who were members of scheduled tribes and 
khatiyani holders of the land in question. Although, originally there 
were four co-sharers in the land, namely, Kochya Oraon, Bachua 
Oraon, Jagna Oraon and Goinda Oraon, the tenancies were 
surrendered only by Kochya and Bachua and not by the other two. 
The surrender was made on 7.3.1938 and the settlement in favour of 
the appellants was made on 25.3.1938. The Special Officer took the 
view that the surrender and the settlement of the land constituted one 
continuing act and was, therefore, contrary to the provisions of the 
Act. He also held that the surrender was illegal as all the shareholders 
had not surrendered their rights and decided that by reason of the 
provisions of Section 71A of the Act the tribals could not have been 
dispossessed from the aforesaid land. In this view of the matter, he 
allowed the application for restoration of possession to the applicant 
Goinda Oroan by an order made on 9.5.1980. The appellant appealed 
to the Additional Collector, Ranchi who affirmed the view of the 
Special Officer.	A revision petition was also dismissed by the 
Commissioner upholding the views of the two authorities below. The appellants challenged the order of the Revenue Authorities 
by a writ petition before the Patna High Court. The High Court 
dismissed the writ petition holding that section 71A of the Act is a 
beneficial legislation and the legislative intent is to extend protection 
to a class of citizens who were unable to protect their properties on 
account of backwardness, and, therefore, the Court had to give a broad 
and liberal construction to the legislative intent of protection. The 
High Court agreed with the authorities below that the surrender of 
the tenancy and the settlement of the land, coming in quick 
succession, was one continuous 'transaction' which was hit by section 
71A of the Act. The contention that the application for restoration was 
filed after the period of limitation, was rejected on the ground that the 
plea of limitation had not been raised at any stage of the proceeding. 
On this reasoning the High Court dismissed the writ application of the 
appellants. Hence, this appeal. Before we take up the contentions in the appeal, a quick look at 
the applicable material legal provisions. The Chhota Nagpur Tenancy 
(Amendment) Act, 1908 is of 1908 vintage. By the amending Act of 
1947 (Bihar Act 25 of 1947), which came into force with effect from 
5.1.1948) section 46 was introduced in the statute. Section 46 of the 
Act puts restrictions on the transfer of the rights by 'raiyat' who is a 
member of a Scheduled Tribe. As a rule, any transfer of holding or a 
portion of his holding by sale, exchange, gift or will and so on is 
prohibited by section 46 . Provisos (a) and (b) of Section 46 deal 
with transfer of occupancy rights of a raiyat who is a member of 
Scheduled Tribe. Both these provisos contain only one exceptional 
situation under which the transfer of the occupancy right of a raiyat 
belonging to a Scheduled Tribe is recognized in law and that is where 
it has been done with the previous sanction of the Deputy 
Commissioner. By a further amendment made by the Bihar 
Scheduled Areas Regulations, 1969, certain amendments were made, 
inter alia, in Rule 3 of Order I of Code of Civil Procedure and in Article 65 of the IInd Schedule of Limitation Act of 1963. What is of 
importance for us is the introduction of Section 71 A and 71B in the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act, 1908 (Bengal Act VI of 1908). Section 
71A reads as follows: The Section has three provisos which do not concern us as far 
as the present appeal is concerned. The other important point to be 
noticed is that Article 65 of the Schedule of Limitation Act of 1963 
was amended simultaneously by providing a period of 30 years as the 
limitation for bringing a suit for recovery of immovable property 
belonging to a member of a Scheduled Tribe. Against the background of these legal provisions, the learned 
counsel for the appellants raised the following contentions. 1.	Section 71A has no application whatsoever to the case of 
the appellant. Even if the surrender of tenancy by the 
tenants on 7.2.1938 followed by settlement of property 
on the present appellant on 25.2.1938 could be 
considered as 'transfer' within the meaning of section 
71A, there was no provision of law which existed in the 
year 1938 under which such a transfer was prohibited. 
There is no retrospectice effect given to Section 71A so 
as to cover transactions which took place in the remote 
past. Hence, the power to restore possession could not 
have been exercised under section 71A; 2.	In any event, the period of limitation of 30 years was 
long past when the application for restoration of 
possession was sought to be entered by the Special 
Officer in the year 1978. Despite service of notice of this appeal, there was no 
appearance by the fifth and sixth Respondents, who are the contesting 
Respondents. Hence, we requested Mr.P.S. Narasimha, learned 
advocate, to appear as Amicus Curiae and represent the interest of the 
said respondents who belong to a Scheduled Tribe. Mr. Narasimha 
has commendably represented the case of the said respondents and 
brought to our notice some judgments of this Court having a bearing 
on the issue. Shri Narasimha urged that there is no substance in the 
contention of the appellant on the issue of limitation. It is pointed out 
that the High Court was right in its findings that the issue of limitation 
had never been raised in the proceedings before the lower authorities. 
Limitation is not an abstract proposition of law, but must necessarily 
arise out of the facts. Hence, it was urged that we should not entertain 
the plea of limitation. Learned Amicus Curiae further contended that 
Section 71A is an enabling power of the Deputy Commissioner 
which can be exercised by him, even suo-motu, "if at any time" it 
comes to his notice that the rights of a raiyat belonging to a Scheduled 
Tribe have been taken away by reason of : (a) contravention of section 
6 or section 48 or s. 240 B or any other relevant provision of the Act; 
or (b) by any fraudulent method including decrees obtained under 
statutes by fraud or collusion. Learned amicus curiae also drew our 
attention to the judgments of this Court in Jai Mangal Oraon v. Mira 
Nayak and others (2000) 5 SCC 141; Ibrahimpatnam Taluk 
Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy and others (2003) 7 
SCC 667; State of Rajasthan v. Shankar Lal Kunda Ram Banwarilal 
(1992) Supp. 2 SCC 76; and Uttam Namdeo Mahale v. Vittal Deo 
and Others (1997) 6 SCC 73. Apart from the reasoning given by the High Court, it appears to 
us that the judgment of this Court in Ibrahimpatnam (supra) is 
decisive on the contention of limitation urged before us. Under 
somewhat similar circumstances suo-motu power was given to the 
Collector under section 50B (iv) of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana 
Area) Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1950 to call for and 
examine the record relating to any certificate issued or proceedings 
taken by the Tahsildar under this section for the purpose of satisfying 
himself as to the legality or propriety of such certificate or as to the 
regularity of such proceedings and pass such order in relation thereto 
as he may think fit. In this judgment, to which one of us (Shivraj V. 
Patil,J.) was a party, the Court observed (para 9): must be understood as within a reasonable time 
depending on the fats and circumstances of each 
case in the absence of prescribed period of 
limitation." We are, therefore, of the view that the use of the words "at any 
time" in section 71A is evidence of the legislative intent to give 
sufficient flexibility to the Deputy Commissioner to implement the 
socio-economic policy of the Act viz. to prevent inroads upon the 
rights of the ignorant, illiterate and backward citizens. Thus, where 
the Deputy Commissioner chooses to exercise his power under 
Section 71A it would be futile to contend that the period of limitation 
under Limitation Act has expired. The period of limitation under the Limitation Act is intended to bar suits brought in civil courts where 
the party himself chooses to exercise his right of seeking restoration 
of immovable property. But, where, for socio-economic reasons, the 
party may not even be aware of his own rights, the legislature has 
stepped in by making an officer of the State responsible for doing 
social justice by clothing him with sufficient power. However, even 
such power cannot be exercised after an unreasonably long time 
during which third party interests might have come into effect. Thus, 
the test is not whether the period of limitation prescribed in the Act of 
1963 had expired, but whether the power under Section 71A was 
sought to be exercised after unreasonable delay. 
Mr. Narasimha fairly conceded that he was not in a position to 
demonstrate that the surrender which took place on 17.2.1938 was in 
contravention of any of the provisions of the Act. He also conceded 
that section 46, which came into force on 5.1.1948, had no 
retrospective effect. Thus, there was no question of the transfer which 
took place in 1938 being in contravention of section 46. He, however, 
strongly urged that the circumstances of the transfer brought about on 
record suggest a fraudulent transaction on the part of the landlord. He 
particularly urged that as the facts show only some of the co-sharers 
had surrendered their rights while some had not and the landlord had 
managed to take possession of the land and within a span of less than 
three weeks settled the land upon the present appellants. This 
transaction smacks of a fraudulent act and must be viewed at askance, 
is his submission. We will assume that the surrender of tenancy on 7.2.1938 and 
the settlement of the lands on the present appellant on 25.2.1938 were 
in quick succession and could be viewed as parts of the same 
transaction within the meaning of the term 'transfer' as contemplated 
by the Act. Nonetheless, it has not been established before us that the 
transfer was contrary to any other provisions of the Act. 
We shall now examine the last argument of Shri Narasimha that 
the transfer was fraudulent. Even on this, we are afraid that the 
appellants are entitled to succeed. We need not go into the details of 
the transaction for we may even assume that the transfer was 
fraudulent. Even then, as held in Ibrahimpatnam (supra), the power 
under Section 71A could have been exercised only within a 
reasonable time. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the 
present appeal, we are not satisfied that the Special officer exercised 
his powers under Section 71A within a reasonable period of time. 
The lapse of 40 years is certainly not a reasonable time for exercise of 
power, even if it is not hedged in by a period of limitation. We derive 
support to our view from the observations made by this Court in Jai 
Mangal Oraon case (supra) which was also a case which arose under 
the very same provision of law. There this Court took the view that 
Section 46(4)(a), which envisaged a prior sanction of the Deputy 
Commissioner before effecting the transfer in any of the modes stated 
therein, was introduced only in the year 1947 (with effect from 
5.1.1948) and no such provision existed during the relevant point of 
time when the surrender was made in that case (15.1.1942). 
Obviously, therefore, no such provision existed in 1938, and the same 
reasoning applies. In the result, therefore, we are of the view that the Special 
Officer ought not to have exercised his powers under Section 71A of 
the Act after such an unreasonable long period of time, in the facts 
and circumstances of the case brought to light. The appellants succeed. The impugned judgment of the High 
Court and the impugned judgments of the authorities below are all set 
aside and the application for restoration made by the fifth respondent 
being SAR 415/77-78 is dismissed. There shall be no orders as to costs. We place on record our appreciation of the able assistance 
rendered by the Amicus Curiae Shri P.S. Narasimha.