INDEX
 I.Preface.............................................................................................................4
 II.Prayers............................................................................................................4 Page 1 of 95 HC-NIC Page 1 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 III.Issues for which Special Audit is directed by impugned order:.....................7
 (1) Scam in Selling Milk Power at lower rate than rate by the federation:....7
 (2) Scam in Purchasing sugar at higher rate than market rate by the
 federation:.......................................................................................................8
 (3) Creating Huge Liability of the Society by taking unnecessary Loans:.....8
 (4) Unnecessary expenses without tender and permission - unauthorised
 and illegal purchase:.......................................................................................8
 (5) Scam by establishing new huge plant at Dharuhera (in Haryana) without
 actual need and without tender process:.......................................................9
 (6) Undue high expenses for inauguration functions of Jagudan and
 Dharuhera plants:...........................................................................................9
 (7) Huge payment towards advocate fees at High Court and Supreme
 Court:..............................................................................................................9
 (8) Huge expenses under the pretext of hospitality and spending 458 Crores
 rupees for construction without permission of competent authority:............10
 (9) Scam in Purchasing Gunny bags for Sagardan (processed food for
 cattle) at higher rate than market rate: ........................................................10
 (10)Scam by establishing new huge plant for Sagardan at Jagudan without
 actual need and without tender process in purchasing raw-material:..........11
 (11)Purchasing properties at New Delhi & Ahmedabad without any reason: HC-NIC Page 4 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Registrar herein at Annexure-A to this petition. B. Pending final hearing and disposal of the
 petition, the Hon'ble Court be pleased to stay
 the execution, operation and implementation of
 the order dated 22.05.2015 passed by the
 respondent No.2 - Registrar herein at Annexure-A
 to this petition. C. The Hon'ble Court may be pleased to grant
 such other and further relief/s as deemed just
 and proper by this Hon'ble Court in the interest
 of justice. 3. By the impugned order dated 22.05.2015, the
 Registrar, Co-operative Societies, Gujarat State
 at Gandhinagar has ordered special audit of
 petitioner Co-operative Society as per provision
 of Section 84 (5A) of the Act. Earlier, some
 members of erstwhile managing committee had filed
 Special Civil Application No. 9017 of 2015
 challenging the same order dated 22.05.2015.
 There was interim relief in their favour against
 execution and implementation of impugned order
 22.05.2015. The aforesaid Special Civil
 Application was placed for hearing before this
 Court on 14.03.2017. It was argued at length and
 therefore this Court has benefit to know the
 basic issues raised in this petition. However Page 5 of 95 HC-NIC Page 5 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 when it was found during the submissions by
 petitioners of that Special Civil Application
 that there are least chance to succeed in the
 matter, they sought permission to withdraw the
 Special Civil Application. It may be considered
 by them that after passage of time they lost
 their locus standi to challenge the impugned
 order because they do not continue as members /
 directors of the petitioner which was now managed
 by newly elected members and new committee. It
 was also apprehended by them that observation and
 discussion on merits would hamper their aim to
 delay the audit as per impugned order. An attempt
 was made by the petitioner society to be
 implemented in such previous petition, but when
 that previous petition was infructuous, now
 petitioner has filed this fresh petition
 challenging the same order. 4. The Respondent No. 2, Registrar, Co-operative
 Societies has, by impugned order dated 22.05.2015
 at Annexure - A to the Special Civil Application,
 constituted two teams for the purpose of carrying
 out special audit under Section 84(5A) of the Act
 with respect to 28 issues as referred in and
 annexed with a separate list with impugned order
 dated 22.05.2015. 5. While seeking to quash and set aside such Page 6 of 95 HC-NIC Page 6 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 impugned order dated 22.05.2015, interim relief
 is also prayed for, whereby stay of execution,
 operation and implementation of the impugned
 order dated 22.05.2017, with reference to several
 provisions of the Act. 6. Thus, nature, contents and requirement of
 impugned order needs to be examined with
 reference to the provisions of the Act being Sections 2 , 74C , 84 , 85 , 86 , 93 etc. read with
 Rules 38 & 39 etc. of the Gujarat Co-Operative
 Societies Rules, 1965 as referred by the
 petitioner. (Hereinafter refereed as "the
 Rules"). 7. By impugned order dated 22.05.2017 Respondent No.
 2 has, by exercising its powers under Section
 84(5A) of the Act, directed special audit of the
 petitioner Society by two teams concerning 28
 issues. Therefore, initially it would be
 appropriate to recall those issues for which
 audit is to be carried out, so as to scrutinize
 that whether those issues can be subject matter
 of the audit, as it is objected by the
 petitioner. With impugned order, Respondent has
 annexed following issues for which special audit
 is directed. III. Issues for which Special Audit is directed by
 impugned order: material: (12) Less payment to the milk producers and
 utilising that amount for scams: Amount of Rs. 127 Crores is paid less to
 the producers of Mehsana District Milk
 Producers Union - the petitioner herein.
 (in fact it would be more than 129 Crores
 of rupees)

 (13) Non action on the part of Government
 officers against scam, which results in to
 encouragement for more scams:: (23) Unwarranted expenses for inaugural
 functions at Jagudan and Kadi: (1) There is difference between "Special Audit" as
 referred in Section 84 (5A) and "Inquiry'
 contemplated under Section 86 , submitting that
 though impugned order is directing to conduct
 Special Audit, in fact it is purported to Page 18 of 95 HC-NIC Page 18 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 "Inquire" issues as per list Annexed with the
 impugned order; (2) During Special Audit, only entries in account can
 be checked and irregularities or other misdeeds
 cannot be inquired,

 (3) Factually, all the issues as per list attached
 with the impugned order may be subject matter of
 inquiry and not audit; (4) Provision of Section 93 of Act provides remedy in
 case of liability of erring person(s) and
 therefore special audit cannot be allowed, when
 regular audit and re-audit is completed,
 submitting that Registrar may fix the liability
 of person and may require such person(s) to repay
 or restore the money or property or any part
 thereof, with interest as provided under the
 Section; (5) In such cases of inquiry, principles of natural
 justice is to be followed, whereby opportunity to
 explain the issues is to be given to the
 concerned person; as ruled in decision by the
 High Court in Chimanbhai Dadubhai Desai Vs.
 Chaturbhai P Patel, Dist Registrar Co-Operative
 Societies reported in 1971 GLR 31, but Respondent
 does not want to extend such opportunity and Page 19 of 95 HC-NIC Page 19 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 hence impugned order is passed under Section
 84(5A) but effectively it is an order for
 Inquiry, which cannot be done in the name of
 Special Audit; (6) Auditors appointed by impugned order are not
 qualified to act as an auditor pursuant to
 provision of Rule 38 of the Rules. (7) Registrar (Respondent No 2) could not exercise
 powers under Section 84 (5A) since he has
 nominated his representative in the committee of
 the petitioner's Society and pursuant to
 Government Resolution No. MKT/102003-2795-G dated
 15/4/05 and Notification of even no. dated 26-4-
 2005, copies of which are produced at Annexure
 "R" collectively with the petition (page Nos.
 322-324); and

 (8) There is malafide intention on the part of the
 respondents in disturbing the management of
 petitioner Society due to political rivalry. In
 support of such submission, petitioner is relying
 upon history of disputes between parties in the
 form of action taken by respondent u/s 93 of the
 Act so also non holding of election of the
 petitioner society, so also contempt proceedings
 need to be initiated by the Society against
 respondents and some other similar issues, which Page 20 of 95 HC-NIC Page 20 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 are elaborated in greater detail in para 2.2 to
 2.28 of the petition and by Annexures "B to "O" 9. When several provisions of the Act are referred
 and relied upon, it would be relevant to refer
 them for ready reference, since it is to be
 applied in its proper perspective to the issues
 raised in this petition. Therefore, they are
 reproduced hereunder. Section 2 : Definitions

 In this Act unless the context otherwise
 requires,- (1) "auditor" means a certified auditor
 appointed either by the Registrar or by a
 society to audit the accounts of the society; x x x x x x x x x
 (4) "Certified auditor" means a person who
 possesses the prescribed qualifications and
 is authorized of the affairs by the Registrar
 as an auditor under section 84 ; x x x x x x x x x
 (9) "federal society" means society, not less
 than ten members of which are themselves
 societies; 10. Section 74C being part of Chapter VII of the Act ,
 regarding Management of the Society wherein there
 is Provision for conduct of elections of Page 21 of 95 HC-NIC Page 21 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 committees and officers of certain societies and
 term of office of members of such committees, but
 it is referred mainly for the purpose of
 identifying the Petitioner Society as an "Apex
 Society" or "Federal Society". Sub section (2),
 (3) & (4) of the section are with reference to
 term of the office of elected members and bodies;
 hence not reproduce herein, since only Sub
 section (1) is referred to emphasize the scope of
 considering the petitioner as Apex Society, so as
 to get it out of the scope of the provision of
 Section. Therefore, relevant text is highlighted
 in bold fonts. Section 74C . Provision for conduct of elections
 committees and officers of certain societies
 and term of office of members of such
 committees:- operativeFederation Limited, Bharuch. (7) The Gujarat State Co-operative Housing
 FinanceSociety Limited, Ahmedabad. (8) The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing
 Federation Limited, Anand. (9) The Gujarat State Co-operative Marketing
 Federation Limited, Ahmedabad. (10) The Gujarat State Co-operative Cotton
 MarketingFederation Limited, Ahmedabad. (11) The Gujarat State Co-operative Oil Seeds
 Growers' Federation Limited, Bhavnagar. (14) The Gujarat Industrial Co-operative Bank
 Limited. Ahmedabad. (16) The Gujarat State Mitha Utpadak Sahkari
 Sangh Limited, Surendranagar. 11. Sections 84 , 85 , 86 & 93 , as referred by the
 petitioner, are part of Chapter VIII regarding
 Audit, Inquiry, Inspection and Supervision; which
 reads as under: HC-NIC Page 26 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 (5A) The Registrar shall, by an order, provide for
 a special audit of any society on its own or
 on the basis of the recommendation of the
 Reserve Bank of India or, as the case may be,
 the National Bank. The provisions relating to
 audit of accounts of the society made under
 this section shall also apply to such special
 audit. (6) For auditing the accounts of a society under
 this section, every society shall be liable
 to pay to the auditor such amount as audit
 fee as may be prescribed by the Government
 for different categories or class of
 societies. (7) The Registrar shall, in consultation with the
 National Bank prescribe Prudential Norms
 including Capital to Risk Weighted Assets
 Ratio for Primary Agricultural Credit
 Cooperative Societies. (8) The Registrar shall, by an order, provide for
 the periodical inspection by the officers
 subordinate to the Registrar or by the
 federal society or by the financial bank, for
 a class of society under Sec. 87 or Sec. 88 . (9) The State Government may by rules, provide
 for the form and manner in which and the
 period within which the accounts of the
 society or the class of society shall be
 prepared and submitted for the purpose of
 online audit.. Section 85 : Rectification of defects or
 irregularities in accounts and inspection
 report of the Society:- HC-NIC Page 30 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT (i) in case the State Government have
 subscribed directly to the share capital
 of the society or in case any moneys are
 due from the society to the Principal
 State Partnership Fund or to the
 Subsidiary State Partnership Fund, to the
 State Government or to any officer
 appointed by it in this behalf; (ii) to the federal co-operative society
 concerned, and (iii) to the society concerned. (6) It shall be competent for the Registrar to
 withdraw any inquiry from the officer to whom
 it is entrusted, and to hold the inquiry
 himself or entrust it to any other person as
 he deems fit. Section 93 : Power of Registrar to assess
 damages against delinquent, promoters,
 etc.:- Rule 38: Qualifications for auditors:- operation and accountancy, or (c) he has served as an auditor in the Co- operative Department of the State Government
 and,

 whose name has been included by the Registrar
 in panel of auditors maintained by him and
 Published in the Official Gazette at least
 once every three years. Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-
 Rule (1), in the case of Central Co-operative
 Banks and the State Co-operative Banks, the
 audit shall be conducted by the Chartered
 Accountant from the panel approved by the
 National Bank. Rule 39: Requisition of a federal society for
 enquiry of its member society:- 12. It is submitted by the Learned Counsel for the
 petitioner that the powers for direction of
 special audit u/s 84(5A) cannot be exercised by
 the Respondent No.2 for several reasons, viz: 13 and 2013-2014. (i) There is no substance in such submission
 for the simple reason that the Amendment Act
 came into force with effect from 10.4.2015,
 but there is no restriction or confirmation
 that the effect of provision shall be
 prospective only. When Act is amended, the Page 34 of 95 HC-NIC Page 34 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 amended provision will be effective for all
 purposes to all concerned in absence of
 specific restriction for being effective
 retrospectively. The Section 84(5A) of the
 principal Act of 1961 is amended by the
 provisions of Section 23 of the Gujarat Co-
 Operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 2015;
 which simply confirms while introducing new
 sub-section (5A) that "In the principal Act,
 in section 84 , after sub-section (5), the
 following new section shall be inserted,
 namely:-". Therefore, there is no reason to
 hold that provision of such section is
 applicable only prospectively and there
 cannot be order of special audit of previous
 years. It is quite clear and obvious that
 generally audit is to be carried out for the
 previous year's accounts and not for coming
 years. (ii) Whereas in answer to the submission by
 learned senior counsel for the petitioner
 that provision of Section 84(5A) cannot be
 made applicable for auditing the accounts of
 the previous years i.e. 2012-13 and 2013-14
 when such section is amended in the statute
 only in the year 2015; The learned Addl.
 Advocate General is relying upon the
 following case:- Vs. State of Orissa reported in AIR 1991
 SC 672; ( c) Yadlapati Venkateswarlu Vs. The
 State of Andhra Pradesh reported in AIR
 1991 SC 704; All such decisions confirms the rule that an
 amendment Act must be read as if the words of
 amendment had been written into the Act
 except where that would lead to an
 consistency. (Shamarao V. Parulekar v.
 District Magistrate, Thana Bombay, 1952 SCR
 683 at p. 689: (AIR 1952 SC 324 at p. 327- 8)). Power of the Legislature to pass a law
 includes the power to validate actions
 retrospectively, of course, within
 Constitutional limitations.[ Para 7 of
 Yadlapati Venkateswarlu (supra)] In above
 cases the Court explained as to how the
 declaratory statute would operate. The
 principles of interpretation propounded by Page 36 of 95 HC-NIC Page 36 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 the aforesaid decisions were helpful in
 appreciating the submissions of the
 respondent about the applicability of Section
 84(5A) Act to his case. (b) The special audit can only check
 accounts and entries within account but could
 not inquire about misdeeds, misappropriation,
 or any other irregularities. (i) There is no substance in such submission
 also. For the purpose, one has to realise
 that what is the meaning of audit and what is
 the difference between audit and inquiry. It
 is true that powers to direct audit is
 provided under Section 84 and powers for
 direction regarding inquiry is under section 86. However, by and large the meaning and
 concepts of both the words are overlapping
 each other. (ii) For the dictionary meaning of "audit"
 petitioner has relied only upon two Xerox
 pages probably part of Black's Law
 Dictionary, and submits that Audit means a
 formal examination of an individual's or
 organization's accounting records, financial
 situation or compliance with some other set
 of standards. Learned counsel has tried to
 explain by referring some other phrase with
 the word audit explained on these two pages
 to emphasize that audit would never be termed
 as inquiry. However, the same two pages are
 also explaining few more concepts with
 reference to audit, viz: Compliance Audit -
 An audit conducted by regulatory agency, an
 organization or third party to assess Page 37 of 95 HC-NIC Page 37 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 compliance with one or more set of Laws and
 regulations; Event Driven Audit - An audit
 that focus on particular transaction or
 activities that may raise significant legal
 issues. Unlike routine periodic audits, an
 event-driven audit can focus substantial
 auditing recourse on analysing particular
 event. (iii) In Judicial Dictionary by
 LexisNexis, the term audit is explained thus;
 Audit means examining of accounts. An audit
 may be either detailed or administrative, and
 is usually both. A detailed audit is a
 comparison of vouchers with entries of
 payment, in order that the party whose
 accounts are audited may not debit his
 employer with payments not in fact made. An
 administrative audit is a comparison of
 payments with authorities to pay, in order
 that the party whose accounts are audited may
 not debit his employer with payments not
 authorised. If in either branch of audit an
 improper entry is discovered, the auditor
 surcharges the party whose accounts are
 audited; whereby the payment must be made by
 such party out of his own pocket. Where no
 fraud is suspected, however, and when there
 has been no negligence, it is common for the
 surcharge to be remitted. Thus, the audit is
 also used to detect fraud. Prem's Judicial
 Dictionary confirms that an auditor has to
 mention that there is non-compliance with the
 statutory direction. (iv) Whereas synonyms of the word "audit" over, go over, go through, scrutinize, probe,
 vet, investigate, look into, enquire into,
 check, check into, assess, appraise,
 evaluate, review, analyse, study, pore over,
 peruse, sift, dissect, go over with a fine-
 tooth comb, delve into, dig into; check out; (v) As defined in ISO 19011:2011--Guidelines
 for auditing management systems, an audit is
 a "systematic, independent and documented
 process for obtaining audit evidence
 [records, statements of fact or other
 information which are relevant and
 verifiable] and evaluating it objectively to
 determine the extent to which the audit
 criteria [set of policies, procedures or
 requirements] are fulfilled." Several audit
 methods may be employed to achieve the audit
 purpose; (c) Therefore, there is no substance in
 submission that "audit" has a restricted
 meaning and therefore the impugned order is
 practically for inquiry under section 86 , but
 respondent have intentionally declare the
 order under Section 84(5A) so as to avoid to
 follow principles of natural justice. including the meaning as "audit", which can Page 39 of 95 HC-NIC Page 39 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 be seen from the synonyms of the word - 13. Similarly translation of word audit in Gujarati
 means: 14. Whereas definition synonyms of word "audit" are
 as under: 15. Therefore when dictionary meaning and synonyms of
 the word "audit" includes the bare meaning of
 word "inquiry" also, prima facie it becomes clear
 that respondents have right to order for special
 audit when there are several allegation as per
 list attached with the impugned order
 irrespective of different consideration for
 inquiry under section 86 , because unless there is
 audit, there cannot be a clear picture for
 inquiry under section 86 . 16. Similarly when dictionary meaning and synonyms of
 the word "inquiry" includes the bare meaning of
 word "audit" also, at the most co-operative
 society or aggrieved person may ask to follow
 principal of natural justice, though it is
 misconception on their part. 17. However it is not permissible to say that for any
 society or its member or director that whatever
 irregularities are there in the accounts of the
 society, respondent should not direct for special
 audit as per statute, that too only on the ground
 that respondents are having political grudge,
 more particularly when it is evident from the
 list of issues raised in list with impugned order
 that there are several serious issues which
 require to be scrutinized and scrutiny cannot be
 denied by the management of the society, only Page 42 of 95 HC-NIC Page 42 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 because they have succeeded to continue in the
 management. This democratic set up is well seen
 in several such other cases like 2G Scam, coal
 scam etc., where in fact misdeed of elected party
 has been visualized only after audit report. It
 cannot be ignored that there is prima facie
 material in the accounts to prove scam of Rs.54.7
 crores of rupees of the society coupled with
 improper utilization of funds to the extent of
 Rs.545 crores and less payment of Rs.127 crores
 to the members of the society than the members of
 the similarly situated society of Banaskantha
 District. Thereby, there is fraud of Rs.717
 crores, and for doing so, more than Rs.128 crores
 are not paid to the members of the society,
 though it is the basic concept of the co-
 operative concept. 18. It seems that total scam or fraud may be quite
 more than Rs.717 crores and therefore there is
 certainly a need for special audit of the
 petitioner union to find out that whether there
 is actually any scam and if it is so then to what
 extent and how and who is responsible. So far as
 powers of the respondents under the statute are
 concerned, it is not the case of the petitioner
 that respondents have no power to scrutinize all
 such issues, the only allegation is that it is
 being ordered due to political rivalry and the Page 43 of 95 HC-NIC Page 43 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 only objection is that in the pretext of special
 audit, respondents in fact wants to inquire about
 the issues, which they could not do under the
 provision so section 84(5A) , since those powers
 are under section 86 where opportunity of hearing
 is to be extended to the society to explain their
 stand, but; as it is alleged that; respondents
 does not wants to give any opportunity to any one
 and wants to take over the management of the
 petitioner only because of political rivalry.
 There is no substance in such submission also,
 since it is only apprehension of the petitioner,
 and even if there is some apprehension to that
 effect, there can be way out of it rather than
 dragging the issue for years together. 19. It cannot be ignored that previously few ex
 members / directors of the petitioner union had
 opted to challenge the same impugned order and
 may be because of the lacuna in judicial system;
 of not being able to deal with each case at the
 earliest considering the issues raised in it; and
 to some extent may be because of the tactics by
 litigant to get the matters adjourned for
 different reasons once favourable interim relief
 is there in favour of them, the stay against the
 impugned order was continued from 01.06.2015
 till 14.03.2017, when matter was withdrawn after
 being fully argued by advocate for those Page 44 of 95 HC-NIC Page 44 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 petitioner before this Court. This court is at
 advantage because such previous round of
 litigation was before this court only, wherein at
 the time of actual hearing, initially court has
 specifically raised a query about locus standi of
 those petitioner to continue with such litigation
 and ultimately after submissions by the advocate
 for those private petitioners, since they were ex
 members of the petitioner society, they realised
 that petition would be dismissed for wants of
 locus and therefore discussion on merits would
 disturb the right of the present petitioner, that
 petition was withdrawn, though present petitioner
 has filed an application to join them as a
 petitioner. That exercise was only with a view to
 see that interim relief continues for a long
 time. 20. Speedy disposal of cases or matters is not a
 simple criteria; the disputes should be resolved
 speedily. Therefore, when there are allegations
 of political rivalry by respondents, which are
 yet not proved, there is reason to believe that
 the petitioner is also taking disadvantage of
 several situation making it in their favour by
 different means. Time has come where speedy
 disposal needs to be considered as speedy
 redressal of grievances and not merely the speedy
 disposal of particular file / case / matter or Page 45 of 95 HC-NIC Page 45 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 issue on hand only. An attempt is made to avoid
 multiplicity of litigation on similar or same
 issue and to see that truth comes out at the
 earliest. Therefore, the final decision would see
 that there may not be multiplicity of litigation
 and grievances may be redressed in one exercise
 only. 21. Therefore when there is provision under the
 statute to order special audit of any society,
 and when there is no restriction whatsoever upon
 the respondents for directing special audit,
 there is no reason to restrict the respondents
 from doing so merely on presumption and
 apprehension by the petitioner that under the
 pretext of the audit, respondents would start
 inquiry of the issues raised by impugned order,
 impugned order cannot be stayed without
 considering the facts of those issues. 2) Issue No. (2) and (3) Regarding powers of
 audit with reference to the statute and facts: 22. Since these two issues are interconnected and
 correlated with each other, they are discussed
 and answered together: 23. It is evident from those issues that for the
 period under reference i.e. the financial years
 2012 - 13 and 2013 - 14, Page 46 of 95 HC-NIC Page 46 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 (1) When price of milk powder in the market
 was Rs.205/-, the petitioner union has sold
 7000 metric ton (1 metric ton = 1000 kg.)
 milk powder at the lower price of Rs.164/-;
 irrespective of fixing liability of the wrong
 doer, therefore it is necessary and essential
 to find out that how these sales are shown in
 the books of accounts, considering the fact
 that probable loss to the union, a co-
 operative society formed for the benefit of
 its members is about 28 Crores rupees; (2) When sugar was available in the market
 at the rate of Rs.30/- per kg., the
 petitioner has paid as much as Rs.47/- per
 kg. for 1750 metric ton sugar, therefore it
 is necessary and essential to find out that
 how these purchases are shown in the books of
 accounts, considering the fact that probable
 loss to the union, a co-operative society
 formed for the benefit of its members is
 about 7 Crores rupees,

 (3) To find out that why huge loan is taken
 i.e. for what purpose and where such funds
 have been utilized; the core issue which
 needs to be addressed would be the necessity
 of raising funds by loan when petitioner -
 society is financially sound and may not
 require any financial support, more
 particularly in the form of bank loan so as
 to pay higher rate of interest on such loan
 amount. For all such inquiry, by all means,
 access to original accounts of the petitioner
 is very much material; (4) Similarly, if any requisite item for the Page 47 of 95 HC-NIC Page 47 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 society was purchased without following
 tender process, and without express sanction
 by the Government, then, it becomes clear
 that there is arbitrariness and financial
 irregularities and therefore, it is to be
 verified from the account that how such item
 has been procured so as to initiate further
 inquiry; (5) Though there is intimation regarding
 non-utilisation of milk processing plant at
 Dharuhera Village, before initiating further
 inquiry, it needs to be verified from the
 accounts about the actual loss and damages
 suffered by the petitioner - Union; (6) Similarly, if huge amount is spent for
 inauguration programme of Jagudan and
 Dharuhera plants, then, there is need to
 verify during special audit that to whom such
 payment is made so as to take further steps
 in accordance with law; (7) Similarly, when in one financial year a
 huge amount of Rs.598/- Lacs is debited
 towards advocate fees, then, there is
 certainly a need to verify from the accounts
 that for which case and to whom such huge
 amount is paid and that too whether it is for
 pending cases or otherwise. All such facts
 may have a prima facie detail, but accounts
 would certainly disclose the further details
 regarding actual mode of payment, date of
 payment and details of person to whom such
 amount is paid. Therefore, audit is not
 restricted to the calculation and entry part
 only; otherwise, audit would not have any Page 48 of 95 HC-NIC Page 48 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 meaning at all. As already discussed herein
 above, audit also includes some inquiry and
 more particularly, it would certainly include
 verification of the mode of payment, the date
 of payment and relevant information, so as to
 conduct further inquiry and therefore, it
 cannot be said that the word 'audit' has a
 limited meaning and all such facts cannot be
 gathered under the ambit of audit. (8) Similarly, there is serious allegation
 regarding expenditure of Rs.19 Crores for
 extending hospitality and spending of Rs.458
 Crores for construction. Therefore, when
 details should disclose in previous audit
 report that such amount was spent for which
 construction and for whose hospitality, then,
 naturally, further audit is required to
 verify such fact so as to initiate further
 proceedings against the wrongdoers. When
 gunny-bags were purchased by making 12.52
 Lacs additional payment, then, it is to be
 verified that how such payment is made and to
 whom. (9) When unwarranted plant for Sagardan at
 Jagudan was established with extra-ordinary
 capacity of 1000 M.T. at the cost of Rs.46.76
 Crores and thereafter, when loss of 64 Crores
 is shown in the accounts for such plant,
 respondents have received intimation that
 office-bearers of the petitioner's Committee
 have committed a scam by making huge payment
 towards raw-materials whereby raw-materials
 were purchased without requirement at heavy
 cost, which resulted into loss to the plant
 to the tune of Rs.64 Crores, it is necessary Page 49 of 95 HC-NIC Page 49 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 to find out the details of such transaction. (10) Though petitioner's area of operation is
 restricted to Mehsana District and though
 they are connected and concerned with Gujarat
 Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd.
 at Anand in Gujarat State only, the
 petitioner has purchased the property in posh
 area of Delhi, namely, Chanakyapuri at the
 cost of Rs.18 Crores only for the benefit of
 Chairman and similarly, though there is no
 activity of the petitioner in Ahmedabad, an
 office property is purchased in Ahmedabad at
 the cost of Rs.2.75 Crores. This also
 requires to be verified that from whom such
 properties were purchased and to whom payment
 is made so as to initiate necessary action
 against them. (11) The most important and scandalous scam
 is to pay less price of milk to the members
 of the petitioner's Union though the members
 of the neighbouring Districts of similar
 Union are getting Rs.510/- per kilogram of
 milk fat, the petitioner has paid only
 Rs.473/- per kilogram of milk fat to its
 members. The calculation shows that thereby,
 the petitioner has not paid or distributed
 atleast minimum Rs.128 Crores to its members
 though it is the primary function of the
 Unions like petitioner to see that their
 members get maximum profit. Surprisingly, an
 attempt was made to emphasize that if less
 amount is paid to the members, then, it is
 not a scam, but it is profit to the society,
 and unfortunately, the petitioner has failed
 to realise that these arguments on the Page 50 of 95 HC-NIC Page 50 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 contrary confirm that on the one hand, the
 administrative body of the petitioner - Union
 is not paying/distributing Rs.128 Crores to
 its members in a year and on the other hand,
 the office bearers of the petitioner are
 spending huge amount without following
 procedure for which details are discussed
 herein, whereby, practically, they have
 committed scam and now, they are trying to
 avoid audit of such scam so that they may not
 be prosecuted either under general law or may
 not be debarred under the Act for being a
 member of the Committee or there may not be
 an order of recovering such amount from them.
 This attitude goes to the root of the
 dispute. An attempt was made to convince the
 Court that non-payment to members at initial
 stage, is not negative, since at the end of
 financial year, generally, petitioner is
 paying the difference as per the market rates
 to its members. If it is so, then, petitioner
 should not be afraid of the special audit. On
 the contrary, the petitioner should have come
 forward with all relevant entries and
 information to prove that there is no scam at
 all irrespective of list of 28 items in that
 order. However, the way in which petitioner
 is trying to avoid special audit is
 concerned, the only presumption would be
 against the petitioner when they have to hide
 certain facts and therefore, by one or other
 reason, and by any means, they want to stop
 the special audit and thereby, further
 inquiry u/s.86 and under any other general
 law applicable to the facts and evidence that
 may be available on such special audit, and
 they also want to rescue themselves from
 order u/s.93 for repaying the amount, which Page 51 of 95 HC-NIC Page 51 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 is utilized by them unofficially,
 unauthorizedly and by irregular as well as
 illegal means and method. (12) When petitioner has challenged the
 powers of respondent No.2 in ordering special
 audit contending that it would amount to
 inquiring his own nominee, then, petitioner
 should not be afraid of similar treatment
 with them, inasmuch as the impugned order on
 the contrary confirms the scope of the audit
 that it would also cover the misdeeds, if
 any committed by any Government officer
 either deputed with the petitioner or working
 in the department, when it is contended that
 such officers have let-go the irregularities
 by the petitioner, which resulted into
 encouraging the petitioner in continuing its
 unlawful and irregular activities. Therefore,
 when the scope of audit would certainly
 result into identifying and collecting the
 details of scam and details of responsible
 person, the persons who may be responsible
 for such scam cannot be allowed to object the
 special audit. (13) Another serious issue is regarding
 inflow of milk, which was 25 Lacs litres in
 the year 2010, but it is reduced to 16 Lacs
 litres in the year 2012, which results into
 frustrating the main object of the petitioner - society. Therefore, when such information
 is received by way of a complaint from an
 outsider, then the purpose of special audit
 is to verify the facts. (14) It is also conveyed to the respondent by Page 52 of 95 HC-NIC Page 52 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 the public that the petitioner has appointed
 several employees and paying huge salary to
 them, though their services were not
 required, resulting into loss to the society.
 One such incident is with reference to
 appointment of Patel Jayanti Geba, though he
 was not qualified, he secured appointment as
 an Officer by producing documents of his
 cousin, namely, Jayanti Jetha. Therefore,
 what salary is being paid to this person and
 in what name and all such other information
 needs to be collected by auditing the
 accounts. (15) In cattle field factory, the loss has
 been increased year after another, and though
 there is noting by the auditor to inquire
 about such loss, it was not properly taken
 care of and therefore, further loss, if any
 debited in the account books needs to be
 verified. (16) Some of the issues are overlapping and
 repeated in the list. However, one more
 surprising incident is with reference to
 payment of advocate fees without deducing the
 TDS and atleast in case of two payments,
 though payment is in the name of advocate, it
 was released in favour of a person, who is
 not advocate at all. Therefore, where such
 amount has been credited by those persons,
 needs to be examined. (17) There is serious allegation regarding
 expenditure for religious functions carried
 out at the residence of the Chairman. noticed by the respondents, amongst which most of
 them are by way of complaint by the public and
 therefore, it is necessary to audit the accounts,
 initially to ascertain that whether in fact there
 is a scam, if at all committed by the petitioner
 or its members. Therefore, petitioner should not
 be afraid of the special audit, because if they
 have not committed any scam, then, there would be
 no proof or detail of such scam as alleged in the
 list of items with the impugned order and
 thereby, there will be no further difficulty to
 the petitioner, but if petitioner is afraid of
 special audit and is attempting to resist it
 vehemently, then, the presumption would be simple
 and clear that there is some evidence of scam in
 the books of accounts and therefore, petitioner
 does not want to be subjected to special audit. 25. Thus only because petitioner apprehends that
 respondents are going to start inquiry as
 contemplated under Section 86 under the pretext
 of special audit as contemplated under Section
 84(5A) , the impugned order cannot be stayed. At
 the most, rights of the petitioner with reference
 to legal dictum on the powers of the respondents
 for the inquiry under Section 86 can be taken
 care of. 3) Issue No. (4) regarding Provisions of Law
 and remedy in case of liability of erring
 persons with reference to Section 93 of the
 Act: 26. It is settled legal position that statute alone
 cannot be made applicable to any case
 irrespective of particular facts and
 circumstances, which is otherwise emerging from
 record. Therefore, if we peruse the factual
 details annexed with the impugned order, it
 becomes clear that though there is a disclosure
 with almost all the issues annexed with the
 impugned order that such issue needs to be
 inquired into, the fact remains that before
 initiating any inquiry contemplated u/s.86 of the
 Act or before passing any order of recovery as
 contemplated u/s.93, the authority certainly
 needs adequate evidence and material on hand for
 taking any steps against any particular
 individual. Therefore, though with all items,
 when it is stated that it needs to be inquired,
 such inquiry during special audit, would be
 limited to confirmation and conclusion of scam
 rather than, confirming the liability of
 particular person. It cannot be ignored that out
 of 28 items listed with impugned order, several
 items are based upon the complaint or intimation
 received by the respondent No.2 and therefore, to
 ascertain its veracity, accounts needs to be Page 55 of 95 HC-NIC Page 55 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 audited to verify that whether there is any
 substance in any complaint or not. It is
 surprising to note that when order is only for
 special audit u/s.84(5 A) of the Act , the
 petitioner is apprehending an inquiry u/s.86 and
 taking shelter of Section 93 submitting that if
 some misappropriation or misdeed is committed by
 any person, the respondent may order to repay or
 restore the money or property with interest.
 Thereby, it seems that probably petitioner is
 aware about the misdeeds and therefore, they do
 not want any further audit or inquiry. However,
 there cannot be an order u/s.93 without inquiry
 and there cannot be a order to fix the liability
 of particular person without having basic and
 prima facie details and evidence regarding
 commission of any illegal act, including scam,
 fraud, misappropriation or otherwise. Therefore,
 if petitioner is afraid of special audit, then,
 prima facie there is reason to believe that they
 are aware about some misdeed at their end and
 therefore, they are trying to save their skin by
 taking disadvantage of delay in judicial process
 by filing different petitions. In that case,
 impugned order cannot be stayed as prayed for
 except to clarify that if at all respondent No.2
 wants to fix the liability of any particular
 person, then, separate inquiry u/s.86 may be
 initiated, where respondent may give reasonable Page 56 of 95 HC-NIC Page 56 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 opportunity to the petitioner and such proposed
 delinquent or any other person to explain that
 how and why action should not be taken against
 them as per the general law or u/s.93 of the Act.
 It is evident that though the elected body of the
 petitioner - Union is duty-bound, not only to
 stop such scam and misdeeds, but also to find out
 the culprits of the same, considering the huge
 loss to the society and therefore, if society is
 objecting to such audit, it seems that elected
 body of the society is probably involved in the
 scam. 27. It is also evident that there may be a hidden
 agenda of the persons who are involved in such
 scam to delay the process of special audit and
 investigation u/s.86 so as to see that evidence
 against them gets destroyed or they can win-over
 or tamper the evidence, which may prove their
 misdeeds. Therefore, such matters are required to
 be dealt with at the earliest when huge money has
 been siphoned away by the office bearers of the
 public institution and when they are trying to
 drag such litigation, by different ways for
 couple of years. Therefore, irrespective of
 outcome of or status of any litigation, the
 petitioner shall maintain all the relevant
 records in proper condition and shall make it
 available to the competent authority for its Page 57 of 95 HC-NIC Page 57 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 inspection. 28. The submission regarding conducting inquiry as
 per Section 86 under the pretext of special audit
 u/s.84 (5A) is also misconceived, inasmuch as the
 impugned order is very much clear that the
 respondent wants to conduct special audit and
 therefore, at the most respondents may be
 directed to restrict themselves from carrying out
 the activities of special audit only, but with a
 permission to initiate appropriate proceedings
 against the wrongdoers in accordance with law. 29. The discussion herein above makes it clear that
 so far as the special audit and inquiry is
 concerned, the respondents being statutory and
 competent authority, in absence of any
 restriction in their powers to order either
 special audit or inquiry, there cannot be any
 grievance against any such order, including
 impugned order. At the most, considering the
 settled legal position, with reference to
 different provisions of law and dictum by the
 competent Court on the issue, the competent
 authority and respondents may take care of such
 provisions and direction in any judgment on the
 subject or issue under consideration. 30. In view of above position, practically, reference Page 58 of 95 HC-NIC Page 58 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 of Section 93 is unwarranted and on the contrary
 it is in favour of the respondents to proceed
 further in completing the audit as per the
 impugned order. The statute empowers the
 respondent No.2 to assess the damages against the
 delinquent and promoters. Thereby, to decide the
 damages, there must be consideration of misdeeds
 and wrong committed by the delinquent or
 promoters etc. At the most, before doing so, the
 respondents may have to call upon the delinquent
 or promoters to explain their stand by extending
 an opportunity to represent their case so as to
 comply with the principles of natural justice. 31. The bare reading of Section 93 of the Act on the
 contrary confirms that any person, who has taken
 any part in the organisation or management of the
 society or any deceased, or past or present
 officer of the society has, within a period of
 five years prior to the date of such audit,
 inquiry, inspection or order for winding up,
 misapplied or retained, or become liable or
 accountable for, any money or property of the
 society, or has been guilty of misfeasance or
 breach of trust in relation to the society, and
 if the Registrar is satisfied i.e. respondent
 No.2 on the basis of the report made by the
 Auditor or the person authorised to make inquiry
 u/s.86 or the person to inspect the books under Page 59 of 95 HC-NIC Page 59 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Sub-section (8) of Sections 84 , 87 or 88 or the
 liquidator u/s.110, the Registrar or a person
 authorised by him in that behalf may inspect the
 conduct of such person or persons and after
 framing charges against such person or persons
 and after giving an opportunity to the person
 concerned and in the case of deceased person, to
 his representative who inherits his estate, to
 answer the charges, make an order requiring him
 to repay or restore the money or property or any
 part thereof, with interest at such rate as the
 Registrar or the person authorised under this
 section may determine, or to contribute such sum
 to the assets of the society by way of
 compensation in regard to the misapplication,
 retention, misfeasance or breach of trust, as he
 may determine. Therefore, on the contrary, an
 audit is must when there is prima facie evidence
 regarding misapplication of the funds of the
 petitioner - Union so as to ascertain that
 whether there is retention and misfeasance of the
 funds also or not. Only requirement is with
 reference to fixing personal liability of any
 person where reasonable opportunity is to be
 extended to answer the charges. Therefore, it
 cannot be said that even audit cannot be
 completed without offering reasonable opportunity
 to answer the charges. It is quite clear and
 obvious that before passing any order either Page 60 of 95 HC-NIC Page 60 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 u/s.86 or u/s.93 of the Act, there is no need to
 extend reasonable opportunity though it is to be
 offered if any order is to be passed u/s.93 of
 the Act. 32. Therefore, reference to Section 93 and
 submission, that when Registrar is empowered to
 repay or restore the money or property or any
 part thereof with interest and costs, and when
 prima facie evidence regarding some misdeeds are
 available, there cannot be a further audit u/s.84 and there cannot be an order u/s.86 or 93 of the
 Act without offering reasonable opportunity to
 the concerned person, is misplaced and has no
 substance to grant any relief as prayed for. On
 the contrary, this goes to show that the
 petitioner does not want respondents to
 investigate and audit their affairs so as to file
 a report based upon which, the order u/ss.86 or
 93 of the Act can be passed. Therefore, it is
 made clear that because of provision of Section
 93 , it cannot be said that respondents are not
 entitled to pass order of report of special audit
 u/s.84(5 A) of the Act . 4) Issue No. (5) regarding extending reasonable
 opportunity to explain with reference to the
 judgment in case of Chimanbhai Dadubhai Desai
 reported in 1971 GLR 31 33. Submission regarding extending an opportunity to
 explain the issue is based upon the dictum of the
 judicial pronouncement. The respondents have
 explained and distinguished the same, that
 reasonable opportunity is envisaged by the
 statute itself only in Section 93 of the Act, and
 not for order u/s.86 there cannot be second
 opinion or determination at this stage on such
 issue. The only differential fact remains is to
 the extent that, at present, the impugned order
 is neither u/s.86 nor u/s.93 of the Act, but it
 is under an order u/s. 84(5A) of the Act for the
 limited purpose of special audit to ascertain
 several issues. Therefore, though it is alleged
 and submitted that an order u/s.84(5A) is only
 with a view to avoid extending reasonable
 opportunity to the petitioner or concerned
 wrongdoers; when statute permits the respondents
 to pass an order for special audit u/s.84(5A),
 such order and direction in the form of impugned
 order cannot be quashed and set-aside and cannot
 be stayed only on apprehension and allegation
 that such order is a result of political rivalry. 34. However, irrespective of any submission, facts Page 62 of 95 HC-NIC Page 62 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 and situation that may emerge on record by such
 judgment and order, when it is made clear that
 though there cannot be a stay against the
 impugned order, the respondents shall follow the
 principles of natural justice before passing any
 order u/s. 93 of the Act. This issue is answered
 accordingly and only because petitioner has
 raised such issue, the impugned order cannot be
 stayed. Similarly, though there will be an
 observation and direction to follow the
 principles of natural justice in the case of
 order u/s.93 of the Act, there cannot be an order
 or direction to afford reasonable opportunity
 with regard to the activities of special audit to
 be carried out as per the impugned order
 regarding special audit. At the most, there may
 be an observation and direction that during the
 course of special audit, respondents shall not
 fix the responsibility and liability of any
 particular individual, since for doing the same,
 they have to afford reasonable opportunity to
 such person to answer the charges against him. 35. An audit is collection of evidence and material
 to prove the allegation against any particular
 person, who is responsible for such misdeeds.
 However, at the cost of repetition, it is again
 made clear that before fixing any liability of
 any person, respondents shall follow the Page 63 of 95 HC-NIC Page 63 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 principles of natural justice by affording
 reasonable opportunity to such person to explain
 his case during inquiry and before passing any
 order u/s.93. Therefore, the grievance of the
 petitioner that respondent does not want to
 extend the opportunity of being heard, would not
 survive. 5) Issue No. (6) regarding Auditor appointed
 are not qualified to act as an Auditor pursuant
 to Rule 38 of the Rules. 36. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner
 referred Rule 36 of the Rules contending that
 only Chartered Accountant within the meaning of
 the Chartered Accountant Act, 1949 , can be
 appointed for such audit since only they are
 qualified for being authorised by the Registrar
 under Sub-section (1) of Section 84 of the Act. 37. However, such submission is misconceived if we
 refer entire Rule 38 properly. The perusal of
 Rule 38 makes it clear that the Chartered
 Accountants are not only qualified for being
 authorised by the Registrar for the purpose, but
 in all, there are three groups of people, who are
 qualified for being authorised for the purpose.
 Amongst them, Chartered Accountant has been
 disclosed in Rule 38(1)(a); whereas Rule 38(1) (b), persons who are holding Government Diploma Page 64 of 95 HC-NIC Page 64 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 in Co-operative Accounts or a Government Diploma
 in Co-operation and Accounting, are also
 qualified to be authorised under Sub-section (1)
 of Section 84. Whereas, under Rule 38(1)(c),
 person who has served as Auditor in the Co-
 operative Department of the State Government, is
 also qualified for being authorised by the
 Registrar under Sub-section(1) of Section 84 of
 the Act. So far as selection of Auditor is
 concerned, the provision of Section 2(4) confirms
 that Certified Auditors means - "a person, who
 possesses the prescribed qualifications and is
 authorised of the affairs by the Registrar as an
 auditor under Section 84; and therefore, there is
 no substance in the submission that only
 Chartered Accountant can audit the accounts, as
 submitted by the petitioner. Therefore, prima
 facie when it becomes clear from bare reading of
 the Rules itself that who can work as auditor,
 there is no substance in such argument by the
 petitioner that only Chartered Accountant can be
 appointed for conducting special audit. 38. Whereas, learned counsel for the petitioner has
 relying upon the list of persons, who are
 identified and disclosed in the impugned order to
 conduct the special audit, submitted that atleast
 amongst the persons listed in the impugned order,
 R. D. Trivedi, N. B. Pandya and Parth M. Shah are Page 65 of 95 HC-NIC Page 65 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 not qualified for being authorised to conduct
 audit u/s.84 and therefore, submitted that the
 impugned order is vitiated because of such
 selection. However, the learned Addl. Advocate
 General has vehemently argued that in absence of
 any specific evidence with the petitioner to
 confirm that above three persons are not
 qualified for being authorised for conducting
 special audit, the petitioner should not object
 the execution of impugned order. It is
 specifically submitted by the respondent that the
 petitioner shall file an affidavit to confirm
 that above three persons/officers are not
 qualified to be authorised for the purpose.
 Whereas, the learned senior advocate for the
 petitioner has fairly contended and submitted
 that it is their information and apprehension,
 otherwise it would be within the special
 knowledge of the respondent only regarding
 qualification of the above persons and therefore,
 it would be appropriate for the respondents to
 file an affidavit disclosing the qualification of
 above-referred persons so as to continue them in
 audit team as per the impugned order. 39. Learned Addl. Advocate General has specifically
 confirmed that in fact, R. D. Trivedi, N. B.
 Pandya and Parth M. Shah are eligible to be in a
 panel of auditors. In view of such categorical Page 66 of 95 HC-NIC Page 66 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 statement, I do not see any reason to interfere
 with or to stay the impugned order. However, it
 is made clear that if at any point of time, it is
 found that any person, is otherwise not qualified
 for the purpose, then, entire audit may get
 vitiated and therefore, irrespective of any other
 facts and circumstances, it would be appropriate
 for the respondents to declare on oath on record
 regarding qualification of above persons to avoid
 any further complications. 1)Issue No. (7) regarding Registrar's power to
 pass impugned order with reference to
 nomination by him of his representative in the
 Committee of the petitioner. 40. It is submitted by learned counsel for the
 petitioner that when Registrar has nominated his
 representative to the Committee of the Society,
 he becomes party to the Committee of the Society
 and activities carried out by such Committee and
 therefore, he cannot be a complainant so also
 witness and party to the proceeding of the
 Committee and therefore, he is not empowered to
 pass any order u/s.84 etc. In support of such
 submission, petitioner is relying upon the
 Government resolution ('G.R.', for short) dated
 15.4.2005 and Notification dated 26.4.2005,
 copies of which are produced at Annexure-R
 Collectively (page 322). With reference to such Page 67 of 95 HC-NIC Page 67 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 G.R. and Notification, it is contended that when
 Government has as back as in the year 2005,
 delegated the powers of the Registrar to the
 Committee constituted for the purpose so as to
 exercise powers of the Registrar u/ss.81 to 94,
 now, the Registrar cannot pass order u/s.86, but
 it is only the Committee, which can pass any such
 order. 41. Considering the difference in the language of the
 G.R. and Notification, whereby the phrase
 "Federal Co-operative Societies" is not disclosed
 in the notification, though it was disclosed in
 the G.R., it is contended that such G.R. and
 Notification is applicable to every kind or type
 of Society and therefore, Registrar cannot pass
 any order u/s.84 (5A) against the petitioner. It
 is really a surprising position when such
 arguments are being advanced on behalf of a well-
 known institution like the present petitioner,
 because if we peruse the notification, it becomes
 clear that the notification is simply conveying
 the execution of resolution dated 15.4.2005,
 which is confirmed in the notification that in
 exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (b) of Section 162 of the Gujarat Co-operative
 Societies Act, 1961 (as amended from time to
 time), the Government delegates the powers to the
 Registrar of Co-operative Societies u/ss.81 to 94 Page 68 of 95 HC-NIC Page 68 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 of the Act to the Committee constituted vide G.R.
 dated 15.4.2005 issued in pursuance to Rule 39(b)
 of the Gujarat Co-operative Society Rules, 1965.
 It becomes clear that, practically, the
 notification is simply endorsing and declaring
 the effectiveness of G.R. dated 15.4.2005 without
 reproducing the contents of such G.R. or any
 other details and therefore, it is to be read
 only to the effect that it confirms execution and
 implementation of the G.R. and not beyond it.
 Therefore, non-disclosure of the phrase "Federal
 Co-operative Societies of the State" in
 notification is not much material. Thereby, it is
 to be understood that the notification also
 confirms that this Committee is constituted only
 for the 'Federal Co-operative Societies' and not
 for all other type of Societies including the
 apex society etc. 42. If we peruse the provision of Rule 39(b), it
 becomes clear that there is a provision regarding
 constitution of Committee for supervision of
 'Federal Co-operative Societies in the State".
 Sub-rule (4) of Rule 39(b) confirms that the
 Committee shall carry out its function subject to
 the supervision and control of the Government in
 Co-operative Department and shall comply with
 such directions as may be given to it from time
 to time by the State Government. The list of Page 69 of 95 HC-NIC Page 69 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Federal Co-operative Societies is disclosed in a
 table at the end of such rule and identified as
 such in Sub-rule(1) itself, wherein there is no
 reference of District Milk Producers Union.
 Thereby, it is contended by the respondents that
 District Co-operative Milk Producers Union cannot
 be termed as Federal Society, but it is only the
 State level society, which is identified as
 'Federal Society' and therefore, provision of
 G.R. and notification are not applicable to the
 petitioner. 43. Both the sides have tried to emphasize
 differently in their favour that pursuant to Rule
 39(b), petitioner is a 'Federal Co-operative
 Society' and against that, petitioner is no a
 'Federal Co-operative Society'. 44. In support of their stand, the petitioner has
 referred the provisions of Section 74C of the Act
 contending that all District Co-operative Milk
 Unions are added in the list and therefore,
 respondent have not authority to pass impugned
 order. 45. However, if we peruse the provisions of Section
 74C , surprisingly, there is no clarity at all
 that which are 'Federal Co-operative Societies'
 though there is disclosure of several Co- operative Societies. The perusal of section on
 the contrary makes it clear that the provision of Section 74C would be applicable to different
 types of societies, including apex societies as
 mentioned in the schedule under the Section. And
 such other apex societies as the State Government
 may by general or special order published as such
 having regard to financial position and share
 capital of such society. Whereas, all those
 societies are apex societies, more particularly
 when apex society is only one of the items in
 such list with a clarity that apex societies,
 which are mentioned in the schedule to such
 section, are subject to provision of this section
 with a list of as many as six other different
 types of societies to which provisions of Section
 74C is though equally applicable to the apex
 society as well as District Co-operative Milk
 Unions, it cannot be said that District Co-
 operative Milk Unions i.e. unions like present
 petitioners are also included as apex societies
 for which in fact a separate schedule is provided
 under the statute. It is undisputed fact that in
 such schedule, there is no reference of the
 District Co-operative Milk Unions, but there is
 reference of state level unions only. Therefore,
 if petitioner is not a apex society as contended
 by the learned counsel and thereby, if it is not
 a 'Federal society' also as defined under the Page 71 of 95 HC-NIC Page 71 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Act, then, provision of G.R. and notification
 under reference would not apply to it. 46. It is contended by learned counsel for the
 petitioner that considering the different
 provision and nature of classification, all apex
 societies are 'Federal Societies', but all
 'federal societies' may not be apex societies and
 that when petitioner is a 'federal society',
 provision of G.R. and notification would be
 applicable to it and thereby, Registrar could not
 pass the order u/s.84(5A) . 47. Whereas, learned Addl. Advocate General has
 submitted that when there is no such
 clarification or classification in provisions of Section 84(5A) and when Section 84(5A) is not
 part of the G.R. dated 15.4.2005 and notification
 dated 26.4.2005, there is no restriction upon the
 respondents to pass any order under Section
 84(5A) of the Act. 48. Irrespective of such unwarranted submissions by
 the petitioner, the fact remains that by G.R.
 dated 15.4.2005 and notification dated 26.4.2005,
 the State Government has simply delegated the
 powers of the Registrar to some Committee, but in
 any case the Government has not curtailed or
 restricted the power of the Registrar in any Page 72 of 95 HC-NIC Page 72 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 manner whatsoever. The Sub-rule (4) of Rule 39(b)
 confirms that such Committee shall carry out its
 functions subject to supervision and control of
 the Government and shall abide by such direction
 as may be given to it from time to time. But, it
 nowhere restricts the power of the principal i.e.
 respondents in any manner whatsoever. It is quite
 clear and obvious that even if powers are
 delegated to subordinate officer, the principal
 officer can certainly exercise the same powers
 and only because of delegation of powers, it
 cannot be said that thereafter, principal does
 not have those powers at all. It is also clear
 from the statute and rules that Committee is
 subordinate to the respondents and therefore, it
 has to function as an agent only and it can never
 become sole authority on the subject. 49. The bare reading of G.R. dated 15.4.2005 and
 notification dated 26.4.2005 makes it clear that
 it nowhere restricts the powers of the respondent
 No.2 even if some powers are delegated to any
 such committee. 50. Under the delegation of authority, the delegator
 or delegation does not surrender his authority
 completely, but only shares certain
 responsibility with the subordinate and delegates
 that much authority, which is necessary to Page 73 of 95 HC-NIC Page 73 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 complete that responsibility. 51. Delegation of authority of power, is a term which
 like the word "delegate" which does not imply a
 parting with powers by the person who grants the
 delegation, but points rather to the conferring
 of an authority to do things which otherwise that
 person would have to do himself as confirmed by
 the Ho'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ishwar
 Singh v. State of Rajasthan , (2005) 2 SCC 334 =
 AIR 2005 SC 773 = 2005 AIR SCW 385 in following
 words: (See Battelley v. Finsbury Borough Council
 (1958 LGR 165). 9. In Corpus Juris Secondum, Volume 26,
 'delegate' has been described as follows : 10. In Collins English Dictionary the word
 'delegate' has been stated to be a person
 who is chosen to vote or make decisions on
 behalf of a group of other people. If you
 delegate duties, responsibilities or power
 to someone, you give them those duties,
 those responsibilities, or that power so
 that they can act on your behalf. If you
 are delegated to do something you are given
 the duty of acting on someone else's behalf
 by making decisions, voting, or doing some
 particular work. 11. In Black's Law Dictionary, 6th Edition,
 the word 'delegate' has been stated to mean
 a person who is appointed, authorized,
 delegated or commissioned to act in the
 stead of another. Transfer of authority
 from one to another. A person to whom
 affairs are committed by another. 'Delegation' according to said dictionary
 means instructing another with a general
 power to act for the good of those who
 depute him; transfer of authority by one
 person to another. 12. According to Venkataramaiya's Law
 Lexicon, 'delegation' as the word generally
 used does not imply a parting with powers
 by the person who grants the delegation, Page 76 of 95 HC-NIC Page 76 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 but points rather to a conferring of an
 authority to do things which otherwise the
 person would have to do himself. 52. The above view is confirmed by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in recent decision in the case of Sidhartha Sarawgi v. Board of Trustees for the
 Port of Kolkata reported in AIR 2015 SC 1271;
 where in it observed as under in para 2 of the
 judgment: 53. Whereas, so far as cited decision is concerned,
 on one hand when petitioner is relying upon the
 judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in
 the case of Rajkot District Co-operative Bank
 Ltd. Vs. R. B. Solanki in Special Civil
 Application No.865 of 1972 dated 15.11.1972 in
 support of his submission that Registrar being
 nominating authority of one Director in the
 Committee of the society like petitioner, he is
 not empowered to pass any order under the statute
 and therefore, Government has by G.R. dated
 15.4.2005 formed a Committee; the learned Addl. fact of such case by pointing out that there is
 factual difference in cited case and case on hand
 inasmuch as in the cited case, Registrar himself
 was deputed and being member of the Rajkot
 District Co-operative Bank and therefore, the
 Division Bench has held that he is not permitted
 to issue orders u/s.86 . However, the situation
 before us is quite different inasmuch as the
 respondent No.2 is neither a member of the
 Committee of the petitioner since he was never
 deputed as such, but he was only the deputing
 authority and some other officer was deputed in
 the Committed of the petitioner and therefore,
 the judgment of Rajkot District Co-operative Bank
 Ltd. (supra) stands distinguished in factual
 details. Therefore, according to Addl. Advocate
 General, there is no harm for the present
 respondent No.2 to pass appropriate order u/ss.84
 or 86 or 93 of the Act. The respondents have on
 the contrary, made it clear in the impugned order
 so also in their submission that, in fact, the
 deputed officer of the department is equally
 liable and responsible for any misdeeds either
 committed by himself or by his consent and
 therefore, respondents are keen to prosecute such
 officer also, if found guilty. Therefore, only
 because of such judgment under reference, it
 cannot be said that respondent No.2 has no
 authority whatsoever to pass the impugned order. petitioner is a federal society and therefore,
 provision of G.R. dated 15.4.2005 would be
 applicable to it. 55. However, as discussed herein above, there is no
 substance in such submission because delegation
 of power does not restrict the power of
 delegating authority. 6) Issue No. (8) regarding malafide of the
 respondent: 56. In background of above referred basic
 information, now let us consider the rival
 submissions and discussion of merits on such
 submissions. 57. When petitioner is complaining about the malafide
 attitude of the respondents, it would be
 appropriate to recall some basic principles of
 such co-operative societies. 58. Co-operative means living, thinking, and working
 together to accomplish a common goal through
 cooperative principles. Consequently, any
 organisation formed by people to work together to
 achieve the objects for which it is formed Page 80 of 95 HC-NIC Page 80 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 through the co-operative principles is called a
 co-operative society. The concept of co-operation
 envisages a group of persons having one or more
 common economic needs, who voluntarily agree to
 pool their resources both human and material and
 use them for mutual benefit, through an
 enterprise managed by them in democratic lines,
 guided by the principle of 'Each for all and all
 for each'. The essentials of co-operative
 societies are that (1) a co-operative is a
 voluntary form of organization (2) it is an
 association of human beings organized based on
 equality (3) its objective is the economic
 interests of its members. The essentials of co-
 operative societies are thus (1) a co-operative
 is an enterprise (2) it is an association of
 users (3) it applies the rules of democracy and
 (4) it is intended to serve both (a) its own
 members and (b) the community as a whole. 59. It is undisputed fact that petitioner is union of
 co-operative milk producers society and is
 governed by the Act, which is enacted with a view
 to provide for the orderly development of the Co-
 operative sector in the State, by organizing the
 Co-operative societies as self-governing
 democratic institutions, to achieve objects of
 equity, social justice and economic development,
 as envisaged in the directive principles of State Page 81 of 95 HC-NIC Page 81 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Policy of the Constitution of India. 60. It is also undisputed fact that petitioner is a
 Union and not an individual personality though it
 is a legal entity and is being managed by the
 elected body, which has to act for the benefit of
 its members and not for any individual or for the
 interest of any group or individuals. It is also
 undisputed fact that for the purpose to safe
 guard such interest of such co-operative
 societies, the Act is providing several
 restrictions and check on elected body and since
 such provisions are not unconstitutional, the
 authorities created by such Act has ample powers
 to Act in accordance with Law and Rules to see
 that basic concept and purpose of the Co-
 Operative activities are neither frustrated nor
 being misused by group of persons based only upon
 some majority of supporters, because ultimately
 society is for the benefit of members and not for
 the benefit of some group. 61. In light of above background, if we peruse
 pleadings in para 2.2 to 2.28, it is nothing but
 history of previous litigation by and against the
 petitioner. Even if petitioner has succeeded in
 all or any of such litigation, it cannot be said
 that it would give a rise or cause to the
 petitioner to get the impugned order quashed Page 82 of 95 HC-NIC Page 82 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 irrespective of their misdeeds, which are listed
 with impugned order. Though petitioner is blaming
 the respondents for not holding the election in
 time, its own admission in para 2.2 on page 3
 confirms that elections were not held in time
 because the issue regarding delimitation was
 pending before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Thus,
 it is very easy to start a blame game, but it
 needs to be proved with malafide intention,
 otherwise everyone has a right to agitate their
 grievances in appropriate manner and delay
 thereafter in particular activity was mainly
 result of the general attitude of litigants to
 delay the judicial proceedings and to get
 disadvantage of delay in judicial system, because
 of huge pendency. However, in such scenario, it
 cannot be said that respondent's intention is
 malafide, when they have passed several orders to
 safeguard the interest of the members of the
 Society and Union. Therefore, I do not see any
 reason to discuss all those details of previous
 litigation so as to conclude that, it amounts to
 malafide on the part of the respondent. 62. Suffice to refer the litigations preferred by the
 petitioner and its pendency, being Special Civil
 Application No: 18836 of 2016 and petition filed
 by erstwhile members of the petitioner being
 Special Civil Application No. 9017 of 2015, which Page 83 of 95 HC-NIC Page 83 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 was challenging the same impugned order and stay
 was operative against impugned order till it was
 withdrawn on 14/3/2017, i.e. after couple of
 years though such members were not entitled to
 raise and continue such issue. Can it be said
 that it was malafide intention of those
 petitioners, and more particularly when it was
 disclosed at the time of active hearing that they
 have no locus standi, present petitioner has come
 forward with a Civil Application No. 3847 of 2017
 to implement it as a party so as to get the order
 of injunction against impugned order continue.
 Therefore, only because respondents have passed
 several orders against the petitioner and only
 because petitioner could succeed in litigation
 against such orders, it cannot be said that the
 respondent has malafide intention. Therefore on
 such ground, there cannot be any interim relief
 in favour of the petitioner. 63. In Indian Railway Construction Company Limited Vs
 Ajay Kumar [(2003) 4 SCC 579], the Apex Court
 observed that burden of establishment of
 malafides is very heavy on the person who alleges
 it. The allegations of malafides are often mode
 easily made, than proved, and the very
 seriousness of such allegations demands proof of
 a higher order of credibility, observed the
 Supreme Court. The principle was stated that the Page 84 of 95 HC-NIC Page 84 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 Court should be slow to draw dubious inferences
 from incompetent facts placed before it by a
 party, particularly when such grave imputations
 are made against the order of an office who has
 high responsibility in the administration. 64. In Mutha Associates Vs State of Maharashtra [(2013) 14 SCC 304], the writ petition was filed
 by APMC in which the charge of malafides was
 leveled against the then Minister, but the Court
 found that the same was without specific
 particulars or details of how the decision taken
 by the Minister was influenced by the developer
 or any other person. The High Court held that the
 Minister's action was under the influence of the
 builder, attributing malafides simply because the
 order was found to be untenable in law. The Apex
 Court observed that no matter the circumstances
 enumerated by the High Court may have given a
 rise to strong suspicion that the Minister acted
 out of extraneous consideration, but the
 suspicion, however strong cannot be proof of the
 charge of malafides. 65. The Supreme Court made following observations by
 endorsing to the contention of the counsel that
 mere fact that an order passed by constitutional
 authority was found to be legally unsustainable,
 did not ipso facto mean that the order was Page 85 of 95 HC-NIC Page 85 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 malafide, by holding "The law regarding pleading
 and proof "malice in fact" or malafides as it is
 in common parlance described is indeed settled by
 a long line of decisions of this Court. The
 decisions broadly recognize the requirement of
 allegations suggesting "malice in fact" to be
 specific and supported by necessary particulars.
 Vague and general averments to the effect that
 the action under review was taken malafide would
 not therefore suffice. Equally well settled is
 the principle that the burden to establish that
 the action under challenge was indeed malafide
 rests heavily upon the person making the charge;
 which is taken as quasi-criminal in nature and
 can lead to adverse consequence for the person
 who is proved to have acted malafide. There is in
 fact a presumption that the public authority
 acted bona fide and in good faith." (Para 42) 7.3
 When the pleadings and ground of malafide are
 examined in light of the aforesaid principles,
 the case on this count is not only put forth in a
 cryptic way but falls far short of the facts and
 the averments on the basis of which malice could
 be shown in respect of the impugned action.
 Merely stating that "there has been a shift in
 political scenario and the ruling party
 pressurising to remove the petitioner as Vice
 Chairman and wants to regaining the power of the
 Market Committee" is not sufficient allegation to Page 86 of 95 HC-NIC Page 86 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 constitute and to conclude that the exercise
 undertaken is mala fide. Nor the averments in
 paragraph 3.10 that officer had been given
 inquiry with regard to employment of staff and he
 gave ex- parte report against the office bearers,
 by itself is not indicative of the action being
 malafide. 66. An action to be considered or treated as malafide
 has a definite parameters of law as could be
 noticed above. The vague and bald assertions of
 the petitioner cannot establish malafide or
 malice in fact and the said contention has to
 miserably fall flat. 67. The political pressure or political motive may
 not be a good argument at all without anything
 else legally sustainable. Nor does it add to a
 plea of malafide by itself. The corridors of
 power always hum with political activities, for;
 they are the corridors of power. Every hummer and
 every political move therefrom do not become
 subject matter of interference by the Court of
 law and the writ court, of course, unless the
 action, decision or conduct is in contravention
 of some statutory provision, is to defeat the law
 or the interference is necessary to secure and
 protect some higher legal principle or
 Constitutional enforcement. Every political Page 87 of 95 HC-NIC Page 87 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 maneuvering, unless amounts to violation of law,
 is no ground in a court of law. 68. As against the above facts and circumstances and
 submissions with discussion of merits on the
 point and issue raised by the petitioner, the
 learned Addl. Advocate General has submitted
 that:- HC-NIC Page 88 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT 5)Rest of the submissions by the Addl. Advocate
 General are taken care of in above discussion
 and hence, not reproduced. Whereas, there is
 substance in submission herein above made by
 learned Addl. Advocate General, and when
 those submissions are accepted, no further
 discussion is required. 69. Whereas, so far as cited decision is concerned,
 on one hand when petitioner is relying upon the
 judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in
 the case of Rajkot District Co-operative Bank
 Ltd. Vs. R. B. Solanki in Special Civil
 Application No.865 of 1972 dated 15.11.1972 in
 support of his submission that Registrar being
 nominating authority of one Director in the
 Committee of the society like petitioner, he is
 not empowered to pass any order under the statute
 and therefore, Government has by G.R. dated
 15.4.2005 formed a Committee; the learned Addl.
 Advocate General has rightly distinguished the
 fact of such case by pointing out that there is
 factual difference in cited case and case on hand
 inasmuch as in the cited case, Registrar himself
 was deputed and being member of the Rajkot
 District Co-operative Bank and therefore, the
 Division Bench has held that he is not permitted
 to issue orders u/s.86 . However, the situation
 before us is quite different inasmuch as the
 respondent No.2 is neither a member of the
 Committee of the petitioner since he was never Page 89 of 95 HC-NIC Page 89 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 deputed as such, but he was only the deputing
 authority and some other officer was deputed in
 the Committed of the petitioner and therefore,
 the judgment of Rajkot District Co-operative Bank
 Ltd. (supra) stands distinguished in factual
 details. Therefore, according to Addl. Advocate
 General, there is no harm for the present
 respondent No.2 to pass appropriate order u/ss.84
 or 86 or 93 of the Act. The respondents have on
 the contrary, made it clear in the impugned order
 so also in their submission that, in fact, the
 deputed officer of the department is equally
 liable and responsible for any misdeeds either
 committed by himself or by his consent and
 therefore, respondents are keen to prosecute such
 officer also, if found guilty. Therefore, only
 because of such judgment under reference, it
 cannot be said that respondent No.2 has no
 authority whatsoever to pass the impugned order. 70. The petitioner is also relying upon the
 provisions of Section 2(9) of the Act, which
 defines "Federal Society" submitting that
 petitioner is a federal society and therefore,
 provision of G.R. dated 15.4.2005 would be
 applicable to it. 71. However, as discussed herein above, there is no
 substance in such submission because delegation Page 90 of 95 HC-NIC Page 90 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 of power does not restrict the power of
 delegating authority. VII. Determination 72. The discussion herein above makes it clear that
 prima facie there is material before the
 respondent No.2, which shows that there is huge
 scam in the administration of the petitioner -
 Society, which is at present visualized to the
 tune of almost Rs.717 Crores and therefore,
 considering the fact that any issue raised in any
 such petition and delay that may occur in
 deciding any such matter, would allow the
 petitioner to destroy the original record or to
 make it unavailable or atleast requisite
 information may be disturbed, which would
 certainly restrict the truth to come out, which
 can be permitted in any case when there is prima
 facie evidence of scam of Rs.717 Crores or more.
 Irrespective of any apprehension, which may be
 taken care of at the relevant time, at initial
 stage, there cannot be a stay against scrutiny of
 such record, which is otherwise very much
 necessary for collecting the evidence regarding
 commission of scam, and such evidence cannot be
 permitted to remain in custody of persons or
 authority against whom there are serious
 allegations and who are probably responsible for Page 91 of 95 HC-NIC Page 91 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 such scam. It cannot be ignored that otherwise
 non-disclosure of record is an offence under the
 Act. For the purpose, reference of Sections
 147(1)(i) and 147(1)(o) so also Section 148(1)(i) and 148(1)(o) is material, which confirms that
 "if any officer or member of a society, in
 possession of information, books, records, fails
 to furnish such information or produce books and
 papers, or give assistance to a person appointed
 or authorised by the State Government or the
 Registrar under Sections 80 , 81 , 84 , 86 , 87 , 99 or 108 or fails to comply with the requirements
 of sub-section(4) of Section 84 , then, such act
 is to be considered as an offence under Section
 147 for which punishment of imprisonment, which
 may extend to six months, or with fine which may
 extend to Rs.500/- or both is prescribed u/s.148 .
 Therefore, granting of injunction as prayed for
 would amount to permitting commission of an act,
 which prescribed as an offence under the statute,
 and therefore, no such stay can be granted. 73. So far as difference between special audit and
 inquiry is concerned, as discussed herein above,
 when those words are having overlapping meaning,
 at the most, at present, when the impugned order
 is disclosing Section 84(5A) only, respondents
 may have to pass separate order for their desire
 to proceed further u/ss.84, 86, 93 etc. but, Page 92 of 95 HC-NIC Page 92 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 thereby, it cannot be said that special audit is
 not permissible and cannot be allowed and
 therefore, there cannot be stay against the
 impugned order and thereby, against the special
 audit. 74. So far as extending reasonable opportunity is
 concerned, the decision in Chimanbhai Dadubhai
 Desai (supra) is in fact not confirming the
 extension of reasonable opportunity during the
 special audit or even during inquiry u/s.86 . It
 simply confirms that when order u/s.86 is
 challenged before the appellate authority, then,
 appellate authority shall follow the principles
 of natural justice. Thereby, though this order is
 not applicable at present, at the most, such
 issue must be considered while deciding the main
 petition finally, but on that count, at present,
 there cannot be an interim relief to stop the
 special audit. 75. So far as qualification of persons who are
 included in the team as per the impugned order
 are concerned, as it has been discussed herein
 above, there is no irregularity or illegality. In
 case of necessity, based upon the qualification
 of any member of either of the team, at the most
 respondents may have to select a proper person.
 However, on such count also, there cannot be a Page 93 of 95 HC-NIC Page 93 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 blanket stay against implementation of impugned
 order for special audit. At this stage, it is to
 be realised that audit of such institute, which
 has a turnover of more than Rs.4000 Crores,
 cannot be carried out by a single person and
 without the help of the support staff, who may
 not be having qualification of certified
 Chartered Accountant as provided under the Act.
 Therefore, if head of the team or majority of the
 members of the team are having qualification as
 Chartered Accountant as per the Act and if one or
 two clerical staff are deputed with them for
 helping them to carry out formal and routine
 clerical activities, then, it cannot be said that
 there is illegality or irregularity in
 constitution of such scheme and therefore, there
 cannot be a blanket stay against special audit,
 which is a statutory activity. 76. So far as authority of the Registrar to pass such
 order is concerned, the discussion herein above
 makes it very much clear that when Registrar is
 empowered under the statute only because of
 delegation of his powers to some Committee, his
 own power does not come to an end in any manner
 so as to pass appropriate orders in accordance
 with law. 77. So far as the alleged malafide is concerned, the Page 94 of 95 HC-NIC Page 94 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6089/2017 JUDGMENT

 overall discussion herein above, more
 particularly, the details of the illegalities in
 accounts and management, which results into prima
 facie evidence regarding scam of Rs.717 Crores,
 makes it clear that irrespective of proof of
 malafide, the order of special audit is certainly
 within the powers of the statutory authority
 being respondents and therefore, it cannot be
 stayed. 78. Discussion herein above makes it clear that the
 word " " used in the impugned order includes
 the meaning of audit and therefore, on such
 count, the impugned order cannot be disturbed.
 The petitioner shall maintain all the relevant
 records in proper condition and shall make it
 available to the competent authority for its
 inspection/audit

 VIII. Conclusion 79. In view of above facts, circumstances and
 discussion, no case is made out for interim
 relief or for any interference in the impugned
 order. Hence, the petition stands dismissed. (S.G. SHAH, J.)
 binoy Page 95 of 95 HC-NIC Page 95 of 95 Created On Sat Apr 01 00:27:02 IST 2017