“Given the lack of clarity here, I think CERT-In may need to change its name to uncertain,” remarked Dr. Joseph Lorenzo Hall, Senior Vice President for a Strong Internet, Internet Society (ISOC), at MediaNama’s round-table discussion on the Impact of India’s New Cybersecurity Directions.

The new cybersecurity directions , issued by the Indian government’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) on April 28, covers aspects related to the timeframe for reporting cybersecurity incidents, synchronisation of system clocks, maintenance of logs, maintenance of KYC and transaction information for crypto exchanges, and maintenance of detailed customer information for VPN, cloud service, data centre providers.

The directions have already been criticised by a long list of stakeholders , and the speakers at the MediaNama round-table discussion held on June 2 didn’t spare them either, but they have also shared their recommendations on how to improve the directions. The speakers include Kumardeep Banerjee, Country Manager, ITI; Richa Mukherjee, Director, Public Policy and Corporate Affairs, PayU; Shivangi Nadkarni, Co-founder and CEO, Arrka; Sreenidhi Srinivasan, Principal Associate, Ikigai Law; Sukanya Thapliyal, Project Officer, Technology and National Security at CCG, NLU, and Suman Kar, CEO, Banbreach, in addition to Dr. Hall. The discussion was moderated by Nikhil Pahwa, Founder and Editor, MediaNama and Sarvesh Mathi, Journalist, MediaNama.

The discussion was held with support from Internet Society, Meta and E2E Networks Limited.

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

Note: Quotes have been slightly edited for clarity and brevity.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event