1.	To Smt nirmala sitharaman (Finance minister) Ministry of finance North block New delhi E. Mail: Appointment.[protected]@gov.in 2. To Sh. Parag Raja (Ceo) Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: parag.[protected]@bharti-axalife.com 3. To Ms ishita mukherjee (Coo) Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: ishita.[protected]@bharti-axalife.com 4. To Nitin Mehta (The head customer service) Bharti axa life insurance company limited Unit no. 1904, 19th floor Parinee crescenzo, 'g' block Bandra kurla complex, bkc road Bandra east, mumbai - 400051 E. Mail: nitin.[protected]@bhartiaxa.com; head.[protected]@bhartiaxa.com, [protected]@bharti-axalife.com, [protected]@bharti-axalife.com, complaints.[protected]@bhartiaxa.com 5. To R.M.Vishakha (Ceo) India First Life Insurance 12th & 13th Floor, North(C) Wing, Tower 4, Nesco IT park, Nesco center, Western Express Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai -400063 E. Mail: vishakha.[protected]@indiafirstlife.com 6. To Atri Chakraborty (Coo) India First Life Insurance 12th & 13th Floor, North(C) Wing, Tower 4, Nesco IT park, Nesco center, Western Express Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai -400063 E. Mail: atri.[protected]@indiafirstlife.com 7. To Praveen Menon (Chief People officer) India First Life Insurance 12th & 13th Floor, North(C) Wing, Tower 4, Nesco IT park, Nesco center, Western Express Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai -400063 E. Mail: praveen.[protected]@indiafirstlife.com 8. To Amit Kumar Chandra (Additional director) Market Wizards Realmart Pvt. Ltd. B-10, 3rd Floor Shankar Garden, Vikas puri, New Delhi-110018 E Mail: info.[protected]@gmail.com. 9. To Himanshu Ahuja (Director) RAP Infosystems Pvt.Ltd. S-459 G/F ROAD 449/481, Greater Kailash, East Delhi, Delhi- 110048 E mail: [protected]@gmail.com, [protected]@rapinfo.co.in Dear sir's/madam, That this is to informed you that i am a peace loving, law abiding citizen of the county and working as a quality engineer in a private company in Faridabad(Haryana) and wanted to renovate my house, for which I was need some funds and was looking a loan in the beginning of 2021. I had applied a loan of Rs 500000/- (Rupees Five lakh only) with hdfc bank, with all requisite formalities. Later I was informed from hdfc bank that my application was not approved. That after rejection of my said application & passing of a months, in Feb-2021 I received a call from. "Mr Dinesh" and he introduce himself as a loan executive of Bajaj Finance having its office at Gurgaon, sec-14, Haryana and told me that he knows I am in need of a loan and my loan application had been rejected by hdfc bank already. He further stated that he can help me to getting a loan amount of rs 5 lakh. I asked him that how? He told me that I need to buy a India first Life Insurance policy of rs 49000/-, and once you bought said life insurance policy then on behalf of said policy he would get approved my loan thru Bajaj finance. He also further stated that it is one time premium policy and all paid amount is fully refundable without any deduction with applicable profit & bonus on the maturity of policy, even in the mid of policy also, if required I asked him to meet personally, but he refused with saying that always he is busy with clients & some time busy in official meeting with some senior executive to taking a decision on various loan application. However your work would be done definitely. He further stated that you don't need to go anywhere to getting insurance policy, all the required document will be submitted on-line & payment of premium will also be done online directly from link sent by India first life insurance on mail. That I thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to pay Rs. 48906/- (Rupees forty eight thousand nine hundred and six only) through axis bank credit card in favour of INDIAFIRST BILLDESK, MUMBAI, IN with reference id [protected] as on 22.02.2021 and bought a life insurance policy in my name as Ravi Kaushik vide policy no 87843215 on dtd. 22/02/2021. (Scan copy of policy enclosed herewith as annexure-a). That after passing of around 4-5 days when I asked him about the status of my loan application, then he told me that loan application will be proceed after submitting copy of policy. After 15 days when I have submitted copy of policy he said that it will take another 10-15 days in processing of loan. After one & half month he call me & said that your loan is sanctioned & will be credited in your account within 3 days. He told me that there are some changes had in the rules of ministry of finance, govt of india, due to which I have to pay GST ( Half of the total GST will be paid by Bajaj finance & rest will be paid by me) on loan amount which will be refunded later by Bajaj finance with loan amount. He said that a policy of rs.45000/- will be done to show in gst which will be refunded later. When I refused for new policy he made me talk with his boss Mr. Chaddha, who said that there is no risk of money at all and I would be benefited to getting bonus on my deposit beside safety of my life. He gave me assurance of loan & also sent proof of loan of other person. That again I thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give him rs 45000/- (Rupees forty five thousand only) through axis bank credit card in favour of Bharti Axa Life insurance, Mumbai, In with reference id [protected] as on 26.03.2021 and bought a life insurance policy in my name as Ravi Kaushik vide policy no[protected] on dtd. 26/03/2021. (Scan copy of policy enclosed herewith as annexure-b). For next more than one month he used to give me false commitment of loan amount credit. In between he also made me talk with many persons saying that he is from bajaj finance accounts & other saying from head office. He used to make many verifications to feel me that process is going on. One day I received a call from Mr. Rajesh saying that he is calling from Main branch of Bajaj finance. He told me that all process of loan are completed but as per New rules of ministry of finance NOC will be required for loan for which a policy of rs.28500 will be done to show in NOC. He said that the amount of NOC is refundable & will be credited in my account with loan amount. Mr. Dinesh and Mr. Chaddha call me many times to give assurance. I refused clearly to buy any new policy in name of any rule. Mr. Dinesh call me and said to meet personally in office. I reach on said place on time. I called to Mr. Dinesh and informed him that I am in the office of Bajaj finance. Then he told me that he was waiting for me since long time and now left the office and now consuming some tea/snacks in nearby area of office and also request me to come outside of bajaj finance office and meet there. That during meeting and after a lot of discussion he induced and allured me that there is no risk of money at all and I would be benefited to getting bonus on my deposit beside safety of my life. He already facilitate and get approved various loans of very huge amount in the uncounted nos and this is safest and fastest way for getting a loan on lower interest. He further stated that loan applications were received after me, got approved, because they bought insurance policy. That again I thus landed in his trap and was led by his sweet talks and conceded to give him rs 28529/- (Rupees twenty eight thousand five hundred & twenty nine only) through axis bank credit card in favour of India First Life insurance, Mumbai, In with reference id [protected] as on 06.05.2021 and bought a life insurance policy in my name as Ravi Kaushik vide policy no 99462224 on dtd. 06/05/2021. (Soft copy of policy enclosed herewith as annexure-c). After passing some days when I call Mr. Dinesh he gave me fake dates of fund transaction. After passing one & half months he informed me that all formalities has been completed and my loan get approved, he also state that after few hours likely 4:00 pm, I would be get another call from bank side and, said bank official would be informed you, that when they would be transfer loan amount into your bank account. That same day evening I received a call from bajaj finance, first he asked me that have you talked with Dinesh? I say yes, then he told me that some financial rules has been changed from April-2021 onward and your loan already approved, you need only to buy a last policy an amount of rs 20000/- (Rupees ninety four thousand only) as soon as you bought insurance policy the loan amount would be credited into your bank account in next 24 hours. He also state that whatever money, I have spent earlier are being invested and used for safe guard of my life and there is nothing to conceal or cheating or commission/omission. And the invested amount is fully refundable with applicable profit/bonus as and when required. I refuse him to buy any policy this time. Now there is no doubt that these insurance policies were issued on the ground of deceit, and forgery with stating that is a necessary component for sanctioned of loan of Rs 5 lakhs by the Mr Dinesh. It is stated that the said Mr. Dinesh misused and abused the official capacity and issued policies by ensuring the premium amount is fully refundable at any time, it is a guarantee to sanctioned a loan of rs 5 lakh. While in fact complainant was neither any need of these policies nor was in a position to pay too much high premiums. It is learnt that there are various complaints pending against Dinesh as well as so called many other agent attached/working with India First Life Insurance and Bharti life axa insurance and some of them have been put on internet on various website clearly indicating prima facie commission of offence of cheating and breach of trust with using same modus operandi. No one can denied involvement of higher official of India First life insurance and Bharti life axa insurance in entire fraud/scam. They are playing with hard earned money of innocent public alike me. Company appears to be indulging in unfair, unethical and deceitful business/operations and the information reflected on company website is false and dubious. Company is extorting money by presenting unrealistic descriptions, showing a rosy picture, false and misleading promises and encourage to buy a higher amount premium policy through its so called agent and paying them a huge commission. That on account of the above said addressee no 1 are requested to take necessary stern action against addressee no 2 - 9. It is humble request to addressee no 2 - 7 for refund of entire amount of above all three policies and take appropriate legal action against addressee no 5 & 6 along with Mr. Dinesh & Mr. Chaddha. It is pertinent to mentioned here that I am going to take legal action & file a complaint in my nearby police station against all guilty persons. Thereafter, when Dinesh refused for loan without getting another policy. I asked him for cancellation of all my policies & get my money back. He told me that he will apply for cancellation & return money back. He gave me dates of money transaction & make me talk with many official ensuring me for money back. Each date given to me get failed. One & half month passed in this process but I didn’t get my money. One day I scold Mr. Dinesh badly & said for police complain & legal action. After that day he never pick my call. Even Mr. Chaddha & Rajesh are not picking my call. In the light of narrated above it is very clear that above all three policies were issued by fraud, false representation & concealment of material facts. Undersign neither was in any need of these policy at the time of its issuance nor in a position to pay its premium.in fact these policy were bought on the ground as a security of getting approved of loan application. He is a victim of a racket which was run through various official of insurance company as well as its corporate agent. Thanking you With regards Ravi Kaushik, S/o Bhoodram Village –Heerapur, P.O.-Mohna, Tehsil –Ballabgarh, Distt.-Faridabad, Haryana-121004. Mobile: [protected], E-Mail: ravi.[protected]@gmail.com Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)