IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, 'B' BENCH
 MUMBAI

 BEFORE: SHRI C.N. PRASAD, JUDICIAL MEMBER
 &
 SHRI M.BALAGANESH, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year :2014-15) ITA No.6322/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year :2016-17)

DCIT-CC-8(1) Vs.
 M/s.Nirshilp Securities Pvt. Ltd.,
Room No.656, 6th Floor 301-308, 3 r d Floor,
Aayakar Bhavan Bhagwati House-A-19
M.K.Road, Mumbai Veera Desai Road
Maharashtra-400 020 Andheri (W)
 Mumbai - 400 058
 Maharashtra
 PAN/GIR No.AABCN4361M
(Appellant) .. (Respondent) ITA No.6318/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year :2014-15)

 DCIT-CC-8(1) Vs.
 M/s.Dolat Investment Ltd.,
 Room No.656, 6th Floor 301-308, 3 r d Floor,
 Aayakar Bhavan Bhagwati House-A-19
 M.K.Road, Mumbai Veera Desai Road
 Maharashtra-400 020 Andheri (W)
 Mumbai - 400 058
 Maharashtra
 PAN/GIR No.AABCN4361M
 (Appellant) .. (Respondent)

 Revenue by Shri Rahul Raman
 Assessee by Shri Rajiv Khandelwal & Shri Vijay
 Mehta
 Date of Hearing 11/05/2021

 Date of Pronouncement 21/06/2021 2 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

 आदे श / O R D E R

PER M. BALAGANESH (A.M): M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

2.1. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record. We find that the assessee had earned exempt income
in the form of dividend to the tune of Rs 2,03,57,802 /- and had made suo
moto disallowance u/s 14A of the Act amounting to Rs 20,35,780/-, being
10% of dividend income , while filing its return of income. The ld AO
recomputed the disallowance u/s 14A of the Act by applying the
computation mechanism provided in Rule 8D(2) of the Rules as under:- 2.2. We find that the ld CITA had deleted the disallowance of interest
made under Rule 8D(2)(ii) of the Rules on the ground that the assessee
company is having sufficient interest free funds in its kitty. With regard
to disallowance of indirect expenses under Rule 8D(2)(iii) of the Rules,
the ld CITA held that since the disallowance already made by the
assessee is much more than Rs 7,25,221/-, no further disallowance is
warranted in the case. It is a fact on record that the assessee is having
sufficient interest free funds in the form of share capital and reserves to
the tune of Rs 218.14 crores as on 31.3.14 and Rs 250.02 crores as on
31.3.13 which is evident from the bare perusal of the financial statements
for the respective period and that the same is much more than the
investments made by the assessee. Hence by applying the ratio laid down
by the Hon‟ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of HDFC Bank Ltd
reported in 366 ITR 505 and of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of 4 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Reliance Industries Ltd reported in 410 ITR 466, we hold that no
disallowance of interest need to be made under Rule 8D(2)(ii) of the
Rules. 2.3. With regard to disallowance under Rule 8D(2)(iii) of the Rules, the ld
AR argued that the disallowance already made by the assessee was much
more than disallowance warranted under third limb of Rule 8D(2) of the
Rules. We are inclined to agree with the same. Hence we direct the ld
AO not to make any disallowance u/s 14A of the Act other than the suo
moto disallowance already made by the assessee in the return of income,
both under normal provisions of the Act as well as in the computation of
book profits u/s 115JB of the Act. Accordingly, the Ground No. 1 raised
by the revenue is dismissed. 3. The Ground Nos. 2 and 3 raised by the revenue are challenging the
deletion of disallowance of business loss on account of NSEL and also
treating the said loss as speculative loss. 3.1. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record. It would be pertinent to understand the modus
operandi of the functioning of National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL) together
with its profile in brief. NSEL is a national-level institutionalised,
electronic, transparent spot trading platform for commodity. It
commenced "Live" trading on October 15, 2008. It was operational in 16
states in India, providing delivery-based spot trading in around 52
commodities. NSEL provided the following functions for trading
opportunities :- 3.1.1. The type of contracts stated above are loosely termed as „paired
contracts‟. 3.2. We find that the assessee is a Private Limited Company engaged in
the business of trading in shares, securities and commodities. We find
that the assessee is a group concern of "DOLAT GROUP", also known as
"SHAH FAMILY". The trading in shares, securities and commodities are
carried out by the broking firms owned by the group namely,Nirpan
Securities Pvt Ltd which is a broking firm registered under SEBI and is
authorised to trade on National Stock Exchange in shares and securities.
Another broking firm namely, Shailesh Shah Securities Pvt Ltd is
authorised to trade on Bombay Stock Exchange. In respect of trading in
commodities, Purvag Commodities Pvt Ltd and Jigar Commodities Pvt Ltd
are authorised to trade on electronic platforms of several exchanges. NSEL is a spot exchange incorporated as company under the
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . The NSEL is a national level,
electronic spot trading platform for commodities with operations in 16
states in India and providing delivery based spot trading in around 52
commodities. It was an exchange for trading in commodities and
carrying out its activities since 2007. NSEL was platform for automated
trading system for conducting spot trading system in commodities. In or
around September 2009, the NSEL for the first time introduced paired
traders contracts, and from time to time the company issued ciruclars 6 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

regarding the commencement of spot trading in a particular commodity.
These circulars would be issued in pairs, one of which would permit a
short settlement cycle such as T+2 and the other of which would permit a
longer settlement cycle such as T+25. The assessee company had
purchased and sold commodities on the exchange platform of NSEL by
trading in the paired trader‟s contracts offered by the NSEL through their
broker M/s Purvag Commodities and Derivatives Pvt ltd, who is registered
as a member with the NSEL with registration no. 10120. The transaction
of purchase and sale of commodities was done by the broker-members on
the electronic exchange platform of the NSEL. As is usually the norm in
any electronic exchange, at the time of trading on the anonymous order
driven trading system on the exchange, the buyer does not know the
seller and in the same way the seller does not know the buyer. At the time
of settlement of the contract, the same was settled through the exchange
platform of the NSEL. Therefore, the assessee entered into the paired
trader‟s contracts without actually knowing at the time of entering into the
contract who the buyer/seller was at the other end. 3.2.1. As per the Bye-laws of the NSEL, all outstanding transactions in
commodities are generally required to be for compulsory delivery at any
one or more delivery points, and/or warehouses approved, certified and
designated by the NSEL as per Bye-Law 4.20(a) thereon. The circulars
issued by the NSEL at the time of commencement of trading in each
commodity contained specific details on the quantity, quality, warehouse,
etc. These Circulars together with the risk management practices set out
by the NSEL in its Bye-laws, confirmed that the warehouses, quantity and
quality of goods were under the complete administration and control of
the NSEL. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

3.2.2. Further, as per the Bye-laws of the NSEL, it acts as the legal
counter party in respect of transactions executed on the NSEL platform in
accordance with its Bye-law No. 5.26. In any event, the NSEL also
guarantees the settlement of net financial obligation. When a client trades
on the anonymous order driven trading system on the NSEL, the buyer
does not know the seller and in the same way the seller does not know
the buyer, and the NSEL guarantees the settlement of trade executed in
compliance with the Bye-laws as per Bye- Law Nos. 7.9.1., 7.9.2 and 9.6.
thereon. 3.2.3. On 31.7.2013, the NSEL issued a circular suspending trading in one
day forward contracts and deferring settlement to 15 days, stating that
there had been „loss of trading interest in the market due to underlying
uncertainties, which led to trade inequilibrium‟. The circular further went
on to wrongly merge the delivery and settlement of the outstanding
contracts and thereby defaulted on the amount owed to the assessee
company. 3.3. METHOD OR MANNER OF SETTLEMENT FOR PAYMENT, EARLY
PAYIN, PAYMENT, RECEIPTSAND BASIS OF CLAIMING LOSS BY THE
ASSESSEE

There are different contracts available for different commodities on the
exchange as follows : receipt of goods was Rs 87,93,32,350/- being cost of goods purchased
and not delivered by NSEL. 3.3.5. It was clear from the SGS audit report that significant stock
shortage has been found in some so-called NSEL „accredited‟ warehouses
relating to certain defaulters. It has been reported that SGS audit team
was not even allowed inside the premises of the majority of the NSEL
warehouses for audit and inspection in certain warehouses relating to
certain defaulters. 3.3.6.The assessee filed a complaint before Economic Offence Wing
(EOW) jointly with other traders explaining the fraud committed by NSEL
by not having the requisite quantity and quality of commodities at its
accredited warehouses. The assessee gave the details of payments made
to NSEL for purchase of commodities and this fact was also mentioned in
the compliant lodged with EOW and craved the indulgence of EOW to
assist in recovery of the dues from NSEL. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

3.3.7. The assessee also served legal notice on the NSEL for winding up of
their Company under Section 434 of the Companies Act, 1956 in the
capacity of one of the creditor. In response thereto, the assessee received
a reply from the advocate of NSEL disowning their responsibility to make
payment to the assessee. These details with supporting evidences were
furnished before the lower authorities and are forming part of the records. 3.3.8. Since the NSEL acts as a counterparty to the transactions executed
on its exchange platform and further stands as a guarantor for settlement
of all the contracts traded on its platform , it was the legal obligation of
the NSEL to settle the contracts. The NSEL has failed to pay the
outstanding amounts under the contracts to the assessee company
through its broker-member , due to which the assessee has suffered loss.
Infact the NSEL has failed to honor / settle the contracts and for which the
NSEL had issued allocation reports depicting the quantity and quality of
specified commodities located in NSEL certified warehouses despite there
being no commodities of stated quantity and quality at such NSEL
certified warehouses. Since the assessee could not receive any sums from
NSEL except the sum of Rs 556 lakhs as stated above, the assessee
company sought to write off the remaining sum as a regular trading loss
arising in the course of its business and claim as deduction in the return of
income. 3.3.9. It was stated that the assessee company has been trading on
platform of NSEL since Asst Year 2011-12 and had been accounting for
transaction as purchase on receipt of details of purchase parties with their
bills and same were substantiated with delivery report which identifies
warehouse where stock is delivered by NSEL who hold on behalf of
assessee. Thereafter on receipt of sale instructions from NSEL, sale bill is
prepared for buyer and papers for early pay-in / delivery are submitted to 14 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

effect delivery and receive payment on time which generally after 30 days
depending upon the nature of contract. This pattern was followed by the
assessee month after month and year after year and assessee was in
genuine belief that transactions referred above will be honored by NSEL in
normal course of business. But assessee was taken by surprise when NSEL
announced suspension of trade and thereafter it tried to merge the
settlements. Assessee along with other similar traders , brokers of NSEL,
so called investors in NSEL had gathered and formed a group to pursue
the matter with NSEL but no physical stock stated to have been delivered
to assessee and others was not traceable at warehouses which means
that stock purchased has been lost and cost paid for the same has been
reduced to zero. The non -availability of requisite stocks at NSEL
warehouses was confirmed by SGS audit report. The assessee had
accounted for stock on date of purchase for which delivery allocation
report was received and when same was not found up till balance sheet
date and in view of non-cooperation of NSEL, the stock purchased has
been valued at NIL while preparing trading results of the year though
amount received from NSEL in lieu of claim has been separately credited
in books of accounts as operating income and offered to tax. Thus
assessee suffered loss of an amount of Rs 87,93,32,350/- equal to cost of
goods purchased and lost less amount recovered from NSEL. 4. This loss was sought to be disallowed by the ld AO on the following
grounds :- M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., b) The transactions of purchase and sale through NSEL are speculative in
nature. It is clear that there was no actual delivery of goods, the fact
reiterated in the Hon‟ble High Court order no. 1263 of 2014. The Act states that any transactions without actual delivery of goods is speculative
in nature. Speculation is defined in section 43(5) of the Act and sub-
section (e) thereon deals with treatment of commodity derivatives. As
per Rule 6DDD of the Income Tax Rules, National Spot Exchange Limited
is not a recognised stock exchange and thus the transaction carried out
are speculative transactions. Thus as per section 73(2) of the Act, any
losses carried out in a speculation business will be set off with speculation
gains only of that year or it will be carried forward for the subsequent 4
assessment years. Thus the losses on transaction on NSEL will be
speculation in nature and the same cannot be set off with normal business
income. c) The assessee has received the delivery allocation report from NSEL
which could be considered as actual delivery of commodities and hence
assessee is not justified in claiming the loss on account of irrecoverability
of dues from NSEL. d) The amounts paid to NSEL for purchase of commodities is to be
construed as an investment and hence the loss arising therefrom is to be
construed as capital loss and hence not allowable as deduction. e) The assessee had purchased castor oil, paddy and cotton wash seed oil
which means that assessee has recognised the purchase as genuine. It is
not in dispute that the transactions were actually paid by the assessee and
the same is fictitious in nature. The Hon‟ble Bombay High Court had ruled
and given the finding that the transactions were not genuine and fictitious 16 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

in the case of bail application of Shri Jignesh Shah, main promoter of
NSEL. f) The Hon‟ble Bombay High Court observed that the broker and clients of
NSE were in knowledge about the true nature of the transactions. Thus,
there is no doubt that assessee was aware of the true nature of the
transactions as fictitious. Thus the treatment of both purchases and sales
are to be treated as identical. Either both purchase and sales are fictitious
or both are real and genuine. g) The closing stock of commodities cannot be valued at NIL. h) The onus was on the assessee to prove that sale was not reversed.
The assessee had paid VATR on 5.7.2013 and did not know of the scam
till 31.7.2013. Thus for 25 days, the assessee was treating the
transaction as sale. Thereafter while finalising the books, it has reversed
the sale, This is clear from qualitative chart of stock submitted as part of
audit report. The same has been noted by the auditor who has gone
through the basic primary documents like sale ledger, stock ledger etc and
gave his finding on the audit report. The assessee did not dispute the
findings of the auditors. The assessee has deliberately reversed the sale
while finalising the accounts so that the stock can be taken as Nil. If
assessee had credited sale, then the claim of assessee would have come
to writing off receivables from NSEL. Thus the claim of assessee would
have been allowability of bad debts instead of valuation of closing stock.
It is established that assessee had receivables from NSEL. The claim of
receivable from NSEL deserved to be not allowed as bad debts as
assessee had itself reversed the sales. The ld AO mentioned that
assessee had explained that both sale and purchase contracts are entered
on same date. The purchase settlement is done in T+2 (or 3 or 5) and 17 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

sale in T+25 (or 36 or 30) days. Thus the bye laws of NSEL mandates
that both sale and purchase has to be booked simultaneously on same
date with settlement at future date. In this regard, the assessee
submitted that sale is recognised after the name of the party to whom it is
sold is conveyed by NSEL to assessee. i) The scam came to knowledge only on 31.7.2013. If assessee contention
is correct then only sales after 24.7.2013 should not have been
recognised. Because assessee submitted that sales party name is received
from NSEL within 7 days of booking. Further assessee could not produce
any evidence of the fact that purchase of 3190 tons of castor oil , 10200
tons of cotton seed wash oil and 12000 tons of paddy was made before
24.7.2013. If the dates of sauda of these items are before 24.7.2013, then
the name of sales party must have been communicated to the assessee
before 31.7.2013. Thus there is no reason to treat these sales separately
by the assessee. The assessee could not produce the date in which sale is
recognised and compare it with date when sales party name is received
by NSEL. Thus the contention of the assessee as to when sale is
recognised could not be established. Further it is seen from VAT ledger
submitted that the last VAT for castor oil is paid on 5.7.2013 which is 25
days before 31.7.2013. Hence the assessee was having name of parties to
whom sales were made by NSEL. Assesseee is deliberately trying to
present incorrect facts that it has no information for sales parties so that it
can rationalise its non-recording of sales. Thus in essence, the assessee
has recorded these sales and reversed them and treated the stock at Nil. 4.1. With the aforesaid observations, the ld AO disallowed the loss on
account of commodity transactions with NSEL as not forming part of 18 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

books of accounts , both under normal provisions of the Act as well as in
the computation of book profits u/s 115JB of the Act. 5. We find that the ld CIT(A) deleted the disallowance of loss by placing
reliance on the decision rendered by him in the case of group concern of
the assessee namely,Dolat Investments Limited for Assessment Year
2014-15where exactly similar disallowance was made by the ld AO. 6. The ld DR vehemently argued by placing heavy reliance on the
assessment order. The gist of the various arguments made by the ld DR
could be summarised as under:- M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., c) The assessee had dealt in odd kinds of commodities which had
allegedly resulted in loss to the assessee. These are not regular
commodities that could be traded by any prudent businessman. Hence
the alleged loss that had arose to the assessee would only be speculative
loss. d) When other parties had received some monies from NSEL in
subsequent years, how come the assessee had not received any monies
from NSEL. e) The assessee had actually not paid Rs 87 crores towards the cost of
commodities purchased (but allegedly not delivered) to NSEL through its
broker. Hence the assessee would not be entitled for any loss as
deduction. 7. We find that the assessee had shown inventories held as stock in trade
comprising of shares & securities and Commodities , both valued at the
lower of cost or market value under the head 'Current Assets' in its
Balance Sheet as on 31.3.2014. The assessee had duly shown purchase
of traded goods comprising of castor oil, caster seed, cotton, cotton oil
cake, cotton seed wash oil, gold, H R coil, paddy, raw wool, rubber,
refined soya oil, silver, soyabean and steel totalling to Rs
1725,81,18,744.73 in its profit and loss account. Similarly, it had shown
trading sales of products to the tune of Rs 1724,44,35,550.81 together
with other operating revenue in the form of Mark to Market (MTM) on
Hedged Commodities Futures amounting to Rs 14,77,36,523.33 and
receipts from NSEL amounting to Rs 5,56,00,000.68 under the head
'Revenue from Operations' in its profit and loss account for the year ended
31.3.2014. The assessee had also disclosed the movement in opening
and closing stock of traded goods as 'Changes in inventories of traded 20 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

goods' amounting to Rs 87,12,24,639.87 in its profit and loss account for
the year ended 31.3.2014. 7.1. We find that the assessee in the significant accounting policies and
notes to financial statements for the year ended 31.3.2014, had
specifically stated under the head 'Exceptional Items' as under:- Further as company has paid Rs 8793.87 lakh as cost of purchases for which no
 stock is received by the company as referred above, hence the said cost is written
 off as business loss while determining stock in trade as on 31.3.2014. Company
 received a sum of Rs 556.00 Lakhs towards disputed transaction on platform of
 NSEL and same is offered as income and shown under income from operation. (emphasis supplied by us)

 Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police is investigating the unsettled
 transactions of NSEL on the basis of complaint filed by NSEL Investors Forum of
 which Company's Broker is a member and said forum has also filed writ petition
 in the Bombay High Court. 7.2. We find that the Statutory Auditors in their Statutory Audit Report
had categorically stated that the company is maintaining proper records
of inventory (being shares, securities and commodities). Discrepancies
noted on physical verification of inventories were not material, except for
transactions on National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL) platform. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

 7.3. We find that the assessee had given the quantitative details of traded
 goods in Annexure 7 to the Form 3CD (Tax Audit Report) for the Asst
 Year 2014-15 which is already forming part of the records of the lower
 authorities. 7.4. We find that the assessee had furnished the complete details of
 Commodity Transactions with quantity and value wise details along with
 payment of Commodity Transaction Tax (CTT) before the ld AO at the
 time of assessment proceedings. The relevant documents together with
 the Contract Notes and the details of trading in Commodities in which the
 assessee incurred losses were also duly highlighted and furnished before
 the lower authorities. These facts are not in dispute before us. 7.4.1. The ld AR before us at the time of hearing explained the concept of
 Paired Contracts in a diagrammatical representation as below:- This trading transaction was admittedly done on NSEL platform through
SEBI registered broker. The assessee was given only warehouse receipt,
which is supposed to prove that the commodities are lying in the NSEL
accredited warehouses. But the SGS Audit Report (independent auditor)
had pointed out that the requisite stocks were not available in the NSEL
accredited warehouses. Hence it could be safely concluded that the
assessee had not got back any commodities for the actual payments
made by it to NSEL through its registered broker. These payments were
actually made by the assessee for cost of commodities purchased (but not
delivered). We find that the assessee has been consistently showing the
trading transactions of commodities in NSEL platform from Asst Year
2012-13 onwards under the head „income from business‟ only , which has
been accepted by the revenue in the past. Even during the year under
consideration, we find that the ld AO had accepted the other trading
transactions of commodities in NSEL platform as business income. Then
how the loss arising on account of irrecoverable purchase cost of
commodities on impugned specified contracts alone become speculative
in nature. We are unable to persuade ourselves to accept to this
proposition of the ld DR. Only when the commodities are actually
delivered to the assessee for the payments made by the assessee to
NSEL, the assessee would in turn be able to sell the same again in NSEL
platform through registered brokers. In the instant case, the non-delivery 23 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

of the commodities to the assessee by the NSEL had been proved beyond
doubt as is evident from the (i) SGS Audit Report not being allowed to
inspect certain NSEL accredited warehouses and wherever they had been
allowed, they found huge shortage of stocks lying in warehouses ; (ii)
assessee lodging complaint with EOW along with other traders for
recovery of dues from NSEL ; (iii) NSEL initially issuing a press release on
4.8.2013 that it has got post dated cheques of Rs 4900 crores to honor its
commitments to various traders ; (iv) assessee along with other traders
forming an Investors Forum to fight the case against NSEL for recovery of
the dues ; and (v) NSEL itself trying to sell the commodities lying in its
warehouses and making payments to the assessee and other traders
during the year and also in subsequent years. It is a fact on record that
the assessee had recovered the following sums from NSEL and had
offered the same as its business income :- b) The ld CIT(A) in para 20 notes that the assessee company had filed
the copies of the contract notes issued by the broker namely Purvag
Commodities and Derivatives Pvt. Ltd. along with the corresponding
Delivery Allocation Reports („DAR‟) issued by the NSEL. The contract
notes issued by the broker gives the complete details of the order
number, trade number, contract description, quality, unit, price, 25 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

brokerage and amount. These transactions mentioned in the contract
notes have been duly executed on the online exchange platform of NSEL.
A perusal of the contract notes and the Delivery Allocation Reports reveals
that the purchase and sale transaction of the assesseecompany cannot be
held to be non-genuine / bogus by any stretch of imagination. The ld
CIT(A) further goes on to discuss the DAR issued by the NSEL and holds
that its contents clearly shows that NSEL had duly informed the
assessee company that for the purchases made by it, the ownership of
the commodities in the form of the warehouse receipts is with the
assessee company. However, such warehouse receipts were in the
custody of NSEL. This clearly shows that the assessee company had
made a valid purchase transaction on the Exchange and further, the
Exchange had confirmed the same by giving the Delivery Allocation
Report of the said commodities. c) In para 21, the ld CIT(A) discusses the letter issued by the broker
namely, Purvag Commodities and Derivatives Pvt. Ltd. to the assessee
company dated 20.08.2013, wherein the assessee company had been
informed that the payment towards the sales transaction has not been
received from NSEL and hence, the receivable amounting to Rs.
43,12,65,350/- may be treated as its business loss. He further observes
that the above letter clearly states that NSEL had stopped paying
the funds relating to the disputed paired trades, as the counter
parties had defaulted in their payment obligation. M/s. Purvag
Commodities and Derivatives Pvt. Ltd. had further, stated that in
these circumstances they are unable to meet the pay-out
obligation to the assessee company. The said letter also suggests
the assessee company to institute legal remedies available to them
at the appropriate forums. The ld CIT(A) further observes that the 26 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Broker had further confirmed that full payment had been made by
the assessee company to them on account of the purchase
transactions worth Rs. 42,62,16,780/-. It had also been confirmed
by the Broker that the amount paid by the assessee company
towards the disputed purchases have been fully remitted by them
to NSEL, on behalf of the assessee. Further, it had been informed
by the Broker that the corresponding unsettled amount of sale
receivable of Rs. 43,12,65,350/- could not be paid to the assessee
company, as the same had not been received from NSEL. The ld
CIT(A) then discusses another letter dated 25.09.2013 issued by
the broker wherein the assessee company had been informed that
they have just acted as a broker and intermediary. Hence, are not
responsible for obtaining the goods for them or reimburse the
same. It had been clearly intimated by the Broker that there are no
goods lying at NSEL accredited warehouse, corresponding to the
Delivery Allocation Report sent to the assessee company for the
purchases of goods. Further, M/s. Purvag Commodities and
Derivatives Pvt. Ltd. had also advised the assessee company that
the non-recovery of goods may be treated as a business loss by
them. Thus the ld CIT(A) holds that the Broker had totally
abdicated its responsibility for the said loss and advised the
assessee company to institute legal remedies available against
NSEL or any other entity, for the breach of contract. d) In para 22 of the order, the ld CIT(A) discusses the Statutory
Winding Up Notice dated 27.11.2013 given to NSEL, which besides
giving a winding up notice, also refers to the amount of Rs.
41,35,51,452/- due and payable by NSEL as on 21.11.2013. Thus, it
needs to be appreciated that the assessee company had made all efforts 27 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

to recover its money lost in the scam. The ld CIT(A) also discusses the
reply sent by NSEL in response to the Statutory Winding Up notice given
by the assessee company. A perusal of the said reply reveals that the
NSEL has clearly stated that they are not bound to pay the outstanding
balance to the assessee company, as it is not a trading member of NSEL.
Thus, NSEL had totally brushed off the claim made by the assessee
company on the ground that they have not contracted with them. The
reply of NSEL clearly states that they have contractual obligation towards
the members only and not towards their clients. e) In para 23, the ld CIT(A) observes that assessee company had made
every effort to recover the disputed amount resulting from the
disputed transactions on NSEL. f) In para 24, the ld CIT(A) notes that the assessee company had
voluntarily offered for taxation on receipt basis in subsequent years,
whatever had been recovered from the said amount of loss - the same is
accepted by the ld AO as business income. g) In para 25, the ldCIT(A) discusses the reliance of the ld AO on financial
capability of NSEL and their legal responsibility to hold that the business
loss of the assessee company is still recoverable and hence, the claim of
business loss is premature in nature. The ldCIT(A) observes that the claim
of the ld AO that NSEL guarantees the settlement of net financial
obligations does not hold any ground, as there is no material on record to
show that NSEL had come forward to own up the financial liability of the
clients, who had suffered from the fraud. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., h) In para 26, the ld CIT(A) discusses the circular dated 29.7.2013 issued
by the NSEL, wherein the settlement schedule of all the
contractswithdeliveryschedulesmorethanT+10dayshadbeenmodifie
dto T+10days - this circular hinted towards the scam. Further, in
para 26.1 to 26.3, the ld CIT(A) discusses the circular on reduced
settlement dated 04.08.2013, which clearly shows that NSEL had
refused to own up the liability arising out of the scam. Its main
argument & contention before the Hon‟ble High Court were - it is not central counterparty; - if it is a counterparty then such guarantee is limited to the
 Settlement Guarantee Fund; - that NSEL has the authority to withdraw itself as a
 counterparty from the transactions which are financial
 transactions or structured deals or transactions designed to
 defraud the Settlement Guarantee Fund. i) In para 27, the ld CIT(A) discusses the financial strength of the NSEL
and how NSEL does not have the requisite capacity to pay the huge
liability. The ld CIT(A), then, counters the argument of the ld AO by
stating that the ld AO had completely failed to take note of the fact that
NSEL doesn‟t have the financial capacity to pay for the liabilities arising
out of the scam. Not only this, NSEL gone further ahead to clearly state in
its Audited Financial Accounts that they are not liable to pay the amount
of Rs. 4905.60 Crore to the non-defaulting members. In these facts and
circumstances, the ldAO had wrongly concluded that the amount payable
to the assessee company by NSEL is recoverable and the same is
guaranteed by NSEL. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., j) In para 28, the ldCIT(A) discusses the fact that how NSEL Scam had
thrived on the fact that the Warehousing Receipts were not backed by
actual goods in the godowns / delivery centres / warehouses. However,
he further states that the NSEL had totally abdicated its responsibility and
liability about the non-availability of the physical goods against the
various Warehousing Receipts. The stand taken by NSEL is that there is
no liability of NSEL regarding the commodities lying in the designated
delivery centres/warehouses relating to transactions carried out by
members on the Exchange Platform. Thus, the ldCIT(A) holds that the ld
AO had grossly erred in holding that the NSEL had the legal as well
financial responsibility for making good the business loss of the
assesseecompany, arising out of the missing goods. k) In para 29, the ldCIT(A) counters the argument of the ld AO that the
Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) of NSEL, also guarantees the
settlement of net financial obligation. The ldCIT(A) observes that there is
only Cash Margin amounting to Rs. 37,46,08,831/-, which is available in
the SGF-MC account. This amount lying in SGF is too meagre to cater to
the financial liability of more than Rs. 5600 Crore arising out of the Scam.
Further, the notes to accounts of NSEL also makes it clear that the Margin
money is refundable to the respective member and is only subject to
adjustment of the exposure of that particular member. The above
discussion makes it clear that nothing is available from the corpus of SGF,
which can be paid to the assessee company or the other clients, who had
lost their money in the scam. The ld CIT(A) thus, states that the ld AO
had talked about the guarantee provided by the NSEL in his assessment
order, but on the contrary the NSEL had clearly stated that though it had
taken several legal, regulatory and commercial measures, but it is not 30 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

sure as to how much money and by when it will be recovered, as the
matter is still sub-judice. Accordingly, the ldCIT(A) holds that the ld AO
had again wrongly held that the business loss of the assessee is fully
guaranteed and covered by the Settlement Guarantee Fund. l) In para 30, the ld CIT(A) counters the argument of the ld AO that the
properties of NSEL and associate companies are under attachment and
since the seized assets are yet to be realized, the amount of loss incurred
by the assessee cannot be treated as irrecoverable. The ldCIT(A) holds
that the ld AO had erred in holding that the business loss is recoverable,
ignoring the vital fact that no worthwhile assets of NSEL are under
attachment and the assets of the holding company are too meagre to
make good of the money lost in the scam. m) In para 31, the ldCIT(A) discusses the report of SGS (Auditors)
wherein the physical inspection by SGS of 16 warehouses had revealed
that as against stock of Rs. 2389.36 crores, stock worth only Rs. 358
crores was available. SGS had also reported that they were physically
prevented from inspecting 22 warehouses, although they had been
engaged by NSEL to inspect its own stock supposed to have been lying in
its own warehouses. As such, the ldCIT(A) observes that the
assesseecompany, though had duly made the payments for purchase of
the commodities but the goods/commodities were not found at certified
warehouses / centres, the assessee company had rightly quantified the
loss at Rs. 42,61,89,780/-, being the cost of goods purchased. n) In para 32, the ld CIT(A) observes that the entries passed by the
assessee company are in accordance with the Accounting Standards. He 31 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

counters the observation of the ld AO that the value of stock not found at
warehouse of NSEL cannot be valued at NIL, though the fact is that the
stock was physically not available or traceable, even as per the SGS Audit
Report. The ld CIT(A) holds that the ld AO failed to appreciate that the
assessee company follows cost or market value whichever is less, as the
method of valuation of stock in respect of commodities. The declaration in
the Significant Accounting Policies at Note 2.7 clearly states that
commodities stock held as stock-in-trade under current assets are valued
at cost or market value, whichever is lower on a FIFO basis. He further,
notes that when a theft, burglary etc. occurs, the goods are written off by
valuing them at Rs. NIL, if there is no chance of any recovery of goods.
In the present case, SGS Audit Report had clearly revealed that goods
purchased by the assessee company had not been found in the
designated warehouses of NSEL. Further, the assessee company had
already made the payments for such purchases. In these facts and
circumstances, the closing stock had been rightly valued at Rs. Nil by the
assessee company. The ld CIT(A) then observes that the assessee
company had correctly followed the Accounting Standard - 9 and holds
that the Accounting Policy followed by the assessee company, the
contract for sale cannot be recognized as revenue, since the goods
cannot be transferred to the buyer on a date, when it was supposed to
have been transferred. This was because of the fact that there was no
stock of goods in the warehouse of NSEL. The sale transactions therefore
do not qualify to be accounted for as revenue, as per the Accounting
Standard published by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Hence,
the sale transaction even though booked in the accounts was required to
be reversed, as revenue cannot be recognized when the property in
goods are not and cannot be transferred to the buyer. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., o) In para 33, the ld CIT(A) discusses the classification of loss as
speculation loss by the ld AO by virtue of section 43(5) r.w.s. 73(2) of the
Act. He observes that as per the definition of „speculative transaction‟
under section 43(5) , only those transactions are covered under it,
which arises from the contracts of purchase or sale of good sand
are periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by actual
delivery. Thus, „settlement‟ of a contract is sine qua non before
treating any transaction to be speculative in nature. He further,
holds that the impugned contracts for purchase & sale of
commodities that took place on floor of the NSEL platform and
wherefrom loss had arisen to the assessee were not „settled‟ at all.
Both the purchase and sale trades of the paired contract could not
be executed, as the underlying asset viz. the goods lying in the
accredited warehouse / centres were found to be missing. Hence,
there was a breach of contracts rather than settlement of contracts
in the present case at hand. Accordingly, if there is no settlement
of the purchase and sale contracts, then there cannot be any
speculative transaction, as per the provisions of section 43(5) of
the Act. For this proposition, he relies on the decision of Supreme
Court in the case of Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shantilal (P)
Ltd reported in 144 ITR 57 (SC), wherein it was observed that a
contract can be settled if, instead of effecting the delivery or
transfer of the commodity envisaged by the contract, the promisee,
in terms of section 63 of the Contract Act, accepts instead of it any
satisfaction which he thinks fit. Where, instead of such performance
or acceptance, the parties raise a dispute and no agreement can be
reached for a discharge of the contract, there is a breach of the
contract, and by virtue of section 73 of the Contract Act, the party
suffering by such breach becomes entitled to receive from the party 33 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

who broke the contract, compensation for any loss or damage
caused to him thereby. There is no reason why the sense conveyed
by the law relating to contracts should not be imported into the
definition of 'speculative transaction' in section 43(5) of the Act.
The award of damages for breach of a contract is not the same
thing as a party to the contract accepting satisfaction of the
contract otherwise than in accordance with the original term
thereof. It may be that in a general sense the layman would
understand that the contract must be regarded as settled when
damages are paid by way of compensation for its breach. What is
really settled by the award of such damages and their acceptance
by the aggrieved party is the dispute between the parties. Section
43(5) speaks of a settlement of the contract, and, consequently,
where there is a breach of the contract resulting in a dispute
between the parties and culminating in award of damages as
compensation by an arbitration award, the transaction cannot be
treated as a 'speculative transaction' within the meaning of section
43(5) of the Act. Thus, the ld CIT(A) holds that a contract which is
not performed or is breached cannot be covered under the
provisions of Section 43(5) of the Act relating to speculative
transactions. The ld CIT(A) further, makes a mention of the fact
that delivery allocation report is being issued by the NSEL clearly
proves that both the purchaser and the seller, takes and gives
delivery, respectively. Hence, the paired trades in which the
assessee is dealing cannot be treated as speculative in nature, as
they are delivery based. The ld CIT(A) further, notes that there
were other transactions of purchase and sale of commodities
through NSEL of paired trades, which have been accepted by the ld
AO and the income therefrom had also been correctly accepted as 34 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

non-speculative business income. It is worthy to note that the
trading on the NSEL platform in commodity in the case of the
assessee company were also accepted for the past years as non-
speculative in nature, since A.Y. 2012-13.The assessee has offered
subsequent recoveries from NSEL as business income which has been
accepted by the revenue as such. Then how the loss arising out of
irrecoverability of cost of commodities purchased which were not delivered
at all, would alone become speculative loss. Hence the argument of the ld
DR on this account deserve to be dismissed. p) In para 34, the ld CIT(A) dismisses the observations of the ld
AO that impugned transactions are derivative trades as " too far-
fetched and needs to be rejected outrightly". He holds that since
the mandatory condition stipulated in the main section 43(5) of the
Act is not satisfied, there is no occasion before the ld AO to go to the
proviso to the main section and read between the lines the exclusions
contained in clause (a) to(e) thereon. q) In para 35, the ld CIT(A) has held that reliance of the ld AO on
Judgment of the Hon‟ble Jurisdictional High Court on the Bail application
of Shri Jignesh Shah, Promoter Director of NSEL is misplaced inasmuch as
Bail application of Shri Jignesh Shah is on an entirely different issue,
though it had emanated from the same NSEL Scam. r) In para 36, the ldCIT(A) observes that the claim of the business loss by
the assesseecompany are supported by various documents - in the case
of the assessee which are already listed hereinabove. s) In para 37, the ldCIT(A) holds that the business loss as claimed by the
assessee is nothing but a loss due to embezzlement and should be 35 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

allowed under the Act. For this, he relies on Circular No. 35-D (XL-VII-20)
[F.No.10/48/75-IT(A- 1)], dated 24-11-1965 of the CBDT. He also states
that the impugned loss has been incurred in the regular course of
business. Further, he relies on various decisions of Hon‟ble Supreme Court
and various Hon‟ble High Courts and concludes that the business loss
incurred by the assessee company, as a result of the NSEL Scam
on the transactions executed on the Exchange Platform is
allowable, as the same had been incurred in the normal course of
business. t) In para 38, the ld CIT(A) refutes the arguments of the ld AO that the
transactions executed by the assessee company are non-genuine / bogus
by stating that all the purchase and sale transactions of the assessee
company had been conducted online on the exchange platform of
NSEL. Trading on the electronic exchange platform is anonymous
order driven trading system i.e. the buyer does not know the
seller in the same way the seller does not know the buyer, and
that the ld AO has not brought any adverse material on record to
show that the assessee company or its broker have manipulated
the online trading system. The ld CIT(A) also places reliance on
various decisions of Tribunals and a decision of Hon‟ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT v. Jamna Devi Agarwal reported in 328 ITR 656 (Bom). u) In para 39, the ld CIT(A) states that the claim of the ld AO is based on
conjectures, surmises, assumptions and presumptions only. He further,
relies on various decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court and various Hon‟ble
High Courts wherein it was held that no addition can be made without 36 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

bringing material evidence on record and that a „suspicion‟ however
strong cannot substitute the place of legal proof. v) In para 40, the ld CIT(A) holds that the Revenue cannot place itself in
the armchair of a businessman. He observed that it is a material fact
on record that NSEL could not deliver the goods after taking the
purchase consideration and accordingly, the management decided
to recognize the loss suffered in the normal course of its business.
It is settled law that claim for expenses and losses are to be
viewed from the businessman‟s perspective and so long they are
for the purpose of the business or incidental to carrying on
business, the same are to be allowed. The ld AO cannot sit in chair
of the businessman and decide how and when loss is to be
claimed, when the fact of incurring the loss in the normal course of
the business is not doubted. For this, he placed reliance on the
decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of S A Builders
reported in 288 ITR 1(SC) and Hon‟ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Dalmia Cement reported in 254 ITR 377 (Del). w) In para 41, the ldCIT(A) relies on the decision of Mumbai Tribunal in
the case of Conwest (P) Ltd. vs. First ITO reported in 7 ITD 314 and
holds that the business loss appearing in the audited accounts needs
to be allowed. x) In para 43, the ld CIT(A) takes note of the fact that the assessee
company had offered the amount recovered from NSEL as and when it is
recovered. The said amount has been offered as business income under 37 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., section 41(1) / 41(4) of the Act. The ld CIT(A) then holds that this may
result in double taxation which is not permissible. y) In para 44, the ld CIT(A) concludes his order on the relevant grounds
of appeal and holds that "In these facts and circumstances of the case, it
is held that the Appellant Company had suffered a trading loss in the
normal course of business, wherein the Appellant Company had made
payment for the purchases made but has not got the delivery of the
goods purchased. Hence, the payment made for the purchase trade is to
be treated as a business loss of the Appellant Company, which is
allowable u/s 37(1) of the Act." 7.8. We deem it fit to address the issue as to whether the loss arising on
the impugned transaction could be construed as speculative loss
specifically as more emphasis has been laid on the same by the ld DR at
the time of his arguments as well as during his rejoinder at the time of
hearing. We find that the ld AO had disallowed the claim of business loss
of the assessee on the ground that loss claimed is speculative in nature
and therefore the same would be eligible for set off only against
speculation profit. In our considered opinion, the ld AO had wrongly
interpreted the provisions of section 43(5) of the Act. For the sake of
convenience, the said provisions are reproduced below:- 7.8.1. From the plain reading of the above provisions, it is clear that to
label any transaction as "speculative transaction", certain conditions are to
be met. The term "speculative transactions" have been defined under the
Act for the purpose of section 28 to 41 pertaining to computation of
"Income from Business & Profession" and hence it is to be read strictly as
it begins with the word „means‟ while defining the term „speculative
transaction‟ and it is not to be considered as definition of explanatory
nature. The ld AO treated the impugned transactions as speculative
transaction as there was no actual delivery of the goods. In our
considered opinion, he erred in applying the test of „actual delivery‟
without first satisfying whether a contract for purchase and sale falls
within the ambit of a contract envisaged under law. We find that the
definition of „speculative transaction‟ covers only those transactions 40 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

arising from a contract of purchase or sale of goods which is periodically
or ultimately settled. The „settlement‟ of a contract is sine qua non before
considering it with other conditions stipulated in the definition. If
therefore, a contract of sale or purchase is not settled, then no further
condition can be tested to determine transaction as speculative or non-
speculative. If it meets the condition of „settlement‟ then only further
condition of actual delivery or transfer of commodity or scrip need to be
tested. Secondly, „settlement‟ referred to in the section 43(5) should
emanate from a contract where it is either performed or the promisee
dispenses with or remits, wholly or in part, the performance of the
promise made to him or accepts instead of it, any satisfaction he thinks fit.
A contract which is not performed or where there is breach of contract
cannot be covered as it lacks fundamental aspect of „settlement‟ as
required by section 43(5) of the Act. 7.8.2. In the instant case before us, the impugned contract of purchases
that took place on floor of the NSEL and wherefrom loss arose are not
„settled‟ at all. Of course, the issuance of warehouse receipt by NSEL could
be construed as settlement. But the undisputed fact is that the
warehouse receipt was retained by NSEL itself and never handed over the
assessee company. Moreover, as per SGS audit report, there were no
physical goods in requisite quantity as stated in the delivery allocation
report and warehouse receipt, present in the accredited warehouses of
NSEL, which came to light during physical inspection by SGS. Hence the
transfer of warehouse receipts by NSEL on behalf of buyers and sellers
cannot be considered as „actual delivery‟ for the purpose of section 43(5) of the Act as settlement of contract did not take place at all as is evident
from SGS audit report reporting the stock discrepancies. In the instant
case, the impugned loss arose upon not finding the stock belonging to the 41 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

assessee in accredited warehouse of NSEL. It does not arise upon
settlement of a contract which in reality remains unperformed for the
promise made. The loss also does not arise upon settling of contract for
purchase with contract for sale. The impugned transactions and therefore
loss arising from these purchase transactions cannot by any stretch of
imagination be treated as „speculative transaction‟ covered under section
43(5) of the Act. This aspect is no longer res integra in view of the
decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Shantilal (P) Ltd reported in 144 ITR 57 (SC) wherein the term „settlement‟ has been
explained as under:- In the above decision , their Lordships have also distinguished the decision
in case of Davenport & Co. (P) Ltd. v. CIT [1975] 100 ITR 715 which was
heavily relied upon by the ld AO in the present case. 7.9. Further we find that the ld AO in para 6.13 of his order erred in
treating the impugned transaction of purchase and sale (which never
fructified) as „commodity derivative‟ transactions and hence he treated it
as speculative transaction as, in his opinion, it does not fit into exception
provided in clause (e) of proviso to Section 43(5) of the Act. He erred in
interpreting the proviso enacted to give different meaning for certain
types of contracts listed in clauses (a) to (e) which otherwise would be
treated as „speculative transaction‟ in terms of section 43(5) of the Act.We
find that the proviso to section 43(5) of the Act is meant to exclude
certain types of transactions from the definition of „speculative transaction‟
by treating them as non speculative. It therefore follows that for any 42 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

transaction to be treated as deemed/non deemed speculative transaction,
it has to first fit into the definition of „speculative transaction‟defined in section 43(5) of the Act before proviso. As explained in earlier
paragraph,since a contract of purchase or sale itself does not fall into
definition of „speculative transaction‟ as they are not „settled‟ ,the question
does not arise at all of treating transaction as „commodity derivative‟ not
qualifying or fitting into clause (e) of the Proviso to Section 43(5) of the
Act. 7.10. Yet another aspect that remains to be addressed is that the ld AO
had treated the loss arising from impugned transactions as bogus and
non-genuine. We find that the ld AO in Para 6.7 of his order alleged that
both purchase and sale transactions are bogus and non-genuine. He also
alleged that the assessee was aware of the true nature of the transaction
that they are fictitious. We find that these allegations are baseless and are
only based on conjectures and assumptions. The transactions were
entered on electronic platform provided by NSEL. The counter party for
sale or purchase of commodity were not known to the assessee when
trades were executed. The assessee has paid for the purchases from own
funds. The delivery allocation report are received for the purchases made.
NSEL as per regulation of bye-laws was required to verify and weigh the
goods before receiving the goods in their accredited warehouse and then
only warehouse receipt was to be issued. The delivery allocation report
mentioned full details of goods, and hence the goods were identifiable.
The details mentioned included End Client code (in present case "2101")
for the assessee, WR/SR No. (Warehouse Receipt No.), Lot/QC No.,
Weight, and warehouse location. When the assessee acted on knowing
these facts, it cannot be made a party to wrong doing of others, moreso
when it is not a beneficiary to the wrong doing but in fact a sufferer of the 43 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

loss. The allegation of the ld AO that the assessee was aware of the
fictitious and managed transactions are therefore, not only baseless, but
also illogical that no person will put oneself knowingly into a situation
risking his own money in a fictitious and managed transaction. 7.10.1. It is pertinent to note that during the year, there were other
transactions of purchase and sale of commodities through NSEL which are
accepted by the ld AO as genuine and the income therefrom is also
correctly accepted as non-speculative business income. It is worthy to
note that the trading on NSEL platform in commodity were also accepted
for past years since the Asst Year 2012-13 onwards when such
transactions were carried out regularly by the assessee. 7.11. With regard to valuation of stock in respect of cost of commodities
not received by assessee from NSEL at Rs Nil , the same has been done as
per method of valuation of closing stock at lower of cost or market price
by the assessee. Admittedly, this method has been consistently followed
by the assessee year on year, which has been accepted by the revenue in
the past. The assessee‟s plea is that having paid monies for the purchase
cost of commodities, the assessee got cheated by NSEL by not having the
delivery of goods and which fact is also confirmed by SGS audit report
wherein it has been categorically stated that the requisite quantity of
commodities were not lying in the NSEL accredited warehouses, thereby
making the warehouse receipt issued by NSEL as scrap paper, it had no
other option to value the stocks not received at Nil. We find that stock of
commodities are held as stock-in-trade under current assets which are
valued at cost or market value, whichever is lower on FIFO basis. When
theft, burglary etc. occurs, the goods are to be written off by valuing them
at Rs NIL if there is no chance of any recovery of goods. In the present 44 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd. ,

case, since the SGS Report showed that goods purchased were not found
in the designated warehouses of NSEL and the assessee had already
made the payments for the purchases and received Delivery Allocation
Report, the closing stock was valued at Rs. NIL in respect of such goods
as there was no physical stock found at the accredited warehouses of
NSEL. In our considered opinion, no fault could be attributed on the
assessee in this regard. 7.12. With regard to reversal of sales when no sale could be said to have
been effected in the absence of goods , we find that that NSEL was acting
as agent and custodian of the goods purchased by the assessee. Upon
payments to NSEL and receipt of the Delivery Allocation Report, the
property in goods lying in warehouse is transferred to the assessee and
NSEL acts as custodian/trustee to the assessee. Non-existence of goods
was revealed when audit by SGS Report found that in most of the cases
goods were not available in the warehouse. Since payments for purchases
were already made and delivery of goods were received by way of
Delivery Allocation Report the purchases are rightly accounted for by the
assessee as per the accounting principles followed. Once purchases are
accounted in the books then under normal circumstances, sales are
booked if they are sold. But in the instant case, the sales could not be
effected actually as there were no goods lying in the NSEL accredited
warehouses as confirmed in SGS audit report. As per Para 10 of
Accounting Standard-9 (AS-9) on „Revenue Recognition‟ issued by
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), the revenue from sales
are to be recognized when requirements as to the performance of the
contract are satisfied . The performance for sale of goods are to be as per
set out in Paragraphs 11 of AS-9. The relevant paragraphs 10 and 11 of 45 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Accounting Standard 9 applicable in case of sale of goods are reproduced
below for immediate reference:- 7.12.1. Going by the above accounting standard and accounting policy
followed by the assessee, the contract for sale cannot be recognized as
revenue, as transfer of property in goods is not transferred to the buyer
on a date when it was supposed to have been transferred. This is because
by the time the date for transfer of goods to buyer arrived, it had already
come to light that there are no stock of goods in the warehouse of NSEL.
The sale transactions therefore, do not qualify to be accounted as revenue
as per the accounting standard published by Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India. However, the sale transactions, even though booked
in accounts needs to be reversed as revenue cannot be recognized when
the property in goods are not and cannot be transferred to the buyer. In
present case, before the settlement date of sale contract which were after
31.7.2013, it came to light that goods lying in the warehouse has
vanished. The treatment given in books by reversing the sales is in line
and in consonance with the accounting policy followed regularly and
consistently by the assessee which is declared in audited financial
accounts. M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

7.12.2. Yet another observation made by the ld AO was that the assessee
has reversed the sale which could not be done once it is booked in the
accounts vide para 6.8 and 6.9 of his order as under. We find that the the
matter of recognizing the revenue depends upon the accounting policy
followed regularly by the assessee. The accounting policy followed by the
assessee in respect of sale of goods as stated in their audited annual
accounts at Note No. 2.3 (g) and the same is reproduced below :- (Emphasis supplied)

7.13. Another aspect which the ld AO had raised in his assessment order
is the inconsistency in quantitative details in tax audit report and notes to
accounts in audited accounts. We find that these are not relevant at all to
determine the fact of incurring a loss claimed by the assessee when other
facts and supporting evidences are sufficient to establish the occurrence
of loss. The loss incurred by the assessee is established from the
documents produced as also reports from several investigation agencies
like EOW. The fact of suffering loss cannot be doubted when there was
big hue and cry about the scam when the same is in public domain. 7.14. We find that the ld AO further in his order at para 6.6,
reproducedthe operative part of the decision of Hon‟ble Bombay High
Court in the matter of bail application of Jignesh Shah, promoter Director
of NSEL. At the time of hearing of Bail application, the investigation was
still under progress. In our considered opinion, the Bail applications are 47 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

heard on the basis of prima facie facts stated by both parties and it does
not carry any precedential as well as evidentiary value. The ld AO while
relying upon the decision overlooked the observation of the Hon‟ble
Bombay High Court which conveyed in no uncertain terms that their
decision is based on investigation carried out so far and judging by the
broad probabilities of the case as should be done at the stage of bail.
Hence reliance placed on the decision of Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in
respect of Bail application of Jignesh Shah , does not advance the case of
the revenue. 7.15. We also find that the assessee had not taken any VAT registration
under any state in India and had conducted commodities transactions
through its brokers namely Purvag Commodites & Derivatives Pvt Ltd and
Jigar Commodities Pvt Ltd and hence assessee is not required to file any
VAT returns for its commodity transactions. We find that the assessee
had even sought to explain the quantity difference between its books and
VAT returns filed by the brokers by stating that except Castor oil and
Cotton seed wash oil, all transactions as per balance sheet are matching
with the VAT returns. In case of Castor oil and Cotton seed wash oil,
agent of assessee had filed its VAT return on the basis of information
received from NSEL but sales of castor oil and cotton seed wash oil was
actually not executed due to problems at NSEL. It was also submitted
that this VAT return could not be revised due to lapse of time. It was
specifically clarified that at the time of preparation of balance sheet of the
assessee company, the assessee had considered only actual sales and
hence not considered sales which were not executed at NSEL. The
assessee also furnished the statements showing state wise, commodity
wise details and other statement in Exchange wise details. These details
are for physical trading of commodities. Overall outcome of both the 48 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

statements were showing figures of opening stock, purchases, sales ,
amount written off, and closing stock of commodities for the year ended
31.3.2014 which are matching with each other. The disputed
transactions with NSEL had been separately reflected in such statements.
Hence it could be safely concluded that the entire quantitative details of
commodities transactions had been duly reconciled by the assessee with
its books, stock register, VAT returns filed by broker. Hence the genuinity
of loss claimed by the assessee cannot be doubted at all. 7.16. We also find that the co-ordinate bench of Delhi Tribunal in the
case of Chowdry Associates vs ACIT reported in 117 Taxmann.com 840
(Delhi Tribunal) dated 11.3.2020 ,had an occasion to adjudicate the
identical facts and circumstances of allowability of loss in respect of
payments made for purchase of commodities to NSEL wherein it was held
that the loss arising thereon would be allowable as business loss u/s 28 of
the Act. The operative portion of the said judgement is reproduced
hereinbelow for the sake of convenience :- Ltd. The assessee company traded on the exchange during F.Y. 2011-12,
 2012-13 and 2013-14. The AO also held that the assessee has traded
 through paired contracts. Paired contract means that an investor would
 enter into two contracts. A buyer would buy the commodity from the
 market paying cash for it, and store the commodity in warehouses
 accredited to NSEL. The buyer then use the warehouse receipts as proof
 of ownership of the commodity and sell the commodity to financial
 investors as standard short term contracts (T+2). Immediately after
 buying the contract, the investor would put the commodity up for sale on
 a T+26/T+35 basis. Looking at the transactions of the assessee, the AO
 held that the assessee has entered into two contracts on the same day of
 the same commodity and the same quantity for buying as well as selling.
 Hence, the AO held that the assessee is entered speculation business.
 .................................. 12. From the above events and the arguments of the Ld. DR, the
 following points are flagged: M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd., 12. It is also undisputed fact that the monies given above have not been received by the
 assessee. 13. The loss arrived out of the non-receipt of the amount from the brokers is claimed to
 be a business loss by the assessee which has been rejected by the AO. 14. The assessee has also not disputed that the transactions are under paired
 transactions. 13. The ld. AR argued, reiterating the modus operandi the stockists of the
 commodities first deposited the commodity with the Exchange accredited
 warehouse and received a warehouse receipt which was deposited with
 NSEL for the purpose of transactions under the control and supervision
 of NSEL. The transactions in NSEL are made through members of NSEL,
 who are authorized brokers. The assessee has made the transactions
 under paired contracts. Under the paired contract, generally the
 purchases were made at T+2 cycle and sales were made at T+25 or
 T+35 cycle. Under these transactions, the assessee company made full
 payment for purchase immediately and delivery of the commodity lying in
 the warehouse was assigned to it. The transactions were subjected to
 VAT, delivery charges, service tax. As far as sale is concerned, the
 assessee company immediately put a contract for sale on T+25 and T+35
 and delivery was assigned from buyer to the seller. The amount is
 received as and when the transaction is completed. In the assessment
 years 2013-14 and 2014-15, whatever the transactions were made on
 NSEL, whatever the profits or losses obtained, the same were duly
 disclosed in the profit & loss account and assessed as business income. 15. From the entirety of the events, we find that in the assessment year
 2014-15, the assessee had made purchases in the middle or last week of
 June 2013 through M/s Anand Rathi Commodities Pvt. Ltd. and M/s
 Philips Commodities Pvt. Ltd. The NSEL failed to fulfill its commitments
 and ultimately the Government had prohibited NSEL to make any
 transactions after 1st July 2013. The details of outstanding unsettled
 transactions of the assessee through both the brokers has also been
 furnished to the revenue authorities by the NSEL. 16. The AO disallowed the losses as claimed by the assessee on the
 ground that transactions has carried out by the assessee are speculative
 transactions settled without the delivery in terms of Section 43(5) of the
 Act. The AO in the assessment order reproduced the relevant provisions
 of Section 43(5) upto sub-Section (d) of 45(3). The AO stopped at short of
 sub-Section (d) without going further to sub-Section (e). 17. Reading further, sub-Section (e) which was introduced by the Finance Act, 2013 w.e.f. 1st April 2014 reveals that in respect of trading
 and commodity derivatives carried out in a recognized association shall
 not be a speculative transaction. The relevant provisions of Section 43(5)(e) are as detailed below. [(e) an eligible transaction in respect of trading in commodity
 derivatives carried out in a recognised association [, which is 51 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

 chargeable to commodities transaction tax under Chapter VII of
 the Finance Act, 2013 (17 of 2013),]] shall not be deemed to be a
 speculative transaction: 18. Further, Explanation 2 for the purpose of clause (e) defines what
 constitutes "commodity derivative". The meaning has been assigned as
 per Chapter VII of the Finance Act, 2013 . 19. Chapter VII of the Finance Act, 2013 at definitions mentioned at para
 106(5)- Commodity derivative means - (i) a contract for delivery of goods which is not a ready delivery contract; or (ii) a contract for differences which derives its value from prices or indices of prices- intermediary, registered under the bye-laws, rules and regulations of the recognized
 association for trading in commodity derivative in accordance with the provisions of
 the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) and the rules,
 regulations or bye-laws made or directions issued under that Act on a recognized
 association; and
(B) which is supported by a time stamped contract note issued by such member or
 intermediary to every client indicating in the contract note, the unique client identity
 number allotted under the Act, rules, regulations or bye-laws referred to in sub-
 clause (A), unique trade number and permanent account number allotted under this
 Act; 21. The "recognized association" means: 22. We also find that all the transactions made by the assessee are
 evidencing the client ID and PA No. and also carried out through
 computerized exchanged through electronic screen (NSEL) as per the
 details collected by the revenue. 23. We have also gone through the provisions of the Act introduced vide
 Finance Bill 2005 in respect of measures to rationalize the tax treatment
 of derivative transactions. The same is as under: 24. The revenue has clearly held that the assessee is in the trading of
commodity derivatives. Revenue, having said that failed to give the
benefit of provisions of Section 43(5)(e) . Hence, the transactions done by
the assessee shall not be deemed to be a speculative transaction in terms
of the provisions of the Act. 25. We have also gone through the accounts of assessee for the earlier
years. The amount kept with M/s Anand Rathi Commodities Pvt. Ltd. was
Rs. 1.30 crores for the year ending 31-3-2014 and Rs. 4.60 crores for the
ending 31-3-2013 and Rs. 2.95 crores for the year ending 31.03.3012.
Similarly, the amount kept with M/s Philips Commodities India Pvt. Ltd.
was Rs. 4.33 crores for the year ending 31-3-2014 and Rs. 14.95 crores
for the ending 31-3-2013. During the year, the assessee could not recover
the amounts from these two brokers owing to suspension of operations by
the NSEL which was given as a part of the business transaction for
purchase of commodities in the conduct of regular business operations.
Hence, the amount advanced made to purchase the commodity during the
course of the business is a business loss allowable u/s 28 of the Act. 26. We have also perused the notice of PCIT, Central, New Delhi issued
under the provisions of Section 263 of the Act proposing to withdraw the
bad debts claimed by the assessee and accepted by the Assessing Officer.
We categorically refrain from adjudicating on the strength of the notice, 53 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

however, we observe that the said notice also dealt with the issue of bad
debts claimed u/s 36(1)(vii) by that assessee. 27. We have also perused the order of the Chennai Tribunal in the case
of MeghSakariya International Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 59/Chennai/2018
wherein the bad debts have been allowed by the Tribunal u/s 36(1)(vii) of
the Income-tax Act, 1961. In that case too, the revenue has also brought
to the notice regarding the information received from NSEL that trading
on that platform was topped since 31-7-2014 and the NSEL was in the
process of settling the outstanding dues of its traders and auctioning its
assets for the said purpose. The revenue claimed that the claim of bad
debts was premature. However, the ITAT has allowed the claim of the
assessee based on the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of TRF Ltd. v. CIT 320 ITR 397 wherein it was held that after 1st April,
1989, it was not necessary for the assessee to establish that the debt has
become irrecoverable and it was enough if the debt was written off as
irrecoverable in the books. Further, the CBDT vide Circular No. 12/2016
clarified regarding the claim of the bad debts, the same is reproduced as
under: 28. Thus, we find that the CBDT has unequivocally allowed the claim of
bad debts once the same is written off in the books of accounts as
irrecoverable. Thus, the argument of the ld. DR that the bad debts should
not be allowed which is based on the letter issued by the NSEL that NSEL
is in the process of settling the amounts in view of the sufficiency of the
assets and not to allow bad debts as the claim is pre-mature. 29. We also hold that, if in any previous year, the debt has been written
off as bad and the relevant deduction has also been claimed but later on
the same debt is recovered in full or part, then the amount so recovered
will be included as income of the financial year in which such amount
has recovered. Owing to taxability of the amounts recovered, the revenue
would at liberty to tax the amount as and when received in accordance
with the provisions of the Act. The department must obtain the
information pertaining to payment by the NSEL to brokers/traders on
real time basis and bring these amounts to tax net. Hence, the advisory of
the NSEL not to allow the bad debts claim would be legally untenable
owing to the provisions of the Act, Circular of the CBDT and ruling of
the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of TRF Ltd. v. CIT (323 ITR 397). 30. Further, we have also perused the order in the case of M/s Omni Lens
Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 2818/Ahd./2010 wherein the matter was referred
back to the file of the AO to examine the issue of speculation/non-
speculation business after taking note of crucial aspect of actual delivery
of the commodity, if any, as claimed and to ascertain as to how the entire
debt has turned bad when the assessee was purportedly in possession of
the goods purchased. The issue before us is clear on this aspect. 31. The matter before us deals with the non-recovery of the advances
given to the brokers. The AO, for the instant year held that the assessee is
dealing in speculative transactions and invoked provisions Section 43(5) of the Act. The AO has also held that the assessee has been carrying 55 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

 trade in commodity derivatives. Section 43(5)(e) considers an eligible
 transaction in respect of trading in commodity derivatives carried out in
 a recognized association shall not be deemed to be a speculative
 transaction. Hence, we hold that the transactions of the assessee shall not
 be deemed to be speculative transactions. Chapter VII of the Finance Act,
 2013 w.e.f. 1-4-2014, details as to what is a commodity derivative in the
 Commodities Transaction Tax (CTT). As per the CTT commodity
 derivative means a contract for delivery of goods which is not a ready
 delivery contract or a contract for differences which derives its value
 from the prices of such underlying goods. Thus, we find that the assessee
 is in the business of commodity derivatives but not in the speculation
 transaction as held by the AO. The revenue has also accepted the income
 from the transactions of the assessee as business income but not as
 income from speculation for all the earlier years. (Owing to collapse of
 the NSEL, no further trading could be conducted by the assessee in the
 latter years). It is also an undisputed fact that the trade advances given
 by the assessee stands irrecoverable. 32. In conclusion, keeping in view the facts of the case, a tax history of
 the assessee , treatment given by the revenue to the transactions
 undertaken by the assessee, finding of the AO that the assessee is into
 commodity derivatives, provisions of the Section 43(5) invoked by the
 AO, provisions of Section 43(5)(e) relied upon by the ld. AR, Explanation
 (2) of Section 43 as to what constitutes commodity derivatives, Para 5 of Chapter VII of Finance Act, 2013 , CBDT Circular No. 3/2006 dated 27-
 2-2006, orders of the Co-ordinate Bench of ITAT in MeghSakariya
 International (supra), Omni Lens Pvt. Ltd. (supra), judgment of the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of TRF Ltd. (supra), we hereby hold that
 the business loss claimed by the assessee is allowable u/s 28 of the Act. 33. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 7.17. In view of our elaborate observations in the facts and
circumstances of the instant case and respectfully following the aforesaid
judicial precedent relied upon, we hold that the loss arising on account of
payment made to NSEL through registered broker towards purchase of
commodities (which were never delivered to assessee) , shall be allowable
as regular business loss u/s 28 of the Act. We further hold that the said
loss cannot be construed as speculative in nature. Accordingly, we do not
find any infirmity in the order of the ld CITA in this regard. Accordingly,
the Ground Nos. 2 & 3 raised by the revenue in the case of Nirshilp 56 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Securities Private Limited in ITA No. 6321/Mum/2019 for the Asst Year
2014-15 are dismissed. 8. In the result, the appeal of the revenue in ITA No. 6321/Mum/2019
is dismissed. 9. The grounds raised by the revenue are identical to the Ground Nos.
2 & 3 raised by the revenue in ITA No. 6321/Mum/2019 for the Asst Year
2014-15 in the case of Nirshilp Securities Private Limited and hence the
decision rendered thereon would apply with equal force for this assessee
also , except with variance in figures. 10. In the result, the appeal of the revenue in ITA No. 6318/Mum/2019
is dismissed. Ltd.,) 11. This appeal in ITA No. 6322/Mum/2019 for A.Y. 2016-17 arises out
of the order by the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-50,
Mumbai in appeal No. CIT(A)-50/10214/2018-19 dated 16/07/2019 (ld.
CIT(A) in short) against the order of assessment passed u/s.143(3) of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as Act) dated 10/12/2018
by the ld. Asst. Commissioner of Income Tax-10(3)(1) / Dy. Commissioner
of income Tax-Central Circle 8(1), Mumbai (hereinafter referred to as ld.
AO). 12. The first issue to be decided in this appeal of the revenue is as to
whether the ld CITA was justified in deleting the addition of Rs 57 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

1,34,86,279/- made by the ld AO on account of treating interest income
on fixed deposits under the head Income from other sources as against
the assessee‟s claim to be taxed under the head Income from Business. 13. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record. We find that the ld CITA had observed that the
assessee had received interest of Rs 1,34,86,279/- on the fixed deposits
kept with ICICI Bank which was offered to tax by the assessee as
business income. This income was sought to be taxed by the ld AO under
the head Income from other sources as according to him, the said
interest income was not incidental to business. We find that the assessee
had pleaded that it had availed Overdraft facility of Rs 13.50 crores
against Fixed Deposit of Rs 15 crores from ICICI Bank. We find that the
assessee had submitted that it is engaged in trading in shares , securities
and commodities and that its business requires availability of the funds
when opportunity to earn money arises in the volatile security and
commodity market. The timing of opportunity are always unpredictable
and therefore liquidity is of an essence for the type of business.
Accordingly, the fixed deposit was created with ICICI Bank so that an
overdraft facility could be availed against such fixed deposit from the
same bank in order to meet the business exigencies. The assessee
submitted that this fixed deposit was made admittedly out of business
funds of the assessee and for business purposes and accordingly the
interest income earned thereon was taxable as business income. It was
pleaded that the investment in fixed deposit was therefore inextricably
linked with the purpose of the business and therefore interest on fixed
deposits would be taxed only as business income. The assessee further
submitted that similar treatment given by the assessee was accepted by
the ld AO for the Asst Year 2015-16 while completing the scrutiny 58 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

assessment u/s 143(3) of the Act. The assessee placed reliance on the
following decisions in support of its contentions:- Moreover, the ld CITA also recorded the fact that the ld AO himself had
accepted this fact in Asst Year 2015-16 u/s 143(3) of the Act. With
regard to resjudicata in income tax proceedings, we find that the ld CITA 59 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

had stated though the principle of resjudicata does not apply to income
tax proceedings, but the principle of consistency cannot be given a go by.
Reliance in this regard was placed on the decision of Hon‟ble Jurisdictional
High Court in the case of CIT vs Gopal Purohit reported in 188 Taxman
140 (Bom) and the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Radhasoami Satsang vs CIT reported in 193 ITR 321 (SC). Hence we do
not find any infirmity in the said order of the ld CITA granting relief to the
assessee. Accordingly, the Ground No.1 raised by the revenue is
dismissed for the Asst Year 2016-17. 14. The Ground No. 2 raised by the revenue is with regard to deletion
made by the ld CITA in respect of disallowance made u/s 14A of the Act
read with Rule 8D(2) of the Rules. 14.1. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record. We find that the ld AO had stated in his order that
the assessee had average investment of Rs 27.83 crores during the year
under consideration in exempt income yielding assets, for which no
expenses have been disallowed voluntarily by the assessee u/s 14A of the
Act. Accordingly, the ld AO directly proceeded to apply the computation
mechanism provided in Rule 8D(2) of the Rules and proceeded to make
disallowance of Rs 73,08,242/- u/s 14 A of the Act in the assessment,
without recording any satisfaction in terms of Section 14A(2) read with
Rule 8D(1) of the Rules and without even mentioning about the voluntary
disallowance of Rs 33,886/- made by the assessee towards demat
charges. 14.2. We find that the ld CITA appreciated the fact that the assessee had
earned dividend income of Rs 1,52,093/- on investment in Goldman Sachs 60 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Liquid Bees Fund ; dividend and interest on tax free bonds both
comprised in stock in trade in the sums of Rs 1,31,65,513.58 and
Rs 3,07,08,660/- respectively and had claimed all these income as exempt
in the return of income. We find that the ld CITA got into each and every
investment made by the assessee together with the details of exempt
income derived thereon. The assessee also pleaded before the ld CITA
that it is having sufficient own funds in the form of share capital and
reserves as on 31.3.2016 and 31.3.2015 at Rs 260.26 crores and Rs
229.55 crores respectively, whereas the corresponding figure of stock in
trade of shares & securities were only Rs 160.23 crores and Rs 215.23
crores respectively. Hence it was pleaded that no borrowed funds were
utilised for making investment from which exempt income was derived.
Reliance in this regard was placed on the decision of Hon‟ble Jurisdictional
High Court in the case of HDFC Bank Ltd reported in 383 ITR 529 (Bom).
It was pleaded before the ld CITA that none of the factual and legal
submissions made by the assessee were considered by the ld AO with
regard to the impugned issue. We find that the ld CITA gave a
categorical finding that the interest free funds available with the assessee
company are much more than the value of investments that had actually
yielded exempt income to the assessee and hence there cannot be any
disallowance of interest under second limb of Rule 8D(2) of the Rules.
This factual finding was not controverted by the revenue before us.
Hence we do not deem it fit to interfere with the said finding of the ld
CITA. 14.3. Moreover, we find that the ld CITA had also recorded a categorical
finding that the ld AO had not recorded any objective satisfaction having
regard to the books of accounts of the assessee, as to why the claim
made by the assessee that no expenditure has been incurred other than 61 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

Rs 33,886/- for the purpose of earning exempt income, is incorrect. This
objective satisfaction with cogent reasons are required to be recorded in
terms of section 14A(2) of the Act read with Rule 8D(1) of the Rules.
This issue is no longer res integra by the decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme
Court in the case of Maxopp Investments reported in 402 ITR 640 (SC) in
para 41 thereon. We find that the ld CITA had also granted relief on this
count by placing reliance on the decision of Hon‟ble Delhi High Court in
the case of Eicher Motors Ltd vs CIT reported in 86 taxmann.com 49
(Delhi), on which, we find no infirmity. Hence the Ground No. 2 raised by
the revenue is dismissed. 15. The third ground raised by the revenue is with regard to adjustment
of brought forward business loss and unabsorbed depreciation of Asst
Year 2014-15 against the business income of the assessee during the
year under consideration. 15.1. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials
available on record. We have already held in assessee‟s own case for the
Asst Year 2014-15 in ITA No. 6321/Mum/2019 hereinabove that the
business loss of Rs 87.93 crores would be allowable as business loss u/s
28 of the Act. Hence the said loss would be eligible to be carried forward
to subsequent years in terms of section 72 and 32 of the Act to be set off
with the business income or other income, as the case may be. We find
that the ld AO had primarily dismissed the claim of the assessee since he
had already disallowed the business loss in Asst Year 2014-15 of Rs 87.93
crores. But the said disallowance has already been deleted by us in Asst
Year 2014-15 in ITA No. 6321/Mum/2019 supra. Hence this ground is
effectively consequential in nature. The ld AO is hereby directed to allow
the set off of losses from Asst Year 2014-15 after giving effect to our 62 ITA No.6321/Mum/2019 and other appeals M/s. Nirhsilp Commodities Pvt. Ltd.,

tribunal order for Asst year 2014-15 and whatever loss that is available to
the assessee thereafter, should be allowed to be carried forward to
subsequent years and allowed to be set off against future business
income. Accordingly, the Ground No. 3 raised by the revenue is
dismissed. 16. In the result, the appeal of the revenue in ITA No. 6322/Mum/2019
for the Asst Year 2016-17 is dismissed. 17. In the result, all the appeals of the revenue are dismissed. Order pronounced on 21/06/2021 by way of proper mentioning in the
 notice board.