The US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has sued retail chain Walmart and fintech firm Branch Messenger over compelling delivery drivers to use costly deposit accounts for payment purposes, among other allegations.

The actions target drivers and independent contractors working with Spark Delivery service, Walmart’s last-mile delivery initiative facilitating doorstep grocery delivery. For payment purposes, these gig workers must link their existing bank accounts or establish a digital wallet offered by third-party wallet providers.

The CFPB made several claims against Walmart and its payroll service provider Branch Messenger as follows:

The CFPB also accused Branch Messenger of conducting illegal activities concerning consumer accounts like failure to investigate alleged errors, evading ‘stop payment’ requests, not maintaining necessary records, abstaining from furnishing certain disclosures, and illegally mandating consumers to waive their rights under the law. Corresponding with the CFPB’s allegations of Branch Messenger failing to address consumer concerns, pleas have been made by several users facing issues like being constantly spammed with threatening messages for loan repayment, with no such actual loans incurred.

Drivers have flagged concerns over these practices for years, alleging concerns like certain banks used by them not associating with Branch Messenger over the involvement of certain transaction fees. This further impedes the process of direct deposits, leaving drivers to fend for themselves. These workers also complained about poor customer support service.

Responding to the lawsuit, Walmart termed it “rushed” and riddled with factual errors, while Branch Messenger alluded to the CFPB intentionally omitting facts to exert an “overreach”, CBS News reported . The fintech company also deemed the lawsuit a CFPB’s ploy to garner media attention.

Earlier this month, the CFPB sued banks like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and digital money transfer platform Zelle for failure to protect consumers from rampant fraud on the latter’s network. The bureau claimed that customers faced losses accumulating to $870 million over seven years due to the absence of adequate consumer safeguards. Previously, the CFPB also initiated proceedings against Comerica Bank for inconveniencing its Direct Express cardholders by evading customer support obligations.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event