1. This is a bail application U/ S.439 of Cr.P.C. by

 the petitioner for grant of bail in connection with

 Complainant Case (PMLA) Case No.10 of 2022 for BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 1 of 21 commission of offence Under Section 3 of the

 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (In short

 "PMLA") which is punishable Under Section 4 PMLA

 pending in the file of learned District and Sessions

 Judge, Khurda at Bhubaneswar. 2. An overview of the facts involved in this case

 are on 02.10.2022, one FIR was registered against

 the Petitioner and others vide Khandagiri PS Case

 No. 496 of 2022 for commission of offences

 punishable Under Sections 341 / 328 / 324 / 354-C / 370 / 386 / 387 / 388 / 389 / 419 / 420 / 465 / 506 / 120-B of

 Indian Penal Code (in short IPC ), 1860 and Under Section 66-E / 67 of the Information Technology Act,

 2000(In short the " IT Act "), but before registration

 of this case, another case was also registered

 against the co-accused person for similar offences.

 In the FIR against the Petitioner and others, the

 Petitioner and other co-accused person had extorted BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 2 of 21 crores of Rupees from different rich people by

 blackmailing them to get their video footage

 containing objectionable and inappropriate

 photographs viral. The aforesaid case was

 investigated into by the local police, but in the

 course of investigation, the Assistant Director of

 Enforcement, Bhubaneswar claiming the offences

 alleged against the Petitioner and others to be

 scheduled offences as defined Under Section 2(1y) of the PMLA instituted a complaint against the

 Petitioner and others before the special Court under

 PMLA, Bhubaneswar for commission of offence U/ S.

 3 of PMLA which is punishable U/ S. 4 of PMLA. It is

 stated in the complaint that soon after registration

 of the aforesaid police case, PMLA Case No.10 of

 2022 was recorded against the Petitioner and others

 for commission of aforesaid offence under PMLA and

 the matter was investigated into by ED. It is also BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 3 of 21 alleged in the complaint that the Petitioner and

 others had generated illegal income of Crores of

 Rupees through extortion by way of honey trapping

 rich and influential people and making their nude

 videos and threatening as well as blackmailing them

 for lodging false police cases and getting their nude

 videos viral in social media and, thereby, the income

 of the Petitioner and others are proceeds of crime as

 defined Under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA. This is

 how the complaint against the Petitioner and others

 came to be instituted for commission of offences

 Under Sections 3 / 4 of PMLA. 3. Heard, Mr.J.Pal, learned counsel for the

 Petitioner and Mr. G.Agrawal, learned counsel for the

 ED extensively. In support of their individual

 contentions, learned counsels for both the parties

 have filed short written notes of submission by

 relying upon the number of decisions, which would BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 4 of 21 be discussed if found relevant in subsequent

 paragraph. While arguing on merit, learned counsel

 for the Petitioner has also urged the ground of

 sickness of the Petitioner to grant him bail by

 extending the benefit of proviso appended to the

 mandatory provision of Section 45(1) of the PMLA. 4. Undeniably, the provisions as to bail are

 founded on the philosophy of protecting the most

 precious individual liberty of a person which is

 guaranteed under Article 21 of our sacred

 Constitution, but grant or refusal of bail to a person

 accused of offence is the discretion of the Court,

 however, such discretion should not be arbitrary or

 whimsical. Article 21 of the Constitution of India

 always reminds that the personal liberty is

 paramount and sacrosanct and no person shall be

 deprived of his personal liberty except according to

 the procedure established by law. On the other BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 5 of 21 hand, the object of bail is primarily to prevent

 punishment in the form of imprisonment or

 incarceration of a person pending investigation,

 inquiry and trial. Deprivation of personal liberty of a

 person accused of offence without lawful excuse

 amounts to pre trial punishment. In Satender

 Kumar Antil Vrs. Central Bureau of

 Investigation and another; (2022) SCC Online

 SC 825, the apex Court has emphasized the

 personal liberty in the following words:- 5. Adverting to the rival submissions, this Court

 at the inception engages itself to answer as to

 whether the stipulation as contained in Section

 45(1) of PMLA can be relaxed to grant regular bail to BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 6 of 21 the Petitioner. Undeniably, right to health is an

 integral part of right to life as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, but such right

 to health cannot be refused to a person facing a

 criminal charge, even such right cannot be denied to

 a convict found guilty for graver offence. It is

 indisputably an obligation of the State to provide

 adequate and effective medical treatment to every

 person, even to a under trial or convict. Above view

 get supports from the decision from Pt.

 Parmanananda Katara Vrs. Union of India and

 others; (1989) 4 SCC 286, wherein the Apex

 Court has emphasized the preservation of life, both

 of an innocent person or a criminal liable to be

 punishment in the following words. 6. Keeping in view the aforesaid principle, this

 Court right now focuses to the proviso to Section

 45(1) of the PMLA which was in fact carved out as

 an exception to empower and provide discretion to

 the Special Court to grant bail on humanitarian and

 medical grounds and, thereby, relaxing the strict

 compliance of the twin conditions enumerated in Section 45(1) of the PMLA, but the aforesaid

 discretion is required to be exercised in a judicious

 manner. The proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA

 confers discretion on the Court to grant bail to a

 person who is under the age of 16 years or is a

 woman or is sick or infirm, or is accused either on BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 8 of 21 his own or along with other co-accused of money

 laundering a sum of less than One Crore Rupees

 without insisting upon them for strict compliance of

 the twin conditions of Section 45(1) of PMLA. 7. It is, therefore, clear that an accused person

 who is sick in terms of proviso to Section 45(1) of

 PMLA can be granted bail without insisting upon him

 the strict compliance of the conditions enumerated

 therein, but who can be considered as a sick or what

 would be the level of sickness that would bring the

 accused within the parameters of "sick" has not

 been precisely defined or explained either in the

 PMLA or in any other act governing the provisions of

 bail. Normally, "sick" means suffering from disease

 or illness or unwell or ill and one who needs

 medication, but mere sickness, such as suffering

 from fever or illness which can be treated in the jail

 without any difficulty cannot be considered as "sick" BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 9 of 21 so as to entitle the accused to bail in view of the

 exception to Section 45(1) of the PMLA. In this

 regard, this Court considers it apt to refer to the

 decision in Pawan Alias Tamator Vrs. Ram

 Prakash Pandey and another; (2002) 9 SCC

 166, wherein the Apex Court while setting aside the

 order of Allahabad High Court granting bail to the

 accused inter-alia on the ground of ailment of the

 applicant, has held as under:- 8. In Kewal Krishnan Kumar Vrs. Enforcement Directorate; (2023) SCC Online

 Delhi 1547, it has been held by High Court of Delhi

 as under:- 9. In the backdrop of aforesaid discussions and

 keeping in view the principle governing the field on

 this issue, this Court is of the considered view that

 the sickness which are not only life threatening, but

 also serious and requires special medical attention

 and which the jail authority cannot provide in the jail

 would normally be considered as a ground for grant

 of bail to an accused by relaxing the strict

 compliance of Section 45(1) of the PMLA by giving

 benefit of the proviso appended thereto. Granting

 bail on mere sickness by extending the proviso

 appended to Section 45(1) of the PMLA will render

 the aforesaid proviso otiose. However, the aforesaid

 proviso may be invoked in genuine cases, where the

 sickness of the Applicant cannot be treated in jail BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 11 of 21 and such sickness would endanger the life of the

 applicant. 10. Reverting back to the sickness ground of the

 Petitioner in this case, it appears that on being

 agreed by learned counsel for both the parties, this

 Court by an order requested the AIIMS,

 Bhubaneswar to constitute a medical board to

 examine the petitioner as to the necessity of

 "Tracheostomy" for him and in response to such

 request of this Court, the AIIMS, Bhubaneswar by

 showing good gesture for cause of justice had

 constituted a medical board of seven Doctors under

 the leadership of Professor Manash Ranjan Sahoo

 which board after examining the Petitioner and on

 going through the records co-relating the

 examination test findings of unanimous conclusion

 that the "Tracheostomy tube" of the Petitioner can

 be removed after admission at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 12 of 21 Hospital. It, therefore, very clear that the

 "Tracheostomy tube" cannot be removed in the jail

 by taking the help of medical expert. Needless to

 mention here that "Tracheostomy" is a surgically

 created hole in the windpipe (Trachea) of a person

 that provides an alternative airway for breathing.

 Since Tracheostomy is related to alternative airway

 for breathing, it is definitely a serious ailment and

 the medical board report clarifying it being not

 removable without admission in Hospital, the

 aforesaid sickness of the Petitioner is considered to

 be the nature of sickness within the meaning of

 "sick" as provided in first proviso to Section 45(1) of

 the PMLA. It is, thus, answered that the Petitioner

 can be released on bail without insisting upon him

 the strict compliance of the twin conditions of Section 45(1) of the PMLA Act by way of relaxation BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 13 of 21 in terms of the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA

 Act. 11. Mr. Agrawal, learned counsel for the ED,

 however, has relied upon the decision in Vijay

 Agrawal Through Parokar Vrs. Directorate of

 Enforcement; (2022) SCC Online Delhi 4130

 and the judgment of High Court of Kerala in BLAPL

 No. 2166 of 2023 (M. Sivasankar Vrs. Union of

 India and another) to contend that the Petitioner's

 sickness may not be considered in terms of the

 aforesaid proviso, but such submission appears to

 have no direct bearing in the present case inasmuch

 as the ailment of the accused in Vijay Agrawal

 (Supra) was not in the nature of the ailment of the

 Petitioner nor was it life threatening nor was the

 treatment of the applicant not possible in the jail.

 Further in M. Sivasankar (Supra), the High Court

 of Kerala did not give the benefit of proviso to BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 14 of 21 Section 45(1) of the PMLA to the applicant-

 Sivasankar by holding that Sivasankar did not have

 any serious illness and in the earlier time also, he

 was granted bail by relaxing the rigor of Sec. 45(1) of the PMLA on medical ground, but when he was

 released on bail, he joined duty and also continued

 in service till his retirement without undergoing any

 further treatment. 12. According to the complaint of ED, the details

 of movable property owned and acquired by

 Jagabandhu(Petitioner) as alleged was for a value of

 Rs. 17,49,389/-, besides allegation of assisting his

 wife in layering and placing the proceeds of crime

 generated by her as a result of criminal activity

 relating to schedule offence in his account and the

 Petitioner and his wife were alleged to have an

 immovable property i.e. residential building with an

 investment of Rs. 3.39 Crores whose present market BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 15 of 21 value is assessed at 3.64 Crores and this is the main

 substratum of allegation against the Petitioner and

 his wife. The complaint under PMLA also refers to

 another FIR in Nayapalli P.S. FIR No. 646 of 2022,

 but the said FIR was registered only against co-

 accused, but not against the present petitioner and

 charge sheet was only submitted against co-accused

 Archana Nag. Besides, it is informed by learned

 counsel for the ED that the complaint in PMLA now

 stands posted for execution of warrant issued

 against co-accused, but the petitioner in the

 meanwhile has been detained in custody since

 13.12.2022 being remanded and the case record

 against the petitioner has not been separated.

 Further, the petitioner was subjected to custodial

 interrogation by the ED. What is more significant is

 that the other reason that might delay the trial in

 this case is the fact that co-accused is yet to be BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 16 of 21 arrested. In such situation, it is quite uncertain as to

 when the trial will commence and how much time it

 would require for completion. In the aforesaid

 premises and on a cumulative assessment materials

 placed on record, this Court has no hesitation to

 consider that the petitioner has successfully

 demonstrated his case for relaxation of compliance

 of Section 45(1) of PMLA by way of the benefit of

 proviso appended to it. 13. Furthermore, while dealing bail application,

 three factors are mainly required and the accused is

 required to satisfy the tripod test:- (i) flight risk, (ii)

 tampering of evidence and (iii) influencing of

 witnesses. In the circumstance of the case, the

 petitioner does not appear to be a flight risk and

 such apprehension can be arrested by directing the

 petitioner to surrender his Passport if any. Since the

 complaint has been filed, there appears little BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 17 of 21 apprehension of tampering evidence by the

 petitioner and the third one i.e. influencing

 witnesses can be curbed by imposing appropriate

 conditions. Further, the petitioner has already

 remained in custody for near about ten months. 14. A cumulative discussions of facts and

 allegation as noticed above and taking into

 consideration the pre trial detention of the Petitioner

 for near about ten months with uncertainty

 prevailing about execution of NBWA against co-

 accused affecting the commencement of the trial

 and, thereby, conclusion of trial being not possible in

 near future and regard being had to the nature of

 "sickness" of the Petitioner which allows him to

 obviate the rigor of compliance of the provision of Section 45(1) of the PMLA by way of relaxation, this

 Court considers that the Petitioner has made out a

 case for grant of bail. BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 18 of 21 15. The bail application of the petitioner stands

 allowed and the petitioner may be released on bail

 on furnishing bail bonds in the sum of Rs.2,00,000/-

 (Rupees Two lakhs) with two local solvent sureties

 each for the like amount to the satisfaction of the

 learned Court in seisin of the case on such terms

 and conditions as deem fit and proper by it with

 following additional conditions:- It is clarified that the Court in seisin of the case

 will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the Petitioner

 without further reference to this Court, if any of the

 above conditions are violated or a case for

 cancellation of bail is otherwise made out. BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 20 of 21 It is, however, made clear that nothing stated

 in the order shall be construed as a final expression

 or opinion on the merits of the case and the trial

 would proceed independently of the observation

 made above and such observation has been made

 purely for the purpose of adjudication of the present

 bail application. Accordingly, the BLAPL stands disposed of. (G. Satapathy)
 Judge

Signature Not Orissa
 VerifiedHigh Court,
 th
 Cuttack,
Digitally Signed
 Dated the 10 of October, 2023/Priyajit
Signed by: PRIYAJIT SAHOO
Designation: Jr. Stenographer
Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA
Date: 11-Oct-2023 13:24:08 BLAPL No.2635 of 2023 Page 21 of 21