RAJESH BHARDWAJ.J (Oral)

 The present petition has been filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C

praying for granting of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR No.292

dated 5.9.2022 registered under sections 354 , 354-A , 354-D , 427 , 506 , 34 IPC read with section 67-A of I.T Act at Police Station, Maqboolpura,

Amritsar. As per facts of the case, the present FIR was lodged by the

complainant (name concealed), wherein it was alleged that prosecutrix was

serving as a Constable in Punjab Police, District Amritsar. Opposite to her

residence accused Simratpreet Singh i.e. the present petitioner, who was

also employed in Punjab Police, was residing. He used to stalk the

complainant and send her obscene messages on Whatsapp. In order to save

her honor the complainant blocked his number, however, the accused did

not mend his ways and started making her video calls as well. The vulgar

messages were sent to the complainant. When the complainant and her

family members complained about the same, accused misbehaved with

them and beaten them. Resultantly, the complainant lodged the present FIR

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 30-09-2022 03:47:27 ::: CRM-M-44103-2022 -2- to take legal action against the accused. The investigation commenced and apprehending his arrest the

petitioner approached the learned Fast Track Court, Amritsar praying for

grant of anticipatory bail. However, after hearing the parties, the same was

declined vide order dated 13.9.2022. Aggrieved by the same, petitioner has

approached this Court for grant of anticipatory bail. Learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently contended

that the petitioner has been falsely and frivolously implicated in this case.

He submits that the petitioner is the member of a disciplined force and he

cannot be expected for his involvement for the alleged offence. He submits

that both the complainant and petitioner are neighbors and as there are

differences among the families, on account of the same the complainant has

lodged the present FIR on the basis of false and fabricated allegations. He

submits that petitioner neither made any video call nor sent any vulgar

message to the complainant, as alleged. He submits that petitioner has no

criminal antecedents and as he is ready to join the investigation, he deserves

to be granted the benefit of anticipatory bail. Notice of motion. On the asking of the court, Mr. Sandeep Kumar, D.A.G.,

Punjab accepts notice on behalf of respondent-State. Learned State counsel has opposed the submissions made by

counsel for petitioner. He submits that both petitioner and complainant are

employed in Punjab Police. He submits that though the investigation is at

threshold, however, complicity of the petitioner is writ large as is evident

from the investigation conducted so far. He submits that the investigating

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 30-09-2022 03:47:28 ::: CRM-M-44103-2022 -3- agencies are verifying the call records and Whatsapp messages sent by the

petitioner to the complainant. He further submits that mobile phone of the

petitioner is also required for further investigation. I have heard learned counsel for the petitioner at length and

have gone through the record carefully. The allegations levelled by the prosecutrix against the

petitioner are specific and serious in nature. The petitioner being the

member of a disciplined force is not expected to indulge in such activities.

For the consideration of anticipatory bail, the statutory parameters are given

under Section 438(1) Cr.P.C. which reads as under:- As per the law settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia Vs. State of Punjab , AIR 1980 SC 1632, while

granting anticipatory bail, the Court is to maintain a balance between the

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 30-09-2022 03:47:28 ::: CRM-M-44103-2022 -4- individual liberty and the interest of society. However, the interest of the

society would also prevail upon the right of personal liberty. The relevant

part of the judgment is as follows:- 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 30-09-2022 03:47:28 ::: CRM-M-44103-2022 -5- as necessary for the survival of the society as it is for the
 egoistic purposes of the individual. A person seeking
 anticipatory bail is still a free man entitled to the presumption
 of innocence. He is willing to submit to restraints on his
 freedom, by the acceptance of conditions which the court may
 think fit to impose, in consideration of the assurance that if
 arrested, he shall be enlarged on bail." Looking into the facts and circumstances of the case, it is

admitted position that the petitioner is member of the police department. He

has been assigned the duty in the cyber cell of the department. An official

who has been assigned the responsibility by the State of preventing the

innocent victims fallen prey to the cyber offences, cannot be expected to be

himself involved in the cyber offences. In the facts and circumstances of the case when the allegations

are of serious in nature, granting bail to the petitioner at this stage when the

investigation is at threshold would prejudice the ongoing investigation.

Thus, in the overall facts and circumstances of the case, the Court is of the

opinion that petitioner does not qualify for grant of anticipatory bail.

Petition, being devoid of any merits, is hereby dismissed.