Dated this the 8th day of June, 2022
S. Manikumar, CJ

 Instant intra court appeal is directed against the judgment dated

18.02.2022 passed in W.P.(C) No.21861 of 2021, by which, the writ

court closed the writ petition, without acceding to any of the prayers

sought for by the writ petitioners, however, directing that the pipelines

and the "SV Station" will be operationalised only after the necessary

"Qualitative Risk Assessment" and such other unexpendable steps and

measures are complied with and completed, in terms of the

"Regulations", either by Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Body or

its accredited Agency; and after obtaining necessary permits and

consents from all the statutory entities like the District Administration,

Disaster Management Authority, PESO Fire and Rescue Department,

Factories and Boilers Department, Pollution Control Board etc. It was

also ordered that the official respondents shall ensure that these

directions are complied with in its letter and spirit. 2. Brief facts leading to the filing of the instant appeal are that,

Sectionalizing Valve (SV) Station is a Gas Pipeline System which WA:400/2022 -:5:- contains the valve installed at regular intervals, to isolate pipeline

section during emergencies like leakage and such other contingencies.

Hence, as per Exhibit-P1 notification dated 12.02.2016, issued by the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board, framing Petroleum and

Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications

including Safety Standards for Petroleum and Petroleum Products

Pipelines) Regulations, 2016, human habitation should be a parameter

to identify a location for SV Station. It is also mandated therein that to

minimize the hazard of communication of fire to the station from

structures on adjacent property, the location of SV Station should be

identified with all caution to ensure safety and security standards. 3. Appellants further state that now the 4th respondent, which is

in a project for laying LPG Pipeline from Cochin to Salem, has identified

their SV Station and is acquiring the land for the same, in a residential

locality, wherein 17 residential plots are locked, out of which, 11

residential houses are constructed and occupied. The actions of

respondents 4 to 6 to acquire the land, construct and install SV Station

and Valve, which is in a residential locality, is the concern of the

appellants, who are the residents and landowners there and that the WA:400/2022 -:6:- actions are in violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 4. Appellants further state that reading of Exhibits-P4, P5 and P6,

make clear the gravity of the issue and it is an alarming fact that the 4 th

respondent is constructing the SV Station, in a plot surrounded by

residential houses. Though the appellants have suggested an alternative

location and land for acquisition, which is an isolated place where no

residential units are in existence, in the immediate proximity, the same

has not been considered and the 4 th respondent is proceeding with the

proposed site. 5. In such circumstances, challenging the alleged illegal and

unreasonable action of the respondents, W.P.(C) No.21861 of 2022 has

been filed by the appellants, for the following reliefs: 6. Before the writ court, on behalf of respondents 4 and 5, the

Chief Executive Officer, Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited, Corporate

Office, Tripunithura, has filed a statement, wherein it was, inter alia,

contended that the 4th respondent has also established SV Stations in its

pipeline route, as mandated by OISD & PNGRB guidelines, and is

proposing to purchase 34 cents of land in Survey No.170 of Block 7 of

Kakkanadu Village, to establish the SV Station and to erect the

Sectionalising Valve and accessories. The Sectionalising valve consists

of a simple underground remotely operated valve mechanism and is

used to isolate and evacuate the petroleum pipeline section in case of

emergency and repair. The temperature and pressure inside the

petroleum/LPG pipeline can also be measured using the instruments

installed on both sides of Sectionalising Valve. The power, protection,

safety and control system panels will be housed in a building of about WA:400/2022 -:8:- 1500 square feet, to be constructed inside the SV Station. A reliable and

dedicated communication system to interact with all stations is

designed, installed and maintained there, to ensure safe operations of

the pipeline under both normal and emergency situations. For this, two

Optical Fibre Cables (OFC) are being laid along with the pipeline and

will terminate in the SV Stations. 7. Respondent No.4 has further contended that the LPG pipeline

system shall be equipped with Supervisory Control and Data

Acquisition (SCADA) and Leak Detection System. There is no

production, manufacturing and treating of petroleum products in the SV

Station or in the building situated therein. In additional to the above,

the following facilities will be therein in the SV Station: 8. Respondent No.4 has further contended that the SV Station

established for safety and security of the pipeline as per the norms of WA:400/2022 -:9:- OISD and PNGRB will not cause any danger or health hazard to the

petitioners or their families, but it only helps them since it is only a

safety mechanism. 9. Respondent No.4 has further submitted that it is a private

limited company and not an instrumentality of the State under Article

12 of the Constitution of India. By establishing a Sectionalizing Valve

Station in the adjacent property of the writ petitioners, there is no

infringement of the peaceful and unimpeded right to life of the

petitioners or will endanger their safety and life as alleged by them.

According to the 4th respondent, paragraph 1.5.1.2 of Schedule 1A of

Exhibit-P1 does not relate to SV Stations where the valve is installed

underground (with long stem to operate), but it deals with pipeline

installations with pump stations. As per the Petroleum rules

"installation" means any premises wherein any place has been specially

prepared for the storage of petroleum in bulk, but does not include a

well-head tank or a service station. Pump station is the facility to pump

the LPG/Petroleum product from the storage of LPG/petroleum

products. There are only two pump stations in the pipeline route of the

4th respondent in Kerala State, one at BPCL, Kochi refinery and the other WA:400/2022 -:10:- at IOCL Puthuvaypeen Import Terminal where the storage facility for

petroleum products are provided, which are far away from the Plot in

question where the SV Station is proposed to be made. 10. The 4th respondent has further contended that the allegation

that because of the SV Station, remaining 6 residential plots may not get

permission for construction of residential houses is baseless. There is

no bar in construction of residential or other buildings in the property

of the petitioners because of the SV station proposed to be installed in

the plot in Survey No.170 of Block 7 of Kakkanad village. The SV has to

be installed on the pipeline and the SV Station cannot be shifted to the

plot as suggested by the writ petitioners. That apart, the allegation that

respondent No.5 and his subordinate officers are having more interest

in the real estate; that they are working for the landowner; and that the

unholy relationship with the land owner with ill motivated financial

interest of the officials are the reason for declining the shifting of the

location is absolutely baseless and false. 11. It was also contended that there is no illegality on the part of

the respondents as alleged by the petitioners in paragraph 17 of the

writ petition and that the allegation that regulations are ignored due to WA:400/2022 -:11:- the high handed influence and ill-motivated intentions of the officers of

respondent No.4 is absolutely false and baseless. The allegation of the

writ petitioners that the presence of SV station in the abutting land is

really a concern on the safety of the residents and the respondents are

attempting to infringe the fundamental right of the petitioners to life

guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is also baseless. For the

foregoing reasons, the 4th respondent prayed for dismissal of the WP(C). 12. Apart from the above, the Chief Executive Officer of

respondent 4 company and respondent No.5 have filed an affidavit,

wherein, it was stated that a reading of Regulation 1.8.2 of Exhibit-P1

regulations, makes it clear that valves shall be provided for isolating

sections of station piping, in order to limit the hazard and damage from

accidental discharge and to facilitate repair and maintenance of piping

facilities and critical equipment. Thus, the valves are not hazardous, but

are fixed to limit any hazard. 13. According to the 4th respondent, Exhibit-P1 regulations

mandate that for LPG pipeline facilities, mainline sectionalizing or block

valves shall be installed at a maximum spacing of 12 kilometres in

industrial, commercial and residential areas. In fact, SV stations are WA:400/2022 -:12:- established even in thickly populated cities like Vashi, Thane, etc.

During construction in any pipeline project, there could be some

variation in the alignment, due to unavoidable circumstances or

unavailability of permissions as envisaged. This change in alignment

does not cause any change in the process design basis unless there is

variation in the vital parameters. Other than routine maintenance,

there is no activity envisaged in SV3. It is further reiterated that such SV

stations are to be mandatorily installed in all the pipeline routes drawn

by all the oil companies, throughout the country, and it is established to

prevent any possibility of fire or hazard in the pipeline. It is also

stated that SV station is only a safety measure for safe operation of

the pipeline and is provided for the benefit of the people residing in

the locality. 14. It is pertinent to note that Petronet CCK Ltd., which has

drawn petroleum pipeline from Cochin to Karoor in Coimbatore, has set

up SV stations as per the norms of the Board, which includes residential

areas as well. In order to substantiate the said contention, respondent

No.4 has produced Exhibit-R4(a) photographs showing the boundary

wall of the SV station set up by Petronet CCK Ltd., abutting a residential WA:400/2022 -:13:- house in a residential area. It is also submitted that the said SV station is

functioning there for the last more than two decades. Likewise, the

respondents have also established several SV stations in its pipelines at

various parts of the State; many studies were conducted; and that the

Ministry of Environment, forest and Climate change, based on the study

report and other relevant factors, granted CRZ clearance. Further, the

respondents have secured consent to establish the pipeline from the

Kerala Pollution Control Board as evident from Exhibit-R4(f) and it was

renewed upto 31.12.2013 by order dated 11.12.2018. Hence, it is

contended that all the required permits have been obtained by the

respondents and all requirements under Exhibit-P1 have been

complied with by the 4th respondent. 15. That apart, the 4th respondent has filed an additional

statement clarifying certain points raised by the writ petitioners in

their reply affidavit dated 15.11.2021. 16. After considering the pleadings and material on record, by

the impugned judgment, a learned single Judge dismissed the writ

petition, negating the contentions of the appellants and the mandatory

stipulations on the basis of habitation and locations of residents, in WA:400/2022 -:14:- terms of Exhibit-P1 regulations and the provisions of Petroleum and

Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of user in land) Act, 1962.

However, in the appeal, it is contended that the vital aspects raised by

the appellants have been ignored and event the feasibility of the

alternative land has not been considered. Hence, this writ appeal. 17. The question raised by the appellants is this appeal is that

that whether the finding and reasoning of the learned single Judge in

the impugned judgment is sustainable or not; and that the action of the

4th respondent to acquire the land, construct, and install the SV Station

comprising the safety and security concerns of the local residents are

legally sustainable, since it violates Articles 14 and 21 of the

Constitution of India. 18. Based on the above pleadings, appellants have raised the

following grounds: 19. Based on the above, Dr. K.P.Pradeep, learned counsel for the

appellants, made submissions. 20. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

material on record. 21. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 61 of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Act, 2006, the Petroleum and

Natural Gas Regulatory Board have framed Exhibit-P1 regulations viz.,

Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and

Specifications including Safety Standards for Petroleum and Petroleum

Products Pipelines) Regulations, 2016. Clause 3 of the regulations

speaks about application and it reads thus: 22. Clause 4 of Exhibits-P1 regulations speaks about scope and it

reads thus: 23. Clause 5 of Exhibit-P1, dealing with the objective of the

regulations, states that these standards are intended to ensure uniform

application of design principles and to guide in selection and

application of materials and components, equipment and systems and WA:400/2022 -:18:- uniform operation and maintenance of the petroleum and petroleum

products pipelines system and shall primarily focus on safety aspects of

the employees, public and facilities associated with petroleum and

petroleum products pipelines. 24. Clause 7 of Exhibit-P1 regulations speaks about compliance to

these regulations and it reads thus: Alternatively, if such a record is not available, the entity
 shall produce in service test record of the petroleum and
 petroleum products pipelines network having been
 tested as per ASME B 31.4 or carry out intelligent pigging
 survey along with fitness for purpose report: 25. Clause 1.1 in Schedule 1A-Design, in Exhibit-P1 regulations,

deals with general provisions and it reads thus: 26. Clause 1.5 in Exhibit-P1 regulations speaks about location and

layout of pipeline installations. Clause 1.5.1 thereto speaks about

location and it reads thus: 27. Clause 1.8.2 of Exhibit-P1 regulations speaks about valves and

it reads thus: For LPG Pipeline facilities, API SPEC 6D valves
 suitable for LPG services shall be provided. All valves
 shall be fire safe conforming to API 607/6FA." 28. Clause 1.8.2.6 of Exhibit-P1 regulations speaks about

mainline or Sectionalizing Valves and it reads thus: Factors such as topography of the location, ease of
 operation and maintenance including requirements for
 section line fill shall be taken into consideration in deciding
 the location of the valves. However, in any case the distance
 between two consecutive sectionalizing valves shall not be
 more than 50 km. (ii) For LPG pipeline facilities, mainline sectionalizing or
 block valves shall be installed at maximum spacing of 12 km
 in industrial, commercial and residential areas. (iii) For LPG installations, Remotely Operated Sectionalizing
 or Mainline block valve(s) shall be provided with blow
 down connection to isolate and evacuate the pipeline WA:400/2022 -:22:- section in case of emergency and repair. All blow down
 piping shall have double valve segregation. (iv) Mainline block valves shall be installed on both sides of
 the major river crossings and public water supply
 reservoirs. The valves shall be as close as possible near the
 upstream and downstream bank of the river and public
 water supply reservoirs for isolation of these portions of the
 pipeline and these valves must be remote operated. (v) The valve stations shall be located at a readily accessible
 location such as near roads and shall be provided with an
 access road from the nearest all weather metalled road.
 Overhead power lines shall not cross directly over the
 process area of the valve station facilities. (vi) The provisions of remote operated feature should be as
 per the operation and control philosophy to be adopted for
 the pipeline by the entity or operating company. For LPG
 installations, Sectionalizing or Block valves with remote
 shut off provision from the control room shall be provided
 at the boundary of station pipeline inlet and outlet locations
 to isolate the station facility. At locations where valve
 stations are combined with pump or repeater stations, the
 requirements of safe distance and statutory clearance, as
 applicable, shall be followed. (vii) Valve shall be installed buried and provided
 with suitable stem extension for ease of operation.
 Sectionalizing valve on the piggable section of pipeline shall
 be full bore type to allow safe passage of pigs. The valve
 shall meet as minimum requirements of API SPEC 6D or
 ISO-14313 - "Specification for pipeline valves". Isolation of
 earthing of actuator to be done to avoid interference in C.P. (viii) Actuator for the actuated valve may be selected based
 on type of valve, availability of power and project
 philosophy. Pipeline sectionalizing valve may be electrically
 or pneumatically or hydraulically operated. Valves used in
 mainline shall be with butt weld ends. Valves used in buried
 portion shall be with butt weld joints only, except at the
 locations where hot tapping operation is to be carried out WA:400/2022 -:23:- for which, buried flanged end valve may be provided. (ix) Valve surface shall be applied with suitable corrosion
 protection coating. (x) All joints between the mainline pipe and the first valve
 on the branch, including the inlet to first valve, should be
 welded in order to restrict possible leakage which cannot
 be isolated by the closure of the valve. 29. Exhibit-P2 is the notification S.O.2889(E) dated 20.08.2020

issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of

India, which states that, whereas it appears to the Central Government

that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport of

Liquefied Petroleum Gas from Kochi Refinery of Bharat Petroleum

Corporation Limited in the State of Kerala to Salem in the State of Tamil

Nadu and that a pipeline should be laid by M/s. Kochi - Salem Pipeline

Private Ltd; and whereas, it appears to the Central Government that for

the purpose of laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right

of user in the lands under which such pipelines are proposed to be laid

described in the schedule annexed to this notification; now therefore, in

exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (1) of Section 3 of the

Petroleum and Minerals Pipelines (acquisition of Right of User in Land)

Act, 1962 (Central Act 50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby

declares its intention to acquire the right of user therein; and any WA:400/2022 -:24:- person, interested in land described in the said schedule may, within 21

days from the date on which the copies of the notification, as published

in the Gazette of India are made available to the general public, object in

writing to the acquisition of the right of user therein or laying or the

pipeline under the land to Sri. Anilkumar P., Competent Authority,

Kochi - Salem Pipeline Private Ltd., Karun Enclave, 2 nd floor, Door

No.B2, S.N. Junction, Refinery Road, Tripunithura, Pin - 682301. 30. The sole question emerging for consideration in this appeal is,

whether any interference is required to the judgment of the learned

single Judge dated 18.02.2022. 31. The vital aspect for that purpose to be considered is, whether

the safety precautions taken by the respondents, in order to regulate

the Kochi Salem Pipeline in a residential area, requires interference in a

proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 32. Going through the statements filed by the contesting

respondents, it is clear that Sectionalizing Valve stations are installed,

in order to avoid any hazards and damage likely to cause, due to the

accidental discharge of gas from the pipeline, and to facilitate

maintenance of pipeline facilities and critical equipment. The statement WA:400/2022 -:25:- and documents make it clear that SV stations have to be installed at a

maximum of 12 kilometres in industrial, commercial and residential

areas, in order to regulate and control the supply line, and therefore,

such stations cannot be located in a place different from the place

where the pipeline passes. Moreover, the contesting respondents have

submitted that SV stations have to be installed in dry lands, whereas,

there is no such requirement for laying the pipeline, and in order to

avoid inconvenience caused to the public, the respondents have chosen

paddy fields for the purpose of acquiring the rights from the public for

laying the pipelines. In fact, by providing SV stations, safety of the

public is protected, and accordingly danger can be averted. Hence, the

allegations to the contrary, contained in the appeal that it would

endanger the inhabitants of the area, cannot be sustained at all. 33. The issue as regards installation of SV stations are regulated

by Exhibit-P1 regulations issued by the Government of India. There is

no case for the appellants that the SV stations were put up in violation

of the said regulations prescribed by the Central Government and apart

from wild allegations, appellants have not produced any material to

establish that the SV stations are potentially dangerous to the people WA:400/2022 -:26:- residing in the nearby locality. Moreover, we are informed during the

course of hearing by the learned counsel for the respondents that 50%

of the work relating to installation of SV stations is already over and it

would be made functional, after taking all the safety precautions, in

accordance with the regulations and also the guidelines prescribed in

that regard. 34. In view of the regulatory mechanism provided by the Ministry

of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India, to avoid any

possible danger, and since the SV stations are a mandatory requirement

for regulating and controlling the gas pipeline, it cannot be said that the

SV station cannot be installed in a residential area. Even though the

appellants have pointed out a place where there is less density of

population, as is discussed above, even going by the accepted norms

and guidance, the valves have to be fixed on the pipeline itself, within a

maximum of 12 kilometres distance from the other and a most suitable

location to be identified for setting up the SV station. 35. In view of the technical aspects to be followed by the statutory

authorities, in order to regulate, control, and avoid damages from any

accidental discharge from the pipeline, and to take safety precautions, WA:400/2022 -:27:- we are unable to agree with the contention raised by the appellants that

construction of the SV stations would be a potential danger to the

residents of the locality. 36. Taking into account the factual, technical, and legal

circumstances discussed above, we are of the considered opinion that

the appellants have not made out a case for interference with the

impugned judgment, since the learned single Judge has taken into

account the entire technical and legal aspects involved in the subject

matter while rendering the judgment, and we could not locate any

jurisdictional error or other legal infirmities, justifiable to be interfered

with, in an intra court appeal. In the result, this writ appeal fails and accordingly, it is dismissed.

No costs. Sd/- S. MANIKUMAR
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/- SHAJI P. CHALY
 JUDGE
Krj WA:400/2022 -:28:- APPENDIX

APPELLANTS' ANNEXURES:- RESPONDENTS' ANNEXURES:-NIL

 //TRUE COPY//

 P.A. TO C.J.