1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit
 under S. 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of
 the Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction
 restraining infringement, passing off, delivery up and
 rendition of accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the
 defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially,
 the present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before
 the concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge,
 Patiala House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of
 trial, the case was received by this Court by way of
 transfer, on 27-09-2023 in view of Order
 No.17016-17031/Judl./ NDD/ PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022
 of the then Ld. Principal District & Sessions Judge,
 New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited
 v. Bhavya Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM
 APPLs No. 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 3. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, in brief, is
 as under:- Thus, it is stated that due to massive advertisement
 and publicity and also due to excellent quality of the
 plaintiff's said goods, the plaintiff's said trade
 mark/name enjoy tremendous goodwill and
 reputation across the globe, including in India. Trade and the public at large, world over including
 in India, associate, identify and distinguish the said
 trade mark/name and the copyrights therein, with the
 plaintiff's said goods and business alone. Thus, the
 said trade mark/ name and the copyrights therein
 have become distinctive indicium of the plaintiff
 and its said goods. Apart from the reputation and
 goodwill acquired in India by virtue of use,
 advertisement and sales, plaintiff's international
 goodwill & reputation under the said trade
 mark/name, has also spilled into India through
 various means and modes including print &
 electronic media, Internet, trade literature &
 magazines, traveling public, etc.

 3.10. It is also claimed that the plaintiff's said
 trademark/label is a well-known Trade Mark within
 the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of the Act. 3.11. Thus, it is stated that in view of the plaintiff's

 proprietary rights both under statutory and common
 law in its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation,
 and its copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive
 right to the use thereof and nobody can be permitted
 to use the same or any other deceptively similar
 trademark/label in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 3.12. It is alleged that the defendant no.1 imported a

 consignment of counterfeit products of different CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 6 of 28 -7- brands, vide Bill of Entry No.5006 dated
 20-06-2016 at Special Economic Zone, Village-Sai,
 Taluka-Panvel, Raigad-410221, Maharashtra, which
 was intercepted and seized by defendant No.2, as the
 said consignment was found to be in violation of the
 Intellectual Property Rights (Imported Goods)
 Enforcement Rules, 2007 framed under the Customs
 Act, 1962 , vide Notification nos. 47/2007 and
 48/2007. The defendant nos. 2 & 3 are stated to be
 the relevant custom offices and are authorities of
 Indian Government, which are responsible for
 collecting custom duties and are made to regulate
 the export and import of the goods into and out of
 the country. 3.13. It is stated that the defendant no. 2 informed the

 plaintiff's attorneys, vide communication/ letter in
 March,2017 that they had detained the impugned
 goods and asked the attorney to join the
 proceedings. Their details are as follow:- 3.14. Further, it is stated that vide letter dated 01.04.2017,

 the plaintiff's said attorney through its counsels
 joined the said proceedings and submitted that the
 impugned products were counterfeit and the said
 products must not be released to defendant no.1 and
 also requested defendant no.2 for physical
 inspection of the seized goods. Thereafter, the CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 7 of 28 -8- plaintiff inspected the seized goods and took
 photographs. Further, the plaintiff verified and
 communicated to defendant no.2 that the seized
 goods are not genuine. 3.15. It is further stated that the defendant no.2 requested

 the plaintiff to execute Bond equal to 110% of
 Rs.37,400/- [Rs.41140/-] and also to furnish security
 in the form of Bank Guarantee of amount equal to
 25% of Rs.41140/- (with auto renewal clause). It is
 stated that the plaintiff furnished such bond and
 fixed deposit respectively. 3.16. It is alleged that the said consignment contains huge

 quantities of counterfeit products bearing the
 plaintiff's said trademarks TAG HEUER

 CARRERA, TAG HEUER, TAG /

 / / for watches etc.
 [hereinafter referred to as the "said impugned trade
 marks/ labels"]. 3.17. Thus, it is alleged that the defendant no.1 has

 dishonestly and malafidely adopted impugned
 trademarks/labels TAG HEUER CARRERA, which
 are visually, structurally identical and/or deceptively
 and confusingly similar to the registered trademarks/
 labels of the plaintiff's TAG HEUER in relation to
 same goods and business, thereby causing confusion CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 8 of 28 -9- and deception amongst the unwary purchasing
 public and traders by making them believe that the
 origin of those goods is the plaintiff company. It has
 been averred that by doing so, the defendant no.1 is
 not only damaging the reputation and goodwill of
 the plaintiff company by passing off its substandard
 products as that of the plaintiff company, but is also
 causing financial loss to the plaintiff company by
 reaping unfair advantage of the repute and
 distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. 3.18. On these facts and circumstances, the plaintiff has

 filed the present suit against the defendants praying
 therein, inter alia, that decree of permanent
 injunction may be passed restraining the defendant
 no.1 and all others acting for and on its behalf from
 using, selling, soliciting, importing (in any manner
 or from any other port), exporting, displaying,
 advertising or by any other mode or in any manner
 using impugned trademarks/labels TAG HEUER
 CARRERA, or any other word mark/trade
 marks/label, which may be identical with and/or
 deceptively similar to the registered
 trademarks/labels of the plaintiff TAG HEUER in
 relation to same goods and business, thereby
 infringing plaintiff's registered trademarks,
 copyright and passing off its products as that of the
 plaintiff. It is also prayed that the defendant nos.2
 and 3 be also restrained from releasing and CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 9 of 28 -10- defendant no.1 from obtaining release of impugned
 goods under the impugned trademarks/ labels lying
 in the custody of defendant nos. 2 and 3 and
 direction is also sought to be issued to defendant
 nos.2 and 3 to absolutely confiscate the impugned
 counterfeit goods, with liberty to the plaintiff to
 destroy the said impugned goods in accordance with
 law. 4. The suit was accompanied with an application under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC seeking an ex parte ad interim
 injunction. After hearing the counsel of plaintiff, the said
 application was allowed, vide order dated 31-01-2019
 passed by Ld. Predecessor of the Court, thereby granting
 an ex parte ad interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff
 and against defendant no.1, and thereby restraining the
 defendant no.1 from using, selling, soliciting, importing
 (in any manner or from any other port), exporting,
 displaying, advertising or by any other mode or in any
 manner dealing or using the impugned trademarks/labels,
 as also restraining the defendant nos. 2 and 3 from
 releasing and defendant no.1 from obtaining release of
 impugned goods under the impugned trademarks/ labels
 lying with defendant nos. 2 and 3, being consignment
 under Bill of Entry No.5006 dated 20-06-2016, till next
 date of hearing. 5. Summons of the suit were issued to the defendants in
 terms of relevant orders. After being served, the defendant
 nos. 2 and 3 put their appearance through counsel,but no CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 10 of 28 -11- written statement has been filed by them. Since, the
 defendant no.1 was not served, it was directed to be served
 with the summons of the suit. 6. In the meantime, the present case was received by this
 Court on 27-09-2023, as already noted above in Para No.2,
 and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was
 moved on behalf of the plaintiff seeking amendment of
 the suit, thereby enhancing specified value to be above
 Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the present suit within the ambit of
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , in view of the directions
 of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Vishal Pipes
 Limited (supra). 7. Since, the defendant no.1 could not be served through
 ordinary mode of service, it was served by way of
 substituted mode of service through publication in
 newspaper 'Loksatta' (Marathi Edition) dated 04.02.2023,
 as also in 'Times of India' (English edition) Mumbai dated
 29.01.2023 in terms of order dated 21-12-2022 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court. Despite such service, none
 had put his appearance on behalf of defendant no.1. 8. Consequently, the said amendment application was
 allowed, vide order dated 21-02-2023 and the defendants
 were directed to file written statement(s) to the amended
 plaint within 30 days. 9. Since, none had been appearing on behalf of defendant
 no.1, therefore, it was proceeded against as ex parte, vide
 order dated 07-07-2023. 10. Further, despite grant of sufficient time and number of
 opportunities, the defendant nos.2 and 3 did not file written
 statement(s) to the amended plaint and consequently, their
 opportunity to file the same was closed in view of the fact
 that the maximum period of 120 days had already elapsed
 from the date of allowing of the amendment application,
 and also in view of judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case titled " SCG Contracts India Pvt. Ltd. v. K. S.
 Chamankar Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. " reported as AIR 2019
 SC 2691, vide order dated 05.02.2024. Subsequently,
 the said defendants also stopped appearing and
 consequently, they were also proceeded against as ex
 parte, vide order dated 20-1-2025. 11. Thus, it emerges from the record that none of the
 defendants chose to file written statement either to the
 original plaint or to the amended plaint. 12. It may be noted that the plaintiff had filed an application
 XIIIA Rules 3 & 6 (1) (a) CPC , as applicable to the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 seeking summary judgment,
 however, subsequently, statement was made on its behalf
 by its counsel to withdrawn same and consequently, the
 said application was dismissed as withdrawn, vide order
 dated 07-3-2025, passed by this Court. 13. In support of its case, the plaintiff has examined only one
 witness i.e. its AR namely Sh. Nripendra Kashyap as PW1.
 He led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- Srl.no Document/Particulars Exhibit(s) 13. Certificate under Section 65B Ex. PW 1/C
 Indian Evidence Act. 14. On statement of AR of the plaintiff, the ex parte evidence
 of the plaintiff was closed on 07-03-2025. After closure of
 PE, ex parte final arguments were heard. 15. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause nos. 35(d) to 35(i) of
 the amended plaint. Accordingly, the plaintiff was
 permitted to give up the said reliefs, vide order dated
 07-03-2025. In view thereof, the suit survives only with
 respect to the reliefs of permanent injunction, whereby the
 plaintiff has sought permanent injunction against
 defendant no.1 from using the impugned trademarks/
 labels, and also for directions sought to be issued to
 defendant nos. 2 and 3. 16. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF: 17. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that the entire
 testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged and
 un-rebutted from the side of defendants and therefore, the
 plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed for. In
 support of his submissions, Counsel also relied upon the CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 14 of 28 -15- documents [Ex.PW1/2 to Ex.PW1/8, Ex.PW1/11,
 Ex.PW1/B and Ex.PW1/C as also MARK A, B & C]. 18. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of the plaintiff that
 the trademarks/labels TAG HEUER are well known
 trademarks/labels of the plaintiff and are registered in
 India under the provisions of Trade Marks Act in favour of
 the plaintiff, which are valid and subsisting till date.
 Further, the artistic works involved in the said trademarks/
 labels are original artistic works and the plaintiff holds
 copyright therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff
 spends huge amount of money in advertising and
 promotion of its products and said marks enjoy a huge
 goodwill and reputation in business community and public
 in general in India and across the world. 19. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned trade
 marks/ labels as adopted by the defendant no.1, which are
 identical and/ or confusingly or deceptively similar to the
 registered trademarks of the plaintiff, not only amounts to
 committing fraud upon the plaintiff company, but, also
 upon the unwary general public, due to which, the plaintiff
 company suffers huge monetary loss and its goodwill and
 reputation is also at stake and therefore, he urged that the
 suit may be decreed in favour of plaintiff and against
 defendant no.1, thereby restraining the defendant no.1 and
 all others acting for and on its behalf from using the said
 impugned trade-marks/ labels. 20. As regards jurisdiction of this Court, Ld. Counsel of
 plaintiff has vehemently argued that the defendant no. 1 is CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 15 of 28 -16- making clandestine and surreptitious soliciting, networking
 and has intention to sell its impugned goods and business
 under the impugned trade mark/ label in New Delhi are
 viz. Connaught Place, Barakhamba, Vasant Kunj, Gole
 Market, Bengali Market, Lodhi Colony, Sarojini Nagar etc.
 and thus, the said defendant is committing the impugned
 acts of infringement and passing-off in the said markets of
 New Delhi area and therefore, the plaintiff's above said
 proprietary rights are being prejudicially affected or likely
 to be so affected in New Delhi due to defendant no.1's
 impugned activities. Hence, a whole or part of cause of
 action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court under S. 20 CPC. 21. Further, while pointing out from the relevant documents,
 Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has vehemently argued that the
 plaintiff has been carrying on business through its Special
 Agent/exclusive store at Johnson Watch Company, C-16,
 Connaught Place, New Delhi-110001, which falls within
 the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Besides, Ld.
 Counsel of plaintiff also contended that the plaintiff's
 goods are also available, sold, purchased and delivered
 through its interactive website www.tagheuer.com, as well
 as through other big online marketplaces like Flipkart,
 Amazon, Snapdeal etc. which are freely accessible from
 any place including the place within the jurisdiction of this
 Court and therefore, it is contended that this Court also has
 the territorial jurisdiction to entertain the suit within the
 meaning of S. 134 (2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and
 also under S. 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 22. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION: 23. First I shall decide with the issue as to whether or not this
 Court has the jurisdiction to try and entertain the present
 suit. 24. PW1 has categorically deposed in his affidavit in evidence
 on identical lines of the averments made in the plaint.
 The PW-1 has also duly proved Screenshots of plaintiff's
 website and details of plaintiff's stores as Ex.PW1/6 and
 Ex.PW1/7 respectively. As per Ex.PW1/6,
 whereby it is duly shown that the goods of the plaintiff
 under the said trade marks/ labels are available on the
 website of plaintiff i.e. www.tagheuer.com, which is stated
 to be interactive in nature and through which,
 the said goods can be displayed, sold, purchased and are
 deliverable to any place, including the place within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. As per Ex.PW1/7,
 it reflects that 'Johnson Watch Company'
 which is stated to be exclusive store of the plaintiff, and is
 shown to be operating within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this Court. 25. As already noted above, despite being served through
 substituted mode of service, none had appeared on behalf
 of defendant no.1 during the course of trial, and the CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 17 of 28 -18- defendants nos.2 and 3 also stopped appearing before this
 Court and consequently, they were proceeded against
 ex parte. Moreover, none of the defendants chose to
 cross-examine PW1. Thus, the whole testimony of PW1
 remained unchallenged and uncontroverted from the side
 of the defendants. Therefore, in view of the law as laid
 down by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in cases titled as
 " Banyan Holding (P) Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy &
 Anr. " reported as 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780; 26. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of
 the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of
 the above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact
 that evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion
 that at least part cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore,
 this Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain
 the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 27. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trade mark, to quote:- 28. Further, our own Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries
 Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC 63 (Del) laid down the principle
 as to how infringement of trade mark is to be seen,
 to quote:- 29. In view of above law, lets examine the facts of the case in
 hand. The averments made in the plaint are duly supported
 by the documents proved during the course of evidence.
 PW-1 has deposed on the identical lines of averments
 made in the plaint and has proved various documents, as
 already referred to above. 30. In the case titled as "Amrish Agarwal Vs. M/s Venus
 Home Appliances Pvt. Ltd" in CM (M) 1059/2018 dated
 27-08-2019, passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court, it was,
 inter alia, directed that in trademark infringement matters,
 the following documents ought to be necessarily filed
 along with the plaint. The relevant Para no.7 of this
 judgment is reproduced hereunder: 31. In this case, the plaintiff has relied upon and filed copies of
 Status pages related to the plaintiff's registered trademark,
 which are duly proved by PW-1 as Ex.PW1/3 (Colly.). As
 per same, it is shown that trade mark TAG HEUER and
 TAG are registered as device mark/word mark in favour of
 the plaintiff. Therefore, it is duly shown that the said
 trademarks/word marks/device marks/labels TAG HEUER
 and TAG are registered in favour of the plaintiff since
 long. Further, during the course of final arguments,
 counsel of plaintiff has stated at Bar that the registration of
 said trademarks/ word marks/ device marks stand renewed
 and same are valid till date. 32. Further PW-1 has also proved copy of correspondences
 between the plaintiff and defendant no.2 as Mark A,
 according to which, it is duly shown that in reference to
 communication of custom department regarding
 consignment imported by M/s Remi Impex, vide Bill of
 Entry No. 5006 dated June 20, 2016, bearing
 No.S/V-30(45)/2016-17/Part II, the plaintiff's attorney
 had duly informed the custom department that plaintiff is
 the right holder of the trademark TAG HEUER, apart from
 requesting to provide further details of the consignment CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 22 of 28 -23- while appointing/ authorizing Mr. Mahesh V. Kamble, to
 conduct examination of the seized goods bearing
 impugned trade mark. 33. PW1 has also proved documents of bond and bank
 guarantee submitted by the plaintiff's previous counsel to
 defendant no.2 in response to their request, as Mark C.
 Therefore, the plaintiff has been able to establish on
 record that the impugned seized goods were imported by
 M/s Remi Impex i.e. the defendant no.1 herein. 34. In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded in
 proving that the defendant no.1 had imported seized goods
 bearing falsified trademarks/trade name/labels of the
 plaintiff company and therefore, trademarks and copyright
 of plaintiff company are required to be protected. 35. Pertinently, the impugned trade marks/ labels TAG

 HEUER CARRERA, TAG HEUER, TAG /

 / / as adopted by
 defendant no.1 are established to be phonetically identical
 and/or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said registered

 word marks/ device marks TAG HEUER, TAG / CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 23 of 28 -24- / / in all material
 particulars including style, get up and visually etc. 36. Accordingly, the plaintiff is held entitled to the decree of
 permanent injunction whereby the defendant no.1 is
 required to be restrained from using trademarks / labels
 TAG HEUER CARRERA or any other trade mark which
 may be identical with and/ or deceptively similar to the
 plaintiff's said registered trade marks/labels TAG HEUER
 in relation to similar goods, thereby infringing plaintiff's
 registered trademarks, copyright and passing off its
 products as that of the plaintiff. 37. Since the impugned goods seized by defendant nos. 2 and
 3 are held to be counterfeit goods, they are hereby directed
 not to release the same to defendant no.1. As regards
 direction for absolute confiscation of the counterfeit goods,
 the detention of impugned goods has been made by the
 custom authorities under the Intellectual Property Rights
 (Imported Goods) Enforcement Rules, 2007.The said
 Rules provides the requisite procedure to be followed in
 respect of the seized infringed goods. Rule 2 (d) thereof
 defines the term 'Right Holder' as under:- 38. In the present case, the plaintiff has been held to be owner
 of the said trademarks/labels TAG HEUER in the
 preceding paras. Thus, in view of Intellectual Property
 Rights (Imported Goods) Enforcement Rules, 2007, the
 case of the plaintiff squarely falls within the definition of
 'Right Holder'. 39. Further, Rule 9 of the Intellectual Property Rights
 (Imported Goods) Enforcement Rules, 2007 provides as
 under:- 40. Further, Rule 7 (Suspension of clearance of imported
 goods) and Rule 11 (Disposal of infringing goods) lays
 down the complete procedure of suspension of release and
 disposal thereof as under:- 41. Thus, it is quite evident from bare perusal of the
 aforesaid Rules that the infringed seized goods can
 be destroyed by the Custom Authorities and the cost is to
 be borne by the 'Right Holder', which is the plaintiff in
 this case. 42. In view of the foregoing reasons and the discussions made
 hereinbefore, the defendant nos.2 and 3 are hereby
 restrained from releasing the infringed seized goods vide
 Bill of Entry No.5006 dated 20-06-2016 to defendant no.1 CS(COMM)/58/2018 Page 26 of 28 -27- and they are further directed to consider the destruction of
 the infringed seized goods as per the procedure laid down
 in this regard in the light of rules quoted above and also
 keeping in view all the enabling provisions governing the
 situation in hand and while complying with the relevant
 directions, if any, issued by Hon'ble Superior Courts in
 this regard. RELIEF: 43. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the
 basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant(s) and the following reliefs are granted:-