SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Everyone's out there to scam you in this country, even those you help
DATE: 2024-08-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ewvkz9/everyones_out_there_to_scam_you_in_this_country/

--- POST TEXT ---

I hate how everyone in our country is out to freaking misuse, manipulate and abuse people's kindness in this country. 

I had a beehive/honeycomb in my house and two guys &amp; their little sister came to offer me to take the honey from the honey comb, give me half of it and they sell the half of it. The helper in my house could've done it himself as he has before, but I was alone at home &amp; thought I would let them since I didn't need so much of honey anyways, and it would help them if they sold it. I sat with the little girl and talked to her normally about things, while those two fired up the smoke to get remove the bees. The girl seemed nice which made me slightly have my guard down with these guys thinking they weren't shitty. They got the beehive down, asked me to get a container so I brought the first container I could find which was a large solid steel container. He took out the honey from it and showed me that it was very less, like 2kgs so we split it 50-50. They already had some honey from another comg they had just gotten from a nearby public park in their own container. They asked me to get another container to filter from the previous container to this container, so I got another one &amp; also got my mom's chunni (that she just got pissed off at me about ruining) and a knife to cut the hive, get the honey out etc. When I came back with the other container, I felt like I saw them squeeze a lot more honey out of the combs than he did before, there were more comb pieces than I saw before and he had put it into his container that he already had. Plus he also got half of mine later. I didn't think of it much at the time, but I am able to connect the dots. Then he leaves all of the honey at my house to go find customers, starts bringing back customers and makes me tell them he just got the honey out of the tree etc and I agreed to help the guy. His little sister was also hungry so my mom specially cooked for her to feed her at lunch since we had both already eaten before (seperately). In the evening, he said he found a customer who will buy the whole honey from him and requested me if he could take the steel container etc with him promising that he would return it. Ofcourse he didn't come back.

So now I have this 250rs worth of honey (which is probably not even 20-30% of what he got in total, I am sure that he fooled me there) at the cost of a whole day of constant drama, a steel container that costed atleast a 1000 rs, a knife that costed 300, and taunts from my mom on how I am too nice and trusting of people &amp; let them use my goodness for their benefit. Not to mention that now I also have a doubt in mind about whether he might come back and try to loot me somehow with his other scammy buddies since they know we are nice &amp; innocent people. I suddenly regret everything I did today and I regret helping him.

I know that none of this is a big deal. But I am so fucking tired of living in a country where you can't even be nice &amp; help people because if you help them a little, they will abuse it and try to take as much as they can from you. I tried getting some work in a government office honestly but a man who applied after me got it instantly because of his bribe (I am still waiting and struggling to get my file processed). It feels like just everyone is fucking out to get you here. You can't even be a good person even if you want to be because you'll get rammed over by people with no ethics. I see examples of countries like NZ where people leave vegetable carts in open, people take what they need and leave the money for it. It sucks that people in our country have no morals, no shame, no civic sense, no consideration for even those who are nice to them and help them. It makes me not want to help anyone ever again if they're all just frauds at the end. I've always had a doubt in my mind on whether I just got fucking scammed whenever I've helped anyone, because there's just so many scams and manipulative tactics going on everywhere.

I don't think there's any improving for this country, not in the near future atleast. The mindset of people is just way too shitty. I love India and want to live here but I don't want my kids to grow up in a place like this where they can't even be good and kind people because it will get them used. This kind of environment only nurtures shitty people to grow, no wonder the shittiest people get to run our country because the ones with honesty and good intentions could never even join the race.