SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Rant about Kotak Mahindra Bank and advise needed
DATE: 2024-03-06
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1b7smhg/rant_about_kotak_mahindra_bank_and_advise_needed/

--- POST TEXT ---

All this happened after my father passed away last year.

He had a joint account in Kotak Mahindra Bank with me and my mother as the other holders. Just removing his name from this account was a painstaking process with numerous visits to the branch along with my aged mother. The employees in the bank seemed clueless about this simple procedure. It took us over 2 months for this to get resolved. On the other hand, in SBI, this was a one day's job and completed in one visit. Another account with SBI, where there was no nominee, was also a smooth process with the employees being extremely proactive.

Now we also found that my father had a mutual fund account with them. My mother is the nominee. Getting this closed and transferred to her has been a nightmare. We started this process over 6 months back and had to visit the branch frequently to check on the status. The branch took their own sweet time to transfer the document to the head office and they did so only after multiple followups. Now they have closed my father's mutual fund account but the units have not been transferred to my mother's account. It has been 2 months and again no one has a clue where the units are.

We have numerous accounts with this bank including demat accounts, credit cards, FDs and savings. We have initiated the process to close all these and cease any relationship with this bank. I strongly advise you to do the same. You don't want your loved ones being harassed like this during grieving. And what if they are in urgent need of this money?

They don't bother to keep us informed about the progress. Every weekend, I have to visit the bank to get the status only to get a reply that it will take 3-4 days more. Surprisingly SBI employees kept us in the loop by calling us when required. Kotak has only gives us mental agony!

Now my question is who is the authority to complain regarding mutual fund frauds?