DW-2 Statement of Sh. Shivam Karol, aged 34
 years, C/o Megagonn Architects, Ist Floor,
 Roshni Shopping Complex, Ram Chawk,
 Palampur, District Kangra, H.P.176061. On Oath
 18.04.2023
 I am an Architect by profession. I founded an
Architectural Design Firm with the aforesaid name since
2012. I was approached by defendant company for a visit
at Nalagarh of their factory in the year 2018.
Accordingly, I visited the factory of the defendant at
Nalagarh with my team on 29th April, 2018. I inspected
the entire premises of the factory and the defendants told
me to demarcate the premises of the factory as some
portion of the factory was rented out to the plaintiff by the
defendant. After inspecting the entire premises of the
factory with my team I prepared the report, which is mark
"X", now Ext. DW-2/A, (original placed on record today),
which is duly singed by me. I have mentioned in the Ext.
DW-2/A, the premises which was disclosed to me to be
rented out to the plaintiff by the defendant in green
colour, however, there are certain portions adjacent to the
shed rented out to the plaintiff, which was also under the
occupation of the plaintiff, which has been reflected by
me in Ext. DW-2/A in red colour. xxxxxxx Cross examination by Sh. B.C. Negi, Senior
Advocate with Sh.Ganesh Barowalia, Advocate for
the defendant xxxxx
 I was approached by the defendant being a
professional telephonically on my mobile at Palampur. I
do not have office or branch at Nalagarh. Self stated that
at the relevant i.e. 2018, I had one branch at Chandigarh
also. The address of my Chandigarh Branch, Chamber
No.215, Second Floor, SCO-7, Sector-7, Madhya Marg,
Chandigarh. I did not check the reneve record before
demarcating the premises of the factory of the defendant.
I was given the detail regarding Khasra number and other
revenue details by the owner of the factory himself. I
never asked the owner of the factory to provide me the
rent deed of the area which has been rented out to the
plaintiff. Self stated that I was simply asked by the
defendant to mark the area which was in the possession of
the plaintiff at that relevant time. The defendant also
asked me to mark the additional area which was in the
possession of the plaintiff. There is one another factory
besides the factory of the defendant and there were open
fields on the other sides adjacent to the factory of the
defendant. The main road approaches directly to the
factory of the defendant, which was located on the end of
the road. It is incorrect that I never visited the spot. It is
 also incorrect that I prepared the spot map Ext.DW-2/A,
while sitting in my office. I am not authorized to
demarcate the land as I am not a Revenue Officer. I did
not notice two roads inside the factory of the defendant
except the main road. I have not noticed six rain
harvesting tanks and soak pits within the premises of the
factory however, I have noticed one rain harvesting and
one septic tank inside the factory premises of the
defendant. It is incorrect that I am deposing falsely. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

18th April, 2023
 (ravinder) -1:- Statement of SI Mohar Singh, P.S. Sadar Bilaspur,
 H.P.
 On Oath
 18.08.2022
 Stated that in the year 2021, I was posted as I.O.
at Police Station Sadar, Bilaspur. On 3.2.2020, a complaint
Ext.AW1/A was received at Police Station, Bilaspur filed by
the complainant Shri Kanshi Ram. The said complaint was
assigned to Karan Singh, I.O. for investigation. After
conducting the investigation, I.O Karan Singh submitted his
report Ext.AW1/B to S.P., Bilaspur and an entry was made in
the Daily Diary Report dated 8.3.2020, Ext.AW1/C. We have
not received any complaint in the month of July, 2020 at P.S.
Bilaspur by Kanshi Ram nor it was sent to P.S. Bilaspur by
the S.P Bilaspur for investigation. No record pertains to the
complaint in the month of July, 2020 is available at P.S.
Bilaspur. A complaint dated 3.12.2020 made by Kanshi Ram
at P.S., Bilaspur was received from the office of S.P.,
Bilaspur, which is Ext. AW1/D. On the complaint
Ext.AW1/D, the SHO Bilaspur submitted a report dated
5.12.2020, Ext.AW1/E (objected to on the mode of late
production and proof). The copy of daily dairy report dated
5.12.2020 is Ext.AW1/F. I have brought the original record
which is seen and returned. Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Janesh Gupta, Ld.
Counsel for the respondents/non-applicants xxxxx

 I am posted at P.S. Bilaspur since 2021. It is
correct that in the complaints made by Kanshi Ram, I have
not personally investigated the matter. The I.Os, who had
conducted the investigations on the complaints of Kanshi
Ram, has stood transferred from P.S. Bilaspur. It is correct
that after my posting at P.S. Bilaspur, no further investigation
has been carried out by me on the above said complaints by
Kanshi Ram. It is correct that Ext.AW1/E does not bear my
signature. Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Himanshu Kapila,
learned vice counsel for the proforma respondents xxxxx

 Opportunity given-Nil. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

18th August, 2022
(mamta)
 Statement of Shri Kanwar Bhupinder Singh, Advocate,
for the defendant
 Without Oath
 18.04.2024
 Stated that I give up defendant's witnesses
mentioned in the list filed on 29.04.201 being not required to be
examined. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

18th April, 2023
(ravinder)
 AW-1:- Statement of Shri Om Prakash S/o late Shri
Sant Ram R/o 17, Raelane Norwalk, CT. 006850-U.S.A
 On Oath
 11.07.2022
 In the year 1993, I filed a Civil Suit for
declaration rendering the accounts and partition against the
respondent Rajinder Kumar Sood and others. In the year
September, 2000 this suit was partly decreed. Thereafter I
filed an appeal registered as RFA 365 of 2000, against the
judgment and decree in December, 2000 in the Hon'ble High
Court. Alongwith the suit, I filed an application for
restraining the defendants/respondents from changing the
nature of the suit property, alienation and transfer of the suit
property. On the above said application the Hon'ble Court
granted the stay on 03.01.2001, whereby the
respondent/defendant were restrained from changing the
nature of the suit land and transfer of the suit property. Later
on 05.03.2002 the original stay order was modified to the
extent that any transfer of the suit property shall be subject to
the final outcome of the appeal and in the meantime the
respondents were restrained from creating any third party
equity in the suit property. In the year 2012 in the month of
July, the respondent Shri Rajinder Kuamar Sood had filed a
 case before Assistant Collector II Grade Theog regarding
removal of my name from the specific suit land comprising
Khasra Nos. 1000, 1001, 1002, 1003, 1004 and 1005 situated
at Kalinda, Mohal Matyana Tehsil Theog, District Shimla,
H.P. In the proceedings before the Assistant Collector II
Grade Theog the respondent/defendant Shri Rajinder Kumar
Sood has filed an application wherein he has given my wrong
address and impleaded my younger brother namely Shri
Rajneesh Sood who had expired in the year 1993. He
intentionally made a dead person as a party in the proceedings
and gave his wrong name as Kuka and his address. The
defendant/respondent had also specifically concealed the fact
qua pendency of the RFA No. 365 of 2000 and also the stay
order in effect and he further lied under oath that me and my
brother had left the country 30 to 35 years ago and never
came back to India thereafter to claim their share. The copy
of the application before Assistant Collector Theog is marked
as A-1 and the copies of the order dated 13.07.2012 passed by
the Assistant Collector Theog is marked as A-2. On the basis
of the above said application before the Assistant Collector II
Grade Theog the respondent/defendant Shri Rajinder Sood
had successfully remove my name from the revenue records.
By doing so the respondent has willfully disobeyed and
violated the orders of the Hon'ble Court and he is liable to
punished for contempt of court. The violation of the stay
order is still continuing as of day.
 Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Neeraj Gupta, Ld.
Counsel for the respondents xxxxx

 I have done my Master in Electrical Engineering and
Computer Sciences. It is correct that I am well conversant
with English and Hindi languages. It is correct that I had not
personally gone through the plaint in the civil suit filed by me
in the year 1993. Self stated that at that time I had gone
through the plaint, however, the appeal was filed before the
Hon'ble High Court through my general power of attorney.
Again stated at the time of filing of the appeal I was at USA.
It is correct that during the proceedings of the civil suit I was
regularly attending the hearings in the Court. It is correct that
in that civil suit my statement was recorded in the Court. I
was consistently following the proceedings in the court
through my Advocate by telephone. In September, 2000 I
came to know that the suit has been partly decreed through
my counsel engaged at that time. It is incorrect that my suit
was dismissed by the Court of District Judge Shimla. It is
correct that I was attending the proceedings in the High Court
oftenly. I do not remember when for the first time, I had
gone through the contents of the grounds of appeal. Self
stated that in the mean time the counsel was regularly in
touch with me over the phone. It is correct that after filing of
the appeal my counsel confirmed me that the appeal had been
filed and the stay has been passed by the Hon'ble Court. It is
correct that after passing of the interim order I came to know
 about the nature of the order passed by the Hon'ble Court in
my appeal. It is correct that the subsequent modification of
the stay order was within my knowledge through my counsel.
It is correct that the present contempt proceedings has been
filed me after going through the contents of the contempt
application. It is incorrect that the stay/interim order was
completely modified by the court subsequently. It is correct
that there is no order in the stay application after order dated
05.03.2002. I do not remember exactly for how many times I
visited in India in the year 2009-10. Self stated that on an
average I use to come after about two years. In the year 2011-
12 probably, I visited India twice or thrice, as there was some
dispute regarding apple crop with respect to suit property.
Self stated that this fact was also hidden in the proceedings
before the Assistant Collector II Grade Theog by the
respondent. I come to the suit property during the apple
seasons and whenever I used to visit India. It is correct that in
the year 2011, during apple crop season, I visited Matyana
and I met the respondent personally and asked him to divide
the apple crop as well as the suit property. It is incorrect that
I had quarrel with the respondent Shri Rajinder Sood in the
year 2011. Again stated that we had a quarrel and a police
complaint was filed by the respondent against me with respect
to stealing of the apple crop by me. It is correct that for that
police complaint the proceedings were initiated and it went to
the SDM. My statement was recorded before the SDM. It is
 incorrect that in the proceedings before the SDM Theog the
statement of the respondent was also recorded as he was not
present in that hearing. I am not aware any order dated
24.09.2011 in proceedings under Section 145 Cr.PC before
the SDM Theog. I do know whether any inquiry was being
conducted by the police in that proceedings. I do not have
any idea that the then SDM had marked the inquiry to the
Tehsildar Theog pertaining to the police complaint. It is
correct that to lookafter the Orachard one Gorkha who works
for PWD used to remain in the Orchard. I do not remember
the name of that Gorkha. I met that Gorkha in the Orchard
whenever I used to visit Orchard/suit property. I met him in
the year 2011 alongwith the respondent. It is incorrect that in
the year 2011 I forcibly tried to take away the apple crop in
spite of the resistance from the said Gorkha. It is incorrect
that due to forcibly taking away the apple crop the
proceedings under Section 145 of Cr.P.C. registered against
me. I have never read Section 145 Cr.P.C. and I do not know
about the order passed by the SDM Theog in that
proceedings. Self stated that when I asked the Gorkha about
other than 70 boxes of apple I was told by him that the
respondent had already taken them with him. Due to which I
took rest of the 70 boxes with me. It is incorrect that after
holding of inquiry and orders of the SDM the proceedings
were closed. It is correct that statement mark X bears my
signature within red circle RX. It is incorrect that while
 making a statement Mark X on 21.09.2011 I disclosed my
resident of VPO Matyana, Tehsil Theog, District Shimla, H.P.
and also resident of VPO Amb District Una. Self stated that I
have also disclosed the SDM about my permanent resident of
USA. It is correct that in the appeal No. 3-VIII/15-15 under Section 14 of the Land Revenue Act filed by me before
SDM/Collector my address have been mentioned as VPO
Matyana, Tehsil Theog, as well as resident of 17, Raelane
Norwalk, CT. 006850-U.S.A. Self stated that the Matayna
address has been mentioned in my appeal because the
respondent has mentioned my Matyana address in the
proceedings. It is incorrect that the respondent has violated
the order of the Hon'ble High Court in any manner. It is also
incorrect that the application for contempt of court is
misconceived. It is incorrect that in order to harass the
respondent the contempt proceedings has been filed against
him falsely as he is in possession of the suit property. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

11th July, 2022
(subhash)
 AW2:- Statement of Shri Sunil Kumar, Clerk in the office
of Divisional Commissioner Shimla. On Oath
 11.07.2022

Stated that I have brought the requisition record pertaining to
Case No. 2/2012 titled as Rajinder Kumar versus Om Prakash
and another decided on 13.07.2012 by the Assistant Collector
II Grade Theog. This record has been tagged alongwith the
Revision No. 137 of 2015 pending adjudication before the
Divisional Commissioner Shimla, titled as Rajinder Kumar
versus Om Prakash . As per the record brought by me the
application mark A1 now Ext. AW2/A and order dated
13.07.2012 mark A2 now Ext. AW2/B are correct. (Original
seen and returned). Xxxxx Cross examination by Shri Neeraj Gupta, Ld. Counsel
for the respondents xxxxx

 It is correct that as per the record brought by me today
the appeal against the order dated 13.07.2012 was filed before
the SDM Theog by Shri Om Prakash which was registered as
Case No. 3-VIII/15-15. The said appeal is still pending
adjudication before SDM Theog. It is correct that as per the
 record brought by me from Divisional Commissioner Shimla,
Revision Petition instituted by Shri Rajinder Kumar against
Shri Om Prakash pertains to impugned order dated
23.02.2015 in Revenue Appeal No. 3-VIII/15-15. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

11th July, 2022
(subhash)
 Om Prakash versus Rajinder Kumar COPC No. 349 of 2014 11.07.2022
Present :- Shri Gautam Sood Ld. Counsel for the
 applicant. Shri Neeraj Gupta, Sr. Advocate with Mr.
 Shri Pranjal Nunjal Ld. Counsel for the
 respondent. Statements of Shri Om Prakash and Shri
Sunil Kumar are recorded. The ld. counsel for the
applicant has stated that applicant has moved an
application under order 7 Rule 14 CPC for placing on
record some documents. However, the same is not on
record, due to which the other witness, Shri Narender
Kumar from the office of Tehsildar Amb, present today
could not be examined accordingly he is discharged for
today. The petitioner has paid diet money to the officials
witness present today. Let the case be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders in view of the
application under Order 7 Rule 14 CPC . Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th July, 2022
(subhash) Civil Suit No. 31 of 2015 01.08.2022
Present :- Shri Anubhav Chopra, Advocate, vice Shri
 Rahul Singh Verma, Advocate, for the
 Plaintiff. Shri Shriyek Sharda, Senior Assistant
 Advocate General, for defendant No.1 and
 2-State. Shri Hemant Sharma, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Aman Sood, Advocate, for defendant
 No.3. The matter was listed before learned
Registrar (Vigilance) today. Due to shifting of the
Vigilance Branch, the matter was sent to learned Registrar
(Rules) but due to shifting of the Rules Branch also the
matter was sent to learned Registrar (Administration) for
recording the evidence. As per the note of the learned
Registrar (Administration), he showed his inability to
record the evidence since is busy in convening the
meeting with the Department of Information and
Technology. Accordingly, the matter is taken by the
undersigned. The learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has
submitted that the original counsel is out of station and as
per his instructions no witnesses on behalf of the plaintiff
 are present today. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
seeks one more opportunity for leading the evidence on
behalf of the plaintiff. As per order dated 11.04.2022 of the Hon'ble
Court, last opportunity was given to the plaintiff to lead
its evidence and the presence of the plaintiff's witnesses
was on self responsibility. Since no witness on behalf of
the plaintiff is present today, therefore, the evidence could
not be recorded. Further, last opportunity was afforded to
the plaintiff to lead evidence, therefore, no extension of
time can be granted by the undersigned for leading
evidence by the plaintiff. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st August, 2022
 (Pritam)
 Meenu Behal versus Biru Ram and others Civil Suit No. 33 of 2016 03.08.2022
Present: - Shri Chander Shekhar Sharma, Advocate for
 the plaintiff. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate for defendants
 No. 1 to 4. Shri K.R. Kashyap, Advocate for the
 respondent No.5. The ld. Counsel for the plaintiff has submitted
that the OMP No. 693 of 2021 dated 30.11.2021 is still pending
for adjudication whereby the defendant No.5 has prayed for the
permission to re-file the written statement on behalf of the
defendant No.5. The perusal of the case file shows that though
the written statement on behalf of defendant No.5 is on file, but
without the decision of the said application the same cannot be
said to be on record. The ld. Counsel for the defendant No.5
has prayed that the above said application shall be listed in the
Hon'ble Court for its adjudication so that the right of the
defendant No.5 should be protected in the present case. Today
the plaintiff, her husband namely Shri Rajneesh Behal,
Vishwanath Sharma, and Chhabinder Thakur are present,
however, one witness namely Madan Lal Behal is not present
despite his due service. The Ld. Counsel for the defendant No.5
submitted that in that eventuality, the witnesses, who are
present in the court today could not be examined without the
adjudication of the above said application i.e. OMP No. 693 of
 2021 in the present civil suit. The Ld. Counsel has submitted
that the matter be adjourned in the interest of justice. The
opposing counsels have not opposed the prayer of the Ld.
Counsel for defendant No.5. The diet money to the witnesses
has been paid today in cash. In view of the submissions of the
ld. Counsels for the parties, let the matter be listed in the Court
for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd August, 2022
 (subhash)
 Pancham versus Arun Kumar and another CMP (M) No. 61 of 2020 In
 RSAST No. 28925 of 2019 AW1:- Statement of Shri Rakesh Sharma S/o late Shri
Pancham /o Khajan P/o Sadwan, Tehsil Nurpur, District
Kangra, H.P. age 48 years. On Oath
 04.08.2022

 Stated that in the year 2016 my father was suffering
from dementia and during his ill health he died on
25.08.2018. The copy of the death certificate is Ext.
AW-1/A. (Original seen and returned). During the lifetime
of my father, my father never disclosed me, my brothers and
my mother about any pending civil litigation in the courts as
my brothers use to stay away from our native place. After the
death of my father I received a notice on 12.10.2018 from the
Court of Civil Judge Court No.2, Nurpur in an Execution
Petition. Thereafter we went to our advocate Nurpur and
apprised him about the notice. Thereafter our advocate
informed us that a case/civil suit for vacant possession filed
by Shri Arun Kumar against my father has been decreed on
03.08.2013. Our counsel also informed us that thereafter my
father had filed an appeal before the Appellate Court and the
 same had also been dismissed on 08.09.2016. Thereafter we
applied for the certified copy of the judgments and decree of
the Court of Civil Judge Nurpur on 10.05.2019 and same was
received by us on 14.05.2019. The certified copy of the
judgment of the Appellate court was found by us in our house
in the box in which my father used to keep the documents.
On finding the certified copy of the Courts we came to know
about the civil litigation going between my father and Shri
Arun. Thereafter we filed the appeal against the judgment
dated 08.09.2016 before the Hon'ble High Court. The delay
in filing the appeal neither intentional nor willful but due to
the above stated reasons. Xxxxx Cross examination by Ms. Anu Tuli Advocate Ld.
Counsel for the respondents xxxxx

 Presently I am unemployed. Self stated that up till 2018
I use to work in a private company at Solan. I have not
brought any authority letter to adduce evidence on behalf of
my brothers. We have not placed on record any medical
record regarding ill health of my father since the year 2016. I
am not aware that except the present litigation another civil
litigation was also going on between my father and Shri Arun.
It is correct that one another RSA bearing No. 308 of 2018
was also pending in the Hon'ble High Court in which I and
my brothers being legal heirs have represented in that case.
It is correct that the said RSA bearing No. 308 of 2018 has
 been decided by the Hon'ble High Court on 17.09.2019. It is
incorrect that we have not filed the present appeal within time
intentionally and the same has been filed belatedly in order to
drag the respondent into unnecessary litigation. It is correct
that on 08.09.2016 when the Appellate Court decided the
appeal my father was alive. We have nuclear family. I have
not brought any document today which shows that my family
is separated and stands registered as separate family. I have
brought my Addhar card today. It is correct that the address
on my Addhar card and the memo of the parties of the present
application are same. It is incorrect that I am residing on the
present address for the last 40 years. It is correct that all the
cases were seriously contested by my father in the courts
during his lifetime. At the time of death of my father he was
about 85 years old. It is incorrect that we use to
accompanying him due to his old age to the Courts during the
dates fixed by the Courts. It is correct that we have not
annexed the copies of the CDI forms for applying the certified
copies of the judgments of the Court. I have gone through the
contents of the application before signing the same. It is
incorrect that I am deposing falsely. It is incorrect that just to
harass the respondent I have filed the present application and
appeal. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 R.O & AC

4th August, 2022
(subhash)
 Pancham versus Arun Kumar and another CMP (M) No. 61 of 2020 In
 RSAST No. 28925 of 2019 Statement of Shri O.C. Sharma, Ld. Counsel for the
applicants. Without Oath
 04.08.2022
 Stated that I do not want to lead any further evidence

and close the evidence on behalf of the applicants. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

4th August, 2022
(subhash)
 Pancham versus Arun Kumar and another CMP (M) No. 61 of 2020 In
 RSAST No. 28925 of 2019 04.08.2022
Present: - Shri O.C. Sharma, Ld. Counsel for the
 applicants. Ms. Anu Tuli, Ld. Counsel for the Non-
 applicants

 Statement of Shri Rakesh Sharma is recorded.
The ld. Counsel for the applicants vide his separated statement
has closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants. The ld.
Counsel for the respondent has submitted that she also wants to
lead the evidence on behalf of the respondents. Let the steps i.e.
PF, diet money and list of witnesses be filed within 10 days.
Thereafter, the process be issued for the service of RWs. Let the matter be listed before the Additional
Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for recording the
evidence of the respondents. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th August, 2022
 (subhash)
 Prem Singh and ors. Vs. Kanshi Ram and others

 CMP No.2831 of 2021 in RSA No.511 of 2016 18.08.2022
Present: - Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Romesh Verma, Advocate for the applicants. Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate for non-
 applicants. Mr. Himanshu Kapila, Advocate, vice
 counsel for proforma respondents. Statement of S.I Mohar Singh is recorded
today. Learned counsel for the applicant vide his separate
statement has given up Shri Shyam Lal, Head Constable, P.S.
Bilaspur. The witnesses at Sr.Nos.1 to 3 in the list of
witnesses have already been given up by the learned counsel
for the applicants as per the Hon'ble Court's order dated
19.4.2022. As per report, AW4 namely Rajinder is duly served,
but he did not put his appearance for adducing his evidence.
Let the bailable warrants to the tune of Rs.500/- be issued
against the witness at Sr.No.4, mentioned in the list of
witnesses, returnable for 12.10.2022. Let the case be listed for remaining AWs on
12.10.2022. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 18th August, 2022
 (mamta)
 Master Abeer Singh v Smt. Savita Sharma and
others Civil Suit No. . 27 of 2018
31.08.2022
Present: - Mr. Rohit, learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Karun Negi, learned counsel for
 defendants No. 1 to 5 and 9 to 11. Mr. Parikshit, learned vice for defendants
 No. 6 and 7. Mr. Sunil Dutt Gautam learned vice counsel
 for defendant No.8

 None for , proforma defendants No. 12 and
 13/State. As per report, the summons could not be
issued to the witnesses for today as the process fee has been
filed on 27.08.2022. Now the process fee has been filed. Let
the case be listed before Additional Registrar (Judicial) for
fixing the date of plaintiff's evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
31st August, 2022
 (Pritam)
 Tushar Vashisht vs Satish Kumar Vashisht &
 Others a/w connected matter. Civil Suit No. 45 of 2017 a/w C.S. No.
 4 of 2019 07.09.2022 C.S. No. 45 of 2017 Present: - Mr. Khem Raj, Advocate, vice Mr. Abhishek
 Banta, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Mr. Ajay Sharma, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Peeyush Verma, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 1 and 2. Mr. Amit Jamwal, Advocate, for defendant
 No. 3. Mr. Ajay Sharma, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Peeyush Verma, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Mr. Khem Raj, Advocate, vice Mr. Abhishek
 Banta, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2.
 Mr. Manoj Sharma, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Rajeev Chauhan, Advocate, for defendant
 No. 3. As per the report, the summons for the
plaintiff's evidence for today i.e. 7.9.2022 could not be issued
as the steps in this regard have not been taken by the plaintiff.
Mr. Khem Raj, learned counsel for the plaintiff, has submitted
that they have filed the list of witnesses yesterday. However,
the perusal of the record shows that the same is not on record.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff Mr. Khem Raj has
submitted that the PF and diet money will be filed within one
week for summoning the witnesses. He seeks one more
opportunity to do the needful. In view of the submission of the
learned counsel for the plaintiff, one more opportunity is
 granted for doing the needful. Let the steps i.e. PF and diet
money be filed within one week and thereafter process be
issued for the service of the PWs. Let the case be listed before
the Additional Registrar for fixing the date of plaintiff's
evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Smt. Ganga Devi since deceased through
 her LRs vs. Smt. Himachali & ors. PW-1:- Statement of Sh. Mohinder Lal, Reader to
 Tehsildar, Mandi, District Mandi, H.P.
 On Oath
 12.09.2022
 Stated that I am posted as Reader to Tehsildar,
Mandi from December, 2019. I have brought the requisitioned
record i.e. registered Will of Smt. Ganga Devi, which has
been registered on registration number 17/2014, dated
27.01.2014. The Will is Ext. PW1/A (five leaves) (Objected
to on the mode of proof). Ext.PW1/A is as per my record.
(Original seen and returned). Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Sunil Chauhan,
Advocate, for the defendants. This will was not executed and registered in my
presence. It is correct that first three leaves of Ext.PW1/A are
original, whereas the 4th and 5th page of Ext.PW1/A are the
photocopies of the attested copy. It is correct that 4 th and 5th
page i.e. Will is not a certified copy from the original. It is
correct that the certified copy is issued only after comparing it
with the original. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

12th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Smt. Ganga Devi since deceased through her LRs vs.
 Smt. Himachali & ors. PW-2:- Statement of Sh. Subhash Chand, Clerk from
 DC office, Mandi, District Mandi, H.P.
 On Oath
 12.09.2022
 Stated that I have been deployed from the SDM
office, Mandi to produce the record today vide Authority
letter, Ext.P-2. I have brought the requisitioned record i.e.
case file pertaining to case No. 77 of 1991 of the proceedings
before Land Acquisition Collector, Beas Satluj Link Project.
The certified copy of the said file is Ext.PW2/A, having pages
from 1 to 32 (Original seen and returned). Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Sunil Chauhan,
Advocate, for the defendants. I do not have any personal knowledge about the
contents of the above said requisitioned record. It is correct
that I never remained in the SDM-cum-LAO, office Mandi. I
do not know that whose land was acquired under that
proceedings. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 R.O & AC

12th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Smt. Ganga Devi since deceased through her LRs
 vs. Smt. Himachali & ors. 12.09.2022
Present: - Mr. Varun Chauhan, vice Mr. Vivek Sharka,
 Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. Sunil Chauhan, Advocates, for the
 defendants. The learned vice counsel for the plaintiff have
submitted that due to ill health the plaintiff, he could not come
today to adduce his evidence. As per Order 18 Rule 3-A CPC ,
it is the mandate of the law that the plaintiff shall be examined
at the first instance before any other witness could be
examined. However, the learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
have submitted that the witnesses which are req uired to be
examined today are only official witnesses. The learned
counsel for the defendants have submitted that since the official
witnesses are to be examined today, therefore, he does not have
any objection in case they are examined before the plaintiff.
Accordingly, the official witnesses i.e. Shri Mohinder Lal and
Shri Subhash Chand are examined today. The learned vice
counsel for the plaintiff have submitted that he will bring the
plaintiff on the next date on his own responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
Registrar(Judicial) for recording the remaining plaintiff's
witnesses. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Bimla Devi vs. Savita Devi & Anr. 13.09.2022
Present: - Ms. Salochana Rana, Advocate, for the
 petitioner. The learned counsel for the parties vide their
separate statements have stated that there are chances of
amicable settlement between the parties and it will be a futile
exercise to record the evidence at this stage. Keeping in view
the statements of the learned counsel for the parties, let the
matter may be listed in the Court at the earliest and preferably
within fortnight. The witness i.e. Smt. Bimla Devi, who is
present today is deferred for the abovesaid reason. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Bimla Devi vs. Savita Devi & Anr. Statement of Ms. Salochna Kaundal, learned counsel
 for the petitioner. Without oath
 13.09.2022
 Stated that the offer for amicable settlement has
not been opposed by me and the same is accepted to my
client. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

13th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Bimla Devi vs. Savita Devi & Anr. Statement of Mr. Mukul Sood, learned counsel for the
 respondents/contemnors. Without oath
 13.09.2022
 Stated that as per the instructions from my clients
they are ready to settle the matter amicably and it may be
listed in the Court for settlement of the dispute. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

13th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Jagdish Chand (since deceased ) through LRs
 Varun Rana & Anr. Vs. Vinod Shandel Civil Suit No. 66 of 2015 16.09.2022
PW-1:- Statement of Sh. Varun Rana s/o late Sh. Jagdish
 Singh Rana, r/o Dayal House, near IGMC Boys
 Hostel, Sanjauli, Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 16.09.2022
 Stated that my father had entered into an
agreement to purchase at village and mauja Chamyana,
Kamlanagar, Bhatakufar with Shri Vinod Shandel, defendant
on 25.11.2012. The total amount of the consideration for the
purchase of flat was Rs. 62,00,000/- (Rupees sixty two lac).
The agreement to sell is Ext.PW1/A. My father had paid an
earnest money amounting to Rs. 11,00,000/- (rupees eleven
lac) for the purchase of said flat to the defendant. The detail
of the payment of the earnest money is already mentioned in
para-5 of the agreement to sell Ext.PW1/A. Due to the ill
health of my father, there was some delay in the payment of
second installment amounting to Rs. 24,00,000/- (rupees
twenty four lac), however, the same could not paid
subsequently. Thereafter my father and myself tried to
contact the defendant but he did not respond. Thereafter the
defendant send a termination letter Ext.PW1/B to my father
through registered letter which was received at about
30.5.2013. After receiving the termination letter from the
 defendant, me and my father personally visited the defendant.
My father was ready and willing to execute the sale deed after
payment of the balance amount, however, the defendant was
reluctant and he straightway refuse to execute the sale deed.
He also told that our earnest money has been forfeited in lieu
of the agreement. Thereafter my father gave notice
Ext.PW1/C through our counsel to the defendant for the
execution of the sale deed through registered post. The postal
receipt and acknowledgement are Ext.PW1/D and
Ext.PW1/E, respectively. Jagdish Chand (since deceased ) through LRs
 Varun Rana & Anr. Vs. Vinod Shandel Civil Suit No. 66 of 2015 My father and me was/is always ready and willing to pay the
balance amount and to execute the sale deed but the defendant
has not executed the sale deed till date nor refunded the
earnest money. Subsequently it came to our knowledge that
the defendant had already sold the said flat to somebody else. Xxxxxxx Cross examination by Shri Naresh Gupta,
Advocate, for the defendant. It is correct that agreement to sell Mark 'X' bears
my father signature in red circle Ext.PW1/F. It is incorrect
that my father had cancelled the agreement to sell on 5.3.2013
(objected to on the ground of late production and beyond
 pleadings). It is incorrect that my father had put his signature
on Mark 'X' in lieu of the cancellation of the said agreement
to sell. It is incorrect that my father had also put his signature
on the last page of the agreement Mark 'X' in lieu of the
cancellation of the said agreement to sell. It is incorrect that
after cancellation of the so called agreement to sell Mark 'X'
the same was handed over to defendant by my father. It is
incorrect that the first cheque which was issued by my father
to the defendant in lieu of the purchase of the said flat was
also dishonoured (object to on the ground that this question is
beyond pleadings). It is incorrect that the defendant informed
the dishonouring of the cheque to my father and thereafter it
was subsequently honoured. So far as I remember the last
payment in lieu of the agreement was to be made by my father
by July 2013. It is incorrect that my father was not having
money for payment of balance consideration till 25.7.2013.
Self stated that he was possessing sufficient money to be
made to defendant
 Jagdish Chand (since deceased ) through LRs
 Varun Rana & Anr. Vs. Vinod Shandel Civil Suit No. 66 of 2015 and for execution of the sale deed. It is incorrect that since
my father was not paying the balance consideration due to
which Ext.PW1/B was issued by the defendant. It is correct
that the reply to the notice Ext.D-1 was issued by the
defendant to my father. It is incorrect that after the receipt of
the Ext.D-1 we did not made any efforts to pay the balance
consideration and to execute the sale deed. It is incorrect that
my father was never ready and willing to pay the balance
consideration as he was not having sufficient money for the
said purpose. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

16th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Jagdish Chand (since deceased ) through LRs
 Varun Rana & Anr. Vs. Vinod Shandel Civil Suit No. 66 of 2015 Statement of Sh. B.S. Attri, learned counsel for
 the plaintiff. Without Oath
 16.09.2022
 Stated that I do not want to examine PW Dev Raj
Kashyap, Senior Associate SBI Secretariat Branch, Shimla
and PW Shri Naresh Gupta, Advocate and close the evidence
on behalf of the plaintiffs. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

16th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Jagdish Chand (since deceased ) through LRs
 Varun Rana & Anr. Vs. Vinod Shandel Civil Suit No. 66 of 2015 16.09.2022
Present: - Mr. B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. Naresh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Statement of plaintiff Shri Varun Rana is
recorded. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs vide his
separate statement has given up Shri Naresh Gupta, Advocate
and Shri Dev Raj Kashyap, Senior Associate, SBI and close the
evidence on behalf of the plaintiffs. Let the steps be taken for summoning the
defendant's witness within 15 days and the matter be listed
before the Additional Registrar(Judicial) for fixing a date for
recording the defendant's evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th September, 2022
 (vs)
 Nikka Ram (Since deceased) through his LRs vs.
 Luder Chand (since deceased) through Ganga
 Devi & Ors. CMP No. 7507 of
 2015 in RFA No.
 317 of 2008
23.09.2022
Present: - Mr. Gurinder Singh Parmar, Advocate, for
 the applicants. Mr. Shorya Sharma, Advocate, vice Mr. Tara
 Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 respondents. The learned counsel for the applicants has
stated that he has filed the power of attorney on behalf of the
applicants today in the Registry of this Court. The learned
counsel for the applicants further vide his separate statement
has stated that the contemnor i.e. Kumari Uma Devi had
already expired, who has breached the order of the Hon'ble
Court, due to which the contempt proceedings are not required
to be pursued further by the applicants. Shri R.S. Verma, Advocate duly appointed as
Local Commissioner in the present contempt proceedings, Om
Prakash and applicant Prem Chand, (one of the applicant) are
present in the court for adducing their evidence. However, due
to the statement of the learned counsel for the applicants, they
are not required to be examined, accordingly, all the witnesses
are discharged. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
appropriate direction in view of the statement made by the learned
counsel for the applicants. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rd September, 2022
 (vs)
 Nikka Ram (Since deceased) through his LRs vs.
 Luder Chand (since deceased) through Ganga
 Devi & Ors. CMP No. 7507 of
 2015 in RFA No.
 317 of 2008

 Statement of Sh. Gurinder Singh Parmar, learned
 counsel for the applicants. Without Oath
 23.09.2022

 Stated that the contemnor i.e. Kumari Uma Devi
had already expired, who has breached the order of the Hon'ble
Court, due to which the applicants do not want to pursue the
present contempt proceedings and also do not want to examine
the witnesses present today. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

23rd September, 2022
 (vs)
 Civil Suit 113 of 2011 11.10.2022
Present: - Mr. Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Rohit, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. Bhupender Gupta, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Ajit Jaswal, Advocate for defendant,
 namely Mira Bindra. Mr. Amit Sharma, Advocate, for defendants,
 namely Surjit Kaur, Udaibir Singh Sodhi,
 Sukhbir Singh,Kumari Manreet Kaur and
 Manbir Singh. Shri S.C. Sharma, Senior Advocate with
 Mr.Arvind Negi, Advocate for defendants
 namely Abma Parsad Kalia and Sanjiv
 Kumar Kalia. Statement of PW-1 Shri Joginder Lal, is recorded.
 Shri Padam Parkash Sharma, Kanungo from the
 Department of Relief and Rehabilitation, Shimla Govt. of
 Himachal Pradesh, is present today but he has submitted
 that he has not brought the entire record requisitioned
 today inadvertently. Due to non-availability of the record
 today with the concerned witness, he could not be
 examined, accordingly, he is discharged for today. As per the report of the concerned Dealing
 Assistant, the witness at Sr. No.4, is served, however, he
 did not put his appearance for adducing his evidence. Let
 the bailable warrants to the tune of Rs.1000/- with one
 surety in the like amount be issued against him. Fresh
 summons be issued for service of the witness at Sr. No.4
 and the witness at Sr. No.1 be also summoned for the date
 which is to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). From the perusal of record, it appears that there is
 some mistake in the amended memo of parties, hence the
 matter first be listed in the Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th October, 2022
 (Pritam)
 PW-1: Statement of Sh. Joginder Lal, Senior
 Assistant, Record Room, High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. On
 Oath
 11.10.2022
 Stated that I have brought the summoned
 record of CWP No. 6304 of 2011. Ex. PW/A is the
 certified copy of the above said Writ Petition (original
 record seen and returned). xxxxx By Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Ajit Jaswal, Advocate for
 defendant, namely Mira Bindra. As per record, the above said writ petition
 was dismissed on 08.03.2017. xxxxx By Mr. Amit Sharma, Advocate, for
 defendants namely Surjit Kaur, Udaibir Singh Sodhi,
 Sukhbir Singh, Manreet Kaur and Manbir Singh. Opportunity given-nil. xxxxx By Mr. S.C. Sharma, Senior
 Advocate, with Mr. Arvind Negi, Advocate for
 defendants, namely Abma Parsad Kalia and Sanjiv
 Kumar Kalia. Opportunity given-nil. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

11th October, 2022
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
AW-2: Statement of Sh. Rohit S/o Shri Naresh
 Kumar, Village Tadoli, P.O. Saru, Pargana
 Udaipur, Tehsil and District Chamba, H.P.
 On
 Oath
 14.10.2022
 Stated that I am permanent resident of above
 stated address. Both the parties to this lis are
 personally known to me. On 04.11.2019, at about 7-8
 a.m., I was going to buy the milk from the market.
 When I reached near to the house of Kaushlya Devi,
 then I saw that some verbal wrangle was going on
 between the family of Kaushlya Devi and Ashok
 Kumar. I heard that Ashok Kumar was requesting
 Kaushlya Devi to stop the construction work, which
 was going on the spot as she herself has taken the stay
 from the Hon'ble High Court of Himachal Pradesh. I
 am aware about the cause of dispute between the
 above said parties. Both the parties have land dispute.
 Both the Courts below at Chamba had given the
 judgment in favour of the father of Ashok Kumar,
 namely Dumnu Ram. Inspite of the request by Ashok
 Kumar to stop the construction work by Kaushlya
 Devi, she did not adhered to the request of Ashok
 Kumar and told Ashok Kumar that she can do
 whatever and she did not bother about the stay from
 the Hon'ble High Court of Himachal Pradesh.
Kaushlya Devi was fixing railing on the disputed
lental and was laying the lental on
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014

the empty land adjacent to the road. At that time Shri
Bal Krishan, Anirudh and Tushar Sharma (son of
Ashok) were also present. On the spot Tushar
Sharma clicked the photographs on that day, which are
marked as A-2 to A-6. Kaushlya did not stop the work
on the spot, however, on the next day Ashok Kumar
told me that he had lodged a Rapat in Daradha Police
Post. Three sons of Kaushlya Devi are serving in
Indian Army. xxxxx By Shri Ajay Sood, Senior Advocate
with Shri Rohit, Advocate for respondent/non-
applicant. Stated that I am working as labourer at my
native place. I was told by Ashok Kumar that his
Khasra No. 1133 and adjacent Kharaa No. also
belongs to him. I am not aware about the Khasra
Number of my house. Today, I have come to Shimla with Ashok Kumar.
Again stated that my house is on Khasra No.
1199/1200. I have not brought any proof regarding
Khasra Number of my house. I have not read the
documents pertaining to the case of the parties. As per
 my knowledge the Hon'ble High Court has granted
status quo order since 2016. I am not aware the month
and the year in which Kaushlya Devi had filed the
appeal in the Hon'ble High Court of Himachal
Pradesh. I am not aware that an FIR was registered
against Ashok Kumar with respect to the quarrel
which had taken place on that day. I am also not
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
aware that one criminal case is pending adjudication at
Chamba Court against Ashok Kumar pertaining to that
quarrel. The lental which is visible in photographs
mark A-2 to A-6 about 8 to 10 years old. I am not
aware as to how old the house which is visible in the
photograph. The railing on the lental was fixed by
Kaushlya Devi on 04.11.2019. I am not aware about
the Khasra No. on which the construction appears to
have been done in photographs mark A-3. The
additional lental adjacent to the road is about 5-6
feets. I am graduate. I am not aware the date on
which the Dussehra and Diwali festivals fell in the
year 2019. It is correct that I have visiting terms in the
house of Ashok Kumar but Ashok Kumar did not
disclosed about the FIR against him qua that quarrel. I
cannot say that the house of Kaushlya Devi had been
constructed in the year 2000. It is correct
 that the house of Kaushlya is adjacent to the road. It
is correct that the people can come on the lental from
the road to the house of Kaushlya Devi. It is correct
that she had affixed the railing to prevent the general
public from coming on to the lental. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

14th October, 2022
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
 Statement of Sh. Karan Sharma, learned
 counsel for the applicants. Without Oath

14.10.2022
 Stated that I do not want to examine Shri
Anirudh Kumar, being repetitive in nature and given
him up. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

14th October, 2022
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014

14.10.2022
Present: - Mr. Anand Sharma, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Karan Sharma, Advocate for the
 applicants. Mr. Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Rohit, Advocate, for the non-applicant. Statement of Shri Rohit as AW-2, is recorded. Learned counsel for the applicant vide his separate

 statement has given up AW-3, namely Shri Anirudh,

 present in the Court today. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that

 he wants adduce some additional evidence for which he

 will move the appropriate application before the Court. Let the matter be listed in the Court for appropriate

 orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th October, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 14 of 2009 a/w Civil Suit Nos. 98 and 116 of 2008, 13 and 29 of 2009. 20.10.2022 Civil Suit No. 116 of 2008
Present: - Mr. Romesh Verma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiffs. Shri Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer for defendant No. 1 and 2 Shri Bhisham Sharma, Advocate vice Mr.
 Inderjeet Singh Narwal, Advocate, for
 defendant No. 3 and 4. Shri Paras Dhaulta, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
 Mohan Goel, for defendant No.5. Mr. M.S. Katoch, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer for
 defendant No. 1, 2 and 5. Shri Bhisham Sharma, Advocate vice Mr.
 Inderjeet Singh Narwal, Advocate for
 defendants No. 3 and 4. Shri Paras Dhaulta, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
 Mohan Goel, Advocate, for defendant No.6. None for defendant No.7. Mr. M.S. Katoch, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer for
defendant No. 1, 2 and 5. Shri Bhisham Sharma, Advocate vice Mr.
Inderjeet Singh Narwal, Advocate for
defendants No. 3 and 4. Shri Paras Dhaulta, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
Mohan Goel, for defendant No.6. Mr. M.S. Katoch, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer for
defendant No. 1, 2 and 5. Shri Bhisham Sharma, Advocate vice Mr.
Inderjeet Singh Narwal, Advocate, for
defendants No. 3 and 4. Ms. Meera Devi, Advocate, for defendant
No.6. Shri Paras Dhaulta, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
Mohan Goel, for defendant No.7. Mr. M.S. Katoch, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer for defendant No. 1, 2 and 5 Shri Bhisham Sharma, Advocate vice Mr.
 Inder Jeet Singh Narwal, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 3 and 4. Shri Paras Dhaulta, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
 Mohan Goel, for defendant No.6. As per office report steps for summoning DWs have

 not been taken due to which summons could not be issued

 to the DWs. Learned Law Officer representing the State

 of Himachal Pradesh, seeks opportunity to do the needful

 for the service of defendants witnesse's. Accordingly, one

 more opportunity is granted in the interest of justice. Let the steps be taken within three weeks,

 thereafter process be issued for the service of DWs

 returnable for the date fixed by the Additional Registrar

 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th October, 2022
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 27.10.2022 Present: has been ordered to be refunded in favour of the State
Government. The order in the Execution Petition was
assailed before the Hon'ble High Court by way of
CMPMO No. 138 of 2011, and vide order dated
25.08.2011, the Hon'ble High Court disposed the said
petition by observing that the plaintiffs shall file
separate suit for quantification of the market value of
the said land of those Mohals. The certified copy of
 the order dated 25.08.2011, in CMPMO No. 138 of
2011, is Ex. PW5/D. Thereafter, in compliance to
order in CMPMO No. 138 of 2011, the plaintiff filed
the present Civil Suit for quantification and
accordingly, the market value of the land in question
of those Mohals. The copy of award passed for the
adjoining land is also appended -3- alongwith the present suit. Copy of market value of
Mohal Bharol, for the year 2008-2009, is Ex.PW4/A
and the copy of the market value of Mohal Palyani for
the year 2008-2009, is Ex.PW4/B. I have also placed
on record the copy of market value of Mohal Daundhi
for the year 2008-2009, is Ex. PW4/C. Copy of the
market value of Mohal Nagchala for the year 2008-
2009, is Ex PW3/A. Certified copy of the market
value of Mohla Daundhi, for the year 2002-2003, is
Ex.PW2/A. Market value of Mohal Bharol for the
year 2002-2003, is Ex.PW2/B and market value of
Mohal Palyani for the year 2002-2003, Ex. PW2/C.
The market value of Mohal Bagla for the year 2002-
2003, is Ex.PW2/D. Copy of market value for the
Mohal Nagchala for the year 2002-2003, is Ex.
PW1/A. I have also annexed the copy of award
passed by Land Acquisition Officer (NHAI), Bilaspur,
dated 05.07.2013, for village Nagchala, Hadbast No.
 219, Tehsil Sadar, District Mandi, which is Ex PW5/E,
for the comparison/ quantification of the similarly
situated land. I have also appended the photocopy of
the circle rates of land for the period 01.04.2014 to
31.03.2015, which also includes Mohals Bagla,
Bharol, Nagchala and Palyani and the copy of the
same is Mark P. Photocopy of the enhanced ex-gratia
relief for death or damaged residential/ industrial
properties during 1984 riots for Mandi district -4- has also been annexed as Mark P1 for the
comparison/ quantification of the land. The compensation granted in lieu of the
acquisition of the land to us is less in comparison to
the lands acquired in the similarly situated Mohals
during that period. xxxxx By Shriayek Sharda, Senior Assistant
Advocate General for defendants. Stated that I have not annexed any
document pertaining to prove the fact that my Nana Ji
was Freedom Fighter. I have obtained the copies of
the market value from the concerned department. It is
incorrect that I have been duly compensated on
account of the then market value of the land. It is
incorrect that due to the subsequent inflation of the
 prices of the land in that Mohals, I have filed a false
case to grave more compensation. Self stated that I
have filed the present suit in compliance of the
direction in CMPMO No. 138 of 2011. It is incorrect
that I am deposing falsely. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

2nd November, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 28 of 2014 Statement of Ms. Nishi Goel, learned
 counsel for the plaintiffs. Without Oath
 02.11.2022

 Stated that I do not want to examine the other
plaintiff Smt. Laxmi Devi, being repetitive in nature. I
also close the evidence on behalf of the plaintiffs. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

2nd November, 2022
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit 28 of 2014
02.11.2022 Present: Learned counsel for the plaintiffs has submitted that the

 correction is required to be made in the issue No.1. Civil Suit 28 of 2014

 Therefore, let the matter be listed in the Court for

 appropriate orders within a week. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th October, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 DW-1: Statement of Sh. B.S. Kapoor, Regional
 Manager (Retd.), The New India Insurance
 Company, R/o Village Badah, P.O. Mohal,
 Tehsil & District Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On
 Oath
 28.11.2022

 In the year 2011-2012, I was working as

 Senior Branch Manager, Kullu. The plaintiff has

 taken the Insurance pertaining to their Hydro Electric

 Power Project from the defendants, which was valid

 w.e.f. 04.03.2012 to 03.03.2013. The same are Ex. PW1/B to PW1/E. During the validity of the above

 said Insurance Polices, due to massive rock/land slide,

 the plaintiff company sustained loss. Due to the loss,

 the plaintiffs raised their claim before the Insurance

 Company and the Branch Office at Kullu of the

 Insurance Company forwarded the claim of the

 plaintiff to Regional Office at Chandigarh for deputing

 the Surveyors to assess the loss of the plaintiff/

 Company. Thereafter, the Head Office of the

 Insurance Company appointed two Surveyors to assess
 the loss of the plaintiff. Thereafter, concerned

surveyor submitted their reports before the Head

Office. xxxxx By Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate for
 the Plaintiff. I am not aware about the outcome of the

reports of the Surveyors. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

28th November, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 DW-2: Statement of Sh. Pramod Kumar,
 Senior Divisional Manager, Divisional
 Office Hamirpur. On oath
 28.11.2022

 In the year 2013, I was posted as Branch

Manager, Branch Office Kullu. The loss of the

plaintiff were assessed by the independent

professional Surveyors of the Company duly

authorized and licensed by Insurance Regulatory and

Development Authority of India. There were two

losses reported under Slandered Fire and Special Peril

policy and business interruptions (fire loss of profit

policy). The loss under Slandered Fire and Special

Peril Policy was processed and settled as per the

recommendation and assessment independent

professional Surveyor firm namely Marulkar &

Company and loss reported under Fire Loss Profit

policy was processed and settled as per the

recommendation and assessment of independent
 professional Surveyor firm M/s S. Soni & Company. Further, the losses were Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 assessed and recommended as per policy terms and

condition, scope and coverage. The Insurance

Company fully agreed with their assessment and

recommendation. The final Surveyor report of S. Soni

and Company is Ex. DW2/A (27 leaves). Thereafter,

addendum report was filed by the Surveyor S. Soni &

Company. The final Survey report Ex. DW2/B, was

filed by Marulkar & Company qua the loss sustained

by the plaintiff (23 leaves). xxxxx By Shri Ajay Vaidya, learned Advocate
 for plaintiff. I am working in the New India Insurance

Co. since July 2005. My education qualification is

B.E. in Computer Sciences and diploma in Fellowship

in General Insurance. Today, I have not brought any

record pertaining to this case. I have gone through the
 reports submitted by the Surveyor qua the loss

sustained by the plaintiff. I do not remember the exact

claim of the plaintiff, which was submitted before the

Insurance Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 Company. Self stated that the loss was not happened

to the plaintiff during my tenure as Branch Manager

Kullu. I do not remember the exact amount assessed

by the Surveyor, however, it was about One Crore

Seventeen Lacs for the loss under Slandered Fire and

Special Peril Policy and about 78 lacs for the loss

under Fire Loss of Profit Policy. I do not remember

what was the indemnity period in that Insurance

Policy. Self stated that I do not remember the

indemnity period which was allowed by the Surveyor

in his report since the claim was settled eight years

back. After completion of the stage one deployment,

the plaintiff have achieved the optimum production as

per the Surveyor report. I do not remember the date
 and moth on which the Plaintiff Company had

obtained the optimum production. I have not seen any

addendum report in the documents filed by the

defendants. However, the same has been placed on

record by the plaintiff itself as Ex. PW1/H. I have

also gone through the addendum report Ex. PW1/H at

the Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 time of processing of the claim. In the addendum

report the Surveyor had assessed an amount about Rs. 5,30,000/-. It is incorrect that I am deposing false and

without any basis. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

28th November, 2022
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit 27 of 2016
28.11.2022 Present:- No.4, of the list of witness and give him up. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th November, 2022
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit 47 of 2009
30.11.2022 Present: Further, the losses were Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 assessed and recommended as per policy terms and

condition, scope and coverage. The Insurance

Company fully agreed with their assessment and

recommendation. The final Surveyor report of S. Soni

and Company is Ex. DW2/A (27 leaves). Thereafter,

addendum report was filed by the Surveyor S. Soni &

Company. The final Survey report Ex. DW2/B, was

filed by Marulkar & Company qua the loss sustained

by the plaintiff (23 leaves). xxxxx By Shri Ajay Vaidya, learned Advocate
 for plaintiff. I am working in the New India Insurance

Co. since July 2005. My education qualification is

B.E. in Computer Sciences and diploma in Fellowship

in General Insurance. Today, I have not brought any

record pertaining to this case. I have gone through the
 reports submitted by the Surveyor qua the loss

sustained by the plaintiff. I do not remember the exact

claim of the plaintiff, which was submitted before the

Insurance Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 Company. Self stated that the loss was not happened

to the plaintiff during my tenure as Branch Manager

Kullu. I do not remember the exact amount assessed

by the Surveyor, however, it was about One Crore

Seventeen Lacs for the loss under Slandered Fire and

Special Peril Policy and about 78 lacs for the loss

under Fire Loss of Profit Policy. I do not remember

what was the indemnity period in that Insurance

Policy. Self stated that I do not remember the

indemnity period which was allowed by the Surveyor

in his report since the claim was settled eight years

back. After completion of the stage one deployment,

the plaintiff have achieved the optimum production as

per the Surveyor report. I do not remember the date
 and moth on which the Plaintiff Company had

obtained the optimum production. I have not seen any

addendum report in the documents filed by the

defendants. However, the same has been placed on

record by the plaintiff itself as Ex. PW1/H. I have

also gone through the addendum report Ex. PW1/H at

the Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 time of processing of the claim. In the addendum

report the Surveyor had assessed an amount about Rs. 5,30,000/-. It is incorrect that I am deposing false and

without any basis. R.O & AC

 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar
(Judicial)

12th December, 2022
 (Pritam) COMS No. 6 of 2019 12.12.2022 Present: Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
 firstly he wants to examine the official witnesses, which
 are mentioned at Sl. No. 1 to 9, in the list of witnesses
 before examination of the plaintiff and her GPA. Learned counsel for the defendant has raised the
 objection that the case is to be opened either by the
 plaintiff or by her GPA and the other witnesses cannot be
 examined without the examination of the plaintiff and her
 GPA or without taking the permission from the Hon'ble
 Court under order 18 Rule 3A of CPC . Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
 he will move appropriate application for examination of
 the other witnesses earlier to the plaintiff and her GPA. Since the objection has been raised by the learned
 counsel for the defendants qua examination of the plaintiff
 and her GPA at the later stage, therefore, the matter is
 required to be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court after
 filing of the appropriate application by the plaintiff for
 taking permission regarding examination of the official
 witnesses at the first instance. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th December, 2022
 (Pritam)
 20.12.2022 Present: 21.12.2022 Present: Company in the name of Shri Tara Business Group

 Private Limited Company. They were directors of the

 said company and they were actively participating in

 the business of the said firm. The Defendant No.1 was

 having its office at Thakur Vatika, Khalini, Shimla

 and registered office at House No.C-4, New Verma

 Apartment Dayton Bear Khana, P.S. Chotta Shimla. In

 the month of July, 2012, the defendants No. 2 to 6

 contacted me for doing the fruit business with them
 and they requested me to associate with them in the

said business. The meeting was conducted in presence

of all the Directors in the office at Khalini, Shimla,

H.P. The defendants had orally agreed that after the

supply of apple on credit basis to them, they will

make the payment within 15 days after the receipt of

the consignment. I have supplied the apple

consignment to the defendants from month of August,

2012 to October, 2012. The record pertaining to

supply of the apple crop is Ext. PW-5/A (three

leaves). The defendants' company make the payment

on different dates for an amount of Rs.1,68, 10,000/-,

the detail of which is Ext. PW-5/B. I received the last

payment from the defendants' company on

22.05.2013. The statement of the accounts pertaining

to the amount of the total apple purchased by the

defendants' company and total payment received from

them by me as well as the balance payment thereof is

Ext. PW-5/C, which bears my signature in red circle

"A". As per the statement, the balance payment,
 which is required to be paid by the defendants'

company is Rs.3,22,70,459/- and in order to pay the

remaining amount the defendants have issued 7

cheques amounting to Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty

Lac) each. I presented the above said 7 cheques in

the bank and all of them were dishonored. Out of

which, I filed four complaints for the dishonoring of

the four cheques, which are pending adjudication in

the District Courts at Shimla. The amount of the

aforesaid dishonored cheques has not been claimed by

me in the present suit. I could not file the complaint

for the three remaining dishonored cheques as the

defendants have assured me that they will make the

payment but when they did not make the payment, by

that time, the time for filing the complaint had

expired. The cheques against which no complaints

were filed are Ext.PW-2/A to PW-2/C. Those

cheques were signed by defendant No.2. The return

memo of aforesaid cheques are Ext. PW-2/D to PW- 2/F. I have supplied 36,952 apple boxes to the
 defendants' company through various trucks, which

were sent to Sector 26, Transport Area, Chandigarh,

and the same were used to be received by defendant

No.2 or his agents. The relevant Challan copies

/Bilties are Ext. PW-5/D-1 to PW-5/D-81. I have

also annexed photocopies of the sale proceeds/bill

book sent to the defendants' company, which is

Mark-A ( 143 leaves). The original bill book of the

sale proceeds pertaining to Mark-A has been stolen. I

have lodged a report regarding the stealing of the bill

book at Police Station New Shimla, on 15.04.2014, the

copy of the complaint is Mark-B and copy of the

DDR bearing G.D. Entry No.12(A), dated 15.04.2014

is Mark-C. I have also made a complaint of cheating

against the Company and its Directors in Police

Station New Shimla, on 14.03.2014 which is Ext.PW- 5/E (4 leaves). When the SHO, New Shimla did not

lodge an F.I.R. on my complaint then I made a

complaint Ext.PW-5/F to S.P.Shimla, and on the

direction, of the S.P. Shimla, SHO Police Station New
 Shimla, lodged an F.I.R.Ext.PW-4/B.

After the investigation the police had sent the

cancellation report, which is pending adjudication in

the Court. I had sent the last consignment to the

defendants on 3.10.2012. Despite repeated requests by

me and the assurance by the defendants, the

defendants did not make any payment to me due to

which I was constrained to file the present civil suit. I

have also annexed copy of the application form under

Section 40 of Himachal Pradesh Agriculture and

Horticulture Produce (Marketing, Development and

Regulations) Act, 2005 for the renewal of my

Registration No.APMC/S&K-04/RMP-113/2011,

which is Mark-D. The copy of Registration number

of the defendants' company and the details of the

Directors at the time of registration is Ext.PW-1/G.

My suit amounting to Rs.2,10,70,459/- shall be

decreed alongiwth interest in my favour with costs. xxxxx By Sh. Jeevesh Sharma and Sh.
 M.S.Thakur learned Advocates for defendants
 No.1 to 4xxx

 I was in the business of fruit and vegetable selling

from the year 2011. It is correct that the business

pertaining to sale and purchase of the vegetables and

fruits is governed by the Marketing Board in the State

and in local level, it is governed by the Marketing

Committees. It is incorrect that in the year 2012, I

was not having license to do the business pertaining to

selling of the fruits and vegetables. Self stated that I

have annexed the document pertaining to my license

which is Mark-D. It is correct that as per the APMC

Rules, the vender has to maintain the register

pertaining to the sale and purchase of the fruits and

vegetables. It is correct that the daily return of sale

and purchase of the vegetables and fruits are required

to be made in the specific form supplied by the APMC

and the same is verified by the APMC officials from

time to time. Self stated that the entire forms are

ultimately submitted to the office of APMC at the end
 of the Financial Year. It is correct that in the above

said register the details pertaining to the vendee and

the quantity of the consignment is also required to be

mentioned. It is correct that 1% of the sale proceeds

is required to be deposited with the APMC as

marketing fee. I have not annexed with my suit any

document pertaining to the fee deposited by me with

the APMC for the year 2012-13. I do not remember

how much fees had been deposited by me in the said

year with the APMC. It is correct that on the deposit

of marketing fee the receipt is issued by the APMC. During the apple crop season, the transportation of the

consignments were done on the basis of availability of

the trucks at that particular time. Generally the bill

books are sometimes in duplicate or in triplicate. The

Bill book Ex.PW-5/D-1 to Ex.PW-5/D-81 is in

triplicate form. It is correct that out of the three copies

one is retained by the consigner, one is sent to the

consignee and one is given to the transporter and the

transporter after getting the receipt on his copy from
 the consignee, returns the same back to the consigner. Self stated that as per our system one copy of the

challan was given to the transporter and the copy of

the sale proceeds/bill book were sent to the consignee. It is correct that on Ext.PW-5/D-1 to PW-5/D-81 or

Mark-A, there is no endorsement qua the receipt of the

consignment by any of the defendants. Self stated that

in our instance when the consignment reaches the

consignee he used to confirm through telephone qua

the receipt of the consignment. I have not placed on

the record copy of the transporter bilty with my suit. Self stated that the bilty issued by me to the

transporter, who randomly come to us for taking the

consignment. The challan books of which is Ext. PW-5/D-1 to PW-5/D-81 are used to be prepared date

wise as per the consignment. Challan No.401 pertains

to date 26.09.2011. It is correct that there is no date in

Challan No.601 and the date of Challan No. 602 is

07.08.2012. The date of Challan No. 605 is

13.08.2012 and the date of challan No. 606 is
 13.08.2012 and thatof Challan No. 607 is 08.08.2012. It is incorrect that the challan book has not been

prepared date wise. It is incorrect that due to the

variation in the dates on the challan numbers, the

challan book has been made on the basis of suitability. It is correct that Ext. PW-5/A to Ex.PW-5/C, no date

has been mentioned. Self stated that the aforesaid

documents were prepared after the finishing of the

apple season. It is incorrect that Ext. PW-5/A to PW- 5/C have been prepared falsely and without any basis. It is incorrect that the turnover of the business is to be

verified from the CA. Self stated that the turnover of

the entire business could be verified from the fee

deposited with the APMC. It is incorrect that while

dealing with the defendants' Company and defendant

No.2, initially I took 10 cheques from defendant No.2

as security cheques. It is correct that the signatures on

the cheques and writing on the body of cheques are

with different pens. Self stated that the cheques were

filled by defendant No.2. It is incorrect that the
 amount has been written by me on the blank cheques. It is incorrect that I have supplied 12,656 boxes to

the defendants' company and the amount of the said

boxes was Rs.1,68,10,000/- which has been duly

received by me. It is incorrect that I have misused the

blank security cheques of defendant No.2. It is

incorrect that I have not supplied 36,952 boxes to the

defendants. It is incorrect that I am not entitled to any

outstanding amount as claimed in the suit from the

defendants. It is incorrect that I am deposing falsely. xxx Sh. Peeyush Verma Advocate, for
 defendants No. 5 and 6 xxx

 It is incorrect that the defendants No. 5 and

 6 never came in contact with me nor any

 agreement was done with them by me. It is

 incorrect that I cannot identify the defendants No.

 5 and 6. It is correct that I have lodged. F.I.R.Ext.PW-4/B at police station New Shimla

 pertaining to the same cause of action. It is

 incorrect that after the lodging of the F.I.R. the
 police officials consistently called me to the

police station, for producing the supporting

documents pertaining to my cause of action. Self

stated that the police officials called me once for

taking the addresses of the defendants. I cannot

say whether any proceedings were recorded by

the police official during the inquiry of my case. I do not know anything about the documents

Mark D-1 to D-6. It is incorrect that overall

superintendence, responsibility and management

of the defendants' company was to be looked

after by the defendant No.2, namely, Sh. Rajeshwer Sarbwal. Self stated that all the

defendants were managing the affairs of the

company. I do not know that the financial affairs

of the company were looked after by the

defendant No.2, exclusively. Self stated that

cheques were issued to me by defendant No.2. I

do not know in April, 2013, defendant No.2

mysteriously disappeared from Shimla. I do not
 know that the defendant No.1, is a private Ltd. Company and liability of the directors is only

 upto Rs.10,000/-. I do not know that on

 19.12.2012, the defendants No.5 and 6 had

 resigned from the directorship of the company,

 which was duly accepted on 24.12.2012 by

 defendant No.2. It is incorrect that there is no

 liability of defendants No. 5 and 6 in the present

 suit. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 R.O & AC

27th December, 2022
 (ravinder) Civil Suit No.11 of 2016 27.12.2022: Mr. Parmod Thakur and Mr. Nipun Thakur,
 Advocates for the plaintiff. Mr. Jeevesh Sharma and Mr. M.S.Thakur,
 Advocates for defendants No.1 to 4. Mr. Peeyush Verma, Advocate for defendants
 No.5 and 6. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has stated
 that no witness has been recorded as PW-1 and the
 statement of witnesses has been started to be recorded
 from PW-2. Accordingly, statement of plaintiff Sh. Satish
 Mehta has been recorded as PW-5. Smt. Suman Lata, Record Keeper, New
 Judicial Record, District Courts Shimla is present with the
 record of the record room. The learned counsel for the
 plaintiff has submitted that the case pertaining to F.I.R. 9
 of 2014 is still pending adjudication before the JMFC
 Court No.6, Shimla and he want to examine the concerned
 clerk pertaining to the F.I.R. 9 of 2014, which is pending
 adjudication in the Court as of date. Accordingly Smt.
 Suman Lata, Record keeper present today is discharged as
 she has not brought the entire record. Let the fresh summon be issued for the service of
 concerned official from the Court JMFC, Court No.6,
 Shimla alongwith the record pertaining to F.I.R. 9 of 2014,
 registered at Police Station New Shimla. Let the summons
 be also issued to Imran Khan, witness mentioned at Sl.
 No.1 in the list of the wittiness for the same date to be
fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th December, 2022
 (ravinder) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 29.12.2022: Mr. George, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Sh. Hans Raj is examined as PW-2 today. Sh.
 Bikham Ram is present today, however, the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff vide his separate statement has
 given up Sh. Bikham Ram, Sh. Bhagirath, Sh. Jagdish
 Chand and Sh. Alam Ram. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for summoning the remaining PWs for
 date to be fixed by him. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 29th December, 2022
 (ravinder)
 PW-2:- Statement of Hans Raj son of Sh. Ram Swroop,
 aged 61 years, resident of Village Dador, P.O.
 Dhaban, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi, H.P.
 On Oath
 29.12.2022
 The parties to the lis are personally known to
me. In the month of October, 2019, the defendants called me and
Bikhu Ram at Ner Chowk, District Mandi, H.P. and they told me
as they want to sell their property i.e. shops, land and house at
Ner Chowk in order to pay the loan amount of the bank.
Thereafter, I and Bikhu Ram contacted the plaintiff Ram Lal and
told him that the defendants are interested to sell their property at
Ner Chowk. The plaintiff Ram Lal was interested to purchase the
property, therefore, he told us to fix a meeting for negotiations
with the defendants and after the negotiations between the parties,
both the parties agreed to make the transaction of the property for
an amount of Rs.1,20,00,000/- (Rupees One Crore twenty lacs).
Thereafter both the parties entered into an agreement i.e. Ext. PW-
1/A in my and Bikhu's presence. My signatures in the agreement
Ext. PW-1/A is within red circle "F". Bikhu has also put his
signatures which are in read circle "E" on agreement Ext.PW-1/A.
The parties to the agreement also appended their signatures on the
agreement in my and Bikhu's presence. The agreement was
typed by document writer Bhagirath and the same was attested by
the Notary Public in our presence. On the date of the execution
of agreement i.e. Ext.PW-1/A, the plaintiff paid an amount of
Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty Lacs) to the defendants through
bank transaction. The plaintiff had also paid an amount of Rs.
5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lacs) four days earlier to the execution of
 the agreement to the defendant No.1-Ashok Kumar. It has been
settled between the parties that within one month from the date of -2- the execution of the agreement the plaintiff will pay an amount of
Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty Lacs) to the defendants and the
parties will get the sale deed executed on or before 30 th May,
2020. Thereafter, I, Ram Lal and Bikhu Ram approached the
defendants to get the sale deed executed in the month of January,
2020 but the defendants prolonged the execution of the sale deed
as they were demanding money. Before the spread of the Covid-
19 Pandemic in the month of March, 2020, we again approached
the defendant for execution of sale deed, but due to the Covid-19
pandemic the same could not be executed. Whenever the plaintiff
paid any amount to the defendants, the receipts to this effect were
got executed which are Ext. PW-1/C-1 to C-9. All the receipts i.e.
Ext. PW-1/C-1 to C-9 bears my and Bikhu's signatures. The
defendants who received the payment at the relevant point of time,
also signed the above said receipts and the same were got verified
and signed by Councilor of Nagar Parished, Ner Chowk. In the
month of January, 2020, the defendant had received an amount of
Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lacs) from the plaintiff without any
receipt on the assurance that the sale deed will executed within a
short period. In the month of early May, 2020, the plaintiff
started to lay the lintel with the permission of the defendants on
the property for which the sale deed was to be executed for which
the plaintiff had given a contract amounting to Rs.4,50,000/- to the
contractor, namely, Hukam Chand. After the laying of the lintel
 on the disputed property the plaintiff put his lock but thereafter the
defendants put their own lock on the said property. On 30th May,
2022, I, Bikhu Ram alongwith the plaintiff visited the house of the
defendants for convincing the defendants to get the sale deed -3- executed. Though the defendants have agreed that they had
received the money but on the pretext of the Covid pandemic they
again prolonged the execution of the sale deed. Thereafter, we
went to the Tehsil at Balh, Ner Chowk, where we found that the
defendants have taken the loan from the bank and the same has not
been returned by them. Thereafter we went to the Indian
Overseas Bank, Ner Chowk, where we came to know that the
defendants had not repaid their loan which was taken by them
against the said property. In spite of the expiry of the date of the
execution of the sale deed the defendants the defendants assured
that they will get the sale deed executed. On 12 th June, 2020,
defendant had received an amount of Rs.14,80,000/- from the
plaintiff vide receipt Ext.PW-1/C. Defendant No.3 also used to
receive the amount from the plaintiff even after the expiry of the
date of the execution of the sale deed as per the agreement. We
also visited the Patwari and it was informed by him that the loan
amount has not been paid by the defendants due to which there is
an entry of the mortgaged is still existing in the revenue record.
Marks A and B are the photographs of the property on which lintel
was led by the plaintiff. Since the defendants have not executed
the sale deed despite taking the money therefore, the plaintiff was
constrained to file the present suit
 xxx Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate for defendants xxx

 I am matriculate and by profession I am an agriculturist and
a shopkeeper. My shop of spare parts is at Dador. I have not
brought the plaintiff to the defendants. Self stated that since the
defendants were inclined their property therefore, I informed the -4- plaintiff about the defendants' intention of selling their property. I
not a real estate agent nor I have got any sale transaction executed
between the parties. I have not signed any other agreement qua
property dealing except this agreement. I have bank account in
the name of my shop at PNB Bank Ner Chowk. It is incorrect
that the receipts Ext.PW-1/C-1 to C-9 were already prepared by
the plaintiff. Self stated that after receiving the payment the same
were executed between the parties. I do not know from where the
plaintiff arranged the money before paying the same to the
defendants to the different intervals. Self stated that the plaintiff
had sold his property in the year 2018. I am not a signatory to the
agreement, if any, executed by the plaintiff qua his property. I
was not present when the plaintiff sold his property and I have not
seen the sale deed executed by the plaintiff in the year 2018 qua
his property. It is incorrect that in the month of May, 2020, the
Corona was at peak and the construction activities were totally
banned. Self stated that the people used to do their construction
work during that period. I do not know how many labourers were
employed by the plaintiff at his site. Self stated that he has given
a contract of construction work to a contractor. It is incorrect that
 on 28.08.2018, the loan of the bank had already been cleared by
the defendant Ashok Kumar and on 09.06.2020 defendant Vinod
Kumar had also repaid their his loan as well as defendant No.3
had also cleared the loan 31.12.2019 of their respective bank vide
Mark-D-1 to D-3. The plaintiff is the Sole Prop. of Santoshi Steel
Industry at Ner Chowk. I do not know the bank account details
of the plaintiff. It is incorrect that due to the poor financial
condition he was not able to pay the entire sale consideration to -5- the defendants. On 30th May, 2020, we have not purchased any
stamp papers for the execution of the sale deed. Self stated that
since it came to our knowledge that the property was mortgaged,
therefore, the execution of the sale deed was not possible. The
plaintiff told that he has given a notice to the defendants. I am
not aware whether any reply of the notice was given by
defendants. It is incorrect that no NOC were provided by the
defendants to the plaintiff alongwith the reply to the notice. It is
incorrect that the plaintiff was not ready and willing to pay the
balance sale consideration due to insufficient funds and has falsely
filed the present suit in order to harass the defendants. It is
incorrect that I am depositing false today since I am a property
dealer and having interest in the transactions. It is incorrect that
all the receipts are manipulated subsequently and no financial
transaction had taken place. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
 29th December, 2022
 (ravinder) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 Statement of Sh. George, learned counsel for the
plaintiff
 Without oath
 29.12.2022

 Stated that I give up Sh. Bikham Ram being

repetitive in nature, Sh. Bhagirath, Sh. Jagdish Singh Thakur

and Sh. Alam Ram, being witness to the admitted documents. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC

29th December, 2022
 (ravinder) CMP No. 14361 of 2021 in RSA No. 492 of 2015 04.01.2023: Ms. Meena Devi, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Bhuvnesh Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Vikrant Chandel, Advocate, for the
 respondent. Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks
 some more time to take steps for summoning the witnesses
 of the applicant. Let steps be taken within fifteen days for
 summoning the witnesses of the applicant, thereafter the
 matter be listed before the Additional Registrar (Judicial)
 for fixing the date of the applicant's witnesses. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 4th January, 2023
 Pritam COPC No. 190 of 2019 04.01.2023: Ms. Salochna Kaundal, Advocate for the
 petitioner. Mr. Het Ram Thakur, Advocate vice Mr.
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for the respondents. Learned counsel for the parties have prayed
 that the matter be listed for recording statement of the
 applicant witnesses in the fourth week of March, 2023. Accordingly, let the case be listed on
 23.03.2023, for recording the statement of remaining CWs.
 Learned counsel for the applicant/complainant has
 submitted that she will produce the petitioner on herself
 responsibility on the date fixed. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 4th January, 2023
 Pritam
 04.01.2023
Present: Kumari Simran Singh and Shri Vikram Singh
 alongwith Shri Ravinder Singh Jaswal,
 Advocate

 An application under Order XXXIII, Rule I
 read with Section 151 CPC has been filed for seeking
 permission to file the suit as an indigent person. The
 same has been presented before me. Let the same be
 processed as per Rules. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 Section Officer (Scrutiny)
 04.01.2023 Present: company qua the business loss incurred by the

 plaintiff-company. Thereafter we verified the record

 i.e. various balance sheets, production records relating

 to different periods of the plaintiff-company. On the

 verification of the various records of the plaintiff- company, we analyzed and computed the business

 interruption loss of the plaintiff-company. We also
 conducted the meetings with the officials of the

plaintiff-company before assessing the loss. After Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 deliberation with the official of the respondent- accompany and after verifying the record of the

plaintiff-company, I prepared the final report Ex

DW2/A, which is duly signed by me. After

submission of the final report, Ex. DW2/A, the

plaintiff-company made a representation for increased

cost of working. Subsequently, I issued addendum

report Ex. PW1/H . As per the Ex. DW2/A, the net

loss was assessed to the tune of Rs.73,52,605/- and in

the addendum increased cost of the working was

assessed as Rs.5,66,969/-. Therefore, according to my

assessment the plaintiff-company is entitled to the

total amount Rs.79,19,574/- as full and final

settlement towards the loss of business interruption/

profit. xxxxx By Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate for
 the Plaintiff. I am associated with the Insurance

Company on and w.e.f. 04.02.1987. I am not aware

that the plaintiff-company had taken four insurance Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 policy pertaining to the business loss caused to the

plaintiff-company. Self stated that neither the insurer

nor the insured provided any policy except the one

considered by me while assessing the loss in my

survey report. The insurance policy which was

provided to me was valid from 04.03.2012 to

03.03.2013. It is correct that the plaintiff-company

suffered the loss in the month of February, 2013. It is

incorrect that there was any kind of indemnity clause

in the insurance company policy to indemnify the

plaintiff-company till they achieve the optimum

generation. Self stated that the loss of business was

technically assessed based on the policy terms and

conditions by considering standard production,

interruption period, annual production and pre- indemnity period. It is correct that while assessing the
 loss I had taken into consideration indemnity period of

91 days. Self stated that abnormal production days of

1.25 days based on the past analysis were reduced and

final interruption was taken as 89.75 days. It is Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 incorrect that as per the policy the indemnity period

should have been upto 1st of November, 2013. In my

final report I have assessed standard turn over on the

basis of terms and conditions of the insurances policy,

which means the same period in the last year for the

interruption days under this policy, adjusted with trend

based on the water flow discharge i.e. monsoon water

flow fluctuations. I have not seen the policy wordings

in the Court file today and due to non-availability, it is

not possible to pinpoint and show the exact clauses of

the Insurance-Company. I was aware the indemnity

period of the Insurance policy, when the addendum

was issued. Self stated that the purpose of issuing

addendum was to allow the increased cost of working

as claimed by the plaintiff-company subsequently. I
 am not aware when the company attained the optimum

generation after issuance of addendum by me. Self

stated that I am not able to understand the word

optimum asked by plaintiff-company, since the loss

has been assessed under business interruption policy Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 based on the procedure as required to assess loss of

profit losses, such as based on standard production

contribution in comparison with the pre-loss period

production adjusted based on the interruption period. It is incorrect that whatever has been stated by me

today is contrary to the terms and conditions of the

insurance policy as well as the policy wording. It is

incorrect that I am deposing false. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

15th March, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 Statement of M.S. Katoch, learned vice counsel
 for the defendants. Without oath
 15.03.2023

 Stated that I closed the evidence on behalf

of the defendant as the list of witnesses has been

exhausted. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

15th March, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit 27 of 2016
15.03.2023 Present:- Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 20th March, 2023
 (Pritam) Cr. MMO No. 67 of 2023 23.03.2023 Present:- Shri Jitender Dua, has filed the solvent security
 bond alongwith the Schedule-I of the properties, sale deeds,
 which are annexed as Annexures A-1 to A-22 and the
 valuation of the above said properties, duly prepared by the
 approved valuer of the Income Tax Department regarding
 each of the properties. Further, alongwith the application,
 the applicant has also furnished solvency certificate
 Annexure X-I, of Shri Jitender Dua and as per the solvency
 certificate duly issued by the approved valuer of the Income
 Tax Department, the total value of the above said properties,
 of Shri Jitender Dua, as per the market rate is
 Rs.,5,83,87,152/-. The solvent security bond is duly
supported by the affidavit of Shri Jitender Dua, wherein he Arb. Case No. 11 of 2020 has specifically averred that the properties mentioned in the
above said Annexures i.e., A-1 to A-22, are free from all
encumbrances. Further, the applicant has also placed on record
the solvent security bond duly furnished by Smt. Seema Dua
alongwith the Schedule-II of the properties, sale deeds,
which are annexed as Annexures A-23 to A-30 and their
valuation reports. Annexure X-1, i.e. solvency certificate
duly issued by the above mentioned approved valuer, shows
that the total value of the properties of Smt. Seema Dua, is
about Rs.1,92,93,035/-. The said solvent security bond is
duly supported by the affidavit of Smt. Seema Dua, wherein
she has specifically averred that the said properties are free
from all charges and encumbrances. Annexure X-1, i.e., solvency certificate duly issued
by the approved valuer depicts that the entire value of the
properties mentioned in Schedule-I and Schedule-II, of Shri
Jintender Dua and Smt. Seema Dua, is about
Rs.7,76,80,187/-. As per the order dated 06.03.2020 of the Hon'ble
Court, the applicants were directed to deposit the entire
award amount in the Registry of this Court alongwith upto
date interest accruing thereon or subject to furnishing of the
solvent security bonds equivalent to the said amount or a
Bank Guarantee in the Registry of this Court. As per the
 award passed by the Arbitrator, the award amount has been
 assessed by the Arbitrator to the tune of Rs. 4,65,57,560/-, Arb. Case No. 11 of 2020 alongwith interest @ of 12% from the date it fell due till its
 realization. Therefore, in view of the solvency certificate duly
 issued by the approved valuer, the solvent security bonds
 furnished by Shri Jintender Dua and Smt. Seema Dua, are
 duly attested and accepted by me. All the papers filed with
 the application be tagged with the case file. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
06th April, 2022
 (Pritam) Cr. MMO No. 67 of 2023 10.04.2023 Present:- AW-3/A. I am fully conversant with the facts of the

present case. Initially in the Lower Court my father

had filed a case regarding encroachment on our land

by the non-applicants/appellants. The Trial Court

gave the decision in our favour. Thereafter, the

present appellants/non-applicants had filed an appeal
 in the First Appellant Court, which was also dismissed

by

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

the First Appellant Court. Thereafter, the present

appellants has filed the appeal before the Hon'ble

High Court and vide order dated 17.04.2017, the Court

stayed the execution of the impugned judgment and

decree passed by the learned Courts below and the

parties were directed not to change the nature of the

suit land and not to create any encumbrance over the

suit land till the final disposal of the main appeal. The

copy of the said order is Ex. AW-3/B. On 14.11.2021,

Madan Lal, Subhash Chand, Parveen Kumar and

Ashwani Kumar (appellants), started to raise

construction of the septic tank over Khasra No.44/1

(disputed land) despite the stay order of the Hon'ble

High Court. On the said date, they (appellants) have

brought JCB machine and started to dig the land. We

tried to convenience them not to disobey the order of

the Hon'ble High Court but they did not pay any heed
 to our request and started to quarrel with us. We also

showed them stay order of the Hon'ble Court. When

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

they did not stop, then we went to Pardhan of our

Panchayat and submitted a written application Mark- `A' alongwith the stay order of the Hon'ble High

Court. The Pardhan of our Gram Panchayat called the

appellants and asked them not to carry out any

construction work on the spot. Inspite of the asking of

the Pardhan of the Gram Panchayat, the appellants did

not stop the construction/digging work. On

15.11.2021, we made an application to ASI Nagrota

Surian Mark-`E', and also apprised about the stay

order of the Hon'ble High Court by annexing the same

with the application. But the Police did not take any

action by saying that the matter is pending

adjudication in the Court. On 14.11.2021, I also

clicked the photographs of the spot from my mobile,

which are Mark-F-1 to F-6. Thereafter, we again

moved an application before the Hon'ble High Court
 and vide order dated 23.11.2021, the parties were

directed to maintain status quo as of date and further

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

directed not to raise any construction by any of the

parties or to change the nature of the suit land. Inspite

of the order dated 23.11.2021, the appellants did not

stop and carried out the construction work. I have

clicked the photographs, which are Mark-G-1 to G-3. Thereafter, we again moved another application in the

Hon'ble High Court and vide order dated 01.12.2021,

the Hon'ble Court directed to provide police

assistance and the SHO Police Station Jawali was

directed to implement the order of the Court. He was

further directed to take the assistance of the Revenue

Authority with respect to the land on which the

construction is going on. Thereafter, the police

personnel from Police Post Nagrota Surian alongwith

the Pardhan and Up-Pradhan, visited the spot on

05.12.2021, and showed the orders of the Hon'ble
 Court to both the parties and directed the parties not to

raise any construction. Thereafter, the revenue

officials accompanied by the police officials prepared

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

the spot report Ex- RW-2/A and recorded the

statement of the parties, which are Ex.RW-1/A and

RW-1/B. The police officials also clicked the

photographs on the said date, which are Mark-A and

Mark-B. Thereafter, on 16.04.2022, police officials

alongwith the revenue officials again visited the spot

and prepared the spot report, which is Ex-RW-2/B.

The appellants have raised the toilet and bathroom on

the disputed land despite the stay orders from the

Hon'ble Court. Therefore, they have breached the

orders of the Hon'ble Court. After preparing the final

report the police official submitted his report in the

Hon'ble High Court. Xxxxx Shri Rahul Thakur, Advocate vice Shri
 Ramakant Sharma, Advocate. The disputed land was demarcated by Field

Kanungo Shri Bhajan Lal after filing of the present

application in the Court. No Local Commissioner was

appointed by the Court. Self stated that there was

direction from the Hon'ble Court to the police to take

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

the assistance from the revenue officials. At the time

of demarcation, me and my father alongwith the

appellants as well as Police and Revenue Officials

were present. At the time of demarcation, the revenue

officials have also brought the Musabi and

accordingly, demarcated the land. It is incorrect that

the appellants have raised the construction over their

own land and we have unnecessarily filed the

complaint against the appellants in order to harass

them. It is incorrect that the demarcation has been

done by the retired Kanungo. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

10th April, 2023
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

 AW-4: Statement of Smt. Kiran Kumari, Pardhan
 Gram Panchayat Ludret, Post Office Ludret,
 Tehsil Dehra, District Kangra, Himachal
 Peradesh. On oath
 10.04.2023

 Stated that in the year 2021, I was Pardhan

of Gram Panchayat Ludret. On 14.11.2021, the

applicants moved an application Mark-D, now Ex. AW-4/A, before me alongwith the copy of the order

dated 17.04.2017 of the Hon'ble High Court. The

application Ex.AW-4/A, bears my signature in red

circle `A'. Thereafter, I asked the appellants to stop

the construction work in view of the orders of the

Hon'ble High Court. However, the appellants told me

that where they are raising construction is not a

disputed land and there is no stay order qua the

disputed land as mentioned in the application of the

applicants. When the Police visited the spot they

called me. I alongwith Up-Pardhan, visited the spot
 and at that time both the parties were present there. The police officials requested the appellants to stop

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

the construction work but the appellants straight way

refused. I again visited the spot second time when the

police alongwith revenue officials visited the spot in

the year 2022. We called both the parties on the spot

but none of the parties came to the spot. The revenue

officials demarcated the land and the police officials

clicked the photographs of the spot and prepared the

report. Xxxxx Shri Rahul Thakur, Advocate vice Shri
 Ramakant Sharma, Advocate. The demarcation was conducted by the

revenue officials in my presence. At that time Field

Kanungo, Patwari and Revenue Chowkidar were

present alongwith the police officials. The

demarcation on the spot was conducted by the serving

Field Kanungo. It is incorrect that the demarcation
 was conducted by the retired Kanungo. It is correct

that at the time of demarcation in the year 2022, none

 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

of the parties came to the spot, despite calling them

by the police officials. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

15th March, 2023
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

 AW-5: Statement of Shri Avinder Singh, ASI,
 Police Chowki Nagrota Surian, District Kangra,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 10.04.2023

 Stated that in the year 2022, I was posted at

Police Post Nagrota Surian. The order dated

17.03.2022 from the Hon'ble High Court, was

received at Police Station Jawali, which was

forwarded to Police Post Nagrota Surian, by SHO

Police Station Jawali, whereby the direction was given

to get the disputed spot identified from the revenue

officials. Accordingly, I alongwith the revenue

official visited the spot on 16.04.2022 and got the spot

identified from the revenue officials. The report Ex. AW-5/A (28 leaves) was submitted in the Court. I

also clicked the photographs Mark-H-1 to H-4 on the

spot from my personal mobile. When I visited the

spot alongwith the revenue officials, the construction

of the bathroom and toilet had already been taken
 place. After the demarcation, the revenue officials

apprised me that the constructions of the bathroom and

toilet has been done on Khasra No.44. Xxxxx Shri Rahul Thakur, Advocate vice Shri
 Ramakant Sharma, Advocate. I have prepared the report EX.AW-5/A, on

the basis of the report/demarcation by the revenue

officials. I have not given any prior notice in writing

to the appellants before visiting the spot. It is incorrect

that I never visited the spot and based my report only

on the basis of revenue officials. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

10th April, 2023
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

 Statement of Shri Mukul Sood, learned counsel
 for the applicants. Without oath
 10.04.2023

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of

the applicants as the list of witnesses has been

exhausted. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

10th April, 2023 RSA No. 481 of 2016 10.04.2023 Present:- Therefore, the Section Officer concerned is directed to make

 the correction accordingly in order to avoid any confusion. Learned vice counsel for the non-applicant

 seeks time for taking steps for RWs. Let steps be taken

 within fifteen days and the case be listed before the

 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of RWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 10th April, 2022
 (Pritam) Cr. MMO No. 131 of 2022 12.04.2023 Present:- Mr. Kanwar Bhupinder Singh,
 Advocate, for the defendant. Statement of Sh. Shivam Karol as DW-2
 recorded today. Learned counsel vide his separate
 stated that the defendant does not want to examine the
 defendant's witnesses mentioned in the list filed on
 29.04.2014 and give them up. Learned counsel further
 submits that now he wants to examine defendant and
 witness mentioned witness at Sl. No.3 in the list of
 witnesses dated 28.03.2019. Learned counsel for the
 defendant further submitted that he will bring the
 defendant at their own responsibility. Let the summons be issued to the witness
 at Sl. No.3 i.e. Mr. Raddibattula Raji Reddy, in the list
 of witnesses dated 28.03.2019, for the date to be fixed
 by the learned Additional Registrar (Judicial). On the
 said date defendant be also produced on self
 responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th April, 2022
 (ravinder) Ex. Pet. No. 27 of 2010 24.04.2023: Present: Ms Drishti Sirswal, Advocate vice
 Mr. Balwant Kukreja, for the
 petitioner/DH

 Shri Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for
 respondent/JDs. As per the office report proclamation
 charges have been deposited and steps for issuing the
 warrant of sale have been taken. Let the warrant of
 sale be issued as per the following shedule:- Thereafter, on 6th April the hooligans/ guests of these
hotels threw the three-four bottles cane of beer spoons and
menu card on the roof of the house of the Pardhan of the
Gram Panchayat, which situated beneth these hotels in the
midnight. Thereafter, the spot was got inspected by the
 Panchayat Pardhan in the presence of ward members and
police on 7.4.2023, and a written complaint was again
submitted the copy of the same is annexed herewith as
Annexure... Inspite of the above stated complaint no
action had been taken by the police __________
 It is further submitted that the now the
comoplaint Gram Welfare Society has no option but to
seek indulgence of this Court for taking appropriate action. 26.04.2023: Accordingly, the petitioner has complied
 with the order of Hon'ble Court dated 03.03.2023, in
 letter and spirit. Therefore, no further order is required
 to be passed. Be processed further. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th April, 2022
 (Pritam)
 It is submitted in the news clipping that matter
relating to cast based discrimination has came into light in
Chikhar School at Shimla. In the month of December, a
complaint has been made by the Principal of the School to
the Deputy Director but no action had been taken. That this incident has come into the light when a
lower caste (Dalit) lady was appointed as mid-day-meal
worker in the school. Out of 40 children, only 20 children
used to have lunch and the other 20 children don't take
lunch prepared by the said lady. As per the news clipping
there are two mid-day-meal worker in the School and when
the food is cooked by the other workers then all the
children used to have food. That during lunch, the children were asked to sit
separately. As per the local inhabitants the same
arrangement is applicable to the Primary School also.
Though the matter was raised before the department but no
action had been taken till date. The teachers who had
raised this issue have been transferred to some other
school. That the President of SMC has feigned ignorance
about such type of incident in the school, though there is
active involvement of the SMC in the working of the
school. That schools are sacred places and such type of
incidents in the school is intolerable, which gives a wrong
message regarding teaching of discrimination between the
children
 CMP No. of 2021 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 AW-1: Statement of Shri Surinder PalS/o Shri
 Mohan Singh aged 57 years R/o Mona Video
 Shop No. 15 Gandhi Chowk Mandi Town,
 District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 28.04.2023

 Stated that I have photo studio at Mandi I do

not Sumit Gulati S/o Shri Ashok Kumar. I have not

clicked any photograph on the stop. I do not remember

today that photograph Mark A-1 to A-5, were

developed in my photo studio by someone. Self stated

that the above said photographs might have been

developed in my studio in October, 2022. Xxxxx Shri , Advocate vice Shri Ramakant
 Sharma, Advocate. I have prepared the report EX.AW-5/A, on

the basis of the report/demarcation by the revenue

officials. I have not given any prior notice in writing

to the appellants before visiting the spot. It is incorrect

that I never visited the spot and based my report only

on the basis of revenue officials.
 R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

28th April, 2023
 CMP No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ashok Kumar S/o Shri
 Tarlok Chand, aged 55 years R/o House No.
 267/12, Ram Nagar Mandi Town, District Mandi,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 28.04.2023

 Stated that a civil dispute pertaining to the

land between me and Shri Devi Singh appellant is

going on from the year 2013. He had filed an appeal

in the Hon'ble High Court whereby vide order dated

17.04.2017, interim direction qua status quo was

ordered to be maintained by the parties, which was

subsequently confirmed on 11.07.2017. Inspite of the

stay order from the Hon'ble High Court, the appellant

forcibly raised the construction on the disputed site by

raising pillars on it for about 6-7 months ago. We did

not make any request to the appellant not to raise any

construction over the disputed land however, they

have asked us not to enter in the disputed land. I

never visited the spot, when the construction was

being raised by the appellant. Photographs Mark A-1
 to A-5, were clicked by my son from his mobile

phone. The above said photographs were developed

by my son from Mona Videos at Mandi. I never

raised any illegal demand from the appellant. The

appellant has raised the construction over the suit land

inspite of status quo order of the Hon'ble Court and

thereby intentionally breached the orders of the Court. Xxxxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate vice Shri
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for
 non-applicant/appellant. It is incorrect that the shops which are

visible in Mark A-1 to A-5, were already constructed

by the appellant before the stay order granted by the

Hon'ble Court. I do not know that the appellant has

raised the construction after the year 2017. Self

stated that I used to reside at a long distance from the

spot and I seldom use to visit the disputed land. It is

correct that the appellant has not raised any

construction after the year 2017. It is correct that I

have not made any complaint to any authority

regarding the construction raised by the appellant after
 the year 2017. It is incorrect that I have filed a false

application just to harass the appellant. It is incorrect

that I am deposing false. Ms. Tanu Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr. Raju Ram
 Rahi, Advocate, for respondents No. 1(a) to 1(j)

 Opportunity given. Nil. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th April, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 AW-1: Statement of Shri Surinder Pal S/o Shri
 Mohan Singh aged 57 years R/o Mona Video
 Shop No. 15 Gandhi Chowk Mandi Town,
 District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 28.04.2023

 Stated that I have photo studio at Mandi. I

do not know Shri Sumit Gulati S/o Shri Ashok Kumar. I have not clicked any photograph on the stop. I do not

remember today that photograph Mark A-1 to A-5,

were developed in my photo studio by someone. Self

stated that the above said photographs might have

been developed in my studio in October, 2022. Xxxxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate vice Shri
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for
 non-applicant/appellant. Opportunity given. Nil. Ms. Tanu Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr. Raju Ram
 Rahi, Advocate, for respondents No. 1(a) to 1(j)

 Opportunity given. Nil. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 28th April, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 AW-3: Statement of Shri Sumit Gulati S/o Shri
 Ashok Kumar, aged 33 years R/o House No.
 267/12, Ram Nagar Mandi Town, District Mandi,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 28.04.2023

 Stated that I have clicked the photographs,

Mark A-1 to Mark A-5 from my mobile phone and the

same were got development in Mona Videos at Mandi

Town. The appellant has constructed the shops prior

to the year 2017. However, they have not installed

shutter at that time. I have clicked the said

photographs in the month of October, 2022 at that

relevant time, the appellant was raising the fresh

construction over the shops and they have deployed

the labour, which is visible in the photographs. The

appellant has intentionally flouted the orders of the

Hon'ble High Court. Xxxxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate vice Shri
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for
 non-applicant/appellant. It is incorrect that the entire construction

visible in the photographs has been done by the

appellant prior to the year 2017. It is incorrect that the

appellant has raised construction during the pendency

of the appeal in the 1 st appellate Court at Mandi. It is

correct that I am not a party in the present litigation. Self stated that I know the entire factual position as

my father is party in the present litigation. It is correct

that no date has been mentioned on the photographs

from which it could be ascertained in which month or

year the same have been clicked. It is incorrect that I

am deposing false. Ms. Tanu Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr. Raju Ram
 Rahi, Advocate, for respondents No. 1(a) to 1(j)

 Opportunity given. Nil. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th April, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 11 of 2017

 28.04.2023: Ms. Pallvi Sharma, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Kulbhushan Khajuria, Advocate, for the
 respondent. As per the office report, receipt regarding

 depositing of the deficient amount i.e. Rs.5,000/- before the H.P. State Legal Services Authority Shimla,

 has not been filed. Learned vice counsel for the petitioner has

 submitted that he has informed his client about the

 deposit of the deficient amount, however, he has not

 turned up for doing the needful. Learned vice counsel

 for the petitioner submitted that the matter be listed in

 the Court. As requested, let the matter be listed

 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd May, 2023
 (Pritam) COPC No. 411 of 2021 AW-1: Statement of ASI Shri Sohan Lal, Ist Bn.
 Junga, Tehsil and District Shimla, Himachal
 Pradesh. On oath
 18.05.2023

 Stated that I have brought the summoned

record today. On 15.08.2021, a telephonic

information was received in the Police Post Karchham

from Mrs. Subodh Bisht, W/o Shri Tejwant Singh. At

the same time one another telephonic complaint was

received from Shri Rohan Bisht, pertaining to the

same incident. Shri Subodh Bisht had made a

complaint that Smt. Man Dasi was not allowing her to

pluck the apple from her orchard. Rohan Bisht also

made a complaint that Mrs. Subodh Bisht and her

children, namely Shubham and Ashwarya are

misbehaving with his mother and they are also stealing

the apples from their orchard. Accordingly, I

alongwith Head Constable Suresh Kumar and

Constable Rahul visited the spot. On inquiry, Mrs.

Subodh Bisht disclosed that she and her labour were
 plucking apples from her orchard but Smt. Man Dasi

restrained her and her labour from plucking the apples

by pelting stones on them and using sticks. Mrs.

Subodh Bisht further disclosed that on the nine apples

trees, adjacent to her house, Shri Rokinder Bisht has

imbibed letter `R' and claiming those trees to him. She further disclosed that she had plucked 35 apple

Crates from those nine trees. Thereafter, I made an

inquiry from Smt. Man Dasi on which she disclosed

that the nine trees adjacent to the house belongs to her

and Smt. Subodh Bisht is plucking the apples illegally

from those trees. I also made an inquiry from Pardhan

Gram Panchayat Kilba (Shri Shankar Bhagat), who

was also present on the spot at that time. The Pradhan

Gram Panchayat disclosed that the said orchard is in

the co-ownership of three brother, namely Laxman

Singh, Rajwant and Tejwant Singh. He further

disclosed that it not possible to ascertain which

particular trees belong to which co-owner. Thereafter,

I called the concerned Patwari to the spot for spot
 verification. The Patwari also disclosed that the said

orchard is in the co-ownership of the aforesaid three

brothers and it is difficult to ascertain which particular

chunk of land and trees belong to which co-owner. Both the parties disclosed to me that a Civil Suit is

going on between the parties and status quo order has

been ordered to be maintained by the Court. There are

about 500-600 trees on the said orchard. As per the

parties, the trees which were down side Doghari

(house in the orchard), belongs to Tejwant Singh and

the trees up side the Doghari belongs to Rajwant

Singh. The dispute was pertaining to nine trees which

were at the level of the Doghari. On the spot, I

received a telephonic call from Police Post that

Rokinder Singh had filed a written complaint

pertaining to this dispute in the Police Post. To that

effect a GD entry No.11 dated 15.08.2021, Ex. AW1/A. was entered. Thereafter, I requested both the

parties to maintain peace and prepared a Kalandra

under Section 107 and 150 Cr.PC. On that day in the
 morning hours, Smt. Subodh Bisht had also brought

two witnesses i.e. former Pardhan of the Gram

Panchayat Shri Kuldip Singh and one Advocate Shri

Sat Pal. Xxxxx Shri Arvind Shrama, Advocate for the
 respondent. The Rapat Number of the complaint of Smt.

Subodh is Rapat No.10, dated 15.08.2021, It is

incorrect that I went to the spot to inquire the Rapat

No.10 of Smt. Subodh Bisht. It is correct that when I

was on the spot pertaining to the inquiry of Rapat

No.10, then Rapat No.11 was entered at Police Post,

Karchham. Rohan Bisht was not on the spot at the

time when I visited the spot. I did not made any

inquiry as to ascertain where the Rohan Bisht was at

that relevant time. Shri Rohan Bisht is Assistant

District Attorney in the Prosecution Department. It is

incorrect that on the asking of Shri Rohan Bisht, we

have entered Rapat No.11 in the Police Post

Karchham. I had sent the Kalandra under Section 107 and 150 Cr.PC to SDM Office, Reckongpeo. I am not

aware of the status of the said case today, since I have

been transferred from that place. It is incorrect that I

am deposing false. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th May, 2023
 (Pritam) COPC No. 411 of 2021 18.05.2023
Present: Ms. Meera, Advocate, vice Mr. Deepak Gupta,
 Advocate, for the applicant/petitioner. Shri Arvind Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent. Statement of ASI Sohan Lal as AW1, is
 recorded today. The other witnesses Shri Rokinder
 Singh and Man Dasi are not present. Learned vice counsel for the applicant/petitioner
 submits that she will produce these witnesses on self
 responsibility on the next date of hearing. At this stage, learned counsel for the respondent
 has raised objection that the present
 application/petition under order 39 Rule 2-A CPC is
 not maintainable, since the order against which the
 present application has been filed has been passed by
 Civil Judge Senior Division, Kinour at Reckongpeo in
 Civil Misc. Application No.32-6 of 2013, in Civil Suit
 No. 54 of 2013 titled as Tejwant Singh versus
 Rajwant Singh . Since the question qua maintainability of the
 present proceedings has been raised by learned counsel
 for the respondents, therefore, let the case be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 3rd May, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 PW-3: Statement of Shri Hukam Chand, aged 47
 years, S/o Shri Sauju Ram, R/o Village Majhtyal,
 P.O. Bhangrotu, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi,
 Himachal Pradesh
 On oath
 29.05.2023

 Stated that I am working as Masson at Ner

Chowk, District Mandi, H.P. The parties to the lis are

known to me. In April 2020, I went to the shop of

Shri Ram Lal for purchasing an Almirah, then he told

me that he had purchased a building and some

construction work is required to be done in that

building. I alongwith Shri Ram Lal visited that

building where Shri Ashok Kumar was also present at

that time. Shri Ram Lal asked me to do certain

construction work in that building whereby I asked

Shri Ashok Kumar whether he has any objection qua

making the construction work in that building, then

Shri Ashok Kumar told me that he has no objection, if

the construction work is carried out in that building by

me, as Shri Ashok Kumar had already sold that
 building to Shri Ram Lal. I entered into an agreement

verbally with Shri Ram Lal to lay the lentil after

demolition of the old lentil and to lay the rough floor,

for an amount of Rs.4,50,000/-, which includes labour

and materials. I started the work in the last week of

April 2020, and completed the entire work in last

week of May, 2020. My shattering, one bundle of

steel rods and cement bags is lying till date in that

premises since Shri Ashok Kumar had put his lock

after breaking open my lock and he had not allowed

me to enter in that premises. Shri Ram Lal had paid

the entire amount in installments to me and nothing

has been left to be taken from him as of date by me. Due to the refusal by Shri Ashok Kumar to take my

shattering and other things lying in that building, I am

still suffering loss. Xxxxx Shri Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate for
 the defendants. I have studied up to 10+1. My house is

about one kilometer from the building, where I have
 done the construction work. I had entered into oral

agreement with Shri Ram Lal for doing his

construction work. It is correct that in the month of

April 2020, there was spread of COVID-19 pandemic. I had not taken any written permission from any

authority qua construction during that period. Self

stated that the police had orally allowed the

construction work at different times of the day during

that period. I did not entered into any written

agreement with any of the parties for whom I had done

the construction works. I had deployed seven-eight

labourers on the construction site of Shri Ram Lal. I

had not maintained any written record qua deployment

of the labour on that site. I cannot tell the names of

that labourers. Self stated that the different Bihari

labourers use to come on different days. I paid their

wages in cash only. I purchased the material from Ner

Chowk itself. I cannot produce any bill today. I did

not make any complaint to the police against Shri

Ashok Kumar, regarding not allowing me to lift my
 material from the site. It is incorrect that neither I

visited the shop of Shri Ram Lal nor he assigned me

any construction work. It is incorrect that I did not

make any construction work on the site. It is incorrect

that no material has been left on the site. It is

incorrect that I am deposing false on the asking of Shri

Ram Lal. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th May, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 PW-4: Statement of Shri Tashi, aged 35 years,
 S/o Shri Tandup Gyacho, R/o Village Surad, P.O.
 Khokhan, Tehsil Bhuntar, District Kullu,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 29.05.2023

 Stated that I am working as Branch Manager
in Indian Overseas Bank at Ner Chowk, District
Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, from 26th May, 2023. I
have brought the original requisitioned record. The
housing loan raised by Shri Ashok Kumar, against
which the property has been mortgaged was closed by
him on 8th October, 2020. The original document/
letter Mark D-2, is not available today with me nor the
copy of the same is available in the Bank record. Shri
Ashok Kumar has not availed a cash credit limit
amounting to Rs.10 lacs, against which the property
was mortgaged with the Bank. Self stated that he had
availed the housing loan from the Bank. At this stage, a document Account Ledger
Inquiry dated 26.05.2023, brought by the witness has
been sought to be placed on record as Exhibit.
Learned counsel for the defendants has raised the
objection as to the admissibility of the document on
the ground of late production as well as the said
 document is not certified as per the Bankers Book
Evidence Act . As the objection has been raised, which can
only be adjudicated by the Hon'ble Court.
Accordingly, the matter is required to be referred to
the Hon'ble Court, qua the admissibility of the
document, which is being sought to be placed on
record. The said document is taken on record and
annexed with the record in part-B (noting part).
Hence, the cross examination is deferred. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th May, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 29.05.2023
 Present: Mr. George, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Statement of Shri Hukam Chand is record as
 PW-3. Shri Tashi, Branch Manager, Indian Overseas
 Bank, Ner Chow, District Mandi, H.P., is also present
 and examined. However, during the course of
 examination in Chief, learned counsel for the plaintiff
 tendered a document i.e. Account Ledger Inquiry
 brought by the said witness to which learned counsel
 for the defendant has raised objection qua its
 admissibility. Learned counsel for the defendants has
 requested the matter be referred to the Hon'ble Court
 for its adjudication and appropriate orders. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted
 that he will move appropriate application before the
 Hon'ble Court qua the adjudication about the
 admissibility of the said document within a week. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court after receiving the application from the plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th May, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 6553 of 2020 RSA No. 602 of 2019
01.06.2023
Present: Ms. Seema K. Guleria, Advocate, for the non- Applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for respondents No. 1 and 3 (a
 to e) applicants. Respondent No.2 ex-parte vide order dated
 12.07.2021. Today the case was listed before District and
 Sessions Judge (L/TR) and vide his today's order, the
 Ld. District and Sessions Judge (L/TR), recused to
 record evidence as the First Appeal in this matter has
 been decided by him on 17.08.2019. The matter was
 ordered to be listed before the undersigned for
 appropriate orders. On receiving of the file, the undersigned directed
 the matter be listed before him today itself for recording
 the evidence as witnesses of the applicant are present. At this stage, learned counsel for the applicant
 submits that the witnesses present today have been send
 back inadvertently. Due to the non-availability of witnesses they
 could not be examined. Let fresh PF be filed within a
 week and thereafter, fresh process be issued for the
 service of the applicants witnesses at Sr. No. 1 to 3,
 mentioned in the list of witnesses, for the date to be fixed
 by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 1st June, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

 AW-4: Statement of Shri Manu, aged 34 years,
 S/o Shri Hiru Ram, R/o Village Dholag, P.O.
 Kalol, Tehsil Jhandutta, District Bilaspur,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 14.06.2023

 Stated that I am a shopkeeper and I am into
the business of photography. I also develop
photographs at my shop, which is situated at village
Kalol (Bakain), District Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh.
On 30.01.2017, I visited the disputed site on the
asking of the applicant Shri Sarwan Kumar. I clicked
the photographs of the disputed site on that day on
the asking of Shri Sarwan Kumar from my mobile
phone. Thereafter, I develop the photographs Exhibit
AW4/A-1 to AW4/A-5 (objected to on the mode of
proof). xxxx Mr. Shrawan Dogra, Senior Advocate
 with Mr. Tejasvi Dogra, Advocate for the
 respondent. I don't have any shop license with regard to
photo studio. I do not have any independent photo
studio. Self stated that I have photocopier, photo
printer and other accessory to develop the
photographs in my shop. I do not have any
professional camera for clicking the photographs and I
 used to take the photographs from my mobile, if some
person require my services. It is correct that I have
changed my mobile once in the year 2020. It is
correct that I have not clicked the photographs from
my present mobile. I cannot produce the mobile
phone from which I have allegedly clicked the above
said photographs. Shri Sarawan Kumar, is my uncle
(Chacha Ji) in relation. It is incorrect that I do not
know about the disputed property of the present lis.
Self stated that since the property in dispute is
belonging to our family due to which I know the entire
facts about this property. I do not know the specific
Khasra Numbers, on which the houses have been built
by the parties. No demarcation had taken place at any
point of time in my presence. It is correct that I have
clicked the photographs which has been specifically
pointed to me by the applicant. Shri Mohar Singh is
known to me. It is correct that I have not issued any
certificate pertaining to the photographs clicked
digitally from my mobile. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false on the asking of the applicant who
happens to be my uncle. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th June, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

 14.06.2023
 Present: Mr. Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for the applicant. Shri Sharwan Dogra, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Tejasvi Dogra, Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Manu is recorded as AW4.
 Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that he
 will produce the applicant on the next date of hearing on
 his self responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar for fixing the next date for remaining applicant
 witnesses. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th June, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 47 of 2019 23.06.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 Petitioners/objectors/non-applicant. Mr. Tarun Jeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for the
 Respondent/applicant. As per office report, proper solvent security
 certificate has not been furnished by the
 applicant/respondent in compliance to the order dated
 04.05.2022. Learned counsel for the applicant/respondents
 seeks two weeks more time for doing the needful. Let
 the case be listed after two weeks on furnishing the
 proper solvent security certificate as directed by the
 Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rdJune, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Execution Petition No. 10 of 2019

 23.06.2023
 Present: Mr. Hamender Singh Chandel, Advocate for the
 petitioners. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 respondent. As per the office report, steps for the summoning
 of the witnesses have not been taken due to which the
 summons could not be issued to the witnesses for today. Learned Deputy Advocate General seeks some
 more time for taking steps. Let the steps be taken within
 one week, thereafter, the process be issued for the
 service of the respondents witnesses for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rdJune, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 PW-3: Statement of Shri Deepak Saini, aged 37
 Proprietor M/s Vishal Haryana Freight Carrier
 Head Office Plot No.33, New Timber Market,
 Transport Area Sector 26, Chandigarh (R/o
 Village Sangohi, Post Office Sangoha, Tehsil and
 District Karnal, Haryana-132001). On oath
 30.06.2023

 Stated that I am transporter by occupation. I
do my business at Parwanoo, Chandigarh and State of
Maharashtra. My business is in the name of Vishal
Haryana Freight Carrier. Shri Subhash Chauhan,
plaintiff is known to me from the last five-six years. I
use to provide transport to his apple consignments
from Parwanoo. We use to transport his apple
consignment at different parts of the country.
Whenever, a truck is booked on behalf of consigner
we use to prepare a bilti to that effect. Three copies of
the bilti are being prepared, one of which is given to
the consigner, second copy is given to the Driver and
third copy is also handed over to the Driver to be
delivered to the consignee. The photocopies of the
bilties are prepared in my office/Firm which are Mark
P-1 to P-83. We use fill in the bilti the place from
where the consignment has been booked and the same
is/ was to be delivered. The name of the consigner
and consignee are also mentioned in the bilti. xxxx Mr. Ravinder Malik, Advocate for the
 defendants. I am the owner of the Firm, having Branch
at Parwanoo, Chandigarh. Self stated that the main
owner of the above said Firm resides at Nasik,
Maharashtra. It is correct that I am Branch Manager
of the above stated Firm. I do not know Shri
Bhagwan Dass (Defendant No.2). I have visited
Azadpur Mandi at Delhi. I am aware that whenever a
truck enter in Azadpur Maddi a slip is issued by the
APMC at entry point of the Mandi. Probably there is
no bilti, which has been placed on record today i.e.
Mark P-1 to P-83 pertains to Azadpur Mandi. It is
incorrect that we do not keep the record of the bilties
which are issued to the parties. Self stated that we use
to keep the record for one-two years. It is correct that
I have not brought any record pertaining to the bilti
Mark P-1 to P-83. I came to know about the present
case two years ago. Plaintiff has not disclosed
anything to me prior to the filing of the present case.
The copy of the bilti is issued to the Driver so that he
can obtain receiving of the consignment from the
consignee and he should not have any problem in
receiving freight. It is correct that in Mark P-1 to P-83
there is no signature of the consignee pertaining to
 receiving of the consignment. The driver do not use to
deliver his copy to our Firm. It is correct that in all the
bilti i.e. Mark P-1 to P-83, the name of Bhagwan Dass
(defendants) has not been mentioned as consignee.
Self stated that we use to right abbreviation in the
name of consignee at the instance of the plaintiff.
However, I do not know the proper full form of the
abbreviations, we use to right in the bilties. I came
here today to adduce my evidence on the asking of
plaintiff. I came to know that I have been cited as
witness in the present case. It is correct that I do not
know anything about the dealings between the parties
to the lis. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam)
 COMS NO. 13 of 2019

 30.06.2023
 Present: Mr. Prem P. Chauhan, Advocate for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Ravinder Malik alongwith Mr. Kartik,
 learned counsel for the defendants. Statement of Shri Deepak Saini is recorded as
 PW3. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks some
 time to produce the remaining plaintiff witnesses
 including plaintiff. Let same be produced on self
 responsibility on the next date of hearing to be fixed
 by the Additional Registrar (Judicial)

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam)
 COMS NO. 11 of 2019

 14.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Shivalik Bhaik, Advocate, vice Ms. Shalini
 Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Romesh Verma, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Hitesh Thakur, Advocate, for defendants. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has
 submitted that due to bad weather condition and
 blockade of roads at different places, the plaintiff
 witnesses could not appear to adduce their evidence
 today. However, learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff has submitted that on the next date of
 hearing they will produce the witnesses at his slef
 responsibility. Let the case be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for
 remaining plaintiff's evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th July, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Revision No. 266 of 2021

 14.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Pavinder Thakur, Advocate vice
 Mr. Anirudh Sharma, Advocate, for the
 petitioner. None for the respondent. Learned counsel for the petitioner seeks one
 week's time to file compliance affidavit in pursuance
 to the order dated 19.04.2022 passed by the Hon'ble
 Court. Let the case be listed on 25.07.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th July, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 21.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Amit Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri H.S. Upadhaya, Advocate, for defendant/
 counter claimant. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted
 that PW-3, Shri Anup Kumar, could not come to the
 Court today for his cross examination due to the
 blockade of road at different places as he has to
 come from Delhi. Learned counsel for the plaintiff
 further submitted that he will produce PW-3 on his
 self responsibility on the next date of hearing. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of plaintiffs
 evidence/cross examination of PW-3. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st July, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Revision No. 266 of 2021

 25.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Anirudh Sharma, Advocate, for the
 petitioner-applicant. None for the respondent

 As per office report, compliance affidavit has
 been filed by the applicant-petitioner. Learned
 counsel for the applicant has submitted he had
 already deposited 10% of cheque amount i.e.,
 Rs.5000/- with H.P. State Legal Service Authority,
 Shimla, vide Receipt No. 3881, on behalf of the
 petitioner-applicant and the receipt to the same had
 already been placed on record, which is at Page No.
 53 of the case file. Since the applicant has complied the order
 dated 19.04.2022, therefore, no further order is
 required to be passed. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th July, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 78 of 2016 27.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 defendant. As per office report, process fee and list of
 witnesses have been filed but the diet money has not
 been deposited for summoning the plaintiff's
 witnesses. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will produce the plaintiff on its own
 responsibility, however, he will deposit the diet
 money for the other plaintiff's witnesses within a
 week. Let the diet money be deposited within a week
 and the case be listed for recording the statement of
 the plaintiff on 22.09.2023. The other witnesses as
 mentioned in the list of witnesses will be summoned
 later on. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th July, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Revision No. 268 of 2021

 25.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Anirudh Sharma, Advocate, for the
 petitioner-applicant. None for the respondent

 As per office report, compliance affidavit has
 been filed by the applicant-petitioner. Learned
 counsel for the applicant has submitted he had
 already deposited 10% of cheque amount i.e.,
 Rs.5000/- with H.P. State Legal Service Authority,
 Shimla, vide Receipt No. 3883, on behalf of the
 petitioner-applicant and the receipt to the same had
 already been placed on record, which is at Page No.
 53 of the case file. Since the applicant has complied the order
 dated 19.04.2022, therefore, no further order is
 required to be passed. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th July, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 47 of 2019 26.07.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 petitioners/objector/non-applicant

 Ms. Swati Verma, Advocate, vice Mr. Tarun
 Jeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for the
 respondent/ applicant. As per office report, documents pertaining to
 solvent security has been furnished by the learned
 counsel for the applicant, but perusal of the same
 shows that the bonds qua solvent security has not
 been furnished by any of the authorized
 representatives of the Society of which the
 documents pertaining to the property has been
 placed on record. Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks
 one week's time to do the needful. Let the case be
 listed on 07.08.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th July, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 79 of 2016 27.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 defendant. As per office report, process fee and list of
 witnesses have been filed but the diet money has not
 been deposited for summoning the plaintiff's
 witnesses. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will produce the plaintiff on its own
 responsibility, however, he will deposit the diet
 money for the other plaintiff's witnesses within a
 week. Let the diet money be deposited within a week
 and the case be listed for recording the statement of
 the plaintiff on 22.09.2023. The other witnesses as
 mentioned in the list of witnesses will be summoned
 later on. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th July, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 77 of 2016 27.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 defendant. As per office report, process fee and list of
 witnesses have been filed but the diet money has not
 been deposited for summoning the plaintiff's
 witnesses. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will produce the plaintiff on its own
 responsibility, however, he will deposit the diet
 money for the other plaintiff's witnesses within a
 week. Let the diet money be deposited within a week
 and the case be listed for recording the statement of
 the plaintiff on 22.09.2023. The other witnesses as
 mentioned in the list of witnesses will be summoned
 later on. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th July, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 405 of 2019
 28.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Ranjna Patial, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the appellant. None for the respondent. As per the order of Hon'ble Court dated
 06.07.2023, the serving officer was directed to appear
 before the undersigned today i.e. on 28.07.2023, to get
 his statement recorded in respect of proclamation
 proceedings conducted by him. Learned Deputy Advocate General has shown
 correspondence dated 23/24 June, 2023, and stated that
 they have sent the above said letter to the Superintendent
 of Police, Shimla and informed him/her that the matter
 has been adjourned for 06.07.2023. But learned Deputy
 Advocate General has failed to show that they have
 made any correspondence to the concerned authority or
 to the serving office in compliance to order dated
 06.07.2023 of the Hon'ble Court. Therefore, it appears
 that no information has been sent to the serving officer
 or the authority under which he is serving , regarding
 order dated 06.07.2023, due to which he might not have
 put appearance for getting his statement recorded today
 before the undersigned. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court on the date already fixed by the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 432 of 2018 28.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate, for appellant. (a) and 1 (b)

 In compliance to the order dated 28.07.2023 of the
 Hon'ble Court, the parties to the lis put appearance
 before the undersigned and have appended their
 signature on the application under Order 23 Rule 3, read
 with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CMP
 No. 6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018). The parties
 have been identified by the respective counsel. The
 copies of Aadhar Cards have also been placed on record.
 Statement of the parties have also been recorded, which
 is also appended herewith. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court on
 the date already fixed by the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 432 of 2018 Statement of Shri Ramesh Thakur, aged 77 years
 S./o Shri Krishan Chand Thakur, R/o Shanti Vihar
 Kasumpti, P.O. Kasumpti, Tehsil and District
 Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Statement of Shri Balak Ram, S./o Shri Ramesh,
 aged 42 years R/o Vikas Nagar, P.O. Kasumpti,
 Tehsil and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the appellant. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam)

and the same are agreeable to me. I have entered into
the said compromise voluntarily without any coercion
and undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 432 of 2018 Statement of Shri Balak Ram, S./o Shri Ramesh,
 aged 42 years R/o Vikas Nagar, P.O. Kasumpti,
 Tehsil and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the appellant. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 432 of 2018 Statement of Shri Dinesh, S./o Shri Ramesh, aged
 37 years R/o Vikas Nagar, P.O. Kasumpti, Tehsil
 and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the appellant. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 432 of 2018 Statement of Shri Ramesh Thakur, S./o Shri
 Krishan Chand aged 77 years R/o Shanti Vihar,
 P.O. Kasumpti, Tehsil and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the respondents. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 433 of 2018 28.07.2023
 Present: Mr. Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate, for appellant. (a) and 1 (b)

 In compliance to the order dated 28.07.2023 of the
 Hon'ble Court, the parties to the lis put appearance
 before the undersigned and have appended their
 signature on the application under Order 23 Rule 3, read
 with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CMP
 No. 6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018). The parties
 have been identified by the respective counsel. The
 copies of Aadhar Cards have also been placed on record.
 Statement of the parties have also been recorded, which
 is also appended herewith. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court on
 the date already fixed by the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 433 of 2018 Statement of Shri Balak Ram, S./o Shri Ramesh,
 aged 42 years R/o Vikas Nagar, P.O. Kasumpti,
 Tehsil and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the appellant. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 433 of 2018 Statement of Shri Dinesh, S./o Shri Ramesh, aged
 37 years R/o Vikas Nagar, P.O. Kasumpti, Tehsil
 and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the appellant. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th June, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 433 of 2018 Statement of Shri Ramesh Thakur, S./o Shri
 Krishan Chand aged 77 years R/o Shanti Vihar,
 P.O. Kasumpti, Tehsil and District Shimla, H.P.
 On oath
 28.07.2023

 Stated that I have entered into the
compromise with the respondents. The terms and
conditions have already been mentioned in the
application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC (CMP No.
6926 of 2023 in RSA No. 432 of 2018) and the same
are agreeable to me. I have entered into the said
compromise voluntarily without any coercion and
undue influence. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th July, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
AW-3: Statement of HC Inder Singh, No. 23, TCP
 Barrier Tunnuhatti, District Chamba,
 Himachal Pradesh
 On Oath
 04.08.2023
 Stated that in the year 2019, I was posted as
 Head Constable at Police Post Daradha, District
 Chamba. On 6.11.2019, I received a complaint from
 Shri Ashok Kumar (applicant), Mark A-7. After
 receiving the above said complaint Mark A-7, I
 entered the DDR No.9, dated 06.11.2019 at Police
 Post Daradha, copy of which is Mark A-9. I have not
 brought the original record since the same has not
 been asked to be produced. xxxxx By Shri Ajay Kumar, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Rohit, Advocate for
 respondent/non-applicant. It is correct that before making the
 complaint by Shri Ashok Kumar on 06.11.2019, an
 FIR No. 295 of 2019, dated 05.11.2019, had already
 been lodged against Shri Ashok Kumar under Section
 452 , 427 , 504 , 506 and 34 IPC. It is correct that
 challan qua the above said FIR has already been
 submitted in the Court. xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
 At this stage, learned senior counsel for the
applicant wants to re-examine this witness on the new
facts which has been adduced by him in his cross
examination. The opposing counsel has stated that he
has no objection to that effect, accordingly, the
witness is allowed to be re-examined by the learned
senior counsel for the applicant. I have not brought the original record. Self
stated that I have brought the copy of the DDR
alongwith me to re-fresh my memory. It is incorrect
that I am stating false without any basis and on the
asking of the other party. It is incorrect that I have
been approached by the other party due to which I am
deposing false. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

4th August, 2023. (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
 Statement of Shri Karan Sharma, Advocate,
 for the applicant
 Without Oath
 04.08.2023
 Stated that I do not want to examine Shri
Ajay Kumar, S/o Shri Tilak Raj, Proprietor Jalpa
Printer, Village Devidehra, Tehsil Dalhousie, District
Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, being won over,
therefore, I give him up. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

4th August, 2023. (Pritam) RSA No. 223 of 2014 04.08.2023
 Present: Mr. Anand Sharma, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Karan Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant.
 Shri Ajay Kumar, Senior Advocate with Mr. Rohit,
 Advocate, for the non-applicant. Statement of HC Inder Singh has been recorded as
 AW-3. Learned counsel or the applicant vide his
 separate statement has given up Shri Ajay Kumar.
 Learned counsel for the applicant further submits that he
 will bring the witnesses namely Shri Tushar Sharma and
 Shri Anirudh Kumar, on their own responsibility on the
 next date of hearing. There is no need to issue the
 summons to the aforesaid witnesses. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of remaining
 applicants evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 47 of 2019 07.08.2023
 Present: Mr. Rohit Sharma, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the Petitioners/objectors/non-applicant. Ms. Swati Verma, Advocate, vice Mr. T.S. Bhogal,
 Senior Advocate, for the Respondent/applicant. As per office report, bond qua solvent security has
 not been furnished. Learned vice counsel for the
 respondents-applicant seeks time as the original counsel
 is undergoing treatment at PGI, Chandigarh, due to
 which needful could not be done. Learned vice counsel further submits that
 she requires at least three weeks time to do the needful.
 Let the case be listed on 24.08.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 09.08.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Rohit, Advocate, for the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that due
 to bad weather and blockade of road at different places,
 the plaintiff's witnesses who have to come from
 Jharkhand and Bihar could not come to the Court today
 for adducing their evidence. Learned counsel further submits that he will bring
 the plaintiff's witnesses on self responsibility. Learned
 counsel further requested that let the plaintiff be first
 examined and the other two witnesses will be examined
 thereafter. Learned vice counsel for defendant has no
 objection to that effect. There is no need to send the
 summons to any of the witnesses. Therefore, let the plaintiff be produced on the next
 date of hearing, to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial), for recording the statement of the plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No.80 of 2010 14.8.2023
Present: None. Vide order dated 14.7.2023, additional issues have been

framed by the Hon'ble Court and the plaintiff has been allowed to

adduce his evidence. As per the office report, steps for the summoning

of the plaintiff's evidence have been taken. Let the summons be issued

for the service of the plaintiff's evidence for the date to be fixed by

Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14.08.2023
 (Chander)
 CMP No.6553 of 2020 in RSA No. 602 of 2019

AW-1: Statement of LC Pratibha, No.1067, PAR,
 Vikasnagar, Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 17.08.2023
 Stated that I am posted as LC at PAR

 Vikasnagar from the last five years. I have brought the

 requisitioned record. On the information received

 Police Help Line from Deep Chauhan through his

 Mobile No.76500-79259, Rapat No.4 was entered at

 PAR Vikasnagar on dated 21.6.2020, which is

 Ext.AW-1/A. After entering Ext.AW-1/A, the Police

 Party headed by HC Rameshwar along with Ct. Ajit,

 No.1486 was sent to the spot to verify the dispute in

 question. After visiting the spot, the Police Party got

 entered the Rapat No.07, qua arrival of the Police

 Party at Police Station, which is Ext.AW1/B. The

 Rapat No.07 was entered by HHC Beena, No.1388. (Original seen and returned). xxxxx By Ms. Seema Guleria, Advocate for
 respondent/non-applicant. As per the record, Rapat No.4 was entered

at PAR Vikasnagar at about 8.55 AM and the Police

Party was sent to the spot immediately. It is correct that I have not entered the Rapat Nos.4 and 7 personally. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

17th August, 2023. (Chander)
 CMP No.6553 of 2020 in RSA No. 602 of 2019
AW-2: Statement of HC Rameshwar Singh,
 presently posted in State CID, Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 17.08.2023
 Stated that in the year 2020, I was posted as

 HC at Police Assistant Room, Vikasnagar. On

 receiving the complaint from Sh. Vijay Chauhan and

 Sh. Deep Ram, a Rapat No.4 (Ext.AW-1/A) was

 entered at PAR Vikasnagar. Thereafter, I along with

 Ct. Ajit Kumar, No.1486 went to the spot for

 investigation. On the spot, I met complainant Vijay

 Chuahan and the other party Gopi Chand. Sh. Vijay

 Chauhan gave one written complaint Ext.AW-2/A to

 me on the spot and informed me that Sh. Gopi Chand

 is raising the unauthorized construction on the spot

 inspite of the stay order from the Hon'ble High Court. I noticed that some labourers were doing the welding

 work on the parking which had already raised on the

 spot. In inquired from Sh. Gopi Chand regarding

 welding work being done on the spot then he informed
 me that the civil litigation is already going on between

them since 2009. Sh. Gopi Chand further informed me

that he had already won his case in the District Courts. He further informed me that after the winning of the

case, the Khasra Nos. 1251 and 1247 have been

recorded in the revenue record in his name. He further

informed me that Sh. Deep Chand and Vijay Chauhan

had filed appeal against the District Court's order in

the Hon'ble High Court in which he has obtained the

stay in the appeal against Deep Chand and Vijay

Chauhan. Both the parties failed to produce the copy

of stay order at that time. Thereafter, I recorded the

statement of Sh. Gopi Chand which is Ext.AW-2/B.

Ext.AW/1/A and Ext.AW/2/B (in original produced by

LC Pratibha-AW1) seen and returned. After due

completion of the investigation on the spot, on my

return, I got entered Rapat No.07, (Ext.AW-1/B) at

PAR Vikasnagar. xxxxx By Ms. Seema Guleria, Advocate for
 respondent/non-applicant. It is correct that I was not aware about the

Khasra numbers in dispute. Self-stated that the same

were informed to me by the parties present on the

spot. It is correct that I have not brought along with

me any revenue officials for confirming the Khasra

numbers on the spot. It is correct that no RCC

construction was being raised by the respondent Gopi

Chand at the time when I visited the spot. It is correct

that only repair/welding work was being done by

Sh. Gopi Chand at that time. It is correct that I have

not recorded the statement of other party or any other

person present on the spot at that time. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

17th August, 2023. (Chander) RSA No. 602 of 2019 17.08.2023
 Present: Mr. G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Ms. Shruti Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Ms. Seema Guleria, Advocate for the non-
 applicant. Statement of LC Pratibha and HC Rameshwar
 Singh are recorded as AW-1 and AW-2 respectively.
 As per the office report, the other witness Sh.
 Chaman Lal is duly served. The learned counsel for
 the applicant has submitted that due to the death in
 his relation, he could not come to the Court today.
 Let the witness namely Chaman Lal be again
 summoned on taking the steps within seven days. The learned counsel for the applicant further
 submitted that he will produce the applicants Sh.
 Vijay Chauhan and Deep Chauhan on their own
 responsibility. Let the case be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 remaining AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th August, 2023
 (Chander) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 21.08.2023
 Present: Mr. Dev Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate vice Mr. Janesh
 Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. As per office report steps for summoning PWs
 have not been taken. Learned counsel for the
 plaintiffs seeks some more time for taking the steps. Let the steps be taken within one week
 thereafter the process be issued for service of
 plaintiff witnesses for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st August, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMPMO No. 4854 of 2019 in RSA No.164 of 2019
 23.08.2023
 Present: Mr. Sumit Sharma, vice counsel for Mr.
 Romesh Verma, Senior Advocate for the
 applicant/appellant. Mr. Het Ram Thakur, learned vice counsel for
 the respondent. The learned vice counsel for the applicant has
 submitted that the remaining AWs i.e., Sh. Sunil
 Kumar could not be produced in the Court today for
 adducing his evidence due to the inclement weather
 and blockade of the roads at different places. He
 further submitted that on the next date of hearing, the
 applicant will produce Sh. Sunil Kumar on its own
 responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the remaining AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rd August, 2023
 (Chander) Arb. Case No. 47 of 2019 24.08.2023
Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 petitioners/objector/non-applicant.
 Mr. T.S. Bhogal, Advocate, for the
 respondent/applicant. Learned for the respondent/applicant has
 moved an application for furnishing the solvent
 security bonds in compliance to the order dated
 04.05.2022. The security bond of Shri Ashutosh
 Jhina S/o Shri J.C. Jhina has been furnished
 alongwith the copies of Jamabandies for the year
 2016-2017 obtained on 05.07.2023 alongwith the
 certificate of the President of Pine Breeze Co-
 operative Society, list of share capital and deposit of
 the share holders in the Society as well as reports of
 the Patwari of the concerned Patwar Circle and the
 circle rates of the land in the concerned area. As per
 the Jamabandies the land comprised in Khata Nos.
 22,23 and 24, Khatauni No. 30,33 and 34, belongs to
 the Pine Breeze Coperative Society. As per the
 certificate issued by the President Pine Breeze Co-
 operative House Society, Shri Ashutosh Jhina is the
 Member of the said society and is share holder in the
 land mentioned in the above said Jamabandies to the
 extent of 1/12 share. Further, as per the certificate
 Shri Ashutosh Jhina is holder of the land measuring
 2 Bighas and 6 Biswas and the value of the same is
 Rs.1,05,95,554.80 according to the value calculated
 on the basis of Govt. circle rates 2023-2024. As per Arb. Case No. 47 of 2019 the note mentioned in the Jamabandies annexed with
 the application, the said land is free from all
 encumbrances. Shri Ashutosh Jhina respondent/
 applicant has been duly identified by Shri T.S.
 Bhogal, Advocate. In the affidavit Shri Ashutosh
 Jhina has deposed that his share in the above said
 property is free from all encumbrance as of date and
 he will not transfer or alienate the above said
 property in any manner till the final disposal of the
 present petition. I have gone through the order dated
 04.05.2022, 11.04.2023 and 04.05.2023 and the
 documents annexed with the application for
 furnishing the solvent security bonds. Accordingly,
 the solvent security bonds furnished by the
 respondent/applicant is duly attested and accepted by
 me. Let the matter be processed further in
 compliance to the order dated 04.05.2022 of the
 Hon'ble Court. All the papers be tagged with the
 file. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th August, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 405 of 2019
 Statement of HHC Subhash Chand No. 779,
 Police Post Taklech, Police Station Rampur,
 District Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 24.08.2023
 Stated that on 23.02.2023, the MC, Police

Post Taklech, handed over me proclamation notice for

affixing the same at some conspicuous place of

Village Khurbai in which Raj Kumar used to reside. In compliance to that I affixed the copy of

proclamation at Bus Stop Khorbai and the

proclamation was read over to the general public

present at that time in the presence of Sushma Devi

and Poma Devi. On the same day, i.e. on 23.02.2023,

the second copy of proclamation notice was affixed at

Gram Panchayat Kuhal in the presence of Up-Pardhan

Mahender Singh and the same was read over to the

general public present there at that time. The

signatures of Up-Pardhan were obtained on the copy

of proclamation. Further, on 24.02.2023, the third
 copy of the proclamation notice was affixed on the

Notice Board of the Session Court Rampur, District

 Criminal Appeal No. 405 of 2019
Shimla, H.P., in the presence of HASI Bhupesh No.

1267 and the signature of HASI was obtained on the

copy of the proclamation notice. Thereafter,

affixation of proclamation notices at the respective

places, I send the compliance report to the Police

Station Rampur. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24th August, 2023. (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 405 of 2019
 24.08.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 appellant. None for the respondent. Statement of HHC Subhash Chand, Serving
 Officer, who has published the proclamation is
 recorded today. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court
 on the date already fixed. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Ex. Pet. No. 27 of 2010 24.08.2023: Present: None for the petitioner/DH
 Shri Het Ram, Advocate vice
 Mr. Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for
 respondent/JDs. Steps for issuing proclamation and
 warrant of sale have been taken. Let the warrant of
 sale be issued as per the following schedule:- 25.08.2023: Present: Mr. Peeyush Verma, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Mr. Amit Himalvi, vice Mr. M.S.
 Katoch, Advocate, for defendants No.
 1 and 2. As per office report summons issued for
 the service of PWs mentioned at Sl. No. 1 to 3 in the
 list of witnesses are still awaited. Learned counsel for
 the plaintiff submits that none of the witnesses has
 appeared or contacted him today. Learned counsel
 further submits that he will bring the plaintiff on the
 next date of hearing for adducing his evidence on self
 responsibility. Let one witness at Sl. No. 1 in the list
 of witnesses be also summoned for the said date on old
 PF. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of the plaintiff's
 evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th August, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 96 of 2010 26.08.2023: Present: None. It appears that today the case has been
 inadvertently fixed for evidence since it is Saturday
 and non-working of the Court. As per office report, summons issued to
 the additional PW for today is still awaited. Let fresh
 summons be issued for service of additional PW on
 the old PF for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th August, 2022
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No.10109 of 2020 in RSA No. 453 of 2008

 28.08.2023: Present: Mr. Shekhar Badola, learned vice
 counsel for the respondent/ applicant. Mr. Tarun Brakta, learned vice
 counsel for appellant/non-applicant. As per office report the list of witnesses,
 PF, road and diet money has not been deposited for
 summoning the witnesses. The learned vice counsel
 for the applicant/respondent seeks two weeks' time for
 taking the steps. Let the steps be taken within two weeks.
 Thereafter, the process be issued for the service of
 AWs, for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th August, 2022
 (Chander) Civil Suit No. 45 of 2015 29.08.2023
 Present: Ms. Tanu Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr. Ajay
 Kumar Dhiman, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. R.L. Verma, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 1 and 3. None for defendant No.2. As per office report, steps for summoning of
 the plaintiff's witnesses have not been taken, therefore,
 the summons could not be issued. Neither the plaintiff
 nor any witness is present today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks some
 more time to take steps for PWs. As per office report, list
 of witnesses has been filed but the plaintiff has neither
 filed the process fee nor deposited road and diet money
 despite four opportunities granted by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Therefore, the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 PW-1. Statement of Shri Chuni Lal, Senior
 Assistant Electrical Sub Division, Sanjauli,
 Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 31.08.2023
 Stated that I am posted as Senior Assistant

in the office of Assistant Engineer (Electrical) Sub

Division Sanjauli, Shimla from the year 2004. I have

brought the requisitioned record. The Account No. of

electricity connection of Smt. Vidya w/o Shri Tarlok

Chand bearing contact No. SSK1000029. the said

electricity meter is installed in Kothi Vakil Khanna,

Shankli, Shimla-1. The file pertaining to the said

account number of Smt. Vidya Devi is not traceable in

our office due to the outbreak of the fire in our office

in the year 1988. I have brought the certificate

pertaining to the destruction of record which is Ex. PW1/A., and the same has been duly issued by the

Assistant Engineer. (Objected to on the ground of

mode of proof). The Assistant Engineer Shri Parmod

Sharma has signed Ex.PW1/A, in red Circle-A. He is
 competent to issue this certificate. I have also brought

the certified copy of the Ledger Account EX. PW1/B,

pertaining to the electricity connection of aforesaid

Vidya Devi. (objected to on the ground of mode of

proof). Ex.PW1/B has been issued by Assistant

Engineer City Electrical Sub Division under his

signature. The signature of the Assistant Engineer

duly identified by me which is in red Circle -A (two

leaves). The application as well as sanction order

have been burnt during the outbreak of the fire in the

year 1988. The application and the sanction order as

well as file pertaining to the installation of the

electricity connection in favour of Shri Tarlok Chand

has also been burnt in the said fire. The certificate

pertaining to the destruction of the said file is Ex. PW1/A. I have brought the Ledger Account

Ex.PW1/C duly issued by the Assistant Engineer

pertaining to Account Number DBAL1000467,
 installed in building known as Kothi Vakil Khana

Shankli, Shimla-1. I have brought the copy of application,

Service Connection order dated 28.08.1997 of

electricity connection pertaining to Shri Rakesh

Kumar S/o Shri Tarlok Chand bearing Account No.

1111400497, ID No. 100001133373, installed in

building known as Kothi Valik Khaana, Shankli,

Shimla-1. I have not brought the original record

pertaining to the above said copies, which are Mark-X

(application two leaves), Test Report Mark Y and

Sanction Order Mark Z alongwith Estimate Mark Z1

as well as NOC Mark Z2. I have also brought the

certified copy Ex. PW1/D (six leaves) of the Ledger

Account of electricity connection pertaining to Shri

Rakesh Kumar. The electricity bills of the above

mentioned electricity connections of Vidya Devi,

Rakesh Kumar and Tarlok Chand are Mark X-1 to X- 11.
 At this stage, learned Senior Counsel for

the plaintiff submits that the recording of the statement

of witness be deferred as the objection has been raised

by the learned Senior Counsel for the defendant No.1,

as the original record has not been brought. Accordingly, the statement of this witness is deferred

for today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st August, 2023. (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 PW-2. Statement of Ms. Babli Dharta,
 Registration Clerk, O/o Sub Registrar
 Shimla, (Urban), D.C. Office, Shimla-1. On Oath
 31.08.2023
 Stated that I am working as Registration

Clerk in the Office of Sub Registrar, Shimla (Urban),

D.C. Office, Shimla from the year 2018. I have

brought the requisitioned record. As per the record

brought by me the Sale Deed having Registration No.

141, was registered in our office on 28.06.1996,

certified copy of which is Ex. PW2/A. (Objected to on

the ground of mode of proof). As per my record, Ex- PW2/A is true and correct copy issued by the Sub

Registrar (Urban), Shimla. I have also brought the

original record pertaining to Sale Deed No. 307, dated

15.12.1992, duly registered in the office of Sub

Registrar (Urban), Shimla. As per my record the

certified copy of the said Sale Deed is Ex. PW2/B.

(Objected to on the ground of mode of proof). As per
 my record, Ex-PW2/B is true and correct copy issued

by the Sub Registrar (Urban), Shimla. xxx xxx xxx By Shri Neeraj Gupta,
Senior Advocate with Ms. Rinki Kashmiri,
Advocate, for defendant No.1. It is correct that I am not aware who was

Sub Registrar Shimla (Urban) on 28.06.1996 and

15.12.1992. At the time of registration of Sale Deed

two original copies are being submitted in the

Registration Office, out of which one copy is retained

and pasted in the concerned Book kept in the

Registration Office and the second copy is returned to

the parties after due registration. I have brought the

second office copies of the Sale Deeds, which were

kept in our office at the time of registration. It is

correct that when the above said sale deed were

registered in the office of Sub Registrar Shimla

(Urban), I was not present in that office at that time. I

cannot identified the signatures of the then Sub

Registrar, who had appended his signature on the

above said sale deed. It is correct that I also cannot
 identified the signature of the person who has certified

the copies on the above said sale deeds. xxx xxx xxx By Shri Vaibhav Tanwar,
Advocate for defendant No.2

 I adopt the cross examination conducted by

defendant No.1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st August, 2023. (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 PW-3. Statement of Shri Durgesh Kumar,
 O/o Architectural Branch, Municipal
 Corporation, Shimla. Engineer in the Office of Architectural Branch of

Municipal Corporation, Shimla from the year 2021. I

have not brought the entire original record since the

original file is not traceable in our office as of today. At this stage, learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff

prays to defer this witness due to the non-availability

of the original record. Accordingly, the witness is deferred for

today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st August, 2023. (Pritam)
 Civil Suit No. 24of 2016
 31.08.2023
 Present: Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Khem Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Rinki Kashmiri for defendant No.1. Shri Vaibhav Tanwar, Advocate for
 defendant No.2. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks
 exemption from examining the plaintiff at the first
 instance to which the learned opposing has no objection. Statement of Ms. Babli Dharta, Registration
 Clerk from the office of Sub Registrar, Shimla (Urban)
 recorded today as PW-2. PW-1, Shri Chuni Lal, Senior
 Assistant from the office of Assistant Engineer, Sub
 Division Sanjauli, Shimla and PW-3, Shri Durgesh
 Kumar, Junior Engineer from the office Architectural
 Branch, Municipal Corporation, Shimla, are deferred due
 to non-availability of the original record today. PW1 and
 PW3 are deferred for today and be summoned on the next
 date of hearing to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) on taking fresh steps within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
31st August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 146 of 2022 31.08.2023
Present: Shri Balwant Singh Thakur, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri Divya Raj Singh, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per the office report, replication to the
written statement on behalf of the plaintiff is still awaited.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that he has filed
replication alongwith the additional documents on the same
day i.e., on 04.08.2023. However, due to some objections
raised by the Registry it was still pending in the Scrutiny
Section. He further submits that now he has removed the
objections and has re-filed the replication. Learned counsel for the defendants submits that
since some additional documents have been furnished
alongwith the replication, therefore, he will do the
admission/denial on the next date of hearing, when all the
documents will come on record. Since the actual date has been given by the
Hon'ble Court for admission and denial of the documents,
therefore, the undersigned has no authority to extend or
grant the time for admission and denial of the documents
filed by the parties, therefore, the matter be listed before
the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 31st August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 01.09.2023
 Present: Shri Amit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Shivam Vashishth, Advocate, vice Shri
 H.C. Upadhaya, Advocate, for the defendant. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 due to inadvertence he forgot to inform his client today's
 date due to which he could not come to the Court for
 adducing his evidence. He further submits that he will
 positively inform his client about the next date of hearing
 and he will appear on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of plaintiff's
 evidence/cross examination. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 01.09.2023
 Present: Shri Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate, vice Shri Janesh
 Gupta, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Jagdish Thakur, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Learned counsel for the defendants submits that
 due to inadvertence he forgot to inform his clients about the
 date of the evidence due to which they could not come to
 the Court for adducing their evidence. He further submits
 that they will be informed positively about the next date of
 hearing and further undertake to produce them on the next
 date of hearing. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of defendent's
 evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2011 04.09.2023
 Present: Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Khem Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Shri Het Ram Advocate, vice Mr. Sanjeev
 Sood, Advocate, for defendants No. 4, 5 and 6. Learned vice counsel for defendants No.4 to 6 has submitted that the witness Ms. Poonam, who has come
 from the Court of Rent Controller, Shimla has not brought
 the requisitioned record as the particulars furnished by the
 defendants qua that witness are wrong. Learned vice
 counsel for defendants No.4 to 6, seeks time for furnishing
 the correct particular of the witness who has to bring the file
 pertaining to Rent Case No. 341 of 2014 within fifteen days.
 Request is considered and allowed. The witness Ms. Poonam is discharged
 accordingly. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of defendants
 evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2011 PW-3. Statement of Shri Durgesh Kumar,
 O/o Architectural Branch, Municipal
 Corporation, Shimla. Engineer in the Office of Architectural Branch of

Municipal Corporation, Shimla from the year 2021. I

have not brought the entire original record since the

original file is not traceable in our office as of today. At this stage, learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff

prays to defer this witness due to the non-availability

of the original record. Accordingly, the witness is deferred for

today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st August, 2023. (Pritam)
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 05.09.2023
 Present: Shri Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Shri Het Ram Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for non-applicants

 Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for non-
 applicant respondent No.4. Shri Vishwas Kaushal, Advocate, vice Shri
 Suneet Goel, Advocate, for non-applicant-
 respondent No.5. One witness Shri Hira Lal is present today but
 learned vice counsel for the non-applicant seeks
 adjournment on the ground that the original senior counsel
 is out of station. Learned counsel for the applicants has no
 objection in case the adjournment is granted. Accordingly,
 the matter is adjourned for today for the AWs. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that
 she will bring sole remaining witness Shri Hira Lal on the
 next date of hearing for adducing his evidence. As per the list of witnesses the other witnesses
 have already been examined. Let the case be listed before
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing next date for
 remaining AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 127 of 2022 06.09.2023
 Present: None. As per the office report, steps for the plaintiffs
 ex-parte evidence have not been taken, due to which the
 summons could not be issued. The perusal of case file
 shows that three opportunities for taking the have already
 been granted to the plaintiffs but needful has not been done. Let the case be listed in the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 128 of 2022 06.09.2023
 Present: None. As per the office report, steps for the plaintiffs
 ex-parte evidence have not been taken, due to which the
 summons could not be issued. The perusal of case file
 shows that three opportunities for taking steps have already
 been granted to the plaintiffs but needful has not been done. Let the case be listed in the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 2 of 2020 08.09.2023
 Present: Shri Het Ram Thakur, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Ms. Sharutika Chauhan, Advocate vice
 Shri. Dheeraj Vashishth, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per the office report, steps for summoning
 the plaintiff's witnesses have not been taken. Learned
 counsel for the plaintiff seeks some more time for taking the
 steps. Let the same be taken within fifteen days.
 Thereafter process be issued for the service plaintiff's
 witnesses for 02.11.2023 and not more than two witnesses
 be summoned on the said date. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2014 08.09.2023
 Present: Shri Karun Negi, Advocate, vice Mr. Karan
 Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Ashok Tyagi, Advocate, for defendant
 No.1. As per office report, steps for summoning of
 the remaining plaintiff's witnesses have not been taken due
 to which the summons could not be issued. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff prays
 fifteen days time to do the needful. Allowed. Needful be
 done within fifteen days. Thereafter, the process be issued
 for service of remaining PWs for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1533 of 2019 in RFA

 11.09.2023
 Present: Shri Visshvinder Singh, Advocate, vice Shri
 Kulbhushan Khajuria, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 respondent No.1. Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice counsel
 for respondent No.2. Learned vice counsel for the applicants submits
 that no AWs are present today and seeks some more time to
 produce the AWs for their examination. The perusal of
 Part-B of the case file shows that five opportunities have
 already been granted to the applicants for producing his
 witnesses on self responsibility but needful has not been
 done till date. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1532 of 2019 in RFA

 11.09.2023
 Present: Shri Visshvinder Singh, Advocate, vice Shri
 Kulbhushan Khajuria, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 respondent No.1. Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice counsel
 for respondent No.2. In compliance of the order dated 25.05.2022, of
 the Hon'ble Court, list alongwith CMP(M) No. 1533 of
 2019. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 145 of 2022 12.09.2023
 Present: Shri Vinod Gupta, Advocate, for the plaintiff. None for the defendant No.1. Shri Arvind Sharma, Advocate, for defendant
 No.2. As per office report, steps for the plaintiff's

 evidence has not been taken. Learned counsel for the

 plaintiff seeks some more time to do the needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,

 thereafter, the matter be listed before Additional Registrar

 (Judicial) for fixing the date of plaintiff's evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th September, 2023
 (Pritam) COPC No. 106 of 2018 13.09.2023
 Present: Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice counsel
 for the petitioner. Ms. Kusum, Advocate, vice Ms. Seema K.
 Guleria, Advocate, for the respondents. Learned vice counsel for the petitioner submits

 that the witnesses are not present today. However, the

 remaining PWs will be brought by the next date of hearing

 on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional

 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for recording the

 statement of remaining PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 14.09.2023
 Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiffs.
 Shri B. R. Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Learned counsel for the defendant submits that

 he will produce the defendants evidence on the next date of

 hearing on self responsibility. He seeks adjournment for

 today. Allowed. Let the case be listed before Additional

 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for recording the

 statement of defendant's witnesses. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Order sheet
 Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 a/w CS 108 of 2021
15.09.2023
Present: Shri Ravi Kumar, vice Shri Maan Singh,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Janmajai Chauhan, Advocate, vice Shri
 Sunil Mohan Goel, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per office report, process fee for
summoning the plaintiff's witnesses has been filed but the
diet money has not been deposited due to which the
summons have not been issued. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
that they have filed the list of witnesses on 04.08.2023
alongwith the Process Fee. But the list of witnesses is not
on record. However, the PF has been placed on the file.
The list of witnesses has been supplied by the learned vice
counsel for the plaintiff, which is taken on record. As per
the list of witnesses the plaintiff will produce the witnesses
at their own responsibility, therefore, there is no need to
summon any witness and to deposit the diet money.
Learned vice counsel seeks time for recording the evidence
of PWs. Let the case be listed before Additional
Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of plaintiff's
witnesses on which date the plaintiff will produce the
witnesses on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15 th
 September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 PW-2. Statement of Ms. Babli Dharta,
 Registration Clerk, O/o Sub Registrar
 Shimla, (Urban), D.C. Office, Shimla-1. On Oath
 15.09.2023
 Stated that I am working as Registration

Clerk in the Office of Sub Registrar, Shimla (Urban),

D.C. Office, Shimla from the year 2018. I have

brought the requisitioned record. As per the record

brought by me the Sale Deed having Registration No.

141, was registered in our office on 28.06.1996,

certified copy of which is Ex. PW2/A. (Objected to on

the ground of mode of proof). As per my record, Ex- PW2/A is true and correct copy issued by the Sub

Registrar (Urban), Shimla. I have also brought the

original record pertaining to Sale Deed No. 307, dated

15.12.1992, duly registered in the office of Sub

Registrar (Urban), Shimla. As per my record the

certified copy of the said Sale Deed is Ex. PW2/B.

(Objected to on the ground of mode of proof). As per
 my record, Ex-PW2/B is true and correct copy issued

by the Sub Registrar (Urban), Shimla. xxx xxx xxx By Shri Neeraj Gupta,
Senior Advocate with Ms. Rinki Kashmiri,
Advocate, for defendant No.1. It is correct that I am not aware who was

Sub Registrar Shimla (Urban) on 28.06.1996 and

15.12.1992. At the time of registration of Sale Deed

two original copies are being submitted in the

Registration Office, out of which one copy is retained

and pasted in the concerned Book kept in the

Registration Office and the second copy is returned to

the parties after due registration. I have brought the

second office copies of the Sale Deeds, which were

kept in our office at the time of registration. It is

correct that when the above said sale deed were

registered in the office of Sub Registrar Shimla

(Urban), I was not present in that office at that time. I

cannot identified the signatures of the then Sub

Registrar, who had appended his signature on the

above said sale deed. It is correct that I also cannot
 identified the signature of the person who has certified

the copies on the above said sale deeds. xxx xxx xxx By Shri Vaibhav Tanwar,
Advocate for defendant No.2

 I adopt the cross examination conducted by

defendant No.1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st August, 2023. (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 15.09.2023
 Present: Sh. Tarunjeet Singh Bhogal with Ms. Swati,
 Verma, Advocates for the plaintiff.
 Sh. Vikas Jain with Ms. Pragti, Advocate for
 defendants No. 1 ,6 an d ,7. None for the defendants No. 2, 3 and 8. Defendants No. 4 and 5 ex-parte

 Sh. Mandeep Sandhu Authorized
 representative of defendants No. 1, 6 and 7 is present.
 Learned counsel for the defendant submits that due to
 inadvertence Sh. Mandeep Sandhu has not brought the
 original documents, which are required to be produced and
 exhibited in his evidence. Therefore, he seeks adjournment
 for today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has not
 objected prayer made by the learned counsel for the
 defendant. Accordingly , the matter is adjourned for today.
 Learned counsel for the defendants further submits that he
 will produce the defendant on the next date of hearing on its
 own responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (J) for fixing the date of defendants evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1169 of 2022 in RSA No. 31 of 2020
 16.09.2023
 Present: Sh. Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the applicant. Sh. Raj Kumar Negi, Advocate, for respondent
 No.1
 Respondents No. 2 to 4 ex-parte. As per order dated 21.08.2023, of the
 Hon'ble Court, the matter was directed to be listed before
 the undersigned on 05.09.2023. However, as per report of
 the Dealing Assistant, the matter could not be listed on
 05.09.2023 as the case file was got mixed up with another
 matter and the Dealing Assistant has regretted for the same.
 The case is listed before the undersigned today. Further, as per the office report steps
 have not been taken and the PF, Road and Diet Money and
 List of the Witnesses are still awaited. Learned counsel for
 the applicant seeks one week's time to do the needful.
 Prayer is considered and allowed. Let the steps be taken within one week,
 thereafter the process be issued for the service of the
 applicant's witnesses for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th September, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 11 of 2019 18.09.2023
 Present: Sh. Praveen Chandel, Advocate, for the
 plaintiffs alongwith Shri Surinder Singh and
 Shri Raj Kumar (Plaintiffs). Sh. G,D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Sumit Sharma, Advocate for defendant No.1
 and 2 alongwith Shri Ramesh Chand
 (Defendant). Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for
 defendant No.3. Learned counsel for the parties have
 submitted that there are chances of amicable settlement
 between the parties and no fruitful purpose will be served as
 of today by recording the evidence of the plaintiffs.
 Learned counsels requested that the matter be listed in the
 Court. In view of the statement of the learned counsel
 let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Statement of Sh. Dhreej Goel, S/o Shri A.K.
 Goel, aged 47 years, R/o Goel Niwas Power
 House Road, Saproon, Solan, District Solan,
 H.P.
 On Oath
 18.09.2023

 State that I have filed the proceedings under Section 72 of the H.P,. of the Co-operative Societies Act before the Assistant Registrar Co-operative Society,
Solan, and the petition bears my signature, which have
been identified by me today. I have also filed evidence by
way of affidavit in that petition and the affidavit also
bears my signatures. I was cross examined to my
evidence on 19.08.2009 and on that cross examination I
have appended my signatures. I have also seen
Vakalatnama in the file of the proceedings under Section
72 of the H.P. Cooperative Societies Act and the
Vakalatnama also bears my signature. In the Appeal No. 25 of 2013, filed before
Registrar Co-operative Societies by Solan District Truck
Operators transport society, I have filed the reply
alongwith its affidavit. The reply as well as affidavit
bears my signatures. The Vakalatnama in Appeal No. 25
of 2013 also bears my signature. In the Revision No. 25 of 2014, filed under Section 94 of the H.P. Co-operative Societies Act filed by
Solan District Truck operators transport societies (SDTO),
I had executed Vakalatnama by appending my signature.
I have seen my signature in that Vakalatnama today. In the Writ Petition No. 4069 of 2015 titled as
SDTO versus Dheeraj Goel, I executed the Vakalatnama
by appending my signature. Thereafter on account of
change of my counsel I executed one another
Vakalatnama on 16.08.2021, which also bears my
signature. In the said writ petition, the reply filed on my
behalf which is supported by affidavit does not bear my
signature. In the said writ petition my newly engaged
counsel had filed CMP No. 16920 of 2022, application
filed by my counsel, which is supported by affidavit and
the affidavit bears my signatures. In LPA No. 29 of 2023, filed by SDTO I
authorize learned counsel to represent me by executing
Vakalatnama, which also bears my signatures. I have seen all the above mentioned signatures,
which have been signed by me. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
18.09.2023
 Statement of Sh. Harpreet Singh, S/o Shri
 Ajmer Singh, aged 53 years, R/o Brar Road
 Solan, District Solan, H.P.
 On Oath
 18.09.2023

 State that I have filed the proceedings under Section 72 of the H.P,. of the Co-operative Societies Act before the Assistant Registrar Co-operative Society,
Solan, and the petition bears my signature, which have
been identified by me today. I have also executed the
Vakalatnama on 06.01.2009, which bears my signature. I
cannot say that the affidavit in evidence dated 08.07.2009,
filed on my behalf bears my signatures or not. In the
cross examination appended on the said file, I identify my
signatures. In the rejoinder filed in that proceedings, I
identify my signature. I had filed application for execution of the
award dated 13.10.2009, before learned Assistant
Registrar H.P. Co-operative Societies. The application
bears my signatures (in Punjabi). The Vakalatnama in
that proceedings also bears my signature. The SDTO had filed an Appeal No. 26 of
2013, against the order dated 17.08.2013, passed by
learned ARCS Solan, in which reply had been filed on my
 behalf. I cannot say that the reply bears my signature or
not I have some doubt about the signature. I am also
doubtful regarding my signatures on the affidavit in
support of the reply. I am also doubtful about my
signature on the application filed under Section 151 CPC
in that appeal. I am also doubtful about my signature on
the Vakalatnama in that appeal. In the signatures which
are appended in Punjabi I am doubtful about the shape of
the word `Ra' in my signature spelled as `Harpreet'. In the Revision Petition No. 24 of 2014 under Section 94 of H.P. Co-operative Societies Act I have seen
my signature on the Vakalatnama and I am also doubtful
about my signature as stated above. In CWP No. 4098 of 2015, I have seen my
signature on the affidavit appended with the reply and I
am also doubtful about my signature as stated above. In
this writ petition I had executed Vakalatnama dated
14.12.2015, I have seen my signature in it and I identify
my signature. On account of change of counsel in that
proceeding I executed another Vakalatnama on
15.08.2021, which bears my signature. I have seen my
signature on the Vakalatnama dated 15.08.2021 and it is
my short signature. In LPA No. 32 of 2023, I had filed reply to
CMP No. 7476 of 2023, for the application filed Section
151 CPC duly supported by affidavit and the affidavit
bears my short signature. The Vakalatnama dated
02.05.2023, in the said LPA also bears my signature. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
18.09.2023
 CMP No. 2831 of 2021 in RSA No. 511 of 2016

 Statement of Sh. Jitender Singh, S/o Late
 Shri Khem Singh, aged 58 years, R/o
 Jagjeet Niwas Brar Road Solan, District
 Solan, H.P.
 On Oath
 20.09.2023

 State that in the application for execution of
the award dated 14.09.2009, passed by Assistant Registrar
Co-operative Society Solan, Shri Dheeraj Goel, had
authorized me through GPA to sign the application.
Accordingly, I appended my signature on the said
application dated 22.03.2013, I have seen my signature
on the said application. The GPA and Vakalatnama bears
my signatures. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
20.09.2023
 LPA NOs. 29 & 32 of 2023
 18.09.2023
 Present: Mr. Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior Advocate, with
 Mr. Rakesh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 appellants. Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate and Mr. Pranjal
 Munjal, Advocate for respondent No.3

 In compliance to the order dated
 18.09.2023, the statement of Shri Dheeraj Goel, Shri
 Harpreet Singh and Shri Jitender are recorded. Let the statements of the above said
 persons be placed on record and as directed list the matter
 before the Hon'ble Court on 25.09.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 1363 of 2022 in RSA
 19.09.2023
 Present: Mr. Atul Kumar, Advocate, for the applicant. Ms. Rinki Kashmiri, Advocate for respondent
 No. 1. Respondents No. 3 and 4 ex-parte. As per the office report, steps i.e. list of
 applicants witnesses, road and diet money etc. have not
 been filed. Two opportunities have already been granted. Learned counsel for the applicant seeks
 some more time to do the needful. Let the steps be taken
 within seven days thereafter the process be issued for
 service of applicant evidence for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th September, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No.2831 of 2021 in RSA No.511 of 2016
20.09.2023
Present: - Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate for the
 applicants. Shri Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate, for the non-
 applicant-respondent. Shri Kanshi Ram, sole witness is present
today, but learned counsel for the non-applicant prays for
adjournment on the ground that due to demise in the relation of
the original senior counsel, he is not available in the Court
today to cross examine the witness. Learned opposing counsel
did not oppose the request of the learned counsel for the non-
applicant. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that he
will produce the witness Shri Kanshi Ram on the next date of
hearing on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for remaining AW. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 79 of 2016 22.09.2023
Present: - None for the plaintiff. Shri Pranjal Munjal, learned vice counsel for
 the defendant. As per office report diet money for
summoning the plaintiff's witnesses has not been deposited. Let the needful be done within three weeks.
Thereafter, the process be issued for service of the plaintiff's
witnesses for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
(Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 22nd September, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 PW-2 Statement of Ms. Jyoti Kaushik W/o Shri
 Pankaj Kaushik, aged 48 years, R/o Village
 Chakkarpur, Gurgaon, Haryana. On Oath
 03.10.2023

 State that I am Director of Andaz Resort at
Kaithalighat, Solan. Vide Board resolution dated
15.02.2016, Ex.PW2/A, (original seen and returned).
The plaintiff Resort had entered into a lease for the
period of five years vide lease agreement Ex.PW2/B-1
with the defendant No.1 on 24.01.2014. As per the
agreement the lease was for the period of five years and
the lease amount was Rs.21,00,000/- (Rs. Twenty one lacs
only) per annum. At the time of entering into the lease
agreement an amount of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rs. One lac) as
token money was handed over to defendant No.1 through
cheque. The second cheque dated 01.02.2014 amounting
to Rs. 9,50,000/- (Rs. Nine lacs fifty thousand) was also
handed over to the defendant No.1 (Chaman Lal) as per
the lease agreement. Third cheque dated 30.06.2014,
amounting to Rs.10,50,000/- (Rs. Ten lacs fifty thousand)
was again handed over to defendant No.1 in compliance
 to the lease agreement. Till July 2015, the plaintiff-Resort
paid total amount of Rs.40,60,000/- (Rs. Forty lacs sixty
thousand) which includes Rs.3,90,000/- as TDS amount
for the period of two years. Last TDS amount of
Rs.1,80,000/- was paid by the plaintiff to defendant No.1
account on 31.03.2016. We have entered into the lease
agreement with the defendant No.1 for the purpose of
running the Hotel in the premises. Thereafter, we make
certain minor renovations in the premises and purchases
for running the Hotel business. We make changes in the
washroom fittings, beddings, installed CCTV cameras,
computers and purchased utensils etc. We spent about
Rs.10,25,000/- lacs (Rs. Ten lacs and twenty five
thousand) for the aforesaid purchases and changes. Bills
pertaining to the above said purchases were in the Hotel
record maintained by the plaintiff. The plaintiff run the
above said Hotel till July, 2015. We conducted the
business of about one crorer ten lacs in the first lease year
and about fifty lacs uptil July, 2015. The plaintiff
remained in the possession of the Hotel till October, 2015.
On 17.10.2015, I received a phone call from our General
Manager of the Hotel Late Shri Vijay Sarswat on which I
alongwith my husband, brother (Shri Deepak Sharma) and
my two children, visited the leased property at Manali on
 18.10.2015, but the defendant No.1 did not allow us to
enter the premises inspite of the subsistence of the lease
agreement. Thereafter, we approached the Police Station
at Manali, District Kullu, H.P., and the police called
defendant No.1 at Police Station, Manali. The police
advised us to settle the matter between ourselves as it is of
civil nature. Defendant No.1 assured in the presence of
the police to resolve the matter amicably but the
defendant No.1 was not inclined to settle the matter, so
they did not allow us to enter the premises or to come to
any settlement. As per terms of the lease agreement the
plaintiff was entitled to construct the attic on the top floor
of the Hotel premises and also to install the Generator.
The plaintiff could not construct the attic as the defendant
did not allow us to do so. Moreover, the defendant could
not show any permissions from the authorities qua
construction of attic and installation of the Generator.
Defendant No.1 from June 2015 started to insist the
plaintiff for increasing the lease amount. The defendant
also pressurize the plaintiff to give some amount for
raising the attic on the top floor of the Hotel. We did not
acceded to the demands of defendant No.1. After
receiving the advance of the lease amount in July 2015,
the defendant No.1 started to obstruct the smooth
 functioning of the Hotel business by taking the raw
material etc., inside the Hotel for raising the fifth floor,
due to which the customers of the Hotel were feeling
inconvenient as the bookings were being cancelled and
the plaintiff started suffer losses. Plaintiff repeatedly
requesting defendant No.1 to stop causing nuisance but he
did not pay any heed to the requests of the plaintiff.
Thereafter, on 16.09.2015 defendant No.1 sent a notice to
the plaintiff to which the reply has been sent which is
mark `A'. In the reply the plaintiff again requested the
defendant to show the permission from the concerned
authorities for allowing the plaintiff to raise the attic etc.
All the business correspondence regarding booking and
the accounts of the said business are being maintained by
me on the computer. The copies of the mails regarding the
bookings are being annexed as Ex.PW2/C (colly. 97
leaves). (Objected to on the mode of proof). The copy of
ledger account is Ex.PW2/D (colly. 19 leaves) (Objected
to on the mode of proof). The certificate under Section 65 of the Indian Evidence Act., qua maintaining the above
said mails and ledger account is Ex.PW2/E. The plaintiff
use to file the income tax return pertaining to the business
income of the plaintiff resort through our Charted
Accountant Shri Surinder Babbar. Till when the plaintiff
 remain in possession of the leased premises all the taxes
and bills were being paid by the plaintiff. Due to the
discontinuation of the lease agreement by the defendant
No.1, the plaintiff-Resort suffered an amount of about
Rs.84,00,000/- (Rs. Eighty four lacs) and also has to loose
its good will. xxx xxx xxx by Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate,
 for the defendants. Before filing the suit I have read the plaint. It
 is correct that at the time of filing this suit the
 resolution of the Board of Director was not filed
 with the suit. Self stated that it was filed while
 filing the replication. It is incorrect that I was not
 duly authorized/competent to file the present civil
 suit. At the time of execution of the lease agreement
 I was personally present in the leased premises. I do
 not remember the total number of the conditions in
 the lease agreement. It is correct that in the lease
 agreement qua renovation of the leased premises.
 Self stated that the renovation/repairs were
 necessary for running of the Hotel which were being
 carried out by the plaintiff with the consent of
 defendant No.1. It is incorrect that as per term 16 of
 the lease agreement the lesser had to carryout the
repair etc. It is correct that the lease amount was to
be paid on or before 30th June, of every lease year. It
is correct that for the year 2015-2016, the lease
money was not paid up till 30.06.2023. Self stated
that the plaintiff have already paid the posted dated
cheque to the defendant. I have not annexed any
record/cheque qua paying of the post dated cheque
with the present suit. It is incorrect that on
01.07.2015, the entire lease money has not been paid
to the defendant. It is incorrect that as per the
agreement if the lease money was not paid with the
stipulated period i.e. 30th June, the lease agreement
shall be treated as cancelled. I have disclosed to my
counsel while drafting the plaint that we have
received a telephonic call from our General manager
on 17.10.2015 and we visited Manali on 18.10.2023.
We tried to make a written complaint to the police
but the police did not accept our written complaint,
however, they advised us to settle the matter
amicably being civil in nature. It is incorrect that on
18.10.2015, neither we visited Manali nor we went
to police station. I never remained as Principal in a
private school at Gurgaon, Haryana. I did not file
 any civil suit at Manali and filed the present suit at
Shimla. I have disclosed to my counsel about the
inconvenience caused to the Hotel clients due the
construction being raised by defendant No.1. We did
not made any complaint to any authority regarding
inconvenience caused to the plaintiff due the
conduct of the defendant. We did not click any
photographs regarding the construction and taking
the raw material by him through the Hotel premises.
It is incorrect that I am deposing false regarding the
inconvenience caused to the clients of the Hotel.
We started to make the request to defendant from
the very first of the lease to provide all the
clearances from the authorities for constructing the
attic on the top floor. I am not aware that the leased
premises is out of the jurisdiction of Town and
Country Planning Department. Self stated that the
same fact was not disclosed by the defendant. It is
incorrect that the plaintiff was never inclined to raise
the attic and install the Generator at any point of
time. We did not give any notice to the defendant.
Self stated that we orally requested the defendant to
raise the construction. It is incorrect that during the
possession of the lease property the defendant had
 paid electricity, telephone and luxury taxes. We
have mentioned in our income tax return regarding
the turnover of the business of our Hotel for the first
years 2015-2016. In the year 2015 we have taken
this Hotel for the first time on lease, however,
Andaz Resorts is a Single Unit. It is incorrect that
the income tax returns are for the consolidated
businesses of the plaintiff. The plaintiff had paid
the luxury tax up-till July 2015. It is incorrect that
the plaintiff had not the turnover of Rs.1,10,00,000/-
(Rs. One crorer ten lacs) in the first year and
Rs.50,00,000/- (Rs. Fifty lacs) in the first half of the
second year. It is incorrect that we were not serious
in running the Hotel business after the possession of
the leased premises. It is incorrect that due to which
we only visited once or twice in the entire period.
Self stated that we have engaged General Manager
for running of the Hotel and we also use to visit
frequently. It is incorrect that we have engaged Shri
Vijay Sarswat as our General Manager. I have
disclosed to my counsel while drafting the plaint
about the expenses being done on the Hotel as well
as maintaining the record on the computer. Self
stated that the entire record as well as computer
 were not being allowed to be taken by the plaintiff.
 We went to the police station to disclose all these
 facts but we were sent back to come to amicably
 settle the matter. It is incorrect that since the
 plaintiff was not serious and was incurring huge
 expenses, therefore, we abandoned the Hotel
 September, 2015. It is incorrect while in possession
 of the leased premises we have broken one wall of
 the Hotel without the permission of the defendant.
 It is incorrect that the entire record annexed with the
 suit is fabricated. It is incorrect that the plaintiff
 Resort has violated the terms and condition of the
 lease agreement. It is incorrect that the defendant
 did not raise fifth floor on the leased premises. It is
 incorrect that I am deposing false in order to harass
 the defendant. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
03.10.2023 Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 03.10.2023
Present: - Shri P.S. Goverdhan, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Rahul Kukar, Advocate for the plaintiffs. Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate for the defendants. Statement of Ms. Jyoti Kaushisk, is recorded
as PW2. Learned counsel for the plaintiff vide his separate
statement has given up Shri Baldev Singh Thakur and Shri
Pankaj Kaushik. Learned senior counsel has further submitted
that Shri Vijay Sarswat one of the witness mentioned at Serial
No.3, has expired. Let remaining PWs be summoned for the date to be
fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if any, be
taken within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 Statement of Shri Rahul, learned counsel
 for the plaintiffs. Without Oath
 03.10.2023

 State that I give up Shri Pankaj Kaushik and
Shri Baldev Singh Thakur, being repetitive in nature. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Execution Petition No. 10 of 2019

 RW-1 Statement of Shri Yashudeep Singh, DFO
 Kotgarh, District Shimla aged 35 years. On Oath
 04.10.2023

 State that I am posted as DFO Kotgarh from
15th May, 2023. I have brought the relevant record today.
As per the available record the then DFO had put in all the
efforts to execute of the decree of the Hon'ble Court
which was in Civil Suit No. 85 of 1999. As per the order
of Court the assessment of the value of the improvement
made on the suit land was to be carried out by the official
or approved evaluator at the time of eviction. In 2013 the
then DFO requested to Director Horticulture to make
assessment as per above said judgment. After that
Horticulture Development Officer Narkanda, submitted
the assessment value Mark `A' and the total value
assessed value was Rs, 5,46,018/- (Rs. Five lacs forty six
thousand and eighteen). As per the record Horticulture
Development Officer assessed the value on the basis of
Harbans Singh formula. After this various
correspondences took place between the Forest
Department and the Revenue Department and expenditure
sanction of Rs. 5,46,018/- was received from Additional
Chief Secretary (Forest) on dated 24.08.2018. As per
 record, Legal heirs of Shri Vishwa Dev (plaintiff/DH)
were requested to attend the office of DFO Kotgarh on
dated 12.12.2018, 18.01.2019 and 16.03.2019. The
husbands of the daughters/ legal heirs of the petitioner
were present on 18.01.2019 through GPA. They were
shown the evaluation report, Mark `A', submitted by
Horticulture Development Officer and they were further
requested to provide Bank details of the legal heirs of
DH so that the said assessed value could be deposited in
their Bank Accounts. But no such details were not
furnished on 18.01.2019. Later two cheques bearing No.
349355 and bearing No. 349356, dated 27.03.2019
amounting Rs.2,73,009/- each were sent to the legal heirs
vide letter dated 27.03.2019. Both the cheques were
returned by the daughters/LRs of the DH through
Registered Post to DFO office Kotgarh vide Registered
letter dated 15.05.2019 and the same were received in the
office of DFO Kotgarh on 22.05.2019. Therefore, there is
no lapse on the part of the respondent to execute the
decree dated 01.12.2004, passed by the Hon'ble High
Court of Himachal Pradesh in Civil Suit No. 85 of 2019. xxx xxx xxx by Shri Hamender Singh
 Chandel, Advocate, for DH. As per the record the suit land was allotted as
Nautor land to Shri Vishwa Dev (DH). I do not
know in the complaint against the Vishwa Dev
pertaining to the said allotment the State of
Himachal Pradesh has supported the claim of the
DH in the Hon'ble High Court as well as in the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. It is correct that the said
allotment was made to the DH by the Revenue
Department. It is correct that in Civil Suit No. 85 of
1999 the Revenue Department was party. I do not
know when the Nautor land was allotted to DH. I
do not know the classification of the land, ownership
and possession of the said land at the time of
allotment. Self stated that as per the record of Forest
Department the said land is un-demarcated protected
forest (UPF). I have not seen the revenue record
pertaining to 1973 when the said allotment was
made. As per the record before making the
evaluation of the said land the site was visited by the
Forest and Revenue officials. As per the record the
site was visited on 18.06.2014 by Horticulture
Development Officer Shri Begh Ram and other
Forest and Revenue officials. The designation of the
officials of the Revenue Department is not on
 record. There is no record that intimation qua the
 visit of the official on 18.06.2014 was given to the
 legal heirs of the plaintiff/DH. Self stated that there
 was no such condition in the order of the Hon'ble
 High Court. When the husbands of the daughters of
 the DH visited the office of the DFO on 18.01.2019,
 the note sheet pertaining to the proceeding was
 prepared and the same were got signed by the parties
 who were present on that day. The said noting is Ex.
 DX. It is correct that I am deposing today on the
 basis of record and I have not personally dealt with
 the case. It is incorrect that the respondents has
 failed to comply the order of the Hon'ble Court in
 letter and spirit and the evaluation report had been
 made on the lower side in connivance with the
 Horticulture Department. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
04.10.2023
 Execution Petition No. 10 of 2019

RW-2 Statement of Shri Rajender Singh, Naib
 Tehsildar Kotgarh, District Shimla aged 46
 years. Tehsildar Kotgarh from last two months. As per the
record the revenue officials alongwith officials of
the Horticulture Department and Forest Department
visited the site in the year 2014. The petitioner was
also informed at that relevant time. As per record
before preparing the evaluation report the
Horticulture Department assessed all the things i.e.
trees on the site were found. No built up structure
was found on the spot. Revenue entry is made in the
revenue documents pertaining to structure and
nature of the land at the time settlement if structure
is found on the spot at that relevant time. xxx xxx xxx by Shri Hamender Singh
 Chandel, Advocate, for DH. The nautor land was allotted to DH in the year
1982. I do not know the state was supporting the
claim of the DH in the Court proceedings. It is
incorrect that the nautor land was allotted to the DH
 in the year 1974. As per record the nautor land was
 classified as Banjar Kadeem-Charagah- Billa
 Darkhtaan in the year 1974. As per record there
 were Bartandari rights of the villagers in the said
 land. Copy of the mutation (Intkaal) dated
 16.02.1982 is Ex. DY. The intimation qua
 association of DH of the spot visit was given to the
 DH. The record to that effect is not available today
 with me but I can produce the same later on. As per
 the record Ex. DY in column of the ownership State
 of Himachal Pradesh has been mentioned and there
 is no entry of the Forest Department in the column
 of ownership as well as possession. It is correct that
 the revenue department has to identify the boundary
 of the suit land when the visit was made by the
 official of the Horticulture and Forest Department. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
04.10.2023
 Execution Petition No. 10 of 2019

 Statement of Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy
 Advocate General, High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh. Without Oath
 04.10.2023

 I gave up Ms. Manisha, Halqua Patwari,
 Patwar Circle Madhawani, Sub Tehsil Kotgarh,
 District Shimla, being repetitive in nature. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
04.10.2023 Ex. Petition No. 10 of 2019 04.10.2023
Present: - Shri Hamender Chandel, Advocate, for the
 DH. Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy Advocate General,
 for the respondent-State/JD. Statement of Shri Yashudeep Singh, DFO
Kotgarh and Shri Rajender Singh Naib Tehsildar Kotgarh are
recorded as RW/1 and RW/2, respectively. Ms. Ranjna Patial,
Learned Deputy Advocate General vide her separate statement
has given up RW mentioned at Serial No.4. Learned Deputy
Advocate General further submits that due to chest cogession
PW at Serial No.3 Shri Begh Ram, HDO, could not put his
appearance for adducing his evidence. Let the remaining RW i.e. Shri Begh Ram be
summoned for the next date of hearing to be fixed by the
Additional Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if any, be taken within
fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th October, 2023
 (Pritam) COPC No. 190 of 2019 CW2 Statement of Smt. Bimla Devi W/o Late
 Shri Dhanvir Singh R/o Mohal Sount,
 Mauza Har Tehsil Dehra, District Kangra,
 H.P. aged about 64 years. On Oath
 05.10.2023

 Stated that I am house wife and illiterate.
However, I can only sign the documents which has
been taught by my daughter. Savita is daughter-in-
law of my sister-in-law (Jethani). After the death of
my son and marriage of my daughter, respondent
No.1, came to me on the pretext for obtaining GPA
for the partition of joint land and ultimately played
fraud as a result whereof, I filed Civil Suit before the
learned trial Court at Dehra, which was decreed.
The respondents filed the appeal against the order of
the trial Court at Dharamshala, which was also
dismissed by the appellate Court. Thereafter, in the
year 2014, Smt. Savita and Rajinder filed appeal
before this Hon'ble Court, which is pending
adjudication. The Hon'ble High Court directed the
parties vide order dated 10.10.2014 to maintain
status quo, qua the nature and possession of the suit
land. Inspite of the status quo order the respondents
by way of family settlement transferred the part of
 suit land in favour of their daughter Smt. Shweta,
vide family settlement Ex.CW1/B. Subsequently,
Shri Rajinder transferred the part of suit land to one
Shri Amar Nath vide Sale Deed Ex.CW1/C. The
respondents were well aware about the status quo
order granted by the Hon'ble Court in their
application filed by the respondents and inspite of
that they have breached the orders of the Hon'ble
Court intentionally and willfully. xxx xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood,
 Advocate, for the respondents. I am not aware about the Khasra
numbers of the suit property. I was informed about
the status quo order through summons as well as
from my Advocate. I am not specifically aware that
there was any condition regarding prohibition of
selling transferring or encumbering of the said
property. It is correct that no construction has been
raised by any of the parties or the subsequent
purchasers. Self stated that the respondents had sold
and transferred the part of suit property inspite of the
stay order of the Hon'ble Court. The signatures in
the contempt petition alongwith the affidavit are not
mine. Again stated that the signatures are mine. The
 affidavit accompanying the reply to the application
 under order 41 Rule 5 and order 39 Rule 1 and 2 in
 CMP No. 15349 of 2014 are mine. Self stated that
 my Counsel had taken my signatures on blank paper.
 I am not aware about the contents of the reply to the
 above said application filed by me. I am not aware
 about the contents of the reply filed by the
 respondents/appellant. It is incorrect that there was
 no stay order qua transferring or alienating the suit
 property. It is incorrect that I have instituted the
 present contempt petition in order to harass the
 respondents and no disobedience has been done by
 the respondents. Stated that I close the evidence on behalf
 of the petitioner since the list of witnesses has been
 exhausted. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
R.O & AC
05.10.2023
 COPC 190 of 2019
05.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Salochna Rana, Advocate, for the
 petitioner. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate vice Mr. Sanjeev
 Sood, Advocate, for the respondents. Statement of Smt. Bimla Devi is recorded as
CW2. Learned counsel for the petitioner vide her separate
statement has closed the petitioner's evidence. Learned
counsel for the respondents seeks time for respondents
evidence. Let the steps, if any, be taken within fifteen days for
RWs. Thereafter the process be issued for the service of RWs
for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 06.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate, with
 Ms. Lalita Sharma, Advocate for the plaintiff. Shri Y.P. Sood, Advocate for defendants No.
 1 and 2. None for defendant No.3. Summons issued to Shri B.C. Sharma, is duly
served and he is present today in the Court. However, he
submits that he has not prepared the damage report due to
which he is unable to adduce his evidence today. He seeks
some more time for producing the damage report. Therefore,
he is discharged for today. Moreover, the perusal of order dated 01.03.2023
passed by Registrar (Vigilance) shows that some of the
witnesses have been discharged on that day but they have not
been re-summoned. The Dealing Assistant is directed to issue
the summons to those witnesses who have been discharged vide
order dated 01.03.2023 alongwith Shri B.C. Sharma, for the
date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if
any, be taken within seven days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 43 of 2017 07.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the petitioner. Ms. Swati Verma, ld vice counsel for Shri
 Tarun Jeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Learned counsel for the applicant has moved
an application for submission of the solvent security bond in
compliance to order dated 08.08.2023 of the Hon'ble Court in
Arbitration case No. 43 of 2017. The perusal of the same shows
that the documents i.e., certificate of the Canera Bank, report of
the Patwari and Jamabandi have been placed alongwith the
application, but no security bond has been furnished in
compliance to the orders of Hon'ble Court. Learned vice counsel for the applicant-respondent
seeks two weeks time to do the needful. Let the case be listed
after furnishing of the security bond. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016
09.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, vice Mr. Sanjeev
 Sood, Advocate, for the applicants-
 respondent. Mr. Shekhar Badola, Advocate vice
 Mr. Parav Sharma, Advocate, for the non-
 applicants-appellant. As per office report, the summons issued for
the service of non-applicant witnesses mentioned at Sr. No. 2
and 3, in the list of witnesses are un-served with the report that
the addressees are not present at home and the house was found
to be closed. Learned vice counsel for the non-applicants-
appellants seeks two weeks time for taking the steps. Accordingly, let the steps be taken within two
weeks thereafter the fresh summon be issued for the service of
witnesses mentioned at Sr. No. 2, in the list of witnesses of the
non-applicant-appellant. Learned vice counsel for the non-
applicant further submits he will produce Shri Subhash Chand
on his self responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional Registrar
(Judicial) for fixing the date of RWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Cmp(m) No. 1328 of 2022 10.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Harish Kumar, Advocate vice Mr. Rajiv
 Chauhan, Advocate, for the appellant.
 Ms. Vandna Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Surinder Saklani, Advocate for the defendant. Let the case be listed for applicants evidence
on 07.12.2023. Steps, if any, be taken within two weeks. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
10.10.2023
AW-4: Statement of Sh. Tushar Sharma S/o Shri
 Ashok Kumar, aged about 20 years, Village
 Tadoli, P.O. Saru, Pargana Udaipur, Tehsil and
 District Chamba, H.P.
 On Oath
 10.10.2023
 Stated that I am permanent resident of above
 stated address. On 04.11.2019, the appellants were fixing
 the railing on our land. The appellants have themselves
 obtained the order of stay in RSA No. 223 of 2014 and they
 were defying the orders of the Hon'ble Court dated
 29.11.2016 by fixing the railing on the suit property. My
 father Shri Ashok Kumar requested them not to raise any
 type of construction/railing on the suit property but they did
 not pay any heed to the request of my father and started
 quarreling with my father. Thereafter on the same day my
 father lodged a complaint Police Post Darada. The police
 did not take any action on the complaint of my father. I
 have passed my ITI this year only. On 04.11.2019 I was
 also present on the spot and I also clicked the photographs
 from my mobile, which are Mark A2 to A6. The
 photographs were got developed by me at Devi-Dehra from
 the photographer in the name and style of M/s Ajay
 Brothers. I have also obtained the receipt Mark-A9, from
 Ajay Brothers, qua developing of the said photographs.
 The appellants have intentionally and willfully disobeyed
 the order of the Hon'ble Court. CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014

 xxx xxx xxx By Shri Ajay Sood, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Rohit, Advocate for
 respondent/non-applicant. It is correct that the railing is fixed on the lentil
of the house. The house shown in photographs Mark A-2 to
A-6, belongs to the house of Kaushlya Devi. Self stated
that she had raised part of her house on our land. I do not
know whether any FIR had been registered against my
father qua the said quarrel. I am not aware that a criminal
case is pending adjudication at District Court Chamba
against my father. The house of the Kaushlya Devi has
been construction on Khasra No. 1954/1131. I do not know
in which year the said house was constructed. I do not
know that Kaushlya Devi had raised her house before my
birth. Khasra Nos. 1133 and 1131 belongs to my father. I
have not seen any revenue paper pertaining to these Khasra
Numbers. Ajay and Brother Proprietor is still having his
shop at Devi-Dehra. I am not aware that Shri Ajay came to
Shimla Court for adducing his evidence. It is incorrect that
I do not know anything about the case. It is incorrect that
the appellants have not disobeyed the orders of the Hon'ble
Court. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th October, 2022
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014
10.10.2023

AW-4: Statement of Sh. Karan Sharma, Advocate,
 for the applicants, High Court of Himachal
 Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 10.10.2023
 Stated that I closed the evidence on behalf of
 the applicants-respondents since the list of witness has
 been exhausted. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 10th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 16020 of 2019 in RSA No. 223 of 2014

10.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Anand Sharma, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Karan Sharma, Advocate for the
 applicants. Mr. Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Rohit, Advocate, for the non-applicant. Statement of Shri Tushar Sharma as AW-4, is
 recorded. Learned counsel for the applicant vide his
 separate statement has closed the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. Learned counsel for the non-applicant seeks time
 for taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be taken within
 fifteen days, thereafter, the process be issued for service of
 RWs for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 48 of 2016 11.10.2023
Present: - Mr. B.S. Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Subhash Sharma, Advocate, for
 defendant No.1. Mr. Ashok Kumar, Advocate, vice Mr. V.D.
 Khidtta, Advocate, for defendant No.2. As per the office report, summons issued to one
 witness mentioned at Sr. No. 1 in the list of witnesses is
 still awaited. At this stage, learned counsel for the parties have
 submitted that there are chances of amicable settlement
 between the parties, if the lis is referred for mediation. In view of the statement of learned counsel for the
 parties, let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court
 for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2016 11.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Dev Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Pranjal Munjal, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per the office report, PWs mentioned at Sr. No. 3,
 4 and 5, in the list of witnesses are duly served. Witnesses
 mentioned at PW3, Shri Sunil Suman and PW5 Shri Raju,
 Deputy Branch Manager, Punjab National Bank Branch, Lift
 Road, The Mall Shimla, as mentioned in the list of witnesses
 are present. Learned counsel for the parties have submitted
 that due to the engagement of learned Senior Counsels for
 the parties in the Hon'ble Court, they are unable to come for
 the examination of the witnesses. Learned counsel for the
 plaintiff further prayed the witnesses who are present in the
 Court may be discharged. Accordingly, the witnesses present today in the Court
 are discharged. Let the notice under Order 16 Rule 12 be
 issued to PW4 mentioned in the list of witnesses, since
 despite service he did not put appearance for adducing his
 evidence. Let the fresh steps i.e. PF diet money be deposited
 within fifteen days. Fresh summons be issued for the service
 of PWs mentioned at Sr. No. 3, 4 and 5 in the plaintiff's list
 of witnesses for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2015 12.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Dikken Kumar Thakur, Advocate vice
 Mr. Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 None for the LRs of defendant No. 1 and
 defendant No. 3 to 7. Mr. Ajay Kumar Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Rohit, Advocate, for defendant No.2.
 Mr. Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate, with Ms.
 Pooja Verma, Advocate, for defendant No.8
 to 10. Learned counsels for the parties have submitted that
 Shri Vijay Pandit, learned counsel who were representing LRs
 of defendant No.1 and defendants No. 3 to 7 has expired and
 no fresh Vakalatnama has been filed on behalf of LRs of
 defendant No.1 and defendants No. 3 to 7. The perusal of record shows that no notice have been
 sent to the LRs of defendant No.1 and defendant No.3 to 7
 after the death of Shri Vijay Pandit and they are un-represented
 as of date. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
 no witness is present in the Court today. He further submits
 that there are chances of amicable settlement between the
 parties, therefore, the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court. The opposing counsels have further endorsed that the
 negotiation are going on between the parties. Since, as stated above, there are chances of amicable
 settlement, therefore, let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders, accordingly. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th October, 2023
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 891 of 2022 12.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Manjeet Singh, Advocate vice Mr. G.R.
 Palsra, Advocate, for the applicant. Mr. Kushi Ram Verma, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks one
 opportunity for bringing the witnesses on behalf of the
 applicant. The opposing counsel has not objected the request
 of learned vice counsel for the applicant. Let the applicant's
 witness be produced on self responsibility for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Counter Claim No. 35 of 2014 13.10.2023
Present: - None for the plaintiff Non-Counter Claimant. Mr. Ashok Kumar, Advocate vice Mr. Karan
 Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the Counter
 Claimant-defendant. Learned vice counsel for the Counter Claimant has
 submitted that due to personal reason the plaintiff has gone
 abroad due to which he could not come to the Court for
 adducing his evidence. Learned vice counsel further submits
 that the Counter Claimant/defendant will be produced on the
 next date of hearing on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) for fixing the date of evidence of the Counter
 Claimant, who will be produced on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 16.10.2023

DW-3: Statement of Sh. P. Arun Kumar, aged
 about 71 years R/o 1/8, Seema Society N
 Dutta Road, IV Bunglows, Andheri West,
 Mumbai-400053. On Oath
 16.10.2023
 Stated that I was Managing Director of the
 Defendant-Company at the relevant time. The
 defendant started the Company in the year 2000 for
 providing services to the telecom companies. Around
 2005, the defendant want to extend their business so the
 company purchased a land at upper Nangal Village at
 Nalagarh, District Solan to set up tower manufacturing
 there. The copy of jamabandi is annexed with Rent
 Deed Ex. PW1/D. The plaintiff was introduced to me
 by one of our common friend at Chandigarh as the
 plaintiff-firm were doing the business of selling the
 scientific instruments in the market. The plaintiffs-
 firm also want to expend their business at Baddi-
 Nalagarh (Industrial Area). Accordingly, the plaintiff-
 firm took on rent a portion of our shed constructed on
 our land at Nalagarh, which was about 500 Sq. Mtrs.
 To that effect Rent Deed PW1/D was executed between
 the plaintiff-firm and the defendant company.
 However, the plaintiff-firm occupied more area i.e.
 about 800 Sq. Mtrs., in contravention to the terms of the
agreement. The demarcation to that effect was got Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 conducted by the defendant-company from one Shri
Shivam Karol, (Architect). As per the agreement
Ex.PW1/D, the period of the Rent Deed was for five
years commencing from 20.11.2007 to 19.11.2012 and
the agreed rent was Rs.41,000/- per month. The
defendant-company was planning to manufacture
telecom towers for telecom company in that shed at
Nalagarh. Two activities were involved in that process
which were fabrication of material and galvanization of
the said material. However, due to limited finance
resources of the defendant-company, the defendant-
company restricted its activity qua fabrication of the
material and wanted to outsource the process of
galvanization of the material to some other agency.
The plaintiff-firm was interested in the galvanization of
the material so the defendant after due diligence and
discussion agreed to the proposal of the plaintiff-firm.
The defendant company also discussed the modalities
of the activities and processes with the plaintiff-firm. It
was agreed between the parties that galvanization if
given to the plaintiff-firm would be on job contract
basis. Meaning thereby that in case the defendant-
company would get the order for fabrication, it would
 be given for galvanization to the plaintiff-firm and the
plaintiff firm would have the right to undertake outside
job of the other companies, if the plaintiff-firm still Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 having spare capacity available with them to do that.
The said understanding was for a particular activity
i.e., galvanization and even it was agreed between the
parties i.e. landlord and the tenant that how the
movement of the material would take place in the
premises. Subsequently, due to 2G scams in the
telecom sector as well as bleak prospects in the telecom
sector, no orders were placed/received by the
defendant-company due to which no work was being
done by the defendant-company and no assignment was
given for galvanization to the plaintiff-firm by the
defendant-company. The plaintiff-firm also could not
commission the galvanizing plant and they also could
not take orders from other customers as well. Since the
period of the agreement was only for five years, in
November 2012, with an intention of not paying the
rent and gain time the plaintiff-firm filed a frivolous
suit against the defendant-company and obtained the
ex-parte stay order from the Hon'ble Court. The
plaintiff-firm is still occupying the said premises un-
authorizedly from the execution of the rent agreement
and have not paid the rent till date, which the defendant
 company is legally entitled to. Alongwith the written
statement, the defendant-company had also filed the
Counter Claim for an amount @ Rs.1,00,000/- per Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 month since the tenancy was terminated by efflux of
time in November, 2012. The defendant-company is,
thus also entitled for use and occupation charges from
November 2012 onwards till date from the plaintiff-
firm. xxx xxx xxx Shri Nitin Thakur,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. It is correct that the defendant-company
entered into memorandum of understanding with the
plaintiff-firm on 05.12.2007. It is correct that as per the
memorandum of understanding the galvanization work
was to be assigned to the plaintiff-firm. Self stated that
the said work was to be assigned to the plaintiff-firm if
the defendant-company would get the order for tower
supply. It is correct that before galvanization process is
assigned to the plaintiff-firm, there are certain processes
which were required to be done on behalf of the
defendant-company. It is incorrect that the defendant-
company had failed to do the needful on their part and
subsequently, started to raise lame excuses for not
assigning the galvanization work to the plaintiff-firm.
 Self stated that the towers are required to be
manufactured on the need basis of the customers and
since no order were placed, therefore, no work was
being done on the part of the defendant-company. It is
incorrect that the plaintiff-company had to earn Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 approximately Rs.5.5 crores profit from the work of
galvanization. I do not know for the purpose of setting
up galvanization plant, the plaintiff-firm had spent
about two corers. It is incorrect that since the plaintiff-
firm had already spent about two crorers due to which
the defendant-company had entered into an agreement
EX. PW1/F. Self stated that the agreement Ex. PW1/F
was pertaining to separate path to the plaintiff-firm and
it has nothing to do with anything else. Letter dated
20.06.2010, 08.04.2011 (Mark `C'), 16.06.2011 (Mark
`D'), 18.12.2011 (Mark `E'), are the photocopies and
without seeing the original copies, I could not identify
the alleged signatures on the above said documents. It
is incorrect that in the above said letters, the defendant-
company had admitted for deferring the rent of
plaintiff-firm. It is incorrect that since the parties have
mutually agreed for the deferment of the rent since the
signing of the rent agreement Ex.PW1/D, as such there
arises no question of counter claim. It is incorrect that
due to the lack of willingness and non-execution of the
 work on the part of the defendant-company, the
plaintiff firm had suffered losses. It is incorrect that the
defendant-company was duty bound to honour the
terms of the agreement Ex.PW1/F. Self stated that the
defendant-company never stopped the movement of the
goods of the plaintiff-firm and the path is still available Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 for them as of date. It is incorrect that since the
defendant-company have not complied with the terms
of the agreement Ex.PW1.F, therefore, the plaintiff-firm
is entitled to Rupees Eight crores from the defendant-
company. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th October, 2023 Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 16.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Nitin Thakur, Advocate vice Mr. Yash
 Wardhan Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff
 Non-Counter Claimant. Mr. Kanwar Bhupinder Singh, Advocate for
 the defendant/ Counter Claimant. Statement of Shri P. Arun Kumar is recorded as
 DW3. As per the office report, the summons issued to the
 witness at Sl. No.3 in the list witnesses is still awaited. Let
 the fresh summons be issued for the service of witness
 mentioned at Sl. No.3, in the list of witnesses for the date to
 the fixed by Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 In compliance to the order dated 13.10.2023 of
Worthy Registrar General, the statements of S/Shri Padam
Dev Sharma, the then Court Master of Hon'ble Mr. Justice
Dharam Chand Chaudhary, J. (Retd.), Shri Duni Chand, the
then Restorer and Shri Rohit, Dealing Assistant of the case
file (CWP No. 2521 of 2019), are recorded. Thereafter, the directions are also issued to all the
concerned Section Officers and Dealing Assistants of the
Judicial Branch to trace the said judicial record in their
respective Sections. Further, as per the reports of the concerned Branches,
no such record has been found in their respective Branches.
However, Section Officer of the CWPOA Branch has
submitted that on 30.10.2019, CWPOA Branch was not in
existence. The above said reports of the concerned Section
Officers are annexed herewith for kind perusal and
consideration. It is further submitted that sincere efforts for tracing
the record are made in the Judicial Branch, but the concerned
record is not found in the Judicial Branch. Accordingly, the report is submitted alongwith the
statements of the above said persons for kind perusal and
consideration. Submitted, please. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 16.10.2023

Worthy Registrar General Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 17.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Vikas Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Rohit, Advocate vice Mr. Sumit Sood,
 Advocate, for the defendants. Shri Sanjay Kumar (Plaintiff No.1) is present today.
 Learned vice counsel for the defendant seeks adjournment
 on the ground that the original counsel is not available to
 cross examine the witness who is present in the Court today.
 The request of the adjournment is not opposed by the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the witness (Shri
 Sanjay Kumar) is discharged for today. Learned counsel for
 the Plaintiff submits that they will produce the said witness
 on self responsibility on the next date of hearing. Let the case be listed before the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) for fixing the next date for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 43 of 2017 18.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the petitioner. Mr. Tarun Jeet Singh Bhogal and Ms. Sawati
 Verma, Advocates, for the respondents along
 with (Mr. Rajesh Thakur sole respondent). Learned counsel for the applicant has moved
an application for submission of the Security Bond. The
Security Bond alongwith details of the property in favour of the
applicant alongwith the report of the Patwari are annexed with
the Security Bond. The applicant has been duly identified by
Mr. Tarun Jeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate. I have gone through the orders of the Hon'ble Court
as well as the Security Bond and the documents annexed
herewith. Application is allowed. Accordingly, the Security
Bond is accepted and attested by me. The same be tagged with
the case file. Let follow up action be taken in compliance to
order dated 08.08.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 76 of 2015 18.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Dinesh Thakur, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 1 and 2. (Memo of
 appearance filed). Learned counsel for the defendants No. 1 and
2 submits that the defendants No.1 and 2 has recently engaged
him and the power of attorney on behalf of the aforesaid
defendants is still awaited and in the absence of the power of
attorney, he is unable to cross examine the witnesses. Learned
counsel seeks four weeks time for filing the power of attorney. However, learned counsel for the plaintiff has
submitted that no witness from the plaintiff side is present
today and he also seeks adjournment. Prayed of the learned
counsel is allowed. Let the first two witnesses mentioned in the list of
witnesses of the plaintiff dated 26.06.2023 be summoned on
self responsibility for the date to be fixed by the Additional
Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 5209 of 2019 in RSA No. 464 of 2012
18.10.2023
Present: - None. The case is listed for the applicants witnesses today.
As per office report, steps have not been taken by the
applicants for AWs. The perusal of the file shows that
twelve opportunities have already been granted to the
applicants for taking the steps, but needful has not been
done till date. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9395 of 2018 in RSA No. 112 of 2018
19.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Gaurav Chaudhary, Advocate, vice Ms.
 Shweta Joolka, Advocate, for the applicant. Mr. Kiran Kumar Chauhan and Mr. Subhash
 Chander, Advocates vice Mr. Dushyant
 Dadwal, Advocate for the respondents. Learned vice counsel for the respondents have
submitted that no witness on behalf of respondents are present
today. Learned counsel further submits that they are unable to
produce Shri Atul Sharma witness mentioned at Sl. No. 3 on its
own responsibility and submitted that the summons may be
issued to him for his appearance. Learned counsel for the
respondents further submits that they have received the
communication from witness Ishwar Dass that due to his ill
health, he is unable to come to the Court today. Photocopy of
the Medical prescription slip has been produced, which is taken
on record. Further, as per the report on the summons of the
witness Ravinder Kumar, he has refused to take the summon on
account of some function in his house on 19.10.2023. Let fresh steps be taken within fifteen days and
thereafter process be issued for the service of witnesses
mentioned at Sl. No. 3, 4 and 5 in the list of witnesses of the
respondents, for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
(Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th October, 2023
 (Pritam)

 Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 2021
19.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the appellant. Vide order dated 11.09.2023, the Hon'ble
Court has fixed the date i.e., 25.09.2023, for recording the
statement of the official, who has affixed the proclamation.
On account of the undersigned casual absence, the case was
listed before Registrar (Administration) on 25.09.2023. The perusal of the order dated 25.09.2023, passed
by the Registrar (Administration), shows that LC Priyanka 316,
PP Junga, District Shimla, was present on that day but she was
discharged on that day and her statement was not recorded due
to non-appearance on behalf of the State. Since the actual date for recording the statement of
the official has been fixed by the Hon'ble Court and on that
date the statement has not been recorded, therefore, let the
matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate
orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th October, 2023
 (Pritam) a) That the communication has been received from the
students of Degree College Sabathu Himachal Pradesh who are
studying in the said college. It is averred that on 14.10.2022,
the aforesaid degree college has been acquired/taken over by
the Government of Himachal Pradesh due to which all the
students have been benefited. There are about 135 students
who are studying the in the said college and most of the
students belong to schedule caste and poor strata of the society,
who cannot take education from some other colleges. Since the
college has been taken over by the Government of Himachal
Pradesh, therefore, 90 students have taken admission in B.A.
and B.Com 1st year. It is further averred that at the time of
admission, the local M.L.A. who was present there had assured
that he will get the appointments of the Professors done in the
college at the earliest. b) That as of date there are only two Professors (History and
Hindi) in the college due to which the students are facing
problem in their studies. There is no Professor of commerce stream . Half yearly and
the final examination are near but the Government is not
paying any heed regarding the appointment of the Professors
due to which their future is seeing to be in dark. c) That the students by way of this petition are seeking
directions to the government of Himachal Pradesh for
appointment of the Professors in every stream in their college. 20.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Raman Ravi Verma, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Suneet Goel, Advocate, for the plaintiff. None for defendants, No. 1,2 and 7. Mr. Anil Kumar Kashyap vice Mr. Aman
 Sood, Advocate for defendant No.3. Mr. Rohit, Advocate, vice Mr. Sumit Sood,
 Advocate, for the defendant No.4.
 Mr. Anshul Gandhi, Advocate vice Mr. C.N.
 Singh, Advocate, for defendants No. 5 and 6. As per the office report fresh steps for
summoning the plaintiff's witness have not been taken.
Moreover, as per office report an application under Section 89 CPC for referring the matter to Arbitration has been filed on
behalf of the plaintiff. Therefore, the adjudication of the application under Section 89 CPS is required before the evidence is adduced by
the parties to the lis. Accordingly, let the said application be
listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 7 of 2023 20.10.2023
Present: - Ms. Kiran Sharma, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Arvind Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Sanjay Dalmia, Advocate for the
 defendants. As per the office report, the original
documents have not been filed by the parties in compliance to
the order dated 22.09.2023 of the Hon'ble Court. Learned
counsel for the parties are seeking some more time to do the
needful. Since the actual date for admission and denial has
been given by the Hon'ble Court, therefore, it would not be
appropriate to the undersigned to extend the time for admission
and denial. Therefore, let the matter be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th October, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017
30.10.2023
Present: - Mr. R.L. Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the non-
 applicants-respondents. As per office report, summons issued to
witness Gulam Ali, has been received back after due service. Learned counsel for the applicant has
submitted that due to marriage of brother of the said witness, he
is unable to come to the Court for adducing his evidence.
Learned counsel for the applicant seeks adjournment for today. Let fresh summons be issued for service of
Gulam Ali, after taking steps by the applicants within two
weeks, for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
(Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th October, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 31.10.2023
Present: - Mr. Rihan, Advocate, vice Mr. P.P. Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Vijender Katoch, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per office report, the witnesses are
required to be produced by the plaintiff on self responsibility.
Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that the
witnesses are on the way, however, he is seeking adjournment
as the original counsel Mr. P.P. Chauhan, has suffered heart
stroke and is admitted in the hospital. Learned vice counsel for
the plaintiff has submitted that the witnesses will be produced
on self responsibility on the next date. The adjournment sought
by the learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has not been
opposed by the learned counsel for the defendants. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
today. Let the case be listed before the Additional Registrar
(Judicial) for fixing the next date for PWs on which date the
plaintiff's evidence be produce on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
31st October, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 114 of 2021 31.10.2023
Present: - Mr. N.K. Bhalla, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Dinesh Negi, Advocate, vice Mr. Karun
 Negi, Advocate, for defendant No.1. Mr. Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate for
 defendants No. 2 and 3. As per office report, an application under Order VII Rule 14 CPC for placing on record of some
documents has been filed by the plaintiff, which has been
registered as OMP No. 523 of 2023. Though, Shri Brij Lal Belwal, officer
concerned from the office of ROC Delhi and Haryana is
present but the learned counsel for the defendants has
submitted that they want to file the reply to the application of
the plaintiff and adjudication on the application is required
before the evidence is led by the plaintiff. The expenses to the tune of Rs.4000/- of the
witness, who is present in the Court today, has been paid in
cash by the learned counsel for the plaintiff. Since the application for placing on record
filed by the plaintiff is pending adjudication, therefore, let the
case be listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
31st October, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 19 of 2019 01.11.2023
Present: - Mr. Ravinder Singh Chandel, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Mr. Navneet Bhalla, Advocate, for the
 defendants-Counter Claimants. As per office report, the witnesses at Serial
No. 3 to 5 in the list of witnesses, are duly served. Shri Gopi
Singh, Assistant Engineer O/o Municipal Corporation Solan, is
present today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has
submitted that he want to examine plaintiff at the first instance
and thereafter the other witnesses may be examined.
Moreover, there is no application under Order 18 Rule 3(A) CPC , therefore, the plaintiff is required to be examined at the
first instance before the examination of any other witnesses. Accordingly, the witness Shri Gopi Singh,
present in the Court today is discharged. Learned counsel for the plaintiff further
submits that he will produce the first two witnesses in the list of
witnesses on self responsibility on the next date of hearing.
Accordingly, the summons to the other witnesses shall be
issued only after the examination of the plaintiff. Let the case be listed before the Additional
Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st November, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 2 of 2020 02.11.2023
Present: - Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, alongwith
 plaintiff in person. Mr. Pyush Agnihotri, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Dheeraj K. Vashishth with Ms. Shivani
 Thakur W/o Shri Ashwani Kumar Thakur
 defendant No.1. Defendant No.2 already ex-parte. Learned vice counsel for defendant No.1, has
submitted that the defendant No.1 has taken the case file from
him and henceforth he will not appear on behalf of defendant
No.1. Ms. Shivani Thakur, who is present in the Court today
has submitted that her husband requires at least one month's
time to engage new Advocate and to handover the case file to
the newly engaged Advocate. As per office report, Branch Manager, SBI
Gagret Branch, Una and Branch Manager Punjab National
Bank Gagret, Una, are duly served. Shri Amit Kumar, Branch
Manager, State Bank of India, Gagret, Una and Shri Vishal
Sandhu, Branch Manager, Punjab National Bank Gagret Una,
are present today. Since Ms. Shivani Thakur W/o defendant
No.1, is seeking time for engaging new Advocate on behalf of
 defendant No.1, therefore, these witnesses could not be
examined today. Accordingly, both the witnesses present
today, are discharged. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
they have filed one fresh list of witness on 27.04.2023, but the Civil Suit No. 2 of 2020 same is not on record. Learned counsel has further submitted
that the name of witnesses are same in the fresh list of
witnesses but the detail of the documents, which are required to
be produced are deficient in the earlier list of witnesses filed on
05.09.2022. No prejudice will caused to anybody, if the fresh
list of witness is taken on record at this stage, as the statement
of the witnesses are yet to be recorded. Accordingly, the same
is taken on record. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has paid
the expenses in cash to the witnesses present in the Court
today. Let the case be listed before the Additional
Registrar (Judicial) after the filing of fresh power of attorney
on behalf of defendant No.1, for fixing the next date for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 924 of 2022 in RSA No. 8982 of 2022(filing No.)
03.11.2023
Present: - Mr. Pranav Kaushal, Advocate, for the
 applicant (MOA filed). Mr. Gaurav Sharma, Advocate, along with
 Shri Surinder Rawat (respondent in person)
 for the respondent. . Mr. Pranav Kumar Kaushal and Shri Sameer
Miyan, Advocates, have filed the memo of appearance on
behalf of the applicant. Learned counsel have submitted that
the counsel previously engaged by the applicant has left this
case and now they have been engaged by the applicant.
Learned counsel further submits that the applicant has not yet
handed over the case file to him, therefore, they seek
adjournment. Learned counsel for the respondent has not
opposed the request of the learned counsel for the applicant. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today. Let
the power of attorney on behalf of the applicant be filed within
two weeks. Let the case be listed before the Additional
Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of evidence on behalf of
the applicant after filing of the power of attorney on behalf of
the applicant. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 4376 of 2023 in RSA No. 247 of 2020
RW-3: Statement of Sh. Tilak Raj, S/o Ishwar Dass,
 R/o Village Kairi, P.O. and Tehsil Shahpur,
 District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh
 On Oath
 03.11.2023
 Stated that the applicants-appellants had filed an
 RSA before the Hon'ble High Court. The photographs
 Mark C, D and E pertains to my house. I have not raised
 any construction after the decision of First Appellate Court
 at Dharamshala. I have not raised any construction after the
 stay order of the Hon'ble High Court and has not
 disobeyed the order of Hon'ble Court at any time. xxx xxx xxx Shri Sanjay Jaswal
 Advocate, for the applicant-appellant. It is in correct that I have raised my house on the
 disputed land. It is correct that the suit land is joint
 property and I am one of the co-owner in the said land. It is
 incorrect that the construction, which is shown in the
 photographs Mark C to E has been raised by me in the
 month of April, 2022. Self stated that the construction in
 the photographs Mark C to D pertains to the year 2019. I
 was aware of the stay orders of the Hon'ble High Court. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 3rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 4376 of 2023 in RSA No. 247 of 2020
RW-3: Statement of Sh. Subhash Chander, Advocate,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 03.11.2023
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
 respondents since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 3rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 4376 of 2023 in RSA No. 247 of 2020
03.11.2023
Present: - Mr. Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate, for the
 applicant-appellant. Mr. Subhash Chander, Advocate, for the
 respondents. . Statement of Shri Tilak Raj is recorded as RW3.
Learned counsel for the respondents vide his separate statement
has closed the evidence on behalf of the respondents. Accordingly, let the case/CMP be listed before the
Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 967 of 2023 in RSA No. RSAST No. 21332 of 2023
03.11.2023
Present: - None for the applicant. Mr. Dalip Chand, Advocate, vice counsel for
 the respondents. . As per the office report, rejoinder to the reply to
CMP No. 967 of 2023, is still awaited and steps i.e. PF, Road
and Diet Money and List of Witnesses have not been filed as
yet. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
thereafter, the process be issued for the service of the witnesses
for 15.12.2023. However, not more than two witnesses be
summoned for the said date. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1244 of 2022 in RSA No. 18567 of 2022
04.11.2023
Present: - Ms. Urvashi Rajta, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 applicant. None for the respondents. . As per the office report, steps i.e. list of witnesses
PF road and diet money for the service of the witnesses have
not been filed till date. Learned counsel for the applicant
seeks some more time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen day,
thereafter, the process be issued for the service of applicants
witnesses for 26.12.2023. However, not more than two
witnesses be summoned for the said date. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2022
04.11.2023
Present: - Ms. Diksha Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Lovneesh Kanwar, Senior Advocate, for
 the applicant. Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 respondents. As per the office report, steps under Order XVI
Rule 1 of CPC have not been taken by both the parties.
Learned vice counsel for the applicant as well as learned
counsel for the respondents are seeking some more time for
taking the steps in compliance to the Hon'ble Court's order. Since there is a specific order from the Hon'ble
Court that the steps be taken by both the parties within
fifteen days, failing which, no assistance shall be given to the
defaulting party. Therefore, the undersigned cannot extend
the time already granted by the Hon'ble Court. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 669 of 2023 in RSAST No. 16082 of 2023
06.11.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General,
 for the applicant. Mr. Vanshaj Azad, Advocate vice Mr.
 Rajul Chauhan, for the respondent. As per the office report, the i.e., list of witness,
PF and road and diet money for the service of AWs have not
been filed. Learned Deputy Advocate General seeks some
more time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within two weeks,
thereafter, the process be issued for the service of AWs
returnable for 20.12.20223. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 5990 of 2020 in RSA No. 513 of 2016
RW-1: Statement of Sh. Gopal Thakur, S/o Shri Beli
 Ram, R/o Village Dhalogi, P.O. Fozal, Tehsil
 and District Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 06.11.2023
 Stated that the parties to the lis are known to me.
 The village Gadherani is about 27 Kms. Away from my
 village. Panna Lal respondent is related to me due to which
 I am in visiting terms at village Gadherani. Smt. Maya
 Devi plaintiff-appellant has been married towards
 Manikaran side. The distance between Manikaran and
 Gadherani is about 50 Kms. I have seen the land pertaining
 to Ram Dass at village Gadherani. Maya Devi is not in
 possession of land at village Gadherani. Tula Ram and
 Panna Lal have constructed a parking at Village Gadherani
 adjacent to the road in the year 2007-2008. They have not
 raised any new construction thereafter at village Gadherani. xxx xxx xxx Shri Kapil Dev Sood, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Het Ram Thakur,
 Advocate. Smt. Maya Devi plaintiff is real sister of Tula
 Ram and Panna Lal. Ram Dass has expired 5-6 years ago.
 It is correct that dispute regarding succession of the
 property of Ram Dass is going between the appellant and
 respondents. It is correct that Ram Dass was owner of
 apple orchard. I do not know the Khasra Numbers of that
 orchard. It is incorrect that any of the party has cut the
 apple trees in that orchard. It is correct that Ram Dass has
also not cut the apple trees in his orchard during his life
 CMP No. 5990 of 2020 in RSA No. 513 of 2016

time. The parking has been constructed by the respondents
during the life time of Ram Dass. It is incorrect that for
raking the parking by the respondents, they have cut the
apple trees from the orchard. I am not aware that the High
Court has passed any stay order in the case between the
parties. I am not aware that any of the parties had lodged
complaint in the police regarding cutting of the apple trees
or any disobedience of the Hon'ble High Court. No
construction has been raised by the respondents on the suit
land. I visited village Gadheri last month. I am not
conversant with the site which is shown in the photographs
Ex. AW6/B to AW6/J. I do not know that the respondents
are raising construction on Khasra No. 340 and the above
said photographs pertains to Khasra No. 254 and 340. The
parking of the respondents is about 200 mtrs., away from
the house of the respondents. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 5990 of 2020 in RSA No. 513 of 2016
RW-2: Statement of Sh. Nimat Ram, S/o Shri Nathu
 Ram, R/o Village Gadherani, P.O. Kalath,
 Tehsil Manali, District Kullu, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 06.11.2023
 Stated that the parties to the lis are known to me
 as they are related to me. Smt. Maya Devi plaintiff has
 been married in Manikaran area. The in laws of Smt. Maya
 Devi are about 60-70 Kms., away of village Gadherani.
 Ram Dass had expired about 12-13 years ago. The
 property of Ram Dass is situated at village Gadherani. Smt.
 Maya Devi is not in possession of any of the properties of
 her father Shri Ram Dass. The properties of Shri Ram Dass
 has been possessed by his sons. The respondents have
 raised the parking on the suit land about -6-7 years ago. Self
 stated they have constructed a Hotel at village Gadherani.
 There are two Hotels of the respondents. One Hotel was
 constructed by Shri Ram Dass and the other Hotel has been
 constructed by Tule Ram. The distance between my house
 and the disputed land is about ½ kilometer. xxx xxx xxx Shri Kapil Dev Sood, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Het Ram Thakur,
 Advocate. The Hotel has been constructed by Tula Ram 6-7
 years ago. Self stated that the same has not been
 constructed by him on his father land, however, the same
 has been constructed by purchasing the separate land by
 him. I do not know the property which the subject matter
of the suit. I do not know the Khasra Numbers on which
 CMP No. 5990 of 2020 in RSA No. 513 of 2016

the Hotels have been constructed. I do not know that the
appellant Maya Devi had lodged complaints to the police
and the authorities regarding cutting of the apple trees and
raising construction for parking and house. The
construction shown in Ex. AW6/F, G, H and J, pertains to
the members of the family and the property as reflected in
the photographs still exists as of date. Photographs Ex.
AW6/B to Ex. AW6/E may be the photographs of the said
disputed property. I do not know the construction apparent
on the photographs Ex. AW6/B to Ex. AW6/J, was being
raised by the respondents in the year 2020. It is incorrect
that the construction in the photographs has been made by
the respondents after cutting the apple trees. I do know the
year in which construction has been raised as shown in the
above said photographs. Self stated that I am illiterate
person. It is incorrect that I am deposing false since I am in
hand in glove with the respondents. Self stated that both
the parties are in relation to me. I do not know whether
Smt. Maya Devi has challenged the will of her father Ram
Dass. It is correct that there is no vacant land in the vicinity
of the disputed land. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 6th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 5990 of 2020 in RSA No. 513 of 2016
06.11.2023
Present: - Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Shri K.D. Sood, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Het Ram, Advocate, for the respondents. Statement of Shri Gopal Thakur and Nimat Ram,
are recorded as RW1 and RW2, respectively. Ms. Bhavna
Devi, Senior Assistant of RSA Section of this Registry is
also present with the record. Learned counsel for the non-
applicant has submitted that due to inadvertence they have
failed to apply for the certified copy, which are required to
be tendered and proved from the witness summoned from the
High Court. Learned counsel submits that the witness with
the record may be allowed to be summoned again. Accordingly, the witness Ms. Bhavna Devi,
Senior Assistant, RSA Section of this Registry is discharged
for today. Let the fresh summons be issued for the service of
remaining witnesses on the date fixed by the Additional
Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if any, be taken within two
weeks. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 06.11.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General,
 for the applicant. Mr. Vanshaj Azad, Advocate vice Mr.
 Rajul Chauhan, for the respondent. As per the office report, the i.e., list of witness,
PF and road and diet money for the service of AWs have not
been filed. Learned Deputy Advocate General seeks some
more time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within two weeks,
thereafter, the process be issued for the service of AWs
returnable for 20.12.20223. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 4584 of 2019 in RSA No. 164 of 2019

07.11.2023
Present: - Mr. G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Vide order dated 23.08.2023, the learned counsel
for the applicant has submitted that they will produce Shri
Sunil Kumar, at their own responsibility. Shri Sunil Kumar
witness is present today. However, learned senior counsel for
the applicant submits that he has to move appropriate
application so that the photographs placed on record could be
proved in accordance with law. Learned counsel for the
applicant seeks adjournment, which is not opposed by the
learned counsel for the opposite party. Accordingly, the witness present today is
discharged. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court
after filing the appropriate application by the learned senior
counsel for the applicant. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 2021
08.11.2023
Present: - Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General,
 for the appellant. Learned Deputy Advocate General submits that
the State has made correspondence to the Superintendent of
Police, Solan, Himachal Pradesh on 02.11.2023, informing
the orders of the Hon'ble Court qua recording of the
statement of the official, who has affixed the copy of notice
under Section 82 of the Cr. PC. Learned Deputy Advocate General further
submits that neither any official has come to the Court today
nor any communication has been received from the side of
Superintendent of Police, Solan. Accordingly, the statement could not be recorded.
Since the actual date for recording of the statement of official
concerned has been given by the Hon'ble Court, therefore,
the time cannot be extended by the undersigned. Let the
matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate
orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

AW-1: Statement of Sh. Shyam Dass aged about 63
 years S/o Nakli Ram, Village & P.O.
 Ranikotla, Tehsil Sadar, District Bilaspur, H.P.
 On Oath
 08.11.2023
 Stated that I came to know about the award of
 the reference Court from my relative in the year 2018.
 Thereafter, I visited the office of the Advocate at Bilaspur
 and asked him to apply for the copy. The Advocate at
 Bilaspur told me that the compensation has been awarded to
 us on lesser side and he further advised us to file an appeal
 against the award in the High Court at Shimla. Due to the
 non-information of the passing of the award, death of our
 father Shri Nakli and paucity of the funds also we could
 not file the appeal in time. xxx xxx xxx Shri Romesh Verma, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate.
 Advocate. I do not remember the date of the passing of the
 award by the learned District Judge Bilaspur. I came to
 know about the passing of the award in the year 2018 when
 the other persons started to get the compensation amount. I
 came to know about the award from Shri Amar Nath who
 got the compensation pursuant to that award. I do not
 remember the date and month, however, I got applied for
 the copy of the award in the year 2018 from my Advocate.
 I received the certified copy of the award after about one
 and half months from it applying. It is incorrect that I was
aware of the passing of the award I intentionally did not file

 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

the appeal in time. It is incorrect that my father has
wrongly averred all the facts in application for
condonation of delay. I have not read the application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act filed by my father. I do not
know in the application for condonation of delay my father
has averred that he came to about the passing of the award
in the month of August, 2018. I am aware that before
August 2018 my father had filed an Execution Petition
before the reference Court. I do not remember that in that
Execution Petition notices had been issued to the
respondents for 15.01.2018. I am not aware that the
respondents had filed the objection in that Execution
Petition before the reference Court. I do not know on
27.07.2019, out Advocate had withdrawn the Execution
Petition before the reference Court. It is correct that on
account of the agreement dated 03.04.2008 executed
between my father and J.P. Himachal Cement Plant
(respondent No.2) my father had received an amount of
Rs.6,83,710/-. Self stated that, that amount was paid to my
father regarding widening of curb on the road. It is correct
that the said amount was paid by respondent No.2 (J.P.
Cement Plant Bagga). I indentify signature of my Father
Ex. AW1/A in red circle on the agreement dated
03.04.2008. I do not know that in view of the receiving of
 the said amount my father had executed an affidavit to that
effect. I indentify signature of my Father Ex. AW1/B in red
circle on the receipt issued on 05.04.2008, by the J.P.
Cement Plant. It is incorrect that we do not have sufficient
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

amount event after receiving the compensation amount
from respondent No.2 to file the appeal. My father had
expired on 15.02.2020. It is correct that at the time of filing
of the appeal my father was alive. It is incorrect that my
father was earlier satisfied with the award amount but
thereafter due to greed this RFA has been filed on false
ground. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General, High Court of Himachal
 Pradesh. I adopt the cross examination of respondent
No.2. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

8th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

AW-2: Statement of Sh. Hariman @ Hari Ram aged
 about 68 years S/o Shri Ganga Ram, Village &
 P.O. Ranikotla, Tehsil Sadar, District Bilaspur,
 H.P.
 On Oath
 08.11.2023
 Stated that I came to know about the award of
 the reference Court from Shri Amar Nath in the year 2018,
 when he received the compensation amount. Thereafter, I
 contacted out Advocate at Bilaspur. Our Advocate
 informed us that compensation amount has been awarded
 by the reference Court on lesser side and he also advised us
 to file appeal against the award. After arranging the money
 we came to Shimla for filing the appeal in the meanwhile
 we also asked our Advocate to apply for the copy of the
 award for filing the appeal. xxx xxx xxx Shri Romesh Verma, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate.
 Advocate. I do not know the date of the passing of the
 award by the learned District Judge Bilaspur. I do not
 remember the date and month, however, Amar Nath told us
 about the award in the year 2018. I do not remember the
 month in which we asked out Advocate for applying the
 copy of award. Self stated that we applied for the copy in
 the year 2018. In the same year, we received the certified
 copy of the award. I do not remember that we had filed an
 Execution Petition before the reference Court in which the
 summon has been issued to the respondent for 15.01.2018.
It is correct that in the Execution Petition we have engaged
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 in RSA

Shri Nand Lal, Thakur as Counsel. I do not know that the
said Execution Petition was withdrawn by out Advocate on
22.06.2019. It is correct that I have received an amount of
Rs. 2,32,904/- from respondent No.2. I identify my
signature Ex. AW2/A in red circle on the agreement dated
03.04.2008. In pursuance to that I executed an affidavit
acknowledging the above said amount. It is correct that my
brother Shri Gopal Dass has also received an amount of
Rs.2,32,903/- from J.P. Cement Plant. It is incorrect that
we do not have any paucity at any point of time since we
have received the compensation amount. It is incorrect that
I am deposing false. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General, High Court of Himachal
 Pradesh. I adopt the cross examination of respondent
No.2. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

8th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

08.11.2023
Present: - Mr. Pushpinder Kumar, Advocate with Mr.
 B.S. Thakur, Advocate for the applicants. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for
 respondent No.1-State. Mr. Romesh Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent No.2. Statement of witnesses Shri Shaym Dass and Shri
Hariman are recorded as AW1 and AW2, respectively.
Learned counsel for the applicant vide his separate statement
has closed the evidence on behalf of the applicant. Learned
senior counsel for the respondents seeks time for RWs. Let
the steps, if any, be taken within fifteen days. Thereafter,
the process be issued for the service of RWs for the date to
be fixed by Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1532 of 2019 a/w CMP(M) No. 1533

 Statement of Sh. Pushpinder Kumar, Advocate,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 08.11.2023
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf
applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

8th November, 2023
 (Pritam) COPC No. 106 of 2018 09.11.2023
 Present: Shri Hitesh Thakur with Sh. Romesh Verma,
 Sr. Advocate, for the petitioner.
 Ms. Kusum, Advocate, vice Ms. Seema K
 Guleria, Advocate, for the respondents. The learned vice counsel for the petitioner has
 submitted that no witness is present today. He seeks time
 for producing the remaining witnesses and seeks
 adjournment today. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today.
 Let the remaining witnesses be produced on self
 responsibility on the next date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar Judicial. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
09th November , 2023
 (gaurav) Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 DW-1: Statement of Sh. Shiv Kumar aged about 53
 years S/o Shri Ram Lok Garg, Village
 Ambwala & P.O. Panjehara, Tehsil Nalagarh,
 District Solan, H.P.
 On Oath
 10.11.2023
 Stated that I have entered into an agreement for
 sale with the plaintiffs qua sale of the land measuring 335
 bighas. Out of the total land of 335 Bhigas I had entered
 into an agreement with the plaintiff to sell 220 Bhigas @
 Rs. 2,80,000/- per Bigha. The parties to the agreement had
 agreed that the registry of the aforesaid land is to be
 executed within one month from the date of agreement
 initially qua 50 Bhigas of the land. The plaintiffs before
 entering into the agreement to sale verified all the Revenue
 documents from the Revenue Authorities. The plaintiffs
 also met personally with the land owners who were agreed
 to sell their land pursuant to the agreement. In spite of
 agreement to sell the plaintiffs did not adhere to the terms
 of the agreement and the sale deed was not registered by the
 plaintiffs. Therefore, they have been fully breach the terms
 and conditions of the agreement. I personally met the
 plaintiffs and requested for the execution of the sale deed
 but the plaintiffs did not pay any heed to my request. The
 plaintiffs had forged first page of the agreement to sell Ex.
 PW8/A and thereby change the terms and conditions of the
 agreement. The plaintiffs in the first page of the agreement
 Ex. PW8/A has averred that the entire land belongs to me
 however, I have also entered into the agreement to sell with
the other co-owner of the land who had agreed to sell the
land to the plaintiffs. Again stated that in the first page of
the agreement the plaintiff has changed the wording that the
seller has purchased about 220 Bhigas of the land from
various land owners through registered sale deed for which
mutation No. 700 had been sanctioned in his favour on
7.5.2007 out of the entire land. In fact, as stated above I
had also entered into an agreement to sell with the other
owners of the land who had interested to sell the land to the
plaintiffs. I repeatedly requested the plaintiffs to get the
sale deed executed, but they intentionally and willfully did
not executed the sale deed and as they were not ready and
willing to perform their part of the agreement from the very
initiation. I am ready to perform my part of the agreement
as of today as per the prevailing market price. The plaintiff
has filed a false case against me without any basis, as I am
always ready and willing to sell the property as per the
agreement. xxx xxx xxx Shri G.D.Verma Sr.
Advocate assisted by Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate. The plaintiffs are known to me for the year
2007. I met the plaintiffs through the son of Patwari Sh.
Devinder Kumar Gupta.I do not know that the plaintiffs
have examined Sh. Devinder Kumar Gupta as PW-8. Sh.
Devdinder Kumar Gupat is the resident of Dharmpur
District Solan. It is correct that Devinder Gupta(PW-8)
convened the meeting with the plaintiffs and myself. It is
 correct that in that meeting negotiations were conducted
regarding the sale and purchase of the land in suit. It is
correct that during the negations I have disclosed to the
plaintiffs that I have land in village Teedon and Dahar
and the price of the land @ Rs. 2,80,000/- per bigha. I have
entered into the agreement in the plaintiffs show room at
Salogra, District Solan. It is incorrect that I had disclosed
to the plaintiffs that the mutation No.700 has been attested
in my favour for the land measuring 220 bhigas. I was
introduced to the plaintiffs by Sh. Devinder Kumar Gupta
one week prior to the date of the execution of the
agreement. It is correct that the agreement to sell was
executed at Salogra on 19.07.2007. Self stated that the first
page of the agreement Ex. PW8/A has been forged by the
plaintiffs subsequently. By changing the first page the
plaintiffs have amended the details and specifications of the
land. It is correct that I am also know as S.K. Garg. It is
correct that my fathers name is Sh. R.K. Garg. On
19.07.2007 the plaintiffs handed over to me two cheques
amounting to Rs. 25lacs and 35 lacs. It is correct that on the
same date the plaintiffs gave me 2.5lacs in cash pursuant to
the agreement to sell. It is incorrect that negations
pertaining to sale and purchase of the land were started
between us prior to 07.06.2007. Sh. Ravinder Kumar S/o
Sh. Chetter Singh, Stamp Vendor at Kandaghat is known to
me. I do not know that the plaintiffs have examined Sh.
Ravinder Kumar as PW-7 in the present case on
02.03.2015. I do not know that the agreement to sell Ex.
 PW8/A was drafted on the stamp papers which were
purchased by me above said stamp vendor on 07.06.2007.
It is incorrect that the stamp papers which is in the court file
as Ex.PW8/A are the same which were purchased by me. It
is correct that cheques amounting to Rs. 25lacs and 35 lacs
have been credited in my bank account. I have not placed
on record any specific jamabandi pertaining to the sale of
50 bhigas of the land for which the sale deed was to be
executed initially. Self stated that I have placed on record
entire jamabandi of the land on record. I was ready to
execute the sale deed pertaining to the 50 bhigas of the land
which is shown in jamabandi for the year 2006-07 Ex.
PW6/K and Ex. PW6/L. It is correct that I am not owner in
possession of the land specified in Ex PW6/K and Ex.
PW6/L. Self state I have entered into an agreement to sell
with the owners of the said land. Smt Saraswati widow of
Kirpal Singh etc. are owner of the said land which is shown
in Ex. PW6/K and Ex. PW6/L. The owners of the said land
had entered into the agreement with me @ of 1.25lacs per
bhiga. I entered into the agreement with the owners of the
said land in the year 2007. I had paid an amount of Rs. 1.12
crore to the owners of the entire land measuring 335
Bhigas. mentioned in Ex. PW6/K and Ex. PW6/L. I have
paid the entire amount for the entire land to the land owner
which I had entered into the agreement to sell which was to
be disbursed amongst the land owners as per their share.
Self stated that I had also paid the commission amounting
to Rs. 2lacs to Sh. Lakhwinder Singh who is related to the
 land owners. I had entered into three agreements to sell
pertaining to the entire land measuring 335 Bhigas. I had
not placed above said three agreements in the Court. I have
not filed any civil suit against the land owners on the basis
of the above said three agreements. Self stated that I have
good relations with the land owners due to which I have not
filed any Civil suit against them. It is correct that one
criminal case pending adjudication in the Court of Judicial
Magistrate Solan, self stated that has been filed against me
on wrong facts. I do not know the original agreement
pertaining to this case has been filed in that criminal case. It
is incorrect that receipt pertaining to Rs. 2,50,000/- is the
same vide which I had received the said amount in cash. I
also deny the entire agreement Ex. PW8/A.
 At this stage, ld. Sr. Counsel for the plaintiffs has
submitted the witness is required to be confronted with the
original to agreement to sale as well as other documents
which are placed in the criminal file which are pending for
adjudication in the Court of ld. Judicial Magistrate, Solan.
The learned Sr. Counsel has submitted that he will take the
further course of action for summoning the record of ld.
JMIC. Accordingly, the cross-examination of the witness is
deferred today. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 11th November, 2023
 (gaurav)
 Civil Suit No. 65of 2011
 10.11.2023
 Present: Shri G.D.Verma, learned Sr. Advocate with
 Sh. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiffs
 Sh. Beli Ram Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Sh. Shiv Kumar DW-1 was present for
 adducing evidence. During cross-examination learned Sr.
 Advocate for the plaintiffs has submitted that the witness is
 required to be confronted with the original agreement to sell
 as well as other documents which are placed in the Criminal
 file which is pending for adjudication in the Court of
 learned JMIC, Solan. The learned Sr. Advocate further
 submitted that he will take the appropriate further course of
 action for summoning the record of the learned JMIC. Accordingly, the cross-examination of this
 witness is deferred. Let the case be listed in the Hon'ble Court as
 and when the steps for summoning of the record of learned
 Court of JMIC, Solan is taken by the learned Sr. Advocate. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
09th November , 2023
 (gaurav)
 CMP(M) No. 2019 of 2019 in RSA
 16.11.2023
 Present: Shri Aditya Chauhan, Advocate, vice counsel
 for applicant/ appellant. Ms. Hem Lata Vyas, Advocate, for
 respondents No. 1(a) to 1(f). Respondent No.2 already ex-parte. As per office report, steps for the service of
 witnesses have not been taken by the applicant. Learned
 vice counsel seeks some more time for taking the steps. Let the steps be taken within two weeks,
 thereafter, the process be issued for service of AWs for the
 date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th November , 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 359 of 2018 17.11.2023
 Present: Shri Ganesh Barowalia, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Raj Negi, Advocate, for the appellants.
 Shri Ashok Kumar, Advocate, vice
 Mr. Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate for
 respondents No. 1 and 2. None for respondents No. 3 to 6. Vide order dated 20.10.2023, of the Hon'ble
 Court, the parties to the lis were directed to remain present
 before the undersigned to admit the compromise. Smt.
 Dharmo Devi and Shri Sunil Kumar (Respondents No. 1
 and 2) are present, however, the Appellants and Performa
 Respondents are not present. Learned vice counsel for the appellants on
 instructions submits that the parties will be produced on the
 next date of hearing and he seeks adjournment for today. Since the actual date for the presence of parties
 has been given by the Hon'ble Court, therefore, the time for
 producing the parties cannot be extended by the
 undersigned. Accordingly, the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court on the date already fixed i.e. 24.11.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Note: Court Master is requested to apprise the Hon'ble
Court about the above said order at the time of hearing of
the matter. DW-1: Statement of Sh. Ayush Negi S/o Late Shri
 K.S. Negi, aged about 35 years, presently
 working as Assistant Manager, National
 Insurance Company Ltd., Divisional Office
 Himland Hotel, Shimla-171 001, Himachal
 Pradesh
 On Oath
 20.11.2023
 Stated that I have brought the Authority Letter
 as well as Power of Attorney Ex. DW1/A, vide which I
 have been authorized to adduce evidence on behalf of the
 company. The National Insurance Company vide Board of
 Resolution dated Mark D1, dated 16.05.1989, has
 authorized all Senior Divisional Manager, Divisional
 Managers, Deputy Managers, Assistant Managers and
 Administrative Officers and Assistant Branch Managers to
 act appear and prosecute defendant adduce evidence on
 behalf of the company. Policy DW1/B, Ex. DW1/C and
 DW1/D were duly issued by the defendant company in
 favour of plaintiff for the period 01.04.2003 to 31.03.2004,
 03.04.2006 to 02.04.2007 and 01.04.2007 to 31.03.2008,
 respectively. The terms and conditions of all the three
 policies are Mark D2, which were issued at the time of
 above said policies. The plaintiff intimated the defendant
 company about their claim vide letters Ex.PW1/G to Ex.
 PW1/J as well as Ex. PW2/D. After receiving the above
 said letters pertaining to the claim of the company, the
 defendant company issued the letters Ex.PW1/K and
 Ex.PW1/L and asked the plaintiff to provide the policy
details to the defendant company, which were provided Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 vide letter Ex.PW2/E, dated 15.09.2010. Vide Ex PW1/M,
the defendant company asked the plaintiff company to
provide the details of claim and documents like FIR etc.
The claim Forms Ex. PW1/O to PW1/ Q were submitted by
the plaintiff alongwith letter dated 09.12.2010 Ex.PW1/N.
The claims of the plaintiff repudiated by the defendant
company on the basis of the terms and conditions of the
Insurance company vide letters dated 10.03.2011, Ex.
PW1/R to Ex. PW1/T. The terms and conditions which
were filed by the plaintiff alongwith PW2/A, PW2/B and
PW2/C, are not the same, which were issued by the
company at the time of issuance of the policy. The
insurance claim of the company has been rightly repudiated
by the defendant company in view of the terms and
conditions at the time of the issuance of the policies. xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhjupender Gupta
 Senior Advocate assisted by Shri Janesh
 Gupta, Advocate. I am working in the Divisional Office of the Insurance
Company Himland Shimla since November 2021. It is
correct that the policies Ex. PW/2A to PW/2C (also
exhibited as DW1/B to DW/D) were not issued during my
tenure in the Branch Office, Shimla. I do not have the
personal knowledge about the documents which were
issued by the defendant company to the plaintiff. It is
 incorrect that Mark D2 are not the terms and conditions of
the insurance company which were issued to the plaintiff. It
is incorrect that the terms and conditions which were Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 annexed with the plaintiff alongwith the insurance policies
Ex. PW/2A to PW/2C were issued at the time of issuance of
the policies to the plaintiff. I do not know the concerned
official who had issued the policies at the relevant point of
time. It is incorrect that being an official of the insurance
company I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th November, 2023
 (gaurav) Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 Statement of Shri Jagdish Thakur, Advocate
 for defendant Insurance-Company. Without oath
 20.11.2023

 Stated that I give up Shri Mohit Yadav,
Administrative Officer, National Insurance Company Ltd.,
Divisional Office, Himland, Shimla being repetitive in
nature and close the evidence on behalf of the defendants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th November, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4086 of 2013 20.11.2023
 Present: Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Yogesh Malhotra and Shri Jagdish
 Thakur with Shri Sushant Kishore, Advocates
 for the defendants. Statement of Shri Ayush Negi, is recorcded as
 DW/1. Learned counsel for the defendants vide his separate
 statement has given up Shri Mohit Yadav and close the
 evidence on behalf of defendants. Since the evidence on
 behalf of the parties are complete, therefore, the matter be
 listed before the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1363 of 2022 in RSAST

 AW1 Statement of Shri Hem Raj S/o Shri
 Basant Ram aged about 69 years R/o of
 Village Batlhu, P.O. Dakhyora, Tehsil
 Bijhari, District Hamirpur, Himachal
 Pradesh. On oath
 21.11.2023

 Stated that the judgment was passed by the first
appellate Court on 30.09.2021. We were not aware about
the date of the judgment passed by the first appellate Court
and we were waiting for the correspondence/information
from our Advocate regarding the next date of hearing. We
have not received any information regarding the next date
in our case, so I visited the office of our counsel at
Ghumarwin in the month of February 2022, on which our
Advocate informed me that no next date has been fixed in
our case. However, the case has finally decided by the
Court. I asked our Advocate for the certified copy of the
judgment then our Advocate informed us that he has
applied the copy of the judgment. We received the copy of
judgment from our counsel late in the month of April 2022,
due to the outbreak of COVID 19 pandemic, during that
period. In the intervening period I also contacted our
Advocate in the High Court on which our counsel in the
High Court informed that there are winter vacations in the
High Court he asked us to come after opening of the Court
after winter vacation. After opening of the High Court we
 came to Shimla and handed over the certified copy of the
judgment to our counsel on 26.04.2022 for filing the appeal. CMP(M) No. 1363 of 2022 in RSAST

Our counsel also asked for the entire case file for
preparation of the appeal. Thereafter, I went again back to
Ghumarwin and contacted my counsel, on which my
counsel at Ghumarwin told that our file has been misplaced
and as and when the file will be traced, he will
telephonically informed me. I received the telephone call
from our Advocate at Ghumarwin in the month of June,
2022 and thereafter collected the file from the office of our
Advocate at Ghumarwin and handed over to my counsel at
High Court in the first week of July, 2022. There is no
intentional or deliberate delay on my part in filing the
appeal. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate,
 for the respondents

 I am Post Graduate. It is incorrect that we did
not take the follow up of our case from our Advocate. Self
stated that being Senior Citizen, it is not possible for me to
go to the Court or to the office of my Advocate personally
on each and every hearing. Moreover, during COVID19
period the Govt. had advised the senior citizens not to move
frequently outside. I do not know the period of limitation
within which the appeal is required to be filed. It is
incorrect that in the month of September-October 2021
onwards the restrictions pertaining to COVID 19 were
 relaxed. It is incorrect that I have received the certified
copy of judgment and decree on 20.01.2022. It is incorrect
that I was satisfied with the judgments of the Courts below
 CMP(M) No. 1363 of 2022 in RSAST

due to which I did not file the appeal in time. It is incorrect
that in order to harass the respondents, I have filed the
present appeal at belated stage. It is incorrect that I have
intentionally and deliberately did not contact my counsel
either at Ghumarwin or at Shimla for filing the appeal. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

21st November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1363 of 2022 in RSAST

 Statement of Shri Atul Kumar, Advocate for
 the applicant

 Without oath
 21.11.2023

 Stated that I give up other witnesses mentioned
in the list of witnesses being repetitive in nature and close
the evidence on behalf of the applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

21st November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1363 of 2022 in RSAST
 21.11.2023
 Present: Shri Atul Kumar, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Pranjal Munjal, Advocate, for the non-
 applicant/respondent No.1. Respondents No.3 and 4 already ex-parte. Statement of Shri Hem Raj, is recorcded as
 AW/1. Learned counsel for the applicants vide his separate
 statement has given up the other witnesses mentioned in the
 list of witnesses being repatative in nature and close the
 evidence on behalf of the applicants. Learned Senior Counsel for the non-applicant
 seeks time for taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be
 taken within fifteen days, thereafter, the process be issued
 for service of RWs returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 577 of 2023 in RSA No. 350 of 2011

 AW1 Statement of Shri Kushal Singh S/o Shri
 Jodha Mal aged about 46 years R/o of Village
 Dalgaon, P.O. Kutara, Tehsil Rohru, District
 Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 22.11.2023

 Stated that I am posted as Secretary at Gram
Panchayat Karalash, Tehsil Rohru, District Shimla,
Himachal Pradesh. The Birth and Death Register is to be
maintained by the Secretary of the concerned Gram
Panchayat. I have brought the original Birth and Death
Register. As per the record maintained by me in the Gram
Panchayat Shri Jania Ram S/o Shri Thebu Ram, has died on
06.04.2018. The Death Certificate Ex. AW1/A has been
prepared and signed by me which is true and correct as per
the original record brought by me today (original seen and
returned). xxx xxx xxx Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate,
 for the respondents

 The Death Certificate has been issued by me on
17.05.2023. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 577 of 2023 in RSA No. 350 of 2011

 AW2 Statement of Shri Krishan Singh S/o Shri
 Singhi Ram aged about 65 years R/o of
 Village Thamtari (Karalash, P.O. Kansakoti,
 Tehsil Rohru, District Shimla, Himachal
 Pradesh. On oath
 22.11.2023

 Stated that I have been intimated by my counsel
on 16.05.2023 that Jania (respondent) has died. My
counsel further asked me to bring the Death Certificate of
Jania, so that steps for bringing on record the LRs of Jania
can be taken. Therafter, I visited the office of Secretary
Gram Panchayat Karalash and verify the fact qua the death
of Jania and applied for the Death Certificate of respondent
Jania. Therafter, I supplied the copy of Death Certificate to
my counsel and filed the application in the Court. My
litigation with the respondent is going on since 2004. My
family is not in speaking and visiting terms with the
respondent family. We do not have any social relation with
each other. I was not aware about the factum of the death
of respondent (Jania) until the same fact was disclosed to
me by my counsel. xxx xxx xxx Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate,
 for the respondents. There are different inhabitation of different
families at some distances in our village. It is incorrect
that respondent (Jania) use to reside within our inhabitation
 area. Self stated that he use to reside at about 500 meters
away from the place, where we are residing. It is incorrect
 CMP(M) No. 577 of 2023 in RSA No. 350 of 2011

that after the two days of the death of Jania, I visited the
house of Jania with Shri Devender Fista. It is incorrect that
the path which leads to cremation ground passes infront of
my house. It is incorrect that I was well aware about the
factum of the death of Jania (respondent), when I visited the
house of Jania after his death. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 577 of 2023 in RSA No. 350 of 2011

 Statement of Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate
 for the applicant. Without oath
 22.11.2023

 Stated that I give up Shri Hardyal Singh being
repitative in nature and close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 577 of 2023 in RSA No. 350 of 2011
 22.11.2023
 Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant.
 Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate, for the
 proposed LRs. Statement of Shri Kushal Singh and Shri
 Krishan Singh, are recorcded as AW/1 and AW/2,
 respectively. Learned counsel for the applicant vide his
 separate statement has given up the other witnesses
 mentioned in the list of witnesses being repatative in nature
 and close the evidence on behalf of the applicant. Learned Counsel for the non-applicant seeks
 time for taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be taken
 within fifteen days, thereafter, the process be issued for
 service of RWs returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 AW4 Statement of Shri Hira Lal S/o Shri Tej Ram
 aged about 70 years R/o of Village & P.O.
 Dughilag, Tehsil and District Kullu,
 Himachal Pradesh. On oath
 23.11.2023

 Stated that the land in dispute belongs to me
and my brothers. My dispute pertaining to the land in lis is
with LRs of Tej Ram. We had filed a Civil Suit against
Shri Tej Ram in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division),
L&S at Kullu, which was decreed in our favour.
Thereafter, the other party filed an appeal before the Court
of District Judge Kullu, which was also dismissed.
Thereafter, Tej Ram filed the Second appeal in the High
Court, which is pending adjudication. The High Court
initially granted the stay order in the present appeal vide
order dated 08.11.2013, which was subsequently confirmed
on 26.12.2013. In order dated 08.11.2013, the the High
Court directed parties to the lis to maintain status quo qua
nature and possession of the suit land. Inspite of the stay
order from the High Court Tej Ram got the disputed land
demarcated from the Revenue department and sought the
permission from the Forest Department for cutting the trees.
Thereafter, I filed an application CMP No. 16333 of 2014,
which was disposed of as infructuous on 24.04.2015 as
contemnor had died. I had also filed another application for
the stay before the High Court, which was registered as
 CMP No. 16334 of 2014. In the reply to the application
CMP No. 16333 of 2014, the contemnor in his reply had
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

also tendered the apology. After the death of Tej Ram his
LRs handed over the possession of the suit property to M/s
Gour Hydro Power Project, Private Limited. Inspite of our
resistence not to hand over the possession to the Power
Project, they handed over the possession to Gour Hydro
Power Project. Thereafter, we issued notice Ex. AW1/A to
Gour Hydro Power Project, since they had constructed the
road on the suit land and the debris were thrown in the
adjoining land, which belongs to us. The Power Project had
started to construct the road in the suit land on 17.09.2016.
Therafter, I again filed the present application under order
39 Rule 2-A CPC for disobeying the orders of the Court by
the respondents. In the said application the High Court
appointed one Local Commissioner, namely Smt. Aruna
Chauhan, Advocate. Local Comissioner visited the spot
and thereafter filed her report Ex. AW2/A, in the Court.
The Power Project did not stop the work nor handed over
the possession to us. The Power Project had started the
work on account of the possession given by the LRs of Tej
Ram, who are stranger to the suit property. The
respondents have intentionally and delebrately disobeyed
the orders of Hon'ble Court. xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 the non-applicants/appellants.
 I have filed the suit in Kullu Court for
declaration. It is correct that I have not filed any
ddocument with any application from which it could be

 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

inferred that the LRs of Tej Ram had handed over the
possession to Gour Power Project. It is correct that in the
year 2010 and 2012, Tej Ram had executed the lease deeds
of the said land in favour Osaka Hydro Power Project. It is
correct that thereafter neither Tej Ram nor his LRs leased
the said land in favour of any person or Project. It is
incorrect that the LRs of Tej Ram are residing about 25
Kms. away from the land in dispute. Self stated that they
are residing 4-5 Kms. away. It is correct that the dumping
in the land in dispute has not been done by LRs of Tej Ram.
Self stated that the dumping has been done by the Power
Project in connivance with LRs of Tej Ram. It is incorrect
that there was orchard on the disputed land which was
washed out later on due to floods. It is incorrect that the
road was already in existence on the disputed land. Self
stated that land in disputed was in the shape of fields. In
the revenue record the disputed land has been recorded as
fields. I have seen the report filed by the Local
Commissioner. It is incorrect that the Local Commissioner
has pointed out that there is no violation on the part of Tej
Ram. It is incorrect that there is no role of LRs of Tej Ram
in any construction on the disputed land. It is incorrect that
 neither Tej Ram nor his Lrs have violated the order of the
Court. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

 xxx xxx xxx Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for
 the respondents No. 4 (Sarwari Power Project). Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

23rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

 Statement of Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate for the applicants. Without oath
 23.11.2023

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
applicants since the list of witnesses have exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

23rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013
 23.11.2023
 Present: Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior Advocate, with Ms.
 Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for the non-
 applicants/appellants. Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for respondent
 No.4, (Sarwari Power Project). Statement of Shri Hira Lal is recorded as AW4.
 Learned counsel for the applicants vide her separate
 statement has closed the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. Learned vice Counsel for the non-applicants
 seeks time for taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be
 taken within fifteen days, thereafter, the process be issued
 for service of RWs returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rd November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA 46 of 2017
 24.11.2023
 Present: Shri G.R. Palsra, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Ms. Shikha Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Learned counsel for the applicants seeks some
 more time for producing the witnesses on behalf of the
 applicants. Let the witnesses be produced on self
 responsibility on the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th November, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 79 of 2016 30.11.2023
 Present: Shri Vikas Deep, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Vedhant Ranta, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. As per previous order dated 13.10.2023, the
 plaintiff was required to be produced on self responsibility
 for adducing his evidence. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 due to some urgency, the plaintiff could not come to the
 Court for adducing his evidence. Learned counsel for the
 plaintiff seeks more time for producing the plaintiff on self
 responsibility. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility on the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th November, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 01.12.2023
 Present: Shri Amit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri. Naveen Awasthi, Advocate, vice H.S.
 Upadhaya, Advocate, for the for the
 defendant. The case was listed for plaintiff's evidence and
 the plaintiff is to be produced on self responsibility.
 Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to critical
 situation of mother-in-law of Shri Vikas Jain (PW3), whose
 cross examination has been deferred by the Court on
 04.10.2019, he is unable to come to the Court for adducing
 his evidence and sought adjournment for today. Keeping in view of the reasons submitted by
 the learned counsel for the plaintiff, the matter is adjourned
 for today. Let PW3 (Vikas Jain) be produced on the next
 date of hearing on self responsibility for his cross
 examination for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Statement of Shri Naresh Kumar Sharma,
 the then Court Master, High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh, Shimla-171 001. Stated that in the year 2019, I was posted as
Court Master with Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua.
During that relevant time, Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna
Rewal Dua, used to sit in Division Bench with Hon'ble Mr.
Justice Dharam Chand Chaudhary, J. (Retd.). The said case
was listed before the aforesaid Division Bench and the
judgment in the said matter was delivered on the same day,
therefore, there is no question of retaining the record.
Moreover, on that day after hearing the arguments, the
matter was assigned to Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal
Dua, for dictating the judgment. The record pertaining to
that case never handed over to me, since the judgment was
delivered on the same day and the same may be handed
over to the concerned person who has typed the judgment. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

2nd December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 a/w Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021

 04.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Neeraj Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr. Maan
 Singh, Advocate, for the plaintiff in Civil
 Suit No. 95 of 2020 and defendant/counter
 claimant in Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021.
 Mr. Janmajai Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Sunil Mohan Goel, Advocate, for the
 defendant in Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 and
 for the plaintiff/counter claimant in Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021 Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff in Civil
 Suit No. 95 of 2020, submits that no witness is present
 today as they have not been informed since the wife of the
 original counsel is admitted in the hospital. Learned vice
 counsel seeks time for producing the plaintiff witnesses on
 the next date of hearing on self responsibility. Learned vice counsel for the defendant/counter
 claimant has not objection to the prayer made by learned
 vice counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today.
 Let the the plaintiff in Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020, be
 produced on self responsibility on the next date of hearing
 to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th December, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 33 of 2018 05.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Peeyush Verma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Amit Himalvi, Advocate, vice Mr. M.S.
 Katoch, Advoccate for defendants No. 1 and 2. Ms. Aruna Chauhan, Advocate, for defendant
 No.3. As per the office report, summons issued to PW
 mentioned at Serial No. 1 in the list of witnesses is still
 awaited. Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits
 that the plaintiff is not available due to his illness. Learned
 counsel submits that he will produce the plaintiff on the
 next date of hearing on self responsibility. Accordingly, let the plaintiff be produced on
 self responsibility and PW mentioned at Serial No.1 be
 again summoned for adducing their evidence for the date to
 be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CWP No. 1715 of 2018 Statement of Balwinder Singh, Co-ordinator-HR FMABIL,
Plot No.5, Sector-II, Parwanoo, District Solan, Himachal
Pradesh. Stated that I have been duly authorized by the
company vide letter dated 25th July, 2022 and Board of
Director Resolution dated 8th December, 2015, to make
statement on behalf of the Company. I am placing on record
the letter dated 25.07.2022 and copy of the resolution of
Board of Director dated 08.12.2015 (original seen and
returned). The Company has entered into compromise in the
present CWP No. 1715 of 2018 and has agreed to pay an
amount of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rs. Five lacs only) as full and final
settlement of service benefits including gratuity to the LRs of
Shri Ram Surat Yadav, who was working with our company.
In lieu of the settlement arrived at with the LRs of Shri Ram
Surat Yadav, the Company is ready to hand over a cheque
No.012251, dated 04.12.2023, amounting to Rs.5,00,000/-
(Rs. Five lacs only) drawn in HDFC Bank, Kalka Haryana in
favour of Shri Sarvesh Kumar Yadav, S/o Shri Ram Surat
Yadav, who has been duly authorized by Smt. Dulari Devi,
Shri Manish Kumar Yadav and Ms. Sarla Yadav. I am also
placing on record the copy of the settlement (the same has
been taken on record). In view of the full and final amicable settlement,
the case may be disposed of. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

5th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CWP No. 1715 of 2018 Statement of Sarvesh Kumar Yadav S/o Shri Ram Surat
Yadav, R/o village Puraghannee, P.O. Ambari, Tehsil
Phoolpur, District Azamgarh, U.P.

 Stated that I have been duly authorized by my
mother, brother and sister to enter into compromise with the
Company. They have authorized me to make the statement
and enter into the compromise and receive the money on
my and their behalf vide Special Power of Attorney dated
30.11.2023 (which is taken on record). The Company has
offered an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rs. Five lacs only) as
full and final settlement, which is aggreable to me and my
mother, brother and sister. In view of the compromise entered between
myself, mother, brother and sister as well as Company, the
case may be disposed of accordingly. I am making the
above said statement volunternly and without any undue
influence and coercion. The settlement dated 04.12.2023,
bears my signature. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

5th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CWP No. 1715 of 2018 05.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for the
 petitioner. Mr. V.D. Khidtta, Advocate, for the
 respondents. As per mention memo received from the
 Secretary to Hon'ble the Chief Justice, the undersigned was
 directed to record the statements. In compliance of the
 aforesaid direction of Hon'ble the Chief Justice, statement
 of Shri Balwinder Singh (Petitioner) and Shri Sarvesh
 Kumar (Special Power of Attorney respondent), are
 recorded. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2023
 (Pritam)

Note: Court Master of the Hon'ble Court is requested to - apprise the Hon'ble Court with respect to recording of
 statements at the time of taking up of the matter. CMP(M) No. 478 & 479 of 2023

 06.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Vinod Gupta, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Abhishek Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent. As per office report, steps i.e., list of witnesses,
 road and diet money etc., has not been taken by the
 applicant till date. Learned counsel for the applicant seeks
 some time for taking the steps. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter the process be issued for the service of AWs
 returnable for 10.01.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 612 of 2015
 Statement of ASI Rakesh Kumar, Police
 Station Dhalli, Shimla-12, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 06.12.2023
 Stated that the SHO Police Station Dhalli,
Shimla, H.P., handed over me proclamation notice for
affixing the same at some conspicuous place of
Village Kach-ka-Para, P.O. Arangi, Police Station
Ghagra, Tehsil and District Gumla Jharkhand, in
which the accused Suresh Urao used to reside. In
compliance to that I affixed the copy of proclamation
on 05.10.2023, at the residence of the accused in the
presence of witnesses (parents of the accused). The
said proclamation was read over to the general public
present at that time. I on the same day, i.e. on
05.10.2023, also affixed the second copy of
proclamation notice at conspicious place (Chuoraha)
of the Village Kach-ka-Para in the presence of the
witnesses and the same was read over to the general
public present there at that time. Further, on
04.11.2023, I also affixed the copy of the
proclamation on the notice Board of the High Court of
Himachal Pradesh in the presence of the witnesses.
The signatures of the witnesses were also obtained by
 me on the back side of the proclamation notice. After
affixation of proclamation notices at the respective
 Criminal Appeal No. 612 of 2015

places, I submitted the compliance report to SHO,
Police Station Dhalli, Shimla. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 10 of 2021 06.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Y.P. Sood, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Parul Negi, Advocate, for the defendants. Shri Kitab Singh and Shri Neelam Kumar,
 witnesses of the defendants are present today. Learned
 counsel for the defendants submits that the defendants want
 to place on record certain document, which could not be
 inadvertently filed with the written statement. Learned
 counsel for the defendants seeks time to move the
 appropriate application for placing on record the documents. Learned counsel for the plaintiff opposed the
 prayer of the defendants. In the interest of justice one opportunity is
 granted to the defendants for doing the needful. Let the
 case be listed before the Hon'ble Court after filing the
 appropriate application, if any, by the defendants. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 612 of 2015

 06.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Ayushi Negi, Deputy Advocate General
 for the appellant-State. None for the respondents. In compliance to the order dated 22.11.2023,
 statement of ASI Rakesh Kumar, Police Station Dhalli,
 Shimla, is recorded who has affixed the proclamation
 notice. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CMP No. 1328 of 2022 07.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Rajiv Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Surinder Saklani, Advocate, for the
 respondent. As per office report, the list of witnesses has
 been filed on 04.12.2023. Learned counsel for the applicant
 has submitted that the appellant has to come from Kinnaur
 but due to some personal work, he could not come to the
 Court today. Learned counsel further submits that he will
 produce the witnesses (AWs) as mentioned in the list of
 witnesses on self responsibility on the next date of hearing. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 07.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy Advocate General
 for the applicants. None for the respondents. As per office report, the AWs in the present
 CMP(M) has been duly served and the date of evidence on
 behalf of the applicant has been fixed for 20.12.2023. CMP(M) No. 668, 670, 672 & 673 of 2023

 As per office report, in these connected matters,
 the steps have not been taken by the applicants. Learned
 Deputy Advocate General has submitted that she will take
 the steps within three days and prayed that these matters be
 also listed for AWs alongwith CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023,
 since almost the same witnesses are required to be
 examined in all the matters. Accordingly, let the steps be taken within three
 days, thereafter, the process be issued for service of AWs
 returnable for 20.12.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 2021

 11.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy Advocate General
 for the appellant. None for the respondents. In compliance to the order dated 04.12.2023, of
 the Hon'ble Court, statement of LC Priyanka Sharma 316,
 is recorded, who has affixed the proclamation. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 2021
 Statement of Ms. Priyanka Sharma, LC 316,
 PP Junga, Police Station Dhalli, Shimla-12,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.12.2023
 Stated that the SHO Police Station Dhalli,
Shimla, H.P., handed over me proclamation notice for
affixing the same at some conspicuous place of
Village Pendali, Gram Panchayat Bharech, P.O.
Junga, Tehsil and District Shimla, in which the
accused Sandeep S/o Shri Jeet Bahadur, used to reside.
In compliance to that I affixed the copy of
proclamation on 02.08.2023, at the Notice Board of
Tehsil Junga, in the presence of witnesses Shri
Visheshwar Sharma, (Reader of the Naib Tehsildar).
On the same day, I also affixed the proclamation
notice at the Notice Board of Gram Panchayat
Bharech, in the presence of Pardhan Shri Madan
Mohan Thakur and the same was read over to the
general public present there at that time. On
03.08.2023, I also affixed the copy of proclamation
notice at the Notice Board of the office of District and
Sessions Judge Court, Shimla, in the presence of Shri
Prem Dogra (Naib Court of the said Court). The
signatures of the witnesses were also obtained by me
 on the back side of the proclamation notice. After
affixation of proclamation notices at the respective
 Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 2021

places, I submitted the compliance report to SHO,
Police Station Dhalli, Shimla. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 2831 of 2021 in RSa No. 511 of 2016

 11.12.2023
 Present: None for the parties. Neither any counsel nor any witness is present. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for remaining
 AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 8 of 2021 PW-12 Statement of Shri Saurabh Kumar, S/o Late
 Shri Santosh Kumar aged about 37 years,
 presently working as Superintendent (Legal) in
 the office of Principal Commissioner CGST,
 Chotta Shimla-171 002, H.P.
 On Oath
 12.12.2023
 Stated that I am presently working as
Superintendent (Legal) in the office of Principal
Comissioner CGST, Chotta Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. I
have brought the summoned record. The lease agreement
dated 23.03.2018 Ex.PW12/A (six leaves), which is true
and correct as per the original retained by our office,
except the original above said lease deed I have not
brought any other record. The original file of our office
has been sent to CPWD office for renewal of the lease-
cum-license agreement. Mark P pertains to the noting of
our official file, which is not maintained in our office
generally in the physical form. At this stage, learned counsel for the plaintiff
submits that since this witness has not brought the entire
original record, therefore, the witness present today may
be deferred. Accordingly, the witness is deferred for
today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 8 of 2021 PW-13 Statement of Shri Jagdish Gupta, S/o Late
 Shri T.R. Gupta aged about 57 years,
 presently working as Assistant Registrar,
 H.P,. State Information Commission,
 Keonthal Complex, Khalini, Shimla- 171
 002, H.P.
 On Oath
 12.12.2023
 Stated that I have not brought the entire
original summoned record as the same has been sent to the
Government of Himachal Pradesh for approval, budget
and permission for acquiring the accommodation. At this stage, learned counsel for the plaintiff
submits that since this witness has not brought the entire
original record, therefore, the witness present today may
be deferred. Accordingly, the witness is deferred for
today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 8 of 2021 12.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Ranvir Singh, Advocate, for the plaintiff. and 2
 None for defendant No.3. Shri Saurabh, Superintendent (Legal) from the
 office of CGST, Chotta Shimla, (PW-12), Shri Jagdish Gupta,
 Assistant Registrar (PW-13), from the office of H.P. State
 Information Commission, Shri B.C. Sharma, are present. The
 examination of Shri Saurabh and Shri Jagdish Gupta are deferred
 today since these witnesses have not brought the entire original
 record. Shri B.C. Sharma, (Expert) is also present today but
 learned counsel for defendants No. 1 and 2, showed his inability
 to cross examine to this witness since the report prepeared by the
 Shri B.C. Sharma (Expert) has been handed over to him
 yesterday only. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has no
 objection qua the non-examination of Shri B.C. Sharma, today. As per the office report the witness shown in the
 list of witness at Sl. No. 1 is also not present. The diet money to
 Shri B.C. Sharma has been paid by the plaintiff in cash today. Let the PWs mentioned in the list of witnesses
 dated 12.10.2023, be again summoned for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial) on taking fresh steps within
 fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 13.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Ranbir Singh, Advocate vice Mr. Dhananjay
 Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Mr. Rajesh Kumar, Advocate, for the defendant. Let the case be listed on 01.03.2024 for evidence
 of the plaintiff/authorized person of the plaintiff/Board. Steps
 for summoning the plaintiff/authorized representative of the
 plaintiff be taken within fifteen days. Rest of the plaintiff
 witnesses will be summoned subsequently after the examination
 of the plaintiff/authorized representative of the Board. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 28 of 2014 13.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Nishi Goel, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 defendants. As per office report, two witnesses mentioned in
 the list of witnesses of the defendants are duly served. Shri
 Ashwini Kumar, Patwari, Patwar Circle Bhangrotu, Tehsil Balh,
 District Mandi, H.P., and Shri Thakur Dass, Patwari, Patwar
 Circle Bagla, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi, H.P. are present. Learned Deputy Advocate General has submitted
 that these witnesses have not brought any record for adducing
 their evidence. However, the perusal of the list of the witnesses
 as well as PF filed on behalf of the defendants depicts that no
 documents have been mentioned, which are required to be
 brought/proved by these witnesses. Learned Deputy Advocate General seeks for
 adjournment today in order to verify what evidence is to be led
 by the State by examining these witnesses. Accordingly, on the request of learned Deputy
 Advocate General the matter is adjourned for today. The
 witnesses present today are discharged. Let fresh steps be taken
 within fifteen days. Thereafter the process be issued for the
 service of the witnesses of the defendants again for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th December, 2023
 (Pritam) CWP No. 2569 of 2022 13.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Hemant Kumar Thakur, Advocate, for the
 petitioner. Mr. Vikas Rajput, Advocate, for the respondents. In compliance to the order dated 06.12.2023, the
 electronic device i.e., one Pen Drive was taken out from the
 envelop, marked as Annexure-P-3 in the presence of learned
 counsel for the parties. The video clippings of driving test of the
 person having Roll No. 30527, was viewed in the presence of
 learned counsel for the parties. As per the Video Clipping taken
 from CAM 2, the driver having Roll No. 30527, who was
 driving the vehicle at 11:11:29 hours has appeared to touch the
 front wheal with white line and at 11:12:05 hours as well as
 11:12:21 to 11.12.23 hours, the rear wheel of the vehicle has
 also appeared to have been touched with the white line. Accordingly, in compliance to the orders of the
 Hon'ble Court, report is submitted. After viewing the clipping
 the Electronic Device i.e. Pen Drive is put inside the same
 envelop marked as Annexure P-3. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th December, 2023
 (Pritam)

Note: Court Master is requested to apprise the above said report
to the Hon'ble Court at the time of hearing of the matter. Statement of Shri Yashwant Singh Chauhan,
 Private Secretary, High Court of Himachal
 Pradesh, Shimla-171 001. Stated that in the year 2019, I was posted as
Private Secretary with Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal
Dua. At that time, Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua,
used to sit in Division Bench with Hon'ble Mr. Justice
Dharam Chand Chaudhary, J. (Retd.). On 30.10.2019, the
judgment in CWP No. 2521 of 2019 was dictated to me by
Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, and was typed by
me. After typing the same, I handed over the draft of the
judgment as well as the case file to the Hon'ble Judge
through Secretary (Shri Gopal Kaushal) to the Hon'ble
Judge. However, I had not retained any record in this case,
since the case has been dictated on the same day by the
Hon'ble Judge. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

13th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Submitted that in compliance of order dated
04.12.2023, of Worthy Registrar General, Shri Yashwant
Singh Chauhan, Private Secretary of this Registry, who has
typed the judgment dictated by Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna
Rewal Dua, J., recorded his statement today i.e. 13.12.2023.
Accordingly, the matter is submitted after recording the
statement, which is placed on the file. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 13.12.2023

Worthy Registrar General Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 DW-5 Statement of Shri Mast Ram S/o Shri Sita
 Ram aged about 63 years, presently working as
 Company Secretary in Practice, H. No. 3443/2,
 Sector-45-D, Chandigarh. On Oath
 14.12.2023
 Stated that I am practicing as Company
Secretary since 1997 in the name and style of
MRCHECHI and Associates, Company Secretary. Shri
Parveen Kumar, present Director of the Company of M/s
Radiant Cement Company came in my contact in the year
2009, when he was introduced to me by Mr. Vijay Singla,
the then Director of M/s Radiant Cement Company. I was
consultant of the Radiant Cement Company when Shri
Vijay Singla was Director of the said company. When the
company was taken over by Shri Parveen Kumar and
others I handed over the certified copy of minutes of the
meeting dated 05.06.2009, 06.06.2009 and 12.06.2009.
On the certified copies of the minutes of the meeting I
appended my signature before handing over the same to
Shri Parveen Kumar. The copies of the above said
minutes of the meeting are Ex.DW5/A, DW5/B and
DW5/C, respectively. I have certified the above said
minutes of the meeting from the original minutes of the
company. The minutes of the meeting were duly signed
by the then Chairman Shri Vijay Singla, which is in red
circle A of Ex. DW5/A. The minutes of the meeting duly
signed by the Chairman Shri Parveen Kumar is in red
 circle B of Ex. DW5/B and in red circle C of Ex. DW5/C.
I am conversant with the signatures of Shri Vijay Singla
and Shri Parveen Kumar. xxx xxx Mr. Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal,
 Advocate, for defendant No.1. Opportunity given-Nil. xxx xxx Mr. Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior
 Advocate with Mr. Rohit, Advocate for
 plaintiff. It is correct that there is a reference of Vijay
Bhandari in the minutes of the meeting Ex. DW5/A to
DW5/C. Self stated that by virtue of these minutes the
previous acts of the previous management has been
rectified and adopted by the new management. I am not
aware about the transactions entered into the previous
management of the company with Shri Vijay Bhandari,
though in the minutes produced by me today, there is a
reference of Shri Vijay Bhandari and some transactions
between Vijay Bhandari and the previous management. It
is correct that the responsibility of that transaction was
taken by the new management. Self stated that the
minutes of the meeting are prepared by the company and I
have only certified the minutes of the meeting being
consultant of the company. It is correct that I use to give
my professional services and expertise to Shri Vijay
Singla the then Director of the company. As of date I am
not working with Shri Vijay Singla.
 R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 Statement of Shri Khem Raj, Advocate,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 14.12.2023
 Stated that I give up Managing Director of M/s
Radiant Cement Company, mentioned at Serial No.1, in
the list witnesses because the documents sought to be
proved by this witness has already been exhibited and
proved not opposed by the opposing counsel.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 14.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Rohit, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Mr. Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate, for
 defendant No.1. Mr. Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Khem Raj, Advocate, for defendant No.2. Statement of Shri Mast Ram, is recorded as DW-5
 today. The remaining witnesses on behalf of defendant No.2, be
 produced on the next date of hearing on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for DWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 80 of 2022 14.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 petitioner. Ms. Kritika Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent. As per office report, Bank Guarantee for release of
 50% amount deposited in the Registry has been filed on behalf
 of the applicant/respondent on 23.09.2023, and verification letter
 of the Bank Guarantee No. 87000ILG000823, amounting to
 Rs.59,72,000/-, has been received from Punjab National Bank,
 Bachat Bhawan, Hamirpur, District Hamirpur, H.P.

 As per the confirmation letter dated 23.11.2023,
 the Bank Guarantee amounting to Rs.59,72,000/- has been
 issued on 22.09.2023 and the same is valid till 21.09.2024 and
 the claim validity period is 21.10.2024. In pursuance of the
 confirmation letter received from the Punjab National Bank,
 Bachat Bhawan, Hamirpur, District Hamirpur, H.P., the above
 said Bank Guarantee filed by the applicant/respondent is
 accepted. Let the matter be further processed in compliance
 of the order of Hon'ble Court dated 15.09.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 967 of 2023 in RSA No. RSAST No. 21332 of 2023
15.12.2023
Present: - None for the applicant. Mr. Daleep Chand, Advocate, vice counsel
 for the respondents. . As per the office report, rejoinder to the reply to
CMP (M) No. 967 of 2023, is still awaited and steps i.e. PF,
Road and Diet Money and List of Witnesses have not been
filed by the applicant yet. Let the steps be taken by the applicant within fifteen
days, thereafter, the process be issued for the service of the
witnesses (AWs) for the date to be fixed by the
Additional Registrar (Judicial. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Statement of Shri Gopal Kaushal, Secretary,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla-171 001. Stated that I am working as Secretary with
Hon'ble Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, J., since 201. I do
not remember about this particular case nor I am aware that
any record pertaining to this case was handed over to me.
The draft judgment might have been given to me by Shri
Yashwant Singh, Private Secretary to me which might have
been handed over by me to the Hon'ble Judge as per the
general practice. Further, no record pertaining to this case
nor of any case is/was being handed over to the Secretary
by the Private Secretaries/ Judgment Writers/
Stenographers, when the draft judgment is handed over to
the Secretary

RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
AW-1 Statement of Shri Bhup Singh S/o Shri
 Chimna Ram aged about 66 R/o of Village
 House No. 352 of 11, Muhalla Thanera (Tarna,
 Tehsil and District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 18.12.2023
 Stated that I am residing in the above stated
address since last 40 years. However, I have purchased the
land on which I have built the house have been purchased
by me in the year 1989 from Shri Janku Ram. At the time
of purchasing the land Shri Janku Ram informed me that
the path to my land leads from the Govt. land having
Khasra No. 1570, which is in front of my land. I came to
know about the decision of the Civil Suit No. 42 of 2007,
filed by Shri Janku against the State of Himachal Pradesh
in February 2019. When the LRs of the Janku started to
restrain the path which leads to my house. The said path
also leads to other part of the Mohalla where 15.20 houses
are situated. When the LRs of Janku started to restrain the
above said path then I inquired from them about the cause
of restraining the path then they informed that the land in
dispute is owned by them and we do not have any right on
that land. Thereafter, I approach the revenue and other
authorities for restraining the LRs of Janku but nothing
had happened. Thereafter, I inquired about the litigation
as well as how the LRs of Janku have become the owner
of the Govt. land from where our path leads to our houses.
 On 18.03.2019, I came to Shimla and consulted my
Advocate at Shimla, who advised us to obtain the certified
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
copies of the Lower Courts. On 18.04.2019 I again
visited our Advocate at Shimla and handed over the
certified copies of the judgments of the Lower Courts.
Thereafter, we again came to Shimla on 22.04.2019, on
which date we signed the appeal and accompanied
applications. Thereafter, the present appeal was filed by
our Advocate on 23.04.2019. Even in the year 2016, the
Municipal Committee, Mandi, also laid tiles on the path
which leads to our houses and at that time no objection
was raised by any party. Any delay in filing the appeal is
neither intentional nor willful but due to the
aforementioned reason as we were not made party by Shri
Janku in the Civil Suit or the First Appellate Court. xxx xxx Mr. H.S. Rana Advocate, for non-
 applicant-respondent. There is no reference in the sale deed of my
land, however, the seller (Janku) had verbally told me
about the path which leads to our houses from Govt. land.
I was not aware in the year 2016 that LRs of the Janku had
become the owner of the said land. There is no other path,
which leads to our houses except the present one. It is
incorrect that other path also leads to our house from other
directions. It is incorrect that I was well aware about the
civil litigation between Janku and the State of Himachal
Pradesh since 2007. It is incorrect that I was also aware
 about the judgments of both the Lower Courts. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false and just to harass the
non-applicant-respondent I have filed the present appeal. CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
It is incorrect that I do not have any right title or interest
on the said land. It is incorrect that there exists no path on
the said land. xxx xxx Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy Advocate
 General, for non-applicant/ respondents No.
 2 and 3. Opportunity given-Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
AW-2 Statement of Shri Bansi Lal S/o Late Shri Nek
 Ram R/o of 228 of 2011 Tarna Road, Muhalla
 Thanera District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 18.12.2023
 Stated that I remained Councilor (Parshd) of
Municipal Committee, Mandi in the year 2016. The
parties to the present lis are well known to me since both
are resident of my ward. I know the land in dispute
between the parties and when in the year 2016 the tiles
were laid on the path at Khasra No. 1570, by Municipal
Committee then none of the parties raised any objection
from laying the tiles on the path. I have seen the said path
since my birth and as of date I am 56 years old. I was not
aware about any civil litigation between Janku and the
State of Himachal Pradesh. I came to know about the
ownership of the LRs of Janku in the year 2019, when
they started to remove the tiles and raise their plot on the
disputed land. The photographs Mark A-1 to A-8 are of
the same path which leads to the house of the present
applicant and other residents of the area. xxx xxx Mr. H.S. Rana Advocate, for non-
 applicant-respondent. It is correct that one other Kachha path leads to
the houses of the present applicant from Tarna Mandir
side, which is about two Kms. in length. However, the
present path in dispute is hardly 15 meters in length.
 These days the applicants are coming from the path which
is coming from Tarna Mandir side through private
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
property of one Shri Inder Singh Diwan. I was not aware
about the ownership of the LRs of Janku in the year 2016,
when the Municipal Committee led the tile on the said
path. I do not inquire before laying the tiles about the
ownership of the said land in dispute. It is incorrect that
there is no right or title of the applicants in the disputed
land. It is incorrect that the above said photographs are
not of the same path in dispute. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false under the influence of the present applicant
since they belong to my ward. xxx xxx Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy
 Advocate General, for non-applicant/
 respondents No. 2 and 3. Opportunity given-Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
 Statement of Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate, for the applicants. Without Oath
 18.12.2023
 Stated that I give up AW Shri Bhupender being
repetitive in nature and close the evidence on behalf of the
applicants. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
 Statement of Shri H.S. Rana, Advocate, for the
 non-applicant-respondent No.1. Without Oath
 18.12.2023
 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
on behalf of respondent No.1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
 Statement of Ms. Ranjna Patial, Deputy
 Advocate General for respondents No. 2 and 3. Without Oath
 18.12.2023
 Stated that the State do not want to lead any
evidence on behalf of respondents No. 2 and 3. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M)ST No. 7519 of 2019 in RSA
18.12.2023
Present: - Mr. Bimal Gupta, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Mr. H.S. Rana, Advocate, for respondent
 No.1. Ms. Ranjna Patiyal, Deputy Advocate
 General, for respondents No. 2 and 3.
 . Statements of Shri Bhup Singh and Shri Bansi Lal
are recorded as AW-1 and Aw2, respectively. Learned counsel
for the applicant has closed the evidence on behalf of the
applicant vide her separate statement. Learned counsel for the
respondents vide their separate statement has stated that they do
not want to lead any evidence in defense. Since the evidence on behalf of the parties is
complete, let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 19.12.2023
Present: - Ms. Ritu Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Shailja Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr. Neel
 Kamal Sharma, Advocate, for the defendant. As per office report, steps for summoning the
plaintiff witnesses have not been taken till date. Two
opportunities have already been granted to the plaintiff for
taking steps for PWs but no steps have been taken till date. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 19th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 120 of 2019 19.12.2023
Present: - Mr. Suneet Goel, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 1,2 and 7. Mr. Anil Kashyap, Advocate, vice counsel for
 defendant No.3. Mr. Kuldeep, Advocate, vice counsel for
 defendant No.4. Mr. Anshul Gandhi, Advocate, vice counsel for
 defendants No. 5 and 6. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
the plaintiff is not present today as he has gone to Uttrakhand due
to his professional engagements. However, he will produce the
plaintiff for his examination on 26.12.2023, on self responsibility.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits that as per the
list of witnesses already submitted the other witnesses are
required to be summoned and it is not possible for the plaintiff to
bring them for adducing their evidence on self responsibility.
Steps for summoning the witnesses have already been taken for
other witnesses. Since as per the direction of the Hon'ble Court, the
PWs are required to be examined on day-to-day basis but for
summoning of the witnesses some time is required. Learned
counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that he will move an
appropriate application for doing the needful. Firstly, let the case
be listed for recording statement of the plaintiff on 26.12.2023. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th December, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 19.12.2023
Present: - Mr. Vikas Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Sumit Sood, Advocate, for the defendants. Shri Sanjay Kumar Plaintiff No.1, is present today.
Learned counsel for the defendants seeks adjournment for today
since he wants to confront certain documents which are not
available with him today and he has to consult his client for that
purpose. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has objected the
request of adjournment on behalf of the defendants. Learned
counsel for the defendants has submitted that he will compensate
and pay the expenses to the tune of Rs.5000/- to plaintiff No.1,
who has come to the Court today, on the next date of hearing. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today. Let
the case be listed before the Additional Registrar (Judicial) for
fixing the next date of hearing. It is made clear that no
adjournment shall be given on the next date of hearing. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 1244 of 2022 in RSA No. 18567 of 2022
26.12.2023
Present: - Ms. Urvashi Rajta, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Mr. Bharat Thakur and Mr. Harsh Kalta,
 Advocates for the respondents No. 1,2 and
 4 to 6. Name of non-applicant No.3 stands already
 deleted from the array of parties.
 Non-applicant No.7 already ex-parte.
 . Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks one
more opportunity for producing the applicant witnesses on
self responsibility. Two opportunities have already been
granted to the applicant for doing the needful but no witness
has been produced by the applicant. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th November, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA 46 of 2017
 26.11.2023
 Present: Shri Manjeet Singh, Advocate vice Shri G.R.
 Palsra, Advocate, for the applicants.
 Shri O.P. Chauhan and Ms. Shikha Chauhan,
 Advocates, for the respondents. Learned vice counsel for the applicants seeks
 one more opportunity for producing the AWs. The perusal
 of the case file shows that nine opportunities have already
 been granted for taking the steps for AWs or for producing
 the AWs on self responsibility. As per the learned vice
 counsel for the applicants no witness is present today. Since nine opportunities have already been
 granted for AWs, therefore, let the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th December, 2023
 (Pritam)

Note: Court Master is requested to apprise the above said order
to the Hon'ble Court at the time of hearing of the matter. 26.12.2023
Present: - Mr. Suneet Goel, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for
 defendants 1, 2 and 7. Mr. Aman Sood, Advocate, for defendant
 No.3. None for defendant No.4. Mr. C.N. Singh, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 5 and 6. Plaintiff Shri Rohit Sood is present today.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff and defendants No. 1, 2 and 7
have jointly submitted that there are chances of amicable
settlement and negotiation between the parties are going on.
Learned counsel further submits that no fruitful purpose will be
served by examining the witnesses at this stage since there are
positive signs of amicable settlement between the parties.
Learned counsel has submitted that the matter may be again
listed before the Hon'ble Court so that the appropriate orders
may be passed by the Hon'ble Court keeping in view the
ongoing negotiation between the parties. On the joint request of the learned counsels let the
matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court at the earliest for
appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 179 of 2020
 27.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 appellant. Ms. Rekha Bansal, Advocate, vice Mr. K.B.
 Khajuria, Advocate for the respondents. As per the order of Hon'ble Court dated
 20.12.2023, the serving officer was directed to appear
 before the undersigned today i.e. on 27.12.2023, to get
 his statement recorded in respect of proclamation
 proceedings conducted by him. The statement of the
 serving officer namely HC Subhash Chander 842, Police
 Station Urban Estate Rohtak is recorded. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 179 of 2020

 Statement of HC Subhash Chander 842, Police
 Station Urban Estate, Rohtak, Haryana
 On Oath
 27.12.2023
 Stated that on 07.11.2023, the MHC, Police
Post Urban Estate Rohtak, Haryana, handed over me
proclamation notice for affixing the same at some
conspicuous place of Village Bohar, Ward No.9,
Nagar Nigam Bohar Rohtak, near Old State Bank,
District Rohtak, Haryana, in which Jai Pal used to
reside. In compliance to that I affixed the copy of
proclamation notice outside house of the Jai Pal in the
presence of parents of Jai Pal I also clicked the
photographs to that effect which has been annexed
with my report. On the same day, i.e. on 07.11.2023,
the second copy of proclamation notice was affixed at
outside the residence of Councilor Municipal
Committee, Bohar, District Rohtak in the presence of
Councillor Jai Bhagwan. The proclamation notice
was read over to the general public present there at
that time while affixing the proclamation notice
outside the house of the accused (Jai Pal) as well as
Councillor Jai Bhagwan. I also obtained the details
regarding immovable property of the accused (Jai Pal)
from Municipal Corporation Rohtak and the Bank
 details of the accused from SBI Bohar. I also obtained
the details regarding ownership of any motor vehicle
 Criminal Appeal No. 179 of 2020

of accused Jai Pal from RAMV Rohtak but as per the
above said authorities nothing was found in the
ownership of Jai Pal. The copies of the report taken
from the above said authorities are annexed with my
report. I could not obtain the signature of any of the
witnesses while affixing the proclamation as nobody
come forward to become the witness. On the same
day i.e. 07.11.2023, I also affix the copy of the
proclamation notice on the Notice Board of Police
Station Urban Estate Rohtak. Thereafter, I submitted
my report to MHC Police Station Urban Estate
Rohtak, Haryana. R.O. & A.C.

 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023in RSA No. 196 of 2021
AW-1 Statement of Shri Manohar Lal S/o Shri Piar
 Chand aged 62 years R/o Tehsil Baijnath,
 District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.12.2023
 Stated that I have studied upto 5th standard.
The land in dispute is adjacent to Shiv Mandi Baijnath. I
do not remember the Khasra and Khatauni numbers of the
land in dispute. Self stated that I have given all the
revenue papers pertaining to the land in dispute to my
Advocate. The respondent-State had filed eviction
proceedings against me. I had filed a Civil Suit in Baijnath
Court in the year 2012. The Civil Court Baijnath partly
decreed my suit. Thereafter, State filed an appeal before
the appellate Court and the appellate Court set aside the
judgment of the trial Court. Thereafter, I filed the present
appeal before the Hon'ble High Court. The Hon'ble High
Court vide order dated 11.11.2021, directed the parties to
maintain status quo. My counsel send me the copy of the
said order which was produced by me before the Mandir
Committee Shiv Temple Baijnath, District Kangra, H.P.
But they did not pay any heed to the orders passed by the
Hon'ble Court. Thereafter, I again contacted my
Advocate at Shimla and my Advocate sent a notice to
District Collector and Mandi Committee, Shiv Temple
Baijnath to take remedial measures otherwise I will have
to take the recourse under Order 39 Rule 2 A CPC . The
 copy of the Legal Notice is Ex. AW1/A, which has been
issued by my counsel on my instruction. Inspite of the
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023in RSA No. 196 of 2021

Legal Notice the respondents did not stop and use to
conduct Langar, Mela by putting tents and by raising
temporary structures on the disputed land. I also informed
about the illegal activities of the respondents to the police
authority by making a written complaint Ex. AW1/B. I
also clicked the photographs Mark A to H and Mark J to L
of the Langar and Mela being conducted by the
respondents on the disputed land after the stay order
granted by the Hon'ble High Court. While conducting
the Mela on the disputed land use to collect the money
from the people. The respondents also charge Rs.2600/-
on 15.01.2023 by issuing the slip to me, which is Mark M.
I also made a written complaint to the Deputy
Commissioner/ Collector Ex. AW1/C but nothing has
been done by the authorities. The respondents have
intentionally and willfully disobeyed the orders of the
Hon'ble Court. xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate
 General for the respondents-State. My year of birth is 1962. The land in dispute
was allotted to my forefathers. I do not know the year of
allotment of the land in dispute to my forefather. I do not
know the Khasra Numbers of the land which was allotted
to my forefather. I do not know the Khasra number of the
land which was allotted to my forefather was 100/2. I do
 not know that the Khasra numbers of the land which is in
the ownership of the State of Himachal Pradesh is 100/1.
I do not know the land adjacent to the Shiv Mandir is
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023in RSA No. 196 of 2021

having very high market value. I do not know that Khasra
number 100/1 was earlier in the name of Gram Panchayat
and vide Mutation Number 29 dated 16.02.1977 and vide
Mutation Number 108, dated 28.05.1981, the same was
entered in the name of State of Himachal Pradesh. It is
correct that the eviction proceeding was initiated against
me by the State and the decision was passed by the
Collector by partly allowing the eviction proceedings. It
is incorrect that I have constructed a juice corner on the
land in dispute after the stay order passed by the Hon'ble
High Court. Self stated that I have a moveable juice
corner on a cart. It is incorrect that the above said
photographs placed on the record are not of the land in
dispute. It is incorrect that the respondents are hosting
Mela on their own Khasra number. It is incorrect that the
Shiv Mandir Temple Committee has charged me for user
charges for installing the shop in the State land during
Mela time. Self stated that I use to install my shop in my
own land. It is incorrect that the State has not raised any
temporary sheds on the land in dispute. It is incorrect that
no violation has been done by the respondents. It is
incorrect that the respondents have not violated the orders
of the Hon'ble Court. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023in RSA No. 196 of 2021
AW-2 Statement of ASI Dharam Chand, aged 56
 years presented posted at Police Station
 Baijnath, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.12.2023
 Stated that I received a complaint Ex. AW1/B
from the applicant Manohar Lal. I entered the Rapat No.
41, dated 06.02.2023 on the complaint filed by the
applicant. During investigation it was found that the
Civil litigation between Manohar Lal and the State of
Himachal Pradesh was already pending adjudication in
the Court, therefore, I did not conduct any further
investigation. xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate
 General for the respondents-State. Opportunity given-nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021
AW-3 Statement of Shri Devi Chand, aged 49 years
 presently posted as Sub Divisional Magistrate,
 Baijnath, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh
 On Oath
 27.12.2023
 Stated that I am posted as Sub Divisional
Magistrate Baijnath, District Kangra, H.P., from
03.03.2023. I am aware that the contempt proceedings
have been initiated by the applicant in the Hon'ble High
Court. As per our record the applicant had issued the
legal notice dated Ex. AW1/A. I am Assistant
Commissioner, Mandir Committee Shiv Temple Baijnath,
District Kangra. I am conversant with the land adjacent to
Shiv Mandi Baijnath. I was aware about the status quo
order dated 11.11.2021, passed by the Hon'ble High
Court. After the passing of the status quo order Shiv
Mandi Committee or the State conducted any Mela on the
land in dispute. Self stated that inspite of the stay order of
the Hon'ble High Court that the applicant himself has
constructed a Shed on the land in dispute and is running a
juice bar on the said land. There are two Khasra numbers
in land in dispute which are 1988/100/1 and 1988/100/2.
At present the applicant is in possession of both the
Khasra numbers and the above said Khasra numbers are in
the ownership of the State Government. The Mark M is a
donation slip to the temple trust. I am not aware that
Manohar Lal (applicant) has also donated an amount of
 Rs.2600/- in favour of Shiv Temple Trust. I do not know
that the photographs Mark A to H and Mark J to Mark L
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021

of the land in dispute. Since the stay order had already
been granted by the Hon'ble Court, therefore, the
respondents have not done anything on the land in dispute,
hence, after the receipt of the legal notice, no action was
required to be taken by the respondents. xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate
 General for the respondents-State. There is no violation of the stay order by the
respondents after the passing of the status quo order by the
Hon'ble High Court. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023in RSA No. 196 of 2021
AW-3 Statement of Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate for
 the applicant. Without Oath
 27.12.2023
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant since the list of witness has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th December, 2023
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021
 27.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Athrav Sharma, Advocate, vice Ms. Aanandita
 Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant/appellant.
 Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 respondents. Statement of Shri Manohar Lal, ASI Dharam
 Chand and Shri Devi Chand are recorded as AW1 to
 AW3, respectively. Learned counsel for the applicant
 vide his separate statement has closed the evidence on
 behalf of the applicant. Learned counsel for the respondents seeks
 time for RWs. Let the steps, if any, be taken within
 fifteen days, thereafter the process be issued for the
 service of RWs for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th December, 2023
 (Pritam) RSA No. 195 of 2021 28.12.2023
 Present: Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice counsel for the
 appellants. Mr. Athrav Sharma, Advocate for respondents No.
 1 to 3. Mr. Ashwani Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent No.8. As per the office report, PF and list of witnesses
 have been filed by the applicant, however, road and diet
 money has not been deposited till date due to which the
 summons could not be issued to the witnesses. Learned vice counsel for the appellants/applicants
 seeks some more time for depositing the road and diet
 money. Let the road and diet money be deposited within
 three days thereafter, the process be issued for the
 service of AWs for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th December, 2023
 (Pritam) COMS No. 8 of 2018 29.12.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Sr. Advocate with Mr.
 Dhananjay, Advocate for the plaintiff

 None for the defendants No.1 and 3. The perusal of the case file shows that the list of
 witnesses has not been filed till date by the plaintiff. The
 learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that she
 has been recently engaged by the plaintiff and will file
 the list of witnesses within a period of seven days and
 produce the plaintiffs' witnesses on self responsibility.
 The learned counsel seeks for more time for PWs. In view of the above submission for the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff, let the case be listed before
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for the fixing the date of
 PWs

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th December, 2023
 (Gaurav) CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 02.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Goldy Dhiman, Advocate, for the applicant. None for the defendants No.1 and 3. None for the respondent. As per the office report, steps for summoning the
 applicant witnesses have not been taken. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that due
 to health issue, the applicant is not able to come to
 Shimla in winter season and prayed that the matter be
 listed after 15th March, 2024. The perusal of case file shows that three
 opportunities have already been granted for taking steps
 by the applicant but till date steps have not been taken
 for AWs. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Submitted that a telephonic message has
 been received from Hon'ble Mr. Justice Mansoor Ahmed
 Mir, Former Chief Justice of this High Court to reserve
 two rooms at Himachal Sadan, Delhi for the stay of his
 son-in-law/daughter on and w.e.f. 07.01.2024 to
 14.01.2024. It has been further directed that in case of
 non-availability of the rooms at Himachal Sadan Delhi,
 the reservation/booking be got done at Himachal
 Bhawan, Delhi for the aforesaid dates. This is for your kind information and
 necessary action at your end. You are further requested
 that after doing the needful information be given to the
 undersigned so that His Lordship may be informed
 accordingly. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 02.01.2024

Ld. Registrar (Protocol) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 PW-4 Statement of Shri Raju, S/o Shri Vikram Jeet
 aged 32 years presently posted as Deputy
 Manager, Punjab National Bank, Lift Road, the
 Mall, Shimla. On Oath
 02.01.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Deputy Manager,
Punjab National Bank, Lift Road, Shimla from May 2022.
In the year 2019, Shri Prem Banga was Chief Manager of
the Punjab National Bank, Lift Road, Shimla and now he
has been retired. I have been duly authorized by the Bank
to make the statement in the present case. As per our
record, the certificate dated 04.07.2013, Ex. PW4/A, has
been issued by the Bank. I have been duly authorized vide
letter dated 02.01.2024, Ex. PW4/B by the Senior
Manager, Punjab National Bank to make the statement in
the present case. xxx xxx Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for
 the defendant. It is correct that generally all the certificate
issued by the Bank are on the letterhead of the Bank. I
am identify signatures in red circle A on Ex. PW4/A, and
the same is of Shri Prem Banga. I have never worked with
Shri Prem Banga as he had retired before my joining in
the present Branch. It is correct that Ex. PW4/A has not
been issued on the original letterhead of the Bank. Self
stated that Bank generally issued such type of certificate in
printout mode from the computer and affix the stamp on
 the printout generated document. It is correct that prior to
the year 2013 in case some RTGS is made from the
account of some person then the same is reflected in his
statement of accounts. I do not know on whose request
the certificate Ex. PW4/A was issued by the Bank.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

2nd January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 PW-5 Statement of Shri Ajay Kumar, S/o Shri Milap
 Chand, aged 35 years presently posted as
 Manager, UCO Bank, Shimla Main, Karol
 House, Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 02.01.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Manager, UCO
Bank, Shimla Main from June 2022. I have been duly
authorized vide letter dated 01.01.2024, Ex. PW5/A by the
Chief Manager UCO Bank to make the statement in the
present case. As per our record, certificate dated
03.07.2013 Ex. PW5/B, (objected to on the mode of proof)
has been issued from our Bank. xxx xxx Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for
 the defendant. It is correct that I cannot identify signature in
red circle A on Ex. PW5/B. However, the there is seal of
the Bank on the said document. It is correct that generally
the certificate are being issued on the letterhead of the
Bank. I cannot say the letterhead was prevalent in the year
2013 on which the certificate Ex. PW5/B has been issued.
It is correct that prior to the year 2013 in case some
RTGS is made from the account of some person then the
same is reflected in his statement of accounts. I do not
know on whose request the certificate Ex. PW5/B was
issued by the Bank. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 2nd January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 PW-5 Statement of Shri Dev Raj, Advocate, High
 Court of Himachal Pradesh. Without Oath
 02.01.2024
 Stated that the plaintiff has examined Shri
Prem Banga, Chief Manager, Punjab National Bank as
PW3 and on that date he was deferred since he had not
brought the original record. Now, the said witness has
been retired and in lieu of that today Shri Raju, Deputy
Bank Manager, has been examined as PW4, therefore, I
give up PW3 being unnecessary and repetitive in nature. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

2nd January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 02.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Ashwani Pathak, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Dev Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. Statement of Shri Raju, Deputy Manager, Punjab
 National Bank, Shimla and Shri Ajay Kumar, Manager,
 UCO Bank, Shimla Main, are recorded as PW4 and
 PW5, respectively. Shri Ajay Kumar, Manager UCO Bank has
 filed reply to the notice under Order 16 Rule 12 CPC .
 The explanation given by him seems to be plausible,
 hence the notice issued under Order 16 Rule 12 CPC to
 Shri Ajay Kumar is dropped. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date of PWs and
 witness mentioned at Serial Number 3, 6 and 7 in the list
 of witnesses be summoned for the said date. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 128 of 2022 03.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Sunil Kumar, Advocate, vice Mr. N.K. Bhalla,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Parikshit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 no witness is present today. However, learned counsel
 for the defendant has submitted that he has filed an
 application for setting aside the ex-parte order of the
 defendant today itself. Since the application for setting aside the ex-parte
 order has been filed by the defendant, therefore, it would
 be appropriate that the application be decided at the first
 instance before the ex-parte evidence is recorded. Accordingly, let the said application be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 127 of 2022 03.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Sunil Kumar, Advocate, vice Mr. N.K. Bhalla,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Parikshit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 no witness is present today. However, learned counsel
 for the defendant has submitted that he has filed an
 application for setting aside the ex-parte order of the
 defendant today itself. Since the application for setting aside the ex-parte
 order has been filed by the defendant, therefore, it would
 be appropriate that the application be decided first
 instance before the ex-parte evidence is recorded. Accordingly, let the said application be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd January, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 924 of 2022 04.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Pranav Kumar Kaushal, Advocate, for the
 applicants. None for the respondent. As per office report, the applicants witnesses are to
 be produced on self responsibility, however, learned
 counsel for the applicants has submitted that he has
 informed his client through whatsapp message and
 telephonically but he has not responded to the message
 or to the telephonic call. Learned counsel further
 submits that his client is not in contact with him as he is
 not responding to their calls due to which no witness is
 present today. Four opportunities for AWs have already been
 granted. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Submitted that in continuation of earlier
 intimation dated 02.01.2024, a telephonic message has
 been received from Hon'ble Mr. Justice Mansoor Ahmed
 Mir, Former Chief Justice of this High Court to reserve
 two rooms at Himachal Sadan, Delhi for the stay of his
 son-in-law/daughter on and w.e.f. 06.01.2024 to
 12.01.2024 instead of 07.01.2024 to 14.01.2024. It has
 been further directed that in case of non-availability of
 the rooms at Himachal Sadan Delhi, the
 reservation/booking be got done at Himachal Bhawan,
 Delhi for the aforesaid dates (i.e. 06.01.2024 to
 12.01.2024). This is for your kind information and
 necessary action at your end. You are further requested
 that after doing the needful information be given to the
 undersigned so that His Lordship may be informed
 accordingly. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 04.01.2024

Ld. Registrar (Protocol)
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016
RW-1 Statement of Shri Lekh Raj, S/o Late Shri
 Ranjha Ram, aged 66 years Village and Post
 Office Ludret, Tehsil Dehra, District Kangra,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 04.01.2024
 Stated that I have come to the Court today
because I have received summon to appear as a witness. I
know the appellant Subhash Chand as we reside in same
village. Subahash Chand has made construction of toilet.
Subhash Chand is constructing the toilet in his own land
bearing Khasra No.42. The disputed land is a different
land and Subhash Chand is constructing toilet on his own
land. xxx xxx Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 the respondents-applicants. Subhash Chand is my nephew. There is no
dispute of mine with respondent (Suram Chand alia Suram
Singh). It is correct that I stood surety to appellant
Subhash Chand in Police Challan 126-II/2011 in Case No.
706/2013, which was decided by JMFC Jawali, District
Kangra on 13.10.2011. It is correct that the said criminal
case was initiated against Shri Subhash Chand at the
instance of respondent No.1 (Suram Chand). I have seen
the land in dispute. I am not aware about the Khasra
numbers of the land in dispute. I have seen Khasra
Number 42 in the revenue record on which Subhash
Chand had raised toilet. I am not aware that Subhash
Chand or any other party had got demarcated the land
 before raising the toilet on the said land by Subhash
Chand. I am aware that the Court has restrained both the
parties to the lis by granting the stay order. I am not
aware that the respondents had made a complaint in the
Panchayat when Subhash Chand started to raise
construction. It is correct that the photographs Mark F1 to
F6 and G1 to G3, are of the disputed land where the
construction was being raised by Subhash Chand. I am
not aware that Shri Suram Chand had filed a complaint
before the police and revenue authorities against Subhash
Chand. I am not aware on the basis of the said complaint
the police and the revenue authorities visited the spot for
carrying out investigation. I am not aware that the police
and the revenue officers visited the spot twice. I am not
aware that after filing the contempt proceedings in the
High Court, the revenue authority visited the spot and
demarcated the land in dispute. It is incorrect that at the
time of demarcation I was present on the spot. It is
incorrect that I have strained relation with Suram Chand
since I stood surety to Subhash Chand. It is correct that I
have come to Shimla today with Subhash Chand. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false today because I am
related to Subhash Chand. It is incorrect that Subhash
Chand has disobeyed the stay order passed by the Hon'ble
High Court. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 4th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016
RW-2 Statement of Shri Hans Raj, S/o Shri Dharam
 Chand, aged 49 years Village and Post Office
 Ludret, Tehsil Dehra, District Kangra,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 04.01.2024
 Stated that I have come to the Court today
because I have received summon to appear as a witness. I
know the parties to the lis since they belong to our village.
I am aware about the land dispute between the parties.
Subhash Chand had raised the construction at Khasra No.
42, which is not a land of dispute. My land is adjacent to
the land in dispute. Subhash Chand has not violated the
order of the Hon'ble Court as he has raised the
construction in his own land. xxx xxx Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 the respondents-applicants. Subhash Chand is my cousin brother. He is son
of my uncle (chacha). The name of the grandfather of my
and Subhash Chand is Taju Ram. I have seen the land in
dispute. Self stated that the same is situated besides my
land. Subhash Chand had constructed toilet and
bathroom and also constructed septic tank. I have seen the
construction raised by Subhash Chand. Photographs Mark
F1 to F5 pertains to the land where the construction was
being raised by Subhash Chand. I am not able to identify
the land which has been shown in the photographs Mark
G1 to G3. I am aware about the Khasra No. 42 as it is
adjacent to my land and there are pakka points fixed by
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016

the revenue authority. The Khasra Numbers pertaining to
the land in dispute are 43 and 44. I am aware about the
Khasra Numbers since my land is also situated besides
these Khasra Numbers. I have not seen the case file or the
documents pertaining to the case. It is correct that Suram
Singh has filed a Civil Suit against my father and after the
death of my father I was impleaded as one of the
defendant in that suit. It is correct that Ex. A-1 is the
certified copy of the above said Civil Suit No. 86/13/2006.
It is correct that Suram Chand had filed an FIR No. 368 of
2010 against us. Self stated that in that FIR we were
acquitted by the Hon'ble Court. Shri Madan Lal is my
uncle (Chacha). I do not know when Subhash Chand
raised the construction then Suram Chand and others
raised objection and made a complaint to Panchayat and
Police authorities. It is incorrect that during the pendency
of these proceedings the demarcation was being carried
out by the revenue authority. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false today since I have strained relation with
Suram Chand. It is incorrect that Subhash Chand has
disobeyed the stay order passed by the Hon'ble High
Court. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 13640 of 2021 in RSA No. 481 of 2016
 04.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Rahul Thakur, Advocate, vice Mr. Ramakant
 Sharma, Advocate, for the non-applicant-appellant.
 Mr. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the respondent-
 applicant. Statement of Shri Lekh Raj and
 Shri Hans Raj are recorded as RW1 and RW2,
 respectively. Learned counsel for the respondent has
 submitted that he will produce Subhash Chand on self
 responsibility on the next date of hearing. Let PW at Serial No. 4 be summoned for the said
 date. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for RWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 128 of 2012 05.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Nitin Thakur, Advocate vice Mr. Yash
 Wardhan Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff/non-
 counter claimant. Kr. Bhupinder Singh, Advocate for the
 defendant/counter claimant. As per the office report, steps for summoning the
 defendant witness mentioned at Sr. No. 3 in the list of
 witness has not been taken. Learned counsel for the
 defendant has submitted that he will take the steps within
 three days. On taking steps within three days, let the
 summons be issued for the service of witness mentioned
 at Sr. No.3, for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 I have been directed by Hon'ble Ms. Justice
 Jyotsna Rewal Dua, J., that there is some connectivity
 issue of Airtel in her Chambers and she is not able to
 make or receive whatsapp as well as ordinary calls. You are, therefore, requested to looking into
 the matter to resolve the issue, raised by the Hon'ble
 Judge, at earliest, so that no inconvenience is cause to
 the Hon'ble Judge, please. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 08.01.2024
Ld. Registrar (JB) Civil Suit No. 76 of 2015 08.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Sanket Kankhyan, Advocate, vice Mr. Dinesh
 Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Urvashi Rajta, Advocate, vice Mr. Tara Singh
 Chauhan, Advocate, for the defendants No. 1 and 2. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff seeks one
 more opportunity to produce the plaintiff evidence on
 self responsibility. The perusal of case file shows that more than four
 opportunities have already been granted to the plaintiff
 for producing his evidenced but till date no witness has
 been produced for examination of the PWs. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th January, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2014 09.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Vinod Gupta, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. and 2. Mr. Athrav Sharma, Advocate, for defendants No.
 3 to 6. Respondent No.7 already ex-parte. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that
 the plaintiffs are not present today for adducing their
 evidence. He seeks adjournment for today. Let the case be listed for plaintiffs evidence and the
 plaintiffs be produced on self responsibility for the date
 to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th January, 2024
 (Pritam) RFA No. 102 of 2015 09.01.2024
Present: Mr. Digvijay Singh Thakur, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Learned counsel for the applicant has filed
 application for giving the undertaking as well as surety in
 compliance to the order dated 24.11.2023, passed by the
 Hon'ble High Court. Shri Shivender Thakur, had filed an application for
 release of the amount of compensation for his minor
 children, which was allowed by the Hon'ble Court subject
 to furnishing of his undertaking and surety bond that the
 amount, so released, shall be used for the studies of his
 children. However,

 The undertakings have been filed by Shri Shivender
 Thakur in the form of affidavit averring therein that he will
 use the amount for the studies of his children, namely Arya
 Veer Singh and Saisha Thakur. The undertaking so given
 by the applicant is duly supported by the surety bond in the
 form of affidavit furnished by Shri Sunil Kumar brother of
 the deponent, which is duly supported by the Jamabandi for
 the year 2017-2018, issued on 05.01.2024. Shri Shivender
 Thakur, is duly identified by Shri Digvijay Singh Thakur,
 Advocate. Accordingly, the undertaking as well as the surety
 bond furnished by the applicant is duly attested and
 accepted by me. Accordingly, the applications are
 allowed. All the papers be tagged with the file and let the
 needful be done. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

 10.01.2024
 Present: Mr. Dalip Chand Advocate, vice Mr. V.D. Khidtta,
 Advocate for the applicant. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for
 respondents No. 1 to 3. As per office report, steps i.e. list of witnesses, PF,
 road and diet money have not been filed by the applicant as
 of date. Learned vice counsel for the applicant submits that
 he will take the steps within one week. Accordingly, on taking the steps within one week, let
 the process be issued for the service of AWs returnable for
 the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 478 of 2023 in RSA

 10.01.2024
 Present: None for the applicant. Mr. Prashant Chauhan, Advocate for the respondent. As per office report, steps for summoning the AWs
 i.e. list of witnesses, PF, road and diet money have not
 been filed by the applicant as of date. Two opportunities
 have already been granted to the applicant for doing the
 needful. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th January, 2024
 (Pritam) COPC No. 106 of 2018 AW-2 Statement of Smt. Bimla Verma W/o Shri
 Kanhiya Lal Verma, aged 75 years Village
 Banwai, Post Office Chalog, Tehsil and
 District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.01.2024
 Stated that the age of my husband Shri Kanhiya
Lal Verma is about 86 years. My husband is bed ridden as
of date . My husband has executed Special Power of
Attorney Ex. AW2/A in my favour for filing signing the
pleadings as well as for adducing the evidence on his
behalf. Civil litigation was going on between my husband
and Nanak Chand which ultimately came to the High
Court and Shri Nanak Chand has filed a Regular Second
Appeal No. 703 of 2012 in the High Court. In that RSA
compromise decree was passed by the Hon'ble High Court
on 16.10.2016, which is Ex. AW2/B. The said
compromise decree was passed on the basis of terms of
the settlement Ex. AW2/C arrived at between the parties.
After the compromise decree we left 3.5 feet path in
favour of Nanak Chand for their use and raised fencing on
the other part of the land. But Nanak Chand alongwith his
wife, son and daughter-in-law uprooted the fencing raised
by us and threw it in our street (Gali). They also used
filthy language to us and the said incidence had happened
after 15-16 days of the passing of the order by the Hon'ble
High Court. They also use to scatter garbage in the suit
land and had gathered heap of stones on the said land. The
 respondent has also raised a room on the path which was
left by us for their use. The respondents do not allow us to
use the disputed land. The respondents are not adhering to
the terms of settlement as well as the orders of the Court.
Thereafter, my husband served a notice Ex. AW2/D
(objected to on the mode of proof) to Shri Nanak Chand
through his Advocate. But inspite of the notice the
respondents did not stop the interference in the disputed
land. Since the respondents are not adhering to the order
of the Hon'ble Court, therefore, my husband constrained
to file this Contempt Petition in the Hon'ble Court. I have
also clicked the photographs Mark A-1 to A-7 from my
mobile. The respondents are willfully and intentionally
disobeying the order of the Hon'ble Court to harass us. xxx xxx Ms. Seema K. Guleria, Advocate,
 for the respondents. The Khasra No. of the disputed land is 366.
My husband had purchased the land from Bishi Ram. I
am not aware about the other co-owners of the said land.
My husband had purchased the said land in the year 1971
and since then we are owner of the land in dispute. It is
incorrect that Shri Gauri Shankar is also one of the co-
owner of the suit land. My husband has not file any other
case pertaining to the suit land. I am not aware that my
husband has filed a Civil Suit No. 10 of 2023, pertaining
to the suit land involved in this case, which is pending
adjudication before Court No.VIII, Shimla. I have
appeared as a witness in the other case, which is pending
 in Court No. VI, Shimla, on behalf of my husband. Self
stated that the said suit pertains to Khasra No. 302. It is
incorrect that in Civil Suit No. 10 of 2023, we have
claimed possession of the path on the land at Khasra No. 366. It is correct that on the orders of the Hon'ble Court
the demarcation of Khasra No. 366 was conducted on
10.01.2022. It is incorrect that the path on Khasra No. 366
was delivered to Nanak Chand after the demarcation
ordered by the Court. It is incorrect that my husband is
himself contemnor as the said path was never handed over
to the respondents. It is incorrect that the respondents
never interfered on the disputed land or path. Self stated
that the respondents are interfering in the said land. It is
incorrect that photographs Mark A-1 to A-7 are not of the
land in dispute. I have clicked the photographs two
months ago when the respondents started to raise some
construction. It is correct that I have not placed the copy
of the newspaper in the contempt petition. Self stated that
the newspaper is apparent on the photograph. I cannot
give the details of the cases which are filed by my
husband. Shri Nanak Chand belongs to our village. Shri
Nanak Chand is son of maternal aunt (Massi) of my father.
It is incorrect that my husband has filed many cases
against their relatives. It is incorrect that the present
contempt petition filed by my husband is abuse of process
of law just to harass the respondents. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th January, 2024
 (Pritam) COPC No. 106 of 2018 Statement of Smt. Bimla Verma W/o Shri
 Kanhiya Lal Verma, aged 75 years Village
 Banwai, Post Office Chalog, Tehsil and
 District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.01.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine any other
witness and close the evidence on behalf of the applicant. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th January, 2024
 (Pritam) COPC No. 106 of 2018 11.01.2024
 Present: Mr. G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for the petitioner. Ms. Seema K. Guleria, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Statement of Smt. Bimla Verma, is recorded as
 AW2, vide her separate statement she close the evidence
 on behalf of the applicant/petitioner. Learned counsel for the respondents seeks time for
 taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days.
 Thereafter, the process be issued for the service of RWs
 returnable for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th January, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Submitted that the Carpet provided in the
 Chambers of Learned Registrar (Judicial) is too dirty and
 the same is required to be dry-cleaned at the earliest. (Pritam Singh)
 Court Secretary
 12.01.2023
Assistant Registrar (GAD) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 DW-4 Statement of Shri Mandeep Sandhu, S/o Shri
 S.S. Sandhu, aged 65 years, R/o R-5, Greater
 Kailash Part-I, New Delhi-48. On Oath
 27.02.2024
 Stated that defendant No.1, i.e. Bhangoo &
Company is a partnership firm comprises two partners,
namely Futuristic Solutions Limited & Futuristic
Remedies Limited and I am a Director in both these
Companies. Bhangoo & Company was formed in October
2004, and they successfully bid for the auction of suit
property. They were successful bidders held in the
auction on 30.10.2004. Subsequently on 17th of January,
2005, the recovery officer DRT-II, Chandigarh, issued
letter of sale/sale certificate in favour of defendant No.1.
Thereafter, someone from the public appealed against the
said auction and vide order dated 30th March, 2005, the
Presiding Officer of DRT Chandigarh annulled the auction
in favour of defendant No.1. Thereafter, nine existing
partners of Defendant No.1-Firm contacted me and against
monies received by them agreed to transfer the firm i.e.
Defendant No.1 to the above said two companies i.e.
Defendant Nos. 6 and 7. For this purpose on 3rd May,
2005 an admission-cum-retirement deed Ex. DW4/A-1,
was executed and in this four of the existing partners
retired and defendants No. 6 and 7 were included as
partners. Thereafter, on 4th May, 2005, another admission-
cum-retirement deed Mark-1, now Ex. DW4/A-2, was
 executed vide which remaining other five partners also
retired, thus, leaving defendant No.6 and 7, the sole
partners of Bhangoo & Company. Thereafter, Defendant
No.1, approached the DRAT New Delhi against the order
dated 30.03.2005, passed by the DRT, Chandigarh
challenging cancellation of the auction/sale and the DRAT
on 29th November, 2005 set aside the order dated
30.03.2005 and upheld the auction/sale in favour of
defendant No.1 and directed to handover the possession of
the suit property to defendant No.1. Thereafter, defendant
No.1, approached the DIC Baddi, District Solan for the
mutation of the said property in favour of defendant No.1.
Defendant No.1 was informed by DIC Baddi that since the
sale letter dated 17.01.2005, contained the names of nine
partners of defendant No.1, therefore, the mutation in
favour of defendant No.1 with now just two partners i.e.
defendant Nos. 6 and 7 will entail first mutating the
property in favour of those nine partners and then
transferring it to the two partners, which each time entail
extra cost. This process of payment of double fee appeared
bizzared to defendant No.1 and they continued to liase
with the department to transfer the suit property in favour
of defendant No.1 having two partners. Some time in
February 2012, Mr. Gaurav Rajput the authorized
representative of the Plaintiff-Company alongwith a
broker Mr. Manu Sharma contacted me and made an offer
to purchase the suit property. Mr. Gaurav represented that
he was well up with the department as well as the political
 establishment of the State and that he would resolve the
issue of mutation or anything else at his own cost. The
deal made was for Rs.1.5 Crores in addition to the
aforesaid "on as is where is basis". The agreement Ex.
PW3/B in this regard was executed on 11.04.2012. For
this purpose Mr. Gaurav Rajput had paid me Rs.50,000/-
cash earlier as a token money and Rs. 18,00,000/- (Rs.
eighteen lacs) by way of a Cheque favouring defendant
No.7, dated 11.04.2012. The said cheque bounced twice
for want of sufficient funds. I have brought the original
returned cheque alongwith return memo of the Bank. Mr.
Gaurav Rajput on my pursuance subsequently transferred
Rs.18,00,000/- (Rs. Eighteen lacs only) by way of RTGS
on 19.04.2012 from a company called Countryside Agro
Produce Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Gaurav Rajput also transferred
Rs.15,06802/- on 11.04.2012 and Rs. 15,06,803/- on
12.04.2012 (total amounting to Rs. 30,13,605/-) vide two
RTGSs transaction in our company Diana Eurochem Pvt.
Ltd., and he paid a sum of Rs. 1,36,395/- in cash to me.
The total amount paid therefore, comes to Rs.50,00,000/-
(Rs. Fifty lacs). The last date of balance payment and
execution of sale deed after him having completed the
process of mutation was fixed as 10.05.2012. Mr.
Gaurav Rajput, after this got into his act of attempting to
sought out the departmental issues with regard to the suit
property. However, despite his perceived connections did
not get the clearance regarding sanction of mutation from
the concerned department. He too was confronted with
 the payments of large amounts, which probably was not
part of his plan. By now, he had become reasonably
friendly with me and orally sought more time to execute
the documents and also requested if I could check with my
Lawyers or anybody else for the departmental clearances.
He continued to be in touch regarding any development on
this count, but I was unable to get hold of any advice for
him. On 7th February, 2013, Mr. Gaurav Rajput visited
my office at Delhi and discussed this issue thread bare and
finally decided to call off the deal. It was then agreed that
defendant No.1, will refund Rs. 32,00,000/- and Rs.
18,00,000/- will be forfeited in favour of defendant No.1.
An amount of Rs.32,00,000/- was paid to Mr. Gaurav
Rajput in cash vide two receipts amounting to
Rs.30,13,605/- and Rs.1,36,395/-. The copies of receipt
amounting to Rs.1,36,395/- Mark `B' is now Ex.
DW-4/B. I have brought both the original receipts today
in the Court. I had agreed to this settlement as I did not
want any problems later and the fact that Mr. Gaurav
Rajput was agreeable on forfeiture of Rs.18,00,000/-.
After this transaction of refund took place, Mr. Gaurav
Rajput changed his stance and started bringing hoodlums
to our office in New Delhi. A complaint Ex. DW-4/C, in
this regard was also filed with the local police at Delhi by
my staff as on that day I was not present in the office
(original seen and returned). (Objected to on the mode
of proof). In the meanwhile, seeing over a period of time
Mr. Gaurav Rajput was not having funds/influence as
 claimed by him, the defendant No.1, moved an application
for amendment of the sale certificate dated 17.01.2005,
before DRT-I, Chandigarh, incorporating defendants No.
6 and 7 as partners in defendant No.1 in place of above
stated old nine partners. The DRT-I, Chandigarh, vide
order dated 17.12.2012, Ex.DW-1/A, passed the order and
deleted the old partners and issued amended sale
certificate Ex. PW-2/C. In the meanwhile, Plaintiff-
Company filed the Civil Suit against the defendants for
specific performance of the agreement dated 11.04.2012.
During the pendency of the present suit, I came to know
that Mr. Gaurav Rajput has formed so many companies
the names of which are already on record, so much so, that
he has also got Director Identification Number (DIN) in
two different names, namely Gaurav Rajput and Gaurav
Arora to give effect his illegal designs. Even otherwise,
the drafts amouting to Rs. 45,60,019/- (Rs. Forty five lace
sixty thousand and nineteen only) duly issued by Punjab
& Sindh Bank, New Delhi in favour of Moral Holding
Ltd. Mark `C', was not issued in favour of defendant
No.1 and even if this is accounted for did not complete the
balance payable amount of Rs. One crore. Another draft
of Rs.18,00,000/- Mark `D', as claimed was never
delivered to the defendants No. 1, 6 and 7. The plaintiff
has not fulfilled the terms of the agreement and was not
ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement as
the plaintiff was not having sufficient means to pay the
sale consideration and other fees and expenses which were
 to be borne by the plaintiff. The defendants No. 1, 6 and 7
were always ready and willing to perform their part of the
contract/agreement. The plaintiff has filed the present
case against defendant No.1, 6 and 7 without any basis
and in order to harass the defendants. xxx xxx xxx Mr. J.S. Bhogal, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Swati Verma, Advocate,
 for the Plaintiff. I informed the plaintiff about the factum of
defendants No. 6 and 7 being the only partners of
defendant No.1 during the course of negotiation regarding
the sale of the suit property. Self stated that the plaintiff
was made well aware of this fact before execution of the
agreement. Defendants No. 6 and 7 passed resolutions
dated 15.11.2013, authorizing me to appear and act on
their behalf. Self stated that I have brought both the
certified true copies of these resolutions today. It is wrong
to suggest that the companies incorporated under Companies Act cannot be Partners in a Partnership Firm.
Initially I was not given any written information to the
DIC Baddi, regarding none sanctioning of the mutation in
favour of defendant No.1 through defendants No. 6 and 7
being its partners on the ground that there were originally
nine partners in defendant No.1-Firm and I was informed
orally by the department. However, subsequently the DIC
Baddi has raised an amount of more than Rs. Two crores
to be paid for getting the mutation approved. I have
placed on record the said demand by the DIC, which is
 Ex. DW-3/A. Defendant No.1 has not got effect the
mutation till date. Self stated that the matter regarding
sanction of mutation was not perused by defendant No.1
due to the pendency of the present suit. My mobile No. is
98100-19310. It is correct to suggest that on 7th February,
2013, I sent a message to Mr. Gaurav Rajput that "I will
not be there. I'll call you in a while". Self stated that I
was to go somewhere which got cancelled and I was
available in the office when Mr. Gaurav Rajput finally
arrived on that day. It is incorrect that no meeting was
held with Mr. Gaurav Rajput with me as I was not
available in the office on that day i.e. 07.02.2013. It is
incorrect that Mr. Gaurav Rajput never agreed for any
forfeiture of the amount. Defendants No. 1, 6 and 7 use to
maintain Books of Account. I do not remember whether
there is any entry regarding payment of cash amount of
Rs.32,00,000/- in favour of Mr. Gaurav Rajput as on
07.02.2013 in Account Books maintained by defendants
No. 1,6 and 7. Self stated that I have to verify from the
record since the transaction pertains to the year 2013. I
did not apprised my counsel regarding cash refund of
Rs.32,00,000/- which was made on 07.02.2013 at the
time of preparation of written statement. Self stated that I
informed this fact to my counsel at the time of cross
examination of Mr. Gaurav Rajput. I am aware that as of
date there is a limit regarding cash transaction under Income Tax Act . Self stated that however, in the year
2013 I am not sure whether the said embargo was there or
 not. It is wrong to suggest that I had never made any cash
payment of Rs.32,00,000/- to Mr. Gaurav Rajput. It is
incorrect to suggest that the defendants backed out from
the deal as the defendants have to pay more than Rs. Two
crores for the sanctioning of mutation. Self stated that this
payment of Rs. Two crores was to be made by the
plaintiff in terms of the agreement. It is correct that
expect agreement 11.04.2012 Ex. PW-3/B, there is no
other agreement between the parties. It is incorrect that
Mr. Gaurav Rajput or any other person on behalf of the
plaintiff agreed to get the mutation sanctioned in favour of
defendant No.1. It is incorrect that Mr. Gaurav Rajput or
any other person on behalf of the plaintiff agreed to pay
any amount for the sanction of mutation in favour of
defendant No.1. I know all the Directors of Moral
Holdings Limited as I am also one the Director of the said
Company. It is incorrect to suggest that the plaintiff got
prepared demand draft Mark `C', in favour of Moral
Holdings Limited at my instance. I am not aware about
the outcome of the complaint Ex. DW-4/C. I came to
know that Mr. Gaurav Rajput and Gaurav Arora are the
same person from the record of ROC pertaining to certain
companies wherein he and his wife are Directors. I did
not make any complaint to the ROC in this regard. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Piyush Dhanotia,
 Advocate vice Mr. Anshul Bansal, Advocate
 for defendants No. 2,3 and 8. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th February, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 27.02.2024
 Present: Mr. J.S. Bhogal, Senior Advocate with Ms. Swati
 Verma, Advocate, for the Plaintiff. Mr. Vikas Jain, Advocate with Ms. Pragati,
 Advocate for defendants No. 1,6 and 7. Mr. Piyush Dhanotia, Advocate, vice Mr. Anshul
 Bansal, Advocate, for defendants No. 2,3 and 8. Defendants No. 4 and 5 already ex-parte. Statement of Shri Mandeep Sandhu, is recorded as
 DW-4. The list of witness of defendants No. 1,6 and 7 is
 exhausted. Learned vice counsel for defendants No. 2,3
 and 8 seeks time for DWs. Learned the steps, if any, be taken within two weeks,
 thereafter the process be issued for the service of DWs on
 behalf of defendants No. 2,3 and 8. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th February, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 28.02.2024
Present: Mr. J.S. Bhogal, Senior Advocate with Ms. Swati
 Verma, Advocate, for the petitioner.
 Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Pranjal
 Munjal & Mr. Vedhant Ranta, Advocates, for the
 respondent/non-objector. As per the office report, summons issued to PW-1, has
 been received back with effective service. However, an email
 has been received from Dr. Debasish Basu, that as per the
 policy of the PGIMER, the record pertaining to the Indoor
 Patient are retained only for 10 years and thereafter, the same
 is destroyed as per the policy. The circular pertaining to that
 policy of destruction as well as list of the destroyed files has
 also been annexed with the email, wherein at Sl. No. 147 in
 the list of destroyed files the record pertaining to the patient
 (Surinder Swaroop-39722) has been destroyed. The email
 sent by Dr. Debasish Basu alongwith the annexed documents
 is taken on record. However, learned senior counsel for the petitioner
 submits that since the concerned official/officer has been
 cited as a witness he or she is required to depose this fact
 after putting personal appearance before the Court. Accordingly, the email sent by the concerned
 doctor cannot be taken as evidence on his/her behalf.
 Therefore, let fresh summons be again issued to this witness
 for deposing before the Court after putting his/her
 appearance. Let the fresh summons be issued to the said
 witness for 12.03.2024 on taking steps within two days as the
 evidence in the present matter has been directed by the
 Hon'ble Court to be completed in the month of March, 2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28 February, 2024
 th

 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 01.03.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Mr. Vivek
 Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Mr. Sanjeev Bhushan, Advocate with Mr. Sohail Khan,
 Advocate, for the defendant. As per the office report, steps for summoning the PWs
 have not been taken. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff
 seeks time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days. Thereafter
 process be issued for the service of PWs, returnable for
 06.05.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 891 of 2022 in RS No. 46 of 2017
 AW-1 Statement of Shri Padam Nabh S/o Shri Gopi
 Chand, aged about 48 years, R/o Village
 Sahaut, P.O. Khaneol, Tehsil Karsog, District
 Mandi, H.P.
 On Oath
 01.03.2024
 Stated that in RSA No. 46 of 2017, which has
been filed by my father, the Hon'ble Court has directed to
maintain status quo qua nature and possession of the suit
land vide order dated 15.03.2017 and the said order was
made absolute by the Hon'ble Court on 21.06.2017, in the
presence of the learned counsel for the parties. The
disputed Khasra No. is 1658, measuring 0-11-10 Bighas.
In November, 2021, the respondent Bhupender Kumar
raised the construction of safety tank, over which two
pillars were raised by him inspite of the stay order of the
Hon'ble Court. I requested the respondent Bhupender
Kumar not to raise the construction as there is stay order
from the High Court but he did not pay any heed to my
request and raise the construction. All the respondents are
residing together being brothers. The copy of the
Jamabandi for the year 2017-2018 of the disputed land is
Ex. AW1/A. I have also clicked the photographs of the
construction which was being raised by Bhupender Kumar
on the disputed land from my mobile, which is Mark `A',
from which it is apparent that the construction has been
raised on the disputed land. The respondents have
 intentionally and willfully disobeyed the orders of the
Hon'ble Court. CMP(M) 891 of 2022 in RS No. 46 of 2017

 xxx xxx xxx Mr. O.P. Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondents
 I have filed only one contempt petition in the present
RSA. It is correct that the present RSA No. 46 of 2017,
has been filed by my father. It is correct that at that time I
did not accompany him. It is correct that I am not aware
about the contents and grounds of the appeal filed by my
father. It is correct that on 15.03.2017 and 21.06.2017
neither me nor my father was present in the Hon'ble High
Court. Self stated that we have been informed about the
stay order by our counsel. It is correct that matter
pertaining to the suit property in the present case is
regarding Will executed by Late Purshotam in favour of
respondents which was challenged by my father. It is
incorrect that Purshotam never remained owner of Khasra
No. 1658 nor he executed a Will regarding this Khasra
Number. It is correct that in Jamabandi for the year 2017-
2018 there was no mention of the ownership of
Purshotam. Self stated that in the old Jamabandi there is a
mention about the ownership of Purshotam qua this
Khasra Number. It is correct that Jamabandi for the year
2017-2018 Ex.AW1/A, is the revenue document
pertaining to the joint property of the appellants and
respondents. It is incorrect that there is no relation with the
property of Purshotam in the Jamabandi Ex. AW1/A,
 regarding the Will executed by Purshotam in favour of
respondents. I came to know about the Khasra Number
from Patwari on which the construction was raised by the
 CMP(M) 891 of 2022 in RS No. 46 of 2017

respondents, when I visited Patwarkhana. Patwari never
visited the spot. I have not annexed any document
prepared by the revenue agency regarding the construction
raised on Khasra No. 1658, mentioned in Ex. AW1/A. It
is incorrect that Khasra No. 1658 never remained the part
of suit property of the present litigation. It is incorrect
that I am deposing false. It is incorrect that I have filed
the present contempt petition without any basis. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 891 of 2022 in RS No. 46 of 2017
 Statement of Shri G.R. Palsra, Advocate, for
 the petitioner. Without Oath

 01.03.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine Smt.
Pingla Devi being repetitive in nature. I also tender in
evidence the original Jamabandi for the year 2008-2009,
Ex. AW1/B and close the evidence on behalf of the
petitioners. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 891 of 2022 in RS No. 46 of 2017
 01.03.2024
 Present: Mr. G.R. Palsra, Advocate, for the petitioners. Mr. O.P. Chauhan, Advocate, for the respondents. Statement of Shri Padam Nabh is recorded as AW-1.
 Learned counsel for the petitioner vide his separate statement
 close the evidence on behalf of the petitioner and tendered the
 Jambandi for the year 2008-2009, which is taken on record
 Ex. AW1/B.

 Learned counsel for the respondents seeks time for
 taking the steps for RWs. Let the steps be taken within
 fifteen days. Thereafter process be issued for the service of
 RWs, for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st March, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 6 of 2018 04.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Varun Chauhan, learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff. Mr. T.S. Chauhan, Advocate, for defendant No.1. Mr. Het Ram, learned vice counsel for defendant No.2. None for defendant No.3

 As per order dated 17.11.2023, passed by Additional
 Registrar (Judicial), the plaintiff was to be produced on self
 responsibility for adducing his evidence today, however,
 learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to
 recent snowfall at Narkanda, the plaintiff could not come to
 the Court today. He seeks time for plaintiff's evidence. The request of learned vice counsel for the plaintiff is
 considered and allowed. Let the plaintiff be produced on the
 next date of hearing to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1244 of 2022 In RSA
 04.03.2024
 Present: Ms. Urvashi Rajta, Advocate vice Mr. Tara Singh
 Chauhan, Advocate, for the applicant. None for the respondents. As per office report, list of witness has been filed by
 the learned counsel for the applicant and all the witnesses
 mentioned in the list of witnesses will be produced on self
 responsibility. Let the case be listed for AWs on 08.4.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 One sealed Parcel containing used OMR Answer
 Sheets, is submitted, please. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 04.03.2024

Worthy Registrar (Vigilance/Recruitment)
 It is humbly submitted that a letter dated 23 rd January,
2024, has been received from the Ld. District & Sessions Judge,
Shimla, forwarding therewith the request letter of Civil Judge-
cum-ACJM, Court No.3, Shimla, alongwith an email sent by one
of the party, namely Seema Sahai, pertaining to her Civil Suit. In this regard, it is further submitted that no Civil Suit
pertaining to the applicant (Seema Sahai), is pending adjudication
before the Hon'ble High Court of Himachal Pradesh as of date
and her case i.e. Civil Suit No. 4 of 2014, which was pending
before the Hon'ble High Court has been transferred to the Lower
Court, Shimla, on account of enhancement of pecuniary
jurisdiction. Therefore, no action/comments can be made by the
Judicial Branch. Accordingly, the matter is submitted for your
kind perusal consideration and orders. Submitted, please. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 04.03.2024

Worthy Registrar General COMS No. 32 of 2018 PW-1 Statement of Shri Hanish Rana S/o Shri A.C.
 Rana, aged about 47 years, O/o Civil Judge
 Manali, District Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 04.03.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Civil Ahlmad in the
Court of Ld. Civil Judge Senior Division Manali, since
2018. I have brought the summoned record Civil Suit No.
5 of 2015, titled as Kamal D Lama vs. Ram Singh . As per
the record the above said Civil Suit was filed on
01.01.2015 and the same was decided on 04.01.2024. The
certified copy of the plaint Ex.PW-1/A, and certified copy
of the replication Ex. PW-1/B, certified copy of the
application under Order IX Rule 7, CPC Ex. PW-1/C and
certified copy of the reply to the said application Ex. PW-
1/D, are same as per the original record brought by me. xxx xxx xxx Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 32 of 2018 PW-2 Statement of Ms. Devi Bali, Assistant
 Manager, H.P. Financial Corporation, New
 Himrus Building, Circular Road, Shimla. On Oath
 04.03.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Assistant Manager,
In H.P. Financial Corporation, New Himrus Building,
Circular Road, Shimla, since 2020. I have brought the
requisitioned record. As per our record, H.P. Financial
Corporation has granted the loan in favour of Shri Ram
Singh, for the purpose of constructing the Hotel, namely
Hotel Seagull, at Manali, District Kullu, H.P. Shri Ram
Singh was granted loans ( seven times) from time to time
for raising the construction of the said Hotel. Shri Ram
Singh closed/paid all the loan cases time to time and as of
date there is only one loan account, which is pending with
the H.P. Financial Corporation. Pertaining to the said
pending loan of Shri Ram Singh, recovery proceedings
were initiated by the H.P. Financial Corporation and the
said Hotel was taken over on 15.03.2019. The copy of the
recovery proceedings is Ex. PW-2/A. I have brought the
original record of the proceedings of Ex.PW-2/A. I have
also brought the certified copy of the statement of
accounts of Shri Ram Singh, which is Ex. PW-2/B. The
letter dated 04.07.2018, Ex.PW2/C-1, (three leaves) and
letter dated 25.02.2019, Ex.PW-2/C-2, have been issued
by our office to M/s Hotel Seagull and Shri Ram Singh. xxx xxx xxx Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the
 defendant. It is correct that after taking over the possession
of the Hotel Seagull, the H.P. Financial corporation
handed over the possession of the said Hotel by Smt.
Sarita Bodh w/o Shri Ram Singh as General Power of
Attorney of Ram Singh. I do not know that Smt. Sarita
Bodh is running the Hotel as of date. Self stated that we
have not received any payment from Smt. Sarita Bodh. It
is correct that Ex.PW-2/A, has not been prepared by me.
Self stated that I have only prepared Accounts statement
i.e. Ex.PW-2/B. The taking over proceedings Ex. PW-
2/A, has been prepared by Shri M.S. Chitranta, Manager
H.P. Financial Corporation and Shri B.L. Bhardwaj of the
Corporation. Both the above said officials have retired. I
have prepared the statement of Accounts Ex.PW-2/B on
the basis of scroll/ledger sent by the Cash Section. It is
correct that I cannot tell from which date Smt. Sarita Bodh
was having possession of the said Hotel. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 32 of 2018 PW-3 Statement of Shri Vinod Kumar Chambyal,
 Deputy Superintendent, Model Central Jail,
 Nahan, District Sirmour, H.P.
 On Oath
 04.03.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Deputy
Superintendent, Model Central Jail, Nahan, District
Sirmour, H.P., since June, 2020. I have brought the
original summoned record. As per my record accused
Ram Singh undergone the sentence in different cases at
Model Central Jail, Nahan for the total period of four
years eleven months. As per our record, Ram Singh, had
undergone the sentences from 10.11.2015 to 09.07.2019,
the details of which are mentioned in the custody
certificate Ex. PW-3/A and Ex. PW-3/B, has been issued
by my predecessor and I am conversant with his
signatures. xxx xxx xxx Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the
 defendant. It is correct that Ex.PW-3/A and Ex. PW-3/B
has not been prepared in my presence. He had undergone
the sentences in Model Central Jail Nahan under Section
138 of the Negotiable and offence under IPC , detail of
which is given in Ex. PW-3/A and Ex. PW-3/B.

R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 4th March, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 32 of 2018 04.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with Ms. Pooja
 Verma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the defendant. Statement of Shri Hanish Rana, Ms. Devi Bali and Shri
 Vinod Chambyal, are recorded as PW-1 to PW-3,
 respectively. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has submitted
 that Shri Ram Singh plaintiff is also present today. Learned
 counsel for the plaintiff submits that the plaintiff will be
 examined at later stage. Learned counsel for the defendant
 has submitted that in case the plaintiff is not examined today
 before examining the witnesses, who are present today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that he will
 move the appropriate application for examining the plaintiff
 after the examination of witnesses of record. Let the PWs at
 Sr. No. 4,5 and 6 in the list of witnesses be summoned on
 taking steps within fifteen days for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 484 of 2015
 05.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 appellant. Mr. Abhishek, Advocate, vice Ms. Rachna
 Kuthiala, Advocate, for respondents No. 2,3 and 5. As per the orders of Hon'ble Court dated
 09.01.2024, the serving officer who conducted the
 proclamation proceedings appeared for getting his
 statement recorded with respect to the proclamation of
 respondent No.6. The statement of Shri Hari Ram, HASI (Retd.) is
 recorded. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 484 of 2015
 Statement of Shri Hari Ram, HASI (Retd.),
 S/o Shri Biria Ram R/o Village Aduwal,
 P.O. Reru, Tehsil Nalagarh, District Solan,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 05.03.2024
 Stated that on the proclamation notice was
handed over to me by IC summon, Superintendent of
Police Baddi, District Solan, Himachal Pradesh, on
01.11.2023, for affixing the same at some conspicuous
places at Shiv Colony Pinjore, Kalka, Conspicous part
of the Municipal Corporation office Panchkulla and
Kalka, and notice Board of Police Station Pinjore and
in the Court of Ld. Magistrate at Kalka Pinjore and
Nalagarh. In compliance to that I affixed the copy of
proclamation at Shiv Colony Pinjore on 07.12.2023, in
the presence of Municipal Councillor Kalka. I also
take the signature of the Muncipal Counselor after
affixing the proclamation notice at Shiv Colony. The
proclamation was also read over to the general public
present at that time in the presence of Municipal
Counselor. On the same day, i.e. on 07.12.2023, I
also affixed the copies of the proclamation in the
office of Municipal Council Panchkulla in the
presence of witnesses who also appended their
signatures on the back side of the proclamation notice.
 I also affixed the copy of the proclamation notice at
police station Pinjore on 13.11.2023 in the presence of
MHC Pinjore, who also appended his signature on the
back side of the proclamation notice. I also affixed
the copy of the proclamation notice in the Courts of
Magistrate at Kalka Pinjore and Nalagarh on
20.11.20223, 21.11.2023 and 07.12.2023 in the
presence of the witnesses who appended their
signatures on the back side of the proclamation notice.
 After completing the affixation at the above said
places, I send the compliance report to IC summon,
Superintendent of Police office Baddi, District Solan,
H.P.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

5th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 PW-3 Statement of Shri Arvind Sharma, aged 54
 years, Income Tax Officer, TDS, Solan,
 District Solan, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 05.03.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Income Tax Officer,
TDS Solan, from August, 2023. I have brought the
original summoned record. The certified copy of the
computer generated TDS deposit with respect to M/s
Andaz Resort Pvt. Ltd. TAN No. PTLA14025E, for the
financial year 2014-2015, is Ex. PW-3/A and for the year
2015-2016, Ex.PW-3/B. I have also issued the certificate
under Sectioon 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, Ex. PW-
3/C, regarding the authenticity of the computer generated
documents Ex.PW-3/A and Ex.PW-3/B. The deductee of
the TDS with respect to Anand Resort is Shri Chaman Lal
having PAN No. ACHPL0159Q. xxx xxx xxx Shri B.S. Attri, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 05.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Anirudh Sharma, Advocate vice Mr. P.S.
 Goverdhan, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. B.S. Attri, Advocate, for defendants. Statement of Shri Arvind Sharma, is recorded as
 PW-3. As per office report, PWs mentioned at Sl. No. 6
 and 8, in the list of witnesses are duly served. Learned
 vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to ill
 health witness mentioned at Sl. No.8, could not come to
 the Court to adduce his evidence. Shri Neeraj Sharma,
 learned counsel also represented the witness mentioned
 at Sl. No. 6 requested that due to some health issues, he
 could not come to the Court for adducing his evidence.
 Learned counsel seeks time for producing the witnesses,
 who are served for today but could not come to the
 Court. The requests of the learned counsel are considered.
 Let the witnesses mentioned at Sl. No. 6 and 8 be
 summoned for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if any, be taken within fifteen
 days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 in RSA
 06.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Goldy Kumar, Advocate, for the
 applicant/appellant

 Ms. Vandana, Advocate, vice counsel for Mr.
 Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate for non-applicant/
 respondent. As per the office report the steps for summoning
 the applicants' witnesses have not been taken. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted
 that the list of witnesses and P.F have been filed
 yesterday i.e., on 5.03.2024. Learned counsel for the
 applicant further submits that he wants to examine the
 applicant only and he will be produced on self
 responsibility. Since, the applicant will be produced on self
 responsibility, therefore, there is no need to issue the
 summons. Let the AWs be produced on self
 responsibility on 30.04.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th March, 2024
 (gaurav) COMS No. 13 of 2019 07.03.2024
 Present: Ms. Shikha Rajta, Advocate, vice counsel for Mr.
 Prem P. Chauhan, Advocate for the plaintiff. Mr. Panku Chaudhary, Advocate, vice counsel for
 Mr. Virender Katoch, Advocate for the defendants. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff has submit
 that the plaintiff is not present today due some
 unavoidable circumstances. Learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff further submits that she will produce the
 plaintiff on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility. Accordingly, let the case be listed for
 plaintiffs' evidence for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar(Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th March, 2024
 (gaurav) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 11.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Rohit, learned vice counsel for the plaintiff. Mr. Ajeet Jaswal, Advocate, learned vice counsel
 for defendant No.1. Mr. Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with Mr. Khem
 Raj, Advocate, for defendant No.2. As per the office report, defendant No.2 is required
 to be produced on self responsibility for adducing his
 evidence. Learned counsel for defendant No.2, submits
 that defendant No.2 is not present today, however, he
 will be produced on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility. Accordingly, let the case be listed before
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 defendant No.2, evidence, who will be produced on self
 responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 PW-5 Statement of Ms. Sumna Kumari, aged aboute
 31 years, Patwari, Patwar Circle Ner, Tehsil
 Balh, District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.03.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Patwari at Patwar
Circle Ner, Tehsil Balh, District from the last two years. I
have brought the original revenue record. As per original
revenue record Jamabandi for the year 2017-2018 and
notes/mutations at Sl. No. 1 to 3 in the said Jamabandi are
as per the original record, which I have brought today. The
copy of the said Jamabandi is Ex. PW-5/A. Original seen
and returned. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the defendants. The Mutation No. 4937 is attested by the
Tehsildar on 03.02.2023 and the mutation No. 4954 was
also attested by the Tehsildar on 01.02.2023. The said
mutations were attested by the Tehsildar on the
application dated 08.10.2020, filed by the Bank. It is
correct that as per the record the share pertaining to one of
the co-sharer, namely Shri Bharat Kumar is still
mortgaged with the Canera Bank as of date. I have not
brought the application pertaining to the mutation No.
4954, since the same has not been requisitioned. It is
 correct that the share pertaining to one of the co-sharer
was mortgage with Central Bank of India, Gutkar Branch, Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 District Mandi. Self stated that the same has been re-
deemed vide mutation No. 4954. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 PW-4 Statement of Mr. Tashi, aged 35 years, S/o Shri
 Tandup Gyacho, R/o Village Surad, P.O.
 Khokhan, Tehsil Bhunter, District Kullu, H.P.
 The witness was deferred on 29.05.2023, and
 his examination is resumed. On Oath
 11.03.2024
 Stated that I have brought the abstract of the
Account Ledger Inquiry relating to Ashok Kumar
(Housing Loan) today. The said housing loan was closed
by Shri Ashok Kumar on 08.10.2020. The certified copy
of the Account Ledger Inquiry of Shri Ashok Kumar is
Ex. PW-4/A. The certificate under Bankers Book
Evidence Act is Ex.PW4/B.
 xxx xxx xxx Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the defendants. I am Branch Manager of the Indian Overseas
Bank Branch at Ner. I am duly responsible for
maintaining the record of the Branch. It is correct that
Shri Parkash Chand remained Branch Manager of the
above said Branch. I am not aware the period during
which Shri Parkash Chand was Branch Manager of Ner
Branch. I am not aware about the certificate (Mark D-2),
issued by the then Branch Manager. Shri Ashok Kumar
was posted as Manager during the year 2018 in our
Branch. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 11th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 Statement of Shri George, learned counsel for
 the plaintiff. Without Oath
 11.03.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
the plaintiff since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 11.03.2024
 Present: Mr. George, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Statement of Shri Tashi is resumed today and is
 recorded as PW-4. Statement of Ms. Sumna Kumari, is
 recorded as PW-5. Vide separate statement, Shri
 George, learned counsel for the plaintiff has closed the
 evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. Accordingly, now the case be listed before
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 defendants evidence. Steps, if any, be taken within
 fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9395 of 2018 in RSA No. 112 of 2018
12.03.2024
Present: Mr. Gaurav Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants/appellants. Mr. Kiran Kumar Chauhan, Advocate vice Mr.
 Dushyant Dadwal, Advocate, for the respondents. As per the office report, RWs mentioned at Sl. No.
 3 and 4 are duly served, however, witness mentioned at
 Sl. No. 5 has refused to take the notice on account of his
 ill health. Learned vice counsel for the respondents has
 placed on record the prescription slip of witness Ishwar
 Dass Dogra (RW) mentioned at Sl. No. 4 and Atul
 Sharma, (RW) mentioned at Sl. No. 3. The prescription
 slips are taken on record. However, the witness
 mentioned at Sl. No. 5 has again refuse to take the
 summon. The perusal of the earlier order dated
 19.10.2023, depicts that on the earlier occasion also the
 witness at Sl. No. 4 has shown his inability to come to
 the Court due to his ill health and witness mentioned at
 Sl. No. 5 has refused to take the summon. From the
 conduct of the witnesses it appears that they are not
 coming to the Court without any basis. Learned vice counsel for the respondents
 has submitted that he will inform personally to these
 witnesses to come to the Court for adducing their
 evidences on the next date of hearing. Accordingly, let fresh summons be issued
 for the service of witnesses mentioned at Sl. No. 3,4 and
 CMP No. 9395 of 2018 in RSA No. 112 of 2018

 5 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Steps, be taken within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 12.03.2024
 Present: Mr. J.S. Bhogal, Senior Advocate with Mr. T.S.
 Bhogal, Advocate, for the applicant. Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Vedhant Ranta, Advocate, for the respondent. The witness, Dr. Namita Sharma, PGIMER,
 Chandigarh is examined through Video Conferencing as
 AW-1. The witness has been duly identified by Ms.
 Geetika Dudeja, Coordinator PGIMER Chandigarh at
 remote end. List of witnesses filed by the applicant is
 exhausted. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant
 submits that he will move appropriate application for
 secondary evidence before the Hon'ble Court. Since the list of witness filed by the applicant is
 exhausted, accordingly, AWs are closed. At this stage,
 the respondents does not want to lead any evidence on
 behalf of the respondents. Section Officer concerned is
 directed to send a copy of the statement to the
 witness at her address at the earliest, so that the
 witness will send it back to the Court after signing
 her statement. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 AW-1 Statement of Dr. Namita Sharma, aged 30
 years, presently working as Senior Resident,
 Department of Psychiatry, at PGIMER,
 Chandigarh. On Oath
 12.03.2024
 Stated that I am working as Senior Resident,
Department of Psychiatry at PGIMER, Chandigarh. I
have not been able to trace the record pertaining to the
admission and treatment of the patient, Shri Surinder
Saroop as the same has been destroyed, as per policy of
PGIMER, Chandigarh. The Circular dated 20.06.2013,
Ex. AW-1/A and office order dated 12.06.2018, along
with list of destroyed files (three leaves) Ex.AW-1/B,
have already been submitted by me through email. I have
not annexed any certificate regarding destruction of files
of the patient Shri Surinder Swaroop, however, I have
placed on record through email the list of destructed files
in which the file of Shri Surinder Saroop has been
mentioned at Serial Number 147. I am not aware the date
on which the file of Shri Surinder Saroop has been
destroyed. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Mr. Vedhant Ranta,
 Advocate, for the respondent. As per my knowledge and the information
gathered from the Administration Department PGIMER,
Chandigarh, the Circular Ex. AW-1/A and Office Order
Ex.AW-1/B, are the only Circulars by which the files of Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 the indoor patient are being destroyed. Self stated that I
am not certain whether there is any other Circular or office
order have been issued pertaining to this fact by the
PGIMER Administration Chandigarh. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 77 of 2016 13.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain, Advocates,
 for the plaintiff. Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Ajeet
 Pal Singh Jaswal and Mr. Vedhant Ranta,
 Advocates, for the defendant. The plaintiff Shri Pavel Garg is present today for
 adducing his evidence today. However, learned Senior
 Counsel for the defendant submits that he wants to
 confront the plaintiff with certain documents and the
 same are not available with him today. Therefore,
 learned Senior Counsel seeks adjournment. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has further
 submitted that there are three Civil Suits of similar
 nature and the point of controversy in the said Civil Suits
 is almost similar and the parties these Suits are same.
 Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits that he
 will move an appropriate application before the Hon'ble
 Court for consolidation of the cases as the evidence in all
 these Suits, required to be led by the plaintiff is similar. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court after the appropriate application will be
 filed by the plaintiff for consolidation of the cases i.e.
 Civil Suit Nos. 77, 78 and 79 of 2016. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 78 of 2016 13.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain, Advocates,
 for the plaintiff. Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Ajeet
 Pal Singh Jaswal and Mr. Vedhant Ranta,
 Advocates, for the defendant. The plaintiff Shri Pavel Garg is present today for
 adducing his evidence today. However, learned Senior
 Counsel for the defendant submits that he wants to
 confront the plaintiff with certain documents and the
 same are not available with him today. Therefore,
 learned Senior Counsel seeks adjournment. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has further
 submitted that there are three Civil Suits of similar
 nature and the point of controversy in the said Civil Suits
 is almost similar and the parties these Suits are same.
 Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits that he
 will move an appropriate application before the Hon'ble
 Court for consolidation of the cases as the evidence in all
 these Suits, required to be led by the plaintiff is similar. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court after the appropriate application will be
 filed by the plaintiff for consolidation of the cases i.e.
 Civil Suit Nos. 77, 78 and 79 of 2016. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 79 of 2016 13.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain, Advocates,
 for the plaintiff. Mr. Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Ajeet
 Pal Singh Jaswal and Mr. Vedhant Ranta,
 Advocates, for the defendant. The plaintiff Shri Pavel Garg is present today for
 adducing his evidence today. However, learned Senior
 Counsel for the defendant submits that he wants to
 confront the plaintiff with certain documents and the
 same are not available with him today. Therefore,
 learned Senior Counsel seeks adjournment. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has further
 submitted that there are three Civil Suits of similar
 nature and the point of controversy in the said Civil Suits
 is almost similar and the parties these Suits are same.
 Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits that he
 will move an appropriate application before the Hon'ble
 Court for consolidation of the cases as the evidence in all
 these Suits, required to be led by the plaintiff is similar. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court after the appropriate application will be
 filed by the plaintiff for consolidation of the cases i.e.
 Civil Suit Nos. 77, 78 and 79 of 2016. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 PW-14 Statement of Shri Vinay Kumar, S/o Late
 Parma Nand, aged 58 years, presently working
 as Superintendent in the office of Central GST
 Commissionerate, Chotta Shimla-171 002. On Oath
 14.03.2024
 Stated that I am working as Superintendent in
the office of Central GST Commissionerate, Chotta
Shimla from the last five years. I have brought the
requisitioned record. The Leave License Agreement Ex.
PW-12/A, is true and correct as per official record. I
have also brought the recommendation of the higher rate
increase by CPWD, Mark-A, now Ex. PW-14/A.
Objected to on the mode of proof. xxx xxx xxx Mr. YP Sood, Advocate for the
 defendant
 It is correct that Ex. PW-14/A, has never been
dealt with by me nor I have appended my signature on the
said document. Self stated that I have brought the original
official record. I am not conversant with the signatures or
the name of the official, who has appended their
signatures on Ex. PW-14/A. Self stated that I am
conversant with the signatures of Shamsher Saini, under
Red Circle B, who was working Tax Assistant in our
office at that relevant time. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 PW-15 Statement of Ms. Sonia Thakur, D/o Shri
 Durga Charan Singh, aged about 45 years,
 presently working as Secretary, H.P. State
 Information Commission, Shimla. On Oath
 14.03.2024
 Stated that I am working as Secretary in the
Office of H.P. State Information Commission, since April
2022. I have brought the requisitioned original record.
As per our record, the rent invoice Ex.PW-15/A, is true
and correct. I have also brought the photocopy of the
agreement dated 01.04.2017, between Parmod Sood and
Himachal Pradesh State Information Commission, copy of
which is Mark-C.
 xxx xxx xxx Mr. YP Sood, Advocate for the
 defendant
 The original agreement Mark-C, is not
available in our official record. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 Statement of Mr. Dhananjay Sharma,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Without Oath
 14.03.2024
 Stated that I give up PW Dev Dhir, mentioned
at Sl. No. 1 in the list of witness being repetitive in nature. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 14.03.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Dhananjai Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Y.P. Sood, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2. None for defendant No.3. Statement of Shri Vinay Kumar and Ms. Sonia
 Thakur, are recorded as PW-14 and PW-15, respectively.
 Shri Dhananjay Sharma, learned counsel for the plaintiff
 vide his separate statement has given up Shri Dev Dhir
 witness mentioned at Sl. No.1, in the list of witnesses. The plaintiff and witness Shri B.C. Sharma, are
 also present but learned counsel for the defendants
 submits that due to some unavoidable reason, he is not
 able to cross examine the witness Shri B.C. Sharma and
 plaintiff today. Learned counsel for the defendants
 further requested that the remaining witnesses may be
 examined on the next date of hearing. Learned counsel
 for the plaintiff has no objection to the request of learned
 counsel for the defendants. Accordingly, the other
 witnesses present today are discharged for today. Let the plaintiff and the witness Shri B.C. Sharma
 be produced on self responsibility on the next date of
 hearing. List on 13.05.2024, for remaining PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th March, 2024
 (Pritam) RSA No. 549 of 2009 15.03.2024
 Present: Mr. Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for the
 appellant/applicant

 Mr. Manish Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondents/non-applicant No. 1,2 and 4. Respondents No. 3 (A) to 3(c) already ex-parte. Applicant, Shri Sarwan Kumar is present today.
 However, learned counsel for non-applicant No. 1,2 and
 4 submits that due to inadvertence he has not marked the
 case and, therefore, he has not contacted his client and
 seeks adjournment for today. The request of learned
 counsel for the non-applicant is not opposed by the
 applicant/appellant. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned
 for today. Let the case be listed before Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) for fixing the date of remaining AWs on self
 responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 That by this email, the petitioner wants to get to bring
into the notice the high volume of illegal Slate mining
happening in the areas around Dharamshala, i.e.
Khaniyara, Lungta and Salate Godown which is
impacting the fragile Himalayas and eco-system. As per
the petitioner, he had a chance to track at the area around
Lungta Camps in Khaniyara, whereby he was surprised
to notice the level of the Slate mining going on in this
area. The complete area has been ruined by the heavy
explosive and equipment used by the people to bring
down the mountains for getting the Slate. As per the
petitioner, there is a very beautiful river, which is visible
near to the Power Project and thereafter it is lost in the
ruins and debris/rocks left from the mining. During the
petitioner's visit heard three loud explosion due to which
a big chunk of mountain fell down. A group of people
after every 20 meters were found to be busy in bringing
down the mighty mountain and extracting Slates. The
illegal mining is resulting in de-forestation and damage
to the Himalaya at unpresidented scale and this activity
is going for the years un-checked. Further, where this
activity is going on is forest area. That the negligence of the local administration and un-
checked illegal mining activities is posing a risk to the
beauty of the Himalayas which could change the
demographic structure and may result a calamity at any
time. Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 a/w Counter Claim No. 108 of 2021
18.03.2024
Present: Mr. Maan Singh, Advocate, for the plaintiff in
 Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 and defendant/Counter
 Claimant in Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021.. Mr. Janmajai Chauhan, Advocate, vice Mr. Sunil
 Mohan Goel, Advocate, for the defendant in Civil
 Suit No. 95 of 2020n and for the plaintiff/counter
 claimant in Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021. The plaintiff (Yash Pal) and witness Shri Ramesh
 Kanwar, are present today. However, learned vice
 counsel for the defendants/counter claimants submits
 that their names have not been reflected in the Cause
 List, therefore, they could not ascertain that the case has
 been listed today for plaintiff's evidence as they have not
 brought the case file today. Learned vice counsel for the
 defendants seeks adjournment on this ground. The prayer of the learned vice counsel is genuine,
 accordingly, recording of plaintiff's evidence is
 adjourned for today. The Dealing Assistant concerned is directed to
 reflect the name of the learned counsel for the
 defendants/Counter Claimants in the Cause List in
 future. Moreover, the defendants have also filed counter
 claim, which has been registered as Civil Suit No. 108 of
 2021 and the same has also not been reflected in the
 Cause List. The perusal of issues framed by the Hon'ble
 Court, shows that there will be common evidence in both
 the Civil Suits, therefore, the Dealing Assistant
 concerned is further directed to reflect the Counter
 Claim/Civil Suit No. 108 of 2021, in the Cause List in
 future. Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 a/w Counter Claim No. 108 of 2021

 Accordingly, the witnesses, who are present today
 are discharged. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th March, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 100 of 2022 19.03.2024 Present:- Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 19th March, 2024
 (Pritam) RSA No. 223 of 2014 19.03.2024 Present:- 20.03.2024 Present:- 21.03.2024 Present:- AW-1/A. The Corporation had filed the first appeal
before the Lower Appellate Court and the same was
decided by the Court of Additional District Judge-I,
Shimla on 31.12.2021. The Corporation/applicant came to
know about the said decision when the Corporation
received notice dated 28.07.2022 in Execution Petition
No. 55 of 2022. After receiving the notice in the
Execution Petition the Corporation wrote a letter dated
03.08.2022 to Shri Vikrant Thakur, Advocate, who was
appearing as Standing Counsel for the Corporation in the
said appeal regarding to know about the status of the said
appeal. We did not receive any correspondence from our
Standing Counsel thereafter the applicant again wrote a
letter dated 27.08.2022, to our Standing Counsel. Since
even after the reminder to our counsel we did not get any
reply, therefore, I personally visited Lower Court and
applied the certified copy of the judgment of the Lower
 Appellant Court on 01.09.2022, which was received by me
on 08.09.2022. Thereafter we consulted our Advocate at
 CMP(M) No. 1684 of 2022 in RSA

High Court and on 16.12.2022, the applicant-appellant
filed the present Regular Second Appeal in the High
Court. There is no intentional or willful delay on the part
of the applicant as the applicant came to know about the
decision of First Appellate Court only after receipt of
notice in the Execution petition. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate
 for the respondent. It is correct that Shri Rakesh Prajapati is not
Managing Director of the HPGIC at present. Self stated
that Shri Ashutosh Garg is Managing Director of the
HPGIC as of date. Shri Ashutosh Garg has joined as
Managing Director in the month of February, 20224. It is
correct that Ex.AW-1/A has not been issued by the present
Managing Director. It is correct that the letters written to
the Standing Counsel has not been annexed on the record
at the time of the filing of the appeal. Self stated that I
have brought the original letter today. I am not aware that
whenever a certified copy is applied the name of the
applicant is reflected in the certified copy. It is incorrect
that the Corporation was well aware about the decision of
the First Appeallate Court. It is incorrect that the
Corporation has intentionally and willfully not filed the
appeal in time. It is incorrect that there is delay and
latches on the part of the Corporation.
 R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1714 of 2022 in RSA

 AW-1 Statement of Shri Pankaj Pandit, Deputy
 Manager (General/Legal), Himachal Pradesh
 General Industries Corporation Ltd., aged 37
 years, Himrus Building near Hotel Himland,
 Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 21.03.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy General
Manager, at HPGIC, Shimla since 2017. I have been duly
authorized to adduce evidence on behalf of HPGIC by the
Managing Director, the copy of authority letter is Ex.
AW-1/A. The Corporation had filed the first appeal
before the Lower Appellate Court and the same was
decided by the Court of Additional District Judge-I,
Shimla on 31.12.2021. The Corporation/applicant came to
know about the said decision when the Corporation
received notice dated 28.07.2022 in Execution Petition
No. 55 of 2022. After receiving the notice in the
Execution Petition the Corporation wrote a letter dated
03.08.2022 to Shri Vikrant Thakur, Advocate, who was
appearing as Standing Counsel for the Corporation in the
said appeal regarding to know about the status of the said
appeal. We did not receive any correspondence from our
Standing Counsel thereafter the applicant again wrote a
letter dated 27.08.2022, to our Standing Counsel. Since
 even after the reminder to our counsel we did not get any
reply, therefore, I personally visited Lower Court and
applied the certified copy of the judgment of the Lower
Appellant Court on 01.09.2022, which was received by me
on 08.09.2022. Thereafter we consulted our Advocate at
 CMP(M) No. 1714 of 2022 in RSA

High Court and on 16.12.2022, the applicant-appellant
filed the present Regular Second Appeal in the High
Court. There is no intentional or willful delay on the part
of the applicant as the applicant came to know about the
decision of First Appellate Court only after receipt of
notice in the Execution petition. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Janesh Gupta, Advocate
 for the respondent. It is correct that Shri Rakesh Prajapati is not
Managing Director of the HPGIC at present. Self stated
that Shri Ashutosh Garg is Managing Director of the
HPGIC as of date. Shri Ashutosh Garg has joined as
Managing Director in the month of February, 20224. It is
correct that Ex.AW-1/A has not been issued by the present
Managing Director. It is correct that the letters written to
the Standing Counsel has not been annexed on the record
at the time of the filing of the appeal. Self stated that I
have brought the original letter today. I am not aware that
whenever a certified copy is applied the name of the
applicant is reflected in the certified copy. It is incorrect
that the Corporation was well aware about the decision of
the First Appeallate Court. It is incorrect that the
 Corporation has intentionally and willfully not filed the
appeal in time. It is incorrect that there is delay and
latches on the part of the Corporation.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1684 of 2022 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Vikas Chauhan, Advocate,
 for the applicant. Without Oath
 21.03.2024
 I close the evidence since the list of witnesses
is exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1714 of 2022 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Vikas Chauhan, Advocate,
 for the applicant. Without Oath
 21.03.2024
 I close the evidence since the list of witnesses
is exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1684 of 2022 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for
 the respondent. Without Oath
 21.03.2024
 The respondent does not want to lead any
evidence. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1714 of 2022 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for
 the respondent. Without Oath
 21.03.2024
 The respondent does not want to lead any
evidence. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1684 of 2022 in RSA

21.03.2024 Present:- 22.03.2024 Present:- Accordingly, the case was taken up
 today. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that the remaining plaintiffs witness have to come
 from Pathankot and they have not come today.
 Learned vice counsel seeks adjournment for today. Let the remaining plaintiffs witnesses be
 produced on self responsibility for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 26th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1315 of 2022 in RSA No. 104 of 2021

 AW-1 Statement of Ms. Parul Kapoor, Civil Ahlmad,
 office of Civil Judge Senior Division, Court
 No.1, Paonta, Sahib, District Sirmaur,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 26.03.2024
 Stated that I have brought the original
summoned record. The record pertains to the application
under Order 39 Rule 2-A, of CPC . The said application
has been filed by Mohinder Singh against Shri Baksheesh
Singh S/o Shri Tara Singh Harmail Singh, Baldev Singh,
Shamsher Singh all sons of Shri Baksheesh Singh. The
said application was registered as C.M.A. No. 50/6/2015
on 20.03.2015. The CIS Number of the said CMA is
72/2015. Ex. AW-1/A, is true and correct as per the
original record. The reply to the said CMA is Ex.AW-
1/B, which is true and correct as per the original record.
The said CMA has been decided by the Ld. Senior Civil
Judge, Court No.1, Paonta Sahib, on 31.08.2023 (original
seen and returned). xxx xxx xxx Mr. Atul G. Sood, Advocate for
 the respondents. It is correct that as per record the above said
CMA has been dismissed vide order dated 31.08.2023.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1315 of 2022 in RSA No. 104 of 2021

 AW-2 Statement of Additional SHO Shri Jeet Ram,
 Police Station Puruwala, District Sirmour,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 26.03.2024
 Stated that I have brought the original
summoned record. Ex. AW-2/A, is true and correct as
per the original record. The GD entry No. 17, dated
18.04.2021 (Ex.AW-2/A), was made by Shri Mohinder
Singh on 18.04.2021. There is no record in the Police
Station Puruwala regarding any application made by the
applicant (Mohinder Singh) on 01.05.2022. On the
complaint of the applicant the investigation was made by
the police for which GD No. 17 dated 18.04.2021, was
entered. Applicant Mohinder Singh again made a
complaint for which GD entry No.14, dated 20.08.2023,
was entered at Police Station Puruwala. Head Constable
Ravinder Kumar went to the spot for investigation
regarding GD entry No. 14, dated 20.08.2023 and
thereafter made a reference of the conclusion of
investigation in GD entry No. 14, dated 20.08.2023. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Atul G. Sood, Advocate for
 the respondents. The investigation pertaining to GD entry No.
17 dated 18.04.2021, was conducted by ASI Inder Singh.
I have never visited the spot and carried any investigation
 personally. Since I have never visited the spot, therefore, I
cannot say whether any construction was carried out or not
 CMP(M) No. 1315 of 2022 in RSA No. 104 of 2021

on the spot. It is correct that record pertaining to GD entry
No. 14, dated 20.08.2023, was not summoned for today.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1315 of 2022 in RSA No. 104 of 2021

26.03.2024 Present:- 27.03.2024 Present:- R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 3780 of 2024 in FAO (FC) No. 24 of 2023

 Statement of Smt. Bindiya Bagga, D/o Shri
 Rajinder Pal Verma, aged 46 years, R/o Partap
 Kali, Ward No. 5, House No. 153, Hamirpur,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.03.2024
 Stated that I have entered into compromise with
Smt. Sanjeev Bagga and as per the compromise I have
received Rs.15,00,000/- (Rs. Fifteen lacs only) as full and
final amount from Shri Sanjeev Bagga. In view of the
compromise arrived at between us, we have also agreed to
take the divorce from each other in accordance with law. I
have entered into the compromise/settlement without any
coercion, threat or undue influence. I have appended my
signature at my own volition on the compromise dated
11.11.2023 (Annexure A-1, annexed with the application).
In terms of the settlement arrived at between us, the
present appeal may be decided. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 3780 of 2024 in FAO (FC) No. 24 of 2023

27.03.2024 Present:- 28.03.2024 Present:- Let the verification of the said Bank Guarantee
 be made from the concerned Bank and thereafter the
 matter be listed again for further order. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 28th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

 AW-1 Statement of Shri Raj Kumar S/o Shri Ishwar
 Dass, aged about 39 years, R/o Village
 Padyarkahar, Tehsil Palampur, District Kangra,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 28.03.2024
 Stated that Shri Joginder Pal had filed a Civil
Suit No.75/01/2011 against me for the recovery of amount
which has been dismissed by the trial Court on
13.07.2018. Thereafter, Joginder Pal had filed an appeal
bearing No. 84-13 of 2018, before the First Appellate
Court and the same was allowed by the first Appellate
Court on 22.11.2019. Thereafter, I contacted Shri Gulzar
Rathore, Advocate, in the High Court for filing the appeal
on 02.01.2020. My Advocate asked me to come to Shimla
in the month of March, 2020. When in the month of
March 2020 I visited Shimla then I came to know that Shri
Gulzar Rathore, Advocate is not well and he is not coming
to his Chambers or Court. Thereafter I went back to my
village. Thereafter, due to COVI19 pandemic in the moth
of March, 2020, I could not come to Shimla due to the
restrictions. Thereafter, I again visited Shimla in the
month of March, 2021, and inquired about Shri Gulzar
Rathore Advocate then I came to know from his Chamber
Mate/colleague that Shri Gulzar Rathore, Advocate had
expired. In between March, 2020 to March 2021, I
telephonically tried to contact Shri Gulzar Rathore,
 Advocate he was not picking up the phone. However, I
talk to Shri Sunil, Advocate who was working with Shri

 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

Gulzar Rathore. I inquired about my file from Shri Sunil
but my file could not be traced in the office of Shri Gulzar
Rathore. Thereafter, I again applied for the certified
copies of the judgments of the trial and the first appellate
Court. On receiving the certified copies of the judgments
of the Courts below, I again contact the present Advocate
at Shimla and he filed the appeal in the Hon'ble High
Court on 22.09.2022. The delay, if any, is neither
intentional nor willful but due to the aforesaid reasons. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Surinder Saklani,
 Advocate for the respondents. After the decision of the first appellant Court at
Ghumarwin my Advocate applied for the certified copy of
the judgment. I do not remember when the same was
applied by my counsel at Ghumarwin. My counsel at
Ghumarwin handed over me the copy of the judgment of
the first appellant Court on 01.01.2020. I handed over the
entire case file to Shri Gulzar Rathore, Advocate on
02.01.2020. Self stated that Shri Gulzar Rathore,
Advocate advised me to come in the month of March,
2020. I am not aware about the limitation period of the
appeal in the High Court. I did not inquire from my
Advocate regarding the limitation period for filing of the
appeal in the High Court. The COVID19 restrictions were
 laid by the Government in the year 2021. I do not know
that during COVID restrictions the Courts were still
functioning. Self stated that I visited during COVID
period also. I do not know that Shri Joginder Pal had filed
the Execution Petition before the trial Court. It is correct
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

that in the Execution Petition my property has been
ordered to be attached by the Court. I did not appear
before the trial Court in that Execution Petition. Again
stated that whenever the Execution Petition was listed
before the Court I use visit the Court on that day. I do not
know that my Advocate had filed an application for setting
aside the ex-parte order in the Execution Petition. It is
correct that I use to visit Ghumarwin Court on the date
whenever the Execution Petition is listed in the Court. It
is incorrect that I have intentionally not filed the appeal in
the High Court well in time. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th March, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

28.03.2024 Present:- As per the death certificate Shri Ram Krishan, had died
on 09.04.2021. The death certificate has been produced
in the Gram Panchayat Officer by the LRs of deceased
Ram Krishan. The death certificate has been issued by
BMO CH Bhoranj, District Hamirpur, which is Ex. AW-
1/A. I am working as Panchayat Secretary in Gram
Panchayt Jahu since 2016. The Panchayat Secretaries of
the Gram Panchayat in the State of Himachal Pradesh
remained on strike from 29th July, 2023 to 10th September,
2023. I was also part of the strike during that period. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Athrav Sharma, Advocate
 for the respondents. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

 AW-2 Statement of Dr. Prithi Chaudhary, aged about
 38 years, CH Bhoranj, District Hamirpur,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 01.04.2024
 Stated that I am working as Medical Officer at
CH Bhoranj, since January, 2014. I have brought the
medical record pertaining to Shri Ram Krishan. As per
the record Shri Ram Krishan S/o Late Shri Ghanaiya was
admitted at CH Bhoranj on 09.04.2021 at 9.30 p.m., and
within fifteen minutes he stopped breathing and died. I
personally attended him at CH Bhoranj, when he was
brought to the hospital. Death certificate Ex. AW-1/ A,
was issued by the Block Development Officer Bhoranj,
since the death of the patient Ram Krishan had occurred in
the hospital. xxx xxx xxx Mr. Athrav Sharma, Advocate
 for the respondents. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

02.04.2024 Present:- 03.04.2024
 Stated that the Arbitrator had passed the award
on 11.11.2022 and later the same was amended by the
Arbitrator on 26.11.2022 and the copy of amended award
was received in my office on 03.12.2022. The award was
placed before BOD for approval as to whether the same
was required to be challenged or to be accepted. On
03.03.2023, the approval of the BOD regarding
challenging of the said award was received in my office.
Thereafter, on 09.03.2023, the HPSEBL filed the
objections before the Hon'ble High Court against the
award. In the meanwhile, we tried to contact our legal
counsel in the High Court but due to the prevailing winter
vacation at that relevant time we could not contact him.
The delay, if any, is neither intentional nor willful but due
to the aforementioned reasons. xxx xxx xxx Shri J.S. Bhogal, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Satish Sharma,
 Advocate, for respondent. It is correct in my office diary and dispatch
Register is maintained properly. It is incorrect that
whenever any communication or post is received in the
 office it is firstly kept as fresh receipt after the perusal of
the officer. Self stated that whenever, any communication

 OMP No. 39 of 2023 in Arb. Case

is received in the office firstly it is diarized in the diary
and dispatch register and thereafter it is put before the
concerned officer. I do not remember the actual date
when the award of the Arbitrator was received in my
office. It is incorrect that the award of the Arbitrator was
received in my office on 29.11.2022. I am deposing
today on the basis of office record. I have brought the
official record pertaining to this case today. As per record
my office has received the copy of the award of the
Arbitrator on 03.12.2022. I do not remember the exact
date on which the award was sent to BOD for approval. It
is correct that the communication regarding sending of the
award for approval of BOD is also maintained in our
office record. It is correct that the record/communication
regarding receiving of the approval of BOD is also
maintained in our office. The then Executive Engineer of
my office contacted the counsel at High Court after
receiving of the approval of BOD. I have given verbal
instruction to the then Executive Engineer to contact the
counsel at High Court for assailing the award. I
personally don't know that our counsel at High Court was
available on phone. It is incorrect that I am deposing
false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP No. 40 of 2023 in Arb. Case

 AW-1 Statement of Shri Ajay Gautam, S/o Late Shri
 R.K. Gautam, aged about 52 years, presently
 working as Chief Engineer, HPSEBL, North
 Zone, Dharamshala, District Kangra, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 03.04.2024
 Stated that the Arbitrator had passed the award
on 03.12.2022 and the award was placed before BOD for
approval as to whether the same was required to be
challenged or to be accepted. On 22.12.2022, the approval
of the BOD regarding challenging of the said award was
received in my office. Thereafter, on 22.03.2023, the
HPSEBL filed the objections before the Hon'ble High
Court against the award. In the meanwhile, we tried to
contact our legal counsel in the High Court but due to the
prevailing winter vacation at that relevant time we could
not contact him. The delay, if any, is neither intentional
nor willful but due to the aforementioned reasons. xxx xxx xxx Shri J.S. Bhogal, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Satish Sharma,
 Advocate, for respondent. It is correct in my office diary and dispatch
Register is maintained properly. It is incorrect that
whenever any communication or post is received in the
office it is firstly kept as fresh receipt after the perusal of
the officer. Self stated that whenever, any communication
is received in the office firstly it is diarized in the diary
 and dispatch register and thereafter it is put before the
concerned officer. I do not remember the actual date

 OMP No. 40 of 2023 in Arb. Case

when the award of the Arbitrator was received in my
office. I am deposing today on the basis of office record.
I have brought the official record pertaining to this case
today. As per record my office has received the copy of
the award of the Arbitrator on 03.12.2022. I do not
remember the exact date on which the award was sent to
BOD for approval. It is correct that the communication
regarding sending of the award for approval of BOD is
also maintained in our office record. It is correct that the
record/communication regarding receiving of the approval
of BOD is also maintained in our office. The then
Executive Engineer of my office contacted the counsel at
High Court after receiving of the approval of BOD. I have
given verbal instruction to the then Executive Engineer to
contact the counsel at High Court for assailing the award.
I personally don't know that our counsel at High Court
was available on phone. It is incorrect that I am deposing
false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP No. 40 of 2023 in Arb. Case

 AW-1 Statement of Shri Dhananjay Sharma,
 Advocate, for the applicant. Without Oath
 03.04.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant since the list of witness has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP No. 39 of 2023 in Arb. Case

 AW-1 Statement of Shri Dhananjay Sharma,
 Advocate, for the applicant. Without Oath
 03.04.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant since the list of witness has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP No. 39 of 2023 in Arb. Case

03.04.2024 Present:- 04.04.2024
 Stated that I have filed an appeal in the Hon'ble
 High Court against the order dated 8.6.2016 passed by the
 First Appellate Court, Kangra. In that case vide order
 dated 17.4.2017 the Hon'ble Court has directed the parties
 not to change the nature of the suit land and not to create
 any encumbrance over the suit land till the final disposal
 of the appeal. The Khasra No. of the suit land is 43 and 44. I have constructed toilet and bathroom on Khasra No.
 42 and I have not raised any construction over the suit
 land having Khasra Nos. 43 and 44. I am owner in
 possession of the land comprising in Khasra Nos. 40,41
 and 42. The land in dispute having Khasra Nos. 43 and 44
 is adjacent to my land comprised in Khasra Nos. 40,41
 and 42. I have not get my land demarcated any point of
 time self stated that all settlement operations had taken
 place in my presence, therefore, I am well aware about my
 land. I have not disobeyed the orders of the Hon'ble
 Court as I have raised the construction in my own land. I
 have made an application for demarcation before the
 Revenue Authorities but the respondent Suram Chand did
 not allow the Revenue Authorities to demarcate the land. xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood Advocate, for
 respondent. It is correct that my father Sh. Madan Lal is
recorded as owner in possession of the Khasra Nos 40,41
and 42 in the Revenue Record. It is correct that the
Courts' below have passed decree against me pertaining to
Khasra No. 44/1 self stated that being aggrieved by the
said decision I have assailed that decisions before Hon'ble
High court. Self stated that I used to cultivate Kharsa No.
44/1 also. It is correct that on 14 th November 2021, I
along with Parveen Kumar excavated the land with JCB
self stated that I have excavated the land which is Khasra
No. 42. I have not applied for the demarcation of the land
before raising any construction. It is incorrect that when I
was digging the land at that time respondent Suram Chand
requested me not to dig the land. Self stated that after the
digging the land Suram Chand raised the objection. I do
not know Suram Chand made complaints against me
before Panchyat and Police Authority. I do not know that
in my appeal the Court had given the direction to the
Police authorities to visit the spot and stop the
construction. Self stated that I got a telephonic information
that they are visiting the spot on 16.04.2023. I do not
know the location of photographs marked F-1,F-4,F-6 and
mark-B. However, photographs marked F-5 and mark-A
pertains to Khasra No. 42. I do not know subsequently
vide the orders dated 17.3.2022 by the Hon'ble High
Court the police along with the Revenue Authorities
visited the spot and conducted the spot inspection as well
as the land. I did not receive any notice from police or
 Revenue Authority for remaining present on the spot on
14.12.2021. I was not present on the spot on 14.12.2021
since I was not aware about the visiting of the Revenue
Authorities along with Police Authority. It is correct that
Ex.AW1/A bears my signatures in red circle- A. Self
stated that the police officials took my signature on the
said document Ex. AW1/A at police post Nagrota Suria. It
is correct that on 14.12.2021 the construction apparent in
photograph mark-A was incomplete. Now, I have laid the
lintel on the structure raised by me in Khasra No.42. I do
not know at the time of visiting of Police authorities or
Revenue Sh. Ashwani Kumar was also present on the spot
and he helped the revenue authority to demark the land. I
have not placed on record any document from which could
be inferred that the respondent Suram Chand is not
allowing demarcation on the land. Self stated that I have
given the said documents to my Counsel. It is incorrect
that Panchyat Pardhan also visited the spot and advised me
to stop the construction. It is incorrect that I am deposing
false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th April, 2024
 (gaurav)
 CMP No. 13640 in RSA NO.481 of 2016

 Statement of Shri Parav Sharma, Advocate for
 the appellant-respondent
 Without Oath
 04.04.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine Sh. Ashwani
Kumar being repetitive in nature and give him up. I also close the
evidence on the behalf of respondent since the list of witnesses has
been exhausted. Mr. Parav Sharma learned counsel for the
 appellant/non applicant. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate for applicant/
 respondent No.1

 Statement of Shri Subash Chand is recorded as
 RW-3. Learned counsel for the non-applicant vide
 his separate statement has given up the witness Sh.
 Ashwani Kumar and close the evidence on behalf of
 respondent. Since, the evidence on behalf of the parties is
 complete, therefore, the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. . Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 4th April, 2024
 (gaurav)
 CMP No. 10773 of 2022 in RSA No. 633 of 2005
21.03.2024 Present:- Shri Tarun Bragta, Advocate, vice Shri Ajay
 Sharma, Advocate, for the defendants No. 3 to 6. Defendant No.7 already ex-parte. The plaintiff was required to be produced on self
 responsibility today for his evidence. However,
 learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that he is not
 present today due to some health problem. No medical
 prescription or any other certificate has been placed on
 record by the learned vice counsel for the plaintiff. Two opportunities have already been granted for
 the plaintiff's evidence but he did not put appearance
 for adducing his evidence. Accordingly, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 9th April, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 PW-4 Statement of Shri Subhash Chauhan, S/o Late
 Shri Balak Ram Chauhan, aged about 45
 years, R/o Village Pajol, P.O Devgarh, Tehsil
 Kotkhai, District Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 19.04.2024
 Stated that I am dealing in fruit business since
 2016-2017. The defendants are known to me from the
 last 10 years since they also deal in the fruit and vegetable
 business. I have forwarded the consignment of my apple
 crop to the defendants from 14.08.2018 to 06.10.2018
 through transporter Shri Deepak Saini. Shri Deepak
 Saini is owner of Vishal Haryana Freight Carrier. The
 consignment was used to be initiated from Parwanoo and
 the same was sent to the different locations of the
 defendant-company through bilty issued by the
 transporter. I have forwarded the apple crop to the
 defendant-company amounting to Rs. 4,30,07,201/- (Rs.
 Four crore thirty lacs seven thousand and two hundred one
 only). Out of the total above stated amount the defendant
 company had paid me an amount of Rs.2,49,50,000/-
 through Bank transaction, copy of the Bank Statement is
 Ex. PW-2/A and the balance amount of Rs.1,80,57,201 is
 still outstanding. Whatever consignment was sent by me
 to the defendant-company, I have maintained the accounts
 for that. The daily business register maintained by me is
 Ex. PW-4/A (79 leaves). I use to forward the daily
 consignment bills to the defendant No.2 through
whatsapp. The whatsapp No. of defendant No.2 is 98100- COMS No. 13 of 2019 58021. Defendant No.2 used to respond my whatsapp
message and used to send the details of the daily business
transaction done by him to me. The details of the
whatsapp chat is Ex.PW-4/B (41 leaves). Objected to on
the mode of proof. Since the outstanding payment was not
paid by the defendants then I personally met three-four
times with defendant No.2 but he did not pay any heed
regarding payment of the outstanding amount. However,
offered me to settle the case either by going to the Court
or accept only 20 to 30% amount of the outstanding
payment or to use the mussel power. Therefore, I
preferred to come to the Court for my grievances against
defendants. Before I started to conduct the business with
the defendant, the defendant No.2 alongwith his son Shri
Deepak (son of defendant No.2) and Shri Dheeraj (nephew
of defendant No.2) assured me that I will never face any
problem in the business or regarding any payment. I have
also made a complaint to Chairman APMC, Azadpur
Delhi which is Ex. PW-1/A & Ex. PW-1/B. I could not
pursue the above said complaints at Delhi due to
CORONA pandemic at that time. Since the defendants
have not paid my outstanding amount till date for which I
am entitled for. xxx xxx xxx Shri Ravinder Malik Advocate,
 for defendants. I am not a orchardist, I am working as
forwarding agent. I am dealing with the defendant-
company since 2016-2017. I met defendant No.2 at
Chandigarh at Sector-26, since he used to work at COMS No. 13 of 2019 Chandigarh. Shri Bhagwan Dass is having two-three
companies in the name of BXN and DW International. I
do not know the other companies owned by defendant
No.2. The defendant No.1 is a proprietor ship firm.
Again stated that I do not properly know about the status
of the defendant No.1 whether it is a company or
proprietor ship firm. The orders were placed by the
defendants through phone. Defendant No.2 used to place
the order through telephonic calls. No written order in
the form of whatsapp message or text message were
placed by the defendants. The rate of the consignment
was negotiated through telephonic call and the idea of the
rate of consignment was used to be proposed by
defendant No.2. The bills Ex.PW4/A ( leaves) were
prepared by the person deputed by defendant No.2. It is
correct that I have not prepared any of the above said bills.
It is correct that the above said bills do not bear my
signature. Ex. PW4/B are the printouts of the whatsapp
message taken out from whatsapp web. I have taken the
printouts of Ex. PW4/B in a cyber café. I do not
remember the name of that cyber café. I have not
 annexed any certificate under Section 65 B regarding the
authenticity of the printouts of the bills Ex. PW4/B. It is
wrong to suggest that the bills Ex. PW4/B are forged and
fabricated. Shri Deepak Saini (transporter) is known to
me from the last 5-6 years. Whenever the consignment
was sent through transport I did not use to collect the
builties. Self stated that the bilties of the consignment COMS No. 13 of 2019 were collected by me from the transporter collectively at
the end of the season. Transporter Deepak Saini was also
known to defendant No.2. It is correct that the main office
of defendant No.2 is/was at Azadpur Mandi, Delhi. I
have visited his office at Azadpur Mandi, Delhi only when
I did not receive the outstanding amount of my
consignment. It is correct that there is signature of Shri
Bhagwan Dass, Deepak and Dheeraj on the Bilties Mark
P-1 to P-83. I do not know whenever any consignment is
sent any bill/invoice is generated/prepared or not. Self
stated that I use to do the business with the defendants on
mutual faith and I have sent the bills through whatsapp to
him which has been annexed with my suit. The
defendants did not use to send any confirmation regarding
arrival of the consignment however, whenever, there was
any complaint regarding the consigned material only then
they use to talk to me. It is incorrect that the defendant
did not send any confirmation in writing because I never
sent any material/consignment to him. I use to purchase
the apple crop from Parwanoon Mandi for the
 consignment. Self stated that I have made the payments to
the persons through their Bank Accounts from whom I had
purchased the apple crop for consigning the same. It is
correct that I have not annexed any proof regarding the
payments which I had made to the Parwanoo Mandi
merchants. I have personal knowledge that BXN and DW
International are the companies owned by defendant No.2.
It is incorrect that the above said companies are not owned COMS No. 13 of 2019 by defendant No.2. I use to deliver the consignments to
the employees of the defendant No.2 at Parwanoo Mandi
and they use to send the consignment to different locations
of the defendant No.1-company. It is incorrect that the
employees of the defendant use to engage the services of
the transporter. Self stated that I also use to hire the
services of transporter. It is correct that whenever the
transporter use to take the material from the Market
Committee a gate pass/receipt is generated and also the
gate pass is generated at the place of destination. I do not
know that the gate passes are generated all over India
wherever the transporters delivers the consignments. It is
wrong to suggest that I have not sent any consignments to
the defendants. It is incorrect that Shri Bhagwan Dass
defendant No.2 had given an amount of Rs.2,50,10,000/-
to me on account of loan taken by me from him. It is
correct that the date and time on the printouts of the bills
Ex. PW4/B, is same. Self stated that all the printouts have
been taken on the same day. I did not use to maintained
 any ledger. I have not placed on record the original
bilties. Self stated that the original bilties have already
been taken by the employees of the defendants to Delhi. It
is wrong to suggest that no such bilties have been taken by
the defendants. I did not pursue the complaint Ex.PW1/A
and Ex. PW1/B, as I could not go to Delhi. It is incorrect
that I did not pursue the above said complaints since they
are false complaints against the defendants. It is wrong to
suggest that I have filed the present suit falsely against the COMS No. 13 of 2019 defendants in order to evade my liability of my loan,
which had been taken by me from the defendants. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false. It is incorrect that there
is no outstanding amount due to me from the defendants
or any interest thereupon. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th April, 2024
 (gaurav) COMS No. 13 of 2019 Statement of Shri Subhash Chauhan (Plaintiff),
 S/o Late Shri Balak Ram Chauhan, aged about
 45 years, R/o Village Pajol, P.O Devgarh,
 Tehsil Kotkhai, District Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 19.04.2024
 Stated that I close the plaintiff's evidence since
the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th April, 2024
 (gaurav) COMS No. 13 of 2019 19.04.2024 Present:- As per the office report, verification letter of
 Bank Guarantee has been received from the State Bank of
 India, Commercial Branch, Sector-17B, Chandigarh.
 However, as per order dated 11.01.2024, passed by the
 Hon'ble Court, the respondents have to specifically give the
 undertaking that in case non-applicant-petitioner succeed in
 the matter, the applicant-respondent shall deposit the amount
 released in his favour alongwith interest accrued thereon, but
 the undertaking as directed by the Hon'ble Court has not
 been furnished by the respondents. Learned vice counsel for the respondents seeks time
 for doing the needful. Accordingly, the case be listed after the above said
 undertaking will be furnished by the respondents. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 22nd April, 2022
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2011 22.04.2023 Present:- RW-1/A, (original seen and returned), since he is more
than 80 years old and is unable to travel due to his ill
health. I am fully conversant with the entire facts of the
present case. My father Shri Devi Singh has filed an
appeal in this High Court. Vide order dated 17.04.2017,
the Hon'ble Court has directed the parties to this lis to
maintain status quo qua nature and possession of the suit
land and vide order dated 11.07.2017, the said order was
made absolute by the Hon'ble Court. The construction
had been raised on the disputed land by my father in
August 2008 by engaging a contractor namely Shri Netar
Singh. My father had raised twelve pillars and laid a lintel
over the said pillars and further raised those twelve pillars
on the first floor in the year 2008. There are three shops
covered with shutter in the ground floor. No other
construction has been raised by us after the year 2008.
My father has not breached the order of the Hon'ble High
Court and we have not raised any further construction
 after the passing of the above said orders by the Hon'ble
Court. CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 xxx xxx xxx Shri Roop Lal Chaudhary,
 Advocate for applicant/respondent No.4

 It is correct that photographs Mark A-1 and
A-2 are the shops including house of my father as visible
in the photographs. Self stated that the house has been
constructed by my forefathers in the year 1987, which is
upon Khasra No. 45. It is correct that the construction
shown in the photographs Mark A-1 and A-2, were raised
by my father prior to the passing of the status quo order by
this Hon'ble Court. It is correct that the shops apparent in
photograph Mark A-5, belongs to my father. It is correct
that the pillars on the first floor are also apparent on the
photograph Mark A-5. It is incorrect that the pillars on the
first floor has been raised by us in the month of October,
2022. It is incorrect that in the old constriction there were
no pillars on the first floor. It is incorrect that my father
has intentionally disobeyed the status quo order passed by
the High Court. I do not know that Shri Ashok Kumar,
respondent No.4 had made a police complaint in the year
2022, regarding the illegal construction raised by my
father in that year. It is incorrect that after the complaint
of Shri Ashok Kumar police visited the spot and requested
my father not to raise the further construction on the first
floor. It is incorrect that I am deposing false.
 R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

RW-2 Statement of Shri Raj Kumar, S/o Late Shri
 Hadu Ram, aged 45 years Village Bohi, P.O.
 Sehali, Tehsil Sadar, District Mandi, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 24.04.2024
 I am meson by occupation. I have worked as
meson in the year 2008 for raising the construction of
non-applicant shops. I was engaged as Meson through
contractor Shri Netar Singh. We have raised twelve
pillars in the ground floor and laid one lintel and
thereafter raised further twelve on the first floor at that
time. Thereafter no construction has been raised by Shri
Devi Ram as I use to pass by the spot and as of date no
further construction has been raised by Shri Devi Singh. xxx xxx xxx Shri Roop Lal Chaudhary,
 Advocate for applicant/respondent No.4

 It is correct that the construction apparent on
photographs Mark-3 and Mark-4 is the same which was
raised by me as Meson. It is incorrect that no other
construction was raised by me thereafter. Self stated that I
have raised twelve pillars on the said construction
thereafter in the year 2008. I do not know after the stay
order from the High Court Shri Devi Singh appellant/non-
applicant has raised three pillars in October 2022 by
breaching the order of the Hon'ble High Court. I have
 seen three pillars as visible in photograph Mark-5, as the
same has been raised by me in the year 2008. It is
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

incorrect that the three pillars in the photograph Mark-5
were raised by the appellant in October, 2022. My house
is about 10-12 Kms., away from the house of Shri Devi
Ram appellant. It is incorrect that I am deposing false
today that the three pillars as visible in photographs
Mark-5 had been raised by me in the year 2008. I do not
know that Shri Ashok Kumar, respondent No.4 had made
a complaint to the police in October, 2022. It is incorrect
that Shri Devi Ram appellant is in my relation. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false since I am in relation to
him. It is incorrect that son of Devi Ram has brought me
to Shimla for adducing evidence. Self stated that I have
received the Court summon, however, I have to come
alongwith him. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

RW-3 Statement of Shri Suresh Kumar, S/o Shri
 Gokal Chand, aged 52 years Muhalla
 Chhadyara, Village Pulgharat, P.O. Gutkar,
 Tehsil Sadar, District Mandi, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 24.04.2024
 Appellant Devi Singh is my neighbor and we
share the boundaries of our land. Shri Devi Singh had
raised three shops opposite to my shops. Shri Devi
Singh had constructed the shops and pillars in the first
floor in the year 2008. After 2008, Shri Devi Singh did
not raise any construction over the said land or the already
raised construction. xxx xxx xxx Shri Roop Lal Chaudhary,
 Advocate for applicant/respondent No.4

 Shri Devi Singh and Ms. Tara Devi are real
brother and sister and both are my neighbors. Now Ms.
Tara Devi has expired. It is correct that the shops visible
in photographs Mark A-1 and A-2 belongs to Shri Devi
Singh. It is correct that there is no pillars in the
photographs Mark A-1 and A-2. Self stated that there are
pillars on the said shop. I do not know how the
photographer has clicked the photographs by disappearing
the pillars in the photographs. It is incorrect that the three
pillars as apparent in photograph Mark-5 has been raised
by Shri Devi Ram in the year October, 2022. It is
 incorrect that in October, 2022, Shri Ashok Kumar
requested Shri Devi Singh not to raise any further
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

construction. It is incorrect that Shri Ashok Kumar made
a complaint to the police in October, 2022 and thereafter
the police visited the spot. Self stated that police never
visited the spot in my presence. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

23.04.2023 Present:- 24.04.2024
 Stated that I am working as Single Window
Operator, Punjab National Bank Parwanoo for the last one
year. I have brought the requisitioned record, which has
been handed over to me by the Manager of the Bank. I am
not aware whether the record sent by the Manager is
original or not. I have come to the Court today on the
direction of the Manager. Since the witness is not aware about the
authenticity of the documents brought by him today,
therefore, learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that he
be discharged and the concerned person be summoned. Accordingly, the witness is discharged for
today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th April, 2024 Civil Suit No. 15 of 2020 24.04.2023 Present:- 25.04.2024 Present:- xxx xxx xxx Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate. My house is about 500 mtrs. away from Usaka
Hydro Project. I do not know the Khasra numbers from
where the road lead to Usaka Hydro Power Project from
main road. The main road leads from Kullu to Lag valley.
I have received the summons from the Court for my
appearance in the Court today for adducing evidence.
Usaka Hydro Project had issued me appointment letter for
my employment. I have not brought the appointment
letter today, however, identity card issued by the said
Project is with me today, which is shown and returned. It
is correct that I have nothing to do with Gaur Hydro
Power Project. It is incorrect that there is no road to the
 Usaka Hydro Project since 2011 from the main road. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false today on the asking of
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

the management of the Usaka Hydro Power Project,
Kullu, H.P.
 xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate for
 non-applicant-appellants. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

RW-2 Statement of Shri Guddu Ram, S/o Shri Surat
 Ram, aged 34 years, R/o Village Summa, P.O.
 Dugilag, Tehsil & District Kullu, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 29.04.2024

 Stated that I am Driver by occupation and
employed in Usaka Hydro Power Project. I have seen the
road which leads to Usaka Hydro Project since my joining
in the said Project i.e. 2011. I am plying the vehicle till
date on that road. xxx xxx xxx Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate. The above said road leads from Power House
to the site where there is outlet of the water from the
Power Project. It is correct that there is Khad in between
the Power House and the road. I do not know when the
Bridge apparent in photograph Mark A-4 was built. It is
correct that I have come to the Court today along with Shri
Jhabe Ram. It is correct that we were brought to the Court
today by Shri Varun General Manager of the Usaka Power
Project. I do not know the Khasra Numbers of the road,
which have been mentioned above by me. It is incorrect
that I am deposing false today on the asking of General
Manager of the Usaka Power Project. xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate for
 non-applicant-appellants. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

 Statement of Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for
 respondents No. 4 and 5. Without Oath
 29.04.2024
 Stated that I give up rest of the witnesses
mentioned in the list of witnesses being repetitive in
nature. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSa No. 4272 of 2013

25.04.2024 Present:- Shri Parmod Singh Thakur, Advocate, for the
 respondent. In compliance to the order dated 27.03.2024, the
 applicant-respondent has furnished the Bank Guarantee to the
 tune of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Rs. Fifteen lacs), which is shown to be
 valid upto 08.05.2025, duly issued by the State Bank of India,
 Sector-68, Mohali, Punjab. Let the verification be sought from the concerned
 Bank and thereafter the matter be again listed before the
 undersigned. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th April, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 30.04.2024
 Present: Shri Goldy Dhiman, Advocate, for the applicant- appellant

 Shri Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate, for the non-
 applicant-respondent. As per the previous order dated 06.03.2024, the
 applicant was required to be produced on self
 responsibility. However, learned counsel for the
 applicant-appellant submits that he could not come to the
 Court today due to his ill health. Order dated
 02.01.2024, further reveals that the applicant has taken
 adjournment on account of the winter season. It appears that the applicant is intentionally
 and willing not coming to the Court on one pretext or the
 other for adducing his evidence. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant will be produced positively on the next date of
 hearing for adducing his evidence. Let the case be listed on 01.07.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th April, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Election Petition No. 1 of 2023
 30.04.2024
 Present: Shri R.K. Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Ms.
 Vidushi Sharma, Advocate, for the petitioner. Shri Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Shagun Sharma, Advocate for respondent No.1. Respondents No. 2 to 4 already ex-parte. Respondent No.5, already deleted vide order dated
 11.10.2023 of the Hon'ble Court. Admission and denial of the documents filed
 by respondent No.1, has been done by the petitioner. Learned Senior Counsel for respondent
 No.1, submits that the original counsel is out of station
 on account of his marriage and he seeks adjournment for
 today for admission and denial of the documents filed
 by the petitioner. Let the case be listed on 14.05.2024, for
 admission and denial of the documents filed by the
 petitioner. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th April, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 2 of 2020 01.05.2024
 Present: Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Romesh Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Digvijay Singh, Advocate, for the defendant No.1

 Defendant No.2 already ex-parte. Two witnesses Shri Vishal Sandhu,
 Manager Punjab National Bank Gagret, District Una and
 Shri Amit Verma, Manager State Bank of India, Branch
 Gagret, District Una, are present. Learned counsel for
 the plaintiff submits that these witnesses have not
 brought the entire requisitioned record, therefore, due to
 the non-availability of entire record they could not be
 examined. Learned counsel requested for discharge of
 these witnesses for today. Accordingly, the witnesses present today are
 discharged. Learned counsel further submits that he
 wants to bring on record certain documents and he will
 move the appropriate application in that regard. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court after filing the application by the plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st May, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 8 of 2018 PW-1 Statement of Shri Manoj Kumar Upreti, S/o
 Shri Mohan Chand Upreti, aged 59 years,
 presently posted as Director (Operation),
 H.P.S.E.B.L., Kumar House, Shimla, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 02.05.2024
 Stated that I am working with H.P.S.E.B.L.
since 1989. The present suit has been drafted and filed
under my instructions. I have been duly authorized by the
Board of Directors of HPSEBL to file and depose in the
present case. The authority letters is Ex. PW-1/A (seven
leaves). The plaintiff is a government company registered
under the Companies Act and is a distribution license
under the Electricity Act 2003 and is a license authorize to
operate and maintain a distribution system for supplying
electricity to the customers in the State of Himachal
Pradesh. The defendant No.1-Company applied for the
electricity connection in their favour vide application and
Agreement Form No. 1307 on 01.02.2006, Ex.PW-1/B
(three leaves). and on the application cum agreement of
the defendant No.1-company, the plaintiff vide order dated
20.12.2006 Ex. PW-1/C, release the service connection in
favour of defendant No.1. The defendant No.1 use to pay
the Electricity Bills regularly till April, 2014 but thereafter
started to make lapses in the payment of the Electricity
Bills. For the consumption of the Electricity Bill for the
month of April the bill was raised in the month of April by
 the plaintiff which is Ex.PW-1/D-1. But that the entire
Bill was not paid by the defendant No.1-company. The COMS No. 8 of 2018 plaintiff use to issue the bills for the subsequent months up
till 12.10.2015, to the defendant-company which are Ex.
PW-1/D-2, to Ex.PW-1/D-18. Due to the non-payment
of the arrears of the Electricity Bills by the defendant
No.1-company on 12.10.2015, the disconnection order
was issued and the Electricity Meter of the defendant
No.1-company was temporarily disconnected. The copy
of the disconnection order is Ex. PW-1/E. Subsequent to
the disconnection order Ex,.PW-1/E, the defendant No.1-
company deposited an amount of Rs. 50,00,000/- with the
plaintiff-company and the same adjusted qua the arrears of
the Electricity Bills of the defendant No.1-company.
Since the defendant No.1-company has not deposited the
entire arrears and recurring bills, therefore, permanent
disconnection order was passed on 12.04.2016, and the
supply of the defendant-company was disconnected w.e.f.
18.04.2016. The copy of permanent disconnection order
is Ex. PW-1/F. The recurring bills even after the
permanent disconnection were issued to the defendant
No.1-companhy, which are Ex.PW-1/G-1 to Ex.
PW-1/G-6. Since the subsequent bills were also not paid
by the defendant-company, therefore, the plaintiff adjusted
the security amount of Rs.60,00,000/- towards the arrears
of the electricity bills of the defendant-company. Even
after the adjustment of Rs. 60,00,000/- an amount of
 Rs.1,61,52,597/- remained outstanding. Due to the non-
payment of the outstanding amount the plaintiff was COMS No. 8 of 2018 constrained to file the present suit for the recovery of the
above said outstanding amount. xxx xxx xxx Shri Rahul Singh Verma,
 Advocate for the defendants No. 1,3 and 4. It is correct that the copy of the authority letter
Ex PW-1/A, is not a certified by any authority. Self stated
that the said letter is available on the website of HPSEBL.
The authority letter is issued in favour of an employee by
designation in general for all cases. The electricity bills
are calculated on the basis of tariff duly approved by the
H.P. State Electricity Regulatory Commission. I am not
aware that the defendant No.1-company had given one
application qua the correction of electricity bills because
the same were raised on the exaggerated amount. I am not
aware that the defendant No.1-company has gone into
liquidation and wound up. I am also not aware that due to
winding up proceeding of the drfendant No.1-company,
Vijay Bank ceased the entire property of the defendant
No.1-Company from 2018. It is incorrect that due to
permanent disconnection of the electricity connection of
the defendant company the production was completely
stopped in the defendant-company due to which the
company suffered huge monitory losses. It is incorrect that
the calculated outstanding amount is without any basis. It
 is incorrect that even after the adjustment of the security
amount, the defendant No.1-company use to pay the
outstanjding bills through RTGS/ NEFT. Self stated that
any amount which has been paid by the defendant No-1- COMS No. 8 of 2018 COMS No. 8 of 2018 company has duly been adjusted prior to the filing of the
present suit. It is incorrect that the amount claimed in the
present suit is wrong. I am not aware that even after the
permanent disconnection of electricity connection the
defendant No1-company vide letter dated 25.07.2016,
made a request to the plaintiff for allowing them to pay the
outstanding electricity dues in equal installments as well
as for the restoration of power supply. Self stated that till
the entire outstanding amount is paid, the electricity
connection could not be restored. The restoration of the
electricity connection is done as per the procedure laid
down by the plaintiff-company. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false. It is incorrect that the amount claimed by
the plaintiff is without any basis. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd May, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 8 of 2018 02.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Shri.
 Dhananjay Sharma and Shri Vivek Thakur,
 Advocates for the plaintiff. Shri Rahul Singh Verma, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 1,3 and 4. Defendants No. 2 and 5 already ex-parte. Power of Attorney on behalf of the plaintiff
 has been filed by Shri Dhananjai Sharma and Shri Vivek
 Thakur, Advocates, which is taken on record. Shri
 Manoj Kumar Upreti (Plaintiff) was produced on self
 responsibility today and is examined as PW-1. As per
 office report, list of witnesses has not been filed.
 Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks time for taking
 steps for examination of the other witnesses. Let the steps, if any, be taken within fifteen
 days, thereafter, the process be issued for the service of
 remaining PWs for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd May, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 6 of 2018 03.05.2024
 Present: Shri Varun Chauhan, vice counsel for the plaintiff. Ms. Urvashi Rajta, Advocate vice Shri Tara Singh
 Chauhan, Advocate for defendant No.1. None for defendant No.2

 Ms. Anjana learned vice counsel for defendant
 No.3. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
 submits that due to ill health, the plaintiff could not come
 to the Court for adducing his evidence. Learned vice
 counsel for the plaintiff has also placed on record the
 prescription slip, which is taken on record. Learned vice
 counsel for the plaintiff seeks adjournment for today.
 The adjournment sought on the said ground is allowed as
 not opposed. Let the plaintiff be produce on self
 responsibility on the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 PW-1 Statement of Shri P.S. Attli, aged 67 years,
 Superintending Engineer (Retd.) R/o House
 No. 4999, Sector 68, Pancham Society, Mohali,
 Punjab. On Oath
 06.05.2024
 Stated that I have retired as Superintending
Engineer from the HPSEBL, in June, 2014. The present
suit has been filed by me on behalf of the plaintiff-
company. I was duly authorized by the plaintiff-company,
vide Authority Letter Ex. PW-1/A (four leaves) to file the
present suit and vide Sales Manual instruction Ex. PW-
1/B, I was duly authorized by designation to sign attest
and authenticate the present plaint. I have also been duly
authorized by the Board of Directors vide office order
Ex.PW-1/C, to adduce evidence on behalf of the plaintiff-
company. At the time of the filing of the present Civil
Suit, I was posted as Superintending Engineer (Operation
Circle), Una District Una, Himachal Pradesh. The
plaintiff company is in distribution licensee under the Electricity Act 2003 and is a licensee authorized to operate
and maintain a distribution system for supplying
electricity to the consumers in the State of Himachal
Pradesh. The defendant-company had started its operation
at Industrial Unit at Village Tibbi, P.O. Kalaruhi, Tehsil
Amb, District Una and obtained electricity connection
from plaintiff-company to start its Industrial Unit after
 entering into the agreement with the plaintiff-company. In
February, 2010, the defendant-company started to make Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 defaults in the payments of the electricity bills,
consequently, the electricity supply of the defendant-
company was disconnected. Thereafter, on the request of
the defendant-company, vide letter dated 09.03.2011,
Mark `A', wrote a letter to the Chief Engineer
(Commercial) HPSEBL, for grant of permission for six
installments of outstanding amount of Rs.53,82,655/- of
the defendant-company. On the payment of the first
installments by the defendant-company, the electricity
connection was restored. The connected load of the
defendant-company was 5450 KW. Thereafter, the
defendant-company requested the Chief Engineer
(Commercial) HPSEBL to reduce the load from 5450 KW
to 50 KVA. Thereafter, on the request of the defendant-
company, the load of was reduced. Even after the
payment of first installment of the electricity bill the
defendant-company again made a default in the payments
of the electricity bills. Thereafter, the the plaintiff-
company decided to revoke the Bank Guarantee furnished
by the defendant-company. Thereafter, the defendant-
company preferred to assail the orders, of the Board
regarding revocation of the Bank Guarantee before the
District Consumer Forum, Una. The District Consumer
Forum Una granted the stay to the defendant-company.
 However, the Consumer complaint filed by the defendant-
company was ultimately dismissed. Accordingly, the
Bank Guarantee furnished by the defendant-company
was revoked by the defendant-company. Thereafter, the Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 defendant-company field another complaint before Forum
for Redressal of Grievances of HPSEBL Consumers
(FRGC) and in that complaint FRGC, directed the
plaintiff-company to restore the electricity connection of
the defendant-company subject to the payment of the
charges for the new connection as well as 15%
Infrastructure Development Charges (IDC) of the already
deposited IDC charges. The copy of the re-connection
order is Mark `B'. After the interim order of FRGC the
defendant-company deposited the amount as directed by
the FRGC. Thereafter, upto June 2013 the defendant-
company use to pay the electricity bills generated by the
plaintiff-company but thereafter, they again made a
default in the payment of electricity bills. The FRGC
decided the complaint of the defendant-company on
01.10.2013, the copy of the same is Ex.PW-1/D
( tenleaves). Thereafter, the Regulatory Electricity
Commission enhanced the charges of IDC, due to which
outstanding amount of the electricity was increased of the
defendant-company. After the final decision of FRGC,
the defendant-company requested the plaintiff-company
for permanent disconnection of their electricity
connection. On the request of defendant-company, the
 plaintiff permanently disconnected the electricity
connection on 01.10.2013. Due to the non-payment of the
outstanding amount i.e. Rs.2,40,74,338/- of the electricity
bills the plaintiff-company decided to file the present civil
suit, accordingly, the same was filed. xxx xxx xxx Shri Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior
 Advocate, with Shri Rajesh Kumar, Advocate
 for the defendants. I remain posted as Superintending Engineer,
Operation Circle HPSBL from 02.06.2014 to 30.06.2014.
It is correct that all the correspondences and deliberation
between the plaintiff and defendant-company were
conducted prior to my joining at Una. It is incorrect that I
did not have any authorization to file the present suit on
behalf of the plaintiff-company. It is correct that I have
not placed on record any authorization at the time of the
filing of present suit. It is incorrect that outstanding
energy charges were wrongly calculated and the same are
without any basis. I do not know that the defendant-
company made a request letter stating therein that the
calculation of the energy bill was wrong. It is correct that
as per FRGC order only 15% amount of the total IDC of
already deposited IDC were required to be deposited by
the defendant-company. I do not remember the amount of
the Bank Guarantee which have been revoked by the
plaintiff-company. I do not remember the date on which
the said Bank Guarantee was revoked. It is correct that
 the defendant-company requested for the reduction of
contract demand. It is incorrect that the reduction of
contract demand was made without there being any
change in connected load. I do not remember whether
the connected load was reduced or not. I do not know
that the defendant-company was entitled for an amount of
Rs.17,15,502/- as refund amount. I do not remember the Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 total IDC of the defendant-company. It is incorrect that
even after the permanent disconnection of the electricity
connection the bills were raised for the energy
consumption. Self stated that only outstanding amount
has been calculated along with the other charges for filing
of the present suit. It is correct that the calculation
pertaining to the outstanding amount of the energy charges
was not personally calculated by me. It is incorrect that
the present suit has been filed without any basis and the
defendant-company is liable to pay what has been claimed
in the present suit. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 06.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Tawarsu, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Rajesh Kumar, Advocate for the defendant. Statement of Shri P.S. Attli, is recorded as
 PW-1. Let the PWs mentioned at Sl. No. 2 and 3 be
 summoned for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 40 of 2022 07.05.2024
Present: Shri Balvinder Singh Ballu, Deputy Advocate
 General, for the petitioner. Shri Vikas Rajput, Advocate, vice Shri Arjun Lall,
 Advocate, for the respondent. As per the office report, application along with
 undertaking in the shape of affidavit of the respondent-
 applicant, valuation report of the property and the copies
 of Jamabandi for the years 2021-2022, duly issued on
 19.04.2024, has been filed by the respondent-applicant in
 compliance of the order dated 05.04.2024 of the Hon'ble
 Court as solvent security to the tune of Rs.75,00,000/-. The perusal of Jamabandi annexed with the
 application shows that the applicant-respondent (Yudhbir
 Singh) is one of the co-sharer in the property as
 mentioned in the Jamabandi and as per the valuation
 report furnished by the applicant, he is one of the co-
 sharer in the properties to the extant of 00-08-10 Bighas
 and the valuer has considered the said share of the land
 for the consideration evaluation of the said property. As
 per the evaluation report, the entire property/share in the
 land of the respondent is amounting to Rs.7,501,000/-. Learned vice counsel for the applicant has also
 furnished the non-encumbrance certificate duly issued by
 the Village Revenue Officer, whereby he has certified
 that the share of the applicant-respondent is free from all
 encumbrances. The certificate is taken on record. The respondent-applicant has undertook that he
 shall not sell, transfer, charge or encumber the above Arb. Case No. 40 of 2022 said property to anybody during the pendency of this
 case. Accordingly, the solvent security furnished by the
 respondent-applicant is accepted by me. Further, let the
 needful be done in accordance with the orders of the
 Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 28 of 2014 08.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Shivani Tegta, Advocate, vice Ms. Nishi Goel,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rohit Sharma, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the defendants. As per office report, the summons issued to DW-1
 and DW-2, are served. Shri Ashwini Kumar, Patwari,
 Patwar Circle Bhangrotu, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi
 and Shri Thakur Dass, Patwari, Patwar Circle Bagla,
 Tehsil Balh, District Mandi, H.P., are present. Ld. Deputy Advocate General submits that though
 the witnesses are present today but they have not brought
 the original record and due to non-availability of the
 original record, the documents could not be proved in
 accordance with law. Learned Deputy Advocate General
 prayed that the witnesses present today may be
 discharged so that they will bring the original record. The prayer of the learned Deputy Advocate
 General is not opposed by the opposing counsel. Accordingly, the witnesses present today are
 discharged. Let fresh summons be issued for the date to
 be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if
 any, be taken within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in
 08.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Shivani Tegta, Advocate, vice Ms. Nishi Goel,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Rohit Sharma, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the defendants. As per office report, the summons issued to DW-1
 and DW-2, are served. Shri Ashwini Kumar, Patwari,
 Patwar Circle Bhangrotu, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi
 and Shri Thakur Dass, Patwari, Patwar Circle Bagla,
 Tehsil Balh, District Mandi, H.P., are present. Ld. Deputy Advocate General submits that though
 the witnesses are present today but they have not brought
 the original record and due to non-availability of the
 original record, the documents could not be proved in
 accordance with law. Learned Deputy Advocate General
 prayed that the witnesses present today may be
 discharged so that they will bring the original record. The prayer of the learned Deputy Advocate
 General is not opposed by the opposing counsel. Accordingly, the witnesses present today are
 discharged. Let fresh summons be issued for the date to
 be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Steps, if
 any, be taken within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021
RW-1 Statement of Shri Akshay Kaundal, aged 27
 years presently posted as Patwari, Patwar
 Circle Baijnath, District Kangra, Himachal
 Pradesh
 On Oath
 09.05.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Patwari Patwar
Circle Baijnath, District Kangra, H.P., from July, 2022.
The disputed land is owned by the State of Himachal
Pradesh and adjacent to the said land there is Shiv Temple
in the town of Baijnath. The said Shiv Temple is time
immortal. From the last many years temple Committee
use to conduct langar outside the temple near to disputed
land. Since the land is owned by the State Government
but State is not interfering in the suit land in any manner
after passing of the interim order by the Hon'ble Court.
The applicant (Manohar Lal) has constructed a Shed on
the disputed land. The State Government has never
received any user charges from Shri Manohar Lal
(applicant). The temple committee use to receive
voluntarily donations and the receipt to that effect is duly
issued by the Committee. During the time of fare whoever
use to put temporary stall upon the Government land then
they will have to pay the user charges for that. The
respondents have never violated the order of the Hon'ble
Court. I am holding the charge of area where the suit land
is situated. All the affairs of Government are in my
knowledge. CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021

 xxx xxx Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate,
 for the applicant-petitioner. I am aware about the status quo order passed by
this Court in the present appeal. I am not aware about any
legal notice which was being served to the District
Collector, Kangra. It is correct that the photographs Mark
`A' and `B', is the land which is adjacent to the Shiv
Temple. The Shed which is apparent in the photograph
Mark `1A' is on Khasra No. 1988/100/3 and the Shed
apparent in the photograph Mark `B' is on Khasra
Number 1988/100/1. The Shed in photograph Mark `A',
is Kitchen of the Shiv Temple and the Shed in photograph
Mark `B', has been constructed by the applicant. It is
correct that the land which is shown in the photographs
Mark `A' and `B' is part of Khasra No. 1988/100. I am
not aware that the receipt Mark `M', pertains to the
donation slip to the Shiv Mandir Temple. It is incorrect
that the respondent has intentionally and willfully violated
the order of the Court by interfering the peaceful
possession of the applicant. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021
 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sahrma, Additional
 Advocate General, State of Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 09.05.2024
 I give up Shri Harish Kumar, Tehsildar
Bamson (Tauni Devi) and Shri Chuni Lal, Supervisor,
Shiv Temple Baijnath being repetitive in nature and close
the evidence on behalf of the respondents. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 251 of 2023 in RSA No. 196 of 2021
 09.05.2024
 Present: Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant. Shri Tejasvi Sahrma, Additional Advocate
 General, for the respondents. Statement of Shri Akshay Kaundal, is recorded as
 RW-1. Vide separate statement of the Ld. Additional
 Advocate General, he has given up the remaining
 witnesses and close the evidence on behalf of the
 respondents. Since the evidence is complete on behalf of the
 parties, accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 2831 of 2021 in RSA No. 511 of 2016
 09.05.2024
 Present: Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate, for the non- applicants-appellants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for applicants-
 respondents No. 1 and 2. None for the other respondents. Shri Kanshi Ram Thakur, is present today.
 Learned Senior Counsel for the applicants-respondents
 No. 1 and 2 is also present but learned vice counsel for
 the non-applicant submits that the Senior Counsel Shri
 Bhupinder Gupta, for the non-applicants-appellants is
 busy in Court. Learned Senior Counsel for the
 applicants submits that he is waiting for the last one hour
 and he has other cases in the court, therefore, he
 submitted that the matter may be adjourned due to the
 non-availability of the opposing counsel. Learned
 Senior Counsel for the applicant further submits that he
 will produce the applicant on the next date of hearing on
 self responsibility. Due to the non-availability of the opposing
 counsel, the matter is adjourned for today. Let the
 applicant be produced on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 13.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Dhananjai Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Y.P. Sood, Advocate, for defendants No.1
 and 2. None for defendant No.3. Shri B.C. Sharma and Plaintiff are present today.
 However, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that issues regarding damages have been framed by the
 Hon'ble Court on 14.07.2023, and in order to prove
 those issues, certain documents are required to be placed
 on record. Learned senior counsel further submits that she
 will move an appropriate application for bringing on
 record those documents. Learned counsel for the defendants No. 1 and 2 has
 no objection to the request of the learned senior counsel
 for the plaintiff. Therefore, the matter may be adjourned
 for today. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court after filing the appropriate application by
 the plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 35 of 2022 PW-1 Statement of Shri Pritam Lal, aged 50 years
 presently posted as Record Keeper, Additional
 Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ghumarwin,
 District Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 14.05.2024
 Stated that I am working as Record Keeper,
office of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Ghumarwin,
District Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh from 2023. I have
brought the requisitioned record. As per my record, FIR
No. 236 of 2024 registered at Police Station, Ghumarwin
District Bilaspur Ex. PW-1/A. Copy of the charges
against the accused persons is Ex. PW-1/B. Copy of the
Challan is Ex. PW-1/C. The statement of the witnesses
(PW-1 to PW-17) in the present Challan recorded by the
Court, is Ex. PW-1/D. The certified copy of the
judgment in the present Challan is Ex. PW-1/E. All the
above said documents are true and correct as per the
original record brought by me today (original seen and
returned). R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 35 of 2022 PW-2 Statement of Shri Lok Paul Thakur, aged 33
 years presently posted as Criminal Ahlmad,
 Additional District and Sessions Judge,
 Ghumarwin, District Bilaspur, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 14.05.2024
 Stated that I am working as Criminal Ahlmad,
office of Additional District and Sessions Judge,
Ghumarwin, District Bilaspur from November 2023. I
have brought the original requisitioned record. As per my
record, the copy of bail order passed in Bail Application
No. 190/22/2014 was decided by the Additional District
and Sessions Judge Ghumarwin on 25.11.2014. The copy
of the same is Ex. PW-2/A. The copies of the Bail
Application Nos. 202/22 of 2014 to 204/22 of 2014
decided on 24.12.2014, by the Additional Sessions Judge
is Ex. PW-2/B. The copy of order dated 24.11.2015 in
Sessions Trial No. 22-7/2015 passed by Additional
District and Sessions Judge, is Ex. PW-2/C. The above
said documents are true and correct as per my record
(original seen and returned). R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 35 of 2022 PW-3 Statement of Shri C.R/ Bharti, aged 54 years
 presently posted as Junior Assistant, Criminal
 Section, High Court of Himachal Pradesh,
 Shimla. On Oath
 14.05.2024
 Stated that I am working as Junior Assistant, in
Criminal Branch, High Court of Himachal Pradesh,
Shimla from 2022. I have brought the original
requisitioned record. As per my record the copy of the
order dated 28.09.2015 in Cr. MMO No. 67 of 2015 and
Criminal Revision No. 278 of 2015 passed by the Hon'ble
High Court is Ex. PW-3/A and copy of the order dated
28.03.2016, in Cr. MMO No. 73 of 2016 is Ex. PW-3/B.
The above said documents are true and correct as per my
record (original seen and returned). R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 35 of 2022 14.05.2024
 Present: Shri Anand Sharma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Karan Sharma, Advocate for the plaintiffs. All the defendants are already ex-parte. Statements of Shri Pritam Lal, Shri Lok Paul
 Thakur and Shri C.R. Bharti are recorded as PW-1, PW-
 2 and PW-3, respectively. Let the next three witnesses
 mentioned in the list of witnesses be summoned for the
 date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial).
 Steps, if any, be taken within fifteen days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Election Petition No. 1 of 2023
 14.05.2024
 Present: Shri R.K. Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Ms.
 Anita, Advocate, for the petitioner. Shri Rajesh Kashyap, Advocate, for respondent
 No.2. Respondents No. 2 to 4 already ex-parte. Respondent No.5, already deleted vide order
 dated 11.10.2023 of the Hon'ble Court. Admission and denial of the documents
 has been done by respondent No.1 today. The
 admission and denial of the documents filed by
 respondent No.1 has already been done by the
 petitioner on 30.04.2024. Admission and denial of the documents
 filed by the parties is complete. Accordingly, the
 matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th May, 2024
 (Pritam) CARBC No. 7 of 2018 15.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Swati Verma, Advocate, vice counsel for the
 petitioner. Shri Suneet Goel, Advocate for the respondent. As per the office report, the confirmation
 regarding Bank Guarantee No. 16090100011967,
 dated 06.03.2024 for the period of 05.03.2024 to
 31.03.2025, has been received and the same is taken
 on record. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1169 of 2022 in RSA No. 31 of 2020 AW-1 Statement of Shri HC Rakesh No. 51, aged 43 years, I.O. Police Post Sarahan, Tehsil
 Rampur, District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 15.05.2024
 Stated that I am posted as Incharge Police
Station Sarahan, Tehsil Rampur Bushehr, District Shimla
from 2019. I have brought the original requisitioned
record. On the complaint of Shri Raman Sharma S/o Shri
Hari Parkash Sharma, GD Entry No. 6, dated 25.07.2022,
was entered at Police Post Sarahan, District Shimla, under
my instruction which is Ex. AW-1/A. The said GD entry
is computer generated document. After the receipt of the
complaint, I visited the spot and the complainant informed
me that on the disputed land there were trees but I did not
find any tree on the said land. On my instruction, the
complainant Raman Sharma, clicked the photograph
Mark-`A'. I do not know whether any articles were
missing from the said Shed, however, some articles were
lying in the Shed apparent in photograph. The
complainant made a complaint that the respondent had
forcibly taken the apples from the tree but apparently I do
not found the allegation made by the complaint correct. I
have also made an inquiry from the other party but they
told me that the civil litigation is going on between them
in the Court and they will pursue the matter in the Court
accordingly. Thereafter, I came back to the Police Post
 Sarahan and made GD Entry No.9, regarding my arrival
at Police Post Sarahan, which is Ex. AW-1/`B'. CMP(M) No. 1169 of 2022 in RSA No. 31 of 2020

 xxx xxx xxx Shri Raj Kumar Negi,
 Advocate, for the respondent No.1. It is correct that the Shed apparent in
photograph Mark-`A', is an old structure. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

15th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1169 of 2022 in RSA No. 31 of 2020

 15.05.2024
 Present: Shri Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Shri Raj Kumar Negi, Advocate for the
 respondent No.1. Respondents No. 2 to 4 already ex-parte. Statement of HC Rakesh, No. 51, I.O.,
 Police Post Sarahan, is recorded as AW-1. Learned
 counsel for the applicant submits that he will produce
 the applicant on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of remaining
 AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 15 of 2023 16.05.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 petitioner. Shri Tarunjeet Singh Bhogal with Ms. Swati
 Verma, Advocate, for the respondents. As per the office report, the undertaking
 on behalf of the respondents has been filed by Shri
 A.K. Mirchandani, General Attorney of the
 respondents. The respondent has already filed the
 Bank Guarantee dated 20th January, 2024, duly issued
 by State Bank of India, SPL COMM Branch,
 Chandigarh, SCO 103-106, Sector-17B, Chandigarh,
 which has been duly verified by the concerned Bank. The Bank Guarantee is accordingly
 accepted. The undertaking subsequently furnished by
 the respondent is taken on record. Let the needful be
 done in compliance of the order of Hon'ble Court
 dated 11.01.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 35 of 2014 17.05.2024
 Present: Shri Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the
 counter claimant-defendant. None for non-counter claimant as they have been
 already proceeded ex-parte. As per the office report, the matter was
 fixed for 16.05.2024 for evidence of the counter-
 claimant on self responsibility, but due to some technical
 error while listing the case matter could not be reflected
 in the Cause List of 16.05.2024. Accordingly, the matter is listed today
 before the undersigned. Learned counsel for the counter-
 claimant/defendant submits that the defendant/counter
 claimant is not present today as he is not aware about the
 today's listing date and he seeks adjournment. Since the case was not reflected in the cause
 list of 16.05.2024, therefore, it is apparent that the same
 was not within the knowledge of learned counsel or the
 defendant-counter claimant, hence, the counter-claimant
 could not be produced. Accordingly, let the counter-claimant be
 produce on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

AW-1 Statement of Shri Chet Ram S/o Nantia Ram,
 aged 74,, R/o Village and Post Office Mundu,
 Tehsil Tehog, District Shimla, H.P.
 On Oath
 17.05.2024
 Stated that I am patient of heart and lungs and
my disease is continuing from 2006. At present I have
fracture in my leg also. I remained admitted in the IGMC
Shimla due to fracture in my leg from 16.07.2022 to
25.07.2022. The judgment and decree was passed by the
Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum Special
Judge, CBI, Shimla, on 23.09.2020 but due to the CRONA
pandemic I could not contact my counsel at Shimla since I
was suffering from various ailments. My wife and children
were also suffering from ailments and due to the pandemic
I could not come out from my house for the safety of my
family. Due to the CRONA pandemic my family was also
in financial crises. Due to old age I could not contact my
Advocate at Shimla for filing the appeal, however, in the
year 2023, when I get respite all my family problems and
after arranging the Court Fee, I approached my counsel
immediately for filing the present appeal. On my
instructions the appeal alongwith the present application
was filed by my counsel on 26th April, 2023. The delay in
filing the appeal is neither intentional nor willful but due
 to my old age, my ailments, ailment of my wife and
children, CORONA pandemic as well as due to family
circumstance as my son is also lodged in Jail. There was
no one in the family to accompany me to the Advocate at
Shimla, as my house is in remote area and is about 150
Kms. away from Shimla. The copy of my discharge-cum-
follow up Card is Mark `A'. Copy of my Prescription
Slip are Mark `B' and Mark `C'. Copies of the
Prescription Slip of my wife is Mark `D, and Copy of
Discharge-cum-follow up slip of my son having mental
disorder are Mark `E' and Mark `F'. CMP(M) No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

 xxx xxx xxx Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for respondents No. 1 to 3 My treatment was going on in Shimla and
Chandigarh. It is correct that I have not placed on
medical record of Mark `A' to Mark `F'. My Advocate
is stationed at Shimla. I was intimated by my counsel at
District Court immediately after the decision of the Lower
Appellate Court. It is incorrect that I was having ample
opportunities to meet my counsel at High Court of
Himachal Pradesh and to file the appeal well in time. It is
incorrect that I intentionally did not file the appeal well in
time. It is incorrect my grounds of application are
frivolous and I am deposing false today.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

17th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Chet Ram S/o Nantia Ram,
 aged 74,, R/o Village and Post Office Mundu,
 Tehsil Tehog, District Shimla, H.P.
 Without Oath
 17.05.2024

 Stated that I do not want to examine any other
witness and close the applicants evidence.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

17th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General for respondents No. 1 to 3. Without Oath
 17.05.2024

 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
on behalf of the respondents-State. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

17th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 409 of 2023 in RSA

 17.05.2024
 Present: Shri Nishant Kiddtha, Advocate for the
 applicants. Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General, for respondents No. 1 to 3 Statement of Shri Chet Ram applicant is
 recorded as AW-1. Vide his separate statement Shri
 Chet Ram has closed the applicants evidence. Learned
 Additional Advocate General vide his separate
 statement stated that he does not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of the respondents-State. Accordingly, the evidence on behalf of the
 parties is complete and the matter may be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th May, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2014 20.05.2024
 Present: Shri Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate for the
 plaintiff. Shri Ashok Tyagi, Advocate, for the defendant
 No.1. None for defendant No.2

 Witness Sh. Yugal Sharma is present today, however
 the learned counsel for the defendant No.1 has raised the
 objection that the witness present today cannot be
 examined since the plaintiff has not been examined till date
 and in the event of non examination of the plaintiff, prior in
 time, the other witnesses can not be examined. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submitted that the
 plaintiff has to come today but due to some personal
 difficulty he could not come to the Court for adducing
 evidence. However, learned counsel for the plaintiff
 submitted that he will produce the plaintiff on the next date
 of hearing. Accordingly, the witness present today is
 discharged. Let the plaintiff be produced on the next date of
 hearing on the self responsibility for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (J). The other witnesses will be
 summoned thereafter only. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th May, 2024
 (gaurav)
 CMP No. 478 of 2023 in RSA

 21.05.2024
 Present: Shri Kshitij, Advocate ld. vice counsel of Mr.
 Vinod Gupta, Advocate for the applicant. Shri Ajay Sharma, Advocate for the respondent. As per the office report the witness is required to be
 produced on self responsibility today, however, learned
 vice counsel for the applicant submit that due to ill health
 of Smt. Usha Devi she could not come to Court to adduce
 the evidence. Learned counsel for the applicant has also
 placed on record the prescription slip of Smt. Usha Devi,
 wherein, on 14.5.2024, Doctor has advised her ten days
 rest (Copy of the prescription slip is taken on record).
 Learned counsel for the applicant seeks adjournment for
 today, to which learned counsel for the respondent has no
 objection. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned. Let the
 case be listed for AWs' for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial)

 List along with CMP No. 478 of 2023

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st May, 2024
 (gaurav)
 CMP No. 478 of 2023 in RSA

 21.05.2024
 Present: Shri Kshitij, Advocate ld. vice counsel of Mr.
 Vinod Gupta, Advocate for the applicant. Shri Ajay Sharm, Advocate for the respondent. As per the office report the witness was required to
 be produced on self responsibility today, however, learned
 vice counsel for the applicant submit that due to ill health
 of Smt. Usha Devi could not come to adduce the evidence.
 Learned counsel for the applicant has also placed on record
 the prescription slip of Smt. Usha Devi, wherein, on
 14.5.2024 Doctor has advised her ten days rest (Copy of
 the prescription slip is taken on record). Learned counsel
 for the applicant seeks adjournment for today to which
 learned counsel for the respondent has no objection. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned. Let the
 case be listed for AWs' for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial)

 List along with CMP No. 478 of 2023

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st May, 2024
 (gaurav)
 Cr.MP(M) No. 1666 of 2023 in Cr.Rev.

 22.05.2024
 Present: Shri B.S.Atri, Advocate for the applicant. Ms. Geeta Thakur, vice Ms.Madhurika Sekhon,
 Advocate for the respondent. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant is present today. However, learned vice counsel
 for the respondent submits that the original counsel for the
 respondent is out of station and seeks adjournment on the
 ground of non-availability of the original counsel. Learned counsel for the applicant has no objection
 qua the adjournment sought by the respondent. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned. Let the case be
 listed for AWs' for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial)

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd May, 2024
 (gaurav)
 CMP No. 1059 of 2022 in RSA No. 633 of 2005

23.05.2024 Present:- 24.05.2024 Present:- The copy of the order dated 25.07.2016 is
annexed herewith as Annexure -A.

 Thereafter, as per office report of the Assistant
Registrar, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India dated 05.01.2016,
(copy of the office order is Annexure -B), in Special
Leave Petition (Crl.) No. 9486 of 2009, the Special Leave
Petition No. 9486 of 2009, stood dismissed as the counsel
for the petitioner did not take appropriate steps in compliance
to the order dated 25.07.2016. Accordingly, SLP No. 9485 of 2009 only was
registered as Criminal Appeal No. 107 of 2017 and vide
judgment dated 09.02.2022, Criminal Appeal No. 107 of
2017 arising out of the SLP (Criminal) No. 9485 of 2009 the
Hon'ble Apex Court remitted back the said Appeal to this
Hon'ble High Court. It is, therefore, respectfully submitted that due
to inadvertence the connecting Criminal Appeal No. 523 of
2004, decided by this Hon'ble Court has been listed along
with Criminal Appeal No. 337 of 2004, which has been
 remanded back by the Hon'ble Apex Court. The Dealing
 Assistant has regretted the inconvenience caused to the
 Hon'ble Court. Accordingly, the report is submitted, please. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 25.05.2024

Note: The Court Master of the Hon'ble Court is requested to
 apprise the Hon'ble Court at the time of hearing of the
 matter. Deputy Registrar (Judicial)
 CMP(M) No. 1280 of 2022 in RFA

27.05.2024 Present:- Since the post of Assistant Librarian has
already been advertised in compliance to the order of Your
Lordship at N/642 at Flag `X-1', therefore, the representation
dated 27.12.2023, has become infructuous. In view of the above, Lordship's directions are
solicited as under: 28.05.2024

Hon'ble the Chief Justice
 Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 a/w CS 108 of 2021
 28.05.2024
 Present: Shri Maan Singh, Advocate, for the plaintiff
 in Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 and for non- of 2021. Shri Janmajai Chauhan, Advocate, vice Shri
 Sunil Mohan Goel, Advocate, for the
 defendants in Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 and
 for counter claimants in Counter Claim No.
 108 of 2021. Learned counsel for the parties have made joint
 request for adjournment of the cases as the witnesses are not
 present today. As per previous orders, three opportunities
 have already been granted for producing the plaintiff's
 witnesses on self responsibility. Therefore, let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 14361 of 2021 in RSA No. 492 of 2015

 Statement of Shri Ramakant Sharma,
 Advocate for the applicant. Without Oath
 29.05.2024

 Stated that no other witnesses is required to be
examined further, therefore, I close the evidence on behalf
of the applicant. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 14361 of 2021 in RSA No. 492 of 2015

 29.05.2024
 Present: Shri Ramakant Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. None for the respondents. Vide separate statement, learned counsel for the
 applicant has closed the evidence on behalf of the applicant. As per the office report, despite order dated
 15.12.2023 of the Hon'ble Court, the respondents have not
 taken the steps till date. Therefore, let the matter be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th May, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 in RSA

 31.05.2024
 Present: None for the applicant/State
 Sh. Virender Singh Chauahn Sr. Advocate
 with Mr. Arsh Chauahan for the respondent. Sh. Ranjeet Singh AW-2 present in person

 As per the office report, witness Sh. Ranjeet
 Singh is present today. Despite repeated calls no Additional/
 Deputy/ Assistant Advocate General appeared for getting
 the statement recorded of the witness present today.
 Therefore the undersigned has no option but to discharge
 the witness today. Accordingly, the witness is discharged. In view of the above, let the matter be listed in the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
31st May, 2024
 (Gaurav) Company Pet. No. 17 of 2014 10.06.2024 Present:- 11.06.2024
 Stated that I have filed the present appeal i.e.
RSA No. 549 of 2009, in the High Court. I have filed an
application for the stay alongwith the said appeal, vide
order dated 23.11.2009, the Hon'ble Court directed the
parties to maintain status quo with respect to nature
possession and titled of the suit land. Thereafter, vide
order dated 25.03.2010, the Hon'ble Court appointed one
Local Commissioner to know the factual position of the
disputed land bearing Khasra No. 207/1. On the directions
of the Hon'ble Court Naibh Tehsildar Jhandutta visited the
spot and demarcated the land. Vide order dated
21.08.2013, the Hon'ble Court confirmed the interim
order dated 23.11.2009. Inspite of the stay order, the
respondent started to raise construction on the disputed
land on 31.01.2017. I made a request to the respondent
not to raise any construction over the disputed land but he
did not stop. Thereafter, on 01.02.2017, I made a
complaint to the SHO Police Station Tallai, which is
Mark `A'. On the same day SHO Police Station Tallai,
send Head Constable Tirth Ram to the spot and he found
that the respondent was doing the construction work on
the spot. After making of the inspection of the spot Head
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

Constable Tirth Ram asked the documents pertaining to
the said land from me and from the respondent. After
inspecting the documents on the spot Head Constable
Tirth Ram did not rely upon the documents produced by
me and told me that there is no stay, however, he relied
upon the documents produced by the respondents.
Thereafter, he pressurized me to enter into a compromise
with the respondents and wrote a compromise deed by his
hand. The compromise deed is Mark `B'. I appended my
signature's on the compromise deed since I was
pressurized by Head Constable Tirth Ram and my
signature is Ex. PW-5/A on compromise deed Mark `B'.
Thereafter, Head Constable left the spot and went back to
Police Station. Thereafter, in order to resolve the dispute I
requested the respondent to make the construction work
on the disputed land but the respondent did not allow me
to do the work. Thereafter, I again made a complaint SHO
Police Station Tallai on 02.02.2017, which is Mark `C'.
Though, the SHO Police Station Tallai assured me that
they are coming to the spot but they did not come to the
spot. The respondent carried on his construction work
pertaining to raising of the walls and laid the lentil on the
structure raised on the disputed land. Thereafter, I filed
one application Mark `D', under Right to Information Act to the SHO Police Station, Tallai and he provided me the
documents which were asked by me in my application and
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

the same are Mark `E', Mark `F', Mark `G' and Mark
`H'. The respondent did not stop his work, however, he
also made one application to the District Magistrate,
which is Mark `E'. On my application dated 02.02.2017
Mark `C' and the application filed by respondent Mark
`D', Head Constable Tirth Ram again visited the spot on
03.04.2017 and recorded the statement of the respondent
but he did not recorded my statement. The Police has
given the wrong report against me which was not
according to the factual position. The respondent has
intentionally and willfully disobeyed of the stay order of
the Hon'ble Court, therefore, he be dealt with in
accordance with law. xxx xxx xxx Shri Sharwan Dogra, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Bharat Thakur, Advocate
 for the respondents. It is correct that I had filed the suit pertaining to
Khasra No. 207/1. It is correct that the stay order granted
by the High Court is also pertaining to the same Khasra
Number. It is incorrect that Khasra No. 210 abuts to
Khasra No. 207/1. It is correct that Khasra No. 207/2 is
abutting to Khasra No. 207/1. Khasra No. 207/2 is owned
by me. Khasra No. 207/3 is owned by the respondent.
Both the Khasra No. 207/2 and Khasra No. 207/3 are
abutting to Khasra No. 207/1. It is correct that adjacent to
Khasra No. 207/3 there is one another Khasra No. 526/208
which also belongs to respondent. It is incorrect that the
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

boundary of Khasra No. 526/208 is not touching with
Khasra No. 207/1. It is correct that boundary of Khasra
No. 526/208 is abutting to Khasra Nos.207/3 and 525/208.
It is correct that the respondent is raising whatever
construction is on Khasra No. 526/208. Self stated that
there is also stay pertaining to Khasra No. 526/208 for
which separate RSA is pending adjudication before the
High Court. It is incorrect that the respondent is not
raising any construction on Khasra No. 207/1, which is the
subject matter of the present RSA. It is incorrect that at
the time of demarcation all the Khasra Numbers were not
identified by the Revenue Agency. It is incorrect that I
use to file the vague applications before the Police
Authorities just to harass the respondent. It is incorrect
that I am deposing false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

 Statement of Shri Rahul Mahajan, Advocate,
 for the applicant. Without Oath
 11.06.2024

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
applicant since the list of witness has been exhausted.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

 Statement of Shri Bharat Thakur, Advocate, for
 the respondents. Without Oath
 11.06.2024

 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
on behalf of the respondents and close the evidence.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 9572 of 2017 in RSA No. 549 of 2009

11.06.2024 Present:- 12.06.2024 Present:- 13.06.2024

 Stated that Smt. Krishan Devi is my mother. I
am conversant with the litigation pending adjudication in
the High Court, which has been filed by my mother. My
mother has filed a contempt petition against the
respondents. I have clicked the photographs which are
annexed with the application with my mobile phone,
`Mark-A to Mark-C'. I am tendering the certificate
under Section 65 B of the Indian Evidence Act regarding
the clicking of the above said photographs with my mobile
phone and the same are factulally correct. The certificate
is Ex. AW-1/A. After clicking the photographs from my
mobile I got them developed from photographer Shri
Pankaj whose photo studio is at Dhalpur. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Rinki Kashmiri,
 Advocate, for the respondents. I have kept the clicked photographs Mark `A'
to March `C' in my mobile phone. I have not placed on
record the original electronic record regarding clicking of
 CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

the said photographs in the present case. It is correct that
there is no mention of date and time on the photographs
from which it could be ascertained on which date and at
what time they have been clicked. It is incorrect that the
photographs Mark `A' to Mark `C', is not as per the
factual position existing on the spot. It is correct that in
photographs Mark `D-1 to D-4, are of the spot in which
my house is apparent behind the brick wall, having
greenish colour. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

13th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

 AW-2
 Statement of Shri Pankaj S/o Late Shri
 Subhash, aged about 40 years, R/o Pankaj
 Photo Studio, Dhalpur, Tehsil and District
 Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 13.06.2024

 Stated that I have a photo studio in the name of
Pankaj Photo Home Studio at Dhalpur, Kullu and our
photo studio is in existence for the last 50 years. Prior to
me my father use to run that photo studio. Shri Narender
Kumar is not personally known to me, however, he came
to my studio as a customer in the year 2022. Shri
Narender had given me his phone for connecting it with
the computer and to take out the prints of the photographs
clicked by him in his mobile. I have developed the
photographs Mark `A' to Mark `C', which are Ex. AW-
2/A, Ex. Aw-2/B and Ex. Aw-2/C. (Bbjected to on the
mode of proof). Xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Rinki Kashmiri,
 Advocate, for the respondents. Whenever some customer use to come for
taking the printouts of the photographs I use to charge
them as per the relevant prices. I also use to give the
receipt of the payment whenever some customer demands
the receipt. Ordinarily, I use to take about 50 printouts of
 CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

the photographs of the customers. I do not use to maintain
any record of the customers. I have not issued any receipt
to Shri Narender Kumar, since he has not demanded it. I
cannot provide the names of the customers who visited in
my studio in the year 2022. It is correct that there is
nothing on the photographs from which it could be
inferred that the printout of the same has been taken from
my studio. I have not kept the record in my computer
regarding the photographs Ex. Aw-2/A to AW-2/C. Prior
to the visiting of Shri Narender Kumar one person from a
village came for the printouts of the photographs and after
Shri Narender Kumar I took out passport photos of a
person . I do not remember the names of the said person
who visitited priot to and after Narender Kumar. I did not
came to Shimla alongwith Shri Narender Kumar today. I
met him outside the Court only. After receiving the
summons in this case I did not contact Shri Narender nor I
saw the above said photographs in his mobile. It is
incorrect that I have not taken out the printouts of the
above said photographs. It is incorrect that I am deposing
false on the asking of Shri Narender Kumar. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

13th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

 AW-3
 Statement of Shri Sachin Thakur, S/o Shri
 Prem Singh Thakur, aged about 29 years,
 Junior Engineer, Municipal Council Kullu,
 District Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 13.06.2024

 Stated that I have brought the original
requisitioned record. I am working in the office of
Municipal Council Kullu from August, 2022. Smt.
Krishan Devi has filed one complaint through his son
Manoj Kumar in the Municipal Council Kullu against
Pushpa Devi. As per my record Smt. Krishna Devi has
filed the said complaint on 09.09.2022. On the said
complaint Executive Officer of Municipal Council Kullu
issued a notice to Smt. Pushpa Devi, Dhan Raj, Avneesh
and Seema, on 06.12.2022. Smt. Pushpa Devi had
submitted the Map of her house for the approval by the
Municipal Council Kullu and the same has been approved
by the Municipal Council on 23.05.2022. I alongwith
Supervisor also visited the spot where the construction
was being raised by Pushpa Devi. As per my observation
Smt. Pushpa Devi has deviated from the approved map.
Thereafter, Muncipal Council Kullu issued notice to Smt.
Pushpa Devi for removal of the construction raised by her
beyond approved map. Smt. Pushpa Devi and others co- CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

owners have applied for the revised plan to Muncipal
Council Kullu on 26.12.2022. The said revised plan is
pending for approval in our office. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Ms. Rinki Kashmiri,
 Advocate, for the respondents. It is correct that the building plan approved by
the Municipal Council pertains to the construction on the
land of Smt. Pushpa and other co-owners. The notice
regarding removal of the unauthorized structure was given
to Smt. Pushpa Devi after making the measurement on the
spot. Smt. Pushpa Devi has applied for the revised map
for which she has made deviation from the earlier
approved map. It is correct that Municipal Council has the
power to compound 10% deviation of the approved map. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

13th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 1227 of 2022 in RSA No. 144 of 2016

13.06.2024 Present:- 14.06.2024 Present:- 15.06.2024 Present:- Shri H.S. Upadhaya, Advocate, for defendant/
 counter claimant. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that despite information to the witness Shri Vikas
 Jain (PW-3), he has not turned up for his cross
 examination. Learned counsel further submits that
 this witness has shown his inability to come to
 Shimla today for the reasons best known to him. Since the cross examination of this
 witness is deferred from the year 2019 on one
 pretext or the other and despite last opportunity he
 did not come for his cross examination. Learned
 counsel for the plaintiff further submits that the other
 witnesses mentioned in the list of witnesses can be
 examined after the cross examination of Shri Vikas
 Jain (PW-3), if required. In that eventuality, the undersigned has
 no other option but to list the case before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Accordingly,
 the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

 AW-2
 Statement of Shri Sunil Kumar, Advocate, S/o
 Shri Jai Shiv Prakash aged about 36 years,
 Village Dhanroti, P.O. Purag, Tehsil Kotkhai,
 District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 24.06.2024

 Stated that I had been working with Late Shri
Gulzar Singh Rathore, Advocate since 2014. One Shri Raj
Kumar came to our office during the life time of Shri
Gulzar Rathore in the 2nd week of January, 2020. Due to
the winter vacation in the High Court Shri Gulzar Rathore,
called that client after winter vacation in the month of
March, 2020. Thereafter, due to the detection of Cancer to
Late Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore, Advocate, he did not
come to his Chambers. Thereafter, as per the advice of
Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore, Advocate, client Shri Raj
Kumar came to our Chambers in the month of March,
2020. I informed Shri Raj Kumar that due to ill health of
Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore, he is not coming to the Court
as well as his Chambers. I also informed Shri Raj Kumar
that as and when Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore, will come to
the Court as well as his Chambers, you will be informed
accordingly. Thereafter, due to the outbreak of CRONA
pandemic, we did not contact Shri Raj Kumar. On
17.03.2021, Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore, expired. I did not
contact Shri Raj Kumar in between March, 2020 to March,
2021. After the death of Gulzar Rathore, Shri Raj Kumar
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

came to his chambers in December, 2021 and met me. He
asked from the as to why Shri Gulzar Rathore is not
picking up his phone then I informed him about the death
of Shri Gulzar Singh Rathore. Shri Gulzar Rathore was
having his office at Vidhi Nikunj. When Shri Raj Kumar
contacted me after the death of Shri Guzar Rathore, I tried
to search his file in his office but I could not find the same
in the Chambers. I also informed Shri Raj Kumar that
some files were being placed by Shri Gulzar Rathore in
his office at home and that file may be in his home. When
I shifted the office of Shri Gulzar Rathore to my chambers
at Sita Bhawan near Jodha Niwas Jakhoo, then I traced out
the file of Shri Raj Kumar in August, 2022. Thereafter, I
telephonically informed Shri Raj Kumar about the tracing
of his file. In the month of August, 2022, Shri Raj Kumar
came to my chambers and took his file with him. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Surinder Saklani,
 Advocate, for the respondents. I am practicing as an Advocate since 2014 with
Shri Gulzar Rathore. Shri Gulzar Rathore was having
two junior except myself. Self stated that I was handling
his work in the High Court only after 2016. I have not
gone through the file which was handed over by Shri Raj
Kumar to Shri Gulzar Rathore. It is correct that during
winter vacation the Registry and filing is open. I do not
 know why Shri Gulzar Rathore had called Raj Kumar
after vacation. Self stated that Shri Gulzar Rathore use to
go to Channai alongwith his wife for the treatment of his
wife. When Shri Raj Kumar visited our office in the
month of Marcdh, 2020, at that time the Cancer was
detected to Shri Gulzar Rathore and due to which I
informed Shri Raj Kumar that as and when he will come,
he will inform you. During the treatment of Shri Gulzar
Rathroe I use to see his cases in the Court. Self stated that
during that time no fresh cases were being filed from the
office of Shri Gulzar Rathore or on his behalf. I use to
bring the case files which were being listed in the Court
and which were kept by Shri Gulzar Rathore in his office
at Vidhi Nikunj. However, the files which were kept by
Shri Gulzar Rathore in his home office were not brought
to the Court. It is correct that the files which were in the
office at Vidhi Nikunj were easily available for bringing it
to the court and I have easy acess to them for bringing it to
the Court. It is correct that in December, 2021, Shri Raj
Kumar met me in Vidhi Nikunj Chambers of Shri Gulzar
Rathore. It is correct that at that the present matter was
not filed in the Court. Self stated that I tried to trace the
file but could not find at that time. Shri Raj Kumar never
disclosed about the pendency of any Execution Petition in
the trial Court. It is incorrect that Shri Gulzar Rathore
never asked Shri Raj Kumar to come in the month of
March, 2020. It is incorrect that the file was readily
 available in the office. It is incorrect that I am deposing
false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1328 of 2022 in RSA

 24.06.2024
 Present: Mr. Rajiv Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Shri Surinder K. Saklani, Advocate, for the
 respondents. State of Shri Sunil Kumar is recorded as
 AW-2. Learned counsel for the applicant vide his
 separate statement has closed the evidence on behalf
 of the applicant. Learned counsel for the respondents
 seeks time for RWs. Let the steps be taken within
 fifteen days, thereafter the process be issued for
 service of RWs for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial)

 Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Statement of Shri Rajiv Chauhan, Advocate,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 24.06.2024

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant since the list of witness has been exhausted. RO&AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 794 of 2024 in RSA No. 148 of 2007

 25.06.2024
 Present: Mr. Abhishek, Advocate vice Ms. Rachna
 Kuthiala, Advocate, for the applicant. None for the respondents. As per office report, steps i.e. list of
 witnesses, road and diet money for service of the
 witnesses has not been filed by the applicant.
 Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks some
 more time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter the process be issued for service of AWs
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th June, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 111 of 2021 25.06.2024
 Present: Shri Rohit, Advocate, vice Shri Sumit Sood,
 Advocate, for the plaintiffs
 None for defendants No. 1 to 6. As per office report, the matter was listed
 for plaintiff's evidence but subsequently, a report has
 been received that the plaintiff has moved an
 application under Order XVIII Rule 3A, read with Section 151 CPC for permitting the plaintiff to
 adduce evidence at the later stage after the
 examination of the other witnesses. As per the report of the Dealing
 Assistant, summons to the other witnesses could not
 be issued due to inadvertence, therefore, no
 witnesses are present today. Since an application under Order XVIII
 Rule 3A CPC , has been filed by the plaintiff,
 therefore, at the first instance, the same may be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th June, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP No. 620 of 2009 in Civil Suit No. 66 of 1998

 26.06.2024
 Present: Shri Mehar Chand, Advocate, for the non- applicant. Shri Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate, vice
 Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the
 applicants. As per office report, steps for applicants
 evidence are not taken by the applicant. Learned
 vice counsel for the applicant submits that they will
 file the list of witnesses and bring the evidence on
 self responsibility. Accordingly, let the list of witnesses on
 behalf of the applicant be filed within fifteen days
 and the witnesses be produced on self responsibility
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th June, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 27.06.2024
Present: Shri Ashwani Pathak, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Dev Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Pranjal Munjal, Advocate vice counsel for
 the defendant. As per office report, plaintiff's witnesses
 at Sl. No. 3 and 7 are duly served and PW at Sl.
 No.6, is reported to be un-served for the want of
 correct address. Witnesses Shri Sunil Suman and
 Shri Neeraj Kumar, Manager Blue Dart are present. Learned vice counsel for the defendant
 submits that the Senior Counsel is out of station due
 to demise of his father and he seeks adjournment on
 that ground. Adjournment sought by the learned
 vice counsel for the defendant is not opposed by the
 learned senior counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff further
 submits that the witness Shri Neeraj Kumar has not
 brought the original requisitioned record today due
 to which the documents which are required to be
 proved may not be proved in accordance with law. Hence, the witnesses present today are
 discharged. Let the correct address of PW
 mentioned at Sl. No.6 in the list of witnesses be filed
 within fifteen days and the witnesses who are present
 today be summoned again along with the witness
 mentioned at Sl. No.6 for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th June, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 13 of 2020 28.06.2024
 Present: Shri Sidhant Maniktala, Advocate, vice counsel
 for the plaintiff. Shri Balvinder Singh Ballu, Deputy Advocate
 General for the respondents-State. As per office report, the plaintiff was
 required to be produced on self responsibility today
 for adducing his evidence, however, learned vice
 counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to some
 personal difficulty he could not come to the Court
 today. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
 seeks adjournment for today. Granted. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date for
 plaintiff's evidence, who shall be produced on self
 responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th June, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 AW-1
 Statement of Shri Jaram Singh, S/o Shri
 Munshi Ram, aged about 68 years, Village
 Sapera, P.O. Boh, Tehsil Shahpur, District
 Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 01.07.2024

 Stated that I illiterate. The respondent Babu
Ram had filed a Civil Suit against me before the trial
Court, which was decreed by the trial Court. Thereafter, I
filed an appeal before the first appellate Court at
Dharamshala, which was decided on 05.01.2022. I could
not file the present appeal before the Hon'ble High Court
in time because my Advocate at Dharamshala did not
inform me about the decision of the appeal at
Dharamshala. I received a notice for possession on
13.03.2023, issued by the Revenue Officer, on which I
came to know that my appeal has been decided by the
Appellate Court at Dharamshala. Thereafter I contacted
my Advocate at Dharamshala but he informed me that my
case is still pending and the dates are being fixed by the
Court. He also took fees from me. Thereafter, I contacted
another Advocate to know the status of my case on which
I came to know that my appeal at Dharamshala, had
already been decided on 05.01.2022. Thereafter, I took
the record pertaining to my case from the Advocate which
was engaged by me at Dharamshala. Thereafter, I came to
Shimla in the month of March, 2023, and handed over all CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 the documents to the Counsel at Shimla for filing the
appeal. Accordingly, my Advocate at Shimla filed the
appeal on 24.03.2023. There was neither any willful or
intentional delay on my part and the delay, if any, is due to
the above stated reasons. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate,
 for non-applicant/ respondent. It is correct that Shri Babu Ram is owner of the
disputed land. I am owner of four vehicles. I have three
sons. My eldest son is 8th pass. MY second son is 10 th
pass and my youngest son is 12 th pass. It is incorrect that I
have installed a sawmill on the disputed land. It is
incorrect that my counsel at Dharamshal informed me
about the dismissal of the appeal on 05.11.2022. It is
correct that I have not applied certified copy of the
decision of the Appellant Court at Dharamshal, however, I
have collected all the documents from my Advocate at
Dharamshala. It is correct that my counsel had filed one
CMPMO before the Hon'ble High Court against the
warrant of possession. It is incorrect that I have
intentionally not filed the appeal well in time. I do not
know that in the Execution Petition 2 of 2020 pending
adjudication before the Court of Senior Civil Judge,
Dharamshala, my counsel had sought the time for filing
the objections when the case was listed in that Court in the
year 2021. It is incorrect that I was well aware about all CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 the decisions of my case in the Courts and just to harass
the respondent and delay the possession, I filed the present
appeal and the CMPMO in the High Court. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

1st July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 Statement of Shri Goldy Kumar, Advocate,
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla. Without Oath
 01.07.2024

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

1st July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 01.07.2024
 Present: Shri Goldy Kumar, Advocate for the applicant. Shri Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate, for the non-
 applicant. Statement of Shri Jaram Singh is
 recorded as AW-1. Learned counsel for the
 applicant vide his separate statement has closed the
 evidence on behalf of the applicant. Learned counsel for the
 non-applicant/respondent seeks time for Rws. Let
 the steps, if any, be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter the process be issued for the service of
 Rws returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2021 02.07.2024
Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate along with
 plaintiff Shri Karan Verma. Shri Ashok Kumar, Advocate vice Shri V.D.
 Khidtta, Advocate for the defendants. As per the office report, summons issued
 to PWs mentioned at Sl. Nos. 1 and 2 in the list of
 witnesses are duly served. Shri Yog Raj, Record
 Keeper from the office of District Judge, Shimla and
 Ms. Anju Sharma, Civil Ahlmad from the office of
 Civil Judge Court No.6, Shimla are present. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff
 submits that the plaintiff is required to be examined
 after the examination of the official witnesses since
 his statement is based upon the official record which
 is to be produced and proved by the other official
 witnesses. Therefore, learned senior counsel seeks
 adjournment for the examination of the plaintiff
 today. Learned senior counsel further submits
 that he will move the appropriate application under Order XVIII Rule 3A CPC for the exemption of
 examining the plaintiff at the first instance. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned and
 the same be listed before the Hon'ble Court as Civil Suit No. 86 of 2021 and when the appropriate application will be filed by
 the plaintiff. The witnesses present today are also
 discharged for today. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 62 of 2005 02.07.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Tawarsu, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Defendants No. 2 and 3 already ex-parte.
 Suit against defendants No. 4 to 6 stand
 dismissed vide order dated 19.12.2003.
 Shri Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for defendant
 No.7. As per the office report, list of witnesses
 and process fee have been filed, however, diet money
 has not been deposited. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that they will deposit the diet money within a week. Accordingly, after the depositing the diet
 money let PW at Sl. No.1, in the list of witnesses be
 summoned for 26.09.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

 AW-3
 Statement of Shri Rajesh Kumar, Patwari,
 Patwar Circle Jahu, Tehsil Bhoranj, District
 Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 03.07.2024

 Stated that presently I posted as Patwari,
Patwar Circle Jahu, Tehsil Bhoranj, District Hamirpur,
H.P. from August, 2022. I have brought the original
requisitioned record. Legal heir certificate Ex AW-3/A,
has been duly issued by me under my signature on
28.06.2022, which is true and correct as per the original
record brought by me (original seen and returned). xxx xxx xxx Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate,
 for non-applicant/respondents No. 1 to 3. Opportunity given. Nil. xxx xxx xxx Shri Nitin Rishi, Advocate, vice
 Shri Ashwani Kumar Sharma, for
 respondent No.8. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

 AW-4
 Statement of Shri Raj Kumar, S/o Shri Sita
 Ram, aged about 47 years R/o Village Jahu
 Khurad Tappa Mewa, P.O. Jahu, Tehsil
 Bhoranj, District Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 03.07.2024

 Stated that I came to know about the death of
Shri Ram Krishan when I received the letter from my
Advocate at Shimla whereby he informed me that Shri
Ram Krishan has been reported to have been died by the
process serving agency. My counsel at Shimla asked me
to procure the Death Certificate and Legal heir certificate
from the Secretary Gram Panchayat Jahu and send it
immediately to him. I immediately went to Secretary
Gram Panchayat Jahu but due to the strike of the
Secretaries of the Gram Panchayats at that relevant time, I
could not procure the Death and legal heir certificate from
the Gram Panchayat. Thereafter, I went to the concerned
Patwari of Jahu, who issued legal heir certificate Ex. PW-
3/A to me. Thereafter, I handed over the same to my
counsel, who filed the appropriate application before the
Court. xxx xxx xxx Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate,
 for non-applicant/respondents No. 1 to 3. The distance between my house and Ram
Krishan house is about 3 Kms. Self stated that Shri Ram
Krishan use to stay in the village, however, I have
 CMP (M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

constructed my house in District Bilaspur. I do not
remember the dates when the strike of Secretaries of the
Gram Panchayat was going on. It is incorrect that I was
well aware about the death of Shri Ram Krishan but I have
intentionally not informed my Advocate regarding the
death of Shri Ram Krishan. xxx xxx xxx Shri Nitin Rishi, Advocate, vice
 Shri Ashwani Kumar Sharma, for
 respondent No.8. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd July, 2024
(Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

 Statement of Shri Raj Kumar, S/o Shri Sita
 Ram, aged about 47 years R/o Village Jahu
 Khurad Tappa Mewa, P.O. Jahu, Tehsil
 Bhoranj, District Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh. Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
applicant, since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 963 of 2022 in RSA No. 195 of 2021

 03.07.2024
 Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant. Shri Athrav Sharma, Advocate, for respondents
 No. 1 to 3. Shri Nitin Rishi, Advocate, vice Shri Ashwani
 Kumar Sharma, Advocate, for respondent No.8. Statement of Shri Rajesh Kumar and Shri
 Raj Kumar are recorded as AW-3 and AW-4,
 respectively. Vide separate statement, the applicant
 Shri Raj Kumar has close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicant. Learned counsel for the respondents
 seeks time for Rws. Let the steps, if any, be taken within
 fifteen days thereafter the process be issued for service
 of RWs returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA No. 46 of 2017

 RW-1
 Statement of Shri Bhupender Kumar, Patwari,
 Patwar Circle Khaneol Bagra, P.O. Khaneol
 Bagra, Tehsil Karson, District Mandi,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 04.07.2024

 I am working as Patwari, Patwar Circle
Khaneol Bagra, from November 2021. I have brought the
original requisitioned record. As per the latest revenue
record, i.e. Jamabandi Ex. AW-1/A, Khasra No. 1658 is
in the ownership of different co-owners. Shri Pitamber,
Shri Bhupender and Shri Khem Raj are also co-owners of
the said Khasra number. Late Shri Gopi Chand was also
one of the co-owner of the said Khasra number and now
his legal heirs has been entered in his place after his death.
As per the record, Shri Pitamber, Shri Bhupender and Shri
Khem Raj inherited property in Khasra nuymber 1658
from their forefathers. Khasra No.. 1658 is joint property
of all the co-owners. Original seen and returned. xxx xxx xxx Shri G.R. Palsra, Advocate, for
 the applicants. It is correct that as per the revenue record Shri
Purshotam is one of the co-owner of Khasra No. 1720, of
the property situated at Mohal Shauhat, Tehsil Karsog,
District Mandi. It is correct that as per revenue record
Shri Purshotam has executed a will in favour of Shri
 CMP (M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA No. 46 of 2017

Pitamber Lal, Shri Bhupender and Shri Khem Raj. Self
stated that Khasra No. 1720 is also a joint property. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

4th July, 2024
(Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA No. 46 of 2017
 04.07.2024
 Present: Shri G.R. Palsra, Advocate, for the applicant. Shri O.P. Chauhan Advocate with Ms. Shikha
 Chauhan and Shri Khushi Ram Verma,
 Advocates, for the respondents. Statement of Shri Bhupender Kumar
 Patwari, is recorded as RW-1. As per the office report,
 the summons issued for the service of witness
 mentioned at Sl. No. 2, is duly served. Learned counsel for the respondents
 submits that they have been telephonic ally informed
 by the witness at Sl. No.1 that due to heavy rainfall
 and blockade of road he could reach the Court today.
 Therefore, learned counsel seeks adjournment for
 recording his statement. Accordingly, the adjournment is granted.
 Let the witness at Sl. No. 1 be produced on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th July, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 3 of 2023 PW-1
 Statement of Shri Shashank Jhawar S/o Shri
 Ashok Kumar Jhawar, aged 33 years, R/o B-
 250, Phase-I, Ashok Vihar, Delhi-110052. On Oath
 05.07.2024

 Stated that I am Special Power of Attorney
Holder of my uncle Shri Anand Raj Jhawar and I have
been duly authorized vide Special Power of Attorney
Ex.PW-1/A, to represent my uncle and to adduce on his
behalf in the present case. The R.R. Agrotech., had
entered into an agreement Ex.PW-1/B (four leaves) with
the defendants. The terms and conditions of the
agreement are in the entered in e-tender document (MTF),
which is Ex.PW-1/C (111 leaves). The works to be
executed as per the agreement Ex.PW-1/B, had been
mentioned in Bill of quantity (BOQ), WHICH IS Ex.
PW-1/D, ( 8 leaves). At the time of filing the tender all
the rates pertaining to the item No. 1 to 141, which has
been mentioned in BOQ were quoted by the plaintiff firm
and on the said rates, the defendants accepted the tender of
the plaintiff firm. The plaintiff firm had quoted the rates in
BOQ Ex. PW-1/D on the basis of CPWD rates contained
in Delhi Schedule of Rates (DSR) and Delhi Schedule of
Rates Analysis (DSA). The dispute in the present lis is
pertaining to item No. 140 and 141 mentioned in BOQ,
Ex.PW-1/D. The dispute is regarding the item 140 and
141, i.e. site development. As per item No. 140, the earth COMS No. 3 of 2023 is to excavated by mechanical means (Hydraulic
Excavator) including disposal of excavated earth within all
leads and lifts. Disposed earth to be levelled and neatly
dressed. In item No. 141, the carriage and disposal of
earth by mechanical means/transport including loading
uploading and stacking at contractors' risk upto 5
kilometers. For both these items, the quantity mention in
the BOQ is 84960.00 Cubic Meter (CUM), whereas the
rate for each item is separately mentioned and agreed
upon. When plaintiff firm started the excavation work in
April 2018 and reached upto around six thousand cubic
meters, the said excavated earth was dumped to the site
allotted by the the FCI. The said site was objected to by the Pollution
Control Board and the FCI stopped us from dumping the
earth on that site allotted by them. The Pollution Control
Board took up the matter with FCI officials vide letter
dated 11.06.2019, which is `Mark -A'. Thereafter, the
plaintiff firm asked the defendants to provide the alternate
dumping site at the earliest so that the execution of the
work should hamper. The defendants asked the plaintiff
firm to locate any alternative dumping site at our own as
they are paying them as per item No. 141 of BOQ. The
letter dated 11.03.2019, pertaining to that effect is `Mark-
B'. On the letter dated 11.03.2019, `Mark -B', the
plaintiff firm started to locate the alternate dumping site
which were about 12 kilometer from the site. Three COMS No. 3 of 2023 different sites located by the plaintiff firm were informed
to the defendants and the defendants have approve all the
three sites. Thereafter, the defendants constituted a
committee and visited all the three sites. Since as per item
NO. 141 of BOQ, only the sites upto five Kms., were
mentioned but since the sites located by the plaintiff firm
beyond five Kms., therefore, the defendant company
approved the new rates for the transpiration and other
incidental expenses which is `Mark -C'. The plaintiff
firm excavated about 1 lacs 6 thousand cubic meter earth
in total out of which about six thousand cubic meter were
dumped already allotted by the defendants and about
99000 cubic meters earth excavated was dumped by the
plaintiff firm in the newly located site. The plaintiff firm
raised the first three bills which are Mark -D', `Mark -E',
and Mark -F', qua excavation and dumping of the earth to
the defendant company in which the defendant company
paid upto five kilometers as per the item No. 141 of the
BOQ only. However, the plaintiff firm received the entire
payment qua item No. 140 of the BOQ. So far as the
payment qua extra seven kilometers was concerned that
was not within the the preview of the concerned AGM,
therefore, he sent the proposal for payment of the
additional distance upto seven kilometers to the Zonal
Office of the defendant at Noida. All the work done
pertaining to excavation and dumping of the earth/soil
upto one lac and six thousand cubic meters was entered in COMS No. 3 of 2023 their Measurement Book (MB) in the defendant record
`Mark-G' (four leaves). The proposal send by the AGM
of the defendants to his Zonal Office was not accepted by
the Zonal office and they declined to pay any amount
under item No. 141 of the BOQ. On 15.05.2019, the
plaintiff firm raised the fourth bill `Mark-H', to the
defendants but to the utter surprise of the plaintiff firm the
defendants adjusted all the payments made earlier to the
plaintiff firm under item No. 141 of the BOQ, which were
paid under Bill 1 to 3 and did not pay the amount which
was raised in the fourth bill pertaining to item No. 141 of
BOQ. Thereafter, the plaintiff company came to know
that the defendants have denied the all the payments qua
item No. 141 of the BOQ. The information to that effect
was also received by the plaintiff firm vide letter dated
31.05.2019 `Mark-J'. Thereafter the plaintiff firm
contacted the General Manager of the defendants and
raised out grievances vide letter Ex.PW-1/E. The plaintiff
firm again vide letter dated 06.09.2019, Ex.PW-1/F, send
a notice under Clause 25 (1) of the Contract Agreement,
which is Ex.PW-1/F. On the notice of the plaintiff firm
the defendants/Executive Director Engineering, Delhi
constituted a committee and the committee authorized the
General Manager of the defendants to give the reply qua
the notice send by the plaintiff firm, who had already
rejected the claim of the plaintiff firm. The plaintiff firm
excavated the earth in total about 1.53 lacs cubic meters as COMS No. 3 of 2023 due to the excavation of the land slopes/gradients were
changed. After the completion of excavation work about
one lacs six thousand cubic meters, the additional work
which was done by the plaintiff firm qua the excavation
and dumping of about 47000 cubic meters, the defendants
paid us on the basis of market rates prevailing at that time
instead of rates mentioned in the contract as well as for
covering the extra distance of seven Kms. The
defendants clubbed all the rates as per their convenience
and paid the composite amount of Rs.416/- per cubic
meter. The additional work was executed by the plaintiff
firm in the year 2021. The defendants gave the approval
for dumping and excavation about 47000 cubic meters
after two years, due to which the plaintiff firm could not
proceed further for the construction work and the prices of
the material and other ancillary has also increased by that
time. Since the defendants did not adhere to the terms and
conditions of the agreement and did not pay the amount
due to the plaintiff firm as per the contract, the plaintiff
firm was constrained to file the present suit for the
payment of the work done by them. As of date the work
on the site is going on as the defendants has given the
extension for completion of the work up till 31.07.2024. xxx xxx xxx Shri Peeyush Verma, Advocate,
 for the defendants. The owner of the plaintiff firm is Shri Anand
Raj Jhawar. As of date Shri Anand Raj Jhawar is in the
State of Assam due to the other business purposes. It is
incorrect that Shri Anand Raj Jhawar is hail and hearty,
however, he is fit to make statement. Self stated that he
has executed the Special Power of Attorney to lookafter
this case. It is incorrect that I have stepped into the
present dispute only at the stage of the filing of the case.
Self stated that I was also looking after the work of the
present project in dispute. It is correct that before my
authority as Special Power of Attorney Shri Rajinder
Jhawar was Special Power of Attorney Holder of Shri
Anand Raj Jhawar. It is incorrect that before the
execution of the Special Power of Attorny in my favour
Shri Anand Raj Jhawar and Shri Rajinder Jhawar were
dealing with the defendants qua this project. Self stated
that they were leading the project with the defendants and
I was also associating them under their command. It is
correct that I have not personally made any
communication pertaining to this project with the
defendants. It is correct that the plaintiff firm received the
letter of acceptance pertaining to this project vide letter
dated 10.04.2018, which Ex. D-1. It is correct that the
letter of commencement of the project was issued to the
plaintiff firm vide letter dated 26.04.2018, which is Ex. D- 2. The completion period of the present project was 18
months. It is correct that before the finalization of the COMS No. 3 of 2023 BOQ, the AGM of the defendants vide letter dated
12.02.2018, Ex. D-3, had sought the clarification
pertaining to item No. 141. It is correct that vide letter
dated 20.02.2018, Ex. D-4, a response was received from
the office of General Manager (Engg.) stating to take
action as per the provision of BOQ of MTF. It is correct
that vide letter dated 10.04.2019, Ex. D-5, the AGM
again sought the clarification from the General Manager
Civil Engineer FCI, Regional Office Chandigarh. It is
correct that vide letter dated 10.05.2019, Ex. D-6, again
the clarification was received whereby it has been stated
that the rate pertaining to item No.141 will be as per BOQ.
It is correct that vide letter dated 31.05.2019, Ex. D-7, the
AGM Engg. Informed the plaintiff firm about the said
fact. It is correct that thereafter vide letter dated
06.06.2019 Ex. D-8, and letter dated 06.09.2019, Ex. D-
9, the plaintiff firm made a representation to defendants.
It is correct that on the representation of the plaintiff firm,
the defendants constituted a committee of GM (Engg.)
HQRS, FCI, GM (Engg. NZ) and GM (Legal) HQRS,
which submitted its report which is Ex. D-10 ( 10 leaves).
It is correct that the decision of the committee was
communicated to the plaintiff firm vide letter dated
21.01.2020, Ex. D-11. I am not aware that after the
receipt of the communication EX.D-11, the plaintiff firm
has made a representation to the CMD of the defendants
on 03.02.2020. It is correct that in reference to COMS No. 3 of 2023 representation dated 03.02.2020 a communication was
received vide letter dated 24.03.2020 EX.D-12. It is
correct that the plaintiff firm received a communication
dated 22.11.2022, EX.D-13 (five leaves) qua not doing
the work within the prescribed period and slow progress of
the work. It is correct that thereafter the plaintiff firm
received reminders dated 29.11.2022, 16.12.2022,
03.01.2023, 11.01.2023, 12.01.2023, 23.01.2023, and
27.01.2023, which Ex. D-14 to Ex. D-20, respectively. It
is incorrect that the plaintiff company has received a show
cause notice `Mark-K'. I do not remember whether any
response was made by the plaintiff firm regarding the
reminders which are Ex. D-14 to D-20. I do not remember
whether the any response was given by the plaintiff firm
to the notice `Mark-K'. I have not placed on record any
document from which it could be inferred that FCI has
given the extension up till 31.07.2024. It is correct that in Para-7 of the plaint it has
been mentioned that the expression all Leads and Lifts
under item No. 140 was clarified by the defendants
themselves upto 50 meters or within the plot area. Self
stated that pertaining to that a letter dated 10.04.2019, Ex.
D-5., has been annexed on record and Delhi Schedule
Rates (DSR) has already been annexed on record. It is
correct that it has been specifically mentioned in para-9 of
the plaint that defendant No.5 was well within his power
under delegation of powers as well as terms of the
 agreement to modify the distance and rates under item No.
141 applicable for disposal of earth as per functional
requirements/conditions prevalent on site. To that effect a
letter dated 11.03.2019 Mark-`B', was received from the
AGM (Civil). After the adjustment of the payments in the
fourth bill against item No. 141 of BOQ, the plaintiff firm
made the representation qua release of the payments of
pertaining to item No.141, which are in the document Ex.
PW-1/F. Vide letter date 11.03.2019 Mark -B issued by
the defendants, the defendants asked the plaintiff firm to
locate any other suitable dumping site for the excavated
material. Self stated that there was no instruction in the
said letter qua stopping the dumping of the excavated
earth. It is incorrect that since the plaintiff firm could not
executed the work well in time, therefore, in order to
pressurize the defendants a false case has been filed
against the defendants. It is incorrect that as per the terms
of the BOQ the defendants are not liable to pay any
amount pertaining to item No. 141. It is incorrect that the
defendants never gave any concession to the plaintiff firm
regarding all leads and lifts to be restricted only upto 50
meters under item No. 140. It is incorrect that I am not
aware about the entire factual position of the present case
and therefore, I am not competent to testify on behalf of
the plaintiff firm. It is incorrect that I am deposing false.
R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 c COMS No. 3 of 2023 05.07.2024
 Present: Ms. Madhu P. Singh and Shri P.P. Singh,
 Advocates a/w Shri Praveen Chauhan, Advocate
 for the plaintiff. Shri Peeyush Verma, Advocate, with Shri Ajay
 Sharma, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 to 5. Statement of Shri Shashank Jhawar, is
 recorded as PW-1. Let the Pws at Sl. No. 2 and 3 in
 the list of witnesses be summoned for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Submitted that this is to inform you that
 there is no separate Data Unit in our High Court and
 one Clerk has been deputed to deal with such matters.
 However, this Data Unit can be created by appointing
 separate professional staff. Moreover, the matter pertaining to
 establishment of Separate Data Unit comprising of
 professional staff for handling of analysis of the
 Judicial Data pertains to the Establishment Branch.
 Therefore, Ld. Registrar (IT) is requested to send the
 said information to the concerned Branch. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

Ld. Registrar (IT)
 Submitted that this is to inform you that
there is no separate Data Unit in our High Court and
one Clerk has been deputed to deal with such matters.
However, this Data Unit can be created by appointing
separate professional staff. Moreover, the matter pertaining to
establishment of Separate Data Unit comprising of
professional staff for handling of analysis of the
Judicial Data pertains to the Establishment Branch.
Therefore, the information as above is submitted for
information and necessary action at your end. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 06.07.2024

Ld. Registrar (IT) Civil Suit No. 114 of 2021 PW-1
 Statement of Ms. Kanak Gour, Senior
 Technical Assistant, Office of Registrar of
 Companies, Delhi and Haryana, Nehru Place,
 New Delhi. On Oath
 08.07.2024

 I am working as Senior Technical Assistant in
the office of Registrar of Companies, Delhi and Haryana,
Nehru Place, Delhi, from the year 2014. I have brought
the original requisitioned record. I have been duly
authorized vide office order dated 04.07.2024, Ex. PW-
1/A, by Deputy Registrar of the Companies to adduce and
make statement on his behalf and present the record. I
have brought certified copies of certificate of
incorporation of plaintiff company, which is Ex. PW-1/B.
The list of the present Directors is Ex. PW-1/C, and Form
32 of Shri N.S. Ghumman is Ex. PW-1/D. The certified
copy of the information of the company with the Ministry
of Corporate Affair is Ex. PW-1/E. All the above said
documents are computer generated and the certificate
under Section 63 (4) of Bhartiya Sakshaya Adhinium 2023
is Ex.PW-1/F, which has been duly issued by Deputy
Registrar of Companies NCT Delhi and I identify his
signature, which is in red Circle `A'. xxx xxx xxx Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate
 vice Shri Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate ,
 for defendants No. 2 and 3. It is correct that I have not brought the record
pertaining to the change in the Directorship of the plaintiff
company. Self stated that it has not been requisitioned
from the Registrar of the Companies. xxx xxx xxx Shri Somesh Sharma, Advocate,
 vice Shri Karun Negi, Advocate for
 defendant No. 1. I adopt the cross examination by defendants
No. 2 and 3. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

8th July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 114 of 2021 08.07.2024
Present: Shri Navneet Bhalla, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Shri Somesh Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri Karun
 Negi, Advocate, for defendant No.1. Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate, vice Shri Ajeet Pal
 Singh Jaswal, Advocate for defendants No. 2 and 3.

 Statement of Ms. Kanak Gour, is recorded
 as PW-1. Learned vice counsel for the defendants
 submit that they have no objection in case this
 particular is examined prior to the examination of the
 plaintiff. Therefore, this witness is examined today
 prior to the examination of the plaintiff. Shri Rakesh Kumar Verma, Shri N.S.
 Ghumman and Shri Manoj Tiwari are also present
 today, but the learned vice counsel for the defendants
 No. 2 and 3 submits that due to the non-availability of
 learned Senior Counsel, due to exigency in his family,
 he seeks adjournment for cross examination of these
 witnesses. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has not
 objected to the request made by the learned counsel for
 defendants No. 2 and 3. Accordingly, the other witnesses, who are
 present today are discharged. Let the witness at Sl.
 No. 1 and 3 in the list of witnesses be produced on self
 responsibility by the plaintiff and fresh summons be
 issued for the service of PW, mention at Sl. No. 4 on
 taking fresh steps within fifteen days for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th July, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 23 of 2020 08.07.2024
 Present: Shri Shashi Shirshoo, Advocate for the
 petitioner. Shri Abhishek Nagta, vice counsel for the
 respondents. As per office report, the verification pertaining to
 Bank Guarantee bearing No. 0506224BG0000241, dated
 09.04.2024, has been received from the State Bank of India,
 Mohali, Punjab, which has been confirmed to be issued by the
 said Bank. Accordingly, the Bank guarantee furnished by the
 applicant-respondent is accepted. Let the matter be further processed in terms of the
 order dated 27.03.2024, of the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th July 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4062 of 2013 09.07.2024
 Present: Shri Somesh Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri Karun
 Negi, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate for the defendant. As per office report, summons for Dws could not
 be issued since the steps have not been taken by the defendant. Learned counsel for the defendant seeks some
 more time for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter the process be issued for the service of Dws returnable
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th July 2024
(Pritam) Ex. Pet. No. 27 of 2010 09.07.2024: Present: Ms. Drishti Sirswal, Advocate vice
 Mr. Balwant Kukreja, for the
 petitioner/DH

 None for the respondent/JDs. Steps for proclamation and warrant of
 sale have been taken. Let the warrant of sale be issued
 as per the following shedule:- As per the record brought by me the GD entry No.12 (A)
Mark `C', now Ex. PW-6/A (objected to on the ground
that in original record Mark `C', is photocopy) and an
application dated 15.04.2014 mark 'B' addressed to
SHO Police Station by Apple Royal Merchant is on record
brought by me today. The application dated 15.03.2014
Ex.PW 5/F is also on record brought by me (Original
seen and returned). xxx xxx xxx Shri Piyush Verma, Advocate ,
 for defendants No. 5 and 6. It is correct that the record brought by me
today pertains to the cancellation of the FIR No.9/2014,
dated 20.03.2014 registered at Police Station New Shimla.
It is correct that as per record the complainant was duly
served on 1.8.2015 and he has put his appearance through
his counsel in the Court. It is correct that as per the record
after repeated opportunities the complainant had filed the
objections on 27.02.2023. It is correct that the cancellation
report is still pending adjudication before Court No. 6. xxx xxx xxx By Jeevesh Sharma for
 defendants No. 1 to 4. I adopt the cross examination by defendants
No. 5 and 6 . R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 48 of 2023 10.07.2024: Present: Shri Ajay Kumar Dhiman,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Madhurika Sekhon, Advocate,
 for the defendant. As per the order dated 06.05.2024, the
 plaintiff has to produce his witnesses on self
 responsibility. However, learned counsel for the
 plaintiff submits that the witnesses are not present
 today and he seeks adjournment for today. The adjournment sought by the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff is not objected by the learned
 counsel for the defendant. Accordingly the matter is
 adjourned for today. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for plaintiff's
 evidence on which date the witnesses shall be
 produced by the plaintiff on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 11 of 2016 09.07.2024: Present: Mr. Parmod Thakur, Advocate for the
 plaintiff. Mr. Jeevesh Sharma, Advocate for
 defendants No. 1 to4. Mr. Peeyush Verma, Advocate for defendants NO. 5 and 6 As per the office report Sh. Imran Khan,
 witness mentioned at serial No.1 in the list of witness
 is duly served despite repeated calls but none appeared
 on his behalf. Witness mentioned at serial No. 2 in the
 list of witness is also served who is present in the
 Court and her (Ms.Ruchika Chauhan) statement is
 recorded as PW-6. Let the fresh summons to witness mentioned at
 serial No.1 in the list of witness along with the notice
 Under Order 16 Rule 12 CPC be issued to this witness
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 Judicial. Fresh steps for the service of witness
 mentioned at serial No.1 be taken within three days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 853 of 2017 RW-1
 Statement of Shri Rajesh Kumar, S/o Shri Devi
 Ram, aged 39 years, presently working as
 Deputy Manager, office of United India
 Insurance Company Ltd. Timber House,
 Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.07.2024

 I am working with respondent No.3, as Deputy
Manager, from April, 2023. I am conversant with the
facts of the present case and I have seen the contemporary
record pertaining to this case. The award in the present
case has been passed by the learned Tribunal in the
presence of the counsel of all the parties. The passing of
award in question was well within the knowledge of the
applicant and their counsel. After the passing of the award
in the present case, the Insurance Company respondent
No.3, had filed one Execution Petition before the learned
MACT for recovery of the amount deposited qua no fault
liability, since the liability under the award was fastened
upon the owner of the vehicle. The applicant was well
aware about the passing of the award and he has
intentionally and willingly not filed the appeal well in
time. xxx xxx xxx Shri Diwan Singh Negi,
 Advocate , for applicant-appellant. It is incorrect that I am not personally aware
about the facts of the present case. It is correct that on the
date of passing of the award, I was not personally present CMP(M) No. 853 of 2017 in the Court. Self stated that as per the record the presence
of the Advocates has been mentioned in the award. I do
not know that due to the non-communication by the
concerned Advocate at Dehra, to the original counsel Shri
S.K. Soni at Dharamshala, the applicant could not come to
know about the passing of the award. I do not know that
only on the receipt of the notice in the Execution Petition,
the applicant came to know about the passing of the award
by the learned Tribunal. It is incorrect that the vehicle
involved in the accident in the present case was insured
with respondent-company. It is incorrect that the
applicant was vigilant enough and was unaware about the
passing of the award from the date of the passing of the
award. It is incorrect that the applicant has sufficient
cause for not filing the appeal within time. xxx xxx xxx By Shri Ajay Chandel for
 respondents No. 1 and 2. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 853 of 2017 Statement of Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for
 non-applicant-respondent No.3 High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh. Without Oath
 11.07.2024

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
non-applicant-Respondent No.3. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 853 of 2017 Statement of Shri Ajay Chandel, Advocate, for
 respondent No. 1 and 2, High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh. Without Oath
 11.07.2024

 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
on behalf of respondents No. 1 and 2. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th July, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 853 of 2017 11.07.2024 Present:- Accordingly, the matter be listed before

 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 15th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 6553 of 2020 in RSA No. 602 of 2019
 17.07.2024
 Present: Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice counsel for
 the applicant. Ms. Shashi Kiran, Advocate, vicde Ms. Seema
 K. Guleria, Advocate for respondents No. 1 to
 5/appellant. already ex-parte. As per the office report, steps for summoning
 RW-3, (Shri Chaman Lal) has not been filed yet.
 Learned vice counsel for the applicant seeks some
 more time. Let the steps for summoning of the witness Shri
 Chaman Lal be taken within fifteen days, thereafter
 the process be issued for his service. Moreover, let the other witnesses i.e. Shri Vijay
 Chauhan and Deep Chauhan shall also be produced
 on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Regtistrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th July 2024
 (Pritam) RSA No. 663 of 2015 17.07.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for the
 appellants. Ms. Shashi Kiran, Advocate, vice Shri D.N.
 Ronta, Advocate, for respondents. In compliance to the order dated 13.12.2017/
 13.06.2024, the respondent No.1 (Shri Durga Singh)
 has filed the security bond duly supported by
 affidavit along with the copy of Jamabandi for the
 year 2017-2018, duly issued on 20.06.2024 and the
 valuation report of the Revenue Officer dated
 20.06.2024. I have gone through the security bonds as well
 as the documents annexed therewith and the security
 furnished by respondent No.1, is accepted
 accordingly. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for further orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th July 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 33 of 2018 16.07.2024
 Present: Shri Peeyush Verma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri B.M. Chauhan, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Kamakshi, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2. Ms. Aruna Chauhan, Advocate, for defendant
 No.3. Shri Peeyush Verma, learned counsel for the
 plaintiff submits that the plaintiff is present today
 but he has not brought the original documents, which
 are required to be produced and proved by him in
 accordance with law. Therefore, he seeks adjournment for recording
 his statement today. Learned counsel for the
 plaintiff vide his separate statement further submits
 that he does not want to examine witness Shri
 Shalender mentioned at Sl. No.1, who is also present
 in the Court. Accordingly, the plaintiff is discharged
 for today. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility on the next date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th July 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 33 of 2018 Statement of Shri Peeyush Verma, Advocate,
 for the plaintiff. Without Oath
 16.07.2024

 Stated that I do not want to examine Shri
Shalender and accordingly, I give him up. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

16th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 COMS No. 19 of 2019 a/w CS (Counter Claim) No. 77 of 2019

 17.07.2024
 Present: Shri Sumit Himalvi, Advocate, vice Shri
 Ravinder Singh Chandel, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff/non-counter claimant. Shri Ishan Raghuwanshi, Advocate, vice Shri
 Navneet Kumar Bhalla, Advocate, for the
 defendants/counter claimants. Plaintiff Smt. Vijay Verma, is present today,
 but learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 due to the fracture in his leg, he is not in a position to
 come to the Court and seeks adjournment. Learned vice counsel for the defendants did not
 oppose the request of the learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Let the plaintiff as well as PW, mentioned at Sl.
 No.2 (Shri Om Prakash Verma) be produce on self
 responsibility on the next date i.e. 03.10.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th July 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 62 of 2019 18.07.2024
 Present: Ms. Poonam Gahlot, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate
 General, for defendants No. 1 to 3. Shri N.K. Sood, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Aman Sood, Advocate along with Shri Hemant
 Kumar defendant No.4. Learned counsel for the parties have jointly
 request to adjourned the matter as certain documents
 is required to be obtained. Since the request is jointly made by the parties,
 therefore, the matter is adjourned for today. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th July 2024
 (Pritam)
 19.07.2024 Present: Respondent No.8 stands deleted. Respondents No. 9 to 11 ex-parte. As per the office report applicant is required
 to be produced on self responsibility. However, learned
 vice counsel for the applicant submits that due to his ill
 health, he could not come to the Court today. Learned
 counsel further submits that he will produce the applicant
 on next date of hearing
 Let the case be listed before Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) for fixing the date of AWs on which date the
 the witness be produced on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

RW-4 Statement of Shri Netar Singh, S/o Shri
 Palas Ram, aged about 55 years, R/o
 Village Bhaled , P.O. Barigumanu, Tehsil
 Sadar, District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 23.07.2024
 I am Mason by profession. Shri Devi
 Singh and his son Sanjeev are known to me. I use
 to do repair work in their old house thereafter
 they engaged me in the year 2008 to raise 12
 pillars in the ground floor and first floor. After
 the year 2008, I did not raise any construction
 over the suit land. My house is about 15 Kms.,
 from the suit land. I use to pass from the said site
 frequently while going to my house. I have not
 seen any fresh construction over that site after
 2008. address. It is correct that while going from Mandi
 to my village the place Mangwain did not come in
 between. It is incorrect that I did not pass though
 the suit site after 2008. Whenever I use to pass
 through the site which were constructed by me I
 use to ask the said owner any further work being
 done by them in which his services are required. I
 use to visit Devi Singh three four time for asking
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

as to whether he wants to raise further
construction. He declined for raising further
construction at that time. I asked from Devi Singh
about two years ago for raising the construction.
It is incorrect that in the year 2017, I raise the
pillars on the first floor of the suit property. It is
incorrect that in the year 2017 Shri Ashok Kumar,
made a complaint to the police and police visited
the spot and stopped me and the other labourers
from raising the construction on that site. It is
incorrect that the police also informed me that
the High Court has ordered the stay qua that suit
property. It is correct that I have come to the
Court today alongwith the son of Shri Devi Singh.
It is incorrect that on the asking of the son of Shri
Devi Singh I am deposing false today. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

23rd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017

 Statement of Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 the non-applicant-appellant. Without Oath
 23.07.2024

 I close the evidence on behalf of the non-
applicant since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

23rd July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1528 of 2022 in RSA No. 111 of 2017
23.07.2024 Present: 24.07.2024 Present: 25.07.2024 Present: Shri Bharat Thakur, Advocate, for the non-
 applicants No. 1, 2 and 4 to 6. Name of applicant No.3 already stands
 deleted. . As per order dated 08.04.2024, the case was
ordered to be listed before the Hon'ble Court, as despite
opportunities the applicants had not produced their
witnesses. Vide order dated 01.05.2024, the Hon'ble Court
has granted last opportunity for taking the steps for AWs.
However, no steps have been taken. Despite last opportunity
learned vice counsel for the applicants is seeking time for
producing the AWs, as no witness is present today. Since the last opportunity has already been
granted by the Hon'ble Court, therefore, the matter be listed
before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 29.07.2024
 Present: Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior Advocatge with
 Ms. Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for non-applicants

 Ms. Narvada, Advocate Shri Ajay Vaidya,
 Advocate, for non-applicant respondent No.4. Shri Vishwas Kaushal, Advocate, vice Shri
 Suneet Goel, Advocate, for non-applicant-
 respondent No.5. One witness Shri Hira Lal is present today but
 learned vice counsel for the non-applicant seeks
 adjournment on the ground that the original senior counsel
 is out of station. Learned counsel for the applicants has no
 objection in case the adjournment is granted. Accordingly,
 the matter is adjourned for today for the AWs. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that
 she will bring sole remaining witness Shri Hira Lal on the
 next date of hearing for adducing his evidence. As per the list of witnesses the other witnesses
 have already been examined. Let the case be listed before
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing next date for
 remaining AWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 RW-3 Shri Krishan Gopal, S/o Shri Tej Ram,
 aged about 52 years, Village Dharabag,
 P.O. Dughilag, Tehsil and District
 Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 29.07.2024

 My father Shri Tej Ram had died in the year
2013 or 2014. My father had executed lease deeds with
Usaka Hydro Power in the year 2012. No lease deed was
executed by my father with Gaur Hydro Power Project.
After the death of my father me and my brother have not
executed any lease deed with any of the Hydro Project.
We have not raised any construction on Khasra numbers
of the suit property nor we have authorized any other
persons or Power Project to raise construction over our
property. The road on our property is pre-existing. Me
and my bother have not allowed any person or Power
Project to dump their material in our property. The
orchard on our land has come to an end due to the non
caring of the orchard. We have not disobeyed the orders
of the Hon'ble High Court at any point of time. xxx xxx xxx Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior
 Advocate, with Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate for applicants. We are five brothers and four sisters. I do not
know that in the year 2014 one application had been
against my father regarding disobedience of the order of
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

the Court and my father had filed reply to that application
in the Court. It is incorrect that after the death of my
father me and my brothers orally agreed to lease out the
suit property to Gaur and Usaka Hydro Projects for using
the same. I have not placed on record any lease deed
executed by my father with Usaka Hydro Project. My
father told me about the execution of the lease deed with
Usaka Hydro Power Project. Self stated that after the
execution of lease deed Usaka Hydro Power Project use to
pay rent for the use of our land. It is correct that we have
lost the case in both the lower Courts. My father use to
sign in English. I identify the signature of my father on
the reply to CMP NO. 6333 of 2014, as well as affidavit
annexed therewith. I am 10+2 Pass. I barely read and
understand English. It is correct that on the suit land big
stones are lying. Self stated that they are due to the flood
in the Nallah. Near to the pole apparent in photograph
Mark A-4, there is one PWD bridge which is on the
Nallah, however, that bridge is not apparent on
photograph Mark A-4. At the time of visit of the Local
Commissioner, the stones were lying in the Nallah. I do
not know the Khasra numbers of the land on which the
stones came from Nallah. The suit land was having two
khasra numbers, however, I do not know the total Khasra
numbers after settlement. It is incorrect that we are taking
rent from Gaur Hydro Project till date. The lease deed
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

was executed by my father for one year only. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false today. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Narvada, Advocate, vice
 Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate for respondents
 No.4 and 5. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 RW-4 Shri Mangal Chand, S/o Shri Khub Ram,
 aged about 63 years, Village Suma,
 P.O. Dughilag, Tehsil and District
 Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 29.07.2024

 Shri Tej Ram and his family members are
known to me. I have seen the suit land and it is about 1 ½
Kms., from my house. I use pass through the said land as
and when I had to go to Dispensary and Bank. I am not
aware that the family members of Shri Tej Ram has rented
/leased out the said property to any Hydro Projects and
any other person. There is one road in the suit property
which leads to the Project, however, I do not know since
when the said road was constructed. The said road was in
existence prior to the death of Shri Tej Ram. I am not
aware whether after the death of Shri Tej Ram, his sons
have raised any construction over the suit land or not. xxx xxx xxx Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior
 Advocate, with Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate. I use to ply Auto and I frequently use the road
which is on the suit property. It is incorrect that in
September, 2016, the road in question was being
constructed. Self stated that the said road had already
been constructed prior to the year 2016. I do not know
that in September, 2016, the JCBs were deputed for the
construction of the said road. I do not know that the
 owner of the suit land is Shri Hira Lal S/o Shri Tej Ram
resident of Dhugilag. It is correct that Hira Lal is my
villager. I do not know the Khasra numbers of the road on
the suit land. I do not know who is the owner of the land
on which the road is passing through. It is correct that I
have come to the Court today along with Gopal Krishan in
the same vehicle and met Advocate of Shri Gopal Krishan
and the learned counsel for the respondents has briefed
about the statement. It is correct that I have deposed today
as briefed by the counsel. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false today. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Narvada, Advocate, vice
 Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate for respondents
 No.4 and 5. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP(M) 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 29.07.2024
 Present: Shri Bimal Gupta, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 applicants. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, vice Mr.
 Sanjeev Sood, Advocate, for non-applicants
 No. 1 to 3. Ms. Narvada, Advocate, vice Shri Ajay
 Vaidya, Advocate, for non-applicant No.4
 and 5. Statement of Shri Krishan Gopal and Shri
 Mangal Chand are recorded as RW-3 and RW-4. Let the sole remaining witness Shri Alam
 Chand be summoned for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th July, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit 27 of 2016
30.07.2024 Present:- 31.07.2024

 I am working in Punjab and Sindh Bank, Solan
from 10.01.2023. I have been duly authorized by Senior
Manager, Punjab and Sindh Bank, Solan to adduce
evidence on behalf of the Bank vide letter dated
30.07.2024, Ex. PW-2/A. I have brought the summoned
record. The duly attested copies of the cheques issued in
favour of Rajesh Kumar on different dates are
Ex.PW-2/B-1 to Ex. PW-2/B-7 (objected to on the mode
of proof). The certified copies of the statement of
accounts issued as per the Banker Book Evidence Act of
Pulse Hospital is Ex. PW-2/C ( 23 leaves). The certified
copy of the statement of Shri Rajesh Kumar issued as per
Banker Book Evidence Act is Ex. PW-2/B (three leaves). xxx xxx xxx Ms. Rinki Kashmiri, Advocate, vice Shri
 Janesh Gupta Advocate for defendant No.1. The Bank use to maintain the record pertaining
to cheques for 10 years. xxx xxx xxx Shri Vinod Chauhan for defendant No.2. The account of Shri Rajesh Kumar, defendant
No.2, is with our Bank. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

31st July, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 31.07.2024 Present:- xxx xxx xxx Ms. Madhurika Sekhon,
 Advocate, for respondent. I was having the mobile number of my Advocate at
Kullu. Self stated that at present I am not having his phone
number. It is incorrect that my counsel at Kullu used to update
me regarding my case through whats app message. I used to
 visit my native place rarely since 2010. The forth death
 anniversary of my mother was on 29 th May, 2023 due to which
 I visited my native place in April ,2023 for making the
 arrangements. I came to know about the decision of the case
 when I visited the office of my counsel at Kullu. Self stated
 that my counsel generally do not pick the phone whenever I
 used to call him. It is incorrect that I was well aware about the
 decision of the case in the year 2023 but just to harass the
 respondent I do not file the appeal in time. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

02nd August, 2024
 (gaurav)
 Statement of Sh. B.S.Atri, Advocate for applicant-
 appellant. Without Oath
 o2.08.2024. I do not want to examine any other witness and
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicant. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

02nd August, 2024
 (gaurav)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1666 of 2023 in Cr. Rev
02.08.2024 Present:- Stated that as per the instructions received

from her client he is not ready to deposit the road and diet

money and not willing to examine any witness. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 05th August, 2024
 (Pritam
 CMP(M) No. 1280 pf 2022

 AW-1 Shri Kamlesh Kumar S/o Shri Tulsi Ram
 aged about 44 years R/o Village Jathoth,
 P.O. Navgaon, Tehsil Darla, District
 Solan, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 06.08.2024

 I came to know about the decision of the
reference petition just about two-three years ago. Due illness
in the family, I could not file the appeal well in time. My son
had died in the year 2018, who was about 19 years at that time.
Due to the set back I could not approach the Court. In the year
2022, I came to know about the decision of the similar
reference petitions in which the compensation has been granted
by the respondents (NTPC). My father use to lookafter the
reference proceedings in the Lower Court. Our land has also
been acquired vide the same notification but the compensation
has not been granted to us and our reference petition has been
dismissed by the reference Court. I also came to know in RFA
No. 363 of 2015, the Hon'ble High Court has enhanced the
compensation of the persons whose land have been acquired in
my village. xxx xxx xxx Shri Jagdish Thakur, Advocate,
 for respondent No.1. I do not know when the reference Court gave its
decision. I do not know whether the reference Court has
awarded any compensation to us or not. I do not know how
many people have filed the present appeal. It is correct that I
do not know about the averments made in the application,
however, I have filed the appeal for enhancement of the
 CMP(M) No. 1280 pf 2022

 compensation. It is correct that ten persons have filed the
 present appeal. All the appellants except me are hail and
 healthy. I have not annexed any documents pertaining to my
 ill health with the present application. It is correct that there is
 an averment in my application that the reference Court has
 decided the reference petition 02.06.2014. I do not know that
 one Review Petition has been filed by the parties before the
 reference Court which was decided on 13.11.2014. It is
 correct that in the reference petition as well as in Review
 Petition we were duly represented by our counsel. It is
 incorrect that I came to know about the decision of the
 reference Court only two years ago. It is incorrect that I am
 deposing false in order to get the enhanced compensation. xxx xxx xxx Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the respondent. I adopt the cross examination of respondent No.1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

06th August, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1280 pf 2022

 Shri Abhishek Sharma, Advocate, for
 the applicant. Withour Oath
 06.08.2024

 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicant. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

06th August, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1280 pf 2022

 Shri Jagdish Thakur, Advocate, for
 respondent No.1. Withour Oath
 06.08.2024

 I do not want to lead any evidence on behalf of
 respondent No.1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

06th August, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1280 pf 2022

 Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General for proforma
 respondent. Without Oath
 06.08.2024

 I do not want to lead any evidence on behalf of
 proforma respondent. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

06th August, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1280 of 2022 06.08.2024 Present:- 07.08.2024
 Present: Shri Balwant Singh Thakur, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri Karan Veer Singh, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 due to his examination, the plaintiff could not come to the
 Court for adducing his evidence. Learned counsel seeks
 adjournment for today. Let the plaintiff be produce on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 28 of 2014 08.08.2024
 Present: Ms. Narvada, learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff. Shri J.K. Sharma, Additional Advocate
 General, for the defendants. As per the office report, steps for summoning
 the DWs have not been taken by the defendants. Learned
 Additional Advocate General seeks time for doing the
 needful. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter, the process be issued for the service of witnesses
 of DWs for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th August, 2024
 (Pritam) CARBC No. 5 of 2020 08.08.2024
 Present: Shri Tarun Jeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for
 the petitioner. Ms. Shreya Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 respondents. The Bank Guarantee furnished by the
 respondents has been duly verified by the State Bank of
 India Comm. Branch, Chandigarh confirming that the Bank
 Guarantee has been issued by the said Branch. Accordingly
 the same is accepted. Let the needful be done immediately in
 compliance of the order dated 05.08.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 PW-1 Shri Venkatachalapathy, S/o Shri P.N.
 Sriniwasan aged about 60 years, R/o Plot
 No.12, Aveaiyar Street, Adambakkam,
 Chennai-600088. On Oath
 09.08.2024

 Stated that I am duly authorized representative
of plaintiff Company and I have been duly authorized by
the company vide Board Resolution dated 12.12.2018, to
initiate the Civil Suit and to sign and depose on behalf of
the plaintiff Company. The Board Resolution is Ex. PW-
1/A. On 22.06.2015, one of the Member of the defendant
Society Shri Jorabar send an email dated 22.06.2015, to the
plaintiff company and asked for the quotation for the purpose
of setting up Diary Processing Plant. Then the plaintiff
company send the quotation to the defendant society through e
mail quoting an amount of Rs. 1,70,83,000/- for supply and
installation of the equipment for the Diary Processing Plant
which was excluding piping, transportation and other taxes.
Thereafter, on 30.06.2015, I visited the place of defendant
society for discussion, negotiation and finalization.
The negotiation with the defendants society went for two to
four days. The Members of the defendant society told me that
they have budget constrained and asked me to reduce the price
by reducing the specification and the bought out items and
piping. Thereafter the parties to the lis entered to an agreement
dated 03.07.2015, Ex. PW-1/B, regarding the supply of the
Diary Plant equipment. As per the agreement the cost of the
entire Diary Plant was agreed to Rs. 1,50,00,000/- (One crorer Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 fifty lacs) It is further agreed that the defendant will produce
Form-C for 2% of tax. It is further agreed that if the defendant
society will not provide Form-C 2%, then they have to pay 5%
VAT. After eight days from the execution of the agreement
the defendant society asked through email for the layout
diagram to which the plaintiff company sent an email on
13.07.2015 attaching preliminary layout and the copies of the
email are Ex. PW-1/C-1. Thereafter, plaintiff company sent
Engineer to the place of defendant society for marking the
layout and foundation. The defendant society started to seek
clarification on the layout which were responded through
telephone call and based on the discussion the final layout was
provided on 01.08.2015, through email which Ex. PW-1/C-2
and other mails regarding the queries of the defendant society
are Ex. PW-1/C-3 to Ex. PW-1/C-5. Thereafter the defendant
society approached the Government authority regarding
electrical layout to their Plant and location of the utilities such
as Steam Boiler, Cooling Tower, Effluent Treatment Plant etc.
The defendant society had to undertake the entire Civil work
and other Government formalities and took the time for get the
permission from the concerned authority. In the meanwhile
the defendant society asked the plaintiff company to supply the
equipments of higher quality than agreed in the agreement Ex.
PW-1/B. Thereafter the plaintiff company informed the
defendant society that the change in the material would cause
escalation in the prices which will be informed to the
defendant society later on during execution of the work. The
defendant society agreed to the same and it was agreed that the
difference in the amount will be settled at the time of final Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 settlement of the final bill. Based upon the commitment of the
defendant society the plaintiff company started to supply the
material. On reaching the first lot of equipment in December
2015, the defendant society told the plaintiff company they
want all the equipment in the wooden packing instead of
normal bubble Sheet packing/standard packing as agreed in the
agreement. Thereafter, the plaintiff company send all the
equipment in the wooden packing as directed by the defendant
society. Thereafter, the defendant society sought the
clarification through email dated 23.02.2016, whether they
should put Kota stone for the flooring and the same was
replied by the plaintiff company through email on the same
day. As per the changed specification and directions the
plaintiff company started to execute the work on the site. The
agreed period for the execution of work was end of November,
2015 but due the changes in the layout and non-completion of
the Civil Work on the site the execution of the work could not
be completed within the stipulated period and it was nearing
completion in July, 2016. When the plaintiff company
approached the defendant society regarding increase in the cost
of the equipments due to change in the specification the
defendant company informed the plaintiff company that they
will arrange the third party verification for determining the
additional cost but the defendant society never arranged the
third party verification for the above said determination.
Thereafter, the defendant society did not allow to execute the
work by the staff of the plaintiff company and ask them to
leave the premises, while retaining all the tools, material and
equipments which was lying in the premises of the defendant Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 society. When the plaintiff company again approached the
defendant society, they did not allow staff of the plaintiff
company to enter in the premises, however, they were getting
the work executed through some other agency with our tools
and material. Thereafter, the plaintiff company raise the
dispute before the Registrar Co-operative society who
dismissed the claim of the plaintiff company for want of
jurisdiction. The plaintiff company also issued legal notice on
21.09.2016 under Section 76 of the Himachal Pradesh Co-
operative Societies Act , Ex. PW-1/D-1, which was not replied
by the defendant society and the postal receipt regarding
sending of the legal notice is Ex. PW-1/D-2 to D-3. The RADs
of the same are Ex. PW-1/D-4 and Ex. PW-1/D-5. The copy
of the order of the Registrar Co-operative Society is Ex. PW-
1/E, and the reply filed by the defendant society before the
Registrar Co-operative Society is Ex. PW-1/F. The Manager
namely Shri Senthil Kumar, who was deputed by the company
for the execution of the work of the defendant society, who had
already resigned from the plaintiff company was allured by the
defendant society for execution/ completion of the balance
work to avoid payment to the plaintiff company. The plaintiff
company did not authorize Shri Senthil Kumar, for the
execution of the work or to receive any payment on behalf of
the plaintiff company. The plaintiff company had supplied one
number of two KL tanks to the defendant society instead of
two tanks of one KL to reduce the maintenance and ease of
operation. Only four equipments i.e. Ghee Clarifier, Milk
Separator, incubation heaters and one more item were Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 remaining to be supplied by the plaintiff company at the time
when the defendant society did not allow to complete the
work. The approximate cost of the remaining four equipments
was about Rs. 10 lacs. The defendant society did not pay the
remaining outstanding amount of Rs.51,88,000/- for which the
plaintiff company is entitled. The communication inter-se
parties through email during different intervals, are Ex. PW-
1/G-1 to Ex. PW-1/G-21 and Mark A-1 to Mark A-6. The
copy of the resolution of the defendant society is Ex. PW-1/H.
The plaintiff company has only received payment
Rs.1,38,46,160/- till 04.07.2016. The bills regarding
difference in specification in the agreement and the actual
supplied by the plaintiff company have been annexed with the
present lis, which are Ex. PW-1/ J-1 to Ex. PW-1/J-97 and
verified by the Local Commissioner appointed by the Court,
who prepared the inventory to that effect. The Policy of the
Transit Insurance of the equipments is Ex. PW-1/K-1 to Ex.
PW-1/K-5. The plaintiff company had deputed ten persons for
the execution of the work of the defendant society. The
plaintiff company paid regular salary and expenses qua
boarding and lodging to its employees. The copies of the
salary slips are Ex. PW-1/L-1 to Ex. PW-1/L-32, (Original
seen and returned). I have also placed on record detail of
daily expenses, which is Ex. PW-1/M-1, which has been
prepared on the basis of daily expenses maintained which has
also been annexed. Similarly, travel expenses statement of the
employees is also annexed as Ex. PW-1/N, along with the
relevant record. The plaintiff company is entitled to an amount
of Rs.51,88,614/- along with interest. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neel Kamal Sharma,
 Advocate, for the defendant/counter
 claimant. I am B.Sc Chemistry, B.Sc. Oil Technology and
MBA. The plaintiff company is in this business since 2013.
Till today the plaintiff company had executed 39 Project which
includes Foreign Project also. It is correct that as per the
agreement Ex. PW-1/B, the plaintiff company had to complete
the entire work by November 2015. It is correct that as per the
agreement the plaintiff company had to develop equipment
location drawing, process flow diagram, equipment layout,
structural layout etc. plan. Shri Senthil Kumar has signed the
agreement as a witness. It is correct that as per the term No.
9.2, if anyone of the parties changed its legal status, its
authorized signatory, owners, Manager or any other
contractual parties then the parties have to notify the same to
the other party. The plaintiff company intimated about the
leaving of the Company by Shri Senthil Kumar. I do not
remember the date when the same fact was intimated to the
defendant society. The company has not annexed any
document with the suit qua the resignation of Shri Senthil
Kumar nor any document has been annexed regarding the
intimation given to the other party. It is incorrect that the
plaintiff company itself delayed the execution of the work on
site by delaying the final full plant layout to the defendant
company. It is correct that the first consignment of the
equipments of the plant were sent to the site in last week of
December, 2015. Self stated that since the site was not ready
and there was change in the specification of the equipments, Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 the first consignment was sent in December, 2015. The
company had already sent an email dated 23.02.2016 regarding
laying of Kota stone as asked by the defendant company in the
month of February, 2016. It is correct that as per the terms of
the agreement the defendant society was not supposed to pay
the salary and other boarding and lodging expenses to the staff
of the plaintiff company. It is correct that at the site, the
defendant society provided the lodging facility to the workers
of the plaintiff company. It is incorrect that the defendant
society had paid an amount of Rs. 1,43,36,100/- to the plaintiff
company till date. It is correct that the defendant society was
supposed to pay the entire amount except 15% of the total cost
of the Project which was required to be paid after the
completion of the Project. It is incorrect that the bills annexed
with the suit were procured by the company after 2022. On the
advise of our counsel the requisite original bills were filed after
the permission of the Court. It is incorrect that all the bills
which were subsequently filed are fabricated. Ex.PW-1/M-1
and Ex. PW-1/N, were prepared by the Engineer at site on
the basis of the daily expenses, the detail of which is also
annexed. It is correct that Ex.PW-1/M-1, and Ex. PW-1/N-1,
does not bear the signature of the person who prepared the
documents. It is incorrect that the plaintiff company was
supposed to supply two tanks of one KL each but the company
itself supplied one tank of two KL. Self stated that these tanks
were supplied after the consent of the defendant society. It is
incorrect that in the month of July 2015, the entire Civil Work
on the site was already ready but due to the repeated changes
in the layout plan the the work was delayed by the plaintiff Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 company. Self stated that the layout were changed on the
 request of the defendant society. The advance payment was
 part of the agreement so the demands were raised. It is correct
 that on 04.07.2016, there were only four employees on the site.
 It is incorrect that I directed the above said four employees to
 leave the site. Self stated that they were directed by the
 defendant society to leave the site. It is incorrect that due to
 the delay in the Project on the part of the plaintiff company,
 the defendant society has to suffer huge losses. It is incorrect
 that Shri Senthil Kumar was working with the company
 throughout and he resumed the work on the site after July 2016
 on the direction of the defendant society. I do not know that
 Shri Senthil Kumar left the work in between thereafter. Self
 stated that he had resigned from our company in July 2016. I
 do not know that the defendant society had raised the loan
 from the Bank. It is incorrect that due to delay in the project
 on our part, the defendant society had to pay interest. I am not
 aware that the sanctions from the electricity and water
 authority were already cleared by July, 2016. It is incorrect
 that the plaintiff company has filed the present suit without any
 basis and just to harass the defendants society. It is incorrect
 that due to the loss suffered by the defendant society the
 plaintiff company is liable to Pay an amount of
 Rs.3,30,79,953/- to the defendant society. It is incorrect that I
 am deposing false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

09th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2019 09.08.2024
 Present: Shri Sumeet Raj Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Neel Kamal Sharma, Advocate for the
 defendant. Statement of Shri Venkatachalapathy as PW-1.
 Let the remaining PWs in the list of witness be summoned
 for the next date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th August, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 4 of 2021 12.08.2024
 Present: Shri Hamender Singh
 Chandel, Advocate for the plaintiff. None for defendant No.1. Defendant No.2 already ex-parte. The witnesses of the plaintiff are required to be
 produce on self responsibility today, however, learned
 counsel for the plaintiff seeks time for producing the
 plaintiff witnesses. Allowed. Let the plaintiff's witnesses be
 produced on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) on self responsibility. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 76 of 2015 13.08.2024
 Present: Shri Dinesh Thakur, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Abhimanyu Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri
 T.S. Chauhan, Advocate, for defendants No.
 1 and 2. None for defendant No.3. As per the office report, an application under Order VII Rule 11 CPC for rejection of the plaint has been
 filed by defendants No. 1 and 2 and the same was listed
 before the Hon'ble Court on 12.08.2024. Vide order dated
 12.08.2024, the Hon'ble Court has granted three weeks time
 to file the reply in the said application. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 three witnesses are present today on self responsibility. Since the application for rejection of the plaint
 is still pending adjudication, therefore, it would be in the
 interest of justice that first the outcome of the adjudication
 of the said application be awaited. Accordingly, the witnesses present today are
 discharged. Let the said application be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court in compliance to the order dated 12.08.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 767 of 2020 3 13.08.2024 Present:- 14.08.2024 Present:- For which an amount of Rs. 42,542/- was sanctioned for his
 treatment. The reimbursement bills of the officer are used to
 be sent to the Treasury after the passing of the bills and
 thereafter send it to the Accountant General Punjab. As per
 telephonic inquiry after three years the Accountant General
 Punjab weed out the medical bills sent to them, therefore, no
 bills remain with the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate, with Shri Pranjal Munjal,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th August, 2024 Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 Shri Tarunjeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate,
 for the applicant. Without Oath
 20.08.2024
 I close the evidence on behalf of the applicant
since the list of witnesses have been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Arb. Case No. 40 of 2009 20.08.2024 Present:- 21.08.2024 Present:- 22.08.2024 Present:- company and Shri Vijay Bhandhari (Objected to by Plaintiff
on the ground of beyond pleadings and contrary to Ex. PW-
8/A). Shri Vijay Bhandhari was not agriculturist of the State of
Himachal Pradesh and he was required to obtain the
permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land
Reform Act. He did not come to me with the permission under
Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reform Act, during
my tenure as Director. Further execution of the agreement
regarding the purchase of land was to be executed after the
permission under Section 118 of the said Act by Shri Vijay
Bhandhari. He never approached me during my tenure as
Director for the execution of the agreement to sell. Ex. DW-
5/A bears my signature in red circle `A' as Director/ Chairman
of the company. Vide Ex. PW-5/A, three new Directors
namely Praveen Kumar, Navneet Garg and Virender Kumar
joined the company as Directors. The minutes regarding my Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 resignation and acceptance of the same were prepared copy of
which is Ex.PW-5/B. The said meeting was chaired by new
Director Shri Praveen Kumar. I identify his signature which is
in red circle `B' on Ex. PW-5/B. I conveyed to the new
management for the token money which the company has
received qua receipt Ex.PW-8/A, the reference to that effect is
made in Ex. DW-5/A and Ex. DW-5/B. Thereafter, the
company decided to return the token money of Rs.11,00,000/-
which is recorded in the minutes of the company, which is Ex.
DW-5/C. I identify signature of new Director Praveen Kumar,
which is in red circle `C'. The company send the said amount
to Shri Vijay Kumar Bhandhari through Demand Draft Mark
`X', vide letter 16.07.2009, Mark `Y'. I identify the signature
of Shri Praveen Kumar which is in red circle `X'. I was not
having any personal liability of any kind with respect to the
receipt of the token money. The company has been wrongly
sued through my name as I had already resigned from the
company before the filing of the said suit. xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Pranjal Munjal,
 Advocate for defendant No.1. The intimation regarding my resignation as
Director of the Company, was sent to the Registrar of
Companies. During my tenure as Director except Ex.PW-8/A,
no other document was executed pertaining to the purchase of
the said land. No other document has been executed with the
new Directors pertaining to said land. xxx xxx xxx Shri Ajay Kumar Sood, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Rohit, Advocate for the
 plaintiff. It is correct that the resignation from the
Directorship of the company is to be given in writing to the
Board of Directors. I have not retained the copy of the
resignation submitted by me to the company. The original
resignation is with the company. I have seen my resignation in
the Court file today which is annexed with Form-32, which is
Ex. DW-3/B. The total sale consideration of the said land was
Rs.2,80,00,000. I do not know that Vijay Bhandhari is also
having one another plant in the same vicinity. Shri Vijay
Bhandhari directly come to me for the purchase of the said
land. I do not know Shri Bharat Bhushan. The witnesses in
Ex.PW-8/A, were Shri Subhash Tomar and Shri Bharat
Bhushan. Shri Bharat Bhushan has not signed the said
document in my presence. I do not remember who has written
the document Ex.PW-8/A. I do not remember for what
amount I sold my share to the company to Shri Praveen Kumar
and other Directors. I do know whether I have sold my shares
to the Director Praveen Kumar or not. Self stated the same has
been mentioned in the Books of Accounts. I am income tax
payee. I have declared in the income tax return about the
amount of the sale of my share. I do not remember how many
share holder were in that company at the time of my
resignation. However, I and my brother Shri Madan Mohan
Singla were Directors of the said company. My brother might
have received the amount for the sale of his shares. I do not
know how much money he has received for the sale of his
shares. One take over agreement was executed dated
 04.06.2009 was executed between Vijay Singla and Praveen
Kumar, which is Ex. PX. I identify my signature in the said Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 document, which is in red circles `A'. I cannot identify other
signatures in Ex. PX. It is correct that in Ex. PX, the sale
consideration has been mentioned as Rs.9,40,000. Self stated
that I have sold my shares for an amount of Rs.9,40,000. No
sale deed was executed pertaining to the land in dispute. The
new Directors are also not agriculturist of the State of
Himachal Pradesh. I have not given any intimation to Shri
Vijay Bhandhari before or after resigning from the company.
Self stated that it is not my duty to inform him. I do not
remember whether any copy of the Ex. PW-8/A, was prepared.
However, I have informed the company at the time of my
resignation. The Draft Mark `X' was not prepared in my
presence. It is correct that there is no complete address of Shri
Vijay Bhandhari has been mentioned on Mark `Y'. As per my
information the Draft Mark `X' was not en-cashed and was
returned to the company. Form-32 was deposited by the
company. I do not know the date on which the said Form was
deposited by the company with ROC. I never entered into any
agreement with the V.R. Ferro Steels Company. I do not know
that the new Directors entered into an agreement to sale
regarding the suit property with V.R. Ferro for the sale
consideration of Rs.27,00,000. It is correct that earlier I use to
reside at Panchkulla. It is incorrect that my office was at Jagan
House Sector 28 Panchakula. I was residing at House No.8,
Sector 8, Panchkulla. I never made any offer to Shri Vijay
Bhandhari to take over the company in the manner it was given
to the new Directors. I only sold only my shares in the
company while resigning from the same. The owner of the
land in dispute is defendant No.1-company, managed by new Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 Directors. Self stated that the new Directors are the Directors
 as of date. I am not aware that as and when the shares of the
 company are sold the assets of the company are also
 transferred alongwith the shares. I was not remained behind
 the bars during my tenure as Director in the said company. I
 do not remember the exact period for which I remained behind
 the bars. I remained behind the bars for one year. It is
 incorrect to suggest that with a view to frustrate the agreement
 Ex. PW-8/A, I alongwith new Directors forged and fabricated
 false resignation letters and documents to cheat the plaintiffs. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 Shri Khem Raj, Advocate, for
 defendant No.2. Without Oath
 22.08.2024
 I close the evidence on behalf of defedndant No.2,
since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2009 22.08.2024 Present:- 23.08.2024 Present:- 24.08.2024
 I am an agriculturist by occupation. My land at
Village Mangu, Tehsil Arki, District Solan, which was
inherited by me from my father, was acquired by the
Government of Himachal Pradesh vide notification dated
05.03.2009 to that effect award was passed by the Land
Acquisition Collector -cum- SDO (Civil) Arki, Solan, H.P.,
which is Mark `A'. Vide the said award all the land owners,
whose land was acquired vide notification dated 05.03.2009
were jointly awarded Rs.50,42,08,486. Thereafter, I entered
into compromise with the M/s Ambuja Cement for whom the
Govt. of Himachal Pradesh acquired the land vide
Compromise Deed Ex. PW-1/A, my signature in the said
compromise is in red circles `A'. After entering into the
compromise with M/s Ambuja Cement, I received an amount
of Rs. 3,34,00,000/- through Cheque. In the year 2019, the
Bank Manager of HDFC Bank Kunihar introduced me with
defendant No.1. The defendant No.1, assured me that if I will
invest the money in his company he will give more return than
the interest of the Bank. On the assurance of defendant No.1, I
paid an amount of Rs.97,00,000/- (in total) to the defendants.
I deposited Rs. 47,00,000/- lacs in the account of defendant
No.1 and Rs.42,00,000/- lacs in the account of defendant No.2,
vide different transaction. I had also paid an amount of
Rs.8,00,000/- lacs in cash to defendant No.1. I have Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 transferred the above said amount in the account of the
 defendants from my Account in the PNB and HDFC Banks at
 Kuniuhar, District Solan. In order to ensure the return of my
 investment the defendant No.1 had issued me the cheques,
 which are Ex. PW-1/B to Ex. PW-1/H. I did not present
 these cheques in the Bank for encashment because the
 defendant No.1 had assured me that he will return the
 invested amount along with interest within a year. The
 defendants have returned only a sum of Rs.16,32,000/- to
 me till date and the last payment was made to me by the
 defendants on 14.01.2020. Thereafter, I tried to contact
 defendant No.1, but he did not answer my telephone calls
 due to which I had to sent a Legal Notices dated
 21.06.2022, Ex. PW-1/J and Ex. PW-1/J-1, to the
 defendants through my Advocate by registered posts and
 the registered letter receipt are Ex. PW-1/K and Ex. PW-
 1/L. The defendants did not reply to the Legal Notice and
 also did not return the money which I have paid in their
 Bank Accounts. Therefore, I filed the present Civil Suit
 through my Advocate on 12.01.2023 against the
 defendants for the retun of money alongwith interest. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 PW-2 Shri Krishan Prakash, Incharge Sub
 Divisional Kanungo, SDO (Civil), Arki,
 District Solan, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 24.08.2024
 I brought the original requisitioned record. The
 Award No. 1/2016, dated 15.09.2016, Mark `A' now Ex. PW-
 2/A, was passed by the Land Acquisition Collector-cum-SDO
 (Civil) Arki, District Solan. (Original seen and returned). R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 PW-3Shri Virender Kumar, Manager, Punjab
 National Bank, Kunihar, District Solan,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 24.08.2024
 I have brought the original requisitioned record.
 The statement of the Account of Shri Sant Ram is Ex.
 PW-3/A. The statement is computer generated document and
 is duly issued by Punjab National Bank, Kunihar, District
 Solan. As per Ex. PW-3/A, on 23.12.2019, an amount of
 Rs.20,00,000/- have been transferred in the Bank Account
 of Urban Himachal Investors. The certificate Ex. PW-
 3/B, under Bankers Books Evidence Act , has been issued
 by the Bank qua the authenticity of the accounts. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 PW-4 Shri Girish, Branch Manager, HDFC
 Bank, Kunihar, District Solan,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 24.08.2024
 I have brought the original requisitioned record.
 Shri Sant Ram is having Bank Account in our Bank. The
 statement of the Account of Shri Sant Ram is Ex. PW-4/A (13
 leaves). The statement is computer generated document and is
 duly issued by HDFC Bank, Kunihar, District Solan, H.P. As
 per the statement Ex. PW-4/A, on 04.09.2019 an amount
 of Rs.2,00,000/- and 5,00,000/-, on 18.09.2019, an
 amount of Rs. 10,00,000/-, on 21.09.2019, an amount of
 Rs.3,00,000/-, on 25.09.2019, an amount of Rs.2,00,000/-
 on 26.09.2019, an amount of Rs.15,00,000/- on
 02.12.2019, an amount of Rs.10,00,000/- had been paid in
 favour Shri Sarvjeet Singh. Further, on 03.10.2019, an
 amount of Rs.21,00,000/-, on 09.10.2019, an amount of
 Rs.1,00,000/- was transferred in favour of Urban Investors
 Private Limited. The certificate Ex. PW-4/B, under Bankers Books Evidence Act has also been issued by the
 Bank qua the authenticity of the statement of of accounts. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 Shri Vaibhav Tanwar, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Without Oath
 24.08.2024
 I close the evidence on behalf of plaintiff since the
 list of witness has been exhausted. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 9 of 2023 24.08.2024 Present:- Statement of plaintiff Shri Sant Ram and
 witnesses Shri Krishan Prakash and Shri Virender Kumar,
 and Shri Girish are recorded as PW-1 to PW-4, respectively- 6. Vide separate statement learned counsel for the plaintiff
 has closed the plaintiff evidence. Since the evidence is complete in the present
 Civil Suit, therefore, let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 24th August, 2024
 (Pritam) COPC Nos. 42 of 2023 24.08.2024 Present:- Perusal of the case file shows that neither of the
 parties have filed the list of witnesses for proving the issue
 framed by the Hon'ble Court. Learned counsel for the parties are submitting
 that the onus to prove the issue in hand is on other party. No
 witnesses have been produced by either of the parties today.
 However, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that
 execution of the sale deed is admitted by the respondents,
 therefore, the onus is upon the contemnor to disprove the
 contempt against them and there is specific direction to the
 contemnor for recording their evidence. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 24th August, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 478/ 479 of 2023 in RSA

 27.08.2024
 Present: Shri Kshitij, Advocate, vice Mr. Vinod Gupta,
 Advocate for the applicant-appellant. Shri Prashant Chauhan, Advocate for the
 respondent. Applicant Ms. Usha Devi is present. However,
 learned vice counsel for the applicant submits that she has
 not brought revenue record, which is required to be proved
 by her. Therefore, learned vice counsel for the applicant
 seeks adjournment for today. Learned counsel for the
 respondent has not opposed the request of the learned
 counsel for the applicant. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Let the applicant be produced on self responsibility
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th August, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 305 of 2021

 28.08.2024
 Present: None for the State. Shri Prashant Chauhan, Advocate for the
 respondent. Despite order of the Hon'ble Court for
 appearance of the respondent and his surety on
 28.08.2024, before the undersigned, the respondent
 along with surety are not present today due to which
 the bail bonds has not been furnished. Since the specific date has been given by
 the Hon'ble Court for their presence, the undersigned
 could not extend the time for furnishing the bail bonds
 as prayed for by the learned counsel for the
 respondent. Accordingly, the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

28th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 47 of 2014 28.08.2024
 Present: Shri Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the
 plaintiffs. Shri Ashok Tyagi, Advocate for defendant No.1. None for defendant No.2. As per the office report, the matter was listed for
 plaintiffs evidence who is required to be produced on
 self responsibility. However, learned counsel for the
 plaintiffs submits that due to ill health, the plaintiff
 No.1, could not come to the Court for adducing his
 evidence today. Learned counsel seeks adjournment, which
 is not opposed by the learned opposing counsel. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility on the next date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

28th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Counter Claim No. 35 of 2014 29.08.2024
 Present: Shri Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the the
 counter claimant-defendant. Non-counter claimantalready ex-parte. As per the office report, the defendant/ counter
 claimant was required to be produced for adducing his
 evidence. Learned counsel for the counter claimant
 submits that the defendants-Director Mr. Yogi Nagpal
 could not come to the Court for adducing his evidence
 due to fracture in his leg. Learned counsel seeks adjournment.
 Accordingly, the matter is adjourned. Let the Director
 Shri Yogi Nagpal be produced on self responsibility
 for adducing his evidence on the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th August, 2024
 (Pritam) RFA No. 110 of 2020 29.08.2024
 Present: Shri Mahesh Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant/respondent. The matter has been sent by the Learned
 Registrar General to the undersigned with the direction
 to do the needful and comply the order dated
 23.08.2024 passed by the Hon'ble Court. As per the office report, the applicant has filed
 Security Bond in the diary, however, it is required to
 be filed through Scrutiny Section. The perusal of the
 application alongwith the documents filed by the
 applicant shows that the security bond is not duly
 supported by an affidavit and the valuation report qua
 the said property has also not been annexed. Learned counsel submits that he will do
 the needful by tomorrow. Let the case be listed on
 30.08.2024, before the undersigned. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 136 of 2022 29.08.2024
 Present: Shri Karun Negi, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Sarthak Mehta, Advocate for defendants
 No. 1 and 3. Shri Pranay Pratap Singh, Advocate, for
 defendant No.2. Admission and denial of the document filed by
 the plaintiff has been done by the defendants. No
 document has been filed by the defendants. The admission and denial of the document is
 complete. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th August, 2024
 (Pritam) RFA No. 110 of 2020 30.08.2023
 Present: Shri Mahesh Sharma, Advocate, for the applicant. None for the respondent-State. In compliance to the order dated 29.08.2024, of the
 undersigned, learned counsel for the applicant has placed on
 record the affidavit as well as the valuation report duly issued
 by the Village Revenue Officer, Patwar Circle Junga, Tehsil
 Junga, which are taken on record. The perusal of Jamabandi annexed with the Security
 Bond shows that the land mentioned in the Security Bond is
 free from all encumbrances and as per the valuation report,
 the value of the said land is Rs.34,24,880/- I have gone through the order of the Hon'ble
 Court dated 23.08.2024 as well as the documents annexed
 with the application for acceptance of the security bond. Accordingly the Security Bond is accepted by
 me. All the papers be tagged with the case file. Let the
 matter be further processed in compliance to the order dated
 23.08.2024 of the Hon'ble Court. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th August, 2023
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 46 of 2022 30.08.2024
 Present: Shri Rahul Kumar, Advocate, vice Shri Anirudh
 Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Ms. Divya Rajta, Advocate vice Shri Ashok
 Tyagi, Advocate, for the defendant. Learned vice counsel for the defendant submits
 that they have filed an application under Order XIV
 Rule 5 CPC for framing of additional issues, which is
 still pending adjudication. Since the application is pending, therefore, it
 would be in the interest of justice that the application
 be decided at the first instance before leading the
 evindece by the parties. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriat orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

30th August, 2024
 (Pritam) Cr. MP(M) No. 2502 of 2023 02.09.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for the
 applicant. Ms. Kavita Kajal, Advocate vice Shri Athrav
 Sharma, Advocate, for the respondent. Let the steps be taken by the applicant within
 fifteen days, thereafter, the process be issued for the
 service of AWs, returnable for 23.12.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

2nd September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 PW-1 Statement of Shri Chuni Lal, Senior
 Assistant, Electricial Sub Division,
 Sanjauli, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. (The witness was deferred on 31.08.2023
 and His examination in Chief is
 resumed.)
 On Oath
 02.09.2024
 I have brought the original requisitioned record
today. As per our record, the electricity bill dated 10.02.2017,
of Smt. Vidya Devi Mark `X-9' is now Ex. PW-1/E-1. The
electricity bill dated 07.08.2006, of Shri Tarlok Chand Mark
`X-11', is now Ex. PW-1/E-2. The electricity bills dated
04.06.2008, 04.091.2007, 05.09.2007, 10.02.2009, 06.03.2007
and 17.07.2007, of Shri Rakesh Kumar, Mark `X-4', is now
Ex. PW-1/E-3, Mark `X-5' is now Ex. PW-1/E-4, Mark X`-
6', now is Ex. PW-1/E-5, Mark `X-8', now is Ex. PW-1/E-7,
Mark `X-3, is now Ex. PW-1/E-8. I have brought the record pertaining to the
installation of the electricity connection in the name of Dr.
Rakesh Kumar. The copy of the same is Ex. PW-1/F (colly.).
(Original seen and returned). xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Ajeet Pal Singh
 Jaswal, Advocate, for the defendant No.1. The Ledger pertaining to electricity connection and
consumption will remain in the custody of SDO electricity. It
is correct that I am working in the Electricity Sub Division
Sanjauli, since 2004. It is correct that I am presently dealing
with these Ledgers. The above said electricity bills pertains to Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 Kothi Vakil Khana, Shankli, Shimla-1. It is correct that
Ledger contains all the details of installation of all electricity
connections of a particular building and area. I cannot say
whether any electricity has been installed in that building in the
name of Shri Surender Mohan. Self stated that I have brought
the Ledger pertaining to which I have been asked for, unless
the particular of the specific persons are given by providing the
ID No. It is correct that from perusing the Ledger brought by
me today I cannot say whether any other electricity
connections have been installed in that building. Self stated
that it can be specified only after the ID numbers are given. As
per the record brought by me today out of the above said three
connection in the name of Shri Rakesh Kumar, Vidya Devi and
Tarlok Chand, only the electricity connection of Smt. Vidya
Devi has been dis-connected on 16.03.2018. The details of
which are 1111400347. I cannot say the reasons for the
disconnection. I cannot say whether any application for
restoration of the above said electricity connection or fresh
application for the installation of the electricity connection has
been received by the department or not. It is correct that all the above said electricity bills
pertaining to Shri Rakesh Kumar has been generated on the
basis of application Ex. PW-1/F (eight leaves). xxx xxx xxx Shri Vaihav Tanwar, Advocate, for
 defendant No.2. I adopt the cross examination conducted by
 defendant No.1. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Opprotunity given. Nil. PW-3 Statement of Shri Durgesh Kumar,
 Junior Engineer, O/o Architectural
 Planning Branch, Municipal
 Corporation, Shimla. (The witness was deferred on 31.08.2023
 and His examination in Chief is
 resumed.)
 On Oath
 02.09.2024
 I have brought the original requisitioned record
 today. As per our record, the copy of Tarlok Apartments,
 proposed Group Housing on Khasra No.335, are Ex. PW-3/A,
 Ex. PW-3/B and Ex. PW-3/C. The copy of the Tarlok
 Apartment proposed Housing Group on Khasra No. 325, are
 Ex. PW-3/D, Ex. PW-3/E and Ex. PW-3/F. However, in in
 maps Ex. PW-3/D to Ex. PW-3/F, Khasra No. 325 which
 might have been inadvertently mentioned. The above said
 maps have been sanctioned vide Sanction Letter Ex. PW-3/G,
 two leaves. (Original seen and returned). xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Ajeet Pal Singh
 Jaswal, Advocate, for the defendant No.1. Opportunity given. Ni. xxx xxx xxx Shri Vaihav Tanwar, Advocate, for
 defendant No.2. I adopt the cross examination conducted by
 defendant No.1. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 PW-4 Statement of Shri Dalip Narwal, Tax
 Inspector (North Ward), Tax
 Department Municipal Corporation,
 Shimla-171001. (The witness was deferred on 31.08.2023
 and His examination in Chief is
 resumed.)
 On Oath
 02.09.2024
 I have brought the original requisitioned record .
As per my record, Notices dated 16.07.2015, 14.07.2015 and
21.10.2015, are Ex. PW-4/A, Ex. PW-4/B and Ex. PW-4/C,
under Section 124 of the H.P.M.C. Act., have been issued in
the name of Ms. Vidya Vati, respectively by the
Commissioner, M.C. Shimla. The property tax receipts are Ex.
PW-4/D-1, Ex. PW-4/D-2, Ex. PW-4/D-3, Ex. PW-4/D-4,
Ex. PW-4/D-5, and Ex. PW-4/D-6. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Ajeet Pal Singh
 Jaswal, Advocate, for the defendant No.1. It is correct that I have only brought loose
sheets of original notices from the file. The said notices are
placed in the concerned file. It is correct that I have not
brought the record pertaining to property tax receipts. The said
original record is with Cash Branch of the M.C. Shimla. I
have only brought the computer generated receipts today. I
cannot tell who is paying the property tax of the Bhawan No.
19/20, New Bhawan, Shankli Shimla as of date, however, the
tax is being paid. I cannot say who is paying the tax of the said Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 building after the year 2015. It is correct that a notice dated
 14.07.2015, vide No. MCS/Comm./Secy.Tax/15-683, was
 issued to S/Shri Joinger Mohan and Surender Mohan, under
 Section 124 of the HPMC Act. xxx xxx xxx Shri Vaihav Tanwar,
 Advocate, for respondent No.2. Opprotunity given. Nil. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

24rd August, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 24 of 2016 02.09.2024
 Present: Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Khem Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate, for defendant
 No.1. Shri Vaibhav Tanwar, Advocate, for defendant
 No.2. Statements of PW-1 (Chuni Lal) and PW-3
 (Durgesh Kumar), are resumed and completed.
 Statement of Dalip Narwal is recorded as PW-4. Let Pws at Sl. No. 5 and 6 in the list dated
 16.11.2019 be summoned for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)

2nd September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 139 of 2022 03.09.2024 Present:- 04.09.2024 Present:- 05.09.2024 Present:- Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 5th September, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 8 of 2018 Shri Dhananjay Sharma, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Without Oath
 05.09.2024
 I give Er. Rakesh Rehal, being repitative nature
 and also close the evidence on behalf of plaintiff. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

5th September, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 8 of 2018 05.09.2024 Present:- 06.09.2024 Present:- Complaint was also lodged in this regard, regarding dis-
obedience to the local Police, even then the respondents
continued with the construction work. The respondents carried
out construction work in defiance of the orders of the Hon'ble
Court on 23.04.2019 and they continued this construction work
till about 10th May, 2019. I also clicked the photographs Ex.
AW-8/A-1 to Ex. AW-8/A-15, Mark `X', now Ex. AW-8/A-
16, Ex. AW-8/A-17 to Ex. AW-8/A-26, clickerd on different
dates as shown in the photographs, of the site where the
construction was carried out by the respondents with my
mobile phone and camera. I also get the same developed from
my computer in my office. I have not tempered with the
photographs in any manner and the same are correct which are
clicked by me. To that effect I also place on record the
certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act., qua
the correctness and authenticity of these photographs. The
certificate is Ex. AW-8/B, which is duly signed by me. CMP (M) No. 690 of 2024 in RSA

 xxx xxx xxx Shri Mukul Sood Advocate
 for the respondents. I am fully conversent with the entire case. I
do not know when the summons sent by the High Court, has
been received by the respondents. Voluntreed that we have
shown the copy of the stay order to the respondents which was
received by us through Whatsapp through our Advocate but
they refused to abide by the orders of the Hon'ble Court. It is
incorrect that the respondents were unaware about the stay
order passed by the High Court when they doing the
construction on the site. Our Advocate had sent the copy of
the stay order on 24/25.04.2019, which was shown to the
respondents on the same day. I clicked the photograpohs from
my MI Mobile phone and personal camera (cannon). I have
not brought the devices today in the Court. I cannot
differentiate the photographs which were clicked by me from
my mobile and from my camera. I do not remember the exact
of clicking of these photographs. The dates apparent on the
photographs is due to the memory card in my devices. It is
correct that I have edited the date at my own after seeing the
date of clicking of the photographs from my device. It is
correct that the dates are not apparent automatically in the
photographs while clicking the photographs. I am running a
tour and travell agency and my office is at Sundernagar. My
printer is of cannon make, ink based coloured printer. I
generally use Executive Bond and A-4 size papers in my
office. I have sepcially purchased the other papers for printing
the photographs, which is used for printing the photographs. It
 CMP (M) No. 690 of 2024 in RSA

 is incorrect that an ordinary person cannot take the printouts on
 glossy from a normal printer. It is incorrect that the printouts
 of the photographs have been taken from the professional
 photographer. I have not brought any meta data pertaining to
 these photographs today. Self stated that these pohotographs
 are available as of today in my computer. I do not know the
 technical specification of the computer, however I have clicked
 the above said photographs and the printout of the same have
 been taken from the computer. I do not know whether the
 clicked photographs can be editted as I am not a technical
 expert. The clicked photographs are still in my mobile and
 camera and I have not transferred the same to any other device.
 I personally use my devices and no body from the family uses
 my devices. It is incorrect that the photographs are neither of
 the spot nor of the dates mentioned in the photographs. There
 is no studio of professional photographer in my village. It is
 incorrect that I am deposing false today just to harrass the
 applicant. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th September, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 690 of 2024 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Sumit Sharma,
 Advocate, for applicants. Without Oath
 09.09.2024
 I close the evidence on behalf of the applicants,
 since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th September, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP (M) No. 690 of 2024 in RSA

09.09.2024 Present:- 10.09.2024 Present:- 11.09.2024 Present:- 12.09.2024
 I am a business by occupation. I know all the
defendants since 2018 including Late Manoj Kumar Sood. On
31.03.2018, defendant No.3 invited me to come to Shimla. In
the month of April 2018, I visited Shimla and I met defendant
No.3, who also introduced me to her father (Manoj Kumar
Sood) and brother (Aniket Sood). Thereafter, I went back to
my native place, however we remained in contact with each
other. Defendant No.3 and her father, telephonically and
through messages informed me about their financial problems.
They again called me to Shimla and showed me the about the
loans of the Banks. They sought financial help from me so
that they can pay the loans of the Banks as well as the market.
I made payments to defendant No.3, through cash and Bank
transaction amounting to Rs.51,45,000/- approximately till
03.10.2019. To that effect one affidavit was executed by
defendant No.3, which is Ex. PW-1/A (objected to).
Thereafter, from the money paid by me they discharged the
loan raised on the shops and obtained the No Objection
Certificate (NOC) from UCO Bank. In September 2018,
defendant No.3, visited Jharkhand. Thereafter, the defendants
use to take money from me in cash and Banks during different
intervals. I have paid an hefty amount for more than Rs.1.00 Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 crore to the defendants before the execution of the affidavit
Ex. PW-1/B (objected to) by defendant No.4. Thereafter, the
defendants again asked money from me but I refused to pay
more money, however, I asked them to return the amount
already paid by me. Thereafter, the defendants made a
proposal to me to purchase their property in lieu of the amount
already paid by me to them. I visited frequently Shimla in
between this period i.e. 2018-2019. I asked them about the
amount of the property which the defendants want to sell to
me. The defendants told me that the value of the entire
property which they want to sell will be about Rs. Three crore
fifty lacs. The defendants executed two agreements to sell Ex.
PW-1/C and Ex. PW-1/D, (objected to) for the selling of their
property in lieu of the agreement to sell, I paid the entire sale
consideration to the defendants by way of cash as well as in
their Banks Accounts. I paid the cash amount over and above
mentioned in the sale agreements to the defendants. The
defendants showed the true value of the suit property i.e. Rs.
1,43,60,000/-, in the agreement to sell, however, they have
accepted the total amount of Rs.3,50,00,000/- from me for the
sale of the properties. I have also paid an amount of
Rs.2,00,000/- approximately to the defendants towards the
revenue charges/Stamp Duty. The defendants remained in my
contact uptill November, 2019, thereafter, they started to
become unreachable to me and no conversation took place.
However, I came to know that the defendants have gone to
Gurgaon, Haryana, for the treatment of Shri Manoj Sood,
therefore, I went to Gurgaon on 2nd and 3rd December, 2019 to
meet them, but the defendants threatened me that they will Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 falsely implicate me in Criminal Case. The defendants have to
execute the sale deed in the month of December, 2019 as per
agreements to sell. For the purchase of the property of the
defendants my partner Shri Arvind Kumar, (Plaintiff No.2) had
also contributed the amount. When ever I use to visit Shimla,
the defendants use to demand money from me for their
personal work and for the medical treatment of defendant No.1
(since deceased). When the defendants did not respond to my
call and did not meet me, I was constrained to file the present
Civil Suit. I also filed an FIR No. 206 of 2019 at Police
Station Balidih, Bokaro, Jharkhand against the defendants for
cheating for which they remained behind the bar for more than
one year. After the filing of my present civil suit the
defendants have filed a complaiant/ FIR at Shimla against me
for the forgery of the documents i.e. Ex.PW-1/A to Ex. PW-
1/D, in which cancellation report has been filed by the police
and the matter is pending adjudication in the Court. The
defendants had also filed petition for quashing of the FIR,
lodged by me, before the Jharkhand High Court. Their
petition was dismissed by the Jharkhand High Court. The
defendants also went to Supreme Court but the case was
transferred to Chandigarh District Court, which is still pending
adjudication. The defendant No.3, had filed one FIR against
me in Delhi also. The police had filed cancellation report in
that case and the matter is subjudice in the Court at Delhi. The
Jamanadis qua the suit property are Mark P-1 (two leaves)
and Mark P-2, Since the defendants have not executed the sale
deed even after taking the entire sale consideration I was
constrained to file the present Civil Suit. Self stated that I can Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 produce all the documents for proving the monetary
transaction. xxx xxx xxx Sumit Sood, Advocate
 for the defendants. It is correct that I am not Himachali
Agriculturist. I have not placed on record any partnership
deed with Shri Arvind Kumar (Plaintiff No.2) at the time of
filing of the present suit. Self stated that I can produce the
same. I have not got the valuation of the suit property before
the execution of alleged agreements and affidavits. Self stated
that I relied upon the value which was quoted by the
defendants for the sale of their properties. I have not placed on
record the Bank transaction through which I have paid the
amount to the defendants. Self stated that I can produce the
same, however, the monitory transaction has been specified in
Ex. PW-1/A to Ex. PW-1/D. I use to file income tax return. I
have not annexed any ITRs in the present suit from which it
could be inferred that any amount has been paid to the
defendants during that financial year. Self stated that I can
also produce the same. I have not brought the same today. I
am the sole proprietor of M/s Project Equipments and
Construction Company. I have engaged five Chartered
Accounts/ Accounts to look after my accounts. I had
employed two permanent accounts at that relevant time. As of
date there is no permanent account with me. I have not placed
on record any Account Books along with the present Civil
Suit, in which the entries regarding to the defendants have
been made. I have signed the plaint after going through the Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 same. I do not remember whether I have showed my ITR
return, Books of Account and Statement of the Bank
transactions to my Advocate before filing of the present Suit.
It is correct that there is no specific reference about the cash
payments/ Bank transactions in the pleadings of the suit. It is
correct that I came into contact with defendant No.3, through
social media site through Bigo Live. Self stated that one frient
of defendant No.3, namely, Abhinav (Abhi) introduced me to
defendant No.3. It is incorrect that I have not annexed the
documents pertaining to the payments intentionally because no
such payments had been made to the defendants. I came to
Shimla for the first time in the month of April, 2018. I do not
remember that whether Shri Vikas Taneja accompanied me to
Shimla in April, 2018. The name of wife of Shri Vikas Taneja
Smt. Neha Taneja. She is my sister. Shri Arvind Kumar
(plaintiff No.2) is resident of district Kangra, Himachal
Pradesh. I do not remember his exact address, however, I have
visited house several time. I do not know the PAN number of
Shri Arvind Kumar. I am not aware whether Shri Arvind
Kumar use to file tax return. It is incorrect that when I visited
Shimla for the first time Shri Manoj Kumar Sood was not in
good health. Self stated that I met him in his shop when he
was hail and healthy. It is correct that defendants No.1 and 2
is having one Hotel at Chakkar, Shimla in the name and style
M/s Shymala Regency. It is correct that for the construction of
the said Hotel the said defendants had taken the loan from
UCO Bank. I do not know when I met the defendants the said
Hotel was under the tenancy of Shri Digvijay. It is correct
that the proceedings were going on in DEBT recovery Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 Tribunal, Chandigarh. Self stated that the defendants have told
me about that fact in the year 2019. I do not remember for
how many times I visited Shimla in the year 2018. It is correct
that before 2018 I was not having any business at Shimla. I do
not have any family friends in Shimla before 2018. It is
correct that in the photograph Ex. D-1, dated 13.05.2019,
(objected to) my image is visible in the photograph. It is
correct that the photographs Ex. D-1, pertains to the time,
when I accompanied the defendants for taking the possession
of the Hotel in DRAT proceedings by the Bank. It is correct
that I have entered into agreement regarding the purchase of
the property throughout India. I do not know the number of
the agreements which have executed by me till date. I do not
know in Jharkhand what is the Stamp Duty levied upon the
agreement to sell in Jharkhand. It is correct that on the first
pages of Ex. PW-1/C and Ex. PW-1/D, there is no signature
of defendants No. 1 and 2. I do not remember the exact time
of the execution of the agreements to sell. Self stated that the
same was executed on 04.10.2019. I do not remember
whether the above said agreements were entered by the Notary
in his Register. I have not annexed the abstract of the Notary
Registry with my suit. It is incorrect that I use to lookafter the
proceedings of DRAT on behalf of defendants. Self stated that
whenever I use to visit Chandigarh and there is date during that
time in the DRAT then I accompany the defendants. I do not
remember from where the papers were purchased on which the
Ex. PW-1/A to Ex. PW-1/D, were scribed. Ex. PW-1/A to
Ex. PW-1/D, were prepared by the Advocate, who put his
signature for identifying the parties to the agreements and Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 affidavits. I do not remember the name of the Advocate. It is
correct that there is no Aadhar Card, Pan Card annexed with
the affidavits and agreements of the defendants. It is correct
that Mobile Nos. 9864302500, 9931127084 and 7004500182
belongs to me. All the cash transaction are entered in the
Ledger/ Books of Accounts of my Firm. It is correct that on
Bigo Live social site my ID was in the name of Rahul. Self
stated that my nick name is Rahul. It is incorrect that chats
Mark A-1, to Mark A-3, pertains to Bigo Live social site. It
is incorrect that I have paid the amount to the defendants as a
help only for the medical treatment of Manoj Kumar Sood.
Self stated that for the first time I paid the amount for clearing
the Bank and Market loans of the defendants. It is correct that
I use to talk with all the defendants telephonically. It is
incorrect that I asked the defendants to send the signed blank
papers for filing the appeal in DRAT. It is incorrect that I
along with the witnesses and notary forged the blank signed
documents of the defendants due to which there is no
signatures on the first page of the agreements to sell. I am
graduate. Generally, I do not sign any document without
reading the same. It is correct that on Ex. PW-1/B, underneath
the signature the defendant has been written underneath that
Advocate has also been written. It is correct that in the
agreements to sell and affidavits no document supporting the
payments have been annexed. Self stated that the mentioning
of consideration amount has been mentioned in the Ex. PW-
1/A to Ex. PW-1/D, itself. The above said documents were
prepared at Dhanbad Court Campus. I am not aware office of
the Sub Registrar is also at Court Complex Dhanbad. Self Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 stated that in the Criminal Cases filed by me and by the
 defendants the police has placed on record the location of the
 defendants on 04.10.2019, whereby it was found that the
 defendants were at Dhanbad on that date. It is incorrect that
 Mark D-4 and Mark D-5, are blank signed documents which
 were sent by Arti Sood to me and prior to that she had send the
 photographs of the said documents. It is correct that in all the
 Exhibited document there is tick mark from the led pencil at
 the place where the signatures of defendants are appearing. It
 is incorrect that apart from Rs.51,70,000/-, no financial
 assistance has been given by me to the defendants. It is
 incorrect that agreements Ex. PW-1/C and Ex. PW-1/D, were
 not executed in the presence of the witnesses mentioned in the
 same. I have not annexed any documents showing the
 payment made by Shri Arvind Kumar to the defendants with
 the present suit. It is incorrect that Shri Arvind Kumar is
 known to the defendants. I do not remember that before filing
 the present suit I have disclosed to my Advocate the
 defendants have offered to sell their property for an amount of
 Rs. 3,50,00,000/-. It is incorrect that I have filed the suit with a
 view just to harass the defendants to purchase the suit property
 at meager price. The witnesses mentioned in the agreements
 to sell are known to me. It is incorrect that I am not entitled
 for the specific performance of the alleged agreements.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 12.09.2024 Present:- 13.09.2024 Present:- Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th September, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 11 of 2019 PW-3 Statement of Shri Surinder Singh, S/o
 Shri Dalip Singh aged about 68 years, R/o
 Hari Garden Colony Salli Road, Pathankot,
 District Pathankot, Punjab. On Oath
 19.09.2024
 I have filed the present suit on my behalf as well as
on behalf of the other plaintiff. The other plaintiffs have duly
authorized me through Special Power of Attorney Ex. PW-3/A
(Objected to) to do all the acts pertaining to the present suit.
Shri Ramesh Chand defendant No.1 is known to me. The firm
Shiv Shakti Stone Crusher was formed by Shri Ramesh Chand
alongwith other partner, namely Prakash Chand. When we
entered in the partnership with Shri Ramesh Chand in the
defendant No.2 firm at that time the firm was not operational
due to the paucity of the funds. When entered into the
partnership with Shri Ramesh Chand at that time Prakash
Chand was not partner to that firm. We entered into an
agreement with the defendant No.1 vide agreement dated
21.03.2015, Ex. PW-3/B (three leaves) (objected to), qua
laying the Stone Crusher. We also entered into partnership
agreement with defendant No.1, vide partnership deed Ex.
PW-1/A, dated 07.04.2015, which was registered in the office
of Sub-Registrar, Amb, Una. After the execution of the
aforesaid agreement as well partnership deed, we started the
construction/ civil work on the site. We have also deposited
the security of the electricity connection with the electricity
department vide receipt Ex. PW-3/C, (objected to). The
defendant No.1, has to complete the paper work and have to
apply for the loan from the Bank. But the defendant No.1 COMS No. 11 of 2019 never applied for the loan from the Bank. In pursuance of the
agreement Ex. PW-3/B, we paid an amount of Rs.75,00,000/-
lacs to defendant No.1. We paid an amount of Rs.40,00,000/-
lacs at the time of execution of the agreement and on
21.03.2015. Thereafter, an amount of Rs.10,00,000/- lacs was
paid to defendant No.1 on 28.03.2015 in cash. The defendant
No.1 executed the receipt qua the receipt of the an amount of
Rs.10,00,000/- lacs on the back side of the agreement itself,
which is Ex. PW-3/D. Thereafter, we again paid an amount of
Rs.20,00,000/- lacs to defendant No.1 in cash. On 06.05.2015,
we again paid an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- lacs to defendant
No.1, to that effect the receipt was executed and Ramesh
Chand including all the plaintiffs signed the said receipt which
is Ex. PW-3/E. Apart from the above said amount we paid in
total an amount of Rs.31,33,000/- to defendant No.1 during
different intervals. The break up of amount of Rs. 31,33,000/-,
we paid an amount of Rs.2,00,000/- lacs on 06.05.2015, on
12.05.2015, we paid Rs.5,00,000/ lacs, on 20.05.2015, we paid
Rs.2,00,000/- lacs, on 28.05.2015, we paid Rs.9,00,000/-lacs.
We also paid an amount of Rs. 3,33,000/- lacs as security to
the electiricity department and Rs. 10,00,000/- was deposited
in the account of defendant No.1. Thereafter, we receive a
notice Ex. PW-3/F, from defendant No.1. We replied to the
said legal notice through our Advocate and the copy of reply to
the legal notice is Ex. PW-3/G. The postal receipt is Ex. PW-
3/G-1. When conversation between the parties to the lis
stopped, then we applied for information under RTI, from the
office of Mining Officer, District Una, which were submitted
by defendant No.1 in various departments . The copy of the COMS No. 11 of 2019 RTI information received is Ex. PW-3/H( 189 leaves). After
receiving the documents under RTI we came to know after
receiving the amount from us the defendant No.1 has paid
some amount to Prakash Chand and for withdrawing his
partnership in the defendant No.2 firm. Thereafter, defendant
No.1 give the information to the concerned department that he
has become the sole proprietor of the firm. After execution of
the partnership deed with us on 07.04.2015, the defendant
No.1 entered into an agreement with the Mining Department
informing that he is the sole proprietor of the said firm.
Thereafter, we received a notice Ex. PW-3/J, dated
27.04.2016, from defendant No.1, qua cancellation of the
partnership deed. Along with the notice he also send the copy
of the desolution / cancellation of the partnership deed, which
is Ex. PW-3/K. Since the dispute has arisen between us,
therefore, we send a notice for appointment of the Arbitrator
to defendant No.1, which Ex. PW-3/L, but the defendant
No.1, did not reply to the same. We also made a complaint to
the police, which is Ex. PW-2/1. We also made a complaint
Ex. PW-3/M, dated 17.01.2017, 08.07.2018, Ex. PW-3/M-1,
to the State Geologist. We also made complaint Ex. PW-3/N,
to the Deputy Commissioner, Una. Thereafter, we were
constrained to file the present suit. xxx xxx xxx Shri G.D. Verma, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Sumit Sharma,
 Advocate for the for the defendants. After sending of the notice for the
appointment of the Arbitrator to defendant No.1, we applied COMS No. 11 of 2019 for the appointment Arbitrator in the Court. Again stated we
did not apply in the Court for the appointment of the
Arbitrator. It is correct that all the plaintiffs are non-himachali
and non-agriculturist of the State of Himachal Pradesh. It is
correct that before entering into the agreement Ex. PW-3/B,
and partnership deed Ex. PW-1/A, the plaintiffs did not apply
for the permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and
Land Reform Act. It is incorrect that the entire land which
was taken for the mining operations is agricultural land. The
land of the village Singha was taken for the mining operations
from the Pardhan of the village, namely Jassi. Self stated that
the other land was taken on lease from different persons by the
defendant No.1. I do not know the details of those persons.
We did not contacted the persons from whom the land was
taken for the installation of the stone crusher. It is correct that
we have not challenged the cancellation of the partnership
deed Ex. PW-3/K, before any court separately. Self stated
that we have filed the present suit. It is correct that we have
also not challenged separately the agreement between
defendant No.1 and the mining department. WE have
deposited an amount of Rs.10,00,000/- lacs in the Account of
defendant No.1 through our partner Raj Kumar. We have not
deposited any amount in the Account of defendant No.2/ firm,
after the execution of the agreement Ex. PW-3/B, as well as
execution of the partnership deed Ex. PW-1/A. There is no
separate agreement in between all the plaintiffs regarding
entering into an agreement with defendant No.1. All the
plaintiffs are income tax accesses. All the plaintiffs maintain
their business accounts of their businesses as well as their other COMS No. 11 of 2019 income separately. I cannot tell how much amount has been
contributed by each plaintiff after the execution of the
agreement with defendant No.1 today. Self stated that I can
bring the record pertaining to that later on. It is correct that we
have not annexed the details of the amount contributed by us
along with the present suit. It is incorrect that since no
payment has been made to defendant No.2, i.e. why no
supporting document has been annexed with the present suit.
It is correct that we have not annexed the income tax details of
each plaintiff from which it could be ascertained that any
amount has been paid to defendant No.1. I can produce my
accounts of business as well as income tax returns if the same
is directed to be produced by the Court. The other plaintiffs
will also produce their Accounts of Business and Income Tax
Returns, if so directed. The agreement Ex. PW-3/B, was
executed at Una in a Hotel opposite to the Tehsil Office. I do
not remember the name of the said Hotel. The agreement was
scribed by document writer which was known to defendant
No.1. The scribe was not known to me. It is incorrect that the
agreement Ex. PW-3/B, has not been executed at Una. The
witnesses in the said agreement ( Balbir Chand and Onkar
Chand) are not known to us. The said agreement was got
notarized by defendant No.1 in our presence. I do not know the
name of Notary Public. The agreement was not entered by the
Notary Public in his register in my presence. It is incorrect
that no payment of Rs.40,00,000/- lacs was paid to the
defendant No.1. WE have paid an amount of Rs.40,00,000/-
lacs which was available with all the plaintiffs. Today I can
not tell how much amount is contributed by each of the COMS No. 11 of 2019 plaintiff on that day for paying the said amount to defendant
No.1. I can also tell the amount contributed by me only after
verifying my accounts. The receipt Ex. PW-3/E, was got
typed by my partner (Raj Kumar). The said receipt was not
typed in my presence. Self stated that I signed the said receipt.
I do not remember the exact date of signing the receipt Ex.
PW-3/E, since the matter pertains to the year 2015. It is
correct that there is no date written in the receipt Ex. PW-3/E.
It is correct that the name of scribe has also not been
mentioned in Ex. PW-3/E. It is incorrect that Ex. PW-3/E, is
a forged document. For entering into the partnership business
with defendant No.1, we have authorized plaintiff No.1, Shri
Raj Kumar. After entering into the agreement Ex. PW-3/B,
and partnership deed Ex. PW-1/A, Raj Kumar started to work
in the business from that date. The plaintiffs have not opened
any office of the firm anywhere. Self stated that defendant
No.1, had to open the office at Crusher site. The office was
not opened after the execution of the agreement. The work of
the office was to done in a shed. Shri Raj Kumar worked with
defendant No.1, till the execution of civil work was going on
the site. I do not remember the exact date uptil when Shri Raj
Kumar worked with defendant No.1. After the execution of
the partnership deed business account were to be maintained
by defendant No.1. The defendant No.1 did not maintain any
account pertaining to the partnership firm. No Bank Account
in the name of partnership was opened in any Bank. The
defendant No.1 had to maintain the account pertaining to the
payments made in between the execution of the agreement and
execution of the partnership. We did not inquire whether the COMS No. 11 of 2019 any amount paid by the plaintiffs had gone into the Bank
Account of defendant No.2. The Bank Account was to be
opened in the name of defendant No.2, which was to be
opened by signing of all the partner of the firm. We did not
inquire from defendant No.1 about the opening of the Bank
Account in the name of the firm. Self stated that we have
asked defendant No.1 for doing the needful. I have also asked
Raj Kumar about the opening of the Bank Account in the name
of the Firm. Raj Kumar told defendant No.1 for opening the
Account and also told him that we will come for opening the
Account. It is incorrect that the Bank Account was to be
opened only by the signature of Raj Kumar and defendant
No.1. Self stated that as per the agreement the paper work was
to be done by both of them. I use to inquire from Raj Kumar
about the progress of the paper work. It is incorrect that no
civil work was executed on the site. It is correct that we have
not annexed any proof regarding the execution of the civil
work on the site with the present suit. It incorrect that we have
not paid Rs. 75,00,000/- lacs to defendant No.1. It is incorrect
that no investment has been made by the plaintiff regarding
establishment of the stone crusher. It is incorrect that the
agreement Ex. PW-3/B, was executed for the purpose of
seeking permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and
Land Reform Act by us. It is incorrect that the plaintiffs never
acted upon after the execution of the partnership deed. It is
incorrect that the entire amount on the stone crusher has been
invested by defendant No.1 along and there is no contribution
of the plaintiffs in the said project. It is incorrect that we have
intentionally not annexed the record regarding payments in the COMS No. 11 of 2019 present suit as no payment has made by us to defendant No.1.
 It is incorrect that I am deposing false. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General for defendant No.3. Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

19th September, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 11 of 2019 19.09.2024 Present:- 20.09.2024
 I have brought the entire requisitioned record of
Arb. Petition No. 13 of 2014, titled as Himurja and others vs.
Swastik Projects Private Ltd. The record of such petition also
contains the original record of Arbitration Proceedings in
which the sole Arbitrator was Hon'ble Mr. Justice Surinder
Sarup (J. Retd). As per the original record statement of the
said Arbitration proceedings titled as Swastik Projects Private
Ltd. Versus State of Himachal Pradesh and others statement of
was filed on 12.07.2008 and the certified copy is Ex. RW-1/A.
As per the record, the Arbitration Award was passed by the
sole arbitrator on 27.11.2013. The certified copy of the award
is Ex. RW-1/B. As per the record, RW-1/A and RW-1/B, are
true and correct copies (original seen and returned). (Exhibited
documents are objected to on the ground of relevance). As per
the record the objection under Section 34 have been preferred
before the High Court which was registered as Arb. Petition
No. 13 of 2014 against the aforesaid award. The certified copy
of the petition is Ex. RW-1/C, which true and correct copies
(Original seen and returned. (Objected to on the ground of
relevance). The Arbitration Petition No. 13 of 2014 is still
pending adjudication before the Hon'ble High Court. xxx xxx xxx Shri J.S. Bhogal, Senior
 Advocate with Shri T.S. Bhogal,
 Advocate, for the petitioner. Opportunity given-nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th September, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Arb. Case 40 of 2009

 RW-1 Statement of Shri Vedhant Ranta,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Without Oath
 20.09.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of the
 respondent, since the list of witness has been exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

20th September, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Arb. Case 40 of 2009

20.09.2024 Present:- As per office report, Pws, mentioned at
 Sl. No. 2 and 3, in the list of witnesses are duly
 served, however, no one is present. Learned vice counsel for the defendants
 submits that the original counsel for the defendants
 is contesting election of the H.P. High Court Bar
 Association, which is scheduled on 27.09.2024,
 therefore, he is busy in that affair. Learned vice counsel for the defendants
 seeks adjournment on his behalf for the above stated
 reasons. The request of the learned vice counsel for
 the defendants is not opposed by the learned counsel
 for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned.
 Let fresh summons be issued for the service of of
 the witnesses mentioned at Sl. No. 2 and 3, in the list
 of witnesses again on filing the fresh PF for
 07.03.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 24th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 48 of 2023 25.09.2024: Present: Shri Ajay Kumar Dhiman,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Madhurika Geeta Thakur,
 Advocate, vice Ms. Madhurika
 Sekhon, Advocate, for the
 defendant. State of plaintiff Shri Hari Ram is record
 as PW-1. Let the other witnesses mentioned in the list
 of witnesses be produced on self responsibility on the
 date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 48 of 2023 PW-1 Statement of Shri Hari Ram S/O Shri
 Surat Ram, aged 70 years, R/o Koon-
 Mankala, P.O. Shambhuwala, Tehsil Nahan,
 District Sirmour, H.P.

 On Oath
 25.09.2024
 The defendant is resident of my village. I have
retired as Mason from Municipal Corporation, Nahan, District
Sirmour on 31.10.2011. I and my family have good reputation
in my area. The defendant had filed various false complaints
against me before the various authorities. The defendant had
also filed a criminal case against me in the Court of Judicial
Magistrate Nahan, the copy of the order dated 07.02.2019, in
the said complaint is Ex. PW-1/A. The copy of the said
complaint is Mark-A. The defendant had also filed an appeal
against the impugned order dated 07.02.2019. Thereafter, the
defendant filed Cr. MMO No. 822 of 2022 in the High Court
which was later on withdrawn by the defendant. The copy of
the order of the Hon'ble High Court is Ex. PW-1/B. I have
also sent legal notice to the defendant through my Advocate
for damages on account of tarnishing my and my family
reputation. The copy of the Legal Notice is Ex. PW-1/C. The
defendant did not bother to reply the Legal Notice. Thereafter,
I filed the present Civil Suit for damages for an amount of Rs.
1,05,00,000/- (Rs. One crorer five lacs).t For maligning my
and my family reputation in the society. All the complaints
and court cases filed by the defendants were goes against him
since they were without any basis. My suit may be decreed for
an amount of Rs.1,05,00,000/- along with interest. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Madhurika Sekhon,
 Advocate, for the defendant. Before joining the Municipal Corporation Nahan, I
was in Indian Army. I do not know my date of birth and I
asked the Secretary Gram Panchayat to provide me the
certificate age certificate as I had received an order qua
regularization of my service. My birth year is 1952. It is
correct that I have land dispute with the defendant. I do not
know the date of my younger brother. It is correct that my
elder daughter in law had filed a complaint beforfe the police
against the defendant. Self stated that the matter was
compromised in the police station itself. It is incorrect that
case went to the Court. My elder son use to reside separate
from me. I am not aware what allegation were made by my
daughter in law against the defendant. It is incorrect that my
year of birth is 1948. It is correct that in the Pariwar Register
my age has been mention as 16.10.1953. The date of birther
of my younger brother is mentioned in the pariwar register is
1943. It is incorrect that I have levelled false allegation against
the defendant and thereby damaged his reputation. It is
incorrect that since I have land dispute with the defendant,
therefore, I have levelled false allegation against him. It is
incorrect that due to the said land dispute, I have filed the
present suit against the defendant jutst to harass him. It is
incorrect that I have tempered with the record qua my age for
getting the employment. Self stated that since the exact date of
 birth was not mentioned in any record, therefore, after due
 process before the Sub Divisional Magistrate, my age
 certificate has been issued. Shri Mohan Lal is my elder brother
 and the name of my younger brother is Gian Chand. My
 younger brother had expired six years ago. I have two sisters
 and six brothers out of which one sister and three brothers have
 died. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. It is incorrect
 that the present suit is without any basis. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

25th September, 2024
 (Pritam)62. 26.09.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Dhananjay Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Defendants No. 2 and 3 already ex-parte.
 Suit against defendants No. 4 to 6 stand
 dismissed vide order dated 19.12.2003.
 Shri Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for defendant
 No.7. As per the office report, the road and diet
 money has not been deposited. Learned senior counsel
 for the plaintiff submits that they will do the needful
 within ten days. On depositing of diet money, the
 summons be issued for the service of PW-1,
 mentioned in the list of witnesses for the date to be
 fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 10 of 2024 27.09.2024
 Present: Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Kulwant Singh Gill, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 2 and 3. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that the witnesses are not present today and he will
 produce the witnesses on self responsibility on the next
 date of hearing. Learned counsel appearing defendants
 No. 2 and 3, submits that he will have to move an
 application for setting aside the ex-parte order dated
 05.07.2024. Learned counsel for defendants No. 2 and
 3, further submits that he will move the said
 application within two weeks. If the application is filed within the time
 prayed by learned counsel for defendants No. 2 and 3,
 the same be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders, failing which, the matter be listed
 before the Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the
 date for ex-parte evidence of the plaintiff. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 32 of 2016 30.09.2024
 Present: Shri Rajinder Kumar Sharma, learned vice
 counsel for the plaintiff. Shri Janesh Gupta, learned counsel for the
 defendant. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
 submits that no witness is present today, however, he
 will produce the plaintiff on the next date of hearing
 on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for plaintiff's
 evidence on which date the plaintiff be produced on
 self responsibility. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th September, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 86 of 2020 DW-1 Statement of Shri Ashok Kumar aged
 about 56 years, S/o Shri Chet Singh, R/o
 Village Ropa, Post Office Galma, Tehsil
 Balh, District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 01.10.2024
 I am 10th pass. I am shopkeeper by occupation.
Plaintiff Ram Lal is known to me. I along with my brothers
(defendant No. 2 and 3), entered into an agreement of sale with
the plaintiff. We have agreed to sell our three shops to the
plaintiff. The sale consideration of the shops was Rs. One
crore twenty lacs. At the time of execution of the agreement to
sell the plaintiff had paid an amount of Rs. 30,00,000/- as
earnest money and thereafter, as per the agreement to sell, the
plaintiff had to pay an amount of Rs. 30,00,000/- upto
20.11.2019. But the plaintiff only paid a sum of Rs.,
25,70,000/- instead of Rs. 30,00,000/- as per the agreement.
Thereafter, the plaintiff did not pay any amount. I have taken
house loan from Indian Overseas Bank Ner Chowk by
mortgaging the shop. The Bank issued no objection certificate
Mark-D-2. The Canera Bank has also issued no objection
certificate Mark D-1, in favour of my brother Bharat Kumar
and Central Bank of India, has also issued the no objection
certificate Mark D-3, in favour of my brother Vinod Kumar.
The plaintiff without paying any amount was insisting to get
the sale deed executed and was asking that he will pay the
amount later on after the execution of the sale deed. The
plaintiff was not having sufficient funds to execute the sale
deed. On the first floor of the shops in dispute our father had
 constructed two room set also. We have also supplied the no
objection certificates issued by the Banks to the plaintiff. The
receipts Ex. PW-1/C-1 to Ex. PW-1/C-9, were never executed
in our presence. We have also replied to the legal notice
issued by the plaintiff to us. As of date the value of the
property in dispute is about 2.5 crorers. Since the defendant
has failed to pay the entire sale consideration despite repeated
requests and did take any steps for the execution of the sale
deed, therefore, as per the agreement the earnest money paid
by the plaintiff was forfeited. xxx xxx xxx Shri George, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. It is correct that we have good relations with the
plaintiff as the plaintiff is also running business at Ner Chowk.
The agreement to sell was executed prior to the execution of
the sale deed as the plaintiff was not having entire sale
consideration available with him at that relevant time. It has
not been written in the agreement that since the plaintiff was
not having entire sale consideration available with him at that
time, therefore, agreement to sale was prepared. The copy of
the jamabandi was attached with the agreement to sell. It is
incorrect that the document writer prepared the agreement to
sell on the basis of the jamabandis produced to him by us. It is
correct that on the date of the agreement to sell the share of all
the defendant was mortgaged with the different Banks. It is
incorrect that the plaintiff was having the entire sale
consideration for paying the same to the defendants but since
the property was mortgaged with the different Banks due to
which the sale deed was not executed directly. It is incorrect
 that I am deposing false the plaintiff was not readly available
with the entire sale consideration. It is correct that after going
through the agreement to sell I appended my signature on it. It
is correct that I also identifies the signatures of my brothers on
the agreement to sell. It is correct that the agreement to sell
was executed in the presence of the parties to the lis as well as
witnesses present there. It is incorrect that we have agreed to
sell the entire land, shops, amenities as well as rights
mentioned in the agreement to sell to the plaintiff. It is
incorrect that at the time of execution of agreement to sell no
construction was raised on the first floor of the shops in
dispute. I am not known to Hukam Chand Contractor. It is
incorrect that the plaintiff alongwith Hukam Chand Contractor
visited us and asked us to get the mortgage redeemed so that
the plaintiff could raise the constr4uction over the shops. It is
incorrect that we asked the plaintiff to raise the construction
over the said shops and we do not have any objection. It is
incorrect that thereafter, the plaintiff raised construction on the
first floor through Hukam Chand Contractor. It is incorrect
that only lentil has been led on the first floor and there is no
two room set on the said floor. I do not know that the plaintiff
was having his own shop at Ner Chowk. I do not know in
order to pay the sale consideration the plaintiff sold his own
shop by believing our words to pay the sale consideration. I do
not know that the plaintiff has to take the shop on rent for
which he is paying Rs.25,000/- per month. It is correct that
Ex. PW-1/C-2, bears my signature in red circle B. It is
incorrect that Ex. PW-1/C-1, bears my signature. It is incorrect
that vide Ex. PW-1/C-1, I received an amount of Rs.
14,80,000/- on 12.06.2020 in the presence of the witnesses
 mentioned in the said receipt. It is correct that vide Ex. PW-
1/C-2, I received an amount of Rs.12,70,000/- in the presence
of the witnesses mention in the receipt. I cannot identify the
signatures of my brother on the receipt Ex. PW-1/C-3 to Ex.
PW-1/C-9. It is correct that I redeemed my home loan amount
to Rs.10,00,000/- with the Bank on 28.08.2018. I never use to
do the construction work. It is correct that I have limit in the
Bank in the name of Ashoka Construction. It is incorrect that I
have deposed falsely that I have redeemed home loan
amounting to Rs.10,00,000/-. After redeeming my loan from
the Bank, I have deposited the no objection certificate to the
revenue officer. It is correct that as per the agreement the date
for the execution of sale deed was 30.05.2020. It is incorrect
that on 30.05.2020, plaintiff along with the two witnesses came
to us and ask for the execution of the sale deed. It is incorrect
that on that day we told the plaintiff that since the property in
dispute has not been redeemed, therefore, we asked some more
time. It is incorrect that during different intervals I and my
brother Bharat use to visit the plaintiff and receiving the
money by execution of the different receipts in the presence of
the witnesses. It is incorrect that even after the expiry of the
date of the execution of the sale deed, we use to receive the
money on the assurance that we will execute the sale deed after
redeeming the mortgaged property. I do not know on
03.02.2023, my home loan amounting to Rs.10,00,000/- was
entered to be redeemed in the revenue document. It is
incorrect that I and my brother Bharat received a total amount
of Rs.82,30,000/- on different dates on the assurance of
redeeming the mortgaged property and will execute the sale
deed. As of date I am not ready to execute the sale deed. It is
 incorrect that the defendants was never ready and willing to
 perform the agreement to sell and to execute the sale deed. It
 is incorrect that the defendants use to give false assurances by
 receiving the amount from the plaintiff on different dates. It is
 incorrect that from the very beginning the defendants was no
 intention to execute the sale deed. It is incorrect that I am
 deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

1st October, 2024
 (Pritam)62. 01.10.2024
 Present: Shri George, Advocate, learned counsel for the
 plaintiff. Shri T.S. Chauhan, learned counsel for the
 defendants. Statement of Shri Ashok Kumar is
 recorded as DW-1. Let DWs mentioned at Sl. No. 1 to
 3, in the list of witnesses be summoned for the date to
 be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). The diet money for summoning the DWs
 be deposited within fifteen days. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st October, 20224
 (Pritam) COMS No. 19 of 2019 PW-1 Statement of Ms. Vijay Verma, aged 72
 years W/o Shri Om Prakash Verma, House
 No. PP-172, Sector-108, Mohali, Punjab. On Oath
 03.10.2024
 I am house wife. From the year 1993 till 15 th
May, 2019, I use to run computer centre at Solan. My
computer center was situated Prakash Villa, Rajgarh road,
Solan, H.P. We have purchased the land, on which the
computer center was situated, in the year 1983. The copy of
Jamabandi of the said land is Ex. PW-1/A. We have
constructed three and half storeyed building on the said land,
which was constructed from the year 1987 to 1992, after taking
the due permission from the concerned department. I was
running my computer center in the ground floor of the said
building. The ground floor was consisted of three rooms and
one glazed varamda. My computer center was recognized with
Computer Society of India as well as Rajasthan University.
Copy of the registration certificate is Mark-A. My computer
center was also registered with Ministry of Micro Small and
Medium Enterprises, copy of the Udyog Aadhar Memorandum
is Mark-B. In the year 2019, about 125-130 students were
enrolled with my computer center. The course which were
being run in my computer center were BCA, MCA, Six
months and one year diploma. I use to earn net profit of about
Rs. Six lacs per annum from my computer center. The
photocopy of the attendants sheets of the students for the
month of December, 2018, is Mark-C (six leaves). My
 husband also use to run his business in the name and style of
Now Technology. The sole proprietary was also registered
with Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises. The
copy of the Udyog Aadhar Memorandum is Mark-D. My
husband also use to earn about Rs. Six lacs per annum from his
business. In the month of August 2018, we went to
Chandigarh for the eye operation of my husband. We
remained at Chandigarh up till 13.01.2019 and came back to
Solan on 14.01.2019. When we opened our house on
14.01.2019, then we notice that the walls of our house had
received the cracks on it. Besides to our house there is one
vacant plot of the defendants in which the defendants had
started the digging work with the JCB machines, due to which
our house received cracks on account of the vibration of the
JCB machines. Then brought it to the knowledge defendants
about the cracks in our house, but the defendants assured that
they will get the cracks repaired. Inspite of that the defendants
did not stop the digging work. They use to operate the JCB
machines in the early morning and late evening hours. They
do not use to operate the JCB machine during day hours. On
16.01.2019, when the defendants used the JCB machines, then
the stare case to our house suddenly collapsed and we along
with the students of the computer center were struck in the
house and the computer center. The students of the computer
center were rescued from the back side of the computer center
through the house of Superintendent of Police, Solan. We did
not lodge any complaint to the police as the defendants had
assured us that they will do the entire repair and get the things
right at the earliest. But the defendants neither repair the stare
cases nor the cracks developed in our house. Inspite of that
 the defendants did not stop their work on the spot. On
27.01.2019, me and my husband lodged a complaint at Police
Station Sadar Solan. Then the police called the defendants to
the police station and got the matter compromised between us
and the defendants. The hand written copy of the compromise
is Mark-E. I also appended my signature on the said
agreement which is in red circle Ex. PW-1/B. The defendants
have also appended their signature of the said compromise in
my presence. Our employee Ms. Kavita Chauhan also
appended her signature on the said agreement as witness.
Since on 27.01.2019, it was Sunday, therefore, on the next day
i.e. on 28.01.2019, the undertaking-cum-agreement was
executed between the parties to the lis, which is Ex. PW-1/C
(objected to on the mode of proof and admisibility). I have
appended my signature on the said agreement which is in red
circle `A'. The defendants as well as Ms. Kavita Chauhan,
also appended their signatures on Ex. PW-1/C. The
defendants were insisting to sell our building to them. The
defendants send this offer through Ms. Kavita to us also. The
defendants use to threatened in case we would not sell our
property to them then they will damage our entire property.
Inspite of the undertaking-cum-agreement, Ex. PW-1/C, the
defendants did not repair our house. On 01.02.2019, we again
lodged a complaint in the Police Station Solan, against the
defendants. On the basis of the complaint, the police made a
Kalandra, which is Mark-F. I and my husband also lodged
complaints before the Deputy Commissioner, which is Mark-
G. On 24.03.2019, defendant No.1 Nitin and his brother Vitin
came to our house and threatened us to sell the building to
them. They also misbehaved with me by pulling my hair. On
 the same day me and my husband went to the police station
again for lodging the FIR. The Police officials called the
defendants to the police station, where Nitin and Vitin gave a
written apology, the copy of the same is Mark-H. Nitin and
Vitin appended their signature on Mark-H. On 26.03.2019,
the defendants brought heavy drilling machine and started to
drill underneath to our house, due to which our building started
to tilt. Then we lodged an FIR at Police Station Solan. The
copy of the FIR is Mark-J. Inspite of the lodging of the FIR
the defendants did not stop the digging work on the site. The
police also did not stop them due to political pressure. A news
item was also published in the Amar Ujala Newspaper
regarding lodging of the case due to reckless digging. Copy of
the news item is Mark-K. On 08.04.2019, we again lodged a
complaint before the Superintendent of Police Solan, copy of
the complaint is Mark-L. We also filed an application in the
proceedings under Section 133 Cr. PC for the inspection and
urgent decision before Sub Divisional Magistrate, Solan. I and
my husband signed the said application. My signature in
Mark-M, is in red circle Ex. PW-1/D. Thereafter, Sub
Divisional Magistrate Solan forwarded a letter Mark-N, to
The Tehsildar Solan for doing the needful. Inspite of the order
of SDM Solan, no official came on the site for the spot
inspection, therefore, we again moved an application before
SDM Solan, in the proceedings under Section 133 Cr.PC. The
copy of the application is Mark-P, which was duly signed by
my husband and myself. My signature is in red circle Ex. PW-
1/E. We also lodged a complaint to the Directorate of Town
and Country Planning Shimla, the copy of the same is Mark-
Q. My signature in the said complaint is Ex. PW-1/F. Due to
 the reckless, digging and cutting by the defendants our
property has been damaged. On 14.05.2019, we again lodged
complaints to the authorities, the copy of the said complaints is
Ex. PW-1/G-1, and Ex. PW-1/G-2. I am conversant with the
signature of my husband, who had appended the signature on
Ex. PW-1/G-1 and Ex. PW-1/G-2. Despite the above said
complaints to the authorities, no body came to the site. I again
filed a written complaint on 15.05.2019, to the SHO Police
Station Solan as well as Deputy Commissioner and
Superintendent of Police Solan. The copy of the said
complaints are Ex. PW-1/H. When I came back to my house
at about 4.00 p.m., after giving the complaint on 15.05.2019,
the retaining wall as well part of the building collapsed. The
house hold articles also buried in the debris. Due to the
collapse of the building the road leading to Rajgarh also
blocked. Thereafter, all the authorities came to the spot and
the FIR No. 113 of 2019 was lodged by my husband. Copy of
the FIR is Mark-R. On the same day i.e. 15.05.2019, the Sub
Division Magistrate Solan has also decided the proceedings
under Section 133 Cr. PC. The certified copy of the order is
Ex. PW-J. The authorities declared our house as un-
inhabitable, unsafe and asked us to vacate the same
immediately. We could only take out the basic need item as
well as valuable items from out house. We could not take out
the computers/record from the computer center and other
house hold items from our house. We stayed for four-five days
in the house of our family friend. On 19.05.2019, me and my
husband also informed to the SHO Police Station Solan
regarding vacation of our house. The copy of the letter is
Mark-S. My signature in Mark-S, is in red circle `A'. me
 and my husband also made complaint to the different
authorities on 30.05.2019, the copies of the same are Ex. PW-
1/K-1 and Ex. PW-1/K-2 (objected to on the mode of proof
and admisibility). We also moved an application for
disobedience of the order under Section 133 Cr. PC, on
30.05.2019 before Sub Divisional Magistrate. The copy of the
same is Mark-T. WE again made another complaint to the
Deputy Commissioner, Solan on 31.05.2019. The copy of the
same is Ex. PW-1/L (objected to on the mode of proof and
admisibility). I identify my signature of my husband which is
in red circle `A'. I also made another complaint on
04.06.2019, which is Ex. PW-1/M (objected to on the mode
of proof and admisibility). After vacating our property, we
are residing in the rented accommodation taken from our
daughter. We are paying an amount of Rs.30,000/- per month
as rent. We also got evaluated the damages of our property
from the registered valuer, who assessed the damages to the
tune of Rs.65,17,000/-. Copy of the valuation report is Mark-
U. We also got clicked the photographs of our damaged
building which are Mark-V-1 to Mark-V-47. The Public
Works Department has also given the assessment of the
damages vide its report, which is Mark-W. Due to the
digging by the defendants, apart from our property the
government accommodation /house of Superintendent of
Police and House of Dr. Raina, was also damaged which were
also got vacated by the authorities. We also filed a Civil Writ
Petition No. 2057 of 2019, before the Hon'ble High Court,
which is still pending adjudication whereby the digging and
constructions activities by the defendants were stayed by the
Hon'ble High Court. The defendants are not owner of the plot
 adjacent to our property and they have forged the revenue
record qua their ownership as well as area. We have also
lodged an FIR to that effect which is Mark-X. One complaint
under Section 156 (3) Cr. PC has also been filed before the
Court by us against the defendants. The defendants have also
given wrong information qua their area while submitting for
the approval of the maps. To that effect we have also made
online complaint, which is Mark-X-2. We have also made
various complaints to the various authorities against the
defendants, which is Mark X-3, Mark X-4, Mark X-5, Mark
X-6, Mark X-7. My husband appended the signatures on the
said complaints and I identify the same. After taking the
possession of the adjacent plot by the defendants they got
demarcated the land in which we were also associated. All the
parties to the demarcation were satisfied with the demarcation,
which was being conducted in the year 2018. We had
constructed the building in our own area. After the vacation of
our property, defendants again got demarcated the land, in
which we were not associated. Due to the act and conduct of
the defendants we have suffered the damages to the tune of Rs.
one crore seventeen lacs, for which we are entitled from the
defendants. xxx xxx xxx Shri Navneet Kumar
 Bhalla, Advocate for the defendants. Our house was within Municipal Area. The maps
which were got approved for the construction of the building in
the years 1987 and 1992, I have not annexed with the present
suit. I do not know how much floor area and the number of the
stories were sanctioned in the year 1987 and 1992. Self stated
that in the year 1992, first flooor and attick was sanctioned. It
 is correct that in the year 1987 the map of basement and
ground floor was sanctioned. I do not know that map Mark
D-1 and sanctioned letter Mark D-2, pertains to our house.
We can produce the approved map which was sanctioned in
the year 1992 for first floor and attick. It is incorrect that no
map was sanctioned for our house in the year 1992. It is
incorrect that no map of first floor and attick was ever
sanctioned by the authorities. It is incorrect that the Muncipal
Corporation has demolished some part of our house on account
of the illegal constructions raised by us. Self stated that there
was some deviation which was being compounded on the
payment of Rs.200/-. I do not remember that thereafter we
applied for the sanction of the revised map. It is incorrect
that the revised map was sanctioned only for the basement and
first floor. I do not know that revised Mark-D-3, pertains to
my house. I cannot identify my signature on Mark-D-1 and
Mark D-3. It is incorrect that since no map has been
sanctioned qua first floor and attick due to which the same has
not been produced on record. I cannot produce the sanctioned
map for first floor and attick which was sanctioned in the year
1992 on the next date of hearing. I do not know the number
vide which the map for first floor and attick was sanctioned in
the year 1992. I have disclosed about the sanctioning of the
plan in the year 1992 to my counsel before drafting of the
plaint. I have not shown that map to my counsel at any point
of time. It is incorrect that our first floor and attick is illegal.
WE have purchased the said land from Shri Jia Lal after due
execution of the sale deed and the Tatima was also annexed
with the sale deed. I have not annexed the said Tatima with
the plaint. We have shown the said Tatima to our Advocate
 before filing the present suit. I do not know whether the said
 Tatima is not in my possession as of date. Our front towards
 Solan- Rajgarh road was 22 meters. I can produce the revenue
 document from which it can be shown that our front was 22
 meteres. I have neither brought any revenue document today
 nor any such document has been annexed with the case file. It
 is incorrect that our map has been sanctioned only on 16
 meters front. It is correct that after purchasing the land
 mutation was entered to that effect. It is incorrect that in that
 mutation our front was shown as 16 meters. I do not know that
 the mutation Mark-D-4 (three pages) and Tatima pertains to
 my property. It is correct that as per revenue record in
 between our plot and the plot of the defendants there is one
 path which leads to Dr. Raina House. Self stated that there is
 no constructed path on the spot. I do not know the width of the
 said path in revenue record is 2 meters. I do not know Dr.
 Raina and Pashupatinath and others have purchased the land
 from Shri Bhim Dutt. I do not know the khasra No. of the said
 path is 690/2. I do not know whether mutation No. 496 and
 Tatima appended in the mutation pertains to Pashupatinath and
 others Mark D-5 (two pages). It is incorrect that we have
 written wrong facts in our plaint that our plot and the plot of
 the defendants are adjoining each other. It is incorrect that we
 have encroached the above said path mentioned in the revenue
 record. The cross examination of the witness is deferred
 since the Court time is over. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 3rd October, 2024
 (Pritam)62. 03.10.2024
 Present: Shri Ravinder Singh Chandel, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff/non- counter claimant. Shri Navneet Kumar Bhalla, Advocagte for the
 defendants. Cross examination of Ms. Vijay Verma, is
 deferred since the Court time is over. Let this witness be produced on self
 responsibility for further cross examination for the
 date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd October, 20224
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 04.10.2024
 Present: Shri Parmod Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Jeevesh Sharma, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 1 to 4. None for defendants No. 5 and 6. As per the office report, summon as well
 as notice under Order XVI Rule 12 CPC , issued to
 PW-1, mentioned in the list of witnesses, is duly
 served. The perusal of the report on the summon as
 well as on the notice under Order XVI Rule 12, CPC shows that the same have been received by the witness
 himself. Despite due and effective service of
 summon as well as the notice under Order XVI Rule
 12 CPC , the witness did not come to adduce his
 evidence. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th October, 20224
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 in RSA

AW-1: Statement of Shri Jagat Ram, S/o Shri Ranjit Singh
aged about 56 years, presently working as Assistant Engineer,
Namhol Sub Division, HPPWD, Namhol, District Bilaspur,
Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 14.10.2024
 I am working as Assistant Engineer in Sub Division
 Namhol from 29.07.2021. I am conversant with the factual position
 of the present case. I have been duly summoned from the Court for
 adducing evidence and I have been duly authorized by the Executive
 Engineer, Bilaspur Division No.2, HPPWD, Bilaspur on behalf of
 the applicant. Engineer Shri Anil Kumar remained our
 Superintending Engineer (SE) during the year 2022. The present
 appeal has been filed under the signature of Shri Anil Kumar
 Sharma and thereafter, after removal of objection, fresh present
 application was filed under the signature of present Superintending
 Engineer, namely Shri Jeet Singh Thakur. I am conversant with the
 signature the then Superintending Engineer and the present
 Superintending Engineer. The present appeal along with application
 have been prepared, vetted and filed under my supervision. The
 present appeal could not be filed within the stipulated time. There is
 about nine months delay in filing the present appeal. The first
 appellate court passed the judgment on 29.11.2021. The department
 received the information regarding the decision of the first appellate
 Court on 16.12.2021 through the District Attorney Bilaspur.
 Thereafter, we sent the present case for the opinion of our
 department on 28.12.2021. After processing the case file the
 department send the case file to us on 01.04.2022 after getting the
 opinion for filing the present appeal. Thereafter, draft appeal was
 prepared under my supervision and the same was sent further
 processing to the higher authorities. On 03.12.2022, after vetting
 the appeal was received in our department, which was got signed by
 the Superintending Engineer on 13.12.2022 and finally on
 CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 in RSA

 07.01.2023, the appeal was filed in the Hon'ble High Court. The
 delay in filing the present appeal was neither intentional nor willful
 but due to aforementioned bonafide reasons. xxx xxx xxx Shri Manish Gupta,
 Advocate for the respondents. It is correct that no official conversation regarding
 processing the case file within the department has been placed on
 record with the application. Self stated that it is in our official
 record. It is incorrect that after receiving the judgment and decree
 of first appellate court from the office of District Attorney the case
 file could be sent to the legal department directly without sending it
 to the Superintending Engineer Office. It is incorrect that after
 receiving the judgment and decree from the District Attorney no
 effective steps were taken within time bound manner and due to the
 lapse on the part of the department the file was not sent within time
 for obtaining the legal opinion. It is correct that inspite of signing of
 the appeal on 13.12.2022 by the SE, the appeal could not be filed
 uptil 07.01.2023, Self stated that due to paucity of the staff as well
 as other codal formalities, the same could not be send till
 07.01.2023. It is incorrect that due to laxity on the part of the
 department the appeal could not be filed within time. It incorrect
 that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th October, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate
 General for the applicants. Without Oath
 14.10.2024
 Stated that I give up Shri Ramesh Kumar,
 Senior Assistant being repetitive in nature and also close
 the evidence on behalf of the applicant. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th October, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 Statement of Shri Manish Kumar Gupta, Advocate, for
 the respondents. Without Oath
 14.10.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
 in rebuttal. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

14th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 04.10.2024
 Present: Shri Parmod Thakur, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Jeevesh Sharma, Advocate, for defendants
 No. 1 to 4. None for defendants No. 5 and 6. As per the office report, summon as well
 as notice under Order XVI Rule 12 CPC , issued to
 PW-1, mentioned in the list of witnesses, is duly
 served. The perusal of the report on the summon as
 well as on the notice under Order XVI Rule 12, CPC shows that the same have been received by the witness
 himself. Despite due and effective service of
 summon as well as the notice under Order XVI Rule
 12 CPC , the witness did not come to adduce his
 evidence. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th October, 20224
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 1159 of 2023 in RSA
 14.10.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate
 General , for the applicants. Shri Manish Kumar Gupta, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Statement of Shri Jagat Ram is recorded as
 AW-1. Vide separate statement, leanred Additional
 Advocate General give up other witness Shri Ramesh
 Kumar and also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. Learned counsel for the respondents, vide
 his separate statement, also submits that he does not
 want to lead any evidence in rebuttal on behalf of the
 respondents. Accordingly, the evidence is complete.
 Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th October, 20224
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 43 of 2024 in RSA
 15.10.2024
 Present: Shri Hitesh Kumar, Advocate, vice Shri Dalip K.
 Sharma, Advocate for the applicants. None for respondents No. 1 to 11. Shri Mukul Sood and Shri Vivek Sharma
 Advocates, for respondent No.12. As per order dated 18.07.2024 of the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial), the applicants
 witnesses are required to be produced on self
 responsibility. However, learned vice counsel for the
 applicants submits that no witnesses are present today. The perusal of case file shows that even
 the list of witnesses have not been filed till date despite
 two opportunities given by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Learned vice counsel for the applicants
 submits that they will file the list of witnesses within
 two weeks. Let the applicants witnesses be produced
 on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th October, 20224
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 43 of 2024 in RSA
 15.10.2024
 Present: Shri Hitesh Kumar, Advocate, vice Shri Dalip K.
 Sharma, Advocate for the applicants. None for respondents No. 1 to 11. Shri Mukul Sood and Shri Vivek Sharma
 Advocates, for respondent No.12. As per order dated 18.07.2024 of the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial), the applicants
 witnesses are required to be produced on self
 responsibility. However, learned vice counsel for the
 applicants submits that no witnesses are present today. The perusal of case file shows that even
 the list of witnesses has not been filed till date despite
 two opportunities given by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Learned vice counsel for the applicants
 submits that he will file the list of witnesses within two
 weeks. Let the applicants witnesses be produced
 on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th October, 20224
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit No. 59 of 2021 a/w Counter Claim No. 37 of 2023

 15.10.2024
 Present: Shri Prashant Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff/non-counter claimant. Ms. Diksha Thakur, Advocate, vice Shri Atul
 Jhingan, Advocate, for the defendant/non-counter
 claimant. As per office report, steps for summoning
 the plaintiff's witnesses have not been taken. Leanred
 counsel for the plaintiff submits that he will take the
 steps within two weeks. Let the plaintiffs be produced at the first
 instance on self responsibility on 24.03.2025. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
15th October, 20224
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 12 of 2022 16.10.2024
 Present: Shri Servedaman Rathore, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri B.N. Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will produce the plaintiff on the next date of
 hearing on self responsibility. Learned counsel for the
 plaintiff seeks adjournment for today. Prayer allowed. Let the plaintiff be produced at the first
 instance on self responsibility for the date to be fixed
 by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th October, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

PW-23 Statement of Shri Prithvi Singh Chauhan,
 Co-operative Inspector, Block Chopal,
 District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 16.10.2024
 I have brought the original death and birth
 Register of Gram Panchayat Jhalta, Tehsil Jubbal, District
 Shimla. In the year 2006, I was posted as Secretary Gram
 Panchayat Jhalta, Chopal, District Shimla. I have seen Ex.
 PY today. The original entries in the birth and death
 Register pertaining Ex. PY, had been entered by me on
 the information given by the father, namely Shri Banarsi
 Dass of child `R'. I identified my signature on Ex. PY,
 which is Ex. PY-1. I have made the entries in the birth
 and death Register on 06.02.2006. However, as per the
 information the child `R' was born on 20.01.2006. After
 making the entries in the birth and death Register, the
 entries are made in the family Register. I have brought the
 original Pariwar Register also which started in the month
 of May, 1989, in which at page No. 104, at Sl. No. 18 the
 name of the elder daughter of Banarsi Dass was entered as
 Slity and was entered on 10.12.1998 and on the same page
 between Sl. Nos. 17 and 18 the name of second daughter
 of Banarsi Dass has been entered as `R' having date of
 birth 20.01.2006. I had also brought the Pariwar Register
 which was continued after 31.12.1990. On this Register,
 the family/Pariwar of Bansrsi Dass S/o Bishan Dass, has
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

been entered against House No. 327 BPL, at page No. 189. On the said page, Shri Banarsi Dass having wife
(Deepna Devi) having date of birth 01.07.1975, and
daughter `R' date of birth 10.12.1998, and youngest
daughter `N' date of birth 20.01.2006, are entered. When I
entered the family of Banarsi Dass in the Pariwar Register,
I inquired the family head Banarsi Dass regarding
correctness of his family members, whereby he had stated
that I had changed the name of my elder daughter from
Slity to 'R' and the name of youngest daughter has been
stated by him as `N' and I had entered accordingly. When
I entered the name first time on 06.02.2006, it may be by
mistake hearing that this Banarsi Dass would have spoken
`N' and I had heard `R' because the entries are made in
Gram Sabha and many of the people remains around us.
The name entry of dated 06.02.2006, Ex. PY and the entry
on Pariwar Register of Banarsi Dass Ex. PW-10/B,
showing `N' as daughter of Banarsi Dass are of the same
child. I had also brought the photocopy of old Pariwar
Register showing Page No. 104 and I can produce it in the
Court. The same is Mark `A'. The copy of the abstract
of the original entries at Page No. 104 in Pariwar Register
May, 1989, is Ex. PW-23/A. I have not made the entry at
Sl. No. 17 and 18 at page No. 104. Again stated that the
writing might be mine. (Original seen and returned). Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

 xxx xxx xxx Shri George, Advocate, for the
 appellant-accused. It is correct that I have made the entry in the
birth and death Register solely on the information given
by the father of the child. It is correct that as of date I am
not the custodian of the record brought by me today. I
have brought this record after taking the permission from
the Panchayat Secretary, Gram Panchayat Jhalta, Chopal,
District Shimla. Today I cannot produce any permission
given by the Secretary Gram Panchayat Jhalta. It is
correct that there is no certification regarding the period of
the family Register. It is correct that on Ex. PW-23/A, the
entries pertaining to Sl. Nos. 17 and 18 have not been
authonticated by any official or officer. It is correct that
the entry in the birth date of 20.01.2006 at Sl. No. 17 and
18, is incorporated in between the birth entries for the year
26.01.1997 and 10.12.1998. It is correct that as per Ex.
PW-23/A, 20.01.2006, is the date of birth of 'R'. It is
correct that in Ex. PW-23/A the name of child `N', has not
been mentioned anywhere. Self stated that the earlier
name of child `R' was Sality. It is correct that in the
second Pariwar Register also there is no certification of
the period it pertains to. Self stated that first page of this
Register half torned due to which the year could not
ascertained but it was started after 2006. It is correct that
there is a certification that it contains 200 page, however,
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

there are only 194 pages. Self stated that some of the
pages might have torn. It is correct that the entries in the
birth and death Register are statutory entries and it cannot
be changed at its own. It is incorrect that the entries in the
family Register has been manipulated by me. It is correct
that in the Pariwar Register Ex. PX, there are certain
cuttings. Self stated that the same has not been done by
me. I do not remember the specific date and time when the
entries made by me on the Register Ex. PX. I remained as
Secretary, Gram Panchayat Jhalta from the year 2005 to
2008 and the entries have been made by me in the Pariwar
Register during that period. These entries were made by
me in the Pariwar Register in the office. After the change
in the name of the child in family Register I did not made
any correction in the birth and death Register. It is correct
that whenever entries are to amended due to any reason
then there is a procedure the Registration of Birth and
Death Act. It is correct that the periodical statements are
to be sent to the Registrar Birth and Death. It is correct
that the amendments made in the Pariwar Register are to
be notified before the Registrar. It is correct that I have
not informed the amendment in the name of the child `R',
to the Registrar. I am aware about the Rule 15 of the
Registration of Birth and Death Act, which pertains to
correctness of the entries in the birth and death Register.
It is correct that I have not followed the procedure as
mentioned in Rule 15 of the said Act. Self stated that I do
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

 not remember whether I have followed the procedure at
 that relevant point of time. It is correct that in Ex. PY, I
 have not made any entry regarding the change of the name
 of child `R', in the margin of the said Register. It is
 incorrect that in Ex. PW23/A, at Sl. Nos. 17 and 18, I
 have intentionally inserted the entry 20.01.06. It is
 incorrect that the entry pertaining to 20.01.06 seems to be
 recently made. It is incorrect that all the entries made in
 the Pariwar Register are manipulated later on. It is
 incorrect that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

16th October, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022
 16.10.2024
 Present: Shri George, Advocate, for the appellant. Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Addl. Advocate General,
 Shri Raj Negi and Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General, for the respondents. Statement of Shri Prithvi Singh Chauhan,
 is recorded as PW-23. During the course of the
 examination in Chief, Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General started to misbehave with the
 undersigned and started to dictate his terms by stating
 that this is a criminal case and anything can be marked
 or exhibited at any stage during the examination. This
 is not for the first time, earlier also he has misbehaved
 with the undersigned. The Hon'ble Court is requested to take
 note of this fact at the time of taking up of the matter. Learned counsel for the appellant submits
 that the statement of PW-10, has been recorded in part
 by the Hon'ble Court vide order dated 22.07.2024, and
 his statement is required to be completed. Accordingly, the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
16th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 78 of 2016 17.10.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain,
 Advocates, for the plaintiff. Shri Vedhant Ranta, Advocate, vice Shri
 Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. Shri Pavel Garg (plaintiff), is present. Learned
 vice counsel for the defendant submits that the
 Senior Counsel Shri Bhupender Gupta, who has to
 cross examine this witness has gone for his medical
 checkup. Learned counsel seeks adjournment on
 that ground, which is not opposed by the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the plaintiff, who is present today
 is discharged. Let the case be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 plaintiff's evidence, who shall be produced on self
 responsibility on that day. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 77 of 2016 17.10.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain,
 Advocates, for the plaintiff. Shri Vedhant Ranta, Advocate, vice Shri
 Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. Shri Pavel Garg (plaintiff), is present. Learned
 vice counsel for the defendant submits that the
 Senior Counsel Shri Bhupender Gupta, who has to
 cross examine this witness has gone for his medical
 checkup. Learned counsel seeks adjournment on
 that ground, which is not opposed by the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the plaintiff, who is present today
 is discharged. Let the case be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 plaintiff's evidence, who shall be produced on self
 responsibility on that day. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 79 of 2016 17.10.2023
 Present: Mr. Vikas Deep and Ms. Nidhi Jain,
 Advocates, for the plaintiff. Shri Vedhant Ranta, Advocate, vice Shri
 Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for the defendant. Shri Pavel Garg (plaintiff), is present. Learned
 vice counsel for the defendant submits that the
 Senior Counsel Shri Bhupender Gupta, who has to
 cross examine this witness has gone for his medical
 checkup. Learned counsel seeks adjournment on
 that ground, which is not opposed by the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff. Accordingly, the plaintiff, who is present today
 is discharged. Let the case be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 plaintiff's evidence, who shall be produced on self
 responsibility on that day. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th October, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1127 of 2024 in Criminal Appeal

 18.10.2023
 Present: Ms. Sunaina & Ms. Santosh Dogra, Deputy
 Advocate General, for the applicant. Ms. Geeta, Advocate, vice Shri V.S. Rathore,
 Advocate, for the respondents. Learned Deputy Advocate General seeks time
 for taking steps for summoning the witnesses. Let steps be taken within fifteen days and
 thereafter process be issued for the service of AWs
 returnable for 21.04.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2014 21.10.2023
 Present: Shri Vinod Gupta, vice counsel for the
 Plaintiff. None for defendants No. 1 and 2. Shri Tarun Brakta, vice counsel for defendants
 No. 3 to 5. As per order dated 23.07.2024, of the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial), the plaintiff was
 required to be produced on self responsibility today
 for adducing his evidence. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
 submits that the plaintiff is ill due to which he could
 not come to the Court. However, no prescription
 slip or any medical treatment summary have been
 produced today. The Hon'ble Court vide order dated
 25.04.2024, has given the last opportunity to the
 plaintiff to examine their witnesses. Since the
 plaintiff has not come to the Court for adducing his
 evidence, therefore, the undersigned has no other
 option but to list the matter before the Hon'ble
 Court. Accordingly, the matter be listed before
 the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 71 of 2015 22.10.2023
 Present: Shri Dhananjay Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. None for the defendants. As per office report, PF and list of
 witnesses have been filed but the road and diet
 money has not been deposited by the plaintiff due to
 which the summons could not be issued to the
 witnesses. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will deposit the diet money within fifteen
 days. Let the needful be done within fifteen
 days, thereafter, the matter be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of
 plaintiff's evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2024 23.10.2024
 Present: Shri Ankit Chandel, Advocate vice Shri Anshul Attri,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. None for defendant No. 1. Ms. Shrutika Chauhan, Advocate, vice Shri Dheeraj
 Vashishth, Advocate, for defendants No. 2, 4 and 5.
 Ms. Bhavya Sharma, Advocate vice Shri Rupinder
 Singh Thakur, Advocate, for defendants No. 6 and 7. As per office report, process fee has not been
 filed for summoning the plaintiff's witnesses. However, list
 of witnesses and diet money have already been filed. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will file the process fee within fifteen days. Today the case is listed for plaintiff's
 evidence, who is required to be produced on self
 responsibility. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he could not come to the Court due to unavoidable
 reasons and seeks adjournment, which is not opposed by the
 learned vice counsel for the defendants. Let the PF be filed within fifteen days. Further,
 plaintiff be produced for adducing his evidence on self
 responsibility for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
23rd October, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 10 of 2018 24.10.2024
 Present: Ms. Narvada, Advocate, vice Shri Ajay
 Vaidya, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Harsh Vardhan, Advocate for the
 defendants. The plaintiff is required to be produced
 on self responsibility today for adducing his
 evidence. However, learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff submits that the plaintiff will be produced
 on the next date of hearing as he could not come to
 the Court due to some unavoidable reason. Let the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility for adducing his evidence on the date
 to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th October, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 in RSA

AW-1: Statement of Shri Jagat Ram, S/o Shri Ranjit Singh
aged about 56 years, presently working as Assistant Engineer,
Namhol Sub Division, HPPWD, Namhol, District Bilaspur,
Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 25.10.2024
 Stated that presently I am working as Assistant
 Engineer in Sub Division Namhol from 29.07.2021. I am fully
 conversant with the contents of the present case. I have been duly
 authorized by the Executive Engineer, Bilaspur Division No.2,
 HPPWD, Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, to adduce on behalf of the
 applicant. The then Engineer Shri Anil Kumar remained our
 Superintending Engineer (SE) during the year 2022. The present
 appeal had been filed under the signature of Shri Anil Kumar
 Sharma and after the removal of objection, the present application
 was filed under the signature our present Superintending Engineer,
 namely Shri Jeet Singh Thakur. I know the signature of the then
 Superintending Engineer and the present Superintending Engineer
 since I have worked with them. The present appeal along with
 application have been prepared, vetted and filed under my
 supervision. The present appeal could not be filed within the time.
 There is about ten months delay in filing the present appeal. The
 lower appellate court passed the judgment on 29.11.2021. The
 department received the information regarding the decision of the
 lower appellate Court on 16.12.2021, through the District Attorney
 Bilaspur. Thereafter, we sent the present case for the opinion of our
 department on 28.12.2021. After processing the case file, the
 department send the case file of this case to us on 01.04.2022, after
 getting the opinion for filing the present appeal. The draft appeal
 was prepared under my supervision and the same was sent for
 further processing to the higher authorities. On 03.12.2022, after
 vetting the appeal the same was received in our department, which
 was got signed by the Superintending Engineer on 13.12.2022 and
 CMP(M) No. 1159 of 2023 in RSA
 lastly on 09.01.2023, the appeal was filed before the Hon'ble High
 Court of Himachal Pradesh. The delay in filing the present appeal
 was not intentional nor wanton but due to aforementioned bonafide
 reasons. Therefore, the delay in filing the appeal may be condoned
 to facilitiate substantial justice. xxx xxx xxx Shri Manish Gupta,
 Advocate for the respondents. It is correct that no official conversation with respect to
 processing the present case file within the department has been
 placed on record with the present application. Self stated that it is
 in our official record. It is incorrect that after receiving the
 judgment and decree of first appellate court from the office of
 District Attorney, the case file could be sent to the legal department
 directly without sending it to the Superintending Engineer Office. It
 is incorrect that after receiving the judgment and decree from the
 District Attorney no effective steps were taken within time bound
 manner and due to the lapse on the part of the department the file
 was not sent within time for obtaining the legal opinion. It is correct
 that despite of signing the appeal on 13.12.2022 by the SE, the
 appeal could not be filed uptil 09.01.2023. It is correct that as per
 our record, the opinion of Government was received on 01.04.2022
 for filing the present appeal. It is incorrect that from 01.04.2022, till
 09.01.2023, no effective steps for filing the appeal has been taken
 by the department. Self stated that due to shortage of the staff as
 well as other formalities the same could not be filed till 09.01.2023.
 It is incorrect that due to laxity on the part of the department the
 appeal could not be filed within time. It incorrect that I am
 deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

25th October, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1180 of 2023 Statement of Shri H.S. Rawat, Additional Advocate
 General with Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 25.10.2024
 Stated that I give up Shri Ramesh Kumar,
 Senior Assistant being repetitive in nature and also close
 the evidence on behalf of the applicant.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

25th October, 2024
 (Pritam)1180
 CMP(M) 1180 of 2023 in RSA
 25.10.2024
 Present: Shri H.S. Rawat, Additional Advocate General
 with Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 the applicants. Shri Manish Kumar Gupta, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Statement of Shri Jagat Ram is recorded as
 AW-1. Vide separate statement, leanred Additional
 Advocate General give up other witness Shri Ramesh
 Kumar, who is present in the Court. Leanred
 Additional Advocate General also closed the evidence
 on behalf of the applicants. Learned counsel for the respondents, vide
 his separate statement also submits that he does not
 want to lead any evidence in rebuttal on behalf of the
 respondents. Accordingly, the evidence is complete.
 Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th October, 20224
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1180 of 2023 Statement of Shri Manish Kumar Gupta, Advocate, for
 the respondents. Without Oath
 25.10.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any evidence
 in rebuttal on behalf of the respondents.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

25th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 PW-6: Statement of Shri Sunil Suman S/o Shri Sahi Ram, aged about
 41 years, R/o Krishna Niwas, Village Badash, P.O. A.G.
 Office, Tehsil & District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 28.10.2024
 Stated that I was working as Manager in the franchise
 of Adidas which was taken by Shri Sunil Khanna, in the name of
 M/s Puran Chand Satya Paul Khanna, from the year 2009 to 2017. I
 use to maintain the stock, sale and purchase of their business. The
 Adidas company use to give minimum guarantee to M/s Puran
 Chand Staya Paul Khanna to the tune of Rs.2,90,000/-
 approximately per month. The minimum guarantee was paid by
 Adidas to the firm uptil December, 2012. The company has sent
 their representative namely Shri Kartik Sood to the firm to introduce
 new concept, namely Adidas SIS in place of old concept/agreement
 dated 09.09.2009. As per the new concept, the Adidas company
 had to sent the fresh stock and in lieu of that the firm had to pay an
 amount to Rs.5,00,000/-, which was paid to the Adidas company.
 Inspite payment of Rs. 5,00,000/- the fresh stock was never sent by
 the Adidas company. However, the company use to sent the
 discount coupons. Due to the non-sending of the fresh stock by the
 defendants company there was drastic fall in the sales of the firm
 and the firm suffered huge losses. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Pranjan Munjal, Advocate for the defendant. I was engaged by Shri Sunil Khanna as Manager to
 look-after his business of the firm. At the time of my appointment
 there were two partners of the plaintiff firm namely Shri Sunil
 Khanna and Shri Rajneesh Khanna. I was not given any
 appointment letter by the firm at the time of my engagement. No
 agreement was executed between plaintiff and defendant in my
 presence at the initiation of the business. I never attended any Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 meeting subsequently when the terms and conditions of the business
 concept was changed. I have never seen the documents regarding
 change of new business concept. I am not aware of the terms and
 condition of the new SIS concept. It is incorrect that there was no
 terms and conditions regarding depositing of Rs. 5,00,000/- on
 account of the new concept for receiving the fresh material. Self
 stated that I have myself deposited the said amount in the Bank
 Account of the defendant-company. The plaintiff firm had engaged
 one accountant for looking of the accounts of the firm. The name of
 the said Accountant was Shri Bhuvan Sharma. I am graduate. I
 have never studied Accounts in my studies. Self stated that I use to
 check/assist the accounts of the firm. The plaintiff-firm use to file
 the Income Tax Return. The same was used to be filed by the
 Accountant and I have never filed the return for the firm. It is
 incorrect that I was not aware about the monetary transaction
 between the plaintiff and the defendant. It is incorrect that today I
 am deposing only on the asking of the plaintiff No.2. It is incorrect
 that the defendant-company had to supply the fresh stock only after
 the fulfilling of the terms of the MOU, which was never complied
 by the plaintiff-firm. It is incorrect that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

28th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 PW-7: Statement of Shri Neeraj Kumar, Senior Executive Accounts,
 aged about 44 years Blue Dart Express Limited , SCO 270,
 Sector-14, Panchkulla, Haryana

 On Oath
 28.10.2024
 Stated that I am Senior Executive Accounts, in the
 Blue Dart Express Limited. I am working in the said company from
 19.09.2007. The receipt Mark `A', has been issued by our
 company. The original receipt of Mark `A', is not available with
 the company as of date. xxx xxx xxx Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Pranjan Munjal, Advocate for the defendant. Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

28th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 4085 of 2013 28.10.2024
 Present: Mr. Dev Raj, Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Mr. Pranjal Munjal, Advocate, for the
 defendant. Statement of of Shri Sunil Suman and Shri
 Neeraj Kumar, are recorded as PW-6 and PW-7,
 respectively. As per office report, PW mentioned at
 Sl. No. 6, in the list of witnesses dated 16.11.2016, is
 reported to be un-served. Let fresh steps be taken for summoning
 the witness mentioned at Sl. No. 6, dated
 16.11.2016, in the list of witnesses within one week.
 Thereafter, the process be issued for the service of
 this witness for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th October, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 111 of 2021 PW-1: Statement of Mrs. Haripriya Mann W/o Shri Govind
 Singh Mann and aged about 60 years, R/o West Field
 Chotta, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 29.10.2024
 Stated that my date of birth is 27 th August, 1964. My
 father late Shri Suraj Jit Chaudhri expired on 17 th June, 2017. Me
 and my younger half sister namely Sonal Chaudhri Dhillon are legal
 heirs of my father. The properties of my father were HUF
 properties. My father was Karta of HUF. At the time of his death
 he left property at Delhi situated at No.20, Friends Colony West,
 New Delhi, properties at Dalhousie known as Chander Cottage and
 Ekantika and property at Village Ralhan, District Hoshiarpur
 Punjab. All the above said properties were HUF properties. My
 parents took divorce in the year 1967 when I was about three years
 old. In the property situated at Bakrota (District Chamba) the name
 of my father in the revenue has been mentioned as Shri Surjeet
 Singh. Self stated that the actual name of my father Suraj Jeet
 Chaudhri. The property at Friends Colony New Delhi was
 purchased by my grand father late Shri Sadhu Ram Chaudhri in the
 month of October 1953. My grand father had expired in the year
 1955. My father had one brother namely Shri Kamal Jit Chaudhri.
 My father and my uncle (Chachha) had partitioned the property in
 Friends Colony in New Delhi in the year 1964. The property which
 came into the share of my father was given new number which is
 20-A, Friends Colony (West) New Delhi. My grand father had
 purchased the property at Friends Colony as Karta of HUF. The copy of the Sale Deed is Ex. PW-1/A. (Objected
 to on the ground of mode of proof. However, the said document has
 also relied upon by the defendant No.1, which has been admitted by
 the plaintiff). My father had entered into a collaboration agreement
 pertaining with Ventage Construction Company for the
development of the property situated at Friends Colony New Delhi.
As per the agreement my father was entitled to 46% share in the
built up portion. Due to the non fulfillment of the terms and
conditions of the said agreement, it landed into litigation in Delhi
Court. There are about three-four cases, out of which two are still
pending in the appellate Courts and the other two cases have been
disposed of by the Trial Court and the Appellate Court. In two
cases, which are pending in the Delhi High Court, I and my sister
(defendant No.1) are party in that cases in the capacity of legal heirs
of my father. There are three houses which are in the possession of
my sister in the property situated at 20-A, Friends Colony, New
Delhi. Self stated that one is occupied by my sister, second has
been rented out and third one which is in the basement is is used by
her as a Store. The apartment/house has been rented out by my
sister to lady namely Ms. Sonia Singh. The rent of the said house
in the year 2017 was about 2.75 lacs per month, which might have
been increased as of date. After the death of my father, I issued the
notice to the revenue authorities in Delhi and Dalhousie regarding
the death of my father to inform about the factum of the death of my
father. The copies of the notices is Ex. PW-1/B, Ex. PW-1/D, Ex.
PW-1/F, Ex. PW-1/ F and the postal receipts are Ex. PW-1/ C,
Ex. PW-1/ E, Ex. PW-1/ H, Ex. PW-1/ J and acknowledgment
receipts are Ex. PW-1/ K and Ex. PW-1/ L. I have also received a
letter from South Delhi Municipal Corporation to defendant No.1,
which is Mark `A'. My father was suffering from Heart ailment, brain
strokes also. My father had suffered first brain stroke in the year
2005 and thereafter in the year 2006 and 2011. The stroke of 2011
was major one. Due to the stroke in the year 2011, his right side
was affected and he was even to move independently as well as to
eat himself. His speech had also become slurred. The health of my
father was deteriorated after the stroke in the year 2011. He was
 totally dependent on the attendant with him. The treatment of my
father was done in Fortis Escorts Hospital and Army Hospital at
Delhi. I have annexed the record of the treatment of my father with
my suit. Escort Hospital had allotted a permanent ID Number
00111671 to my father. My relation with my father were affectionate and
cordial. He frequently use to visit me at my place. I also use to visit
him at Dalhousie and Delhi. We also use to take him for outside at
my Farm House at Uttar Pradesh and to visit at Delhi, Shimla and
other places. My children also accompanied to different places in
Himachal Pradesh and other places. When we visited Dalhousie,
defendant No.1 also accompanied us. At that time defendant NO.1
was unmarried. When I was at Delhi I use to visit my father twice a
month. Most of the time I use to visit along, some time my
husband and friends also visit to him. My husband refused to
accompany me later as he found the environment hostile against us.
All the movable items like jewelry FDRs etc., are in the possession
of my half sister (defendant No.1). I lastly visit my father in 20-A,
Friends Colony, New Delhi six-seven months ago before his death.
When I lastly visit my father, he was in a crouched in and foetal
position. His eyes were blank and he was not responding. He was
not even able to recognizing me. My father was involved in a criminal case pertaining to
Sikand Murder Case as a prime accused. He remained in Tihar Jail
for about eight-nine months in the year 2008. I use to visit him
when he was in Tihar Jail as I was on the visitors list. During my
visit my father use to tell me to inform/ give direction to his
Advocates. During my visit to Tihar Jail my husband also
accompanied me some times. Mr. Ram Jethmalani and Mr.
Minocha represented him in that case. Ultimately, he was acquitted
in that case. I not aware about any Will which is alleged to have
been executed by my father. He was not in a fit state of mind prior
 to his death to execute a Will and he had died within seventeen days
from the execution of the alleged Will. xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Janesh Gupta,
 Advocate for the defendant. It is correct that the property situated at 20, Friends
Colony, New Delhi was purchased by my grand father prior to my
birth. My grand father was in Police. He was first IGP of Delhi. I
am not aware that my grand father had made an oral gift in favour of
my father and my uncle (Kamal Jit Chaudhri). I have not seen the
revenue record pertaining to property 20, Friends Colony
personally. I am not aware that the revenue authorities had attested
the mutation Number 1335 in favour of my father and my uncle on
16.03.1954. My father was Army Officer. I am not aware when he
joined the Army. My uncle Shri Kamal Jit Chaudhri was working in
some company. I do not know the name of that company. I am not
aware the period during which he worked in the company. I am not
aware whether the partition which was affected in the year 1964
between my father and uncle was oral or through registered
document. Before filing of the present suit I have not procured the
revenue record pertaining to 20, Friends Colony, New Delhi. My
father used to stay with my uncle Shri Kamaljit Chaudhri in his
house and as and when I use to visit my father, I met him also. Self
stated that even after the death of my father, I visited my uncle at his
house. My uncle use to stay in his house at 20-A, Friends Colony,
New Delhi. I am not aware where my uncle is staying as of date.
My uncle is alive to my knowledge. After the demise of my father I
visited my uncle's house as he wanted to show me some documents.
When I visited the house of my uncle along with my niece then he
showed me a document which was alleged to be Will of my father.
 My father had two sisters, namely Sheel and Usha. I came to know
that the property situated at 20 Friends Colony is HUF from the Sale
Deed, where it is mentioned in his handwriting that he had
purchased the said property as Karta of HUF with him and his two
sons Suraj Jit and Kamal Jit. It is correct that my grand father Shri
Sadhu Ram had purchased the property i.e. 20, Friends Colony
New Delhi from his own funds. I have never seen the income tax
return filed by my grand father. I have not seen any other document
except Sale Deed mentioning that the property in dispute is HUF. It
is incorrect that my grand father never constituted HUF nor he was
Karta of HUF. I have seen the copies of the collaboration
agreement which was executed between my father and Vantage
Construction Company. One suit each was filed by my father and
Vantage Construction Company against each other. In the other
two suits, I was not a party. It is correct that my father used to
pursue the suits personally during his life time. It is correct that
after the death of my father I received notice from the Court being
legal heir of my father. I have not seen any document pertaining to
the renting out of one apartment by defendant No.1 to Ms. Sonia
Singh. I cannot recall from where I ascertain that the rent of the
said apartment was 2.75 lacs per month in the year 2017. I do not
know when the said apartment was rented out by defendant No.1.
Self stated that the same was rented out prior to the death of my
father. I am not aware that the said apartment was rented out by my
father or by defendant No.1. I am not aware that defendant No.1
was holding power of attorney on behalf of my father during his life
time. Chander cottage was initially owned by Rai Bahadur Dewan
Chand Saini. Sh. Rai Bahadur Dewan Chand Saini was father of my
dadi Smt. Shanta Chaudhri. It is correct that shi Bahadur Dewan
Chand Saini had purchased the house and land at Dalhousie. My
dadi was married Sh. Sadhu Ram Chaudhri. I do not know that on
account of the marriage with my dadi the name of my dada Sh.
Sadhu was included along with the name of Sh. Rai Bahadur Dewan
 Chand Saini to the extent of half share. To the best of knowledge it
is correct that Sh. Rai Bahadur Dewan Chand Saini had two sons
namely Sh. Prakash Chand Saini and Sh. Ishwar Chand Saini. It is
correct that the half share pertaining to the Sadhu Ram Chaudhri
was subsequently inherited in the name of my father. I do not know
that there was a partition amongest my father and uncle pertaining
to Chander Cottage in the year 1964. I do not know that a deed has
been registered to that effect on 3rd October, 1964. To my
knowledge we have got the jamabandi pertaining to Chander
Cottage. As per my knowledge the built up structure is on the half
land and the rest of the area is vacant in Chander cottage. It is
correct that in the year 2007 my father had sold some portion of his
share to Sh. Amrinder Singh. It is correct that at the time of filing of
the present suit I am aware that some portion of the property had
been sold to Amrinder Singh by my father. It is correct that I have
not made Sh. Amrinder Singh as defendant in the present suit. It is
correct that property Ekantika was purchased by my father in the
year 1991 from Brgd. V.S. Bajwa. I am aware about the property
known as Oakvale situated at Dalhousie. It is correct that Oakvale
was owned by my grand-mother Smt. Shanta Chaudhri. It is correct
that the said property was sold, however, I do not remember the year
of selling. I have gone through the written statement filed by
defendant No.1. I have not tried to procure the record pertaining to
the properties namely Ekantika and Oakvale after the filing of the
written statement by defendant No.1. I believe that my father had
also purchased some property at Jandrighat (Dalhousie) from Sh.
Rajkumar Brijender Singh. I believe that the said property was
vacant land. It is correct that there was some civil dispute between
my father and Sh. Rajkumar Brijender Singh. Probably the suit was
filed in the H.P. High Court. I am not aware about the out come of
the said case. I have not tried to procure the documents pertaining
to that property. I am not aware about the sale consideration of the
said property. I am not aware that the suit filed by my father against
 Sh. Rajkumar Brijender Singh was decreed by the High Court in the
year 2008. I do not know that after the decree passed by the High
Court my father filed the execution petition. I do not know during
the pendency of the said execution petition my father expired. I am
not aware that the balance payment in the execution petition
amounting to Rs. 13,50,000/- was paid by the defendant No.1. It is
incorrect that at the time of death of my father all the properties was
owned by my father as sole owner. It is also incorrect that the said
properties were not HUF properties. It is correct that I have not
contributed any amount towards the litigation expenses during the
life time of my father. I am not aware the initiation of the Sikand murder trial.
I am not aware about the details of the Court where it was tried.
During the trial he was granted bail. I am not aware about his bail
conditions. After the conviction in that trial he was lodged in jail.
My father had given me the copy of the judgment of his conviction.
The trial was continued in the trial court for more than five years. I
do not remember the exact time of the trial. The trial was conducted
by Advocate Manocha. Self stated that my father had engaged
several lawyer for engaging his case. My father might have paid the
fee of the lawyers himself. I do not know which lawyer filed appeal
on his behalf. I am not aware which Court acquitted my father and
in which year. It is incorrect that I never visited my father in jail.
My signature were always obtained by the jail authorities whenever
I visited the jail. Self stated that some time my signatures were
obtained. It is incorrect that my husband never accompanied me to
jail to meet my father. I have not tried to procure any record
regarding my visitation to Tihar Jail. I might have some documents
which can show that I visited my father in Tihar Jail. I have not
given those documents to my Advocate before filing of the present
suit. It is incorrect to suggest that I never visited the Tihar Jial
during the lodging of my father. It is also incorrect that I have made
wrong statement to that effect. At this stage, since the Court time is over , therefore the
 cross-examination is deferred for today. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

29th October, 2024
 (GM) Civil Suit No. 111 of 2021 29.10.2024
 Present: Mr. Ajay Kumar, Sr. Advocae with Mr. Rohit,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Bhupinder Gupta, Sr. Advocate with Mr.
 Janesh Gupta, Advocate, for defendant No.1. Sh. Surinder Saklani, Advocate for defendant
 No.2. Defendants No. 3 to 6 already ex-parte. Cross-examination of PW-1 Smt Hari Priya
 Maan is deferred, since the Court time is over. Let the matter be listed before Additional
 Regisgtar (Judicial) for fixing the date for further
 cross-examination of this witness. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
29th October, 2024
 (GM) COMS No. 33 of 2018 06.11.2024
 Present: Shri Manoj Sharma, vice Shri Yash Sharma,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Oshin Anand Chauhan, Advocate, vice
 Ms. Kamakshi Tarlokta, Advocate for
 defendants No. 1 and 2. Ms. Aruna Chauhan, Advocate for defendant
 No.3. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that the plaintiff is not present today for adducing his
 evidence and he seeks adjournment for today. The perusal of the case file shows that three
 opportunities have already been granted for the presence of
 the plaintiff for adducing his evidence. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 62 of 2020 07.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Bhushree Jain, Advocate, vice Shri
 Naresh Verma, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Shri Varun Chauhan, Advocate, vice Shri
 Vivek Sharma, Advocate, for the defendants. As per office report, steps for summoning the
 witnesses have not been taken. Learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff seeks time. Let steps be taken within fifteen days and the
 plaintiff be produced on self responsibility for adducing his
 evidence on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 2157 of 2023 08.11.2024
 Present: None for the parties. Neither any list of witnesses nor any steps for
 leading evidence have been taken by the learned counsel for
 the applicant. In compliance to the order dated 03.10.2024 of
 the Hon'ble Court, the needful was required to be done
 within one week. The undersigned cannot extend the time
 already granted by the Hon'ble Court. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
8th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 87 of 2011 DW-6: Statement of Shri Kavi Khanna, aged about 58
 years S/o Late Shri Surinder Khanna, R/o 6, The
 Mall, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.11.2024
 I am business man and I have my shop on the Mall
 Road, Shimla, in the name and style of M/s G.D. Khanna and Sons,
 6, The Mall, Shimla. My shop is rented shop. I have four stories in
 the building qua that shop. The total floor area of my shop is about
 1800-1900 Sq. fts, approximately. The landlord of my shop is H.P.
 State Co-operative Bank. The monthly rent of my aforesaid shop is
 Rs.3,100/- per month. The said shop is in our possession as rented
 accommodation since the year 1936 as per my knowledge. xxx xxx Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate,
 with Ms. Pooja, Advocate, for the

 Today I have not brought any document showing the
 rent of the said shop. I can not tell when the rent was settled qua
 our shop. I cannot tell the exact year of the settlement of the rent of
 our shop. I cannot be tell that the above rent was settled in the year
 1936 or later. I do not know that the rent of the similarly situated
 shop in the possession of Raman Jewellers has been fixed by the
 Court @ Rs. 500 per sq. ft. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 87 of 2011 DW-7: Statement of Shri Dhiraj Chandel, aged about 52
 years, present posted as Architect Planner,
 Municipal Corporation, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 11.11.2024
 I am posted as Architect Planner in Municipal
 Corporation Shimla from October 2024. The record which was
 requisitioned is not traceable from the particular given in the
 summons. Self stated that the record cannot be traced out due to
 non-availability of the sanction order. xxx xxx Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate,
 with Shri

 Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

11th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 87 of 2011 11.11.2024
 Present: Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate with for
 the plaintiffs. Shri Arvind Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Statements of Shri Kavi Khanna and Shri
 Dhiraj Chandel, are recorded as DW-6 and DW-7,
 respectively. Let the witnesses mentioned in the list of
 witnesses at Sl. No. 1 and 2, dated 28.05.2016 be
 summoned for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th November, 2024
 (Pritam) RSA No. 63 of 2023 11.11.2024
Present: Shri Saurav Rattan, Advocate, for the
 applicant/respondent. None for the State. In compliance to the order dated 15.05.2024/
21.10.2024, the applicant Ravi Kumar has filed the
application for attestation and acceptance of personal and
surety bond for the release of the amount to the applicant as
directed by the Hon'ble Court. I have gone through the personal bond of Ravi
Kumar as well as surety bonds of Ms. Priyanka Goel w/o
Manish Goel, Usha Rana w/o of Pardeep Kumar and Ms.
Neha Goel w/o Ashish Goel. The surety bonds are duly supported by
affidavit and the sureties have been identified by the
learned counsel for the applicant. The applicant has also
annexed the copy of Jamabandi for the years 2022-2023,
duly issued on 05.11.2024, copies of the aadhar cards of the
applicant and sureties, as well as reports of the Patwari
dated 08.08.2024 and 06.11.2024, duly Counter Signed by
Naib Tehsildar Naraingarh, Haryana, whereby it has been
reported that the value of the property of the sureties is
Rs.24,00,000/- (Rs. Twenty four lacs) and the shares of the
said sureties are free from all encumbrances. Accordingly, the personal and sureties bonds
 are duly attested and accepted by me. Let the needful be
 done in compliance to the order dated 15.05.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 662 of 2023 in RSA

AW-1: Statement of Shri Manoj Sharma, S/o of Shri Sewak
 Ram Sharma, aged about 35 years, presently posted
 as Clerk in the office of District Attorney, Shimla,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 12.11.2024
 I am working as Clerk in the office of District Attorney
 Shimla from year, 2017. The State has filed the present appeal
 against the judgment learned ADJ-I, Shimla, which was decided on
 30.11.2022. the Copy of the judgment was applied by the District
 Attorney on 01.12.2022 and after prepration the copy was receivedf
 on 19.12.2022. thereafter, after examining the judgment by the
 learned ADA, he gave his opinion on 28.12.2022, for filing the
 appeal in the High Court. The grounds of the appeal was prepared
 by the District Attorney and the same was sent to the office of the
 Principal Secretary (Home) on 04.01.2023. The copy of the said
 letter is Mark `A'. Thereafter, the matter was sent to the Law
 Department and the Law Department also gave the opinion for filing
 the appeal. After obtaining the opinion, of the Law Department, the
 Principal Secretary (Home) conveyed the opinion to the District
 Attorney qua assailing the judgment vide letter dated 27.02.2023,
 Mark `B'. The said letter was received in the office of District
 Attorney Shimla, on 03.03.2023. On 19.04.2023, a letter dated
 13.04.2023, Mark `C', (produced by the witness today) was
 received in the office of District Attorney, which was marked to me.
 On the receipt of the letter Mark `C', it was noticed that some file
 from the office of Principal Secretary (Home) has been addressed to
 the office of District Attorney Shimla. Thereafter, the said file was
 traced in the office on 25..05.2023 and the same was put up before
 the District Attorney, Shimla. Due to the misplacing of the file in
 the office the same could not be put up before the District Attorney,
 Shimla. The explanation of the concerned officials were called for
 CMP(M) No. 662 of 2023 in RSA

 by the District Attorney. Thereafter, the District Attorney send the
 same for filing the appeal in the High Court along with the opinion
 of the Law Department and other relevant documents. The copy of
 the latter dated 25.05.2023, is Mark `D'. Thereafter, the appeal
 was filed. The delay in filing the appeal was neither intentional nor
 wilful but due to the aforementioned reasons. xxx xxx Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate,
 with Shri Sumit Advocate, for the
 respondent. Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 662 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Ms. Ranjna Patial & Ms. Sunaina
 Chaudhary, Deputy Advocates General, for the
 applicants. With out Oath
 12.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine witnesses namely
 Shri Goverdhan and Shri Prithvi Singh and give them up being
 repitative in nature. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 662 of 2023 in RSA

 12.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Ranjna Patial & Ms. Sunaina Chaudhary,
 Deputy Advocate General, for the applicants.
 Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri
 Sumit, Advocate, for the respondent. Statements of Shri Manoj Sharma is recorded
 as AW-1. Learned Deputy Advocate General submits the
 appellants/applicants intend to file an application for
 examination of some additional witnesses. Learned Deputy
 Advocate General further submits that they will move the
 appropriate application within one week. On filing of the said application, let the matter
 be listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th November, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 DW-1: Statement of Bhagwan Dass Manwani, S/o Shri
 Namomal Manwani, aged about 59 years, R/o FW09,
 37-C, M3M, Golf Estate, Golf Course Extension
 Road, Sector-65, Gurugram Haryana. On Oath
 12.11.2024
 Stated that the plaintiff is known to me since
 2016-2017. The plaintiff used to send goods to me at
 Delhi and I used to make payment for the same. The
 Bhagwan Dass & Comapny is the firm in which my wife
 namely Rita. B. Manwani is the proprietor. The said firm
 is a firm which operates on commission basis with respect
 to sale purchase of fruits. As the plaintiff was known to
 me since the year 2016 so in continuation of that the
 plaintiff approached me and gave me a lucrative offer to
 provide me apples at a very compatative price and asked
 for some advance, whereupon I gave him certains amounts
 which has been mentioned in my written statement. The
 said amount advanced by me may be approximately 2.5
 crorers. I had asked the plaintiff to return the said amount
 telephonically and regarding which heated arguments also
 took place between me and the plaintiff. He also did not
 send any goods to me with regard to the above said
 payments. The plaintiff instead of returning the said
 amount has filed the present suit against me. Nothing is
 due from my side to the plaintiff. xxx xxx Shri Prem P. Chauhan, Advocate
with Ms. Shikha Rajta, Advocate, for the
plaintiff. I am authorized signatory in defendant firm. I
 use to make the payments in lieu of the transactions made
 by the defendant-firm. It is incorrect that the abbrivation
 of the defendant-firm is BXN. There is one firm in the
 name of Internation Apple Agency which belongs to me. I
 have never done any transaction from the firm namely
 International apple agency for the transaction of
 defendant-firm. I do not have any litigation pending in
 any manner regarding apple business with any growers or
 any other forwarding agency. I have paid an amount of
 Rs. 2.5 crores as advance to the plaintiff from
 International Apple Agency. I have maintained the record
 in my books of accounts qua the said payment. I have not
 annexed any document showing the concerned transaction.
 It is incorrect that I have not maintained any record in my
 books of account regarding the payment of Rs.2.5 Crorers
 to the plaintiff. It is incorrect that the payments shown in
 para-6 of the written statement only orresponds to the
 material/ goods which was received from the plaintiff by
 the defendant-firm. I cannot produce any agreement or
 document which could reflect that an amount of Rs. 2.5
 crorers has been paid by me as advance to the plaintiff.
 My mobile and whatsapp Number is 98100-58021. I have
 not received any whatsapp message Ex. PW-4/B ( 41 COMS No. 13 of 2019 leaves) from Shri Subhash qua the consignment send by
 him. I have made loan/advance on 29 different
 instalments in between 29.08.2018 to 23.03.2019. In
 between 29.08.2018 to 23.03.2019, Shri Subhash did not
 send even a single consignment to me. The apple seasons
 in Himachal starts in the month of August and remain
 uptil November. I kept on paying the advance to Subhash
 since he had promised me to supply the material as he has
 good relation in APMC and on his assurance I paid him
 advance uptil March, 2019. It is correct that I had not
 made any written correspondence with the plaintiff qua
 the sending of the material and advance payment in lieu of
 that. Self stated that I was in consistant touch with him
 telephonically. It is correct that I have not placed any
 telephonic record as stated above. It is incorrect that I
 have paid an amount of Rs.2,49,50,000/- on account of the
 material received from the plaintiff. It is incorrect that an
 amount of Rs.1,80,57,201/- is still to be paid by me to the
 plaintiff. It is incorrect that I am deposing falsely. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th November, 2024
 (Pritam)14 pt COMS No. 13 of 2019 Statement of Bhagwan Dass Manwani, S/o Shri
 Namomal Manwani, aged about 59 years, R/o FW09,
 37-C, M3M, Golf Estate, Golf Course Extension
 Road, Sector-65, Gurugram Haryana. Without Oath
 12.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine any other
 witness and close the evidence on behalf of the defendant.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th November, 2024
 (Pritam) COMS No. 13 of 2019 12.11.2024
 Present: Shri Prem P. Chauhan Advocate with Ms.
 Shikha Rajta, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Ravinder Malik, Advocate with Shri
 Shivanshu, Advocate vice Shri Vijender
 Katoch, Advocate, for the defendants. Statements of defendant Shri Bhagwan Dass, is
 recorded as DW-1. Vide his separate statement, he closed
 the evidence on behalf of the defendants. Since the evidence is complete, let the matter
 be listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 6553 of 2020 in RSA No. 602 of 2019

 13.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Seema K. Guleria, Advocate, for the non- applicants-appellants. Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri Bhagwati
 Chander Verma, Advocate, for the applicants-
 defendants. As per office report, witness Shri Chaman Lal is
 duly served and is present in the Court today. Learned vice counsel for the applicants-defendants
 submits that the Senior Counsel who has to examine this witness
 has to go out of station due to some urgent work. He seeks
 adjournment. The adjournment sought by the learned vice
 counsel for the applicants-defendants is not opposed by the
 learned counsel for the non-applicants. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned and the
 witness Shri Chaman Lal, who is present in the Court today, is
 discharged. Learned vice counsel further submits that he has
 paid the diet money to Shri Chaman Lal. Let fresh steps for summoning the witness at Sl.
 No.3, in the list of witnesses, be filed within fifteen days and this
 witness be summoned on the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) and the other witnesses namely Vijay
 Chauhan and Deep Chauhan be produced on self responsibility
 on the date so fixed. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
13th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 34 of 2014 14.11.2024
 Present: Shri Ajay Kumar Dhiman, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Ms. Samridhi Rathour, Advocate, vice Shri Rahul
 Mahajan, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2. Ms. Tamanna Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri Arush
 Matlotia, Advocate, for defendant No.4. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks time for
 filing the list of witnesses. Let the same be filed within two
 weeks. After filing the list of witnesses, let the plaintiff be
 produced on self responsibility on 16.05.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 OMP (M) No. 42 of 2016 in RSA No. 4272 of 2013

 14.11.2024
 Present: Shri Aman Thakur, Advocate, vice Ms. Kusum
 Chaudhary, Advocate, for the applicants. Shri Het Ram Thakur, Advocate, vice Shri Sanjeev
 Sood, Advocate, for non-applicant No. 1 to 3. None for non-applicants No. 4 and 5. As per report on the summon, the witness Alam
 Ram is duly severed through his wife. In-spite of the due and
 effective service, he did not put appearance for adducing his
 evidence. Let the notice under Order XVI, Rule 12, CPC , be
 issued to the witness, namely Alam Ram and fresh summons be
 issued for the service of this witness for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 DW-5. Statement of Ms. Divya Jain, W/o
 Shri Deepak Jain, aged about 55 years R/o
 House No. 720, Sector 22-A, Chandigarh. On Oath
 18.11.2024
 Stated that I was partner in M/s Bhangoo &
Company (defendant No.3). One deed Ex. DW-4/A-
1, was prepared on 3rd May, 2005, the said deed was
pertaining to admission-cum-retirement deed of the
partnership firm. Vide Ex. DW-4/A-1, four partners
namely Nachhatr Singh, Manjeet Kaur, Kuljeet Singh
Nagra and Mandeep Kaur Nagra were got retired and
one party namely Futuristic Solution Ltd. And
Futuristic Remedies Limited was added. I was partner
and in that capacity I appended my signatures in the
said deed on each pages, which is in red circle `A', in
Ex. DW-4/A-1. Thereafter, on 4th May, 2005, one
another deed of admission-cum-retirement Ex. DW-
4/A-2, was prepared and vide said deed I along with
Smt. Devender Kaur and Shri Varinder Singh also got
retired from the partnership firm. I identify my
signatures in the said deed which is in red circle `A'.
Thus, after 4th May, 2005, I have nothing to do with
the in the partnership firm M/s Bhangoo & Company. xxx xxx xxx Shri Tarunjeet
 Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for the plaintiff. On 4th May, 2005, all the partners informed
the Registrar of firms regarding retirement of of the
partners. I have not placed on record any document
showing that the Registrar of Firm have been informed
regarding my retirement from the said firm. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Pragti, Advocate
 vice Shri Digvijay Singh, Advocate,
 for the defendants No. 1, 6 and 7. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 37 of 2013 18.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tarunjeet Singh Bhogal, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri Anshul Attri, Advocate, for defendant
 No. 3. (Power of attorney is stated to have
 been filed in the Registry today).
 Defendants No. 4 and 5 already ex-parte.
 Ms. Pragati, Advocate, vice Shri Digvijay
 Singh, Advocate, for defendants No. 1,6
 and 7. Statement of Ms. Divya Jain, is recorded as
 DW-5. Shri Anshul Attri, learned counsel has filed
 memo of appearance on behalf of defendants No. 2 and
 8, which is taken on record. Learned counsel seeks six weeks time for
 filing fresh power of attorney on behalf of defendants
 No. 2 and 8 as his clients are out of country. Let the same be filed within six weeks and
 the case be listed before the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial) after filing of the power of attorney on behalf
 of defendants No. 2 and 8 for appropriate orders, if any. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
14th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 Criminal Appeal No. 233 of 2022

 18.11.2024
 Present: Mr. George, Advocate, for the appellant. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General for
 the respondent-State. Let PW-10, be summoned for 23.12.2024. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 63 of 2023 19.11.2024
 Present: Shri Aditya Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Kuldeep Chandel, Advocate, vice Shri Sumit
 Sood, Advocate, for the defendants. As per office report, list of witnesses on behalf of
 the plaintiff has been filed but the diet money has not been
 deposited so far. However, the list of witnesses on behalf of the
 defendants is also awaited. Further, an application (OMP No.
 993 of 2024) along with additional documents for dispensing of
 the true translated copies has also been filed by the plaintiff. Let the application OMP No. 993 of 2024 be listed
 before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. In the
 meanwhile, diet money for summoning the witnesses be filed
 within three weeks by the plaintiff and the plaintiff be produced
 on self responsibility for recording his evidence on 23.05.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 PW-2. Statement of Shri Lekh Raj Sharma,
 aged about 67 years, R/o Village
 Mubarkpur, District Una, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 19.11.2024
 Stated that I was posted as Assistant
Engineer in Electrical Sub Division, HPSEBL, Amb,
District Una, from November, 2010 to August, 2013.
The letter dated 02.06.2011, Mark `C', regarding
permanent disconnection of the electricity supply of
the defendant-company was issued by me. I identify
my signature which is red circle Ex. PW-2/A. The
letter dated 28.08.2012, Mark `B, was also issued
under my signature, which is in red circle Ex. PW-
2/B. The notice for disconnection of defaulting
amount dated 15.07.2013, Mark `D', was also issued
under my signature, which is in red circle Ex. PW-
2/C. The Himachal Pradesh Electricity Board Limited
also issued the bills to the defendants from the months
of May, 2013 to July, 2013, which is under my
signatures. The bills are Ex. PW-2/D, Ex.PW-2/E,
and Ex. PW-2/F, respectively (original bills Ex. PW-
2/D to Ex. PW-2/F are seen and returned). All the
other Exhibits signatures are objected to for want of
original. xxx xxx xxx Shri Sanjeev Bhushan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Sohail Khan,
 Advocate for the defendant. The first disconnection of the defendant
company was done on 02.06.2011 (Mark C). As per
the record, the outstanding amount at that time was
Rs.56,66,713/-. Thereafter, the electricity was re-
connected on 28.08.2012. The said reconnection was
done after the interim order passed by the Forum for
Redressal of Grievances of H.P.E.B.L. Consumer
Electricity (FRGC), Kasumpti, Shimla. After the
reconnection the defendant company had paid one or
two electricity bills. It is incorrect that after the
reconnection the defendant company had paid all the
electricity bills raised by the plaintiff. I do not know
which months bills were not paid by the defendant
company after reconnection. Self stated that I do not
remember the month, however, for some months in the
year 2013, the bills were paid by the defendant
company. After the fifteen days of the serving of the
notice dated 15.07.2013, Mark `D', the disconnection
might have been done. I do not remember the date of
further disconnection of the defendant company.
After serving of the notice the disconnection use to
take place after fifteen days. As per record, Mark `D' Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 on the date of the serving of notice of disconnection,
the outstanding amount of the defendant company was
Rs. 65,67,713/-. It is correct that bill Ex. PW-2/E, has
been issued under my signature and the date of issue
of the said bill is 05.07.2013. It is correct that there is
cutting in the amount on notice Mark `D'. I do not
remember the date of passing of the order by FRGC.
Self stated that the order had been passed after my
transfer from Amb, District Una. It is correct that
after my transfer from Amb I can not tell what
proceedings have been initiated by the defendant
company. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

19th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 Statement of Shri Dhananjay Sharma,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Without Oath
 19.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine Shri
Ashwanit Kumar, Junior Engineer, being repetitive in
nature. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

19th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2014 19.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Dhananjay Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Shri Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Sohail Khan, Advocate, for the defendant. Statement of Shri Lekh Raj is recorded as PW-2.
 Vide separate statement learned counsel for the plaintiff has
 given up the other witness Shri Ashwani Kumar, who is present
 in the Court. Let the other PWs, mentioned in list of witnesses
 filed by the plaintiff be summoned for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 72 of 2015 20.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Shri
 Dhananjay Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 Dr. Lalit K. Sharma, Advocate, for defendant
 No.2. Defendants No. 1, 3 and 4 already ex-parte. As per office report, the plaintiff was required to be
 produced on self responsibility today i.e., 20.11.2024. Learned
 Senior Counsel for the plaintiff submits that they have already
 taken the steps for summoning the witnesses. The perusal of order dated 12.08.2024, passed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial), shows that the steps for
 summoning the witnesses were required to be taken by the
 parties within fifteen days as per the direction of the Hon'ble
 Court, but the plaintiff has taken the steps on 21.06.2024, due to
 which, the plaintiff's have been directed to be produced on self
 responsibility. Learned Senior counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that she will move the appropriate application, since the
 witnesses cannot be produced on self responsibility by the
 plaintiff. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders after filing of the said application by the
 plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 62 of 2019 21.11.2024
 Present: Ms. Poonam Gehlot, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Sunaina, Deputy Advocate General, for
 defendants No. 1 to 3. Ms. Shikha Rajta, Advocate, vice Shri Aman
 Sood, Advocate, for defendant No.4. OMP NO. 1009 of 2024

 As per office report, OMP No. 1009 of 2024, was
 filed by defendant No.4, for adjournment of the case and the
 same was listed on 20.11.2024, before the Hon'ble Court,
 whereby the application has been ordered to be listed before the
 undersigned. The perusal of application shows that the
 adjournment has been sought on the ground of marriage function
 in the family of the learned counsel, representing defendant
 No.4. The said application has not been opposed by the
 opposing counsel. Accordingly, the same is allowed. Let the plaintiff
 be produced on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 PW-3. Shri Vikas Jain, S/o Shri S.L Jain,
 aged about 55 years, H.No. 17, Veer Nagar,
 Jain Colony Delhi-110007. Cross examination of the witness is
 resumed. On Oath
 22.11.2024
 Stated that I have signed document Ex. E-1
in the capacity of the Director of the defendant-
company. I have not retained EX. E-1. Self stated
that after signing the same, the said document was
handed over to the plaintiff. I had joined the
defendant-company in the year 2002-2003. I have not
resigned the said company, however, I had been
expelled from the company in the year 2018-2019. It
is correct that I have transferred all my shared in the
defendant company in favour of my mother in the year
2012. It is correct that vide letter 08.08.2012, Ex. D-1,
I transferred my share in favour of my mother. Due to
family dispute I transferred the said shares. It is
correct that my father and my brother were also
Directors in the defendant-company. It is correct that
defendant company was family owned company. I am
not aware about the minutes of the meeting (Mark
`A'), dated 23.01.2019, resolution dated 24.01.2019
(Mark `B'), and the information sent to the Registrar Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 of the Companies (ROC) (Mark `C' and Mark `C-1').
It is correct that in the month of January, 2019, I was
removed as Director from the defendant company.
Self stated that I got the said information from the site
of the ROC. I have signed the document Ex.E-1, on
01.05.2013. I do not remember that I have lastly
signed the balance sheet and statement of the accounts
of the company in the year 2011. I do not have any
document as of date to cross check about the signing
of the balance sheet and statement of the accounts. It
is incorrect that after the year 2011, all my powers as
Director to sign any document on behalf of the
company had been withdrawn by the defendant-
company. It is correct that plaintiff is my friend. It is
incorrect that today I am deposing false since the
plaintiff is my friend and in order to favour him. It is
incorrect that since there was family dispute with my
brother and father, therefore, I had signed Ex. E-1. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 Shri Amit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Without oath
 22.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
other witnesses mentioned in the list of witnesses and
close the evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

22nd November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2014 22.11.2024
 Present: Shri Amit Sharma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shrin Sanjay Sharma Darmora & Shri H.S.
 Upadhyaya, Advocates for the defendant. Cross examination of Shri Vikas Jain, PW-3, is
 complete. Vide separate statement learned counsel for the
 plaintiff closed the evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. Learned counsel for the defendant seeks time for
 taking the steps for DWs. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days.
 Thereafter, process be issued for the service of DWs for the date
 to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 146 of 2022 25.11.2024
 Present: Shri Balwant Singh Thakur, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri Karan Veer Singh, Advocate, for the
 defendants. As per the office report, the plaintiff was
 required to be produced on self responsibility. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 the plaintiff is not present today. However, due to certain
 changed circumstances he will have to amend the plaint and
 will move the appropriate application to that effect. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court
 after filing of the application by the learned counsel for the
 plaintiff. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 891 of 2022 in RSA 46 of 2017
 26.11.2024
 Present: Shri Manjeet Singh, Advocate, vice Shri G.R.
 Palsra, Advocate, for the applicants.
 Shri Khushi Ram Verma, Advocate, vice Shri
 O.P. Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 respondents. Learned vice counsel for the respondents
 submits that the respondent is not present today due to his
 personal problem and he will be produced on self
 responsibility on the next date of hearing. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today.
 Let the witnesses be produced on self responsibility on the
 date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Cr. MP(M) No. 2456 of 2023 26.11.2024
 Present: None for the parties. As per office report, steps for service of AWs
 have not been taken. Let the steps be taken within one week.
 Thereafter, the process be issued for service of AWs for
 02.01.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
26th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 in RSA

AW-1: Statement of Shri Jagat Ram, S/o Shri Ranjit
 Singh aged about 56 years, presently working
 as Assistant Engineer, Namhol Sub Division,
 HPPWD, Namhol, District Bilaspur, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 I am working as Assistant Engineer in Sub
 Division Namhol from 29.07.2021. I am conversant with
 the factual position of the present case. I have been duly
 summoned from the Court for adducing evidence and I
 have been duly authorized by the Executive Engineer,
 Bilaspur Division No.2, HPPWD, Bilaspur on behalf of
 the applicant. Engineer Shri Anil Kumar remained our
 Superintending Engineer (SE) during the year 2022. The
 present appeal has been filed under the signature of Shri
 Anil Kumar Sharma and thereafter, after removal of
 objection, fresh present application was filed under the
 signature of present Superintending Engineer, namely Shri
 Jeet Singh Thakur. I am conversant with the signature of
 the then Superintending Engineer and the present
 Superintending Engineer. The present appeal along with
 application have been prepared, vetted and filed under my
 supervision. The present appeal could not be filed within
 the stipulated time. There is more than nine months delay
 in filing the present appeal. The first appellate court
 passed the judgment on 29.11.2021. The department
 received the information regarding the decision of the first
 CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 in RSA

appellate Court on 16.12.2021 through the District
Attorney Bilaspur. Thereafter, we sent the present case
for the opinion of our department on 28.12.2021. After
processing the case file the department send the case file
to us on 01.04.2022 after getting the opinion for filing the
present appeal. Thereafter, draft appeal was prepared
under my supervision and the same was sent further
processing to the higher authorities. On 03.12.2022, after
vetting the appeal was received in our department, which
was got signed by the Superintending Engineer on
13.12.2022 and finally on 09.01.2023, the appeal was filed
in the Hon'ble High Court. The delay in filing the present
appeal was neither intentional nor willful but due to
aforementioned bonafide reasons. xxx xxx xxx Shri Manish Gupta,
 Advocate for the respondents. CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 in RSA

 It is correct that no official conversation
regarding processing the case file within the department
has been placed on record with the application. Self
stated that it is in our official record. It is incorrect that
after receiving the judgment and decree of first appellate
court from the office of District Attorney the case file
could be sent to the legal department directly without
sending it to the Superintending Engineer Office. It is
incorrect that after receiving the judgment and decree
from the District Attorney no effective steps were taken
 CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 in RSA

 within time bound manner and due to the lapse on the part
 of the department the file was not sent within time for
 obtaining the legal opinion. It is correct that the
 application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act along
 with the memo of appeal were drafted by me. The same
 were drafted and were reached in the office of Chief
 Engineer on 15.09.2022. It is correct that in-spite of
 signing of the appeal on 13.12.2022 by the SE, the appeal
 could not be filed uptil 09.01.2023, Self stated that due to
 paucity of the staff as well as other codal formalities, the
 same could not be send till 09.01.2023. It is correct that
 the appeal was submitted to the office of Learned
 Advocate General on 11.10.2022 and the it was vetted on
 03.12.2022. Self stated that there were some objections
 from the Advocate General office and after making
 requisite corrections, it was finally vetted and filed. It is
 incorrect that due to laxity on the part of the department
 the appeal could not be filed within time. It incorrect that
 I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General for the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I give up Shri Ramesh Kumar,
 Senior Assistant being repetitive in nature and also
 close the evidence on behalf of the applicant.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 1158 of 2023 Statement of Shri Manish Kumar Gupta,
 Advocate, for the respondents. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence in rebuttal. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 668 of 2023 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, aged about
 42 years, presently working as Deputy Ranger
 Prosecution, in the office of DFO Nahan,
 District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy Ranger
 (Prosecution) in the office of Divisional Forest Officer
 (DFO), Nahan, since 2018. On 09.06.2022, record of this
 file was marked to me with the direction to deliver the
 same in the office of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest
 (HOFF), Shimla. I delivered the same on 15.06.2022,
 accordingly. After completion of the process in the Head
 Office the file was received by me for vetting on
 20.01.2023, which was submitted by me to the office of
 learned Advocate General on 21.01.2023. After
 completing the codal formalities finally the RSA was filed
 in the High Court on 22.03.2023 by the concerned officer. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Virender Singh Chauhan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. The judgment was passed by the first appellate
 Court on 17.02.2022. I do not know when the copy of the
 said judgment was applied. It is correct that the office of
 the Conservator of Forest, Nahan and the office of DFO
 Nahan, are in the same town. In between 15.06.2022 to
 21.01.2023, the file was routed through different offices CMP(M) No. 668 of 2023 for vetting and other codal formalities. The file might
 have been sent to the H.P. Secretariat for taking the
 approval, to District Attorney (Forest), PCCF office
 Shimla and to the Advocate General office. It is correct
 that whenever a file moves in different offices then the
 noting is to be made by the concerned office. I do not
 know whether any such notings are placed on record
 before filing the appeal. It is incorrect that I am deposing
 false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 668 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
 other witnesses being repititive in nature and give
 them up. I also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 668 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the respondent. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of respondent. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, aged about
 42 years, presently working as Deputy Ranger
 Prosecution, in the office of DFO Nahan,
 District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy Ranger
 (Prosecution) in the office of Divisional Forest Officer
 (DFO), Nahan, since 2018. On 09.06.2022, record of this
 file was marked to me with the direction to deliver the
 same in the office of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest
 (HOFF), Shimla. I delivered the same on 15.06.2022,
 accordingly. After completion of the process in the Head
 Office the file was received by me for vetting on
 20.01.2023, which was submitted by me to the office of
 learned Advocate General on 21.01.2023. After
 completing the codal formalities finally the RSA was filed
 in the High Court on 22.03.2023 by the concerned officer. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Virender Singh Chauhan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. The judgment was passed by the first appellate
 Court on 17.02.2022. I do not know when the copy of the
 said judgment was applied. It is correct that the office of
 the Conservator of Forest, Nahan and the office of DFO
 Nahan, are in the same town. In between 15.06.2022 to
 21.01.2023, the file was routed through different offices CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 for vetting and other codal formalities. The file might
 have been sent to the H.P. Secretariat for taking the
 approval, to District Attorney (Forest), PCCF office
 Shimla and to the Advocate General office. It is correct
 that whenever a file moves in different offices then the
 noting is to be made by the concerned office. I do not
 know whether any such notings are placed on record
 before filing the appeal. It is incorrect that I am deposing
 false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
 other witnesses being repititive in nature and give
 them up. I also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the respondent. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of respondent. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, aged about
 42 years, presently working as Deputy Ranger
 Prosecution, in the office of DFO Nahan,
 District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy Ranger
 (Prosecution) in the office of Divisional Forest Officer
 (DFO), Nahan, since 2018. On 09.06.2022, record of this
 file was marked to me with the direction to deliver the
 same in the office of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest
 (HOFF), Shimla. I delivered the same on 15.06.2022,
 accordingly. After completion of the process in the Head
 Office the file was received by me for vetting on
 20.01.2023, which was submitted by me to the office of
 learned Advocate General on 21.01.2023. After
 completing the codal formalities finally the RSA was filed
 in the High Court on 22.03.2023 by the concerned officer. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Virender Singh Chauhan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. The judgment was passed by the first appellate
 Court on 17.02.2022. I do not know when the copy of the
 said judgment was applied. It is correct that the office of
 the Conservator of Forest, Nahan and the office of DFO
 Nahan, are in the same town. In between 15.06.2022 to
 21.01.2023, the file was routed through different offices CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 for vetting and other codal formalities. The file might
 have been sent to the H.P. Secretariat for taking the
 approval, to District Attorney (Forest), PCCF office
 Shimla and to the Advocate General office. It is correct
 that whenever a file moves in different offices then the
 noting is to be made by the concerned office. I do not
 know whether any such notings are placed on record
 before filing the appeal. It is incorrect that I am deposing
 false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
 other witnesses being repititive in nature and give
 them up. I also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the respondent. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of respondent. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 672 of 2023 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, aged about
 42 years, presently working as Deputy Ranger
 Prosecution, in the office of DFO Nahan,
 District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy Ranger
 (Prosecution) in the office of Divisional Forest Officer
 (DFO), Nahan, since 2018. On 09.06.2022, record of this
 file was marked to me with the direction to deliver the
 same in the office of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest
 (HOFF), Shimla. I delivered the same on 15.06.2022,
 accordingly. After completion of the process in the Head
 Office the file was received by me for vetting on
 20.01.2023, which was submitted by me to the office of
 learned Advocate General on 21.01.2023. After
 completing the codal formalities finally the RSA was filed
 in the High Court on 22.03.2023 by the concerned officer. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Virender Singh Chauhan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. The judgment was passed by the first appellate
 Court on 17.02.2022. I do not know when the copy of the
 said judgment was applied. It is correct that the office of
 the Conservator of Forest, Nahan and the office of DFO
 Nahan, are in the same town. In between 15.06.2022 to
 21.01.2023, the file was routed through different offices CMP(M) No. 672 of 2023 for vetting and other codal formalities. The file might
 have been sent to the H.P. Secretariat for taking the
 approval, to District Attorney (Forest), PCCF office
 Shimla and to the Advocate General office. It is correct
 that whenever a file moves in different offices then the
 noting is to be made by the concerned office. I do not
 know whether any such notings are placed on record
 before filing the appeal. It is incorrect that I am deposing
 false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 672 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
 other witnesses being repititive in nature and give
 them up. I also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 672 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the respondent. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of respondent. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 670 of 2023 AW-2: Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, aged about
 42 years, presently working as Deputy Ranger
 Prosecution, in the office of DFO Nahan,
 District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I am working as Deputy Ranger
 (Prosecution) in the office of Divisional Forest Officer
 (DFO), Nahan, since 2018. On 09.06.2022, record of this
 file was marked to me with the direction to deliver the
 same in the office of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest
 (HOFF), Shimla. I delivered the same on 15.06.2022,
 accordingly. After completion of the process in the Head
 Office the file was received by me for vetting on
 20.01.2023, which was submitted by me to the office of
 learned Advocate General on 21.01.2023. After
 completing the codal formalities finally the RSA was filed
 in the High Court on 22.03.2023 by the concerned officer. Xxx xxx xxx Shri Virender Singh Chauhan,
 Senior Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. The judgment was passed by the first appellate
 Court on 17.02.2022. I do not know when the copy of the
 said judgment was applied. It is correct that the office of
 the Conservator of Forest, Nahan and the office of DFO
 Nahan, are in the same town. In between 15.06.2022 to
 21.01.2023, the file was routed through different offices CMP(M) No. 670 of 2023 for vetting and other codal formalities. The file might
 have been sent to the H.P. Secretariat for taking the
 approval, to District Attorney (Forest), PCCF office
 Shimla and to the Advocate General office. It is correct
 that whenever a file moves in different offices then the
 noting is to be made by the concerned office. I do not
 know whether any such notings are placed on record
 before filing the appeal. It is incorrect that I am deposing
 false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 670 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Tejasvi Sharma,
 Additional Advocate General for
 the applicants. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to examine the
 other witnesses being repititive in nature and give
 them up. I also close the evidence on behalf of the
 applicants. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 670 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate for the respondent. Without Oath
 27.11.2024
 Stated that I do not want to lead any
 evidence on behalf of respondent. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 669 of 2023 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the applicants. Shri Virender Singh Chauhan, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, is
 recorded as AW-2. Vide separate statement Shri
 Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General,
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants.
 Vide separate statement, Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 learned counsel for the respondent also stated that he
 does not want to lead any evidence on behalf of the
 respondent. Accordingly, the evidence is complete
 on behalf of the parties. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 672 of 2023 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the applicants. Shri Virender Singh Chauhan, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, is
 recorded as AW-2. Vide separate statement Shri
 Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General,
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants.
 Vide separate statement, Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 learned counsel for the respondent also stated that he
 does not want to lead any evidence on behalf of the
 respondent. Accordingly, the evidence is complete
 on behalf of the parties. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 670 of 2023 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the applicants. Shri Virender Singh Chauhan, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, is
 recorded as AW-2. Vide separate statement Shri
 Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General,
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants.
 Vide separate statement, Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 learned counsel for the respondent also stated that he
 does not want to lead any evidence on behalf of the
 respondent. Accordingly, the evidence is complete
 on behalf of the parties. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 673 of 2023 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the applicants. Shri Virender Singh Chauhan, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, is
 recorded as AW-2. Vide separate statement Shri
 Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General,
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants.
 Vide separate statement, Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 learned counsel for the respondent also stated that he
 does not want to lead any evidence on behalf of the
 respondent. Accordingly, the evidence is complete
 on behalf of the parties. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 668 of 2023 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General, for the applicants. Shri Virender Singh Chauhan, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Statement of Shri Ranjeet Singh, is
 recorded as AW-2. Vide separate statement Shri
 Tejasvi Sharma, Additional Advocate General,
 closed the evidence on behalf of the applicants.
 Vide separate statement, Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 learned counsel for the respondent also stated that he
 does not want to lead any evidence on behalf of the
 respondent. Accordingly, the evidence is complete
 on behalf of the parties. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) 1158 of 2023 in RSA
 27.11.2024
 Present: Shri Tejasvi Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General , for the applicants. Shri Manish Kumar Gupta, Advocate, for
 the respondents. Statement of Shri Jagat Ram is
 recorded as AW-1. Vide separate statement,
 leanred Additional Advocate General give up
 other witness Shri Ramesh Kumar and also
 close the evidence on behalf of the applicants. Learned counsel for the
 respondents, vide his separate statement, also
 submits that he does not want to lead any
 evidence in rebuttal on behalf of the
 respondents. Accordingly, the evidence is
 complete. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
27th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 122 of 2022 28.11.2024
 Present: Shri Ashok Kumar, Advocate, vice Shri
 Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Defendants No. 1 to 6 already ex-parte. Shri Abhishek, Advocate, vice Shri Maan
 Singh, Advocate, for defendant No.7. Learned vice counsel for the
 plaintiff seeks time for filing the list of
 witnesses and submits that he will produce the
 plaintiff's witnesses on self responsibility. Let the list of witnesses be filed
 within fifteen days, thereafter, the plaintiff be
 produced, at the first instance, on the date to
 be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
28th November, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 126 of 2022 02.12.2024
 Present: Shri Trigun Singh Negi, Advocate, vice
 Ms. Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. None for the defendants. necessary correction be made in the memo of
 parties. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff
 seeks time for taking the steps. Let the steps be taken within fifteen
 days and the plaintiff be produced on self
 responsibility on 04.06.2025. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
2nd December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 in RSA

 RW-1: Statement of Shri Babu Ram, S/o Shri
 Damoder, aged about 70 years, R/o Mohal
 Sapera, Mauza Boh, Tehsil Shahpur, District
 Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 03.12.2024
 Stated that the appellant has filed the present
 appeal beyond the period of limitation in order to harass
 me. I have filed Execution Petition of the judgment
 passed by the learned trial Court. The appellant use to
 appear in that execution petition. Certified copies of the
 zimini orders in the execution petition is Ex. RW-1/A,
 ( six leaves). xxx xxx xxx Shri Goldy Kumar, Advocate,
 for the respondent. It is incorrect that the appellant use to appear
 personally in the execution petition before the trial Court.
 It is incorrect that I am deposing false. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 in RSA

 Statement of Shri Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate,
 for the respondent. Without Oath
 03.12.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
 the respondent, since the list of witnesses has been
 exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 285 of 2023 in RSA
 03.12.2024
 Present: Shri Goldy Kumar, Advocate, for the
 applicant/ appellant. Shri Sanjay Jaswal, advocate, for the
 non-applicant-respondent. Statement of Shri Babu Ram is
 recorded as RW-1. Vide separate statement,
 learned counsel for the respondent closed the
 evidence on behalf of the respondent. Evidence of the parties is complete.
 Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 PW-7: Statement of Shri Imran Khan, S/o Late Abdul
 Rehman, aged about 38 years, R/o Gassour,
 P.O. Jukhla, Tehsil Sadar, District Bilaspur,
 Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 03.12.2024
 Stated that I was transporter in the year 2012. I
 was having a truck bearing Registration No. HP-24B-
 1502. In the year 2012, I use to take the consignment of
 apple of Shri Satish Mehta who use to work in the name
 and style of M/s Ram (Royal apple merchant). His shop
 was at Ekant Wari, near Narkanda, Shimla. My truck was
 hired by Shri Satish Mehta for about two and half months
 i.e. in the months of August 2012 till October, 2012. I
 use to take the assignment from Narkanda to Transport
 area Sector-26, Chandigarh. The consignment was to be
 delivered to Mr. Sabbarwal, who was doing business in
 the name and style Tara Business group. While sending
 the consignment, the plaintiff use to provide me
 challan/bilties of the consignment and at the time of
 delivery of consignment the said challan/bilties was
 handed over to Mr. Sabbarwal or his employee at
 Chandigarh. The first apple consignment of M/s Royal
 Apple Merchant was taken by me to Chandigarh on
 09.08.2012. Thereafter, I took the different consignment
 on different dates to Chandigarh. I have taken 19-20
 consignment on different dates. After handing over the
 consignment to Mr. Sabbarwal or his employees the Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 consignment was unloaded in his trucks and the freight
was use to be paid to me in cash by Mr. Sabbarwal or his
employee, which was already mentioned in the challan.
After the consignment was delivered Mr. Sabbarwal use to
confirm the delivery of consignment telephonically to Shri
Satish. I used to drive my truck. xxx xxx xxx Shri Jeevesh Sharma, Advocate,
 for the defendants No. 1 to 4. Generally, three bilties are being prepared
before the consignment is handed over to the transporter.
The plaintiff use to give me one bilty along with Form of
HPMC, while handing over the consignment. It is correct
that the consignment was checked as per the bilty. Self
stated that thereafter the freight was given. It is incorrect
that the consignee used to receive the consignment on the
bilty and thereafter, handed over the same to me so that
the bilty will be delivered to the consignee. I have not
seen any document today in the case file, which bears the
signature of the consignee or his employee. I did not take
the consignment of anybody else except the plaintiff firm
in the year 2012. It is incorrect that I also took the
consignment of the plaintiff to other places apart from
Chandigarh. Whenever I use to take the consignment of
the plaintiff firm at that time the other trucks were also
carrying the goods of the plaintiff firm. Self stated that
four-five trucks were also carrying the consignment of the Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 plaintiff-firm. It is incorrect that neither I took any
consignment of the plaintiff nor the same was delivered to
the consignee in the year 2012, because I have not seen
my signature qua receiving of the consignment in any of
the document in the case file. It is incorrect that I am
deposing false today on the asking of Shri Satish Kumar. xxx xxx xxx Shri Peeyush Verma, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Manoj Sharma,
 Advocate, for defendants No. 5 and 6. I came to know about the dispute between
plaintiff and Mr. Sabbarwal after one year, when I again
visited the plaintiff next year. At that time, Shri Satish
Kumar did not disclose that he is about to file any case in
the Court against Mr. Sabbarwal. I use to take the
consignment from Ekant Wadi near Narkanda to Sector-
26, Chandigarh. I have not seen any transporter bilty in
the court file today nor I have been asked to bring the
same. Self stated that as of date I have left the transport
business. I used to maintain the record pertaining to the
plying of my truck at the time when I was working as
transporter. I have not brought any such record today. I
had paid the inter-state taxes qua my truck at that time.
Mr. Satish Kumar came in my contact in the year 2012
itself. It is incorrect that I am deposing false today on the
asking of Shri Satish Kumar. It is incorrect that I was not
owning the truck bearing registration No. HP-24B-1502. I
have brought the photocopy and Insurance Policy of the Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 said truck. Self stated that the said truck was in the name
 of ownership of my brother Ashraf Ali. My brother is hail
 and hearty as of date and he is in a position to depose. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 Statement of Shri Parmod Thakur,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Without Oath
 03.12.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
 the plaintiff in affirmative, since the list of witnesses
 has been exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 11 of 2016 03.12.2024
 Present: Shri Parmod Thakur, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Jeevesh Sharma, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 1 to 4. Shri Peeyush Verma, Senior Advocate
 with Shri Manoj Sharma, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 5 and 6. Statement of Shri Imran Khan, is
 recorded as PW-7. Vide separate statement,
 learned counsel for the plaintiff closed the
 evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. PW-7, has also filed the reply to the
 notice under Order XVI Rule 12 CPC . The
 reasons given in the reply seems to be plausible.
 Accordingly, the notice is dropped. Learned counsel for the defendants
 seeks time for taking the steps for DWs. Let the
 steps be taken within fifteen days, thereafter, the
 proceess be issued for the service of Dws,
 returnable for the date to be fixed by the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 405 of 2023 in RSA No. 292 of 2008
03.12.2024
Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior Advocate
 with Shri Harshit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 non-applicant-respondents. The application under Order XXXIX
 Rule 2A (CMP(M) No. 405 of 2023, has been
 listed today for recording the evidence of the
 applicant, whereby the summons has also been
 issued and the witnesses, namely Krishnu
 (applicant), Shri Parkash Chand Sharma, Senior
 Assistant from the office of Assistant Engineer,
 HPSEBL, Darlaghat, District Solan, H.P., Ms.
 Lalita Sharma and Shri Daya Ram, are present. However, learned counsel for the
 applicant submits that there are two applications
 under Order XXXIX Rule 2A, bearing CMP(M)
 No. 405 of 2023 and CMP(M) No. 1026 of 2022,
 in which similar issues have been framed by the
 Hon'ble Court and similar set of witnesses are
 required to be examined by the applicant. Learned Senior Counsel further
 submits that he will move the appropriate
 application for clubbing both of the applications
 CMP(M) No. 405 of 2023 in RSA No. 292 of 2008

 so that the witnesses can be examined at one
 point of time in both the applications. Learned senior counsel for the
 applicant seeks adjournment, which is not
 opposed by the learned senior counsel for the
 respondents. Accordingly, the witnesses, who are
 present today are discharged. Let the case be
 listed before the Hon'ble Court as and when the
 appropriate application is filed by the applicant. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 87 of 2021 04.12.2024
 Present: Shri Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Suneet Goel, Senior Advocate, with
 Shri Vishwas Kaushal, Advocate, for the
 defendants. In compliance to the order dated 20.11.2024
 of the Hon'ble Court, Learned Counsel for the plaintiff
 has placed on record the original documents, as per list
 of documents annexed therewith, which are taken on
 record. Learned counsel representing the defendants
 submits they require some more time for filing fresh
 power of attorney on behalf of the defendants, as Senior
 Counsel cannot do the admission and denial of the
 documents and only after filing of the power of attorney,
 the duly authorized counsel can do the needful. Accordingly, Learned counsel for the
 defendants seeks two weeks time to file the power of
 attorney on behalf of the defendants. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for the date already fixed i.e., 16.12.2024, for
 appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8073 of 2017 in RSA No. 390 of 2012
04.12.2024
Present: Shri Sahil Malhotra, Advocate, for the
 applicant. Shri Neeraj Gupta, Senior Advocate, with
 Shri Ajeet Pal Singh Jaswal, Advocate, for
 the non-aplicant-respondents. As per office report AW-1 (Smt. Indu
 Katyal) and AW-2, are duly served. Smt. Indu
 Katyal is present today, however, despite due and
 effective service AW-2, is not present. Learned counsel representing the
 parties submit that there are three applications
 (CMP No.161 of 2013, CMP No. 8073 of 2017
 and CMP No. 603 of 2021) under Order XXXIX
 Rule 2A CPC and in CMP No. 8073 of 2017, the
 issues have been framed on 07.09.2021,
 however, in the other two applications, the
 pleadings are complete but the issues in the
 aforesaid two applications (CMP No. 161 of
 2013 and CMP No. 603 of 2021) have not been
 framed yet. Learned counsel for the applicant
 submits that in all the three applications, almost
 same set of witnesses are required to be
 examined and it will be in the interest of justice
 CMP No. 8073 of 2017 in RSA No. 390 of 2012

 that all the witnesses in the aforesaid three
 applications be examined at one point of time.
 Therefore, learned counsel for the parties submits
 that the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court
 for framing of the issues, if so required. Accordingly, the witness Smt. Indu
 Katyal, who is present in the Court today is
 discharged. Let the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 45 of 2023 05.12.2024
 Present: Shri Atul Jhingan, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Rajinder Kumar Sharma, Advocate, for
 the defendant. As per the office report, one application i.e.,
 OMP No. 961 of 2024, has been filed by the applicant-
 defendant for recalling of the order dated 28.08.2024,
 passed by the Hon'ble Court. The application was listed
 on 08.11.2024, before the Hon'ble Court and reply to
 that application has been ordered to be filed within two
 weeks. The perusal of the application shows that the
 defendant is praying for taking on record the written
 statement filed by the defendant. Today the case has been listed for plaintiff's
 evidence. Since the matter is sub-judice before the
 Hon'ble Court, regarding taking on record the written
 statement filed by the defendant, therefore, it would be in
 the interest of justice that the statement of the witnesses
 be recorded only after the adjudication of the present
 application. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court as per the order dated 08.11.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8235 of 2019 in RFA No. 405 of 2014
 05.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Learned counsel for the parties submits that
 they require some time for assisting the undersigned
 regarding respective calculations involved in the present
 matter and they seeks adjournment today. Accordingly, let the matter be listed on
 10.12.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8234 of 2019 in RFA No. 406 of 2014
 05.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Learned counsel for the parties submits that
 they require some time for assisting the undersigned
 regarding respective calculations involved in the present
 matter and they seeks adjournment today. Accordingly, let the matter be listed on
 10.12.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8236 of 2019 in RFA No. 65 of 2014
 05.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Learned counsel for the parties submits that
 they require some time for assisting the undersigned
 regarding respective calculations involved in the present
 matter and they seeks adjournment today. Accordingly, let the matter be listed on
 10.12.2024. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
5th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 PW-10: Statement Smt. Manorma Sharma W/o
 Shri Gopal Krishan Sharma, aged about 70
 years, R/o Phase-I, Sector-II, Lane-I, New
 Shimla-71 009. On Oath
 06.12.2024
 Stated that my property is situated at New
 Shimla, opposite community center. I have given four
 floors of my building on rent to the defendants on
 10.01.2006 on the basis of the offer through
 advertisement made by the defendants. After taking
 the possession on 10.01.2006, within one month the
 defendants without taking the permission/consent,
 they started to renovate the building at their own end
 by using drilling machine and making partition in the
 building. Some of the renovations i.e., toilets and
 stairs were also carried out through me by the
 defendants. I repeatedly made to the oral request to
 the defendants not to carryout any renovation at their
 own end. But they did not pay any heed to my
 legitimate request and carried on with the renovation.
 I have also made complaints to the police against the
 defendants at Police Station New Shimla. I also made
 a complaint to the General Manager Food Corporation
 of India (FCI), vide letter Ex. PW-10/100, regarding
 the damaged caused to the MCV and the other Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 damages caused to the building. I also made complaint
to Police In-charge Police Chowki, New Shimla, on
04.08.2018, which is Ex. PW-10/101, which was duly
received by me to the MHC, New Shimla. I also
clicked the photographs Mark A-1 to Mark A-26, of
the damages which was being caused to my building
by the defendants. I have suffered pecuniary damages
to an amount of Rupees about 1.00 crore caused by
the defendant as of date. I also suffered mental
torture and harassment on account of the conduct of
the defendants which cannot be measured in terms of
money. In-spite of my repeated request to vacate the
premises the defendant has not vacated till date and
they are also not paying the agreed rent. xxx xxx xxx Shri Y.P. Sood, Advocate,
 for the defendant. I have given entire details of the damages
which was being caused by the defendants to my
building at the time of filing of the suit. At the time
of filing of the suit I had claimed the damages to the
tune of Rs.30,00,000/-. Self stated that subsequently,
the defendants use to diminish the value of the
property consistently. It is correct that I have given
the premises to the defendants for the use of official
purpose. It is incorrect that neither the defendants Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 caused any damage to the MCV or Sewerage Line of
 the tenanted premises. It is correct that as per the
 terms and conditions of the tenancy I have to maintain
 the building. Self stated that I got the premises white
 washed from my pocket despite the fact that the
 defendants did not pay agreed rent. It is incorrect that
 the defendants are making the payment of the agreed
 rent to me as per the terms of the tenancy. It is
 incorrect that neither the defendants caused any
 damage to the building nor I suffered any loss on that
 account. It is incorrect that I am leveling false
 allegation against the defendants in order get the
 vacant possession of my building by adopting
 pressurize tactics. It is incorrect that the photographs
 Mark A-1 to Mark A-26, are not pertaining to the
 defendants. Self stated that the defendants did not pay
 the agreed rent after taking of the possession of my
 property. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 PW-9: Statement Shri B.C. Sharma, S/o Shri Kali
 Dass Sharma, aged about 74 years, R/o
 Chanchal Cottage Totu, Shimla-171 011. On Oath
 06.12.2024
 Stated that I am qualified evaluator and I am
 doing the said work since from the last about 30
 years. I visited the site of Mrs. Manorma Sharma, on
 her request in the month of October, 2023, to assessed
 the damages to the property of the plaintiff which was
 given on rent by her to the defendants. After assessing
 the damages on the spot I prepared the report which is
 Ex. PW-9/B. As per my report, the there is a damage
 to an amount of Rs.35,70,000/- to the premises of the
 plaintiff. When I visited the premises of the plaintiff, I
 also clicked the photographs which are Ex. PW-9/C-1
 to Ex. PW-9/C-47. xxx xxx xxx Shri Y.P. Sood, Advocate,
 for the defendant. I visited the premises of the plaintiff twice
 firstly on 03.10.2023 and 30.10.2023. I have
 mentioned only one date i.e. 30.10.2023, in my report
 Ex. PW-9/B. I preliminary inspected the building on
 03.10.2023 and clicked the photographs. I have not Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 mentioned in my report that I visited premises of the
plaintiff on 03.10.2023 and on the same day clicked
the photographs. I did not give any notice in writing
to the employee of FCI. Self stated that I verbally
requested them to join the inspection. The official to
whom I made a oral request the name of the official
has been mentioned in my report. It is incorrect that I
did not associate any of the official of the FCI while
inspecting the premises, therefore, I did not mentioned
the name of the said official in my report. Neither I
was provided nor I requested for the map of the
premises from the owner. The premises of the plaintiff
is about 20 years old. It is incorrect that if the proper
maintenance is not made in regular course then the
natural bear and tears occurs in the building. Self
stated that which I have observed in the building is not
due to natural bear and tear. I have given the complete
details regarding all the damages of the building in my
report. It is correct that the premises in dispute is
being used for official purposes. It is incorrect that the
aluminum partition were temporarily done by the
defendants for making the sitting arrangement for
official and staff members. Self stated that the same
were done by drilling holes in the walls. The holds in
the walls were about 15 years old. It is incorrect to Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 suggest that neither I visited the premises nor I
 assessed any damages in the building. It is incorrect
 that I have prepared my report only on the asking of
 the plaintiff. While inspecting the premises I had
 prepared the rough notes. Self stated that I have
 destroyed that notes after preparing the final report.
 The quotations annexed with my report were taken by
 me from the respective contractors. The said
 contractor were not associated by me while inspecting
 the premises. The contractors have given the
 quotations after inspecting the premises at their own at
 the request of the plaintiff. All the quotations by the
 contractor are subsequent to my date of visit. It is
 incorrect that I have not prepared the any estimate of
 damages at my own and my entire report is only based
 upon the quotations given by the contractor. It is
 incorrect that suggest that I did not find any damage to
 the electerical wiring or fitting etc. It is incorrect that
 I am deposing false at the instance of the plaintiff.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 478 of 2023 06.12.2024
 Present: Shri Sidharth, Advocate, vice Shri Vinod Gupta,
 Advocate, for the applicant. Shri Sanjay Ranta, Advocate vice Shri Ajay Kumar
 Sharma, Advocate, for the respondent. As per the office report, AW is required to
 be produced on self responsibility. However, learned
 vice counsel for the applicant submits that the witness is
 not present, moreover the original counsel is also ill due
 to which he has also not come to the Court today.
 Learned vice counsel seeks adjournment for today,
 which is not opposed by the learned vice counsel for the
 respondent. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Let the witness be produced on self responsibility
 on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) CMP(M) No. 479 of 2023 06.12.2024
 Present: Shri Sidharth, Advocate, vice Shri Vinod Gupta,
 Advocate, for the applicant. Shri Sanjay Ranta, Advocate vice Shri Ajay Kumar
 Sharma, Advocate, for the respondent. As per the office report, AW is
 required to be produced on self responsibility. However,
 learned vice counsel for the applicant submits that the
 witness is not present, moreover the original counsel is
 also ill due to which he has also not come to the Court
 today. Learned vice counsel seeks adjournment for
 today, which is not opposed by the learned vice counsel
 for the respondent. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Let the witness be produced on self responsibility
 on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 Statement Smt. Manorma Sharma
 (Plaintiff)

 On Oath
 06.12.2024
 Stated that I close the evidence on behalf of
 the plaintiff, since the list of witnesses has been
 exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 06.12.2024
 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Sugandh Verma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri YP Sood, Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2. None for defendants No. 3. Statement of Smt. Manorma Sharma,
 and Shri B.C. Sharma, are recorded as PW-10 and PW-9,
 respectively. Vide separate statement plaintiff closed
 the evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. Learned counsel for the defendants seeks
 time for taking the steps for Dws. Let the steps be taken within fifteen days,
 thereafter, the process be issued for the service of Dws
 for the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 PW-1 Statement of Ms. Vaishali Mittal,
 W/o Shri Rohit Mittal, aged about 51
 years, R/o House No. 5520, Sector 38,
 (West), Chandigarh. On Oath
 09.12.2024
 Stated that I am Special Power of Attorney
Holder of Shri Rohit Goel, who is Plaintiff No. 1 in
the present suit. Shri Rohit Goel has executed Special
Power of Attorney (SPA) in my favour by authorizing
me to file, sign and appear and depose in all types of
petition Civil Suits and other judicial and quasi
judicial proceedings. The Special Power of Attorney
is Ex-PW-1/A. Myself, Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant
are children of Shri Shravan Kumar Goel. We are real
brothers and sister. Presently Plaintiff No. 1, namely
Sh. Rohit Goel is residing in United States of America
and has filed the present suit through me. Myself
along-with Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant are joint
owners in possession of the four storied structure built
upon land comprised in Khata/Khatauni No. 63/129,
Khasra No. 293 and 294, Kitas 2, measuring 362-28
sq. metres, situated at Mohal Palampur Khas, Tehsil
Palampur, District Kangra, identified as Goel Estate.
Certified copy of the jamabandi for the year 2014-
2015 of the above said property is Ex. PW-1/B. Our Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 father Shri Shravan Kumar Goel, had died on
08/02/2011. Copy of the Death Certificate is Mark-
`A'., leaving behind four legal heirs to succeed to his
rights, title and interest and estate. My father died
intestate and accordingly after his demise his estate
was succeeded to and inherited by his legal heirs in
equal proportions. There were four legal heirs of my
father at the time of his demise and they were namely
Smt. Jagriti Goel (Wife), Shri Rohit Goel (Son),
Myself (Daughter) and Shri Rahul Goel (Son). Our
mother Smt. Jagriti Goel, wife of Late Shri Shravan
Kumar Goel expired on 27/02/2024. Certified copy of
the Death Certificate is Ex. PW-1/C. Our predecessor
in interest namely Shri Shravan Kumar Goel had
purchased the land comprised in old Khata/Khatauni
No. 31min/77 (New Khata/Khatauni No. 63/129),
Khasra No. 293 and 294, measuring 362.28 sq metres
situated at Mohal Palampur Khas, Tehsil Palampur,
District Kangra vide sale deed dated 06/11/2000, duly
registered at Serial No. 1184 with the office of Sub
Registrar, Palampur, District Kangra. Certified copy
of the Sale Deed is Ex. PW-1/D. The said land as
reflected in the sale deed Ex. PW-1/D, was the self
acquired property of my father Late Shri Shravan
Kumar Goel. Over the said land my father Shri Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 Shravan Kumar Goel, had built a single story structure
in the year 2000-2001 and also partially built the 1 st
floor, which was left unfinished. After the demise of my father my brothers
namely Shri Rahul Goel and Shri Rohit Goel along-
with our mother Smt. Jagriti Goel took a loan from
Kangra Co-Operative Bank and thereby completed the
1st floor of the building on the land purchased by our
father. The said loan was repaid to Kangra Co-
Operative Bank by my both the brothers in and around
the year 2018. In the year 2019 Sh. Rohit Goel along
with Sh. Rahul Goel and our mother namely Smt.
Jagriti Goel, mutually decided and resolved to build
and construct two more additional floors over the
already constructed two floors over the land purchased
by my father. Accordingly both the brothers along
with my mother, in order to built and construct
additional two floors over the property took a loan
amounting to Rs.83,36,000/-from Punjab National
Bank, Palampur Branch. Copy of the loan agreement
is Mark `B'. The said loan was availed by my brothers
along with our mother, collectively on 04/02/2019 for
the purposes of construction of two additional floors
and in lieu of availing the loan amount they mortgaged
the suit property with the Punjab National Bank, Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 Palampur. It was mutually resolved between my
brothers as well as my mother that the loan
installments shall be paid by my mother and two
brothers equally. In mutual settlement it was agreed
that though the monthly EMI of the loan amount taken
is ₹ 66,212/-, however in order to waive of the
liability of the loan quickly, monthly instalments shall
be paid by paying Rs. 26,000/- by my mother and
Rs. 28,000/- each by my brothers on monthly basis.
Accordingly the monthly instalments were being paid
by my brothers and by my mother in above said ratio,
with total EMI of ₹ 82,000/- being paid to the bank
regularly and without any fault. The construction of
the additional two floors was started in the month of
February 2019 and was completed in the month of
March 2020. During the lifetime of my mother, there
was an oral family settlement between my mother and
brothers that the suit property identified as `Goel
Estate', being four storied building was amicably
partitioned and settled inter-se between myself and my
two brothers. One of the conditions of the oral family
settlement was that after the demise of my mother, the
monthly Bank Loan installment of ₹82,000/-, being
paid to the bank shall be equally shared and paid in the
ratio of ₹41,000/- each by my brothers. This was Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 unequivocally settled between the parties during the
lifetime of my mother. This fact was also recorded in
the Will of my mother. The certified copy of the
WILL of my mother is Ex. PW-1/E. After the demise
of my mother, the monthly loan installment falling
into the share of my brothers came to be ₹ 41,000/-
each per month. However, for the reasons best known
to my brother namely Sh. Rahul Goel (Defendant), he
resiled from the settlement arrived during the lifetime
of the my late mother and did not pay his share of the
EMI amounting to ₹ 41,000/- to the bank. He made
defaults on several and various occasions in paying the
EMIs to the bank. My brother, Shri Rohit Goel made
request to the bank to separate his loan account from
the defendant, however, same was not acceded to by
the bank on the grounds that in order to separate the
loan account from Defendant, No Objection would be
required from the Defendant. Accordingly, my brother
Sh. Rohit Goel (Plaintiff No.1) on various occasions
requested the Defendant to give no objection in
regards to separation of the loan account maintained
with the bank. But the Defendant Shri Rahul Goel,
blatantly refused to give the No Objection for
separation of the loan account. The Defendant is
consistently defaulting in making the payment of his Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 share in the EMIs, contrary to the agreed terms of the
oral settlement, which is further prejudicing the rights
of my brother (Plaintiff No. 1), in particular as the
liability with respect to the loan amount is joint and
several. My brother Shri Rohit Goel (Plaintiff No. 1),
is regularly paying his share of the EMI ₹ 41,000/-
after the demise of our mother and as per the terms
and conditions of the oral settlement arrived into
between the parties. The Defendant is consistently
defaulting in payment of his share of EMIs of ₹
41,000 and is further reluctant to separate the joint
loan account. Refusal to give no Objection to the
bank for separation of the loan account amounts to the
fact that Defendant has no intention of the repayment
of the loan amount. Presently my brother (Plaintiff
No.1) is paying entire installment of EMI (₹ 82,000/-)
of the Loan Amount in order to save and preserve the
suit property. The Plaintiff No.1, who is maintaining
the entire building and incurring expenditure for the
maintenance of the said building. Plaintiff No. 1 is
also paying the entire property tax with respect to the
property and also the water charges with respect to the
entire property/building. During the lifetime of my mother, there was
an oral family settlement/ partition arrived into Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 Plaintiff No. 1, myself and Defendant including my
 mother, whereby it was amicably resolved that the
 four floors of the building identified as `Goel Estate'
 built upon the above said land as defined Ex. PW-1/B,
 shall be partitioned as follows: tributed among her legal heirs during the said
 family settlement arrived between the parties. Recently, it has come to our knowledge that
our mother had executed a document in the name,
style and nature of Will, Ex. PW-1/E, in which the
testator (my mother) has reiterated the terms and con-
ditions of the oral family settlement arrived into be-
tween the parties. The document Ex. PW-1/E, exe-
cuted by my mother is not binding on the rights, title
and interest of the parties for the reasons that my
mother was not the absolute owner of the entire suit
property, which was purchased by my father in the
year 2000 and after his demise, she had inherited 1/4 th
undivided share in the suit property alongwith the
Plaintiffs and Defendant. My mother was only enti-
tled to bequeath her 1/4th undivided share in the suit
property as she was not the owner of the entire prop-
erty. After the demise of my father, our mother along
with myself, Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant had inher-
ited 1/4th undivided share in the suit property being the
legal heirs of Shri Shravan Kumar Goel. After the
demise of my mother, her share has devolved upon
Plaintiffs No. 1 and 2 and Defendant in equal propor-
tions. Presently, myself, Plaintiff No. 1 and Defendant
are joint owners to the extent of 1/3rd share Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 each in the suit property. The Plaintiffs and Defen-
dant are in settled possession of the respective floors
in the suit property pursuant to the oral family settle-
ment. The document Ex. PW-1/E, is the reiteration of
the oral family settlement arrived into between the
parties during the lifetime of our mother. During the
lifetime of our mother the said oral family settlement
was given effect as the maintenance and ancillary ex-
penditure of the ground floor was being looked after
by Shri Rohit Goel (Plaintiff No.1). The expenditure
and maintenance of the 1st floor, during the lifetime of
my mother was being looked after by my mother and
myself, collectively. Further, the maintenance and
expenditure of 2nd and 3rd floor of the building was be-
ing looked after by Shri Rohit Goel and Rahul Goel
respectively, being in possession of the same. As per
the responsibilities shared and expenditures incurred,
the floors were amicably partitioned and settled as per
oral family settlement, consented to by all parties in-
cluding the Defendant. The accounts as well as other
investments of my mother were managed as per the
nominations filed by her during her lifetime with the
respective banks and other asset management agen-
cies. As per the oral family settlement arrived
into between the parties during the lifetime of Smt.
Jagriti Goel, the ground floor had fallen exclusively
into the care of Plaintiff No. 1, however, in order to
maintain amicable, friendly and cordial relations
amongst brothers and sister the Plaintiff No.1 is de-
sirous of partitioning the ground floor, fallen into his
care as per the oral family settlement, in equal propor-
tions between Plaintiff No. 1 and 2 and Defendant.
The fact that the ground floor of the building had
fallen into the absolute care of Plaintiff No. 1 as also
fortified from the fact that the rent agreements of the
tenants in the ground floor of the building have been
executed in favour of Plaintiff No. 1, during the life-
time of Smt. Jagriti Goel. Plaintiff No.1 has been the
caretaker of the ground floor of suit property for last
more than 12 years. The suit property has been settled
and partitioned as per the oral family settlement and
the parties are in possession of the respective floors
and further the Plaintiffs do not intend to keep their
share joint with the Defendant, therefore, we are seek-
ing the partition of the 4 storied building by metes and
bounds. The copy of the Plan of the Building is Mark-
`C'. The Plaintiff No. 1 in particular has requested the
Defendant on numerous occasions to Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 amicably partition the suit property along with separa-
 tion of the joint loan account maintained with Punjab
 National Bank, Palampur Branch but the Defendant
 has refused to partition the suit property amicably. The Plaintiffs and Defendant are joint own-
 ers to the extent of 1/3rd share each in the suit property
 and we are seeking the partition of the entire suit
 property by metes and bounds and separate possession
 to the extent of our respective shares. We being the
 Plaintiffs are seeking the partition of the property as
 the Defendant is working to the detriment of Plaintiff
 No. 1. The Plaintiffs are also entitled to a decree of
 permanent perpetual injunction, thereby restraining the
 defendant from selling, alienating, encumbering or
 creating any charge or changing the nature of the suit
 property as Defendant in order to wriggle out of the
 loan liability is trying to sell and alienate the suit
 property to third parties. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 PW-2: Statement of Shri Nishant, aged about
 30 years Registration Clerk, Sub
 Registrar Office, Palampur, Tehsil
 Palampur, District Kangra, Himachal
 Pradesh. On Oath
 09.12.2024
 Stated that I am presently working as
 Registration Clerk, Sub Registrar Office, Palampur,
 from October, 2022. I have brought the original requisitioned
 record. As per my record, Ex. PW-1/E and Ex. PW-
 1/D, are true and correct and the same have been
 registered in our record. Original seen and returned.
 RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 Statement of Shri Gautam Sood,
 Advocate, for the plaintiffs. Without Oath
 09.12.2024
 Stated that I give up Shri Akshay Kumar,
 Patwari, Patwar Circle Palampur, since he has not
 brought the original record and the certified copy of
 the jamabandi has already been exhibited as Ex. PW-
 1/B, being perse-admissible. I also close the evidence
 in affirmative on behalf of the plaintiffs since the list
 of witnesses has exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

9th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Ex. Petition No. 20 of 2022 09.12.2024
 Present: Ms. Shivani Tekta, Advocate, for the
 applicant- decree holder. (Memo of
 appearance filed)

 In compliance to order dated
 30.08.2024, of the Hon'ble Court, the
 applicant/decree holder had furnished the Bank
 Guarantee. As per the office report, the Bank
 Guarantee bearing No. 0192024BG0Y00445,
 dated 09.10.2024, amounting to Rs.1,57,03,800/-
 furnished by the applicant has been duly verified
 by the Bank, vide email, received from the SBI
 Bank, Commercial Branch, Bhopal, M.P.

 Accordingly, the Bank Guarantee is
 accepted. Let the matter be processed further in
 compliance to the order dated 30.08.2024 of the
 Hon'ble Court. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 36 of 2024 09.12.2024
 Present: Shri Gautam Sood, Advocate, for the
 plaintiffs. Defendant already ex-parte. Statements of Ms. Vaishali Mittal and
 Shri Nishant, are recorded as PW-1 and PW-2,
 respectively. Vide separate statement, learned
 counsel for the plaintiff has given up Shri
 Akshay Kumar, Patwari and closed the evidence
 on behalf of the plaintiffs. Evidence is complete in the present
 case. Accordingly, the matter be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 PW-3: Shri Sandeep Singh S/o Shri Anoop
 Singh, Santaroza, Village Mauzakot,
 P.O. Dharampur, Kasauli, District
 Solan, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 10.12.2024
 The plaintiff-company vide Board of
Resolution Ex. PW-3/A, authorized me to do all the codal
formalities including deposing on behalf of the company
(objected to on the mode of proof). The memorandum and
article of association are Ex. PW-3/B. The plaintiff
company intended to purchase land at Dharampur-Kasauli
road, Village Sanwara. In lieu of that I along with
property dealer Shri Gurucharan Singh went to locate the
suitable land for the purpose of making a Hotel by the
company. Thereafter, we shortlisted a land situated at
village Sanwara. After due inquiry it was found that the
identified land was belonging to defendant No.1. The
details of the land is mentioned in the Jamabandies which
are Ex. PW-3/C (four leaves), Ex. PW-3/D (four leaves)
and Ex.PW-3/E (four leaves). Thereafter, the property
dealer Shri Gurucharan Singh introduced me to defendant
No.1. The negotiation were carried on between me and
defendant No.1, who apprised me that he has given the
rights for negotiating qua land to defendant No.2, through
his General Power of Attorney which is Ex. PW-1/A.
Thereafter, I contacted defendant No.2, qua the
negotiation of the said land. The total deal was settled for Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 that land on an amount of Rs. 1,75,00,000/-. Thereafter, an
agreement to sell Ex. PW-3/F, was executed at Solan
between the company through me and defendant No.2
regarding the purchase of the land of defendant No.1. I
identify my signatures in red circle `A', on agreement Ex.
PW-3/F. Shri Gurucharan Singh and Bhushan Kumar
also appended their signature on the said agreement as
witnesses. Defendant No.2, also signed the said
agreement in the presence of the witnesses. As per the
agreement the plaintiff company had paid an amount of
Rs.70,00,000/- to defendant No.2 through cheques. The
balance sale consideration was to be paid after the
permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and
Land Reform Act, which is to be taken by the plaintiff-
company. Apart from an amount of Rs.70,00,000/- the
company paid a further amount of Rs.20,00,000/- to
defendant No.2, through cheque. The details of the
cheques through which an amount of Rs.90,00,000/- was
paid is Mark `A'. The details of the cheques, which have
been issued for the payment of the amount detailed in
Mark `A', at Sl. No. 3 to 9, are Ex. PW-2/B-1 to Ex.
PW-2/B-7. The defendant No.1, had also executed an
affidavit Mark `B', qua authorizing defendant No.2, for
receiving the payment on behalf of defendant No.1. As
per the agreement defendant No.1 and 2 had to co-operate
with the plaintiff company for taking the necessary
permission qua obtaining the permission under Section Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act . Initially
for the two months the defendants No.1 and 2 co-operated
with the plaintiff-company but thereafter they started
linger on the matter qua taking the permission. They do
not provide necessary affidavit, income certificate and
other document required for the permission under Section
118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act. The
receipt qua receiving an amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- is Mark
`C'. The plaintiff company had also applied to the revenue
authorities qua demarcation of the land and the copy of
the report of the concerned Kanungo is Mark `D' (four
leaves). The Gram Panchayat Kausauli -Garkhal also
given the No Objection Certificate for obtaining the
permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and
Land Reforms Act. The copy of the same is Mark `E'.
The company has also applied for the issuance of No
Objection Certificate from the Town and Country
Planning Department and Tourism Department and the
letters from the respective Departments are Mark `F',
Mark `G', and the letter from the Electricity Department
is Mark `H'. Upto November, 2017, the plaintiff
company had paid an amount of Rs.90,00,000/- to the
defendants. The plaintiff company repetitively tried to
contact the defendant No.2 for providing the necessary
document but he use to linger on the matter on one
pretext to the other. The plaintiff company came to know
about the cancellation of the General Power of Attorney Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 by defendant No.1 in favour of defendant No.2, in the
month of April, 2018. Thereafter, I along with
Gurucharan Singh went to meet defendant No.1 who met
us in a shop on Kausauli road. At that time defendant
No.2, and the witnesses of the agreement were also
present there. We asked defendant No.1 to re-initiate the
negotiation as the company had already paid an amount of
Rs.90,00,000/- to him. But no proper response was
received from defendant No.1. Thereafter, we submitted a
letter to Tehsil (Urban) Kausauli (Mark `J') with the
request not to register any sale deed qua that land.
Thereafter, we issued a legal notice to defendants through
our Advocate which is Ex. PW-3/G. The copies of the
postal receipts are Ex. PW-3/H-1 and Ex. PW-3/H-2. The
defendant No.2, reply to the legal notice Ex. PW-3/G,
which is Mark `K'. Thereafter, we did not meet
defendant No.1 at any point of time. The plaintiff
company is ready and willing to comply the terms and
conditions of the agreement as of date and ready to pay
the entire consideration. The plaintiff company has
constructed one Hotel at Village Kot-Khas, Tehsil
Kasauli, District Solan, after filing of the present suit.
 xxx xxx xxx Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate,
 for defendant No.1. The plaintiff company deals multi purposes
businesses. Self stated that at that point of time the Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 company was running hospital. After the Board Meeting,
the minutes of the meeting are prepared which are kept as
record. Self stated that the company does not maintain
any separate register qua minutes of meeting. The
plaintiff company has two Directors. It is correct that
Ex. PW-3/A, has been signed by the Directors of the
company only. It is correct that there is no certification
regarding the true copy of the resolution. Self stated that
the said resolution was signed in original by the Directors.
It is incorrect that I have not been authorized by the
company to file the present suit. Property dealer
Gurucharan Singh is known to me from the year 2015.
The plaintiff company has done other deals through
property dealer Gurucharan Singh within the periphery of
Solan. Defendant No.2 was not known to me personally.
Shri Gurucharan Singh introduced me to defendant No.2.
When we saw the other with the other properties through
Gurucharan Singh defendant No.2, was not accompanying
us. I met defendant No.2 in the last week of April, 2017
in the house of Gurucharan Singh, which is located at
Rajgarh Road, Solan. After locating the property the
revenue record pertaining to that property was obtained
through the revenue agency by Gurucharan Singh. I also
personally checked the Jamabandi of the land in dispute. I
do not remember that the owner reflected in the revenue
record was Shri Desh Raj. I relied upon the representation
of Gurucharan Singh that the property in dispute belongs Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 to defendant No.1. Self stated that Shri Lok Raj
(Defendant No.1) also informed to me that the said land
belongs to him. Before the execution of the agreement I
met Lok Raj. I am not aware about the occupation of Shri
Lok Raj. It is incorrect that I never met Defendant No.1
(Lok Raj). Except Jamabandi I did not see any other
document qua the ownership of the land. I am also not
aware about the occupation of defendant No.2 (Rajesh
Kumar). I did not know Bhushan Kumar before the
execution of the agreement. Before the execution of the
agreement to sell, defendant No.2, shown me the original
General Power of Attorney. Defendant No.2, showed me
original General Power of Attorney two-three days prior
to the execution of the agreement. In between three-four
days prior to the execution of the agreement I did not try
to meet defendant No.1. Shri Lok Raj was about 45 years
when I met him. I and Gurucharan Singh made
negotiation with defendant No.2 qua the land in dispute.
Gurucharan Singh disclosed me that defendants No.1 and
2 are related to each other as brother-in-law. I never
personally asked about the relationship between them.
After the payment of an amount of Rs. 35,00,000/- I
informed defendant No.2, that the company will pay the
other amount to defendant No.1 only. Gurucharan Singh
also informed defendant No.2, about this fact but
defendant No.2 and Bhushan Kumar told me that we will
take an affidavit from defendant No.1, qua the payment to Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 be made to defendant No.2. I do not remember that
whether I procured original affidavit of defendant No.1
from him. I am also not aware about the occupation of
Shri Bhushan Kumar. Bhushan Kumar was brought on
the day of the execution of the agreement by Gurucharan
Singh. Self stated that Bhushan Kumar might be known
to defendant No.2. Further payment was paid by the
plaintiff-company to defendant No.2 only after taking of
the affidavit of defendant No.1. We waited for about
seven-eight months for taking the documents from the
defendants. I tried to meet defendant No.1 after seven-
eight months, when we came to know about the
cancellation of General Power of Attorney (GPA) by
defendant No.1. It is incorrect that I never met Lok Raj
nor he disclosed to me that he has cancelled the GPA in
favour of defendant No.2. At the time of writing a letter
to Tehsildar (Urban) Kasauli, District Solan, (Mark `J') I
was aware about the cancellation of GPA. I never asked in
writing to defendant No.1 about the documents required
for the necessary permissions. Self stated that I only
asked defendant No.2 for the same. I do not remember
whether in the legal notice Ex. PW-3/G, we demanded the
documents required for the permission. After reply to the
notice by defendant No.2, (Mark `K'), I never try to
contact defendant No.1 and demanded the requisite
documents. I never tried to ascertain whether the
defendant No.1 had received any payment after the Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 execution of the agreement qua part of the sale
consideration. I am not aware that defendant No.2, had
fraudulently obtained the GPA as well as affidavit from
defendant No.1. It is incorrect that defendant No.1, never
intended to sell the land in dispute. It is incorrect that
defendant No.1 never agreed to execute the agreement to
sell of the said property and did not authorize defendant
No.2. Smt. Reena who is sister of defendant No.1, is not
known to me. I am not aware about any civil suit inter-se
Reena, defendant No.1 and their father Desh Raj. I am not
aware, the Lok Adalat has passed an award that
defendant No.1 is not the owner of the suit property.
 xxx xxx xxx Shri Vinod Chauhan, Advocate
 for defendant No.2. After the finalization of the land I along with
Gurucharan Singh met Lok Raj (defendant No.1) on the
property in dispute. The affidavit of defendant No.1 (Mark
`B') was provided by defendant No.2 through Gurucharan
Singh. I have seen signature of Lok Raj on that affidavit.
It is incorrect that I am deposing false. R.O. & A.C.
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

10th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 10.12.2024
 Present: Shri Rahul Mahajan, Advocate along with
 plaintiff. Shri Bupender Gupta, Senior Advocate with
 Shri Janesh Gupta, Advocate for defendant
 No.1. Shri Vinod Chauhan, Advocate, for
 defendant No.2. Statements of Shri Sandeep Singh, is
 recorded as PW-3. PF be filed within fifteen days. Let
 PWs mentioned at Sl. Nos. 2 and 3, be
 summoned for 22.03.2025. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8235 of 2019 in RFA No. 405 of 2014
 10.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Submissions made by the learned counsel
 for the parties qua their rival claims heard. As per the
 directions of the Hon'ble Court, report has been
 prepared. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court on the date already fixed. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8236 of 2019 in RFA No. 65 of 2015
 10.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Submissions made by the learned counsel
 for the parties qua their rival claims heard. As per the
 directions of the Hon'ble Court, report has been
 prepared. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court on the date already fixed. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP No. 8234 of 2019 in RFA No. 406 of 2014
 10.12.2024
 Present: Shri Vivek Negi, Advocate, for the
 appellants/applicants. Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for non-applicants/respondents. Submissions made by the learned counsel
 for the parties qua their rival claims heard. As per the
 directions of the Hon'ble Court, report has been
 prepared. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court on the date already fixed. (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 48 of 2016 11.12.2024 Present:- 12.12.2024 Present:- As per office report, the witnesses mentioned at
 Sl. Nos. 1 and 3, are required to be produced on self
 responsibility and the summons issued to the witness
 mentioned at Sl. No.4, has not been received back either served
 or un-served. None of the witnesses are present today. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that due to fracture in the foot of the original counsel Shri
 Naveen Kumar Bhalla, he is not in a position to move.
 Therefore, he seeks adjournment for today and the same has
 not been opposed by the learned opposing vice counsel. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today. Let the
PWs mentioned at Sl. No. 1 and 3, be produced on self responsibility
on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 16th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1169 of 2022 in RSA No. 31 of 2020
17.12.2024 Present:- 18.12.2024
 Present: Shri Hamender Singh
 Chandel, Advocate for the plaintiff. Shri Pavinder Thakur, Advocate, for
 defendant No.1. Defendant No.2 already ex-parte. Shri Deepak Talwar, authorized representative
 of plaintiff-company is present. However, learned counsel
 for the plaintiff submits that certain documents are required
 to be verified by the authorized representative, who is
 present in the Court, which are lying in the company and
 only after going through these documents the witness, who
 is present today will be able to adduce his evidence. On
 this ground learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks
 adjournment, which is not opposed by the learned counsel
 for defendant No.1. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today.
 Let the witnesses mentioned in the list of witnesses be
 produced on self responsibility for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th December, 2024
 (Pritam)
 CMP(M) No. 1244 of 2024 in RSA No. 513 of 2016

 19.12.2024
 Present: Shri Het Ram, Advocate, vice Shri Mukul
 Sood, Advocate, for the applicant. G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate, with Shri Sumit
 Sharma, Advocate, for the respondents. As per the office report, witness mentioned at
 Sl. No. 4 and 5 in the list of witnesses filed by the
 respondents are duly served. Shri Desh Raj, is present
 today, however, learned counsel for the respondents submits
 that he wants to examine Shri Panna Lal, who is one of the
 respondent in the present application at the first instance, to
 which the learned opposing has no objection. Learned
 Senior counsel further submits that he will pay the expenses
 to the witnesses for today's appearance. Moreover, learned
 senior counsel further submits that the other witness (Shri
 Panna Lal), is ill due to which he could not come to the
 court today for adduce his evidence. Accordingly, the witness present today is
 discharged. Let the fresh summons be issued for the
 service of witness mentioned at Sl. No. 4 in the list of
 witnesses, Shri Panna Lal witness mentioned at Sl. No.5, be
 produced on self responsibility, for the date to be fixed by
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 34 of 2016 20.12.2024
 Present: Shri Suneet Verma, Advocate, vice Shri
 Umesh Kanwar, Advocate, for the plaintiff.
 None for the defendants. As per the office report, the list of witnesses
 has not been received. Learned vice counsel submits that
 the witnesses are also not present today. He further submits
 that he will file the list of witnesses within fifteen days and
 the witnesses be produced on self responsibility by the
 plaintiff. Let the list of witnesses be filed within fifteen
 days and the plaintiff witnesses be produced on self
 responsibility on the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
20th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 DW-4: Statement of Sh. Kulvinder Singh, aged
 about 42 years, Incharge Suit Claim Hub,
 Block No.7, 3rd Floor, SDA Complex,
 Kasumpti, Shimla-9. On Oath
 30.12.2024

 I am working as Incharge Suit Claim Hub,

 NIAC, Ltd., from October, 2023. I tender in evidence

 General Regulations qua consequential loss (fire)

 insurance, which is Ex. DW-4/A (27 leaves). xxxxx By Shri Suraj Verma, Advocate,
 vice Shri Ajay Vaidya, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Opportunity given. Nil. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 30th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 DW-4: Statement of Ms. Kamakshi Tarlokta,
 Advocate, for the defendants. Without Oath
 30.12.2024

 I close the evidence on behalf of the

 defendants since the additional witness has also been

 examined. R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 30th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 27 of 2016 30.12.2024
 Present: Shri Suraj Verma, Advocate, vice Shri Ajay
 Vaidya, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri B.M. Chauhan, Senior Advocate with Ms.
 Kamakshi Tarlokta, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Statement of Shri Kulvinder Singh, is recorded
 as DW-4. Learned counsel for the defendants, vide separate
 statement, has closed the evidence on behalf of the
 defendants. Evidence on behalf of the parties is complete.
 Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble Court for
 appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
30th December, 2024
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 19 of 2016 31.12.2024 Present:- Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
 2nd January, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 139 of 2022 03.01.2025 Present:- After the finalization of my quotation by the
 defendants they called me for the construction of the
 building and I and defendant No.1 through Richa Patel
 Partner entered into an agreement dated 16.11.2017.
 They copy of the agreement is Ex. PW-1/A (admitted
 by defendants on 24.03.2013 during admission and
 denial of the documents). I identify my signature in
 red circle `A' in Ex. PW-1/A. As per the agreement
 the rate for the construction of the building was settled
 @ Rs. 950/- per sq. ft. This rate excludes the payment
 of the GST and TDS. The mode of the payment was
 settled as per Clause 13 of the agreement. The
 defendants had paid an amount of Rs.1000000/- as
 advance payment after the execution of the agreement Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 Ex. PW-1/A. I had started to raise the construction as
per the time limit fixed in the agreement i.e. one year.
However, three months i.e. January, February and
March had been excluded from the total term of one
year due to heavy snow fall in the area of construction.
After the advance payment of Rs.1000000/- the
defendants have paid an amount of Rs. 700000/-
towards the purchasing of the constructions material
of the building. However, the defendants paid an
amount of Rs. 800000/- directly to the supplier of the
construction material namely Chander Bhaga Trading
Company Manali. The first phase of the construction
of the building was completed by me in month of
October, 2018. Thereafter, I raised the bill for an
amount of Rs.59,96,789.50 to the defendants for its
payment. The original bills is Ex. PW-1/B, (five
leaves), which is duly duly signed by me in red circle
`A'. I had raised the bill for the construction of 10699
sq. ft. @ 950 per sq. ft to site Incharge, Shri R.K.
Singh, of the defendants. Due to non payment of the
bill raised by me the construction work was stopped as
I could not pay the wages and material charges to the
concerned persons. The defendants confiscated my
tools and equipments and asked me to withdraw from
the site. I consistently asked for the payment but no Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 response was given by the defendants. Thereafter I
issued a Legal Notice Ex. PW-1/C, through my
Advocate Shri Lekh Raj. The postal receipts of the
same are Ex. PW-1/D-1 to Ex. PW-1/D-5. Thereafter,
I received a reply of my Legal Notice from the
Advocate of the defendants-company, which is Ex.
PW-1/E, (admitted by the defendants during
admission and denial). Inspite of my legal notice no
payment was released by the defendants. The
Incharge of the defendants-company remained on the
site throughout during the construction work and use
to supervise the work. The Incharge of the
defendants-company never raised any objection qua
the work being done by me on the site. The partners
of the company regularly use to visit the construction
site and they have also not raised any objection qua
construction. Inspite of my raising the construction as
per the requirement of the defendants and agreement,
the defendants have withheld an amount of
Rs.59,96,789/- without any basis. Therefore, I am
entitled to the said amount alongwith interest,
damages and compensation. xxxxx Shri Sunil Mohan Goel, Sr.
 Advocate with Shri Raman Jamalta,
 Advocate, for the defendants-company. It is correct that I have signed the plaint
after going through the same. It is correct that I have
mentioned in my plaint that I have received an amount
of Rs.25,00,000/- from the defendants-company. It is
correct that as per the agreement the construction work
was to be started from 16.11.2017 and the work was to
be completed till 11.05.2019. It is correct that as per
the agreement I was suppose to give programme chart
and work schedule to the defendants time to time. I
use to supply the programme chart and work schedule
to the Incharge of the defendants company daily who
use to send the same to the defendants. It is correct
that I have not annexed any programme chart and
work schedule in the present case. It is correct that I
have not mentioned the amount of the construction
work being raised by me on the site. Self stated that I
have mentioned the specification in my bills Ex. PW-
1/B. I have not raised any running bills to the
defendants. It is correct that I have raised only one
RCC Slab on the site. Self stated that I have raised the
bill of that construction only. I have given the bill Ex.
PW-1/B, to the site Incharge of the defendants. It is
correct that I have not deducted an amount of
Rs.25,00,000/- which was being received by me from
the defendants. It is incorrect that I have also send Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 the second bill on 01.11.2018, through whatsapp to
the defendants. It is incorrect that I have sent one bill
dated 25.04.2019, through whatsapp to the defendants.
It is incorrect that I was called by the representatives
of the defendants-company on 25.04.2019, and they
have requested for speeding up of the construction
work. I am un-registered civil construction. It is
correct that Manali is tourist spot and tourist used to
visit this place throughout the year. It is correct that
adjacent to the construction site there are many Hotels.
I am not aware that during tourist season the rent of
one room of the Hotel at Manali is about Rs.10,000/-
per day. It is incorrect that I have constructed only
4800 sq. fts. only. It is incorrect that I am not holding
GSTIN. It is correct that I have not done any brick or
plaster work on the site. I was raising the construction
as per the drawing provided by the defendants. As per
the site plan six rooms were to be constructed by the
defendants in the building. The size of the rooms
were different. It is incorrect that I had not raised the
construction as per the schedule provided in the
agreement. I did not receive any notice from the
defendants regarding cancellation of the agreement. I
am not aware that on 17.05.2019, the defendants have
rescinded the agreement. It is incorrect that I have not Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 raise the demand of balance payment before issuing
the Legal Notice. Self stated that I have orally asked
the site Incharge qua the payment of the balance
amount. It is incorrect that I did not provide any work
programme and bill to the site Incharge. It is incorrect
that I have only carried out the construction for the
total amount of Rs.22,80,000/-. It is incorrect that due
to the delay in the construction work the defendant
had to suffer monetarily as well as mentally. It is
incorrect that while raising bills I have also included
the bricks and plastering work. It is incorrect that the
defendants have paid an excess amount of
Rs.2,20,000/- to me. It is incorrect that while raising
the bills I included three dimensions of the beam,
however, only surface area was required to be
measured. I do not know if the building was being
raised timely then the defendants might earn Rs.30
lacs per months. It is incorrect that nothing is due
from the defendants and I am deposing false.
R.O & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

6th January, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 95 of 2020 06.01.2025 Present:- Since there is no permission on record from
 the Tribunal to proceed further in the present Civil Suit,
 therefore, in view of the bar contained Section 279 of the Civil Suit No. 35 of 2014 Companies Act, 2013 , it would be in the interest of
 justice that, at this stage, the statement of Managing
 Director of the counter-claimant, namely Yoginder
 Nagpal, be not recorded, who is present in the Court as
 the further proceedings may vitiate due to the non-
 availability of the leave of the Tribunal. Therefore, let the matter be listed in the
 Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
9th January, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No.80 of 2010 24.02.2025
Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior Advocate, with Ms. Sugandh
 Verma, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri Praveen Chauhan, Advocate, vice Shri Y.P. Sood,
 Advocate, for defendants No. 1 and 2. Shri Rajinder Thakur, Advocate, for defendant No.3. As per the office report, the defendants evidence was

required to be produced on self responsibility. Learned vice counsel

for defendants No. 1 and 2 and learned counsel for defendant No.3

submit that they will produce their witnesses on self responsibility on

the next date of hearing. Let the witnesses on behalf of defendants be produced on

self responsibility on 18.03.2025. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24.02.2025
(Pritam) OMP(M) No. 42 of 2016 25.02.2025
Present: Ms. Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate, for the the applicants. Shri Het Ram, Advocate, vice Shri Sanjeev Sood,
 Advocate, for the non-applicants No. 1 to 10. None for non-applicants No. 11 and 12. As per the office report, notice under Order XVI Rule 12

CPC , issued to witness namely Alam Chand, has not been received

back. However, as per office report summons issued to the said witness

has been received back after due service. In-spite of the service, this

witness has not come to the Court for adducing his evidence. Therefore, let the matter be list in the Hon'ble Court for

appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
25.02.2025
(Pritam) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 DW-2: Statement of Sh. Sahil Kapoor Presently
 posted as Officer, Canra Bank Ner Branch,
 VPO Balh, District Mandi, H.P
 On Oath
 27.02.2025

 State that I have brought the requisition
 record pertaining to OCC account number
 5067261000023, in the name of Bharat Tyre under the
 propitiatory ship of Sh. Bharat Kumar. As per our
 record the aforesaid account had been closed on
 27.12.2019. The letter pertaining to the deletion of
 bank lien mark D-1, which is now Ex.DW/A
 (objected to on the mode of proof) was issued by our
 Branch. xxxxxxxxx by Sh. George, learned counsel for the
 plaintiff. xxxxxxxx. I am posted as Officer in the Ner Branch
 from June,2024. I have not worked with the signatory
 of the letter Ex. DW2/A nor I am conversant with his
 signature. I have not brought the office copy of the
 letter Ex. DW2/A. I cannot say that the letter Ex.
 DW2/A was issued on 31.12.20219 or 19.08.2022. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27.02.2025
 (g.m) Civil Suit No. 86 of 2020 DW-3: Statement of Sh. Guljeet Singh Rana
 Presently posted as Branch Manager, Indian
 Overseas Bank Ner Branch, VPO Balh,
 District Mandi, H.P
 On Oath
 27.02.2025
 State that I have brought the requisition record.
 The letter Mark D is now Ex. DW3/A was issued by our
 Branch and the same has been signed by the then Branch
 Manager Sh.Parkash Chand. I am conversant with his
 signature. I have worked with him since for about two
 years. xxxxxxxxx by Sh. George, learned counsel for the
 plaintiff. xxxxxxxx. It is correct that the according to letter
 Ex.DW3/A this account pertains to the cash credit limit in
 the name of Ashoka constructions. It is correct that there
 is one house loan in the name of Sh. Ashok Kumar
 defendant No.1 in out bank. Self stated that the said house
 loan account was closed in our Bank. As per our record
 the said house loan was closed on 08.10.2020. I am not
 aware that whether the bank has issued any letter to
 defendant No.1 regarding fore feature of the mortgaged
 property. It is correct that there is no date on Ex.DW3/A
 showing its date of issuance. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27.02.2025
(g.m) C.S No. 86 of 2020 27.02.2025
Present: Sh. George, Advocate, for the the plaintiff. Shri T.S.Chauhan, Senior Advocate with Sh. Surya
 Chauhan, Adovcate for the defendants. As per the office report, Dws mentioned at serial No. 1 to

3 in the list of witnesses are duly served. Sh. Sahil Kapoor and Sh. Gujeet Singh Rana are present and their statements are recorded as

DW-2 and DW-3 respetively. The witness mentioned at serial No. in

the list of witness is not present despite due service. Accordingly, let

the notice under Order 16 Ruye 12 CPC along with fresh summons be

sent to him. Let the Dws mentioned at serial No. 4,5 and 6 be also

summoned for the day to be fixed by Additional Registrar Judicial. Fresh P.F be filed within 15 days. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
27.02.2025
(g.m)
 CMP(M) No. 690 of 2024 in RSA No. 164 of 2019
28.02.2025
Present: Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate, vice Shri B.C. Verma,
 Advocate, for the applicant-appellant. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for the
 non-applicants/respondents. As per the office report, the witnesses mention at Sl. Nos. 1 and 2 of the list of witnesses are required to be produced on self

responsibility by the applicant. However, learned counsel for the non- applicants submits that due to untoward incident in his house he could

not come to the Court for adducing his evidence today. Learned counsel

further submits that Shri Prakesh Chand (non-applicant/ respondent

No.1) as well as witness mentioned at Sl. No.2, in the list of witness

will be produced on self responsibility on the next date of hearing. Let the matter be listed before the Additional Registrar

(Judicial) for fixing the next date of hearing for Rws. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
28.02.2025
(Pritam) Civil Suit No. 118 of 2019 01.03.2025
 Present: Mr. Suresh Saini, Advocate, vice Shri Vikas
 Chauhan, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Mr. Sumit Sood, Advocate, for the defendants. Learned vice counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 the witnesses could not come to the Court due to bad
 weather for adducing their evidence today. However,
 learned vice counsel further submits that these witnesses
 will be produced on the next date of hearing on self
 responsibility. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for today. Let
 the remaining witnesses mentioned in the list of
 witnesses be produced by the plaintiff on the next date of
 hearing, to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
1st March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 68 of 2020 03.03.2025
 Present: Mr.Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Defendants already ex-party. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 neither his client is picking up his phone nor he has
 responded to the register letter send to him. Learned
 counsel has placed on record the photocopy of the
 registered letter written to him, which is taken on record. Further, learned counsel submits that the matter be
 listed before the Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders.
 Accordingly, let the matter be listed in the Hon'ble Court
 for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
3rd March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 28 of 2023 04.03.2025
 Present: Mr. Manish Kumar, Proxy counsel for the
 Plaintiff. Mr. Trigun Singh Negi, Proxy counsel for the
 Defendant. The witness is not present today. Learned proxy
 counsel submits that the witness will be produced on the
 next date of hearing on self responsibility. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date of plaintiff's
 evidence. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
4th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 20 of 2016 06.03.2025
Present: - Shri Rakesh Thakur, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. None for the defendants. As per the office report, summons issued to
the PW-6 has been received back with the report that the details
of the present case cannot be provided by the ITO Parwanoo
and the case pertains to ITO Ward No.1, Shimla. Accordingly,
the ITO Parwanoo has refused to take the summons. Further,
the PW at Sl. No. 8 is reported to be duly served. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to
ill health, PW mentioned at Sl. No. 8 in the list of witnesses
could not come to the Court for adducing his evidence. He
seeks adjournment on his behalf. In view of the report submitted by the process
serving agency, learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that he
will furnish the correct detail of the concerned witness within a
week. Accordingly, let the correct details pertaining to
witness mentioned at Sl. No. 6, be furnished and fresh
summons be issued for the service of witnesses at Sl. No. 6 and
8 within a week. Fresh process fee be also filed within a week.
Let the matter be listed before the Additional Registrar
(Judicial) for fixing the next date for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
6th March, 2025
 (Pritam) COMS No. 3 of 2023 07.03.2025
Present: - Shri Praveen Chauhan, Advocate, for the
 plaintiff. Shri Ajay Kumar, Advocate, for the
 defendants. Shri Pushkar Sharma, Junior Engineer (Civil),
in the District Office, FCI, Mandi and Shri Shankar Suman
Chandan, AGM (Civil) FCI, Regional Office, Shimla, are
present. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that due to
the fracture in the leg of original counsel, she could not come to
the Court. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks adjournment
on behalf of the original counsel, which is not opposed by the
learned counsel for the defendants. Accordingly, the witnesses, who are present today
are discharged for today. The diet money for today expenses
has been paid in cash by the learned counsel for the plaintiff to
these witnesses. Let fresh process fee be filed within two weeks,
thereafter, the process be issued for the service of PWs
mentioned at Sl. No. 2 and 3 in the list of witnesses for the date
to be fixed by the Additional Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
7th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Cr. MP(M) No. 2502 of 2023 10.03.2025
Present: - Shri P.K Nadda, Additional Advocate
 General with Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General, for the applicant. Shri Atharv Sharma, Advocate, for the
 respondent. As per office report, steps for AWs have not
been taken by the applicant. Two opportunities have already
been granted to the applicant. Accordingly, let the matter be listed before the
Hon'ble Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
10th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 96 of 2010 11.03.2025: Present: Shri Trigun Singh Negi, Advocate
 vice Ms. Kusum Chaudhary, Advocate,
 for the plaintiff. Defendants already ex-parte. As per the office report, steps for
 evidence of plaintiffs evidence have not been taken.
 However, vide order dated 10.09.2024 of the
 undersigned fresh summons were required to be issued
 on old PF as the summons issued to the plaintiffs
 evidence were not received back either served or un-
 served. Let fresh summons be issued in
 compliance of the order dated 10.09.2024 to the PWs
 returnable for the date to be fixed by the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
11th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 DW-1: Statement of Sh. Shiv Kumar aged about 53
 years S/o Shri Ram Lok Garg, Village
 Ambwala & P.O. Panjehara, Tehsil Nalagarh,
 District Solan, H.P.
 On Oath
 12.03.2025
 Before the cross examination of the witness it is
 pertinent to mention that vide order dated 14.05.2024 in
 OMP No. 107 of 2024, the official from the office of JMIC
 1st Class, Sloan and Shri Ravinder Kumar, (PW-7), were
 directed to produce the records for the cross examination of
 this witness. Accordingly, Ms. Beena Thakur, Criminal
 Ahlmad office of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate
 is present with the record. However, the other witness
 namely Ravinder Kumar is not present with the record.
 Therefore, learned senior counsel submits that the cross
 examination to the effect the record brought by the
 Criminal Ahlmad be effected, which is not opposed by the
 learned opposing counsel. Cross examination of the witness is resumed.
 xxx xxx xxx Shri G.D.Verma Senior
 Advocate assisted by Shri Sumit Sharma,
 Advocate. It is correct that earlier my statement was
 recorded in the Court on 10.11.2023. It is correct that to
 some extant my cross examination was also conducted on
 that day. It is correct that I have admitted in the cross
 examination on 10.11.2023, that during the negotiations I Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 have disclosed to the plaintiffs that I have land in Village
Teedon and Dahar and the price of the land @ Rs.
2,80,000/- per bighas. It is correct that during my cross
examination I have denied that negotiations pertaining to
the sale and purchase of the land were started between us
prior to 07.06.2007. I have deposited the cheques
amounting to Rs.25,00,000/- and Rs. 35,00,000/- in my
account maintained in Punjab National Bank, Mall Road
Solan. I do not remember my bank account number today.
It is incorrect that I have received an amount of
Rs.2,50,000/- in cash, which I have credited in the same
Bank Account. I am matriculate and I have conducted
diploma in Civil and Architect Assistant (three years). I am
doing the business of property dealing from the year 2000. It is correct that my short name is S.K. Garg and my father
short name Shri R.L. Garg. I use to do my signatures in
English. Self stated that while signing I use to write my full
name. It is correct that one criminal case titled as State
versus Shiv Kumar Criminal Case No. 12/2/2010
(Registration No. 481/2013) is pending adjudication in the
Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Solan. That
case is at the stage of arguments. It is correct that in that
case 22 witnesses namely Shri Jagmohan S/o Shri Gurdayal
Singh, Shri Anil Sharma S/o Shri Banarsi Dass, Harneet
Singh S/o Shri Jagmohan Singh, Ravinder Kumar S/o Late
Shri Chatter Singh, Shri Lakhwinder Singh S/o Sardar
Kehar Singh, Shri Jai Parkash S/o Late Shri Babu Lal, Shri Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 S.R. Raghuvanshi S/o Late Shri Tulsi Ram, Shri Jaspal
Singh S/o Shri Amar Singh, Shri Karam Dass Bhatti S/o
Shri Bhagat Ram, Shri Lajja Ram S/o Late Shri Atma Ram,
Shri Raghuvir Singh S/o Shri Karam Singh, Shri Rupinder
Kumar, Incharge Crime CID Unit Nahan, Shri Rakesh
Kumar Premi S/o Govind Ram, Shri Raj Kumar S/o Shri
Bakshi Ram, Shri Devender Kumar Gupta S/o Shri Ved
Parkash Gupta, Shri Kehar Singh S/o Shri Gurdeep Singh,
Smt. Saraswati Kaur w/o Late Shri Kirpal Singh, ASI
Yadav Chand, ASI Sunil Kumar, Shri Shiv Kumar Sharma,
Retired Chief Manager, SBI, Shimla, Retired Inspector
SHO Yodha Ram, Shri Prabal Singh S/o Shri S.L. Chauhan
and Dr. Minakshi Mahajan, Deputy Director RFSL
Dharamshala, were examined. The witness is confronted
with the original receipt (Exhibited as PW-1/B) in the case
file of Additional Chief Judicial, Solan) of the Ex. PW-8/
but he denied his signatures on the receipt. It is incorrect
that vide receipt Ex. PW-8/B, I have received an amount of
Rs.2,50,000/- in cash. It is incorrect that I have received
the said amount in the presence of Shri Devinder Kumar
Gupta, who was examined as PW-8 in the present case. It
is incorrect that the said receipt (Ex. PW-8/B), was
prepared on my asking. Shri Devinder Gupta was known
to me. Self stated that he met me only one month prior to
the execution of the agreement dated 19.07.2007. It is
incorrect that agreement to sale Ex. PW-8/A, (original
agreement exhibited as PW-1/A in the Court of ACJM, Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 Solan) bears my signature. It is correct that in June, 2007 I
use to reside at Chauhan Niwas Sanjauli, Shimla-6. It is
incorrect that on 04.06.2007, I have purchased the Stamp
Papers for execution of the agreement to sell from Stamp
Vendor Shri Ravinder Kumar, Kandaghat, Solan. It is
incorrect that agreement dated 19.07.2007 Ex. PW-8/A,
was executed between myself and plaintiffs at Solan. Self
stated that this is not the original agreement which was
executed by me with the plaintiffs. It is incorrect that I
have signed all the papers of the agreement to sell and the
same bears my signatures at Point Q-1 to Q-4 in the
agreement Ex. PW-1/A placed in the file of Additional
Chief Judicial Magistrate and Ex. PW-8 in the present case
file. The other agreement which was executed by me with
the plaintiffs pertains to the suit land. In that agreement
Devinder Kumar Gupta and Vijay Kumar were witnesses.
That agreement was got drafted by the plaintiffs. I have
appended my signatures on that agreement in the shop of
the plaintiffs. That agreement was executed on 19.07.2007.
In that agreement the rate of the land was @ Rs.2,80,000/-
per bigha and I will have to sell approximately 335 bighas
to the plaintiffs in total out of which the Registry of the 50
bighas of the land was to be done by the plaintiffs within 30
days from the date of the agreement. I do not have any
personal grudge with Devinder Kumar Gupta, witness to
the agreement. Shri Devinder Kumar Gupta, is also not
inimical to me. Shri Ravinder Kumar Stamp Vendor is Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 also not inimical to me. It is correct that my permanent
address is of village Ambowala, P.O. Panjera, Tehsil
Nalagarh, District Solan. It is correct that in the year 2008,
my correspondence address was Chauhan Niwas, Sanjauli,
Shimla-6. I do not know whether notice Ex. PW-4/A, was
served upon me by the plaintiffs through their Advocate
Shri Shashi Pandit. Self stated that I never received that
notice. I have executed the agreement to sell with the five
different land owners of the villages i.e. Teedon and Dahar.
The names of that land owners are Shri Jaspal Singh, Smt.
Saraswati, Shri Kehar Singh and Shri Lakhwinder. There is
one more land owner with whom I have entered agreement
to sell. I have entered into the agreement for the sale of
their lands @ Rs.1,25,000/- per bigha. Self stated that the
road was to be constructed by the sellers of that land. I
have executed three agreements with that land owners. It is
correct that I am in possession of all the three agreements as
of date. Those three agreements were executed before
19.07.2007. The Sale Deeds were not executed pertaining
to those agreements till date. I have disclosed and got
written in my written statement that Ex. PW-8/A is not the
original agreement between me and plaintiffs. It is
incorrect that I am deposing false. The original record brought by witness Ms.
Beena Thakur, Criminal Ahlmad, office of the Additional
Chief Judicial Magistrate, Solan is returned. The cross examination of this witness is further
deferred due to the known availability of the record which
was to be produced by Shri Ravinder Kumar, Stamp
Vendor, who was duly served for today. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

12th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 65 of 2011 12.03.2025 Present: Shri G.D. Verma, Senior Advocate
 with Shri Sumit Sharma, Advocate for
 the plaintiffs. Shri B.R. Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant. As per the office report, the official
 namely Ms. Beena Thakur, Criminal Ahlmad, from the
 office of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate is
 present with the original record. The cross
 examination to the effect of the record brought by her
 is complete. However, despite due service Shri
 Ravinder Kumar, is not present with the original
 record for the cross examination of the defendant. The
 original record brought by Ms. Beena Thakur,
 Criminal Ahlmad, office of the Additional Chief
 Judicial Magistrate, Solan, H.P., is returned to her. Let the notice under Order XVI Rule 12
 CPC be issued against Shri Ravinder Kumar, Stamp
 Vendor, Kandaghat, District Solan, H.P. and fresh
 summons be issued to Ravinder Kumar, on filing of
 the fresh PF within seven days. Thereafter, the matter be listed before the
 Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the next date
 for cross examination of the defendant. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
12th March, 2025
 (Pritam)
 Civil Suit No. 4062 of 2013 a/w Counter Claim No. 7 of 2015

17.03.2025 Present: Shri Sudhir Thakur, Senior Advocate
 with Shri Karun Negi, Advocate, for
 the plaintiffs. Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior Advocate
 and Shri Nareshwar Singh Chandel
 along with Shri Dinesh Thakur and Shri
 Harshit Sharma, Advocate, for the
 defendant/counter claimant. As per office report, DW Shri K.K.
 Kashyap (defendant), Shri Ranjit (DW-2) and Ms.
 Shraddha Singh, Assistant Manager, Bank of Baroda,
 Manimajra (DW-5), as mentioned in the list of
 witnesses, are duly served and present. Learned senior counsel for the parties
 submits that earlier six suits were filed in the Hon'ble
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh and the same were
 taken up together for the simultaneous trials of all the
 suits. It is further submitted that the evidence in those
 suits were recorded jointly as there were common sets
 of witnesses. But due to the change in the pecuniary
 jurisdiction, except Civil Suit No. 4062 of 2013 along
 with Counter Claim No. 7 of 2015, all the Civil Suits
 were transferred to the District Courts Solan (Kasauli). It is further submitted by the learned
 senior counsel for the plaintiffs that the record
 pertaining to the suit has also been transferred to the
 District Court Solan (Kasauli) and in the absence of
 that record, the cross examination of the defendants
 witnesses is not possible as the record annexed with
 Civil Suit No. 4062 of 2013 a/w Counter Claim No. 7 of 2015

 those civil suits is required to confront the defendant in
 the present suit. Learned senior counsel for the defendant
 further submits that before the examination of the
 defendant, they want to examine and prove on record,
 the record produced by the other witnesses. Learned
 senior counsel further submits that he will move an
 appropriate application under Order XVIII Rule 3A
 CPC for the requisite permission from the Hon'ble
 Court for examining the defendant subsequent to the
 other defendant witnesses. Accordingly, in view of the non-availability of
 the record, the cross examination of the witnesses
 present today is not possible and they are discharged
 for today. The today's expenses for the witnesses has
 been paid by the defendant in cash. Let the case be listed before the Hon'ble Court
 after filing of the appropriate application by the
 defendant. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
17th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Ex. Pet. No. 10 of 2019 RW-3: Statement of Sh. Begh Ram, S/o Shri Dina
 Ram aged 59 R/o Village Palog, P.O.
 Durgapur, Tehsil Sunni, District Shimal, H.P.,
 Horticulture Development Officer (Retd.) from
 the office of Deputy Director, Horticulture,
 Shimla. On Oath
 18.03.2025
 I remained posted as Horticulture Development
 Officer (HDO), in the office of Deputy Director, Shimla,
 Development Block Narkanda, from the years 2008 to
 2014. I have prepared the report on the basis of Harbans
 Singh formula, Ex. RW-3/A, which bears my signature in
 red circle `A'. At the time of preparation of report a joint
 inspection was conducted on the site. At that time officials
 from the Revenue Department and Forest Department were
 present. The site/land was got identified by the Revenue
 department. xxx xxx xxx Shri Hamender Chandel,
 Advocate for the petitioners. At the time of the joint inspection, the
 petitioners were not present on the site. I am not aware
 whether the revenue department and forest department had
 given prior intimation to the petitioner regarding the
 inspection of the site. It is correct that in the description of
 the apple plants only 208 apple plants has been mentioned,
 however, in the footnote total number of apple plaints has
 been mentioned 240. Before going to the inspection, no Ex. Pet. No. 10 of 2019 previous record pertaining to the case was shown to me by
the department. I am not aware that the assessment of the
plaints was to be conducted on the basis of the documents
already placed in the Civil Suit. It is correct that I have not
mentioned in my report regarding the Harbans Singh
Formula on the basis of which, the calculation was made in
this report. It is correct that as per Harbans Singh formula
the stages of the up bringing of the plant its diminishing
yield as well as the expenses for the up bringing of the plant
and prince index of the fruits is required to be taken into
consideration. The maximum age of the apple plant is
about 45 years. It is correct that as per my calculation in
the report the yield of the apple tree is Rs.52 per year. It is
incorrect that I have not considered all the factors which
have been mentioned in Harbans Singh formula while
making the calculations in my report, Ex. RW-3/A. I had
not noticed any permanent structure on the land which was
identified by the revenue department. It is incorrect that I
never visited the site/land and prepared the report in my
office on the asking of forest department. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Ex. Pet. No. 10 of 2019 18.03.2025 Present: Shri Hamender Singh Chandel,
 Advocate, for the petitioners. Shri P.K. Nadda, Additional Advocate
 General with Ms. Sunaina, Deputy
 Advocate General for the respondent-
 State. Statement of Shri Beg Ram is recorded as
 RW-3. Vide seperate statement leanred Additional
 Advocate General closedses are being used by the
 FCI only for the official purposes. The defendants
 have made temporary partition of the aluminum in
 the tenanted premises for the officials and officers of
 the department. The temporary partitions have been
 made through screws in the walls. These temporary
 structure are easily removable without causing any
 damage to the permanent structure. The defendants
 had not stacked any junk in any part of the tenanted
 premises. The department has fixed the life of the
 furniture of the office and if the same is damaged
 due to certain reason the evidence on behalf of the
 respondents. ses are being used by the FCI only for
 the official purposes. The defendants have made
 temporary partition of the aluminum in the tenanted
 premises for the officials and officers of the
 department. The temporary partitions have been
 made through screws in the walls. These temporary
 structure are easily removable without causing any
 damage to the permanentses are being used by the
 FCI only for the official purposes. The defendants
 have made temporary partition of the aluminum in
 the tenanted premises for the officials and officers of
 the department. The temporary partitions have been
 made through screws in the walls. These temporary
 structure are easily removable without causing any
 damage to the permanent structure. The defendants
 had not stacked any junk in any part of the tenanted
 premises. The department has fixed the life of the
 furniture of the office and if the same is damaged
 due to certain reason structure. The defendants had
 not stacked any junk in any part of the tenanted
 premises. The department has fixed the life of the
 furniture of the office and if the same is damaged
 due to certain reason

 The evidence on behalf of the parties is
 complete. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Ex. Pet. No. 10 of 2019 Statement of Sh. P.K. Nadda, Additional
 Advocate General, for the respondent-State. Without Oath
 18.03.2025
 I close the evidence on behalf of the respondent
since the list of witnesses has been exhausted. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 DW-3: Statement of Sh. Shankar Suman Chandan,
 aged about 37 years, Assistant General
 Manager (Civil) FCI, Regional Office, Shimla
 H.P.
 On Oath
 18.03.2025
 I am posted as Assistant General Manager
 (Civil) from 19th August, 2022. I am duly authorized by
 defendant No.1 to appear as a witness. The authorization
 letter is Ex. DW-3/A. I have done B.Tech. (Civil) VNIT,
 Nagpur. I am in FCI since 2017. Being Civil Engineer,
 my nature of job is maintenance of the structure and
 construction of buildings. Defendants No. 1 and 2 has not
 made any permanent structure in rented out premises of the
 plaintiff nor carried out any structural changes in the
 premises. The defendants No. 1 and 2 have not damaged
 any doors windows, fitting and fixture in the tenanted
 premises. The tenanted premises are being used by the FCI
 only for the official purposes. The defendants have made
 temporary partition of the aluminum in the tenanted
 premises for the officials and officers of the department.
 The temporary partitions have been made through screws
 in the walls. These temporary structure are easily
 removable without causing any damage to the permanent
 structure. The defendants had not stacked any junk in any
 part of the tenanted premises. The department has fixed
 the life of the furniture of the office and if the same is
 damaged due to certain reasons, the same is removed from Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 the office after stacking the same for some time before
auction. The defendants have not damaged the electricity
wiring in the tenanted premises, however, for the operation
of computer system temporary external baton wiring has
been done. Due to the external temporary wiring no
damage is caused to the internal wiring. The defendants
maintain the tenanted premises in a habitable condition.
The photographs Ex. DW-3/B to Ex. DW-3/E, are of our
premises (Objected to on the mode of proof). I have gone
through the report (Ex. PW-9/B) submitted by the
expert/valuator. The report is factually incorrect as no
structural damage has been caused by the defendants in the
tenanted premises. Since no damage has been caused to the
tenanted premises, therefore, the defendants are not liable
to pay any damages. xxx xxx xxx Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior
 Advocate, with Shri Surender Kumar,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. It is incorrect that as per the authorization letter
I have been authorized to appear in the case and there is no
authorization to depose on behalf of the defendants. I have
not brought my educational qualification degree today. It is
incorrect that I am not expert for evaluatting the structural
value of the building. The defendants are not owning any
building in Shimla Town. It is incorrect that I have been
posted at Shimla by the defendants to maintain the Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 properties of the defendants. It is correct that for the
tapping of the screws drilling machine is used. I am not
aware in which year the temporary partition has been done
by the defendants in the tenanted premises. I am not aware
that before making in the partitions in the tenanted premises
the defendants have taken prior permission from the owner
of the building. I am not aware whether the plaintiff had
made any communication (Ex. PW-10/Z) in the year 2006
pertaining to the choking of the toilets and drainage system.
I am not aware about any communication which was being
made by the plaintiff in the years 2006-2022, to the
defendants. It is correct that the photographs Mark A-4,
Mark A-15, Mark A-16, Mark A-18, Mark A-19, and A-21,
Mark A-25, pertains to the tenanted premises, however, I do
not identify the other photographs Mark A-5 to Mark A-14,
Mark A-17, Mark A-20, Mark A-22 to Mark A-24, whether
they pertain to the tenanted premises. It is incorrect that
the defendants have not properly maintained the tenanted
premises and damaged the tenanted premises. xxx xxx xxx Shri Shiv Pal Manhans,
 Senior Panel Counsel for defendant No.3. Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)
 18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 Statement of Sh. Y.P. Sood, Advocate, for the
 defendants No. 1 and 2. Without Oath
 18.03.2025
 I close the evidence on behalf of the defendants
No. 1 and 2 on additional issue. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 Statement of Sh. Shiv Pal Manhans, Sr. Panel
 Counsel for the defendant No.3. Without Oath
 18.03.2025
 I do not want to lead any evidence on behalf of
defendant No.3. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 80 of 2010 18.03.2025 Present: Ms. Sunita Sharma, Senior
 Advocate with Shri Surender
 Kumar, Advocate, for the plaintiff. Shri YP Sood , Advocate for
 defendants No., 1 and 2. Shri Shiv Pal Manhans, Sr. Panel
 Counsel for defendant No.3. Statement of Shri Shankar Suman
 Chandan, is recorded as DW-3. Vide separate
 statements learned counsel for defendants No. 1 and 2
 closed the evidence on additional issue. Shri Shiv Pal
 Manhans, Learned Sr. Panel Counsel vide his separate
 statement stated that defendant No.3 do not want to
 lead any evidence on behalf of defendant No.3. Evidence on behalf of the parties is
 complete. Let the matter be listed in the Hon'ble
 Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
18th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit . No. 48 of 2023 19.03.2024: Present: Shri Ajay Kumar Dhiman,
 Advocate, for the plaintiff. Ms. Madhurika Sekhon, Advocate,
 for the defendant. As per office report, the remaining
 plaintiff's witnesses are required to be produced on
 self responsibility today. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that he will produce the remaining plaintiff witnesses
 on the next date of hearing and he seeks adjournment
 for today, which is not opposed by the learned counsel
 for the defendant. Accordingly, the matter is adjourned for
 today. Let the case be listed before the Additional
 Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th March, 2025
 (Pritam)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1039 of 2024 in Cr. Rev. (FC)

 19.03.2024: Present: Shri Jeevan Kumar, Advocate, for
 the applicant. Shri Arsh Chauhan, Advocate, for
 the respondent. The applicant has adduced his evidence by
 way of affidavit, which is taken on record. Copy of the
 affidavit has been supplied to the opposing counsel.
 Learned counsel for the applicant vide his separate
 statement stated that he does not want to lead any
 further evidence and close the evidence on behalf of
 the applicant. Learned counsel for the respondent vide
 his separate statement stated that he does not want to
 lead any evidence in the present application. Accordingly, the evidence on behalf of the
 parties is complete. Let the matter be listed before the Hon'ble
 Court for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
19th March, 2025
 (Pritam)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1039 of 2024 in Cr. Rev. (FC)

 Statement of Sh. Jeevan Kumar, Advocate, for
 the applicant. Without Oath
 19.03.2025
 I close the evidence on behalf of the applicant. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

19th March, 2025
 (Pritam)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1039 of 2024 in Cr. Rev. (FC)

 Statement of Sh. Arsh Chauhan, Advocate, for
 the respondent. Without Oath
 19.03.2025
 Respondent does not want to lead any evidence
in the present application. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

19th March, 2025
 (Pritam)
 Cr. MP(M) No. 1039 of 2024 in Cr. Rev. (FC)

AW-1: Statement of Ms. Anu Devi W/o Shri Satish
 Kumar, aged 38 years, R/o village Harnehr,
 P.O. Sukkar, Tehsil Dharamshala, District
 Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. On Oath
 19.03.2025
 I tender in evidence my affidavit Ex. AW-1/A,
 which may be read as evidence on my behalf. xxx xxx xxx Shri Arsh Chauhan,
 Advocate, for the respondent. Opportunity given. Nil. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

 19th March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2011 Statement of Sh. Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 4, 5 and 6. Without Oath
 21.03.2025
 I give up witness Shri Gopal Singh, Naib Nazir,
office of the Senior Civil Judge-cum-ACJM, Court No.2,
Shimla, since the record brought by him has already been
exhibited. RO & AC
 (Paras Doger)
 Registrar (Judicial)

21st March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 6 of 2011 21.03.2024: Present: Shri Ashok Sood, Senior Advocate
 with Ms. Pooja Verma, Advocate,
 for the plaintiffs. Defendants No. 1 to 3 already ex- parte. Shri Mukul Sood, Advocate, for
 defendants No. 4,5 and 6. As per office report, DWs 7,8 and 9 are
 duly served. However, there is a mismatch in the
 names mentioned in the list of witnesses at Sl. No. 7,8
 and 9 and the summons issued to the witnesses.
 Pursuant to the summons issued, the Clerk namely
 Gopal Singh, from the office of Rent Controller,
 Shimla, is present and he has been given up by the
 learned counsel for defendants No. 4,5 and 6, vide his
 separate statement, since the witness has already been
 examined as DW-2, for the record which has been
 brought by this witness today. Pursuant to the summons issued two more
 witnesses, namely Ms. Renu Sharma, Record Keeper,
 District Court Shimla and Shri Ashwani Kumar,
 Senior Assistant, Municipal Corporation, Shimla, are
 present today. Learned counsel for the defendants
 submits that due to the non-availaibility of record,
 these witnesses may be discharged for today.
 Accordingly, the witnesses are dischared for today. There are two list of witnesses filed by the
 defendants and while filing the process fee, the details
 of the witnesses, who are required to be examined, has
 also been mentioned by the defendants, which is
 creating confusion. Therefore, let defendants No. 4 to 6 file
 consolidated list of witnesses, who have not been
 examined out of the two list of witnesses within a
 week. Let the fresh PF and diet money be also filed
 within a week. Thereafter, the matter be listed before
 the Additional Registrar (Judicial) for fixing the date
 of DWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
21st March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No. 25 of 2022 22.03.2024: Present: Shri Rahul Mahajan, Advocate, for
 the plaintiff. Shri Bhupender Gupta, Senior
 Advocate, with Shri Pranjal Munjal,
 Advocate for defendant No.1. None for defendant No.2. As per the office report, two witnesses
 mentioned at Sl. No. 2 and 3 in the list of witnesses are
 served. Shri Bhushan Kumar is present today,
 however, learned counsel has submitted that due to the
 ill health the other witness could not come to the court
 for adducing his evidence. Learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits
 that the plaintiff wants to move applications under Order VI, Rule 17 CPC for amendment of the
 pleadings, under Order II Rule 2 and under Order I
 Rule 10 CPC . Leranred counsel further submits that
 the same will be filed within a week, therefore, it will
 not be in the interest of justice that the witnesses
 present today be examination before the adjudication
 of these applications. Accordingly, the witness present today is
 discharged for today. Let the case be listed before the
 Hon'ble Court after filing of the above said
 applications for appropriate orders. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
22nd March, 2025
 (Pritam) Civil Suit No.11 of 2023 24.03.2024: Present: Shri Mayank Sharma Advocate,
 vice Mr. Rajeev Rai, Advocate for
 the plaintiff. Shri Trigun Singh Negi, Advocate,
 vice Ms. Kusum Chaudhary,
 Advocate for the defendant. Let the P.F, Diet money and list of
 witnesses be filed within fifteen days. Thereafter
 the matter be listed on 18.08.2025 for PWs. Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th March, 2025
 (G.M) Civil Suit No.59 of 2021 24.03.2024: Present: Shri Prashant Sharma Advocate, for the plaintiff, in Civil suit No. 59 of 2021 and for non counter
 claimant in Civil suit No. 37 of
 2023. Shri Atul Jhingan, Advocate for the
 defendant in Civis Suit No. 59 of
 2021 and counter claimant in Civil suit No. 37 of 2023 As per the office report steps of
 summoning for plaintiffs evidence have not been
 taken. Learned counsel for the plaintiff seeks time
 for doing the needful. Let the steps be taken within two weeks
 and the plaintiff be produced on self responsibility
 on the date to be fixed by the Additional Registrar
 (Judicial). Paras Doger
 Registrar (Judicial)
24th March, 2025
 (G.M)