SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is this a Possible Scam? Or this is exactly how it goes with TV shows?
DATE: 2025-01-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hzspc8/is_this_a_possible_scam_or_this_is_exactly_how_it/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello guys, I have been selected for a very popular show which has been running for 25 years on TV, cannot reveal the name because of its confidentiality. I had auditioned for the same show in 2018 but got rejected after the personal interview round. Lately, when I got the selection intimation, they informed me that there would be no auditions or interview for the show(found it weird) but still had a benefit of doubt. They sent me a booklet on my WhatsApp asking me to fillup my details which can be communicated to the main team who shoots the episodes of the show. I agreed and filled up the booklet and sent them via WhatsApp and email both before the stipulated time. Usually, this show has some strict protocols regarding the selection of a person but when I asked them repeatedly why interviews weren't been conducted, the person from the main team gave me a reason that since the show is completing it's 25 years, they are reaching out to all candidates who registered for the same.

Now, after filling the booklet, the person told me that she will be booking a ticket for me to reach the show venue and participate in it. Asked my Aadhar details, I sent her but deleted the message soon and she reverted back saying that the dates have been postponed for shooting the show's episode. I was pissed as I had taken leaves from my job just to attend this show. Anyways, today I received another call from the "Costume" Team of this show and they told me to send 5 full body length pictures of me wearing dresses that I would wear for the show and tell them all the stuff (makeup, jewelery, shoes), I will be carrying. I sent one picture but the person was rude to me and told me to send a decent pic and has blocked me, I don't know why. What should I do now? Is this genuine or a scam? They haven't asked for any money or any such thing yet.

I still went on to send my full length pictures but the person from the Costumes team said that I look in my 30s (I am younger) and in order to appear good at the show, I need to wear less makeup and wear bodycon dresses or frocks which are thigh length or above knees ( sort of infantalization). The age shaming part really struck me as I have been going through health issues that have impacted my self-esteem.

Could this possibly a scam?

PS: This show is popular among millenials and has a host from the early 1970s, initials start with A.