Through: Mr. Raman Kapur, Sr. Adv. with
 Mr.Dhiraj Sachdeva &
 Mr.Gurmehar Sistani, Advs. CORAM: 2,00,000/- per month from 1.4.2000 till the plaintiff
 is put into the actual and physical possession of the
 said land. The plaintiff undertakes to pay the
 requisite court fee in such eventuality; d) Costs of Suit be awarded. e) any other order which this Hon'ble Court may
 deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances
 of the case may also be passed in favour of the
 plaintiff and against the respondents." 5. On the enhancement of the pecuniary jurisdiction of this
court, the aforesaidsuit was transferred to the court of the learned
District Judge, Central Delhi, where the appellant filed its written
statement opposing the suit. 6. In its written statement filed before the trial Court, the
appellant, while admitting the execution of the lease deed, claimed
that its tenancy was permanent in nature. In the alternative, the
appellant also claimed that the lease deed, though executed for an
initial period of ten years, was in fact for a total period of forty
years - as it included a provision for three automatic renewals of
the lease deed after every ten years. The appellant contended that
the lease, which was for a total period of forty years, was
extendable by a further period of forty years, at the option of the
appellant, on the same terms and conditions. The appellant also
contended that as it had not been served with the requisite notice
under Section 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (' CPC ' for
short), the suit filed by the respondents was not maintainable in its
present form. 7. On the above pleadings, the trial Court framed the following
seven issues on 22.05.2001:- 8. At the stage of trial, when the cross-examination of the
respondent as PW-1 was underway, the appellant moved an
application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC seeking amendment of its
written statement to incorporate a plea to the effect that the
respondent was not the owner of the suit land and that ownership
of the same, in fact, vested with the Gaon Sabha. After this
application was rejected by the trial Court, the appellant moved
another application once again seeking permission to amend its
written statement - this time to incorporate a plea challenging the
maintainability of the suit itself in the light of the applicability of Sections 5 and 6 of the ESSO (Acquisition of Undertakings in
India) Act, 1974('ESSO Act' for short) upon the suit premises;
which application also came to be dismissed by the trial Court on
23.11.2005. Aggrieved by the rejection of its prayer for seeking
amendment of the written statement, the appellant approached this
Court by way of an application being Civil Miscellaneous (Main)
No.657/2015, which came to be allowed subject to payment of
costs of Rs.15,000/- upon an assurance from the appellant that, as a
consequence of such amendment, no prayer for framing of any
further issues or opportunity to lead any fresh evidence would be
sought before the trial Court. In the amended written statement RFA No.20/2016 Page 4 of 42 filed by the appellant on 26.05.2006, the landlord-tenant
relationship between the parties was again admittedby the
appellant. However, another attempt to stall the trial was made by
the appellant who moved an application, under Order 18 Rule 17
CPC , which was rejected by the trial Court on 18.11.2006. The
appellant then approached this Court by an application being C.M.
(Main) No.2162/2006 which was disposed on 02.02.2007, without
grant of any relief to the appellant. This Court, however, in its
order dated 02.02.2007 recorded the statement of the respondent's
counsel that the respondent, without prejudice to its right to claim a
decree for possession, was giving up its claim for mesne profits
prior to 31.10.2004 - for which period he would accept use and
occupation charges at the last paid rate of rent, as per the terms of
the lease deed dated 21.11.1964 with timely increments in the
same, as applicable thereon. 9. Aggrieved by this order dated 02.02.2007, the appellant
preferred a Special Leave Petition before the Hon'ble Supreme
Court being SLP(C) No. 2794/2007 ('SLP' for short) on the ground
that while deciding C.M. (Main) No.2162/2006, this Court had
observed that no useful purpose would be served by allowing the
appellant to prove that it had exercised its right to renew the lease
deed which amounted to a virtual rejection of its defence in the
suit. The SLP remained pending for over a period of five years
when the Respondent, in April, 2012 moved an application therein
being I.A No. 3/2012, praying inter alia that the appellant be
directed to pay to the respondent the prevailing monthly market
rent of Rs. 15,00,000/- till the final disposal of the SLP. The I.A.
was allowed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, vide its order dated
04.08.2012, in the following terms by directing the appellant to pay RFA No.20/2016 Page 5 of 42 monthly damages of Rs.2,00,000/- to the respondent w.e.f. August,
2012 :- 10. The appellant's SLP was finally disposed of by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court, vide its order dated 07.08.2013, whereby the
observations of this Court in paragraph 39 of its order dated
02.02.2007 were set aside. The apex court, after noticing that the
appellant had been already directed to pay damages/monthly mesne
profits at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/- from 30.04.2000 to 31.08.2012,
directed the appellant to continue paying the damages/mesne
profits at the rate of Rs. 2,00,000/- per month during the pendency
of the suit. It was, however, clarified that the aforesaid direction for
mesne profits was interim in nature and would not affect the
calculation of mesne profits after the final disposal of the suit. In
the light of the fact that the suit had remained pending at the trial
Court for thirteen years, the Hon'ble Supreme Court directed the
trial Court to give priority to the trial of the suit. The relevant
extract of the order dated 07.08.2013 passed by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reads as under:- 11. Based on the evidence led before the trial Court, the
respondent's suit came to be decreed under the impugned judgment
in the following terms:- 12. The appellant has approached this Court, by way of the
present Appeal, impugning this judgment and decree dated
09.10.2015. When the present appeal was listed for preliminary
hearing on 31.01.2016, the appellant was directed to deposit the
entire decretal amount with this Court upto 31.01.2016. A further
direction was issued to the appellant to continue to pay a monthly RFA No.20/2016 Page 7 of 42 sum of Rs.2,00,000/- to the respondent during the pendency of the
appeal, along with depositing mesne profits in excess of
Rs.2,00,000/- with the Registry of this Court. In compliance
thereof, the appellant has deposited the entire decretal amount and
a monthly payment of Rs.2,00,000/- is being made to the
respondent. 13. In support of his plea that the appeal is liable to be allowed,
Mr.V.K. Garg, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
appellant/tenant has raised three primary submissions: the first and
foremost being that the trial Court has erred in not appreciating that
the total agreed lease period of eighty years was yet to expire as
Clause 3(d) of the lease deed clearly stipulates that the lease was
extendable by the same length of period, i.e., forty years, for which
it was initially entered into. He submits that even though clause 1
of the lease deed sets forth the initial period of the lease as 10
years, clause 3(d) thereof specifically envisaged three more
renewals of ten years each. The cumulative period of the lease
deed, thus, at the time of its execution itself, was forty years which
was extendable by a further period of forty years at the option of
the appellant/tenant. He submits that a necessary corollary of the
aforesaid covenants of the lease deed is that once the appellant had
made its request for extension of the lease deed, it was incumbent
upon the landlord/respondent to renew the same for a further
period of forty years. He, thus, submits that the decree for
possession is liable to be set aside and that the appellant is entitled
to retain the suit premises on lease for a further period of forty
years reckoned from 01.11.2004. 14. The next submission of Mr.Garg is that in the light of the clear
concession made by the respondent before this Court on RFA No.20/2016 Page 8 of 42 02.02.2007 that he would not claim mesne profits for the period till
31.10.2004, he was estopped from claiming any amount higher
than the agreed rate of rent for the said period. He, thus, contends
that the trial Court ought not to have even examined the issue of
grant of mesne profits payable to the respondent for any period
prior to 31.10.2004. He submits that the trial Court has, thus, erred
in awarding mesne profits w.e.f. 30.04.2000 by ignoring the
respondent's concession, which he has not sought to withdraw till
date. He further submits that even the award of mesne profits at an
exorbitant rate of Rs.2,00,000/- per month, without any evidence
being adduced thereto, was wholly unsustainable and contrary to
the settled legal position. He submits that once no evidence was
led by the respondent in support of his claim for mesne profits at a
monthly rate of Rs.2,00,000/-, it was incumbent upon the trial
Court to independently determine the actual rate of mesne profits
to be granted in the present case, by conducting an inquiry in
accordance with the procedure prescribed under Order XX Rule
12 CPC . He submits that the trial Court has, instead, awarded
mesne profits in the instant case by simply relying on the order
dated 07.08.2013 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court while
disposing of the appellant's SLP and contends that, in doing so, the
trial Court has overlooked a categorical statement in the said order
that the direction to pay Rs.2,00,000/- as monthly mesne profits
was purely interim in nature and would be subject to the rate of
mesne profits as determined by the trial Court during the final
disposal of the suit. He further submits that even though the Courts
have the discretion to award mesne profits as applicable to the facts
and circumstances of each case, the said discretion has to be
exercised sparingly, strictly on the basis of the evidence brought on RFA No.20/2016 Page 9 of 42 record and not at the ipse dixit of the Court. He submits that when
the lease deed was signed initially, the leased property had merely
been a vacant plot on which the appellant constructed the building
and the entire infrastructure present therein, including the petrol
pump, underground diesel and petrol tanks, rooms, toilets and other
constructions, made for operating the petrol pump. It is his
contention that the trial Court, at the time of evaluating the mesne
profits payable to the respondent, lost sight of the appellant's
contributions to the leased property which had substantially
enhanced its value. He, thus, reiterates that in the absence of any
material or any inquiry made in regard thereto, the award of mesne
profits at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/- is unsustainable and liable to be
set aside. 15. In support of his aforesaid contentions, Mr. Garg has placed
reliance on the decisions of thisCourt in M.C. Agrawal HUF Vs.
Sahara India & Ors. 183 (2011) Delhi Law Times 105; National
Radio & Electronic Co. Ltd. Vs. Motion Pictures Association 122
(2005) Delhi Law Times 629 (DB); Om Prakash Chopra & Ors.
Vs. State Bank of India and Ganapati Madhav Sawant (Dead)
Through His LRs Vs. Dattur Madhav Sawant (2008) 3 SCC 183. 16. Mr.Garg, finally submits that the learned trial Court has
erred in directing an annual enhancement of 10% on this monthly
sum of Rs.2,00,000/- found to be payable to the respondent as
mesne profits. He submits that it is a settled legal position that the
Courts can only grant reliefs claimed by the parties in their
pleadings and that, in the instant case, the trial Court travelled
beyond the pleadings of the respondent while granting relief to
him; which is legally unsustainable. In this context, he draws my
attention to the prayers made in the plaint and submits that the RFA No.20/2016 Page 10 of 42 respondent had specifically prayed for grant of mesne profits at the
rate of Rs.2,00,000/- per month w.e.f. 01.04.2000, till the date the
vacant possession of the property is handed over to him. Evidently,
the respondent had not sought any annual increment on the amount
of mesne profits claimed by him. He, therefore, contends that the
trial Court could not have granted any annual enhancement on the
mesne profits. He submits that this relief granted by the trial Court
is not only beyond the pleadings, but is contrary to the settled legal
position that the decision of a case ought to be based only on the
issues arising from the pleadings of the parties. In support of this
contention, he places reliance on M/s Trojan & Co. Vs. R. M. N.
N.Nagappa Chettiar AIR 1953 SC 235; Om Prakash & Ors. Vs.
Ram Kumar &Ors. AIR 1991 SC 409; Bachhaj Nahar Vs. Nilima
Mandal & Anr. 2008 ( 17) SCC 491, and Chittoori Subbanna Vs.
Kudappa Subanna & Ors. AIR 1965 SC 1325. 17. Per contra, Mr.Raman Kapur, learned senior counsel for the
respondent submits that the appellant's plea that as per the lease
deed, the initial tenancy itself was for a period of 40 years,
extendable by a further period of 40 years, is wholly misconceived,
and has been rightly rejected by the trial Court. He submits that a
bare perusal of Clauses 1 and 3(d) of the lease deed would show
that, initially, the lease term was only for a period of ten years and
that, subsequently, the same could be extended thrice - at best; each
extension being for a further period of ten years. This meant that
the maximum lease term, as per the covenants of the lease deed and
keeping in mind the provisions for extensions therein, was forty
years. 18. Refuting the second contention of the appellant that mesne
profits have been awarded by the trial Court without adhering to RFA No.20/2016 Page 11 of 42 the prescribed procedure or adducing any evidence thereto,
Mr.Kapur submits that Order XX Rule 12 of CPC confers absolute
discretion upon the Court to determine the mesne profits on its own
or to order an inquiry to that end. He submits that the appellant's
plea that no evidence had been led on the question of mesne profits
and, therefore, an inquiry ought to have been made by the trial
Court before award of mesne profits is contrary to record. The trial
Court, in the present case, exercised its discretion to award mesne
profits only after taking into account the relevant evidence led by
the parties thereon and that, therefore, its findings could not be
faulted. At the stage of evidence, in his statement as PW-1, the
respondent specifically stated that the suit premises was located in
a posh area on the main Mathura Road and that such properties
fetched a minimum of Rs.2,00,000/- per month on rent. In the same
statement, the respondent also set down that the suit premises,
owing to its proximity to the renowned Apollo Hospital and the
surrounding industrial belt, had great commercial value and that
damages at the rate of Rs. 2,00,000/- per month for such property
was reasonable. Mr. Kapur contends that the appellant did not
cross-examine the respondent on these aspects of his statement
and, thus, the evidence of the respondent on this aspect remained
unrebutted and was, therefore, rightly relied upon by the trial Court
while computing the mesne profits accruing to the respondent.To
lend credence to the aforesaid contention, Mr.Kapur draws my
attention to the cross-examination of the appellant's own witness
wherein he had specifically admitted that the suit property was
indeed situated on main Mathura Road and was surrounded by
showrooms and petrol pumps thereby affirming the respondent's
claim that the suit property had good commercial value. He further RFA No.20/2016 Page 12 of 42 submits that, in fact the appellant did not ever state, either in his
examination in chief or in his cross-examination, that the rentals of
similarly placed property were lower than what was being claimed
by the respondent. 19. In the light of the settled legal position that at the time of
awarding mesne profits it is for the Court to exercise its discretion
by taking into account the entirety of facts and circumstances of the
case, Mr. Kapur submits that no interference in the direction of the
trial Court is called for. He further submits that the trial Court was
justified in taking judicial notice of the factum of increase in rent
owing to efflux of time during the pendency of litigation and for
also taking into account the interim direction passed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court to the appellant to pay mesne profits at the
rate of Rs.2,00,000/- per month to the respondent w.e.f.
30.04.2000. In support of this contention, he places reliance on Consep India Pvt. Ltd. vs. CEPCO Industries Pvt. Ltd. (2010) ILR
3 Delhi 766 20. Mr. Kapoor submits that in fact, the monthly mesne profits
of Rs.2,00,000/-, as awarded by the trial Court, was rather on the
lower side, when compared with the corresponding rates of rent
being charged on comparable properties located on the main
Mathura Road. 21. Mr. Kapur also refutes the appellant's plea that the trial court
could not have awarded mesne profits for the period prior to
31.10.2004 as the respondent had already made a concession, on
02.02.2007, that he would not claim mesne profits for the said
period. He submits that once the Supreme Court had, while
disposing of the appellant's SLP, set aside this court's order dated
02.02.2007 and had specifically directed the appellant to pay an RFA No.20/2016 Page 13 of 42 enhanced rent at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/- per month to the
respondent w.e.f. 30.04.2000, the respondent has been rightly
awarded mesne profits from the said date. The appellant had,
infact, sought review of the Supreme Court's order dated
07.08.2013 which came to be dismissed. Mr. Kapur thus, contends
that the issue of the concession given by the respondent's counsel
before this Court on 02.02.2007 does not survive any longer as the
said order already stands quashed by the Apex Court. He further
contends that in the light of the orders passed by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court, the appellant is now estopped from contending that
mesne profits are not payable w.e.f. 30.04.2000. 22. Learned senior counsel for the respondent also refutes the
appellant's plea that in view of the prayer in the plaint being only
for an award of monthly mesne profits at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/-
till the date of vacation of the suit premises, the Court could not
have granted any enhancement thereon. He submits that in the
facts of the present case, where the trial has been prolonged for
fifteen years on account of the appellant moving repeated
applications, the trial Court has rightly directed payment of future
mesne profits with an annual enhancement of 10%. He submits
that it is to cater to such protracted litigations, that Section 2(12) of
the CPC entitles a plaintiff to future mesne profits, even without
making a specific claim thereto. As it may not always be possible
for a plaintiff to foresee the duration of the litigation, the award of
future mesne profits at a rate higher than that claimed in the plaint,
is fully justified. In support of his contention, Mr. Kapur places
reliance on R.S. Madanappa vs. Chandramma & Ors. AIR 1965
SC 1812 and Smt. Santosh Arora vs. M.L. Arora211 (2014) DLT 312. RFA No.20/2016 Page 14 of 42 23. The final contention of Mr.Kapur is that the appellant's
reliance upon the decisions in M.C. Agrawal HUF (supra) and National Radio (supra) is misplaced as the said cases pertain to
lease deeds executed in the recent past, in which circumstances,
this Court found it fair and proper to award mesne profits by
granting an annual enhancement of 15% on the agreed rent. On the
other hand, in the present case the subject lease deed had been
executed in the year 1964 and the respondent is yet to receive
possession of his premises even after more than 55 years. He
submits that with the passage of time, the complexion of the entire
area where the suit premises is situated, viz., main Mathura Road,
has undergone a sea of change and presently, the rates of rent of
similarly situated properties in the area is more than Rs.20,00,000/-
per month, which fact has been duly taken into consideration by
the trial Court while passing the impugned judgment and decree.
He, therefore, prays that the appeal be dismissed with costs. 24. This Court has heard the learned Senior Counsel appearing
for the parties at length and has, with their assistance, perused the
record. 25. Before dealing with the rival contentions advanced, it is
apposite to refer to the relevant terms and conditions of the lease
deed as contained in Clauses 1 and 3(d) therein. The same read as
under:- 26. A conjunctive reading of these two clauses of the lease deed
leaves no doubt that there is absolutely no merit in the appellant's
first submission that the initial term of the lease under the existing RFA No.20/2016 Page 16 of 42 deed was for a period of forty years which expired only on
31.10.2004, whereafter it was extendable at the appellant/tenant's
option for a further period of forty years. Clause 1 of the lease
deed specifically stipulates that the lease term was for a period of
ten years. It is only this term of ten years which, in accordance
with Clause 3(d), was further renewable for three terms of ten
years' each; subject to a written request being made by the tenant
to that effect, within the specified time period. Nowhere does the
lease deed envisage an initial lease term of forty years, as is sought
to be contended by the appellant. 27. Even though the appellant claims to have made requests to
the respondent for extension of the lease from time to time, its first
written communication to that effect, as placed on record, was on
12.10.2004, by which time the initial ten years' period of lease had
already stood expired. As per Clause 3(d) of the lease deed, any
request for extension had to be made at least two months prior to
the expiry of the initial ten years' period and, that too, in writing.
In the light of the admitted position that the first written request for
extension of the lease was made only after the expiry of almost
forty years, i.e., on 12.10.2004, it is evident that no request for
extension in accordance with the provisions of Clause 3(d) of the
lease deed was ever made by the appellant within the specified
time period, i.e., before the expiry of the initial ten years' term and,
therefore, the initial lease term of ten years' itself never stood
extended. In these circumstances, there is no merit in the
appellant's submission that the term of the lease, having been
extended, was, in fact, for a period of forty years which term could
be extended at the option of the appellant for a further period of
forty years. 28. Thus, what emerges is that though the initial term of ten
years, for which period the property was leased to the appellant had
already expired on 01.11.1974, and even if the lease had been
extended in the manner prescribed in the lease deed, the maximum
period for which the lease could have possibly subsisted, i.e., forty
years, had already expired in 2004; yet, the respondent is still
waiting for the appellant/tenant to return his property which
rightfully belongs to him. 29. In the light of the aforesaid, there is absolutely no ground
made out to interfere with the decree, insofar as it concerns the
relief for possession granted in favour of the respondent, who is
being unfairly deprived of a valuable property owned by him
merely on the erroneous interpretation of the terms of the lease
deed by the appellant/tenant. 30. I may now refer to the appellant's challenge to the grant of
mesne profits awarded in favour of the respondent. As noted
hereinabove, the grant of mesne profits has been assailed by the
appellant on three counts: the period for which the same have been
granted, the rate of mesne profits granted and the annual
enhancement and interest granted thereon. 31. Before dealing with the rival contentions on this aspect, it
would be appropriate to refer to Section 2(12) of the CPC, which
defines mesne profits and under which provision the claim of the
respondent is premised. Reference may also be made to Order XX
Rule 12 CPC , which prescribes the procedure to be followed by the
Court while dealing with a claim for grant of mesne profits. These
provisions read as under:- 32. The aforesaid provisions have already been extensively
examined in decisions of the various High Courts as well as the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. A common vein of these judgments is that
mesne profits, which a landlord is entitled to receive from a tenant
who is continuously in occupation of the lease property despite the
termination of the lease, has been laid down to mean the rate of
rent which would otherwise accrue on a suit premises during the
period of its illegal occupation by a tenant. However, the burden
which the Courts are often tasked with is to determine the
appropriate amount payable to the landlord/owner towards such
mesne profits. This process of determination of mesne profits
begins with the landlord discharging the onus placed upon him to
prove his claim for mesne profits, in accordance with the law.
Thereafter, it is for the Court to ascertain the appropriate mesne
profits to be awarded to the claimant by adhering to the parameters
as set out in Order XX Rule 12 CPC which prescribes that while
passing the decree for possession, the Court may either
straightaway pass a decree for mesne profits or direct that an
inquiry be conducted for assessing the rate of mesne profits
payable. If the Court finds that there is sufficient and authentic
evidence available on record for determination of the landlord's
claim for mesne profits, the Court may, in its discretion, award the
same by relying on such evidence. In the alternative, in situations
when the Court finds that the evidence brought on record is not
sufficient for such determination, the Court may direct that an
inquiry be conducted thereto, in accordance with the provisions of
the CPC . In this regard, reference may be made to Chittoori
Subbanna (supra), Ganpati Madhav Sawant (supra), National
Radio (supra) and M.C. Agrawal HUF (supra) on which heavy RFA No.20/2016 Page 20 of 42 reliance has been placed by the learned senior counsel for the
appellant. I find that, in fact, the ratio of the decisions relied upon
by the learned senior counsel for the respondent, viz., Consep
India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and Suman Verma & Ors. vs. Sushil
Mohini Gupta & Ors. 2014(140) DRJ 595, concurs with the ratio
of the decisions sought to be relied upon by the appellant in this
regard and also lay down the same parameters for determining
mesne profits. 33. While bearing in mind the broad parameters statutorily
prescribed for determination of the mesne profits payable, as noted
hereinabove, it is now time to refer to the evidence led before the
trial Court on this aspect. The admitted case of the parties is that
the claim for mesne profits was based only on the oral evidence led
by the landlord and the tenant and that no lease deeds for the said
period for similarly situated properties in the area were brought on
record by any of the parties. 34. The respondent tendered his own evidence by way of an
affidavit dated 27.11.2002; the relevant extract whereof reads as
under:- 35. The respondent was extensively cross-examined by the
appellant and his cross-examination reads as under:- These constructions were there right from the beginning.
 I did not write to defendants that the defendant is raising
 constructions without my consent. It is true that the site
 where petrol pump is constructed has been shown as the
 Landment for petrol pump. It is wrong to suggest that
 every time after the expiry of 10 years defendants
 expressed their intention to continue with the renewal of
 lease. I do not remember the date when the rent was
 increased from 506/- to 675/-. It is correct that rent was
 increased from 506/- to 675/-. It is correct that
 defendant used to give yearly rent in advance. I have not
 given detail of any property which has been let out at a
 monthly rent of Rs. 2 Lakhs for similar accommodation.
 It is wrong to suggest that this property has no
 commercial value as per the master plan. It is wrong to
 suggest that I am deposing falsely." 36. In the light of the evidence led by the respondent/landlord as
reproduced hereinabove, I may now refer to the evidence of the RFA No.20/2016 Page 23 of 42 appellant tendered by way of an Affidavit and the relevant portion
thereof reads as under:- 37. It is manifest from the evidence tendered by the respondent
that he categorically stated on oath that the suit property was
situated in a posh locality on the main Mathura Road near
Badarpur, and that the same would not be available for a rate of
rent less than Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. It was also stated that the suit
premises was situated at a strategic juncture between Faridabad and
Delhi, flanked by posh colonies such as Friends Colony, Sukhdev
Vihar and the Mohan Cooperative Industrial Area and was, in fact,
situated at Badarpur which boasts of huge commercial activities. It
was further stated that corresponding properties in the area
commanded a huge premium rental value and that the damages
quantified at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. for the suit property
admeasuring a large tract of 2763 sq. yards was reasonable.
Curiously, at the time of his cross-examination, except a vague
suggestion made to the effect that the property had no commercial
value, the respondent was not cross-examined on the aspect of the
prevailing rates of rent in the area being lesser than the amount
claimed by him nor was he asked to depose specifically on the RFA No.20/2016 Page 24 of 42 falsity of his claim that the rentals of similarly situated properties
in the area were Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. 38. By contrast, it is interesting to note that despite the
respondent's aforenoted categorical pleadings regarding the rates
of rent in the lease property, the only defense offered thereto by the
appellant were bald denials. No attempt was in fact made to
dislodge the respondent's statements that the lease property was
located in a posh locality and that similar land was not available for
a rate of rent of less than Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. What emanates from
the above is that, essentially, the respondent/landlord's oral
evidence in support of his claim for mesne profits remained
unrebutted at the stage of adjudication of the suit. In the light of the
respondent's specific plea and assertions regarding the quantum of
mesne profits payable, it was incumbent upon the appellant to
adduce some evidence, even if oral in nature, to demonstrate that
the prevailing rate of rent of similar properties in the area, as
claimed by the respondent in his plaint as well as his testimony,
was exorbitant. The appellant has miserably failed to discharge this
burden. 39. In the light of the above discussion, I am unable to
appreciate the appellant's plea that there was no evidence in
support of the respondent's claim for mesne profits. In my view,
when evidence of the respondent/witness, in the form of his
statement by way of an Affidavit, had been tendered and the same
remained uncontroverted, the appellant's plea that no evidence had
been led before the Court to justify the grant of mesne profits at the
rate of Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. is without any merit. 40. Even though there may be merit in the submission of the
appellant that the mesne profits, as fixed by the Hon'ble Supreme RFA No.20/2016 Page 25 of 42 Court in its order dated 07.08.2013, was interim in nature and was,
therefore, subject to final adjudication by the trial Court; it cannot
be denied that the Hon'ble Supreme Court arrived at this
computation of the mesne profits after taking into account the
location of the suit premises and other circumstances germane
thereto. Clearly, the trial Court has taken judicial notice of the
interim award granted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court but its
findings with respect to the award for mesne profits cannot be
stated to be based only thereon. Thus, I find no merit in the
appellant's contention that the mere factum of the amount of mesne
profits, as awarded by the trial Court and the Hon'ble Supreme
Court, being the same implies that the trial Court has awarded
mesne profits without examining the evidence on record. This
contention, at best, is a shot in the dark by the appellant to
substantiate its claim that the amount of mesne profits awarded in
the instant case is erroneous. Even otherwise, the calculation of
mesne profits always involves some guess work and the Courts
have, hitherto in several cases, taken judicial notice of the
prevalent market rents of different areas within the city while
awarding mesne profits. In this regard, reference may be made to
paragraphs 22 (a) to (e) of Suman Verma (supra), relied upon by
the respondents, in which it was held as under:- supra and applicability of prevalent rents in the city
 and of which the Judges manning the Courts and who
 are born and brought up in the same city, are generally
 aware of. (e) The Division Benches of this court in Vinod Khanna
 Vs. Bakshi Sachdev AIR 1996 Delhi 32 and S.Kumar
 Vs. G.K. Kathpalia 1991 (1) RCR 431, taking judicial
 notice, refused to interfere with the rate of mesne
 profits even where the landlord had not led any
 documentary evidence. Notice of such increase has
 also been taken by the Supreme Court in Saradamani
 Kandappan Vs. S. Rajalakshmi (2011) 12 SCC 18." 41. Further reference may be made to paragraphs 31-33 of the
decision in National Radio (supra), on which reliance has been
placed by the appellant itself, where the Division Bench has, after
referring to some of the earlier decisions of this Court, observed
asunder: 32. In another Division Bench pronouncement reported
 at (supra) entitled S. Kumar v. G.R. Kathpalia the issue
 raised was as follow: 33. The respondents have also drawn our attention to the
 pronouncement of learned Single Judge of this Court in
 (supra) entitled Mrs. Dr. P.S. Bedi v. The Project and
 Equipment Corporation of India Ltd. Adverting to the
 several pronouncements, noticed by us hereinabove the
 Court answered the issue relating to damages/mesne
 profits as follows: 42. Accordingly, in the facts of the present case, once the Court
has exercised its discretion to award mesne profits by relying upon
the virtually uncontroverted testimony of the landlord/respondent
along with the prevalent rents of similarly situated properties in the
area, which had been taken judicial notice of, it cannot be said that
the mesne profits awarded is, in any manner, whimsical or not
based on the evidence brought on record. Since it is apparent that
the mesne profits awarded by the trial Court is based on the
evidence led before it, the appellant's contention that the trial Court
could not have awarded mesne profits without conducting an
inquiry under Order XX Rule 12of the CPC has also been rendered
without any merit and is rejected. Even the decisions in Bachhaj
Nahar (supra), Ganpathy (supra) and National Radio (supra),
relied upon by the appellant, reiterate the settled legal position that
the Courts ought to order an inquiry as per the provisions of Order
XX Rule 12 of the CPC only in cases where absolutely no evidence
has been led by the parties on the issue of quantum of mesne RFA No.20/2016 Page 31 of 42 profits to be awarded. In the present case, given that the evidence
led by the respondent/landlord on the quantum of mesne profits to
be awarded remained uncontroverted, I find no merit in the
appellant's submission that the award of mesne profits without an
inquiry was not justified. I am of the view that, in the light of the
evidence on record, there is absolutely no reason to interfere with
the monthly mesne profits awarded by the trial Court. 43. I may now refer to the next contention of the appellant that
considering the admitted position that the respondent had, in his
plaint, not claimed mesne profits at a rate higher than Rs.2,00,000/-,
the trial Court could not have granted any enhancement or interest
thereon; or that the award of any enhancement on the amount of
mesne profits as prayed for in the plaint, amounts to granting a
relief to the respondent beyond his pleadings. In my opinion, this
contention of the appellant overlooks the fact that the grant of relief
for future mesne profits at a rate higher than what was claimed in
the plaint was, in fact, a natural consequence of the delay in
adjudication of the respondent's claim for mesne profits. Merely
because the respondent, in his plaint filed in April, 2000, claimed
mesne profits at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/- p.m. the same would not
preclude him from subsequently claiming a higher amount towards
mesne profits for the period which has elapsed during the pendency
of the suit, especially in cases like the instant one where the suit
remained pending for over a period of 15 years. Unscrupulous
parties delaying the disposal of cases is a common sight in our
litigation system and even when the landlord/owner of the suit
property succeeds in obtaining a decree for possession in his
favour, the execution of such decree may still take a long time. It is
for this reason that it is necessary for the Courts to remain mindful RFA No.20/2016 Page 32 of 42 of such extenuating circumstances and award reasonable mesne
profits, as per the prevailing market rent; the grant of enhanced
mesne profits, in such circumstances, to accommodate loss of rent
endured during the pendency of the suit proceedings cannot be
deemed as granting relief beyond the pleadings of the parties. As
noted earlier, mesne profits under section 2(12) of the CPC is a
compensation which the owner is entitled to receive from the
person who has been in wrongful possession of the property and
the determination thereof would be based on the evidence led
before the Court. A substantive right of this nature cannot be
diluted on the pretext of a technicality and a landlord/owner of the
suit property cannot be estopped from claiming a larger sum as
mesne profits than what was claimed in the plaint. I find that the
reliance placed on Trojan (supra), Om Prakash (supra), and Bachhaj Nahar (supra) by the appellants is wholly misplaced as
these decisions only concern cases where the Court had granted
reliefs which were not only beyond the pleadings but were neither
consequential nor ancillary to the relief sought in the plaint and
were, therefore, held to be impermissible. 44. The question as to whether the plaintiff can be awarded
future mesne profits at a rate higher than what has been claimed in
the plaint has been dealt with in various decisions of this Court.
Reference, in this regard, may be made to Santosh Arora (supra)
where the Division Bench of this Court held as under:- It is for this reason only that payment of Court Fees of
 future mesne profits decreed is a condition to the
 execution thereof and is not to be paid at the time of
 institution of the suit. At the time of institution of the
 suit and which often remain pending for long, it is not
 possible for the plaintiff to state as to what benefits the
 defendant in wrongful possession of the property
 would receive from time to time. 26. The question which arises is that if the plaintiff,
 without even making a specific claim for future mesne
 profits is in law entitled thereto, as held in R.S.
 Madanappa & Bhagwati Prasad (supra) if makes a claim
 for future mesne profits at a particular rate, whether he is
 entitled to future mesne profits at the maximum of that rate
 only or if the same are determined / found to be due at a
 higher rate, would be entitled to such higher rate. 27. In our opinion the plaintiff in such a situation would
 be entitled to such higher rate since he was not obliged to
 make a claim for future mesne profits, not obliged to pay
 Court Fees thereon and could not have in any case known
 to future mesne profits at what rate he would be entitled to
 as observed by the Supreme Court in Gopalakrishna Pillai supra. Once it is held to be the duty of the Court under
 Order 20 Rule 12 to award future mesne profits even
 without a specific prayer in this regard, the specific prayer
 even if made by the plaintiff cannot limit the entitlement of
 the plaintiff to future mesne profits. 28. We find the High Court of Bombay in Nathumal
 Chandanmal and Co. Vs. Damodar Prabhat Sharma
 MANU/MH/0310/1978 to have succinctly dealt with the
 question as under:- We respectfully agree in toto with the same. 29. The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Gauri
 Prosad Koondoo Vs. Reily ILR 9 Cal 112, High Court of
 Andhra Pradesh in Magunta Kota Reddy Vs. Pothula
 Chendrasekhara Reddy AIR 1963 AP 42 and the High Court
 of the Rajasthan in Prithvi Singh Vs. Pahap Singh
 MANU/RH/0369/2006 have also held that a plaintiff is not
 estopped from claiming a larger sum as mesne profits than
 what was claimed in the plaint. 30. The aforesaid reasoning is supported by the
 observations of the Supreme Court in M/s. Marshall Sons &
 Co. (I) Ltd. vs. M/s. Sahi Oretans (P) Ltd. (1999) 2 SCC 325
 to the effect that because of the delay unscrupulous parties
 to the proceedings take undue advantage and person who is
 in wrongful possession draws delight in delay in disposal of
 the cases by taking undue advantage of procedural RFA No.20/2016 Page 35 of 42 complications; even after obtaining a decree for possession
 of immovable property, its execution takes long time; in
 such a situation, for protecting the interest of the judgment
 creditor, it is necessary to pass appropriate order so that
 reasonable mesne profits which may be equivalent to the
 market rent is paid by a person who is holding over the
 property. 31. Reference with advantage can also be made to the
 judgment of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court
 in Saraswathi Pillay Vs. Parameswara Kurup
 MANU/KE/0180/1977 reiterating as under:- 32. This Court in Holiday Home Vs. R.P. Kapur HUF
 MANU/DE/3498/2010 has held that enquiry under Order 20
 Rule 12 of the CPC is warranted only where the landlord
 has not been able to adduce sufficient evidence during trial;
 else, if sufficient evidence during trial has been led, there is
 no need for a separate enquiry under Order 20 Rule 12. Similarly in Kavita Gambhir v. Hari Chand Gambhir 162
 (2009) DLT 459 it was held that it is in the discretion of the
 Court whether mesne profits are determined along with the
 adjudication for the relief of recovery of possession or an
 enquiry thereto has to be ordered after the adjudication as
 to the recovery of possession. Thus it is not as if the higher
 rate than claimed can be given only in an enquiry and not if
 the issue of mesne profits is decided along with the issue of
 recovery of possession of the premises. 33. The contention of the counsel for the respondent /
 plaintiff before the learned Single Judge that if the
 respondent / plaintiff were to amend the plaint in the first
 suit to enhance the rate at which mesne profits are claimed,
 the same would result in the Court of the learned Additional
 District Judge losing pecuniary jurisdiction to try the suit,
 causing further delays was also misconceived. The Supreme
 Court in Mahadeo Savlaram Shelke Vs. Puna Municipal
 Corporation (1995) 3 SCC 33 held that the limits of the
 pecuniary jurisdiction of the Court of first instance does not
 impede and is not a bar to award damages beyond its
 pecuniary jurisdiction." 45. In the present case, I find that the trial Court has granted an
annual enhancement of only 10% in the mesne profits which, in my
considered opinion, cannot be deemed to be arbitrary or exorbitant
in any manner, especially in the light of the decisions of this Court
in M.C. Agrawal HUF (supra) and Om Prakash Chopra (supra), RFA No.20/2016 Page 37 of 42 wherein this Court had approved an annual enhancement of 15% in
mesne profits. That being so, I find no infirmity in the trial Court's
decision to grant an annual enhancement of 10% in the mesne
profits awarded to the respondent. 46. I may now turn to the last submission of the appellant that
the grant of interest on mesne profits was unjustified. This
submission needs to be noted only to be rejected. In the face of the
settled proposition of law that interest forms an integral part of the
mesne profits and, therefore, once the Court awards mesne profits,
the interest accruing thereon has to be allowed in the computation
of the mesne profits itself. A tenant cannot be permitted to urge
that mesne profits which in fact ought to have been paid years ago,
should not bear any interest. In this regard, reference may be made
to the ratio laid down in paragraphs 64 and 65 of Consep India (supra) wherein this Court, after examining the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur v.
I.S. Ratta and Ors.120 (2005) DLT 407, observed as under:- 17. The aforesaid issue is no longer res integra
 that interest on mesne profits could be paid. The
 next question, therefore, would be as to what
 would be the appropriate rate of interest. The
 learned Trial Court has awarded 16.5% p.a.,
 interest on the rent. In the aforesaid case decided
 by the Supreme Court 6% interest was held to be
 a reasonable interest. In the said case it was held
 that: "In any event, if the Trial Court in its
 discretion awarded interest at 6 per cent, and
 that is admittedly not per se an unreasonable
 rate, there was no compelling equity in the
 Mahant to justify interference with that
 discretion." 18. Considering the facts and circumstances of
 the case we consider that direction to pay interest
 @ 16.5% p.a was on the higher side. We, in the
 facts and circumstances of the case, deem it
 proper to fix the rate of interest payable by the
 appellant to the respondents towards the arrears
 of mesne profits from the date of decree till the
 date of possession at 12% p.a. Ordered
 accordingly. The amount paid in excess shall be
 returned by the respondents to the appellant,
 failing which security furnished for restitution
 shall be enforced and the amount which is lying
 with the Trial Court amounting to Rs.40 lakhs
 and TDS amount of Rs.5 lakhs shall be returned
 to the appellant. The appeal stands disposed of in
 terms of the aforesaid order." 65. In the facts and circumstances, the learned trial
 court, in my view, has rightly held that the respondent is
 entitled to mesne profits at the rate of Rs.50/- per sq. ft.
 per month, i.e., Rs.45,000/- per month with effect from
 the month of November, 2005 till the vacation of the
 tenanted premises. As held by the Division Bench in the RFA No.20/2016 Page 40 of 42 I.S. Ratta 's case (supra), interest is liable to be awarded
 on mesne profits. The only question, therefore, which
 remains to be considered is what would be the
 appropriate rate of interest on the mesne profits awarded
 by the learned trial court. The learned trial court has
 awarded 12% p.a. interest on the rent. Considering the
 facts and circumstances of the case, it is deemed
 appropriate to fix the rate of interest payable by the
 appellant to the respondent towards the arrears of rent
 and mesne profits @ 9% p.a. throughout." 47. In the present case the trial Court, in its discretion, has
awarded simple interest only @ 6% per annum towards the arrears
of mesne profits. In the facts of the present case, where the
appellant has successfully resisted the respondent's claim to get
possession of his property for nineteen years even after filing the
suit for possession and that too when the respondent's title to the
same is undisputed, the grant of interest @ 6% per annum can
neither be termed as arbitrary nor exorbitant. In my view, such
interest upon mesne profits is not only fair and reasonable, but was
fully justified to meet the ends of justice. Thus, I do not find any
reason to interfere even with this direction of the trial Court. 48. Before I conclude, I may also refer to the appellant's plea
that inasmuchas this Court, in M.C. Agrawal HUF (supra) and Om
Prakash Chopra (supra), had awarded mesne profits at the rate of
15% increased rent over the contractual rate of rent, the trial
Court's decision to grant mesne profits at the rate of Rs.2,00,000/-
in the instant case, which is almost 300 times the contractual
monthly rent of Rs.675/-, cannot be sustained. I find no merit in
this submission as the aforementioned decisions bear upon cases
where no evidence was led in support of the claim for mesne
profits. In such cases, therefore, while dealing with instances
involving lease deeds executed only about four to five years prior RFA No.20/2016 Page 41 of 42 to the claim for mesne profits being raised, the Court had granted
an enhancement of 15% on the contractual rent as mesne profits.
On the other hand, in the present case, not only was there sufficient
evidence led before the trial Court on the quantum of mesne
profits, but the subject lease deed itself was executed 55 years ago,
during which period the area where the suit premises is situated has
undergone a tremendous transformation. Therefore mesne profits
accruing on the suit premises, the economic value of which has
increased exponentially over recent years, cannot, in the facts of
the present case, be based on the contractual rent. 49. For the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the appeal which
is dismissed along with pending applications without any order as
to costs. 50. Pursuant to the order dated 31.01.2016, the appellant has
deposited the decretal amount and has further deposited on a
monthly basis, after paying Rs.2,00,000/- to the respondent, the
differential amount of mesne profits with the Registry of this
Court, which amount has been kept in an interest bearing FDR. In
view of the appeal being dismissed, the Registry is directed to
forthwith release the entire amount deposited by the appellant, in
favour of the respondent, with upto date accrued interest thereon. (REKHA PALLI)
 JUDGE
JULY 31, 2019/aa RFA No.20/2016 Page 42 of 42