SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ‘Don’t Alienate Innocent Kashmiris’: J&amp;K Leaders to Union Govt After Bulldozer Action
DATE: 2025-04-28
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1k9riy0/dont_alienate_innocent_kashmiris_jk_leaders_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

Srinagar: With the family residences of at least nine suspected militants demolished in the aftermath of the Pahalgam terror attack, J&amp;K chief minister Omar Abdullah and other Kashmir-based leaders on Sunday (April 27) unanimously spoke out against the administration’s actions.

The spate of demolitions over the last three days, which took place despite the Supreme Court guidelines prohibiting such punitive action, has triggered a wave of anxiety and fear across the valley.

In a post on X, Abdullah called for “decisive action against terrorism and its origin” in the aftermath of the terror attack in Pahalgam while underlining that the people of Kashmir “came out freely and spontaneously” against terrorism and “the murder of innocent people”.

“It’s time to build on this support and avoid any misplaced action that alienates people. Punish the guilty, show them no mercy but don’t let innocent people become collateral damage,” Abdullah said, referring to the poignant images of people rendered homeless that have emerged in the aftermath of the demolitions.

Moderate Hurriyat chief Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who is also the chief cleric of Kashmir, also called for bringing the perpetrators of the Pahalgam attack to justice. He, however, said that the “indiscriminate arrests and videos circulating on social media of demolition of houses and neighbourhoods” was “disturbing and distressing”.

“I urge the authorities, that in seeking justice for the innocent victims, [don’t] punish innocent Kashmiri families,” Mirwaiz said.

People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti warned the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government to “tread with caution and carefully distinguish between terrorists and civilians”.

“It must not alienate innocent people, especially those opposing terror. There are reports of thousands being arrested and scores of houses of common Kashmiris being demolished along with those of militants. Appeal government to direct the authorities to take care that innocent people are not made to feel the brunt as alienation aids terrorists goals of division and fear,” the former chief minister said.