V. KAMESWAR RAO, J
 By this order, I shall decide the following two applications
 filed by the plaintiff and defendant No.1. 1. This application has been filed under Order XXXIX Rules 1
 and 2 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure ( CPC ) by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 1 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 the plaintiff in the titled suit bearing CS(OS) No. 190/2022 seeking ad
 interim injunctions against the defendants, restraining the defendants,
 its associates, business partners, legal heirs or any person involved
 with the defendant No. 1 from carrying on any business in
 contravention of the terms of a Non-Disclosure Agreement („NDA‟,
 for short). 2. This application has been filed under Order XXXIX Rule 4 of
 the CPC by the defendant No. 1 in the titled suit bearing CS(OS) No.
 190/2022 to set aside the Order of this Court dated April 04, 2022
 whereby the defendants in the said suit, its associates, business partners
 and employees were restrained from carrying on any business in
 contravention to the aforementioned NDA. 3. For the sake of convenience and brevity, the applicant in IA
 5188/2022 shall be referred to as the „plaintiff‟ and the applicant in IA
 6453/2022 shall be referred to as the „defendant company‟ hereinafter. 4. According to the plaintiff, it is a private limited company
 incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 , engaged in the business
 of providing integrated outsourced technology solutions and field
 services to Banks and other financial institutions to facilitate the
 financial inclusion initiative in India. The plaintiff has over the years
 developed a unique in-house technology in rural banking services by
 providing a fully functional and certified end-to-end system for
 enabling authentication/e-KYC & payments on UIDAI-Aadhaar
 Enabled Payments System (AEPS) platform to financial institutions, as
 well as providing Gold Loan Sourcing. Defendant Nos. 2-20 in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 2 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 original suit had been employed by the plaintiff to carry on its
 business, and for this purpose, certain important trade secrets, business
 connections and confidential information had been disclosed to them.
 The defendants in the suit were also signatories to an NDA, Clause 11
 of which stated that they could not disclose such information to
 anybody for a period of two years from the date of their resignation. In
 December 2020, defendant Nos. 2, 3 and 4 resigned from the plaintiff
 company. Later, in March 2021, it was found that they had setup their
 own firm, i.e., the defendant company and were carrying out similar
 business as rivals to the plaintiff company. It is also stated in the
 application of the plaintiff that defendant Nos. 2, 3 and 4 also lured
 defendants Nos. 5 to 20, who also possessed certain information
 regarding the plaintiff‟s business, to join the defendant company. It is
 the case of the plaintiff that therefore, the defendants in the suit have
 violated the terms of the NDA, as a result of which the plaintiff has
 suffered loss, which is evident from the audit report submitted by it. 5. Subsequently, the plaintiff came to know that the defendant
 company had approached ICICI Bank, who was a regular customer of
 the plaintiff company and was doing business with it. They had also
 influenced defendant Nos. 5-20 in the suit to leave the plaintiff
 company and join them. Thereafter, on August 18, 2021, the plaintiff
 company issued a legal notice to the defendant company demanding
 them stop carrying on any business in competition with the plaintiff
 but the defendant company did not reply to it. Subsequent thereto, the
 plaintiff, alleging that there has been a violation of the NDA, filed the
 titled suit on April 01, 2022 seeking a permanent injunction restraining Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 3 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 the defendants from making any further use of the confidential
 information and trade secrets. During the course of the hearing, this
 Court, vide order dated April 04, 2022 granted an ex-parte ad interim
 injunction to the plaintiff till the next dated of hearing, which position
 still continues. 6. Ms. Shantha Devi Raman, learned counsel appearing for the
 defendant No.1 company (and also for some other defendants) has
 submitted that it has approached ICICI Bank for the purpose of seeking
 business with them through its directors, and not through the
 involvement of defendant Nos. 2 to 20. In any case, the nature of the
 defendant company‟s contracts with ICICI Bank is of an exclusive
 nature and prohibits the defendant company from engaging with other
 companies. Therefore, the question of the defendant company trying to
 exploit the plaintiff‟s contacts by approaching them does not arise.
 Moreover, the Service Provider Agreement between the defendant
 company and ICICI Bank had in no way affected the relation between
 the plaintiff and ICICI Bank, which is still providing services to ICICI
 bank. She has also contended that the defendant Nos. 5-20 had not
 been poached; rather they had approached the defendant company out
 of their own free will without any sort of inducement. It is also stated
 that the defendant company is unaware of any previous employment
 contracts of the impleaded employees, as it is not in its policy to do so.
 It has only sought the resignation certificates of the employees wherein
 it was mentioned that the employees are restrained from disclosing
 sensitive information up to a period of one year. She has stated that
 since the defendant company is not using the clientele or contacts of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 4 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 the employees, the NDA has not been violated. 7. It is further stated that the plaintiff company had alleged that
 defendant No. 4 in the suit holds 4,000 shares of the holding company
 of the defendant, namely Calance Software Limited, and therefore, he
 was indirectly controlling it. However, the shares held by defendant
 No. 4, had been issued to him by the aforementioned company even
 before he had joined the plaintiff. The allegation that the defendant No.
 4 had mala fide resigned from the plaintiff company in order to join a
 rival firm is also baseless. 8. Ms. Raman has stated that there is no privity of contract
 between the plaintiff and the defendant company, as the plaintiff did
 not enter into any contract with the defendant company. Therefore, the
 plaintiff cannot sue the defendant company for any alleged breach of
 contract by its ex-employees. The defendant company, while an
 employer of some of the ex-employees of the plaintiff, at no point has
 ever entered into any contract with it in any fashion. It absolutely is not
 bound by Clause 11 of the NDA between the plaintiff and its ex-
 employees. The locus of the plaintiff exists only with its ex-employees
 and they can only seek redressal of alleged violation of the NDA
 against them and not from the defendant company which is a
 completely unrelated party. There exists no cause of action in favour of
 the plaintiff against the defendant company. Therefore, to halt the
 functioning of the defendant company due to the contractual
 stipulations between the plaintiff and its ex-employees not only is
 prima facie erroneous but also would cause irreparable damages and
 loss to the defendant company. She has also opposed the averment by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 5 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 the plaintiff that defendant company is merely a corporate cloak and
 that defendant Nos. 2-4 are owners of the business. 9. Ms. Raman has also contested the submission of the plaintiff
 that signing the NDA was a precondition for the appointment of the
 defendants in the plaintiff company, as all the employees except
 defendant No.3 received the NDA at the date of their joining.
 Moreover, it is also pointed out that the employees were compelled to
 sign the NDA as they had already left their previous jobs. She has
 relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Superintendence
 Company of India v. Krishan Murgai , (1981) 2 SCC 246 to contend
 that such contracts must be carefully scrutinised. 10. She has further contended that the defendant company has
 already terminated the services of the defendant Nos. 2 to 20 and
 therefore, the working of the company in no way violated the
 injunction order of April 04, 2022, and as such, it must be allowed to
 function. That apart, she has stated that the defendant Nos. 5, 12, 13,
 15 and 20 have also filed their own separate applications under Order
 VII, Rule 11 of the CPC pleading that they were employed at positions
 of very low hierarchy, and as such were not privy to any kind of
 confidential information. In any case, the offer letters received by
 defendant Nos. 2,4,8,9,10,11, on the basis of which they had left their
 previous jobs did not mention any NDA, and as such they should not
 be bound by the NDA. Moreover, even during the resignation, some
 defendants had unambiguously declared that they were joining a rival
 company, yet the plaintiff did not advise them against it. 11. That apart, she stated that the NDA which the plaintiff is using Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 6 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 as the basis for its pleadings have not been signed by majority of the
 defendants including defendant Nos. 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19 and 20, as is evident even from the unsigned NDAs that the plaintiff
 itself has filed along with its plaint, and as such, they could not be
 bound by its terms. It is also stated that the defendant Nos. 14 and 18
 have already left the employment of the defendant No. 1 and rejoined
 the services of the plaintiff. It is also contended that defendant No. 7
 has worked with the plaintiff company for only 19 days, defendant No.
 13 has worked only for 9 months and defendant No. 15 has worked
 only for 4 months. Defendant No. 17 never joined defendant company
 at all. Therefore, the contention of the plaintiff that all these employees
 were key performers of the plaintiff and had access to confidential
 information is false. She has alleged that this misrepresentation and
 concealment has been done to project before this Court that a number
 of employees have left the plaintiff and joined the defendant company
 so as to artificially balloon the magnitude of the alleged injury. 12. That apart, it is also contended that defendant No. 3 had
 resigned from the plaintiff company on January 29, 2021 and had
 joined the defendant company as a consultant only on February 08,
 2022. The resignation certificate of defendant No. 3 was similar to the
 NDA, however, it stipulated that the employee is restricted only for a
 period of one year. It is argued by Ms. Raman that since the
 Resignation Certificate was issued later, it must supersede the
 provisions of the NDA. Therefore, defendant No. 3 had complied with
 the restrictions mandated by the plaintiff. 13. She has further stated that according to Section 27 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 7 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 Indian Contract Act, 1872 , („ Contract Act ‟, hereinafter) agreements in
 restraint of trade are void. Clause 11 of the NDA seeks to impose a
 restriction upon the defendant Nos. 2-20 to seek further employment in
 the future. It is her submission that therefore, this clause should be held
 as void. It is the case of the defendant company that since the plaintiff
 had processed all the exit formalities of the defendants, they had no
 legal liability to adhere to the non-compete clause of the NDA.
 According to her, it is settled law that post-employment restraint on
 employees is impermissible. In this regard, reliance has been placed on
 the judgment of the Supreme Court in Percept D'Mark (India) Pvt.
 Ltd. v. Zaheer Khan , (2006) 4 SCC 227, and the judgments of this
 Court in American Express Bank Ltd. (supra), Modicare Ltd. v.
 Gautam Bali and Ors. , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 10511; EV Motors
 India Pvt. Ltd. v. Anurag Agarwal , 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12373; and Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Bharat Coca-Cola Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. ,
 1999 SCC OnLine Del 530. 14. It is submitted the plaint and even the present application for
 ad interim injunction are liable to be rejected, as the same are vague
 and do not disclose essential aspects regarding what exactly is the
 confidential information, what makes such information confidential,
 how the employees got to know about it and how the defendant
 company has used this information. No material has been placed on
 record to show which piece of information provided by plaintiff was
 classified as 'confidential' which has been misused by the defendants. In this regard, she has referred to the judgment of this Court in the case
 of Transformative Learning Solutions Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Pawajot Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 8 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 Kaur Baweja and Ors. , 2019 SCC Online Del 9229. 15. Ms. Raman has also submitted that the information regarding
 the customer database is not "confidential information", as has been
 claimed by the plaintiff. To buttress her argument, she has relied upon
 the judgments of this Court in the cases of American Express Bank
 Ltd. v. Priya Puri , 2006 SCC OnLine Del 638; Tech Plus Media
 Private Ltd. v. Jyoti Janda and Ors. , 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1819 and
 M/s Stellar Information Technology Private Ltd. v. Rakesh Kumar
 and Ors. , 2016 SCC OnLine Del 4812. In any case, gold loans are
 given only for a period of 5-6 months and most customers do not take
 gold loans twice. Therefore, the customer lists become stale even
 before the compilation is completed. So, the allegation made regarding
 usage of confidential information is baseless. Her contention is that
 information which is available in the public domain and cannot be
 termed as copyright, confidential information or a trade secret.
 Moreover, if a party wants to claim that it has copyright over its data,
 then it must show who the author of the work is. A company, being a
 juristic person, cannot be an author; it can only be an owner. She has
 relied upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Navigators
 Logistics Ltd. v. Kashif Qureshi and Ors. , 2018 SCC OnLine Del
 11321 to submit that if employees in the course of their employment
 has come to know about important information without any special
 effort, they would not be deemed to be holders of trade secrets or
 confidential information. 16. The allegation that the defendant company had poached the
 clients of the plaintiff has been vehemently denied. In the Gold Loan Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 9 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 Sourcing business, all information regarding clients is retained only by
 the Bank and not by the Direct Selling Agent („DSA‟, for short), i.e.,
 the plaintiff company. Even the information regarding the interest rate,
 gold rate, percentage of loan against mortgage gold and percentage of
 commission is not permitted to be retained by the DSA. Therefore, the
 plaintiff cannot claim that it has confidential information regarding the
 business with it. In other words, it is the case of the defendant
 company that Gold Loan Sourcing does not involve the creation of any
 confidential information. Moreover, contrary to what has been averred
 in the plaint, the plaintiff has not developed any software or technology
 for the conduct of its business. 17. That apart, it is her contention that there is no uniqueness in
 the product of the plaintiff as has been claimed. It has been unable to
 prove that the defendant company has acquired and has been using the
 so called confidential information. Mere hiring of ex-employees of the
 plaintiff does not give the defendant company access to any
 confidential information. Moreover, the plaintiff during its inception
 itself had taken its top managerial personnel from an established
 company namely M/s. Fino Pvt. Ltd. Therefore, it cannot be allowed to
 raise the present claim against the defendant company. 18. It is the submission of Ms. Raman that there is no urgency
 shown by the plaintiff to warrant any injunction from this Court and
 there would be no irreparable loss to the plaintiff by the conduct of
 defendant company. The plaintiff came to know about the employment
 of its ex-employees with the defendant company in March 2021. It was
 only after five long months from the date of the knowledge that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 10 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 plaintiff issued a legal notice on August 18, 2021. Finally, it is after a
 further lapse of seven months, that the plaintiff instituted the present
 suit on April 01, 2022. Therefore, as per the judgment of the Supreme
 Court in M/s Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise Limited and Ors. v. KS
 Infraspace LLP Limited and Ors., Civil Appeal No. 7843/2019, no
 temporary injunction could be granted. Further, the balance of
 convenience does not lie in favour of the plaintiff as losses, if any,
 caused to it by the conduct of the defendant company, can be
 compensated in monetary terms. 19. It is submitted that the reliance placed by the plaintiff upon the
 Audited Balance Sheets is completely misfounded as those accounts
 pertain to the year 2019-20, which is much before the time when
 defendant company started its operation (2021-22). Moreover, the
 Audited Balance Sheets contain the data of multiple business of the
 plaintiff and not just the Gold Loan Sourcing business. The plaintiff
 had already been witnessing a downward plunge in its businesses much
 before the incorporation of the defendant company, therefore, the loss
 cannot be attributed to the defendant company. 20. She has also submitted that the judgment in M/s Gujarat
 Bottling Company Ltd. & Ors. v. Coca Cola Co., & Ors. , 1995 SCC
 (5) 545, as referred to in the Order of this Court dated April 04, 2022 is
 not applicable to the facts of the present case, inasmuch as in
 paragraph 42 therein on which reliance has been placed by the plaintiff
 to pray for grant of an injunction, it was stated that the position in
 England was that a breach of a negative covenant would warrant
 injunction. However, the position in India is different, as here, "an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 11 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 injunction to enforce a negative covenant would be refused if it would
 indirectly compel an employee either to idleness or to serve the
 employer". She seeks prayers as made in her application. 21. Mr. Jayant Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 plaintiff has submitted that the defendant company has still not
 complied with the order dated April 04, 2022 of this Court. It is still
 continuing to run its business through its associate company M/s
 Loansi Consultants Pvt. Ltd. This company has already done a
 business of approximately ₹70 crore with ICICI Bank in the months of
 May, June and July 2022. It is his submission that there is an urgent
 need of restraining the defendant company from continuing on its
 business in order to safeguard the interests of the plaintiff. He has
 placed reliance in this regard on the judgment of this Court in the case
 of Oravel Stays Pvt. Ltd. v. Kota Hotels Federation , 2020 SCC
 OnLine Del 2363. 22. In reply to the application filed by the defendant company, he
 stated, it is settled law that such an application is permissible only if in
 the application seeking temporary injunction or in the affidavit
 supporting such application, a party has made false and misleading
 statements in respect to a material particular and injunction was
 granted without notice to the opposite party. This principle was
 reiterated by this Court in an order dated February 21, 2022 passed in
 the case of Bank of Baroda v. Union Bank of India and Ors., (CM
 Appl. No. 4514/2022). No such false/misleading statement has been
 pointed out by the defendant company in the present case. 23. Further, he submitted that it was not merely the directors of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 12 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 the defendant who had approached ICICI Bank soliciting business,
 rather the same had been done in connivance with and using the
 confidential information provided by defendants Nos. 2, 3 and 4.
 Further, the plea taken by the defendant company that it cannot engage
 in any other transactions is completely wrong as no proof of the said
 agreement with ICICI Bank has been placed on record. Therefore, no
 inference can be said to be made regarding the nature of work or
 whether even such an agreement exists. 24. It is also submitted that defendant Nos. 2-4 had convinced the
 ex-employees of the plaintiff to opt out of the company and join the
 defendant. He has referred to an email dated December 23, 2021,
 wherein, according to him the poaching of the clients of the plaintiffs
 was mentioned and admitted by the defendants. Moreover, he has
 refuted the assertion that defendant No. 3 did not occupy any important
 position within the company and was only a consultant, as the affidavit
 filed by the defendant in its application has been affirmed by him.
 Upon lifting the corporate veil of the defendant company, it would also
 be clear that it is run by defendant Nos. 2, 3 and 4. 25. Further, he has submitted that the defendant company was
 fully aware about the employment contracts of the impleaded
 employees and therefore, their appointment was not done in good faith.
 He has also contested the submission of Ms. Raman that the defendant
 has its own technical knowhow and clientele. He has claimed that the
 defendant company has directed the ex-employees of the plaintiff to
 disclose their own trade secrets and confidential information. 26. Mr. Mehta has stated that the restrictions imposed by the NDA Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 13 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 are reasonable as they do not restrict the trade operations of the
 defendants in the suit, but are only there to safeguard the plaintiff‟s
 confidential information. Regarding the contention that post-
 termination restraint is void, he has stated that even according to the
 judgments submitted by Ms. Raman, only those restrictions that are too
 wide are hit by Section 27 of the Contract Act. He has placed reliance
 upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Niranjan Shankar
 Golikari v. Century Spinning and Mfg. Co. Ltd. , (1967) 2 SCR 378,
 to contend that a negative covenant cannot be taken as a direct restraint
 on trade unless such a covenant is unconscionable, excessively harsh
 or unreasonable. Since in the present case, the NDA imposes only
 reasonable restrictions on the employees, it cannot be held as void
 under Section 27 of the Contract Act. He has also contended that the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Percept D'Mark (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) relied upon by Ms. Raman is not applicable as it deals with a
 right to first refusal while in the present case, there is an NDA clause. 27. Regarding the contention of Ms. Raman that customer lists do
 not constitute confidential information, Mr. Mehta has stated that
 confidential information is anything for which the maker of the
 document has used his brain and produced a result which can only be
 produced by someone who goes through the same process, and would
 include client lists. To fortify this argument, he has referred to the
 judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of Anindya
 Mukherjee v. Clean Coats Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai , 2011 (1) Mh.LJ 573.
 The present case at hand involves data which is not available in the
 public domain and is unique inasmuch as it is available with the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 14 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 plaintiff company only. He submitted that therefore, this plea of Ms.
 Raman should be rejected. He has sought to distinguish the judgments
 of this Court in Navigators Logistics Ltd. (supra) and American
 Express Bank Ltd. (supra) by stating that in those cases, the
 information claimed to be confidential was available in public domain. Further, he has relied upon the judgment in Vogueserv International
 Pvt. Ltd. v. Rajesh Gosain and Ors. , 2013 (137) DRJ 244, to contend
 that compilation of clients database would amount to confidential
 information and that the onus to show that such database is not
 confidential lies with the defendant, which it has evidently failed to
 prove. 28. An affidavit has been filed on behalf of the plaintiff wherein it
 is stated that the defendants No. 2 to 20 were privy to the following
 confidential data:- 29. Mr. Mehta has also contended that defendant Nos. 2-20
 resigning in a quite close time frame and receiving offer letters from
 the defendant company at the same time is not a mere coincidence. The
 defendants have deliberately tried to cover their wrongs by shielding
 the defendant company as a corporate cloak. He has argued that
 reliance was misplaced on the judgment in EV Motors India Private
 Limited (supra), as in that case , only one Director had resigned and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 15 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 joined a rival company, while here a number of employees have done
 so in quick succession. 30. It is his submission that according to the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in K.K. Modi Investment & Financial Services Pvt.
 Ltd. v. Apollo International Inc. , 2014 SCC OnLine Del 2200, the
 implied conduct of the defendants extended the privity of the contract
 to include them also. Therefore, in this case, the defendant company
 can also be made privy to the contract as it is merely a corporate cloak
 which has been used by defendant Nos. 2-20 to circumvent the
 contract. He has also alleged that the sole purpose of defendant Nos. 1
 to 4 was only extract the knowledge and experience gained by the
 employees of the plaintiff company and to develop an identical system
 for Gold Loan Sourcing. 31. That apart, Mr. Mehta has submitted that the judgments relied
 by Ms. Raman in Modicare Limited (supra), Transformative
 Learning Solution Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra) are
 not applicable as the plaintiff‟s case is not that the defendants cannot
 be engaged in another venture, but only that they cannot be allowed to
 use the confidential information of the plaintiff. He seeks prayers as
 made in his application. CONCLUSION:- 32. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused
 the record, as these applications are concerning the order dated April
 04, 2022 of which vacation is being sought by the defendant No.1, I
 deem it appropriate to reproduce the relevant part of the order as under: 6. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff also refers to
 offer of employment given to some of its existing employees
 purporting as if they had applied and even appeared for
 interview. However, it is submitted that said employees had
 neither applied nor left the services of the plaintiff. 7. It is contended that the defendants are continuously
 engaging not only in poaching the employees of the plaintiff,
 but also soliciting the identified clients of the plaintiff. 8. Learned senior counsel relies on the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in M/s. Gujarat Potteling Company Ltd. &
 Ors. Vs. Coca Cola Co. & Ors. , 1995 (5) SCC 545 to
 contend that in the matter of grant of injunction, where a
 contract contains a negative covenant, the breach of it
 would be restrained by injunction and injunction is
 normally granted as a matter of course even though the
 remedy is equitable and discretionary one. xxx xxx xxx 12. I am of the view that plaintiffs have made out a prima
 facie case for grant of an ad-interim injunction, balance of
 convenience is also in their favour and in case injunction is
 not granted, plaintiffs are likely to suffer irreparable loss
 and injury. Accordingly, till the next date of hearing,
 defendants, its associates, business partners and employees
 are restrained from carrying out any business in
 contravention to the terms of the nondisclosure agreement,
 particularly, para 11 extracted hereinabove." 33. A perusal of the order would reveal that the case set up by the
 plaintiff in the suit against the defendants herein is on the basis of a
 stipulation in the offer of employment with respect to some of the
 defendants, which stated that for a period of two years of termination
 of service, they shall not engage in any „prohibited activity‟ like solicit,
 divert or take away client or any client prospect, officer, employees or
 the Directors of the plaintiff company. It is the case of the plaintiff
 that the defendants are not only poaching its employees but also
 soliciting the identified clients of the plaintiff. 34. On the other hand, the argument of Ms. Raman in support of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 19 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 her application for vacation of order dated April 04, 2022 are the
 following: 35. Having noted the broad submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties, the issue which arises for consideration in these
 applications is whether the plaintiff can seek implementation of the
 NDA against the defendant company or for that matter against other
 defendants as well, so as to restrict them from carrying out any
 business / activity in violation of the terms of NDA, particularly clause
 11 thereof which is reproduced hereunder:- as defined below. "Prohibited Activities", as used herein,
 shall mean owning, managing, operating, controlling, being
 employed by, acting as an independent contractor or agent
 or consultant for, participating in or being connected in any
 manner, with the ownership, management, operation or
 control of any relating to or capable of relating to the
 Business of the First Party or its clients or related business: 36. To answer this question, it is necessary to examine the stand of
 the plaintiff as to what according to it constitutes confidential data /
 information which the defendants cannot use while carrying out any
 business activity. 37. According to Mr. Mehta, the same include customer data,
 agent data, contract data, employee data, market data and business
 plans. 38. I may at the outset state here that the plaintiff is not claiming
 any copyright in the above information. It is only claiming that the
 data is confidential. Even if such an argument was to be raised, the
 question would be whether the above information shall fall within the
 definition of copyright as defined under Section 13(1) of the Copyright
 Act. This Court in a series of judgments including the judgment in the
 case of Navigators Logistics Ltd. (supra), has in paragraphs 22 to 35,
 by referring to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Eastern Book
 Company v. DB Modak , (2008) 1 SCC 1, held that to claim copyright,
 the author must produce the material created with exercise of his skill
 and judgment, which must not be so trivial that it would be
 characterised as a purely mechanical exercise. The Court was of the
 opinion that the plaintiff therein, being a juristic person is incapable of
 being the author of any literary work in which a copyright may exist,
 though it may be the owner of copyright. As the plaintiff had failed to
 disclose the identity of the author, it could not claim any copyright in a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 23 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 list of customers/clients with their contact numbers. 39. Even the plea of confidentiality taken by Mr. Mehta is
 unsustainable, as merely stating that there exists some confidential and
 secret information does not convince this Court that such information
 is, in fact confidential, more so, when the plaint and the pleadings do
 not disclose the nature of the information / data of which
 confidentiality is claimed. I find that no material / document
 connected with the aforesaid data / information has been filed by the
 plaintiff. In fact this aspect has been accepted by Mr. Mehta during his
 submissions. 40. It is for the first time that the plaintiff, through an affidavit
 filed on July 21, 2022, sought to refer the aforesaid information as
 confidential without filing it. As per its own case, the plaintiff is
 engaged in providing gold loans. It is the information related to such
 loans, like customer data, agent data, contract data, employee data,
 market data etc. for which confidentiality is being claimed. The
 plaintiff is not engaged in any research work, the result whereof can be
 said to have been achieved through its own skill and judgment. It is an
 accepted case that many entities are carrying out similar business
 activity. It is not pleaded as to how the confidentiality claimed is
 different from the data of any entity engaged in similar business. 41. It has not been filed nor shown to the satisfaction of this Court,
 as to what exactly is the confidential information, how it is
 confidential, and how, if at all, the defendant company has used such
 information to the detriment of the plaintiff. 42. In the absence of any material on record, it is difficult for the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 24 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 defendants to meet the case of the plaintiff and for that matter for this
 Court to accept the plea of the plaintiff. Based on such vague
 assertions, interim order as sought for cannot be granted. Even if any
 such order has been granted, its continuance cannot be sustained. 43. The Coordinate Bench of this Court in Navigators Logistics
 Ltd. (supra) has in paragraphs 41 to 47 by referring to various
 judgments in the cases of Star India Pvt. Ltd. v. Laxmiraj Seetharam
 Nayak , 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 27, Ambiance India (Private) Ltd. v.
 Naveen Jain, 2005 SCC OnLine Del 367, Stellar Information
 Technology Private Ltd. (supra) and American Express Bank Ltd. (supra) held as under: (emphasis supplied) 44. A reading of the above reproduced paragraphs would reveal
 that not every customer/client list would qualify as confidential
 information or trade secret unless the confidentiality about it is of
 economic/business/commercial value. It is held that in any
 employment, every employee would get to know some information
 without any special effort. All such persons cannot be said to be in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 29 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 knowledge of trade secrets or confidential information and every
 knowledge of such facts cannot be labeled as trade secret or
 confidential information. If an employee on account of his
 employment has gathered some business knowledge/acumen or ways
 of dealing with clients, the same would not be termed as confidential
 information, disclosure of which would harm the plaintiff. Unless there
 is some material on record to show that the defendant had come to
 know of any confidential information / trade secret concerning the
 plaintiff and its business, no injunction can be granted, more so when
 such trade secret / confidential information have not even been spelt
 out. The learned Single Judge, referring to the decision in American
 Express Bank (supra) has observed that a competitor even after
 knowing which particular entity/an individual/person is currently in
 business with, can approach such individual/person to canvas about
 itself, and it is for the customer to decide which business/entity to
 choose. Creating a database of clients/customers and then claiming
 confidentiality on it does not create a monopoly over such customers.
 That apart, even if a person has amassed knowledge with regard to the
 plaintiff‟s plan of operation, he could not be injuncted from disclosing
 such plans to the competitor, if he has carried such plans in his head
 and even the competitor could not be said to be driven by such
 disclosure alone. I agree with the aforesaid conclusion arrived at by the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court. 45. One of the pleas of Ms. Raman was that in view of Section 27 of the Contract Act, Clause 11 of the NDA is void. It was the case of
 Ms. Raman that this Clause mentioned in the agreement was executed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 30 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 only by some of the defendants and not all. In any case, such a
 stipulation in the NDA which restricts the post employment
 opportunities shall be barred by Section 27 of the Act as held in Percept D'Mark (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) wherein the Supreme Court
 refused to enforce such post employment restriction on the ground that
 the same is barred by Section 27 of the Act. The said Clause attempts
 to restrict activities with any existing client relationship or potential
 client relationship or to attempt to solicit, divert, or take away, any
 client prospect / client of the plaintiff. So, in effect, the clause puts a
 restriction on some of the defendants to carry out the activities referred
 to above . Such a stipulation is void. 46. In a recent opinion, in Modicare Ltd. (supra) a Coordinate
 Bench of this Court while considering a similar issue has in paragraphs
 24, 29 to 34 and 36 to 41 held as under: 47. A perusal of the above would show that the Court has opined
 that the right saved by Section 27 of the Contract Act is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution, and such right of the defendants cannot
 be defeated by stating, they are enticing the clients or interfering with
 the business. It is held any new entrant in the market, to be able to
 create a name and niche for itself, will have to compete with the
 existing prayers by approaching the same customers and the same
 cache of employees who have gained knowledge and experience in the
 field concerned. No line can be drawn between such
 employees/customers approaching the new entrant and the new entrant
 approaching them. It would be virtually impossible to determine what
 caused the breach of the existing contract between an employee and his
 employer, for him to enter into a new contract with the competitor, i.e.,
 whether it was on his own volition or on being enticed by the new
 entrant. Ultimately, it was held that a claim founded on unlawful
 interference with business or breach of contract with the plaintiff Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 36 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 would not be enforceable in a Court of law. 48. I am of the view the issue which arises for consideration in the
 application under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC is squarely covered by
 the above judgment, inasmuch as the ground of unlawful interference
 with the business or breach of contract with plaintiff is not enforceable
 and the injunction sought by the plaintiff as granted by this Court on
 April 04, 2022 is liable to be vacated. 49. Now coming to the judgments relied upon by Mr. Mehta,
 insofar as the judgment in Oravel Stays Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is concerned,
 the suit therein was filed for injunction against the defendant No.1 and
 its officers including defendant Nos.2 and 3 for deliberately,
 unlawfully and wrongfully causing interference with the plaintiff‟s
 business. I find that despite notice, the defendants were not
 represented and were proceeded ex-parte. 50. The facts in that suit are that the plaintiff by way of an
 agreement was permitted by the hotelier/service provider to have full
 control over pricing and any booking brought in by the hotel. The
 agreement also gave the plaintiff full authority to determine and
 publish room tariffs on its website and/or mobile application as per
 dynamic pricing module. Through the agreement, the service
 provider/hotelier agreed to abide by the standard quality of rooms and
 promised services to its guests. The agreement also allowed both the
 parties to address issues arising under the contract and to amicably
 resolve the same. The defendant No. 1 was a federation claiming to
 represent the interest of the hoteliers based in Kota, Rajasthan who
 were also associated with various online booking portals including the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 37 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 plaintiff. It was the case of the plaintiff in the suit that the hotel owners
 who entered into the agreement with the plaintiff had connived with
 defendant No.1 and were not accepting bookings made through the
 plaintiff‟s online platform/mobile application, thereby failing to abide
 by the contract and amicably resolve the issues. The hoteliers had
 neither terminated the agreement nor had they sought any modification
 of the terms. Defendant No.1 and its officers were emboldening and
 persuading the hoteliers to boycott the plaintiff and refuse to honor the
 bookings made through the plaintiffs' portal. It was their case that the
 defendant No.1 was also colluding with other associations and
 encouraging them to come forward to protest against the plaintiff to
 fulfill their unwarranted, illegal demands thereby bringing plaintiffs
 business to complete halt. 51. The Court was of the view that on the basis of the documents
 enclosed with the plaint along with the necessary certificate, the
 plaintiff had clearly made out a case for grant of injunction in terms of
 prayer (a) and (c) as the defendants had not only caused considerable
 loss to the plaintiff's business but also caused inconvenience to public
 at large and prejudice in the mind of the consumers. Accordingly, the
 prayers in terms of prayer (a) and (c) was granted. 52. This Court is of the view that the judgment being ex-parte has
 no applicability on the facts of the present case, more so in view of my
 findings in paragraphs 37 to 47 above. 53. The defendant company and other defendants cannot be
 restrained from carrying out the activities / trade similar to the one
 being carried out by the plaintiff. 54. Insofar as the judgment in the case of Niranjan Shankar
 Golikari (supra) is concerned , the said judgment was considered by
 the Coordinate Bench of this Court in Navigators Logistics Ltd. (supra) and in paragraph 53 had held as under: It is clear from the above that this Court held it was in the facts of that
 case that the Supreme Court restrained the employees who were
 trained and acquired knowledge be restrained from joining the
 competitors. The judgment is clearly distinguishable. 55. Similarly, insofar as the judgment in the case of Anindya
 Mukherjee (supra) relied upon by Mr. Mehta to counter the
 submission of Ms. Raman that customer list does not constitute
 confidential information and that the maker of the documents has used Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 39 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 his brain and that the data is not available in public domain and is
 available with the plaintiff company, is not appealing and is misplaced,
 as nothing has been placed on record for this Court to consider and
 ascertain whether such information is available in the public domain or
 not. 56. Suffice to state, in Navigators Logistics Ltd. (supra) the
 Coordinate Bench of this Court in paragraph 30 has held as under: Accordingly, it was held that copy edited judgments would
 not satisfy the copyright merely by establishing amount of
 skill, labour and capital put in the inputs of the copy edited
 judgments as the original or innovative thoughts for the
 creativity are completely excluded. Notice in Tech Plus
 Media Private Ltd. was also taken of Emergent Genetics
 India Pvt. Ltd. v. Shailendra Shivam , 2011 (47) PTC 494. Reliance in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. was also placed
 on Dr. Reckeweg & Co. GMBH v. Adven Biotech Private Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 40 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 Ltd., 2008 (38) PTC 308 (Del), wherein, dealing with the
 issue of copyright in a compilation in a brochure, of
 nomenclature of drugs, the listing of the medicines in a
 particular fashion, the description and the curative effect,
 the principle of law enunciated by the Supreme Court in Eastern Book Company supra was applied. It was held that
 no copyright subsists therein in the absence of employment
 of any skill judgment and labour in compilation thereof. It
 was further held that without specifically averring as to the
 manner/technique/criteria employed in such
 sequencing/collection and the originality in the same, the
 plaintiff could not succeed in its claim. It was yet further
 held that the compilation in that case was a derivative work
 in the sense of being a collection of sequencing of already
 existing information and did not satisfy the standard of
 creativity required to qualify as a work in which copyright
 subsists. It was explained that the standard of creativity
 required in such derivative work is higher than the standard
 required in cases of primary works. Resultantly, the plaint
 in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. was rejected." (emphasis supplied) 57. I agree with the conclusion of the Court that a client list cannot
 be construed as confidential information to claim any right. The
 judgment relied upon has no applicability. 58. Similarly, the reliance placed by Mr. Mehta on the judgment in Vogueserv International Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is also misplaced in view of
 the clear conclusion of the Coordinate Bench of this Court in Navigators Logistics Ltd. (supra) with which I concur. 59. Insofar as the judgment in the case of K.K. Modi Investment &
 Financial Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is concerned, the same was relied
 upon by Mr. Mehta to contend that the defendant company can also be
 made privy to the contract as it is merely a corporate cloak being used Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 41 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 by the defendants to circumvent the contract. In other words, it is his
 plea that the sole intent of the defendant Nos.1 to 4 was only extract
 the knowledge and experience gained by the employees of the plaintiff
 company and to develop an identical system for Gold Loan Sourcing.
 This plea is not at all appealing. There is nothing on record to show
 that the defendants have approached the plaintiff‟s customers or they
 are using any propriety information of the plaintiff. The defendants
 also cannot be prevented from using the experience and knowledge
 gained by them during the course of their employment with the
 plaintiff. 60. That apart, the nature of functions being discharged by the
 defendant Nos.2 to 20 does not appear to be technical in nature. In
 other words, they were not involved in technical operation which they
 would have removed or copied through a technical process. In any
 case, the prima facie the plaintiff has not been able to establish or
 indicate any propriety right on the above data / information which is
 said to being used by the defendants. Though, an argument is taken
 that the restriction to carry business based on confidential information,
 the alleged confidentiality is for a limited time and the same is
 enforceable is also not acceptable. There is nothing in the wording of
 Section 27 to suggest so. 61. Suffice to state, a contract in restriction of trade is void unless
 a particular contract can be distinguished and brought within the
 Exception 1 to Section 27 of the Contract Act, to show that there is no
 scope for the prohibition. 62. Insofar as the reliance placed by Mr. Mehta on the judgment in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 42 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 M/s Gujarat Bottling Company Ltd. & Ors. (supra) is concerned, I
 agree with the submission made by Ms. Raman that the said judgment shall not be applicable in the facts of this case, inasmuch as in
 paragraph 42 therein, it was stated that the position in England was that
 a breach of negative covenant would warrant injunction. However, the
 position in India is different as here; an injunction to enforce a negative
 covenant would be refused if it would indirectly compel the employee
 either to idleness or to serve the employer, as has been noted by this
 Court in paragraph 31 of Modicare Ltd. (supra). 63. A plea was also raised by Mr. Mehta in support of his
 submission that the interim order granted by this Court in favour of the
 plaintiff on April 04, 2022 should not be vacated as no false /
 misleading statements have been pointed out by the defendant
 company in the present case. The said submission is totally misplaced.
 It is erroneous to say that only if false / misleading statements have
 been made by the party to get an interim order, shall the same be
 vacated. It goes without saying that if the interim relief sought by a
 party is contrary to the settled position of law, even if the same has
 been granted, it can be vacated. It is one such case herein, as is clear
 from my conclusion above that the plaintiff has not made out any case
 for continuance of the interim order granted on April 04, 2022. Though
 in support of his submission, Mr. Mehta has relied upon an order in the
 case of Bank of Baroda v. Union Bank of India and Ors., CM APPL.
 4514/2022, but no such order has been placed on record by the plaintiff
 to enable this Court deal with the same. 64. I may also state that Mr. Mehta has placed on record the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 43 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17 judgment of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Lindsay
 International Pvt. Ltd. (supra). However it is not clear for what
 proposition of law/ argument the said judgment has been relied upon,
 as I find no reference to the said judgment in the plaint, application or
 written submissions. 65. In the end, I must state that Mr. Mehta has contested the
 applicability of all the judgments so relied upon by Ms. Raman. In
 view of my above conclusion, the judgments relied upon by Ms.
 Raman have applicability to the facts of this case. Hence, the
 contention needs to be rejected. 66. The reliance placed by Ms. Raman on Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra), Superintendence Co. of India (supra) and EV Motors India
 Pvt. Ltd. (supra), may not be gone into, in view of my discussion
 above, both on facts and in law. 67. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that
 the application filed by the defendant No.1 (and argued by Ms. Raman
 who appeared for some other defendants) being I.A. 6453/2022 needs
 to be accepted. The interim order dated April 04, 2022 is liable to be
 vacated. The application filed by the plaintiff being I.A. 5188/2022 is
 dismissed. It is ordered accordingly. 68. List the pending applications for hearing on December 12,
 2022. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 AUGUST 17, 2022/aky Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANIL KUMAR YADAV CS(OS) 190/2022 Page 44 of 44 Signing Date:20.08.2022 12:39:17