SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why Are There So Many Tourists Scams in India? People Have Been Trying to Rob Me From the Moment I Landed. Is Everyone a Thief?
DATE: 2023-06-18
SCORE: 866
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14c9e2t/why_are_there_so_many_tourists_scams_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am traveling around India with my 16-year-old son, and I can't believe how many times people have aggressively scammed or tried to scam us in the past three weeks.

First off, I love India. This is my second time visiting, and despite the bad actors, we're having a great trip, and I love shooting videos here.

The amount of beggars and small-time scams seems relatively typical, such as doubling a tuk-tuk fare mid-ride, charging higher amounts to foreigners, etc. However, I've never experienced anything remotely close to the larger scams that have happened to us in just three weeks while visiting India.

Quick background. I have a small YouTube channel focused on international travel. I've been to 57 countries and counting. I mention this because I wouldn't consider myself another naive tourist. 

SCAM ONE

We arrived in India at 2:00 am. We cleared customs, grabbed our luggage, and exited the airport. A younger well-spoken, well-dressed man was arranging cabs for arriving passengers. We accepted his services, agreed on a price for a ride to our hotel, and got into a very nice car.

The driver pulled onto a blocked road when we got near our hotel. He claimed a broken water pipe, and we couldn't reach our hotel. He then dialed a number on his phone and handed it to me. They answered with the name of my hotel and, through our conversation, explained that they had canceled all reservations due to the broken water pipe.

I knew they were lying. I could see multiple other routes to the hotel, but the driver refused to take us. Instead, he insisted on another hotel. 

We ended up grabbing our luggage and headed out on foot. It was 4:00 am, and I was walking through Old Delhi with my young son. It was not the position I wanted to be in. 

We arrived at our hotel, and of course, everything was fine. Welcome to India.

SCAM TWO

We needed to hire a car to take us from Delhi to Jaipur. Because of the previous issues with a driver, I used Uber. The quoted fare was about 4,200 rupees. That seemed reasonable.

I don't know how it works for locals, but as a foreigner, Uber requires me to pay cash to the driver. There is no option to pay through the app. I thought no big deal.

When we arrived in Jaipur, the driver told me I owed 6,000 rupees. I showed him the app that said I owed him 4,200. 

He didn't speak English, even though his profile said he did, so there was no way to communicate with him. 

In the end, I paid him the extra money. He was threatening to drive off with our luggage if I didn't. Lesson learned—no more Ubers in India.

SCAM THREE

My son and I arrived back in Delhi on an overnight sleeper from Varanasi. Our goal was to continue North and eventually end up in Shimla. 

Having spent the last 14 hours on a bus, I decided to hire a car again to drive us to Chandigarh, where we'd stay the night and continue in the morning.

We were on Main Bazar Road looking for a place to have breakfast when we came across a travel agency that was open early. We went in and spoke to the agent about hiring a car.

He was incredibly friendly, well-spoken, and very eager to help. He arranged for a car to take us for 5,000 rupees.

We then got into a discussion about Shimla. After asking some questions about what we were interested in, he began to talk about Dharamshala being a better fit for us. Everything he said made sense, and I was grateful for the information.

He then offered to book our bus from Chandigarh to Dharamsala, our hotel there, and our return bus to Delhi for an additional 15,000 rupees.

I declined the hotel but asked him for a quote for just the buses. Even though I've booked buses in India, I felt obligated due to all the information he gave us.

He quoted us an extra 7,000 bringing the total to 12,000 rupees for a private car to Chandigarh, a bus from Chandigarh to Dharamshala, and finally, a bus back to Delhi.

The bus prices was a little high (7,000 rupees), but I agreed. It was my way of saying thank you for all the information he gave us.

I only had 9,000 rupees on me, and the driver was waiting. He told me to pay the driver the balance of 3,000 and that he would send the bus tickets via WhatsApp. He then wrote and signed a receipt that I had paid the total amount and gave it to me.

Everything seemed fine. The agent seemed trustworthy; I had a signed receipt and still owed a balance of 3,000 rupees.

We arrive in Chandigarh, and I still don't have the bus tickets. No problem, he probably got busy, and worst-case scenario, I leverage the remaining 3,000 until I get them. Wrong!!!

It turns out the driver still needed to be paid, and he was expecting the 3,000 as his fee from me. When I explained that I had already paid for the car, the driver became furious and intimidating. He refused to give us our luggage. Again, he spoke no English.

Do I call the police? How do I stop him from driving off? I saw no option other than to pay.

Fast forward to the following day. After numerous texts and my threatening to go to the police with a video of his aggressive driver (which doesn't exist), the agent finally sent a ticket confirmation for a bus leaving at 12:40 am the next day.

The bus never shows. The text looked legit. It had confirmation numbers, seat assignments, links to the Zingbus website, the bus driver's phone (it didn't work), and a bus tracking link (it didn't work). 

We ended up hiring another bus at 2:45 am.

We arrive in Dharamshala. Beautiful, by the way. I love it here. Anyways, I'm still not realizing the ticket was fake. I assumed the links and numbers didn't work because of my foreign phone service.

I texted the agent; he said that's impossible, that the bus didn't show, and that he would look into it. I never get an answer.

A day passes, and I still need a ticket for our return bus to Delhi. I started asking and again had to threaten police involvement for him to send me a ticket.

He sends a text of the ticket in the same format as before. Suspicious, I go to the Zingbus website and find that the bus does exist. However, the seats on the text are still bookable. I screenshot it and send it to the agent. 

He swears up and down that it's booked. I ask for an actual ticket, a pdf, a screenshot, or anything besides the text. He tells me it is no problem; he'll send it shortly when he gets to the office.

It never comes all day, so I book my own tickets because I can't risk missing my flight home. I also make it clear that I have all the documentation (screenshots, texts) and will go to the police.

He sent a pdf late that night. Of course, the seats differ from his original text, proving the first tickets were fake.

Here are my questions. Is it worth going to the police/tourist police? Are all travel agencies on Main Bazar Road thieves, or is it just Travel N Adventure Agency across from the Comfort Stay Hostel?