1. This is the first application preferred by the applicant under Section
 438 of Cr.P.C. wherein he is apprehending his arrest in Crime No.21/2022
 registered at Police Station Dinara District Shivpuri for offence under Sections
 429 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 469 , 470 , 471 , 201 of IPC and Sections 25 , 27 of Arms Act. 2. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that false case has been
 registered against him and he is apprehending his arrest on the basis of offences
 referred above. It is submitted that other co-accused Himanshu Sharma and
 Vinod have been enlarged on bail and case of applicant is akin to those co- accused. Applicant has no concern with the present case. Further some of the
 witnesses who have been examined before the trial Court, did not support the
 story of prosecution and declared hostile. Confinement would bring social
 disrepute and personal inconvenience to him. He undertakes to cooperate in the
 investigation/trial and keep himself available as and when required. He would
 not be source of harassment and embarrassment in any manner to the
 complainant. Under these grounds, he prayed for bail. 3. Learned counsel for the respondent/State opposed the prayer and
 submitted that it is the case where hundreds of forged Adhar Cards and Sim
 Cards have been recovered. Those Sims cards have been sold to the different

 persons in Haryana, Delhi and in other States. Investigation is still going on and
 incidentally one co-accused Pramod destroyed the Adhar Cards and Sim Cards
 just to make the case difficult for investigating officer to complete the chain.
 Adhar Cards have been sent for forensic examination recently, therefore, the
 forensic report is awaited in the case. It is further submitted that seizure is yet to
 be made from the possession of present applicant and custodial interrogation
 cannot be ruled out in view of the nature of allegations against the applicant.
 Thus, prayed for dismissal of this application. 4. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the case
 diary. 5. Applicant seeks parity vis-a-vis Himanshu Sharma and Vinod but on
 close scrutiny it appears that they have suffered sufficient period of custody
 and rigours of investigation and after investigation being carried out in respect
 of role of those accused, they were granted benefit of bail. In the present case,
 applicant is seeking anticipatory bail and investigation in respect of applicant is
 yet to be carried out. 6. When investigation about the role of the applicant and involvement at
 his instance of other accused is to be carried out by the police then in that
 condition he cannot be granted anticipatory bail. Even otherwise as referred
 earlier all accused have participated in investigation while in confinement and
 then enlarged on bail. Case is of wider amplitude and connotation. Recently
 application of one of the co-accused Kadam Singh Yadav has also been
 dismissed. Applicant has to participate in investigation and trial. One of the co-
 accused is still absconding. 7. This is a case where allegations against the applicant are serious in
 nature. Some of the co-accused used to prepare forged Adhar Cards and those
 Adhar Cards were sold to different persons and on the basis of those Adhar
 Cards, Sim Cards were taken by the accused persons from service provider
 and those Sim Cards were sold to different persons of different States.
 Particulars of Adhar Cards/Sim Cards seized from possession of different
 accused persons are as under: Mithun Jha : Dell Lap Top, Printer, Data Cable and
 Katta. 8. Independent role of the accused may vary but collectively their role
 appears to be challenging and having wider ramifications in respect of national Signature Not Verified Signed by: VISHAL UPADHYAY Signing time: 13-04-2024 03:54:13 PM 4 security and cyber crime. These Adhar Cards and Sim Cards can be used in
 NDPS offences, Terrorism related Activities, Cyber Frauds for Kidnapping and
 Ransom purposes and for offence of grievous denominations. 9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that
 role of the present applicant is to be investigated and the fact that allegations are
 serious in nature having wider ramifications, therefore, in the considered opinion
 of this Court, no case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out in favour of
 applicant. Therefore, the anticipatory bail application preferred by the applicant
 is hereby dismissed. (ANAND PATHAK)
 JUDGE
 Vishal Signature Not Verified Signed by: VISHAL UPADHYAY Signing time: 13-04-2024 03:54:13 PM