1. Vide this order, I shall dispose of the appeal filed by the
 appellant / wife under provisions of Section 29 of The
 Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005
 (hereinafter referred as DV Act ) assailing the impugned order Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2. Before adverting to the appeal, it is necessary to narrate the
 relevant facts which in nutshell are that the marriage between
 the parties was solemnized on 29.11.2017 and from this
 wedlock, one male child was born on 16.10.2018, who is in
 the care and custody of the appellant. The relationship of the
 parties had got strained and since 29.08.2022 the appellant
 alongwith minor son is residing at her parental home.
 Resultantly, the appellant / complainant filed a petition under Section 12 of the DV Act before the learned Trial Court
 alleging therein that the marriage was performed with great
 pomp and show and lots of dowry articles were given in the
 marriage. Besides this, a Mahindra XUV 500 worth about
 Rs.18 lakhs was also given in the marriage. However, after
 marriage, she was subjected to torture and harassment for
 bringing less dowry and not upto the status of the respondent. Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: 3. The appellant has assailed the impugned order on the
 following grounds : 4. Learned counsel for the appellant has vehemently argued that
 learned trial court has failed to consider that the respondent
 has concealed his true income which he is getting from
 various properties and business. Further, learned trial court
 has grossly erred in not considering the fact that the
 Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: 5. The appeal has been strongly contested by the respondent. Rebutting the arguments addressed on behalf of the appellant,
 learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the order
 passed by the learned trial court is not only bad in law but
 also contrary to the records and evidence placed on record.
 The appellant has made false and frivolous allegations against
 the respondent and his family members. Learned counsel
 argued that the impugned order has also been challenged by
 the respondent / husband vide separate appeal as learned MM Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 Date: 6. I have heard arguments of learned counsels for both the sides
 and have perused the record as well as written submissions
 and other material placed on record. 7. The object and purpose of maintenance has been discussed by
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Kanupriya Sharma Vs. State
 & Anr. , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 8816. Relevant paras 21, 22
 and 24 of this judgment are reproduced as follows : 8. In the present case, marriage between the parties stands
 admitted. It is also an admitted case that from the marriage of
 parties, one son was born, who is in the care and custody of
 the appellant. It is also not in dispute that due to constrained
 relationship, multiple litigations are pending between the
 parties. Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU
 MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: 9. The main grievance of the appellant is that the respondent has
 concealed his true income from the court and learned trial
 court has grossly erred in concluding that the income of
 respondent is not less than Rs.40,000/- per month. 10. It is relevant to mention here that in Smt. Jasbir Kaur Sehgal
 Vs. The District Judge Dehradun & Ors. (1997) 7 SCC 7 ,
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as under : 11. The law is also well settled that the test for determination of
 maintenance / monetary relief contemplated under the Act
 depend upon the financial status of the parties and the
 standard of living of the husband to which the wife was
 accustomed to in her matrimonial home. The monetary
 reliefs should neither be too extravagant which may
 become oppressive and unbearable for the appellant nor it
 Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: 12. The appellant has contended that besides the monthly
 salary, the respondent is also earning income from business
 and from rental properties. She has claimed that the
 respondent is having a degree of MBA and earlier he used
 to do side business in her name and now he must have been
 doing the same in the name of some other person. Thus, he
 has concealed this fact from the court, which indicates that
 he is earning sufficiently even from his business besides his
 salary and learned trial court has failed to consider this
 aspect. 13. It will not be out of context to mention here that in a
 maintenance proceedings generally party claiming the
 maintenance always exaggerate income of the other party and
 the party required to pay the maintenance always show his /
 her income to be at bare minimum. Present case is no
 exception to the same. 14. Perusal of the record shows that though the appellant has
 claimed that respondent is earning income from his business
 and rental properties but she has not placed on record any Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: documentary proof, either before learned trial court or before
 this court, in order to substantiate her claim. The absence of
 documentary evidence from the appellant limits the Court's
 ability to independently verify these claims. 15. Perusal of impugned order indicates that the learned trial
 court while deciding the application under Section 23 of DV
 Act has dealt in detail all the contentions raised by the
 appellant with regard to the income of the respondent.
 Further, learned trial court after carefully going through the
 income & expenditure affidavit filed by both the sides and
 submissions made, has rightly came to the conclusion that the
 income of the respondent is not less than Rs.40,000/- per
 month. 16. It is pertinent to mention here that time and again, Hon'ble
 Superior Courts have held that while awarding the interim
 maintenance, the courts have to assess the financial position
 of the parties based on some guess work. From the impugned
 order, it is clearly evident that learned trial court has also duly
 considered the credit entries reflected in the bank statement of
 the respondent as well as the salary slip placed on record by
 him and observed as under : 17. From the above, it is evident that the presumption of the
 learned trial court regarding the respondent's income is based
 on a reasonable assessment of the evidence presented,
 particularly the bank account statements showing additional
 credit entries. Whether the entries in the bank account
 pertains to salary income, business income or rental income is
 a matter of facts which cannot be decided without there being
 evidence led by the parties. 18. Now coming to the contention of appellant that the amount
 awarded by learned trial court towards interim maintenance
 i.e. Rs.16,000/- per month (Rs.6,000/- for appellant and
 Rs.10,000/- for the minor son) is not adequate as respondent
 is earning handsomely and she is taking care of all the
 expenses of the minor son besides school fees which is
 around Rs.19,000/- per month. 19. Admittedly, the appellant is taking care of minor son who is
 living with her and the respondent cannot escape from his
 liability to maintain his minor son. Further, it has come on
 record i.e. in the income & expenditure of respondent that the
 child is only dependent upon him. Thus, as per settled law,
 the respondent cannot shirk his responsibility as husband to Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 Date: 20. With respect to the distribution of income for the purpose of
 maintenance, it is a settled law that family resource cake has
 to apportioned and the income of the dominant earning
 spouse shall be distributed proportionally as per the
 requirements of the family members. Reliance can be placed
 on Annurita Vohra Vs. Sandeep Vohra , 2004 (74) DRJ 99,
 wherein Hon'ble High Court has observed as under : 21. In the present case, learned trial court has presumed the
 income of the respondent as of Rs.40,000/- per month and
 rightly awarded a sum of Rs.16,000/- per month towards the
 interim maintenance. Further, perusal of the trial court record
 shows that learned trial court vide order dated 18.10.2023 has
 already directed the respondent to pay 70% of the outstanding
 amount of school fees for the period from April 2023 to
 September 2023 and she has also directed the respondent to
 pay 70% of the school fees to School directly. Thus, learned
 trial court in her discretion has rightly awarded the
 maintenance of Rs.16,000/- per month for the appellant and Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: 22. In view of the above findings, this court finds that learned
 trial court has passed a reasoned order and no intervention is
 required at this stage. In any case, the present order is only an
 interim order. All the contentions and documents are yet to be
 tested on the touch-stone of cross-examination and evidence
 to be led by each party and the amount remains adjustable
 after final order to be passed by the court. Therefore, at this
 stage, there is no ground to interfere with the impugned order
 passed by the learned Trial court. Accordingly, the impugned
 order dated 23.01.2024 is upheld and the appeal is dismissed. 23. Nothing expressed herein shall tantamount to any expression
 on the merits of the case. 24. Trial court record be sent back along with copy of order. The
 appeal file be consigned to the record room. MADHU by MADHU JAIN
 Date: