The Court made the following order:- 2.The case of the prosecution in brief:- 3.Seeking anticipatory bail, this petition has been

 filed by A2. 4.The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner

 would submit that this petitioner did not receive any

 benefit because of the above said theft alleged to have

 been committed by A1. He would further submit that the

 petitioner is also running a rival business and because

 of the rivalry only, he has been wrongly implicated. 5.Per contra, the learned Additional Public

 Prosecutor would submit that by committing the data theft

 of the above said company, A1 shared the same with the

 other accused for profit or commission as the case may.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 4 6.But during the course of investigation, it was not

 revealed as to whether any order has been placed by the

 de-facto complainant and that failed due to the data

 theft, that was committed by A1. There is no material to

 show that this petitioner also placed orders with the

 buyers quoting less price, than that of the offer made by

 the de-facto complainant. Unless it is shown that the de-

 facto complainant lost the business, because of sharing

 of the information or data with this petitioner, he is

 entitled for bail. But however, if during the course of

 investigation, if custodial interrogation is required,

 the respondents are at liberty to move the trial court

 for appropriate orders. Granting of anticipatory bail

 will not stand in the way of the above said proceedings. 7.In view of the above fact, this court is inclined

 to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner with certain

 conditions. Accordingly, the petitioner is ordered to be

 released on bail in the event of arrest or on his

 appearance before the learned Judicial Magistrate No.I,

 Karur and on his executing a bond for a sum of

 Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) with two sureties

 each for a like sum to the satisfaction of the learned

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 5 Judicial Magistrate concerned and on further condition

 that the petitioner shall appear before the respondent

 police daily at 10.30 am until further orders. The

 petitioner shall comply with the condition stipulated

 under Section 438 Cr.P.C. scrupulously. 1.The Deputy Superintendent of Police,
 District Crime Branch,
 Karur. 2.The Sub-Inspector of Police,
 District Crime Branch,
 Karur. 3.The Additional Public Prosecutor,
 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court,
 Madurai. G.ILANGOVAN, J

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 6 er Crl.OP(MD)No.13990 of 2023 08/08/2023

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis