This appeal has been filed by the appellants- defendants against the judgment and decree dated 16.08.2005,

 passed by the learned Additional District Judge, Fast Track

 Court, Shimla, District Shimla, H.P., reversing the judgment and

 decree dated 7.9.1999, passed by the learned Sub Judge Ist

 Class, Court No.2, Shimla, whereby the suit filed by the

 respondents-plaintiffs has been decreed. Whether the reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgement? Yes. 2. Briefly stated fact as emerged from the record are

 that the plaintiffs filed a suit for possession of three plots of land

 . measuring 1.3 bighas comprised in Khasra Nos. 670/1, 672 and

 674, Khewat No.50, Khatauni No.62, of Jamabandi for the year

 1986-87, situated at village Badhal, Tehsil and District Shimla

 alongwith the construction standing thereupon and for recovery

 of Rs.19,000/- on account of mesne profits for the last three

 of
 years/use and occupation charges and future mesne profits at

 the rate of Rs.6000/- per month from the date of filing of the suit. rt
 Plaintiffs set up a case that late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral wife of

 Sardar Ajit Singh being owner of the suit property and several

 other properties, situated in village Badhal created a lease for 20

 years in respect of suit property in favour of appellants- defendants M/s. Byford Private Limited. In the year 1970

 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral expired but during her life time she had

 executed a Will with respect to her entire property including suit

 property, whereby she bequeathed entire property in favour of

 plaintiff No.2. It was averred in the plaint that Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral and her husband late Sardar Ajit Singh wanted to create

 some charitable Trust qua some part of property. Accordingly,

 plaintiff No.2 solely with a view to honour their wish created a

 Trust; namely; Ajit Lajwanti Gujral Trust, Kachi Ghati, Tara Devi,

 Shimla, after becoming the owner of the entire property of ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:41 :::HCHP 3 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral on the basis of will executed by her. Aforesaid Trust was created by plaintiff No.2 in the year 1982 and

 . as such, immediately after the death of Smt.Lajwanti Gujral,

 plaintiff No.2; namely; Rajindr Singh asked defendant No.1 who

 was a lessee under Lajwanti Gujral, to attorn in his favour. But,

 defendant No.1 instead of accepting title of plaintiff No.2 asked

 him to get his title cleared from the Court. It also emerged from

 of
 the plaint that rest of the property of Lajwanti Gujral was illegally

 occupied by the persons namely; Nanak Singh and Parveen

 Singh. rt 3. Plaintiffs also filed a suit in this Court against the

 aforesaid Nanak Singh and Parveen Singh for possession of rest

 of the property. Similarly, Nanak Singh also filed a suit claiming

 himself to be President of some Society known as Gurdwara Lal

 Ajit Sabha, but plaintiff in the plaint claimed that aforesaid suits

 have no bearing on the case in hand, since the status of the

 defendants was only that of the lessees under Lajwanti Gujral

 and after her death under the plaintiff. Plaintiff also alleged that

 the lease created by Smt.Lajwanti Gujral, in favour of defendant

 No.1, was expired on 10.7.1989 and the plaintiffs thus, became

 entitled to recover the possession of the suit property from

 defendants. Plaintiff also claimed that defendants not only

 refused to handover the possession of the suit property after ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:41 :::HCHP 4 expiry of lease but also started collecting material for the

 construction of some structure on the suit land unauthorisedly. . 4. Record reveals that only defendants No.1 to 3

 contested the suit, whereas remaining defendants were proceeded

 ex-parte. Defendants No.1 to 3 by way of written statement

 denied the claim of the plaintiff put forth in the plaint by stating

 that suit was liable to be stayed under Section 10 of the Code of

 of
 Civil Procedure (for short ` CPC ') because of previously instituted

 two civil suits i.e. one suit filed by the plaintiff against Nanak
 rt
 Singh and Parveen Singh and another suit filed by Nanak Singh

 against the plaintiffs in this Court, which were pending at that

 relevant time. Defendants also stated that plaintiffs were estopped

 to sue by their acts, deeds and conduct. On merits, defendants

 admitted that Lajwanti Gujral had created a lease for 20 years on

 monthly rent at the rate of Rs.500/- in favour of defendant No.1

 in the year 1969 and that the lease was for a fixed term of 20 years,

 but defendants stated that Lajwanti Gujral was not the absolute

 owner of the property and she was only given a life estate by her

 husband late Sardar Ajit Singh. As per defendants late Sardar

 Ajit Singh provided in will that on her death the entire property,

 including the suit property would go to a charitable Trust and as

 such Lajwanti Gujral was not competent to execute will

 bequeathing the property to anybody. However, defendants ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:41 :::HCHP 5 in alternative denied that Lajwanti Gujral made any will in favour

 of plaintiff No.2. Defendants claimed that they rightly refused to

 . pay the rent to the plaintiff No.2 after the death of Lajwanti Gujral

 since they were considering themselves to be the owners of the

 property and so that they had become the owners by way of

 adverse possession. Defendants, in the alternative, also pleaded

 that they had become the owners of the suit land by operation of

 of Section 104 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act

 (hereinafter referred to as the ` H.P. Tenancy Act'). 5.
 rtLearned trial Court vide judgment and decree dated

 7.9.1999 dismissed the suit of the plaintiff by holding that the

 plaintiffs are not owners of the suit property or entitled to recover

 the possession of the same as prayed for. Learned trial Court

 also not held plaintiffs entitled to use and occupation charges. Similarly, learned trial Court, while dismissing the suit of the

 plaintiffs, also held that the defendants have not become the

 owners of the suit property as claimed by way of adverse

 possession or conferment of proprietary rights. 6. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid

 judgment and decree passed by the learned trial Court, plaintiffs

 filed an appeal before the learned Additional District Judge, Fast

 Track Court, Shimla, who vide impugned judgment and decree

 dated 16.8.2005 allowed the appeal, whereby plaintiffs were held ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:41 :::HCHP 6 entitled for possession of the suit property. Learned first

 appellate Court, while accepting the appeal, held that appellants

 . had been successful in establishing the title and possession of

 appellant No.1 in the suit property. Learned first appellate Court

 specifically returned the findings that the possession of

 respondents became unauthorized after 10.7.1989 and as such

 besides holding plaintiff entitled for possession also held entitled

 of
 to fair rent from 1.4.1990. 7. In the aforesaid background, present appellants- rt
 defendants, being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned

 judgment and decree dated 16.8.2005 passed by learned

 Additional District Judge, Fast Track Court, Shimla, filed instant

 Second Appeal, which was admitted by this Court vide order

 dated 20.9.2003 on the following substantial questions of law:- 8. At this stage, it may be noticed that present

 appellants-defendants, during the pendency of present appeal,

 moved an application bearing No.CMP No.9199 of 2015 under ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:41 :::HCHP 7 Order 41 Rules 27 and 33 read with Section 151 CPC, praying

 therein for placing on record copy of notification dated 2.8.2006,

 . issued by Government of Himachal Pradesh including area

 wherein tenanted premises are situated, in the limits of Municipal

 Corporation, Shimla. However, this Court vide order dated 1st

 October, 2015 ordered that application referred hereinabove

 would be considered at the time of final hearing. Similarly,

 of
 present appellants-defendants also moved CMP No.3363 of 2016

 under Section 100 CPC read with Order 42 Rule 2 and Section
 rt
 151 CPC , praying therein for amendment of existing substantial

 questions of law as well as framing of additional substantial

 question of law. 9. Shri Ajay Kumar Sood, learned Senior Counsel,

 representing the appellants, vehemently argued that the

 impugned judgment passed by the learned Additional District

 Judge, Shimla, is not sustainable in the eye of law since same is

 not based upon correct appreciation of evidence adduced on

 record by the respective parties. Mr.Sood contended that bare

 perusal of impugned judgment itself suggests that the learned

 appellate Court has erred gravely and acted with material

 illegality, irregularity and impropriety in passing the impugned

 judgment and decree merely on the basis of conjectures and

 surmises. 10. Mr.Sood further contended that learned first

 appellate Court has erred gravely and acted with material

 . illegality and irregularity by misinterpreting the law as applicable

 to the facts of this case. During arguments having been made by

 him, Mr.Sood, made this Court to travel through the issues

 framed by the learned trial Court to suggest that suit of the

 plaintiff was dismissed by the trial court on merits by deciding

 of
 issues No.1 to 5 against the plaintiffs after critical analysis of the

 evidence of the parties, whereas learned first appellate Court
 rt
 simply based his entire decision on document Ex.PW-1/S, i.e.

 common judgment and decree dated 16.1.1998, passed by

 learned Additional District Judge, Shimla, in two Civil Suits i.e.

 Civil Suit No.38-S/1 of 95/81, titled: Shri Gurudwara Laj Ajit

 Memorial Sabha through its President Shri Nanak Singh vs.

 Shri Gurudweara Singh Sabha, Cart Road, Motor Stand,

 Shimla through its President Shri Baldev Singh and Civil

 Suit No.6-S/1 of 96/83, titled: Ajit Lajwanti Gujral Trust &

 Others vs. Shri Nanak Singh Gandhi & Others (hereinafter

 referred to as `Ex.PW-1/S'), which was, admittedly, not a

 judgment and decree inter-se parties. Learned first appellate

 Court instead of analyzing the evidence adduced on record by

 both the parties solely relied upon Ex.PW-1/S i.e. judgment and

 decree passed in some other case where present appellants were ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 9 not party and such grave illegality has been committed by learned

 first appellate Court while passing the impugned judgment and

 . decree and as such same deserves to be quashed and set aside. 11. Mr.Sood argued with full vehemence that learned

 first appellate Court, while holding present appellants in un-

 authorised possession of the suit property after 10.7.1989, failed

 to address the actual controversy involved in the suit because at

 of
 no point of time learned first appellate Court referred to evidence

 led on record by the parties qua the issues framed by learned trial

 Court. rt
 Mr.Sood, while referring to the impugned judgment,

 passed by learned first appellate Court, stated that Court below

 not bothered or cared to address the facts of the case or the

 evidence on the case file and the issues involved in the present

 suit and whether the plaintiffs had been able to prove any of the

 issue by leading proper and legal evidence in the matter and as

 such he prayed for setting aside of the impugned judgment,

 which, as per him, was illegal and erroneously decided by learned

 first appellate Court in absence of any proof on any of the issues. Mr.Sood forcefully contended that Ex.PW-1/S was not inter

 partes and as such it was neither admissible in evidence in the

 present case nor it could be operated as a res judicata between

 the parties under Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short ` Evidence

 Act '). 12. Mr.Sood further contended that aforesaid judgment

 Ex.PW-1/S has no relevance in the present case and plaintiffs

 . were required to prove its case on its own fact since Evidence Act does not make finding of fact arrived at on the evidence before the

 Court in one case evidence of that fact in another case where the

 parties are not the same. Mr.Sood also argued that the learned

 first appellate Court failed to take note of the accepted legal

 of
 proposition that a judgment is not admissible or relevant unless it

 fulfills the mandatory requirements of Sections 40 to 43 of the
 rt Evidence Act and as such judgment, which is not inter partes,

 could be made basis by the learned first appellate Court for

 deciding the appeal at hand. Mr.Sood further contended that the

 judgment, which was not inter partes, could not operate as res

 judicata and could not be made sole basis of deciding a suit of

 title and possession, especially when plaintiffs miserably failed to

 lead evidence to prove the issue involved in the present case,

 though Mr.Sood, fairly conceded that Ex.PW-1/S was further

 upheld by the Hon'ble High Court and Hon'ble Apex Court. While

 concluding his arguments, Mr.Sood, persuaded this Court to

 peruse evidence led on record by plaintiffs to demonstrate that

 the plaintiffs miserably failed to prove that it was a legally and

 validly constituted Trust. Similarly, Mr.Sood made this Court to

 peruse evidence adduced on record by the plaintiffs to ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 11 demonstrate that at no point of time plaintiffs were able to prove

 will of late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral on the basis of which they

 . claimed title of the suit property. Lastly, Mr.Sood stated that it is

 ample clear from the judgment passed by learned trial Court that

 the plaintiffs were not able to prove creation of Trust, if any,

 because at no point of time PW-1 was able to place on record

 Trust Deed, authorization letter authorizing him to file suit on

 of
 behalf of Trust and will, if any, executed by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral. 13.
 rt
 At this stage, Mr.Sood, apart from making aforesaid

 arguments, invited the attention of this Court to CMP

 No.9199/2015 filed by appellants under Order 41 Rules 27 and

 33 read with Section 151 CPC for placing on record additional

 documents and prayed that the same may be decided at first

 instance before adverting to the merits of the case since

 documents intended to be placed on record would have great

 bearing on the merits of the case. 14. Mr.Sood stated that during the pendency of the suit,

 State of Himachal Pradesh vide notification dated 2.8.2006

 included certain new areas in Municipal Limits of Municipal

 Corporation, Shimla. Mr.Sood, while referring to para-3 of the

 application, submitted that area in question, where suit property

 is situated, has also been included in the limits of Municipal ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 12 Corporation, Shimla vide aforesaid notification. As per Mr.Sood,

 with the inclusion of the suit property in the Municipal

 . Corporation area, suit itself has become infructuous and as such

 in view of subsequent development, the application may be

 allowed and they be permitted to place on record copy of

 notification. 15. Similarly, Mr.Sood also invited the attention of this

 of
 Court to CMP No.3363 of 2016 filed by appellants under Section

 100 read with Order 42 Rule 2 and Section 151 CPC for
 rt
 amendment and reframing of substantial questions of law. 16. Mr.Sood, while making arguments, also invited the

 attention of this Court to the substantial questions of law framed

 on 20.9.2005, whereby question No.2 was framed by this Court

 as under:- 17. As per Mr.Sood, keeping in view the controversy at

 hand, aforesaid issue should have been framed as under:- Since suit was filed against the appellants by an alleged Trust,

 Mr.Sood stated that there appears to be typographical mistake

 while framing the said question of law and as such it needs to be

 re-framed accordingly. 18. Mr.Sood, while referring to para-4 of the aforesaid

 application, also stated that in the instant case, judgment passed

 . in some other case and exhibited as Ex.PW-1/S, has been relied

 upon by the learned first appellate Court for passing impugned

 judgment against the appellants, which was not admissible in

 evidence under Sections 40 to 43 of the Indian Evidence Act and

 could not be made basis for passing impugned judgment by the

 of
 learned first appellate Court and as such substantial question

 No.3 requires to be recast and substantial questions No.3 to 5 as
 rt
 submitted with the grounds of appeal required to be reframed. He also submitted that now since the suit property has come in

 the limits of Municipal Corporation of Shimla, another

 substantial question of law requires to be framed as under:- 19. Mr.Sood in support of aforesaid contentions placed

 reliance on the judgments passed by Hon'ble Apex Court as well

 as by this Court in Sunder Dass vs. Ram Parkash 1977( 2)

 R.C.R. 143, Mani Subrat Jain vs. Raja Ram Vohra , AIR 1980

 SC 299, Lakshmi Narayan Guin and others vs. Niranjan

 Modak, AIR 1985 SC 111, Anthony vs. K.C. Ittoop & Sons

 and Others, (2000)6 SCC 394, Vishwanath Sitaram vs.

 Sau.Sarla Vishwanath Agrawal, AIR 2012 SC 2586. Sunit ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 14 Kumar vs. Laxmi Chand, 2009(2) Shim.L.C. 448 and Shyam

 Sunder Lal vs. Shagun Chand, AIR 1987 Allahabad 214. . 20. Mr.Bhupender Gupta, learned Senior Counsel,

 supported the judgment and decree passed by the learned first

 appellate Court. Mr.Gupta, while referring to the impugned

 judgment, vehemently argued that bare perusal of same suggests

 that same is based upon correct appreciation of the evidence as

 of
 well as law and as such no interference, whatsoever, of this Court

 is warranted in the present facts and circumstances of the case. rt
 Mr.Gupta, strenuously argued that there is no illegality, infirmity

 and perversity in the impugned judgment passed by the learned

 first appellate Court, rather same is based upon the correct

 appreciation of facts as well as law. 21. Mr.Gupta, while refuting the contention put forth on

 behalf of learned Senior Counsel representing the appellants,

 submitted that learned first appellate Court rightly placed

 reliance upon Ex.PW-1/S because, admittedly, vide Ex.PW-1/S,

 Court below held plaintiff No.2 Rajinder Singh Gujral to be the

 owner of the suit property pursuant to will executed by late

 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral. Mr.Gupta, while inviting the attention of

 this Court to judgment Ex.PW-1/S, strenuously argued that bare

 perusal of the said judgment Ex.PW-1/S suggests that will

 executed by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral was held to be valid one and ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 15 for all intents and purposes plaintiff No.2 Rajinder Singh was

 held to be owner of the suit property on the basis of will executed

 . by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral. Mr.Gupta, forcefully contended that

 bare perusal of the written statement filed by appellants clearly

 suggests that rent was denied to plaintiff No.2 solely on the

 ground that at first instance he should prove his title. 22. Mr.Gupta, invited the attention of this Court to the

 of
 written statement filed by defendants, wherein it was stated that

 two civil suits were pending; meaning thereby that defendants
 rt
 were denied rent as well as acknowledging plaintiff No.2 to be

 owner for want of title, which issue was ultimately decided vide

 Ex.PW-1/S, wherein plaintiff No.2 was held to be owner of the

 suit property pursuance to will executed by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral, which was also held to be valid. Mr.Gupta invited the

 attention of this Court to the admission made on behalf of

 defendants in the written statement that they had procured legal

 opinion of Mr.K.D. Sood, Advocate, wherein he advised that they

 should wait for outcome of both the afore-mentioned Civil Suits. 23. In the aforesaid background, Mr.Gupta, forcefully

 contended that learned trial Court had fallen in grave error while

 not acknowledging Ex.PW-1/S, which could be material

 document to decide the controversy at hand. Mr.Gupta, refuted

 the contention put forth on behalf of counsel representing the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 16 appellants that learned first appellate Court failed to take note of

 the mandatory requirements of Sections 40 to 43 of the Evidence

 . Act by stating that judgment Ex.PW-1/S had direct bearing upon

 the present suit because in that case issue with regard to title of

 suit property was decided. As per Mr.Gupta, once defendants

 specifically raised the issue of title, learned trial Court while

 deciding the controversy at hand ought to have relied upon

 of
 Ex.PW-1/S with a view to go to the root of the controversy. With

 a view to substantiate the aforesaid arguments, Mr.Gupta invited
 rt
 the attention of this Court to Section 13 of the Evidence Act. Mr.Gupta, while refuting the arguments made by Mr.Sood that

 the plaintiffs led no evidence to prove that it was a legally and

 validly constituted Trust, submitted that had learned trial Court

 taken cognizance of Ex.PW-1/S, wherein issue of execution of will

 by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral as well as constitution of Trust by

 plaintiff was specifically dealt with by the trial Court, all

 objections/contentions raised/made by appellants-defendants

 would have answered automatically. 24. Mr.Gupta also stated that learned trial Court below

 miserably failed to appreciate the evidence led on record by the

 plaintiffs, wherein, PW-1 Baldev Singh categorically stated that

 property earlier belonged to Sardar Surjeet Singh, who made will

 in favour of Smt.Lajwanti in the year 1970. He also stated that ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 17 Smt.Lajwanti made a will in favour of plaintiff No.2 Shri Rajinder

 Singh, as a consequent of that, mutation was attested in favour of

 . plaintiff No.2 vide Jamabandi Ex.PW-1/A to E. He categorically

 stated that Chairman, Gurudwara Singh Sabha was ex-officio

 Chairman and there were six trustees. PW-1 Baldev Singh also

 stated that Trust was made in the year 1982, copy of which is

 mark `A'. Mr.Gupta, further contended that if, for the sake of

 of
 arguments, it is conceded that PW-1 Baldev Singh was not able to

 prove validity of constituted Trust, learned trial Court could not
 rt
 dismiss the suit on that ground, especially when PW-2 Rajinder

 Singh, who became owner of the property, was one of the plaintiff. Mr.Gupta, also invited the attention of this Court to the

 statement of PW-1 wherein he stated that PW-2 Rajinder Singh

 Gujral issued notice to defendants after becoming owner; meaning thereby that the suit at hand was instituted by PW-2

 also and as such learned trial Court below could not dismiss the

 suit on the ground that plaintiffs were not able to prove that they

 were owners of the suit land and entitled to recover the

 possession of the suit land. While concluding his arguments in

 the case, Mr. Gupta vehemently argued that had trial Court below

 placed reliance upon Ex.PW-1/S, judgment dated 16.1.1998

 would not have been passed by learned trial Court because all

 issues pertaining to execution of will, title and creation of Trust ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 18 were decided in that judgment which has been upheld up to

 Hon'ble Apex Court. . 25. Mr.Gupta, while opposing the prayer made in the

 applications moved under Order 42 Rule 2 read with Section 151 CPC and Order 41 Rules 27 & 33 read with Section 151 CPC filed

 on behalf of the appellants, stated that there is no subsequent

 development which may defeat the decree passed by the appellate

 of
 Court in favour of plaintiffs. Mr.Gupta, stated that merely the

 fact that the property is located in the area which stands included
 rt
 in the Municipal Corporation would not give any right to the

 appellants to submit that the suit has become infructuous, rather

 applicants-appellants solely with a view to defeat the mandate of

 impugned judgment are trying to misrepresent the true facts by

 placing reliance upon notification issued by State of Himachal

 Pradesh including area of suit property in Municipal Corporation,

 Shimla. Mr.Gupta, with a view to refute the aforesaid contention

 put forth on behalf of counsel representing the appellants,

 forcefully argued that relationship of landlord and tenant was not

 at all admitted by the appellants in the written statement and as

 such appellants are estopped from contending that the suit has

 become infructuous and the provisions of H.P. Urban Rent

 Control Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as `H.P. Rent Act') are

 applicable. With a view to substantiate his aforesaid arguments ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 19 he invited the attention of this Court to the written statement

 filed by the appellants-defendants, wherein appellants claimed

 . title to the suit property by claiming ownership on the ground of

 adverse possession. Mr.Gupta also persuaded this Court to

 peruse the impugned judgment to demonstrate that even at the

 stage of first appellate Court appellants made submissions with

 regard to application of provisions of H.P. Rent Act in the

 of
 controversy at hand which was dismissed by the Court by

 returning findings that possession of the applicants over the suit
 rt
 property was unauthorized after 10.7.1989 and as such suit was

 decreed. Mr.Gupta, contended that once it stands proved on

 record that possession of appellants was unauthorized after

 10.7.1989, they cannot be termed as `tenants' in any capacity so

 as to invoke the provisions of H.P. Rent Act. He further

 contended that it is well settled law that the suit for possession

 can always be filed against an unauthorized occupant and there

 is no legal impediment to pass the decree in favour of the owners

 and as such application filed during the pendency of present

 appeal, which is nothing but a ploy to delay the proceedings, is

 absolutely untenable and such additional or alternative plea is

 not available to the appellants-applicants at this stage. 26. Mr.Gupta, while opposing the applications, as

 referred above, stated that in view of his aforesaid arguments, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 20 there is no need, if any, for framing of additional substantial

 question as prayed in CMP No.3363 of 2016. Mr.Gupta, opposed

 . the prayer of appellants for placing on record additional

 documents as well as framing of issues as prayed for in the

 aforesaid application on the ground that there is no explanation

 worth name with regard to delay in filing the present application. Mr.Gupta strenuously argued that when this notification had

 of
 come in existence on 2.8.2006, what prevented the present

 appellants to move this application in the year 2015 i.e. after 9
 rt
 years of issuance of this notification. Similarly, Mr.Gupta argued

 that why appellants failed to move an application for recasting of

 issues, if any, for almost 10 years. Otherwise also notification

 had come in existence on 2.8.2006 and as such any application

 for re-casting issues in light of issuance of notification after 10

 years cannot be allowed at this stage because same has been filed

 solely with a view to delay the proceedings and defeat the

 mandate of impugned judgment. 27. Before resorting to explore the answer to substantial

 question of law, it would be appropriate for this Court to decide

 both the aforesaid applications at first instance. Perusal of the

 averments contained in the aforesaid applications as well as reply

 thereto clearly suggests that vide notification dated 2.8.2006 area

 in question, where the property, subject matter of the suit, is ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 21 situated, stands included in the limits of Municipal Corporation,

 Shimla. . 28. In view of above, now this Court needs to ascertain

 that "what would be the effect of issuance of notification dated

 2.8.2006 on the suit filed by the plaintiff for possession of suit

 property against present appellants-defendants?" Admittedly,

 when the suit for possession was filed, property in question was

 of
 not governed by H.P. Rent Act. Though record reveals that during

 the pendency of trial, defendants had moved an application under
 rt Order 7 Rule 11 CPC to show that w.e.f. 11.1.1997 area became

 part of Municipal Corporation, Shimla, and as such they claimed

 themselves to be tenants holdings over even after termination of

 tenancy and as such they claimed that they cannot be ejected by

 way of civil suit and relief, if any, can be claimed against them

 under H.P. Rent Act which would govern the relationship between

 landlord and tenant. But, it appears that thereafter area in

 question was again excluded from the limits of Municipal

 Corporation, Shimla, which was again included vide aforesaid

 notification dated 2.8.2006. 29. As per Mr.Sood, notification dated 2.8.2006 has

 direct bearing upon the present case because once property in

 question stands included in Municipal Area, same would be

 governed with the provisions of H.P. Rent Act. As per Mr.Sood, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 22 admittedly, when suit was filed, suit property was not within the

 limits of Municipal Corporation but during the pendency of

 . present appeal it has been included in the Corporation and as

 such present suit cannot be allowed. Since property is located

 within the Municipal Corporation, plaintiffs have remedy, if any,

 under the H.P. Rent Act for eviction of the tenanted premises. 30. Since, appellants-defendants, in view of notification

 of
 dated 2.8.2006 issued by State of Himachal Pradesh, wherein suit

 property has been included in the limits of Municipal
 rt
 Corporation, Shimla, claimed that they being tenants over

 holdings can only be evicted by resorting to the provisions of Rent

 Act . It would be appropriate to refer the definition of "tenant", as

 provided in sub-section (j) of Section 2 of H.P. Rent Act, which is

 as under: . 31. Perusal of definition, as reproduced above, suggests

 that any person by whom or on whose account rent is paid of

 residential or non-residential building or rented land and

 includes a tenant continuing in possession after termination of

 the tenancy. of 32. Section 14 of H.P. Rent Act provides the provisions of

 `Eviction of Tenants', which reads as under:- 33. To initiate proceedings, if any, under Section 14 of

 the H.P. Rent Act, landlord at first instance is under obligation to

 prove that occupant of premises, which is being sought to be

 evicted by resorting to provisions of Section 14 , is a "tenant" within the meaning of Section 2(j) as reproduced hereinabove. 34. In view of detailed discussion made hereinabove, by

 no stretch of imagination appellants-defendants can claim

 themselves to be "tenants" in terms of Section 2(j) of the H.P. Rent

 Act and as such plea advanced on their behalf with regard to ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 24 application of H.P. Rent Act for eviction of suit property is

 baseless and same deserves to be rejected out rightly. . 35. In the present case, undisputedly present appellants

 were inducted as lessee in the year 1969 by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujaral for 20 years i.e. up to 10.7.1989 and after expiry of lease,

 plaintiff No.2 filed suit for possession. As per Mr.Sood

 proceedings arising out of Civil Suit No.411/1 of 95/90 is still in

 of
 continuation in the shape of present appeal and as such still

 relationship of landlord and tenant exists between the parties. As
 rt
 per appellants-defendants, they enjoy the status of `tenants

 holding over' qua the premises even after termination of lease

 dated 10.7.1989 and as such eviction, if any, can be effected by

 resorting to the provisions of H.P. Rent Act. Whereas, as per

 Mr.Gupta, since relationship of landlord and tenant was not

 admitted by appellants at any stage, rather, appellants claimed

 themselves to be owners by way of adverse possession and as

 such plea, if any, of applicability of H.P. Rent Act cannot be

 allowed to raise at this stage. 36. Apart from above, learned appellate Court, while

 accepting the appeal of plaintiffs, specifically held the possession

 of appellants over the suit property as unauthorized after

 10.7.1989, meaning thereby that there was no relationship of

 landlord and tenant after 10.7.1989. 37. Close scrutiny of factual matrix available on record

 suggests that admittedly appellants were inducted as tenants in

 . the suit property by predecessor-in-interest of plaintiffs and for

 vacation of tenanted premises, proceedings at first instance were

 initiated by the plaintiffs by way of filing suit for possession,

 which was dismissed by learned trial Court by holding that the

 plaintiffs are not the owners of the suit property and as such they

 of
 are not entitled for recovery of possession. But in appeal, first

 appellate Court upset the findings of the trial Court and held
 rt
 plaintiff No.2 to be the owner of the suit property by holding

 present appellants in unauthorized possession of the suit

 property after 10.7.1989. At this stage, this Court needs to

 examine that what is the status of appellants, after 10.7.1989 i.e.

 date of expiry of lease; first, whether he is a trespasser or he is

 tenant in terms of Section 14 of the H.P. Rent Act. It is

 undisputed that plaintiffs filed suit against present appellants on

 5.4.1990 i.e. after expiry of lease by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral in

 the year 1969. It is also not disputed that late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral had created lease for 20 years on monthly rent of Rs.500/- in favour of defendant No.1 in the year 1969 and lease was on

 fixed term of 20 years and as such same was to be expired on

 10.7.1989. 38. At this stage, it would be apt to reproduce following

 paras of plaint filed by the plaintiffs: 39. Careful perusal of contents of the plaint, as referred

 hereinabove, clearly suggests that plaintiffs specifically claimed

 that lease granted by Smt.Lajwanti Gujral, predecessor-in- interest of plaintiff No.2, in favour of appellant-defendant No.1

 stands determined by efflux of time and defendant has no right to

 continue occupying the property. Plaintiffs specifically averred in

 the plaint that there is forfeiture of lease due to non-payment of

 arrears of rent since month of August, 1970 by defendant No.1 to

 plaintiff No.2 and as such tenancy stands determined by efflux of ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 29 time and by forfeiture. Plaintiffs further stated in plaint that

 defendants have no right to change the nature of property or to

 . raise any construction thereupon, especially when the period of

 lease has expired and plaintiffs have no intention either to extend

 the period of lease or to have the property occupied by

 defendants. As such, defendants were requested to handover the

 possession of the property to the Plaintiffs on the expiry of the

 of
 lease. 40. It clearly emerge from the plaint filed by the plaintiffs
 rt
 that suit was filed for recovery of possession specifically stating

 therein that lease granted in favour of defendant No.1 stands

 determined by efflux of time and plaintiffs have no intention

 either to extend the period of lease or to have the property

 occupied by defendants; meaning thereby that after expiry of

 lease on 10.7.1989, the relationship of tenant and landlord, if

 any, stood terminated. 41. Though, defendants resisted the claim of the

 plaintiffs on various grounds, especially title of plaintiff No.2, but

 it remains fact that at no point of time lease executed by late

 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral was renewed after 10.7.1989. Since

 appellants-defendants disputed the claim of plaintiff No.2 of

 having acquired the status of owner in terms of will executed by

 late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral, defendants claimed themselves to be ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 30 owners by way of adverse possession. Perusal of written

 statement filed by the defendants further reveals that defendants- . appellants claimed ownership by way of Section 104 of H.P.

 Tenancy Act also. 42. At this stage, it would be profitable to reproduce

 relevant paras of written statement filed on behalf of defendants

 No.1 to 3:- As such the dispute with respect to the

 title of the suit property and estate of Shri Ajit
 Singh original owner is subjudice before the
 Hon'ble High Court of Himachal Pradesh,
 Shimla, between the plaintiffs on the one hand

 and aforesaid persons on the other hand. Therefore, the present suit is directly hit by Section 10 CPC and is liable to be stayed till
 judicial finding is given regarding title of the
 suit property. Written Statement on Merits:- granted life estate in favour of Smt.Laj Wanti
 with right of maintenance etc. during her life

 time from the suit property and as per his Will
 Shri Ajit Singh had created a trust and after the
 death of Smt.Laj Wanti the trust was to be
 dissolved and the entire property owned by him

 was to be donated to a Charitable Institution.
 So far as Smt.Lajwanti is concerned, she did not
 have ownership rights in the suit property. She
 had only a life estate in the said property and

 of
 could create lease for her maintenance. She
 could not alienate or dispose of the suit
 property. 2. Contents of para No.2 of the plaint, as stated,
 rt
 are absolutely wrong, false and baseless to the
 very knowledge of the plaintiffs and, therefore,
 denied by the replying defendants. It is denied
 that Smt.Lajwanti was the sole owner of the

 property. It is also denied that after her death
 the property has allegedly devolved upon the
 plaintiff No.2. It is also denied that
 Smt.Lajwanti executed any so-called Will on
 2.2.68 or on any other date in favour of plaintiff

 No.2. To the best of the information of the
 replying defendants, she did not execute any
 alleged Will. Moreover, as submitted above
 Smt.Lajwanti could not make any Will as she

 did not have any such right to make any
 disposition or alienation of the suit property by
 Will. In fact, the legality and validity of so- called Will of Smt.Lajwanti which is the basis of
 suit is being hotly contested in the High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, in Civil Suit No.13 of 81 and Civil Suit No.44 of 83. The present suit is also not competent and maintainable unless
 and until the plaintiffs obtain probate or letters
 of administration with respect to alleged Will
 u/s 214 of the Indian Succession Act or until and
 unless they establish their title to the suit
 property in a competent court of law. 3. Contents of para No.3 of the plaint are
 absolutely wrong, false and baseless to the very
 knowledge of the plaintiffs and as such the
 same are emphatically denied and repudiated by
 the replying defendants. Title to the property of ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 32 late Shri Ajit Singh s/o Shri Sobha Singh is
 under dispute in the aforesaid two civil suits
 pending in the Hon'ble High Court of Himachal
 Pradesh, Shimla. It is denied that the plaintiff

 . No2 has been coming in actual possession of any
 part of the property of late Ajit Singh. In case

 he is in possession of any property of late
 Sardar Ajit Singh, the same is unlawful and as a
 trespasser and usurper. 4. Contents of para No.4 of the plaint, as stated,
 are wrong, and therefore, the same are denied
 by the replying defendants. The question of
 transfer of properties mentioned in para No.4 of

 of
 the plaint in favour of so-called plaintiff No.1
 trust does not arise at all because the plaintiff
 No.2 was at no point of time owner of the suit
 property. The properties have never been
 transferred to the so-called trust. The existence,
 rt
 legality and validity of plaintiff No.1 Trust is
 also denied and disputed by the replying
 defendants. There does not exist any such trust
 as claimed by the plaintiffs. The so-called Trust

 does not exist in the eyes of law secondly there
 has been no proper, legal or valid transfer of the
 suit property in favour of so-called trust.
 Therefore, the present suit is neither competent
 nor maintainable on behalf of the present

 plaintiffs against the replying defendants.
 There does not exist any legally constituted
 Trust. Plaintiff No.1 has got nothing to do with
 the suit property. 8. Contents of para No.8 of the plaint as stated, are
 absolutely wrong, false and baseless and,

 therefore, the same are emphatically denied and
 repudiated by the replying defendants. After the
 death of Smt.Lajwanti, the plaintiff No.2 did
 serve a notice on the replying defendants but he

 was asked by the replying defendants because to
 the information of the replying defendants
 Sardar Ajit Singh had made a Will whereby he
 had created a Trust and life estate in favour of
 Smt.Lajwanti and after her death had Willed
 away the suit property to be donated to some
 charitable institution. Otherwise also, the
 plaintiffs on the one hand and one Gurudwara
 Lal Ajit Memorial Sabha through its president
 Shri Nanak Singh Gandhi and others are
 involved in litigation in the High Court of
 Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 33 Civil Suit No.13 of 1981 and 44 of 83 claiming
 title to the suit property and others properties of
 late Sardar Ajit Singh. In the said suits the so-
 called Will of Smt.Lajwanti on the basis of which

 . plaintiff No.2 is claiming title to the suit
 property is also under dispute. In view of the

 matter being subjudice before the Hon'ble High
 Court, the present suit is liable to be stayed,
 because any finding given in this suit will effect
 the aforesaid two civil suits pending in the High

 Court. It may also be submitted that if plaintiff
 No.2 has succeed in manipulating in getting
 some entries made in the revenue records in his
 favour on the basis of so called Will of

 of
 Smt.Lajwanti the same are not binding on the
 replying defendants. Such entries also do not
 confer any ownership right or title in the
 plaintiff No.2 because the very basis of such
 entries, the so-called Will of Smt.Lajwanti, is a
 rtfictitious bogus and illegal document.
 plaintiff No.2 could not inherit any property
 from Smt.Lajwanti nor she was competent to
 The

 make any Will qua the suit property. Otherwise

 also, the genuineness authenticity or validity of
 the so-called Will is denied and disputed by the
 replying defendants. The plaintiffs be put to
 strict proof thereof. 11. Contents of para No.11 of the plaint are
 admitted in so far as they pertain to matters of
 record. Rest of the allegations which are
 contrary to the record are denied. However, it is

 further submitted that after the death of
 Smt.Lajwanti, the replying defendants stopped
 making payment of rent in the absence of any

 lawful claimant. They started treating
 themselves as owners of the suit property. They
 have acquired ownership rights in the suit
 property by way of adverse possession as they

 have openly been holding themselves out as
 owners of the said property after August 1970.
 In any case, it is further submitted in the
 alternative, the ownership rights qua the said
 property have vested in the replying defendants
 by virtue of the provisions of Himachal Pradesh
 Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972 . By
 operation of law, the replying defendants have
 become owners of the suit property as they were
 tenants in the suit property on the date of
 coming into operation of the said Act. Ownership rights have vested in the replying ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 34 defendants as per provisions of Section 104 of
 the said Act. 15. Contents of para No.15 of the plaint are

 . absolutely wrong, false and baseless and,
 therefore, denied by the replying defendants. The plaintiffs have no locus standi to claim
 possession. Therefore, the question of payment
 of rent or use and occupation charges does not
 arise at all. The defendants have become

 owners of the suit property by adverse
 possession or by operation of law as submitted
 above." of 43. Aforesaid stand taken by the defendants itself

 suggests that defendants were aware of the fact that after
 rt
 10.7.1989, they were ceased to be tenants over the suit property

 and as such claimed ownership by way of adverse possession or

 H.P. Tenancy Act. Since suit for possession was filed after expiry

 of lease i.e. 10.7.1989 by the plaintiffs terming defendants in

 unauthorized occupation in leased premises, defendants

 challenged the title of the plaintiffs in garb of Civil Suits No.38-

 S/1 of 95/81, titled: Shri Gurudwara Laj Ajit Memorial Sabha

 through its President Shri Nanak Singh vs. Shri Gurudwara

 Singh Sabha, Cart Road, Motor Stand Shimla & Another and Civil

 Suit No.6-S/1 of 96/83 titled: Ajit Lajwanti Gujral Trust &

 Others vs. Shri Nanak Singh Gandhi & others, allegedly filed by

 Nanak Singh and Parveen Singh against the present plaintiffs,

 wherein they claimed themselves to be owners in possession of

 the suit property by way of adverse possession. 44. Perusal of averments contained in the aforesaid

 paras of the written statement clearly suggests that after

 . 10.7.1989, i.e. after expiry of lease, defendants claimed

 themselves to be the owners of the suit property in question. In

 para-11, as referred hereinabove, defendants specifically stated

 that after the death of Smt.Lajwanti replying defendants

 themselves stopped making payment of rent and they started

 of
 treating themselves to be owners of the suit property. Defendants

 further stated that they have acquired ownership right in the suit
 rt
 property by way of adverse possession as they have openly been

 holding themselves out as owners of the said property after

 August, 1970. Rather, defendants raised the plea of having

 become owners of the suit property by virtue of provisions of Tenancy Act , as they were tenant in the suit property on the date

 of coming into operation of the said Act. Defendants further

 claimed that ownership rights have vested upon them as per

 provisions of Section 104 of the H.P. Tenancy Act. 45. After bestowing my thoughtful consideration on the

 aforesaid factual matrix as well as pleadings (referred

 hereinabove) made by the parties, I am of the view that after

 expiry of lease i.e. 10.7.1989, defendants cannot claim

 themselves to be tenant over the suit property because admittedly

 after 10.7.1989, at no point of time, lease was renewed, rather ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 36 defendants themselves challenged the status of plaintiff No.2,

 who admittedly acquired the status of owner in terms of will

 . executed by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral. 46. Though perusal of plaint itself suggests that

 plaintiffs filed a suit for recovery of possession against defendants

 on three grounds; (i) that lease granted by predecessor-in-interest

 of the plaintiff No.2 in favour of defendant No.1 stands

 of
 determined by efflux of time; (ii) there is forfeiture of lease due to

 non-payment of arrears of rent since month of August, 1970 by
 rt
 defendant No.1 to plaintiff No.2 and (iii) period of lease has

 expired and plaintiffs have no intention either to extend the

 period of lease or to have the property occupied by defendants. But, apart from above, defendants themselves in their written

 statement claimed themselves to be the owners of the property by

 way of adverse possession. In written statement filed by

 defendants, they specifically claimed that after death of

 Smt.Lajwanti, they have become owners of the property by way of

 adverse possession or in the alternative by way of conferment of

 proprietary rights under H.P. Tenancy Act; meaning thereby that

 after 10.7.1989 there was no relationship, whatsoever, of landlord

 and tenant between plaintiffs and defendants and both the

 parties admitted the aforesaid fact in their respective pleadings

 filed before the learned trial Court below. It stands proved on ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 37 record that issue with regard to execution of will by late

 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral as well as acquiring of status of owner of the

 . property pursuant to will by Shri Rajender Singh, stands decided

 by passing of judgment Ex.PW-1/S which has got approval up till

 Hon'ble Apex Court. Hence, in view of above, defendants cannot

 be allowed to raise plea that since they were tenants of Lajwanti

 Gujral, they can be evicted only in accordance with law after

 of
 issuance of notification dated 2.8.2006. Moreover, learned

 District Judge vide impugned judgment categorically held
 rt
 defendants in unauthorized possession after 10.7.1989 and

 interestingly in the present appeal, there is no challenge,

 whatsoever, to the aforesaid findings of learned first appellate

 Court holding defendants in unauthorized possession after

 10.7.1989. Rather, careful perusal of grounds of appeal clearly

 suggests that till the filing of appeal, appellants-defendants had

 been claiming themselves to be in adverse possession of the suit

 property. At this stage, it would be appropriate to reproduce

 paras 4 and 5 of the grounds of appeal:- 47. Careful perusal of grounds of appeal clearly suggests

 that defendants themselves denied the relationship of tenant and

 landlord, if any, between them and plaintiffs because in the

 present appeal, defendants have not acknowledged the title of

 plaintiff No.2. Since appellants themselves have not admitted the

 relationship of landlord and tenant in the written statement as

 well as in the present appeal, they are estopped to contend at this

 stage that suit has become infructuous and the provisions of H.P.

 Rent Act are applicable. Bare perusal of written statement, as

 has been discussed above, clearly suggests that at no point of time

 defendants acknowledged the title of plaintiff No.2, rather they ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 39 claimed themselves to be the owners of the suit property by way

 of adverse possession. As of today question of title in favour of

 . plaintiffs has attained finality up to Hon'ble Supreme Court and

 Plaintiff-Trust has been held to be owner of the property in

 question. It may be noticed that factum of passing judgment

 Ex.PW-1/S and its having attained finality till Hon'ble Apex Court

 has not been disputed by the learned counsel for the parties

 of
 present before this Court in this case. 48. In the aforesaid circumstances, by no stretch of
 rt
 imagination, appellants can be held to be tenants, if any, in terms

 of lease executed in the year 1969, which admittedly expired on

 10.7.1989. Possession of appellants after 10.7.1989 is definitely

 unauthorized and in no terms they can be termed as tenants in

 any capacity so as to invoke the provisions of Rent Act . No doubt,

 appeal filed by the parties is continuation of the original

 proceedings, but in the present case pendency of appeal may not

 be the ground available to the appellants to claim the status of

 tenant because admittedly as has been discussed above after

 10.7.1989 appellants-defendants at best can be termed as

 trespassers but definitely not tenants. Hence continuation of

 present appeal arising out of Civil Suit No.411/1 of 95/90,

 which is subject matter of this appeal, may not be of any

 consequence as far as inclusion of area of suit property in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 40 Municipal Corporation, Shimla, during the pendency of present

 appeal in terms of notification dated 2.8.2006, is concerned. . 49. In view of above, this Court sees no force in the

 prayer made by the appellant in CMP No.9199 of 2015, whereby

 permission has been sought to place on record copy of

 notification dated 2.8.2006. Accordingly, the same is dismissed. 50. Similarly, in view of detailed discussion made

 of
 hereinabove, prayer made by the appellant in CMP No.3363 of

 2016 for framing additional issue with regard to effect, if any, of
 rt
 the inclusion of the suit property in urban area of the Municipal

 Corporation, Shimla, cannot be allowed. However, perusal of

 substantial question No.2 framed on 20.9.2005 i.e. "Whether a

 suit can be maintained against a Trust in the absence of

 trustee?", clearly suggests that same has not been framed

 properly, keeping in view the facts of the case. Hence, this

 application is partly allowed. 51. Admittedly, in the present case, suit has been filed

 by Trust against the defendants, whereas, perusal of substantial

 question of law No.2 suggests that suit has been filed against

 Trust which is factually incorrect. In view of above, prayer of

 applicant for reframing issue No.2 has considerable force,

 accordingly, same is reframed as under:- 52. Since this Court has come to conclusion while
 deciding application under Order 42 Rule 27 CPC , as has been
 referred hereinabove, preferred on behalf of applicants-appellants

 . that appellants cannot be held to be tenants, if any, in terms of

 lease executed in the year 1969, which admittedly expired on
 10.7.1989, there is no question, if any, of applicability of H.P.

 Rent Act in terms of notification dated 2.8.2006 issued by State of
 Himachal Pradesh including therein area of suit property in MC,
 Shimla. Accordingly, aforesaid judgments having been relied

 of
 upon on behalf of the applicants-appellants in this regard may
 not be of any help in view of aforesaid findings returned by the
 Court and as such same are not being discussed. rt 53. Now this Court would be adverting to the merits of
 the case on the basis of following substantial questions of law

 No.1 and 3, already framed on 20.9.2005, and newly re-framed
 substantial question No.2: 3. Whether a judgment, which is not inter-se between
 the parties, can form basis of a decree on the ground

 of resjudicata?" evidence and there is no reliable evidence led by the defendants to

 prove the absence of title with the plaintiffs. Learned first

 appellate Court further concluded that presumption of truth

 attached to the Jamabandi has not been rebutted, rather,

 documents placed on record by the plaintiffs do prove existence of

 of
 title; firstly with Shri Rajinder Singh and subsequently, on

 execution of trust deed, with plaintiff No.1. Accordingly, learned
 rt
 first appellate Court while placing reliance upon judgment Ex.PW- 1/S, tendered in evidence by plaintiff before trial Court, came to

 the conclusion that plaintiff No.1 is entitled to possession of the

 suit property on the strength of title which stands duly proved on

 record after 10.7.1989 when the possession of the appellants- defendants became unauthorized. 56. In the present case, as emerged from the record,

 plaintiffs filed a suit for recovery of possession in the Court of

 learned Sub Judge Ist Class claiming themselves to be the owners

 of the property, descriptions whereof have been given above,

 specifically stating therein that Smt.Lajwanti Gujral wife of

 Sardar Ajit Singh, erstwhile owner of the suit property, had

 created lease for 20 years in respect of the suit property in favour

 of defendants. Plaintiffs further claimed that in the year 1970 ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 43 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral died, but during her life time she made a will

 bequeathing her entire property including suit property in favour

 . of plaintiff No.2. Since late Sardar Ajit Singh wanted to create

 some charitable Trust in respect of part of his property, plaintiff

 No.2, after becoming the owner of the entire property of Lajwanti

 Gujral on the basis of will, solely with a view to honour their wish,

 created a Trust in the name of Ajit Lajwanti Gujral Trust, Kachi

 of
 Ghati, Taradevi, Shimla. Since plaintiff No.2 entered into the

 steps of late Smt.Lajwanti, he requested defendant No.1 who was
 rt
 lessee under Lajwanti Gujral to attorn in his favour, but

 defendant No.1 instead of accepting the request of plaintiff No.2

 asked him to get his title clear from the Court. Defendants by

 way of written statement refuted the claim of plaintiff No.2 having

 acquired the title of the property on the strength of will executed

 by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral. Defendants specifically stated in the

 written statement that the suit is liable to be stayed under Section 10 CPC for the reasons that matter in issue in the present

 suit is directly and substantially is issue in previously instituted

 two civil suits with respect to the same property between the

 plaintiffs on one hand and Nanak Singh Gandhi, Parveen Singh

 and Gurudwara Lal Ajit Memorial Sabha, Kachi Ghati, Shimla on

 the other hand in Civil Suits No.44 of 1983, titled: Ajit Lajwanti

 Gujral Trust and Others vs. Nanak Singh Gandhi and Others and ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 44 Civil Suit No.12 of 1981, titled: Gurudweara Lal Ajit Memorial

 Sabha vs. Gurdwara Singh Sabha etc. Defendants further stated

 . that in the aforesaid pending civil suits before this Court, the

 parties are claiming title to the properties of Shri Ajit Singh and

 as such dispute with respect to the title of the suit property and

 estate of Shri Ajit Singh, original owner, is sub-judice before this

 Court between the plaintiffs on one hand and aforesaid persons

 of
 on the other hand and as such the suit is directly hit by Section

 10 CPC and is liable to be stayed till judicial finding is given
 rt
 regarding title of the suit property. 57. Careful perusal of the written statement, relevant

 paras of which have already been reproduced above, also

 suggests that appellants-defendants also challenged the authority

 of late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral to execute a will of the suit property

 including suit property in favour of plaintiff No.2. Defendants by

 way of written statement also stated that there does not exist any

 Trust as claimed by plaintiffs and there has been no proper legal

 or valid transfer of the suit property in favour of so-called Trust

 and as such suit being neither competent nor maintainable

 should be dismissed. Defendants specifically in para-8 of the

 written statement stated that since litigation in this Court i.e.

 Civil Suit No.13 of 1981 and Civil Suit No.44 of 1983 claiming the

 title of the suit property and other properties of late Sardar Ajit ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 45 Singh are pending, wherein question with regard to title of the

 suit property and will of Smt.Lajwanti Gujral in favour of plaintiff

 . No.2 is under challenge, is pending, recording of name of plaintiff

 No.2 in revenue records on the basis of will of Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral is not binding upon them. Defendants further stated that

 as there was no lawful and rightful claimant to the estate of

 Sardar Ajit Singh, after the death of Smt.Lajwanti, they had no

 of
 option but to stop payment of rent. But, most interestingly in

 paras 11 and 15 of the written statement, as have been
 rt
 reproduced above, defendants totally denied the status of

 landlord being clamed by plaintiffs by stating that after death of

 Smt.Lajwanti they have stopped making payment of rent in the

 absence of any lawful claimant and they started treating

 themselves to be owners of the suit property, since they have

 acquired ownership rights of the suit property by way of adverse

 possession. Defendants specifically stated that they have openly

 been holding themselves to be the owners of the said property

 after August, 1970. Apart from above, defendants-appellants

 claimed that they have become owners of the property by virtue of

 provisions of Tenancy Act by operation of law as they were

 tenants in the suit property on the date of coming into operation

 of the said Act. Since defendants while refuting the claim of the

 plaintiffs put forth in plaint specifically referred two civil suits, as ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 46 mentioned above, wherein admittedly present plaintiffs were

 parties either in capacity of plaintiffs or in capacity of defendants,

 . plaintiffs with a view to prove that late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral had

 executed will bequeathing her entire property including suit

 property in favour of plaintiff No.2 and further to prove that

 plaintiff No.2 after acquiring status of owner created Trust i.e.

 plaintiff No.1 tendered judgment passed by Additional District

 of
 Judge, Shimla in the suits referred hereinabove as Ex.PW-1/S.

 At this stage, it may be noticed that initially aforesaid suits were
 rt
 filed before this Court, but lateron for want of pecuniary

 jurisdiction the same were transferred to the District Judge. Perusal of judgment Ex.PW-1/S clearly suggests that all the

 issues i.e. (i) with regard to execution of will by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral in favour of plaintiff No.2 Rajinder Singh Gujral; (ii)

 creation of Trust by plaintiff No.2 after acquiring the status of

 owner on the strength of will executed by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral, were duly approved in favour of plaintiff. Since this Court

 had an occasion to peruse judgment dated 16.1.1998, which was

 duly exhibited by trial Court as Ex.PW-1/S, it can be safely stated

 that all the issues as referred above were decided in favour of the

 plaintiffs. Learned Court of Additional District Judge, Shimla,

 vide judgment dated 16th January, 1998 concluded that Lajwanti

 Gujral had executed valid will bequeathing her entire property ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 47 including suit property in favour of plaintiff No.2, who rightly

 acquired the status of owner on the strength of said will. While

 . deciding the civil suit, referred hereinabove, learned Additional

 District Judge specifically stated that Rajinder Singh Gujral had

 all authority to create Trust i.e. Shri Gurdwara Lal Ajit Sabha

 Trust, Kachi Ghati, Taradevi, Shimla. Plaintiffs with an intention

 to prove that they have acquired the status of owner of the suit

 of
 property on the strength of will executed by late Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral as well as thereafter creation of Trust by plaintiff No.2
 rt
 placed on record the aforesaid judgment Ex.PW-1/S. But perusal

 of judgment passed by the trial Court in the present case

 suggests that the same was not taken into cognizance by Court

 below on the ground that the plaintiffs have not shown as to

 under which provisions of law, the judgment is relevant in this

 case and can be relied upon by the plaintiffs to prove that the

 plaintiff No.1 is a Trust and juristic person. Learned trial Court

 also concluded that the suit in which the judgment was passed, it

 was alleged by the plaintiffs in the plaint that these suits had no

 bearing on the present suit. Accordingly, learned trial Court

 concluded that this judgment is thus, not shown to be relevant

 under Sections 10, 11 CPC or Sections 41, 42, 43 or Section 116

 of the Evidence Act and as such judgment being a judgment-in- personam cannot prove the title of plaintiff No.1, whereas, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 48 learned first appellate Court while allowing the appeal placed

 reliance upon the judgment passed by Hon'ble Apex Court in

 . Srinivas vs. Narayanan, AIR 1954 SC 379, wherein it has been

 held:- 58. Reliance has also been placed upon the judgment of

 Hon'ble Apex Court in Tirumala Tirupati Devathanams vs.

 K.M. Krishnaiah , AIR 1998 SC 1132, wherein the Court has

 held as under:- of 59. Appellants-defendants, by way of instant petition,
 rt
 laid challenge to the judgment passed by learned Additional

 District Judge on the ground that Ex.PW-1/S is not permissible

 or relevant unless it fulfill the mandatory requirement of Sections

 42 and 43 of the Evidence Act. Mr.Sood, learned Senior Counsel

 appearing for the appellants-defendants, vehemently argued that

 judgment which is not inter parte could not be made admissible

 in evidence except for limited purpose for bringing them to array

 as parties in the earlier case and such decree passed in such case

 with respect to the property. As per Mr.Sood, document Ex.PW- 1/S, which is judgment and decree dated 16.1.1998 passed by

 Additional District Judge in Civil Suits as referred above , was not

 inter parte and as such specifically in terms of Evidence Act , it

 was neither admissible in evidence in the present case nor it

 operated as res judicata between the parties and as such he ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 50 prayed for setting aside and quashing of the impugned judgment

 passed by learned Court below. . 60. On the other hand, Mr.Bhupender Gupta, learned

 Senior Counsel for the plaintiffs, vehemently argued that there is

 no illegality and infirmity in the judgment passed by learned first

 appellate Court below where it has placed reliance upon judgment

 Ex.PW-1/S. With a view to substantiate the aforesaid arguments,

 of
 Mr.Gupta invited the attention of this Court to the written

 statement filed by the defendants, wherein they specifically
 rt
 prayed for stay of the suit on the ground of pendency of two Civil

 Suits No.38-S/1 of 95/81, titled: Shri Gurudwara Lal Ajit

 Memorial Sabha through Shri Nanak Singh vs. Shri Gurudwara

 Singh Sabha, Cart Road, Shimla and Civil Suit No.6-S/1 of 96/83

 titled: Ajit Lajwanti Gujral Trust vs. Shri Nanak Singh Gandhi

 specifically stating that since there was a dispute with regard to

 title of the suit property, same may be stayed till disposal of the

 aforesaid suits. As per Mr.Gupta, since by way of aforesaid

 judgment Ex.PW-1/S issue with regard to title, execution of will

 by late Smt.Lajwanti and creation of Trust by plaintiff No.2 stood

 determined, tendering of aforesaid judgment in evidence had

 great importance and it could not be ignored by the trial Court

 below while deciding the suit filed by the plaintiffs. During

 arguments having been made by him, he specifically referred to ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:42 :::HCHP 51 Section 43 of the Indian Evidence Act to state that judgment,

 order, or decree, which is a "fact in issue", or is relevant under

 . some other provisions of this Act can be tendered in evidence in

 terms of Section 43 . 61. As per Mr.Gupta, controversy decided vide judgment

 Ex.PW-1/S was/is a "fact in issue" in the present suit and as

 such same was ought to have been taken into consideration by

 of
 the trial Court below and as such there is no illegality and

 infirmity in the judgment passed by learned first Appellate Court,
 rt
 where he while allowing the appeal specifically took cognizance of

 Ex.PW-1/S. 62. In the aforesaid background, this Court solely with a

 view to test the correctness and genuineness of the arguments

 having been made on behalf of both the parties deems it fit to

 refer to the provisions of Sections 40 to 43 of the Indian Evidence

 Act, 1872, which are reproduced here-in-below:- 63. Perusal of Section 40 suggests that existence of any

 judgment, order or decree which by law prevents any Courts from

 taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial is a relevant fact

 when the question is whether such Court ought to take

 cognizance of such suit, or to hold such trial. 64. But, Section 41 provides that judgment, order or

 decree of a competent Court, in the exercise of probate,

 . matrimonial admiralty or insolvency jurisdiction is relevant and

 as such judgment, order or decree is conclusive proof, whereas Section 42 specifically provides that judgments, orders or decrees

 other than those mentioned in section 41 are relevant, if they

 relate to matters of a public nature relevant to the enquiry; but

 of
 such judgments, orders or decrees are not conclusive proof of

 that which they state. 65.
 rt
 Close scrutiny of aforesaid Sections 40 , 41 and 42 clearly suggests that judgment, order or decree of a competent

 Court, in exercise of probate, matrimonial admiralty or insolvency

 jurisdiction has relevance in other cases and can be a conclusive

 proof while determining the controversy/case in other pending

 cases. 66. Section 42 clearly bars placing reliance on

 judgments, orders or decrees other than as mentioned in Section 41. But Section 43 specifically provides that judgments, orders

 or decrees other than mentioned in Sections 40 , 41 and 42 are

 irrelevant, unless the existence of such judgment, order or decree,

 is a "fact in issue", or is "relevant" under some other provisions of

 this Act; meaning thereby that the judgments, orders or decrees

 other than as mentioned in Sections 40 , 41 , and 42 can be placed ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 54 reliance in pending proceedings of other suit, if the existence of

 such judgments, orders or decrees is a "fact in issue" or "relevant" . under some other provisions of this Act. 67. Now, it would be profitable to refer to the meaning of

 expression "Facts in Issue", as prescribed in Section 3 of Indian

 Evidence Act, which is reproduced here-in-below: 68. Careful perusal of expression "Facts in Issue" as

 prescribed in Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act suggests that

 "facts in issue" means and includes any fact from which, either by

 itself or in connection with other facts, the existence, non- existence, nature, or extent of any right, liability, or disability,

 asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding, necessarily follows. 69. If, in the present case, facts are analyzed in light of

 aforesaid legal position, it clearly emerge from reading of Section

 43 of the Act that judgments, orders or decrees other than those

 mentioned in Sections 40 , 41 and 42 can also be placed reliance,

 if the existence of such judgments, orders or decrees is a "fact in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 55 issue" or is relevant under other provisions of this Act. Similarly,

 perusal of Section 3 wherein facts in issue has been defined

 . suggests that any fact from which, either by itself or in

 connection with other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature,

 or extent of any right, liability, or disability asserted or denied in

 any suit or proceedings necessarily follows. Explanation of "Facts

 in issue" further provides that whenever, under the provisions of

 of
 the law for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, any

 Court records an "issue of fact", the fact to be asserted or denied
 rt
 in the answer to such issue, is a "fact in issue". 70. Plain reading of aforesaid definition of "Facts in issue" 71. In the present case, as has been discussed in detail,

 plaintiffs sought recovery of possession of the suit property on the

 expiry of lease deed dated 10.7.1989. Whereas defendants have

 denied the claim of the plaintiffs by stating that since issue with

 regard to the title of the suit property is pending before Court by

 way of civil suits, referred hereinabove, proceedings initiated by

 the plaintiffs or recovery of possession may be stayed. Defendants also disputed the status of the plaintiffs by claiming ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 56 themselves to be the owners of the suit property in terms of

 adverse possession or in the alternative by way of proprietary

 . rights. Since defendants specifically objected the suit on the

 ground of pendency of aforesaid suits, wherein issue with regard

 to execution of will by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral, who had leased

 out the property in favour of defendants, acquiring the title of

 owner by plaintiff No.2, on the strength of will executed by

 of
 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral and creation of Trust by plaintiff No.2 was

 pending before Court of learned Additional District Judge, who
 rt
 vide judgment Ex.PW-1/S held the plaintiff No.2 to be the owner

 of the suit on the strength of validly executed will, by late

 Smt.Lajwanti Gujral, learned trial Court ought to have taken note

 of Ex.PW-1/S which was duly tendered by the plaintiff in the

 evidence in the suit filed for recovery of possession. Since

 controversy decided vide judgment Ex.PW-1/S had direct bearing

 on the present suit filed by the plaintiffs, plaintiffs rightly placed

 reliance on the same by tendering the same as Ex.PW-1/S.

 Admittedly, vide Ex.PW-1/S learned Additional District Judge,

 decided the issue of title, execution of will and creation of Trust,

 which had direct bearing on the present, suit, wherein defendants

 themselves refuted the claim of plaintiffs on the aforesaid ground

 which were admittedly decided vide judgment Ex.PW-1/S in

 favour of plaintiffs. Moreover, perusal of aforesaid civil suits, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 57 wherein judgment Ex.PW-1/S was passed, present plaintiffs were

 the parties either in the shape of plaintiffs or in defendants. . Section 43 of the Evidence Act specifically provides that judgment

 other than those mentioned in Sections 40 , 41 , and 42 are

 irrelevant, unless the existence of such judgment, order or decree,

 is a "fact in issue", or is relevant under some other provisions of

 this Act. In the instant case, as has clearly emerged from the

 of
 pleadings available on record, findings returned by the learned

 Additional District Judge vide Ex.PW-1/S was "fact in issue" 72. In view of the aforesaid discussion, especially where

 defendants sought stay/dismissal of suit filed by plaintiff on the

 ground of pendency of suits, wherein learned Additional District

 Judge, passed judgment Ex.PW-1/S, this Court is of the view that ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 58 document Ex.PW-1/S i.e. judgment passed by the learned

 Additional District Judge had great relevance in the present suit

 . and same could be placed reliance in terms of Section 43 of the

 Indian Evidence Act being a "fact in issue" and as such this Court

 sees no illegality and infirmity in the findings returned by the

 learned appellate Court, whereby while allowing the appeal

 preferred on behalf of the plaintiffs, it placed reliance upon

 of
 document Ex.PW-1/S. Section 13 of the Indian Evidence Act,

 1872 is reproduced hereinbelow: 73. Apart from above, perusal of judgment relied upon by

 the learned first appellate Court while allowing the appeal clearly

 suggests that the judgment not inter parte is also admissible in

 evidence under Section 13 of the Evidence Act, as evidence on

 assertion of a right to property in dispute. In the case, referred

 above, contention that judgments other than those falling under Sections 40 to 44 of the Evidence Act were not admissible in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 59 evidence was expressly rejected. Hon'ble Apex Court held that

 previous judgment, which is not inter partes, was admissible in

 . evidence under Section 13 of the Evidence Act. Hon'ble Apex

 Court specifically dealing with the suit for recovery of possession

 in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder vs. Arulmigu

 Viswesaraswami and V.P. Temple and another , AIR 2003 SC

 4548 held that in the suit for recovery of possession based on

 of
 title it is upon to the plaintiff to prove his title and satisfy the

 Court that he, in law, is entitled to dispossess the defendant from
 rt
 his possession over the suit property and for the possession to be

 restored with him. 74. In the present case also Ex.PW-1/S was the most

 effective and valid document with the plaintiff to prove his title

 and satisfy the Court that he, in law, is entitled to dispossess the

 defendant from his possession over the suit property and as such

 this Court is of the view that learned trial Court committed

 illegality by not placing reliance upon Ex.PW-1/S which could be

 tendered in evidence in terms of Section 43 being "fact in issue". 75. At this stage Mr.Ajay Kumar Sood, learned Senior

 Counsel, representing the appellants-defendants , placed reliance

 upon the following judgments passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court

 to substantiate his argument that no reliance, if any, could be ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 60 placed upon Ex.PW-1/S in terms of Sections 40 to 43 of Evidence

 Act. . 76. In S.P.E. Madras vs. K.V. Sundaravelu , AIR 1978

 SC 1017, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held: of
 Here again, the High Court lost sight of the
 provisions of sections 40 to 44 of the Evidence
 Act which state the circumstances in which
 previous judgments are relevant in civil and
 criminal cases. Thus section 40 states the
 rtcircumstances in which a previous judgment
 may be relevant to bar a second suit or trial, and
 has no application to the present case for the
 obvious reason that no judgment, order or decree

 is said to be in existence in this case which
 could in law be said to prevent the Sessions
 Court from holding the trial. Section 41 deals
 with the relevancy of certain judgments in
 probate, matrimonial, admiralty or insolvency

 jurisdiction and is equally inapplicable. Section
 42 deals with the relevancy and effect of
 judgments, orders or decrees other than those
 mentioned in section 41 in so far as they relate
 to matters of a public nature, and is again

 inapplicable to the present case. Then comes section 43 which clearly states that judgments,

 orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in sections 40 , 41 and 42 , are irrelevant, unless
 the existence of such judgment, order or decree
 is a fact in issue, or is relevant under some other

 provisions of the Act. As it has not been shown
 that the judgment in Sessions Case No. 34 of
 1968 could be said to be relevant under the
 other provisions of the Evidence Act , it was
 clearly "irrelevant" and could not have been
 taken into consideration by the High Court for
 the purpose of making the impugned order. The
 remaining section 44 deals with fraud or
 collusion in obtaining a judgment, or in
 competency of a court which delivered it, and
 can possibly have no application in the present
 case. It would thus appear that the High Court ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 61 not only lost sight of the above facts, but also
 ignored the provisions of section 215 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure and thus committed an
 error of law in basing the impugned judgment on

 . a judgment which was clearly irrelevant." (p.1019) 77. There cannot be any quarrel with regard to the law as laid down by their Lordships in aforesaid case wherein it has

 been reiterated that the High Court lost sight of the provisions of

 of Sections 40 to 44 of the Evidence Act which state the

 circumstances in which previous judgments are relevant in civil
 rt
 and criminal cases. Admittedly Section 41 deals with the

 relevancy of certain judgments in probate, matrimonial, admiralty

 or insolvency jurisdiction and is equally inapplicable. Section 42 deals with the relevancy and effect of judgments, orders or

 decrees other than those mentioned in Section 41 in so far as

 those relate to matters of a public nature. Similarly, Section 43 provides that judgments, orders or decrees, other than those

 mentioned in Sections 40 , 41 and 42 , are irrelevant, unless the

 existence of such judgment, order or decree is a "fact in issue", or

 is relevant under some other provisions of the Act. 78. In the present case, aforesaid judgment cannot be

 made applicable, especially in view of the distinction carved in Section 43 of the India Evidence Act, wherein it has been

 specifically provided that judgments, orders or decrees other than

 those mentioned in Sections 40 to 44 are irrelevant unless the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 62 existence of such judgment, order or decree is a "fact in issue". It

 has been discussed in detail in the present case that judgment

 . Ex.PW-1/S has direct bearing on the present suit filed by the

 plaintiffs and issue decided in the same was "fact in issue" in the

 present suit and same ought to have been placed reliance by the

 trial Court while dealing with the suit filed by the plaintiffs. 79. In State of Bihar and others vs. Sri Radha

 of
 Krishna Singh and others , AIR 1983 SC 684, Hon'ble

 Supreme Court has held as under:- (p.710) 80. This Court, after perusing the aforesaid judgment

 relied upon by the appellants, sees no reason to differ with the

 proposition of law laid down and deems it fit to refer to the other

 relevant paras of this judgment, wherein Hon'ble Apex Court

 while dealing with the aforesaid Section of Indian Evidence Act

 carved out principles to be followed while applying aforesaid

 Sections: 143. Thus, summarising the ratio of the authorities
 mentioned above, the position that emerges and
 the principles that are deducible from the

 aforesaid decisions are as follows:- . (5) Statements, declarations or depositions,
 etc., would not be admissible if they are
 post litem motam." (pp.712 & 714) 81. Close scrutiny of aforesaid paras of the judgment

 of
 clearly suggests that judgments in personam not inter partes are

 not at all admissible in evidence except for three purposes:- (a) rt
 Firstly, to ascertain what the parties were and what
 was the decree passed and the properties which were

 subject matter of the suit, meaning thereby that there
 is no complete bar in placing reliance on the judgment
 which was not inter partes, rather reliance can be
 placed on the judgment while tendering the same is

 evidence to prove what the parties were and what was
 the decree passed and the properties which were the

 subject matter of the suit. In the present case,
 admittedly, one of the party i.e. plaintiff was party to

 the judgment passed in Ex.PW-1/S. (b) Secondly, by placing reliance upon aforesaid judgment
 Ex.PW-1/S, plaintiffs intended to prove that who were
 parties before the Court in that suit; and (c) Thirdly, what was the decree passed and the property
 which was subject matter of the suit. In the present
 case, admittedly, for these three reasons, as have been
 culled out in aforesaid judgment, judgment passed ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 65 vide Ex.PW-1/S was admissible in evidence, especially
 when defendants themselves sought stay/dismissal of
 the suit on the ground of pendency of suit, referred

 . hereinabove, wherein judgment Ex.PW-1/S was

 passed. Defendants, by way of written statement
 specifically challenged the title of the plaintiffs by

 claiming themselves to be the owners of the property. 82. Apart from above, defendants specifically stated that

 of
 since suit with regard to title is pending before the Court, instant

 suit filed by the plaintiffs for recovery of possession may be stayed
 rt
 or dismissed in terms of Section 10 of CPC. 83. In the aforesaid background, judgment Ex.PW-1/S

 could be best evidence available with the plaintiff to demonstrate

 that he has acquired the title of the property by way of execution

 of valid will by Smt.Lajwanti Gujral and as such it can be safely

 concluded that judgment Ex.PW-1/S is admissible in terms of Section 43 of the Indian Evidence Act being fact in issue. 84. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Rajan Rai vs. State of

 Bihar , (2006)1 SCC 191, has held as under:- In that case, after laying down the law, the
 Court further considered as to whether the High
 Court was justified in converting the conviction
 of accused Karan Singh from Section 302/ 149 to

 one under Section 302 read with section 34 IPC
 after recording a finding that the murder was
 committed by Ram Hans in furtherance of

 common intention of both himself and accused
 Karan Singh. This Court was of the view that in
 spite of the fact that accused Ram Hans was
 acquitted by the trial court and his acquittal

 attained finality, it was open to the High Court,
 as an appellate court, while considering appeal
 of accused Karan Singh, to consider evidence
 recorded in the trial of Karan Singh only for a
 limited purpose to find out as to whether Karan
 Singh could have shared common intention with
 accused Ram Hans to commit murder of the
 deceased, though the same could not have
 otherwise affected the acquittal of Ram Hans. In
 view of the foregoing discussion, we are clearly
 of the view that the judgment of acquittal
 rendered in the trial of other four accused ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 69 persons is wholly irrelevant in the appeal
 arising out of trial of appellant Rajan Rai as the
 said judgment was not admissible under the
 provisions of Sections 40 to 44 of the Evidence

 . Act. Every case has to be decided on the evidence
 adduced therein. Case of the four acquitted

 accused persons was decided on the basis of
 evidence led there while case of the present
 appellant has to be decided only on the basis of
 evidence adduced during the course of his trial." (pp.194-197)

 of 85. In view of detailed analysis of pleadings available

 on record as well as law referred hereinabove, this Court is of
 rt
 the view that Ex.PW-1/S was admissible to be tendered in

 evidence in terms of Section 43 of Evidence Act being "fact in

 issue". At the cost of repetition, it may be stated that

 defendants themselves prayed for stay of the suit on the

 grounds of Civil Suit Nos.44/83 and 12/81, wherein

 judgment Ex.PW-1/S was passed, meaning thereby that the

 decision in suits referred hereinabove had direct bearing on

 the suit filed by the plaintiffs against the present appellants- defendants. 86. At this stage, it would be appropriate to refer to

 para-1 of preliminary objections of the written statement,

 which has been reproduced above, wherein defendants

 themselves stated that present suit is liable to be stayed

 under Section 10 of CPC for the reasons that the matter in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 70 issue in the present suit is also directly in issue in previously

 instituted two civil suit with regard to the same property

 . between the plaintiffs on one hand and Nanak Singh Gandhi

 on the other hand. Since defendants themselves stated that

 the matter in issue in the present suit is directly and

 substantially in issue in previously instituted two civil suits

 No.44/83 and 12/81, wherein admittedly present plaintiffs

 of
 were party, they cannot be allowed to state at this stage that

 the judgment passed by learned Additional District Judge in
 rt
 aforesaid civil suits, referred in para-1 of preliminary

 objections by defendants, cannot be relied upon in present

 suit in terms of Sections 41 , 42 and 43 of Indian Evidence

 Act. Rather, keeping in view the candid admission made by

 the defendants in written statement, wherein defendants

 themselves admitted that the matter in issue in the present

 suit is directly and substantially in issue in previously

 instituted civil suits, this Court is of the view that learned

 first appellate Court rightly placed reliance upon the

 judgment Ex.PW-1/S passed in the aforesaid civil suits,

 which had admittedly direct bearing upon the present suit

 filed by the plaintiffs. Hence, this Court after seeing Ex.PW- 1/S as well as pleadings of the parties i.e. plaint and written

 statement has no hesitation to conclude that learned first ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 71 appellate Court placed reliance on the judgment Ex.PW-1/S

 in the present proceedings in terms of Section 43 being "fact

 . in issue". Substantial question of law No.3 is answered

 accordingly. Questions No.1 and 2: 87. Now, this Court would be adverting to

 of
 substantial questions No.1 and 2. This Court, while

 exploring answer to substantial question No.3, had an
 rt
 occasion to travel through the entire evidence, be it oral or

 documentary, on record adduced by the parties and as such

 it sees no force in the submissions having been made on

 behalf of learned counsel representing the appellants- defendants that Courts below have fallen in error while

 appreciating the evidence adduced on record. Shri Ajay

 Kumar Sood had strenuously argued that first appellate

 Court has not dealt with the evidence in its right perspective,

 rather he has acted with material illegality and irregularity in

 passing the impugned judgment and decree. He also stated

 that learned first appellate Court, while passing impugned

 judgment and decree, mis-interpreted the law as applicable

 to the facts of the present case and as such prayed for

 quashing of the impugned judgment. Since this Court while ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 72 answering question No.3 has already dealt with issue of

 application of Sections 41 , 42 and 43 of the Indian Evidence

 . Act to ascertain the correctness and genuineness of the

 judgment passed by the learned first appellate Court and

 has been held that Ex.PW-1/S could be placed reliance in

 terms of Section 41 being fact in issue, it sees no force in the

 contention put forth on behalf of the appellants-defendants. of
 While answering question No.3 it has been already held that

 there is no illegality and irregularity in the judgment passed
 rt
 by the learned first appellate Court wherein he allowed the

 appeal of the present plaintiffs' specifically holding that

 Ex.PW-1/S could be relied upon in evidence. This Court is

 also of the view that Ex.PW-1/S could be read in evidence in

 terms of Section 43 being "fact in issue" and as such

 contention put forth on behalf of the counsel for the

 appellants that learned Court below misinterpreted the law

 has no force and is rejected in view of the detailed discussion

 made hereinabove. 88. As far as misreading of evidence, as alleged by

 the appellants-defendants, is concerned, this Court is of the

 view that since first appellate Court solely placed the reliance

 upon document Ex.PW-1/S, it had no occasion to refer to

 the other part of evidence. Once Ex.PW-1/S was taken into ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 73 consideration by the first appellate Court while accepting the

 appeal of the plaintiff, there was no need to look into the

 . other part of evidence adduced on record solely for the

 reason that bare perusal of judgment Ex.PW-1/S clearly

 suggests that plaintiff No.2 was held to be owner of the suit

 property on the strength of will, which was held to be validly

 executed by Smt.Lajwanti Gujral in favour of plaintiff No.2. of
 Similarly, perusal of Ex.PW-1/S suggests that question of

 creation of Trust by plaintiff No.1 was duly proved on record
 rt
 by the present plaintiffs in that case by placing copy of Deed

 of Trust created by plaintiff No.2 after acquiring title of

 ownership on the strength of will. Since learned first

 appellate Court held that document Ex.PW-1/S could be

 placed reliance upon, it was sufficient for that Court to

 conclude that aforesaid property belongs to validly created

 Trust, who is entitled to file suit for recovery of possession

 against defendants, who admittedly after 10.7.1989 was in

 authorized possession of the premises. 89. Apart from above, this Court had an occasion to

 peruse the statements made by the plaintiff during trial

 which clearly suggests that PW-1 Baldev Singh, who

 happened to be a President of plaintiff-Trust specifically

 placed on record copy of Jamabandi Ex.PW-1/A as well as ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 74 copy of Trust Deed mark `A' to suggest that Trust was

 created by plaintiff No.2 Rajinder Singh Gujral and on the

 . strength of same mutation was entered in favour of the Trust

 qua the suit property. He also exhibited the notice issued to

 defendants through counsel Ex.PW-1/F, receipt Ex.PW-1/G,

 H and J, acknowledgement Ex.PW-1/L and Ex.PW-1/M.

 Aforesaid PW also received reply Ex.PW-1/Q and letter

 of
 Ex.PW-1/R from the defendants. In reply to aforesaid legal

 notices got issued by PW-1 in the capacity of President of
 rt
 plaintiff Trust, defendants nowhere in their reply vide

 Ex.PW-1/Q and Ex.PW-1/R disputed the title of plaintiff

 No.1, rather vide Ex.PW-1/R they enclosed copy of opinion of

 Advocate Shri K.D. Sood, wherein he opined that till the time

 suit already pending, as referred hereinabove, is decided

 they may defer making payment of rent in favour of Shri

 Rajinder Singh Gujral, plaintiff No.2; meaning thereby that

 defendants while answering legal notice issued by the

 plaintiffs nowhere raised issue with regard to creation of

 Trust/existence of Trust after the death of Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral. Though perusal of record suggests that plaintiffs

 were not able to place on record original copy of Trust Deed

 but in his statement he categorically stated that Chairman,

 Gurudwara Singh Sabha, was ex-officio Chairman and there ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 75 were six trustees; namely; Sardar Jagat Singh, Jasbir Kaur,

 Surjit Kaur Kalra, Iqbal Singh and Sardar Jagdish. While

 . making statement he stated that Trust was made in the year

 1982, copy of which is mark `A'. He also stated that in the

 year 1969 defendants were inducted as lessee in the suit

 land by late Smt.Lajwanti Gujral. It has also come in

 statement that after becoming owner plaintiff No.2 Rajinder

 of
 Singh Gujral issued notice to the defendants and notice

 through counsel was also issued. In view of aforesaid candid
 rt
 and specific statement of PW-1 wherein he stated that after

 death of late Smt.Lajwanti, plaintiff No.2, acquired the status

 of owner and got legal notice issued to defendants asking

 them to vacate the premises and make payment of rent, this

 Court is of the view that learned trial Court was not right in

 returning the findings that the plaintiff has not proved that

 they are owners in possession of the suit land and are

 entitled to recover the possession of the suit property. Plaintiffs categorically stated with regard to creation of Trust

 and other six trustees, named above, and he also disclosed

 the names of those trustees. Even cause title of the suit

 suggests that all other trustees; namely; Smt.Jasbir Kaur,

 Giani Iqbal Singh and Smt.Surjit Kalra, were impleaded as

 proforma defendants in the suit and as such this Court sees ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 76 no illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment and

 sees no force in the contention of the counsel representing

 . the appellants-defendants. 90. Apart from above, if for the sake of arguments

 this contention put forth on behalf of the counsel

 representing the appellants is accepted that PW-1 who was

 of
 the President of plaintiff No.1-Trust was unable to prove the

 creation of Trust and authorization, if any, on behalf of Trust

 to initiate proceedings against the defendants, in that event
 rt
 also, there is plaintiff No.2 Rajinder Singh Gujral, who

 admittedly acquired the status of owner after death of

 Smt.Gujral qua the suit property, which stands duly proved

 vide judgment Ex.PW-1/S. PW-1 in his statement

 categorically stated that before the death of Smt.Lajwanti

 Gujral, she made a will in favour of plaintiff No.2 and on the

 strength of same, mutation was attested. He categorically

 stated that Rajinder Singh, plaintiff No.2, executed a trust

 deed as per wishes of his parents, and he being the

 Chairman of Gurudwara Singh Sabha filed the present suit. Since, suit in question was filed by both i.e. plaintiff No.1

 Trust and another by plaintiff No.2 who admittedly acquired

 the status of owner after the death of Smt.Lajwanti which

 stand duly proved by Ex.PW-1/S, non-placing of original ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:14:43 :::HCHP 77 Trust Deed was not of serious consequence, which could

 entail dismissal of suit by the learned trial Court below. . Leaving everything aside, when judgment Ex.PW-1/S has

 been already held admissible in evidence in terms of Section

 43 of the Indian Evidence Act, all issues regarding title

 would automatically be decided in favour of the plaintiffs. Both the questions are answered accordingly. of 91. In view of the detailed discussion made hereinabove,

 this appeal is dismissed. rt The judgment passed by the learned

 first appellate Court below is upheld and that of the learned trial

 Court is set aside and the suit filed by the plaintiffs is decreed. There shall be no order as to costs. 92. Interim order, if any, is vacated. All miscellaneous

 applications are disposed of.