1. The plaintiffs have instituted the present suit for the relief of
permanent injunction, restraining infringement of trademark, passing off,
infringement of copyright, rendition of accounts, damages, etc., against the
defendant No.1 and defendant No.2 (wife of the defendant No.1), both
proprietors of two separate firms based in Cochin. 2. Summons were issued in the suit on 3.11.2014, returnable on
15.1.2015. On the same day, an ex parte ad interim order was passed in
favour of the plaintiffs and against the defendants, restraining them from
manufacturing , selling, offering for sale, advertising, directly or indirectly
dealing in products and services which are identical or deceptively similar
to the plaintiffs‟ products and services under the trademark "IKEA" or any
other trademark which is either identical or deceptively similar in trade
dress, colour combination and layout amounting to infringement and CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 1 of 16 passing off. 3. On 15.1.2015, the service report in respect of the defendants was
awaited and fresh summons were issued to them. The defendants were duly
served through e-mail on 11.2.2015, but none appeared on their behalf; nor
did the defendants file their written statement. As a result, vide order dated
8.5.2015, they were proceeded against ex parte and the plaintiffs were
directed to file their affidavit by way of evidence along with the original
documents. Pursuant to the aforesaid order, the plaintiffs have filed an
affidavit by way of evidence of Mr. Vishal Vig (PW-1), the constituted
attorney of the plaintiff No.1, marked as Ex.PW-1A. 4. PW-1 had produced the original power of attorney appointing him as
the constituted attorney of the plaintiffs, exhibited as Ex.PW-1/1. He has
deposed that the suit had been signed and instituted by Mr. Gurjot Singh on
behalf of the plaintiff No.1, as a constituted attorney of the plaintiffs. The
signatures of Mr. Gurjot Singh have been duly identified by PW-1. The
power of attorney dated 18.7.2014, authorizing Mr. Gurjot Singh to sign
and institute the suit on behalf of plaintiff No.1 has been marked as Ex.PW-
1/2. The power of attorney executed by the Managing Director of the
plaintiff No.1, authorizing Mr. Gurjot Singh to sign on behalf of the
plaintiff No.1 has been marked as Ex.PW-1/3. PW-1 has further deposed
that Ms. Nitika Redhu and Ms. Preet Kamal have been authorized to sign
and institute the suit on behalf of the plaintiff No.2, by virtue of the minutes
of the meeting dated 27.6.2014, of the Board of Directors of the plaintiff
No.2/company, that have been marked as Ex.PW-1/4. 5. As per the narration of facts in the plaint, plaintiff No.1 is a company
organized and incorporated under the laws of Netherlands and is the owner CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 2 of 16 of the IKEA Concept, which it franchises for various IKEA stores. The
IKEA stores sell a wide range of furniture, accessories, bathrooms and
kitchen fittings, home and office furnishing products, stationery, tools and
implements and they offer various services in connection therewith. The
extracts of the websites of the plaintiff providing the details of its business
have been marked as Ex.PW-1/5. The plaintiff No.1‟s trademark "IKEA"
was coined, conceived and adopted by the founder of the plaintiff in the
year 1943. The extracts of the plaintiff No.1‟s website indicating the same
have been exhibited as Ex.PW-1/6, wherein it has been stated that the trade
name/trademark "IKEA" was conceived by the founder, Ingvar Kamprad
from his name and surname in the year 1943, by using the first letters of his
own name and surname plus the first letters of „Elmtaryd‟ and „Agunnaryd‟,
the farm and village where he was brought up. 6. The plaintiffs have filed copies of a book published by them under
the name, „The Ikea Story‟, authored by Bertil Torekull in the year 2011,
containing a chapter on how the brand name had originated. The said book
has been marked as Ex.PW-1/7. The extracts of the plaintiff‟s website that
records that it has 44 stores in Germany, followed by 40 stores in the
United States, have been collectively marked as Ex.PW-1/8. The plaintiff
No.1 is stated to be the registered proprietor of the word IKEA, IKEA label
and a unique colour combination and has secured registrations for the same
in English and Devanagri scripts, which is depicted herein below : 7. The word "IKEA" forms a part of the plaintiffs‟ trading style and is
used in the names of the Group Companies. Copies of the Certificate for
use in legal proceedings for registration of the plaintiff‟s trademark "IKEA"
have been exhibited as Ex.PW-1/9. The extracts of the website of the
Trademark Registry indicating registrations of the plaintiffs‟ trademark
have been marked as Ex.PW-1/10 (colly). A list comprising of the
international registrations of the plaintiffs‟ trademark "IKEA" in various
countries worldwide have been marked as Ex.PW-1/11. Copies of some of
the trademark registration certificates of various jurisdictions filed by the
plaintiffs have been assigned Mark-A (colly). Copies of the advertisements
and other sales and promotional literature of the plaintiffs, have been
assigned Mark-B (colly). Some of the brochures of the plaintiffs
downloaded from the internet have been marked as Ex.PW-1/12. The web
extract of articles written about the plaintiff company and updated versions
thereof have been marked as Ex.PW-1/13 (colly). 8. In his affidavit, Mr. Vishal Vig, PW-1 has deposed that the plaintiff
No.1 operates three separate companies in India from the same registered
office, namely, IKEA India Pvt. Ltd., IKEA Trading (India) Pvt. Ltd. and
IKEA Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. IKEA India Pvt. Ltd. has been impleaded
in the suit as plaintiff No.2. Plaintiff No.2 was organized and registered in
India in the year 1994 and to substantiate the said fact, the extracts from the
website of the Registrar of Companies have been filed by the plaintiffs and
marked as Ex.PW-1/14. A copy of the lease deed of the premises from
where plaintiff No.2 runs its operations, has been filed and marked as
Ex.PW-1/15 (colly). 9. Plaintiff No.1 is stated to be one of the 40 Superstar Trading Houses
in India, a special status accorded by the Government of India for
companies with trading activities in excess of INR 7 billion (USD 140
million). The plaintiff No.2 is stated to be a major regional buying centre
for the plaintiff group of companies, specializing in purchases of textiles
and fabrics from South Asia. Copies of the invoices issued by the plaintiff
No.2 to third parties have been assigned Mark-C (colly) and copies of the
articles written about the activities of the plaintiff No.2 have been assigned
Mark-D (colly). The press coverage given to the activities of the plaintiff
No.2 in India through internet extracts and articles from various India
publications have been exhibited as Ex.PW-1/20. 10. Plaintiff No.1 operates the website www.ikea.com, which
incorporates the trademark "IKEA". It is stated that the said domain name
was registered by the said plaintiff on 29.7.1995 and has been duly
renewed. Extracts from the said website have been filed and marked as
Ex.PW-1/22. An extract from the website, www.whois.com indicating that
the domain name www.ikea.com is registered in the name of the plaintiff
No.1 has been marked as Ex.PW-1/23. 11. Coming to the defendants herein, PW-1 has deposed in his affidavit
that in the month of August, 2014, the plaintiffs became aware that the
defendants were providing home interior decoration services in Cochin,
Kerala under the plaintiffs‟ mark "IKEA". Immediately thereupon, the
plaintiffs had deputed an investigator, who had visited the premises of the
defendants to determine the extent of infringement of their trademark,
"IKEA". The investigator was able to obtain photographs of the defendants‟
premises and the visiting card of the defendant No.1, which have been CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 5 of 16 marked as Ex.PW-1/24 and PW-1/25. The extract of the LinkedIn profile
of the defendant No.1 has been marked as Ex.PW-1/26. PW-1 has deposed
that the defendant No.1 has been indulging in dishonest activities of trading
to dilute the plaintiffs‟ goodwill, reputation and brand value by infringing
upon its trademark, which amounts to adoption of an unfair trade practice.
Hence, the present suit. 12. Ms. Majumder, learned counsel for the plaintiffs contends that the
defendants have adopted and started using the trademark, "IKEA", which is
identical and deceptively similar to the plaintiffs‟ registered
trademark/trade name in every respect, including phonetically, structurally
and with regard to all the essential features. Even the colour combination
used by the defendants is stated to be identical to the one used by the
plaintiffs in their registered trademark. She submits that the defendants are
providing interior designing services under an identical mark "IKEA", just
as the plaintiffs are, to the extent that they have used the mark "IKEA" on
their signage with ® appearing next to the said mark so as to falsely
represent to the public that it is their registered trademark. A pictorial
representation of the said signage is reproduced herein below:- 13. Learned counsel argues that the defendants have adopted and are
using the plaintiffs‟ trademark and label "IKEA" in relation to services
which are virtually overlapping with their business interests and existing
services under the trademark, trade name, colour combination, copyright
and trade dress, which is similar to that of the plaintiffs, thus giving an CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 6 of 16 impression to the public at large that they are somehow connected/
affiliated with the plaintiffs. It is asserted that the defendants are blatantly
infringing the statutory and common law rights of the plaintiffs under
various heads and are guilty not only of infringing the plaintiffs‟ rights in
the mark "IKEA", but also of the copyright in the label/artwork vested in
them. Thus, they are passing off their services as those of the plaintiffs. 14. Counsel for the plaintiffs submits that the aforesaid dishonest and
fraudulent acts that the defendants have indulged in is with a view to take
advantage of and ride on the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiffs in the
trademark/trade name "IKEA", which has resulted in incalculable losses,
both tangible and intangible to the goodwill, business and reputation of the
plaintiffs. The damages claimed by the plaintiffs against the defendants are
to the tune of Rs.20.00 lacs. 15. The Court has heard learned counsel for the plaintiffs, carefully
perused the averments made in the plaint and examined the documents
placed on record along with the affidavit by way of evidence filed by the
sole witness, PW-1. The plaintiffs have produced copies of their trademark
registration certificates in different classes in India (Mark-A) and have also
produced copies of the legal proceedings Certificates (Ex.PW-1/9).
Further, the plaintiffs have produced copies of advertisements and other
sales and promotional literature and brochures and the downloaded
documents from their website as also placed on record the relevant copies
of the news reports and articles written in the press with regard to their
activities in India. 16. This Court is of the opinion that on the basis of the documents filed
by the plaintiffs, they have been able to amply demonstrate and prove that CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 7 of 16 the plaintiff No.1 is the registered proprietor of the trademark "IKEA" not
only in India, but worldwide. The plaintiffs have also successfully
established that the trademark "IKEA" was coined by the founder of the
plaintiff No.1 in the year 1943, as is apparent from Ex.PW-1/6 and
Ex.PW-7. On the strength of their presence across 70 countries in the
world, which is apparent from a perusal of the sales and promotional
literature filed by them, the plaintiffs have been able to establish that they
enjoy trans-border goodwill and reputation and are armed with extensive
marketing network through the internet, retail, e-commerce and their
affiliates/subsidiaries, including plaintiff No.2 company which is registered
in India. Furthermore, the plaintiffs have been able to satisfactorily
demonstrate that ever since the adoption of the trademark "IKEA", they
have been using the same regularly and continuously and have promoted
the said mark along with their goods through publications, broadcast,
print/visual media, advertisement, etc. Thus, over the past several years,
the plaintiffs have acquired an enviable goodwill and reputation in respect
of their goods/services under the trademark/trade name "IKEA", not only in
India, but worldwide. The evidence brought on record by the plaintiffs has
remained unchallenged and un-rebutted as after being served with the
summons in the suit, the defendants have elected to stay away from the suit
proceedings. 17. Taking into consideration the evidence placed on record by the
plaintiffs and on comparing the impugned trademark of the defendants with
that of the plaintiffs, this Court is of the opinion that the trademark of the
defendants "IKEA" is identical to the trademark of the plaintiffs in each
and every respect, including, phonetically, structurally and with regard to CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 8 of 16 essential features and colour combination. It is also a relevant factor that
the defendants are engaged in the same business activity as the plaintiffs,
namely, providing interior designing services, by adopting an identical
mark "IKEA". 18. The plaintiffs are therefore justified in stating that they have suffered
loss of business due to the defendants illegally riding over their goodwill
and reputation in the market and that they have been deliberately causing
confusion/deception in the mind of the purchasing public at large with
respect to the source of the goods/services that are in fact originating from
the defendants. In view of the above, there is every likelihood of the
consumers and prospective purchasers carrying an impression in their mind
that the goods of the defendants originate from the plaintiffs or that there is
some commercial nexus between them, thus resulting in dilution of the
trademark of the plaintiffs in their goods and services. Furthermore, by
projecting to the industry and the purchasing public that they have a
commercial connection or relationship with the plaintiffs, the defendants
have been encashing the hard earned goodwill and reputation established
by them over the past several years and passing off their goods as those of
the plaintiffs, which is impressible. 19. Counsel for the plaintiffs stresses the fact that the plaintiffs are not
only entitled to the relief of permanent injunction in terms of the prayers
made in para 33(a), (b) and (c) of the plaint, but they are also entitled to a
decree of damages against the defendants towards the loss of sales,
reputation and goodwill of their trademark caused by their illegal activities. 20. As noted above, despite service of summons on them, the defendants
have elected to stay away from the present proceedings so as to thwart any CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 9 of 16 enquiry into their account for determination of damages. As a result, no
inquiry into their accounts could be conducted for this court to pass an
order of rendition of accounts of profits and delivery up, so as to
compensate the plaintiffs for the extent of damages suffered by them. But,
that alone would not be a deterrent. Merely because the defendants have
deliberately elected to stay away from the court proceedings, cannot be a
ground to permit them to reap the benefits of evading the suit proceedings
and its outcome. 21. The court is mindful of the fact that in such a situation where the
defendant chooses to stay away from the court proceedings, he should not
be permitted to enjoy the benefits of such an evasion. Any view to the
contrary would result in a situation where a compliant defendant who
appears in court pursuant to summons being issued, participates in the
proceedings and submits his account books, etc., for assessment of
damages, would end up on a worse footing, vis-à-vis a defendant who
chooses to conveniently stay away after being served with the summons in
the suit. That was certainly not the intention of the Statute. Section 135 (1) of the Trademarks Act, 1999 provides that relief that may be granted in any
suit for infringement of or for passing off includes injunction and at the
option of the plaintiff, either damages or an account of profits. The
plaintiffs in the present case have opted for claiming damages and have
established beyond doubt that they have suffered damages on account of the
conduct of the defendants which are a result of infringement of their
trademark and copyright. 22. It is well settled that damages in cases like the present one must be
awarded and a defendant, who elects to stay away from the court CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 10 of 16 proceedings, should not be permitted to enjoy the benefits of staying away
from the said proceedings. With regard to the relief of damages claimed by
the plaintiffs herein, it may be noted that courts have been granting both,
exemplary and punitive damages against the defendant in ex-parte matters
of similar nature. In the case of Times Incorporated v. Lokesh Srivastava &
Anr. reported as 2005 (30) PTC 3 (Del), while awarding punitive damages
of Rs.5 lacs against the defendant therein, in addition to compensatory
damages of a similar amount, a learned Single Judge of this Court had
observed as below: 23. Similarly, in the case of Lachhman Das Behari Lal vs. Sri
Ghanshyam Das Jetha Nand & Others reported as 2007 (35) PTC 693
(Del. ), following the principle laid down in the case of The Himalaya Drug
Company v. Sumit , reported as 126 (2006) DLT 23 : 2006 (32) PTC 112 CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 12 of 16 (Del.), wherein it was held that apart from compensatory damages, in cases
of infringement of trade marks, copyrights, etc., courts should not only
grant compensatory damages, but should also award punitive damages with
a view to discourage and dishearten law breakers who indulge in violations
with impunity, out of lust for money so that they are made to realise that in
case they are caught, they would be liable not only to reimburse the
aggrieved party, but also pay punitive damages, which may spell financial
disaster for them, the said suit was decreed in favour of the plaintiff therein
with punitive damages of Rs.25 lacs imposed on the defendant. The
aforesaid observations were made on the basis of certain other decisions
namely, Times Incorporated (supra) and Mathias vs. Accor Economy
Lodging (supra). 24. In the case of Microsoft Corporation v. Rajendra Pawar & Anr.
reported as 2008 (36) PTC 697 (Del.), considering the aspect of punitive
damages, it was held as below:- 25. In a suit filed by the plaintiffs herein in the year 2008, entitled M/s
Inter Ikea Systems BV vs. M/s Ikea Furniture Pvt. Ltd. [CS(OS) 523/2008]
that was decided on 26.3.2014, and where, despite service, the defendant
therein had deliberately stayed away from the suit proceedings, following
the principle laid down in the case of Tata Sons Ltd. vs. Hoop Anin & Ors. ,
reported as 188 (2012) DLT 327, where punitive damages to the tune of
Rs. 5 lacs were awarded in favour of the plaintiff, the court had proceeded
to award punitive damages. 26. In the case of Cartier International AG and Ors. vs. Gaurav Bhatia
and Ors. reported as 226 (2016) DLT 662, echoing the view taken in the
captioned case, it was held that where a defendant chooses to stay away
from the court proceedings, he should not be permitted to enjoy the benefits
of evasion of the said proceedings, had imposed punitive damages on the
defendant therein to the tune of Rs. 1 crore. 27. Another salutary object behind awarding punitive damages is to
ensure that it acts as a deterrent against fence sitters who may find it
lucrative to imitate registered trademarks of leading and established brands
in the industry. It is with the said purpose that those who are brought before CS(OS) 3295/2014 Page 14 of 16 the court must be made to feel the pinch of coughing up damages from their
illegal gains. If only token damages are imposed on them, then it would
hardly hurt them and they would continue indulging in infringing activities.
India has leaped into the league of those countries that have made giant
economic advances. Several companies from all over the world have
entered the Indian markets to tap its large consumer base and have made
substantial investments with the idea of earning profit, promoting and
establishing their business. The said business helps in generating
employment and earning revenue for the country. If the courts do not
extend adequate protection to them in respect of their intellectual property
rights including patents, trademarks and copyrights, they are bound to
have serious second thoughts about doing business here. 28. In the case in hand, the plaintiffs having successfully established that
they have an enviable cross-border reputation and they enjoy a huge brand
equity in over 70 countries worldwide, this Court is of the opinion that they
are entitled to protection. Any hesitation in granting adequate relief to the
plaintiffs and similarly placed companies that enjoy a huge brand equity
and presence in the market on a foundation built brick by brick over the
years, through the dint of their hard work and by maintaining high
standards, is bound to encourage piracy and permit fly by night operators
like the defendants herein to illegally make profit at the cost of the
registered trademarks owner. 29. Any other view would tantamount to putting a premium on the
dishonest, illegal, malafide and unfair trade practices adopted by parties,
such as the defendants herein who had no compunction in unauthorizedly
using the registered trademark of the plaintiffs for their personal gains. [Refer: Relaxo Rubber Limited and Anr. Vs. Selection Footwear and Anr. (1999 PTC 578); Hero Honda Motors Limited vs. Rafiq Memon [2012 (52)
PTC 449 (Del.)] and Gora Mal Hari Ram Ltd. Vs. Ashique Exports [2012
(50) PTC 428 (Del.)] 30. Accordingly, an ex-parte decree is passed in favour of the plaintiffs
and against the defendants in terms of prayer 33(a),(b) and (c). In lieu of
prayer of rendition of accounts as contained in the prayer clause 33(d) of
the plaint, it is held that the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree for a sum of
Rs.25 lacs, by way of punitive /exemplary damages against the defendants.
The damages awarded shall be payable by the defendants jointly and
severally, within a period of six months from the date of passing of the
judgment failing which, the said amount shall carry interest @ 9% p.a. from
the date of the decree, till realisation. The plaintiffs are also entitled to costs
of the suit. The suit stands decreed accordingly. Before the decree sheet is
drawn, the balance court fee shall be paid by the plaintiffs.