This first application has been filed by the applicant under Section
 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail in
 connection with Crime No. 262/2024 registered at Police Station - Hatod
 District, Indore, (M.P.) for offence punishable under Sections 316(2) and
 318(4) of BNS, 2023. Applicant is in judicial custody ever since 25.02.2025. Learned Counsel for the applicant, in addition to the grounds
 mentioned in the application, submits that applicant has been falsely
 implicated in this matter merely for the reason that he had provided the
 corporate account of Desmond to Ramesh Jatia, wherein proceeds of online
 fraud to the tune of Rs. 1,28,000/- was deposited. The applicant is implicated
 merely on the basis of statement of other accused in police custody. No bank
 detail, passbook or other material relating to corporate account of Desmond Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 09-04-2025 18:15:01 2 MCRC-12835-2025

 was recovered during investigation. There is no evidence of communication
 of applicant with Desmond or Ramesh. The applicant was apprehended on
 25.02.2025. He is in custody ever since. Further custodial interrogation of
 applicant is not needed in the matter. The applicant is aged around 28 years,
 he runs a grocery shop at his village. No criminal antecedent is alleged
 against the applicant. Further investigation and trial would take time to

 conclude. Therefore, the applicant may be extended the benefit of bail. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/State opposes the bail
 application on the ground of gravity of alleged offence. He submits that the
 applicant was part of larger conspiracy wherein various investors have been
 duped by online platform PIMCO Win-win. The applicant had assisted in the

 conspiracy by providing corporate account for deposit of proceeds of online
 fraud. However, at the instructions of investigation officer, learned counsel
 submits that no incriminating material is seized the instance of
 applicant. However, after going through the case diary, he fairly states that
 no criminal antecedent is reported against the applicant. Heard the arguments, perused the grounds for grant of bail stated in
 the application and the case diary. Allegedly, the applicant is implicated in this matter as facilitator of
 corporate account which was received by alluring Desmond of profit from
 online trading. There is no allegation that applicant infact participated in
 inducing the investors for investment through PIMO Win-Win
 Platform. The veracity of prosecution will be determined after evidence Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 09-04-2025 18:15:01 3 MCRC-12835-2025
 during the trial. As informed, the applicant is aged around 28 years, he runs a
 grocery shop at his village. He is the sole bread earner of his family.
 Considering these aspects, there appears to be no possibility of fleeing from
 justice. In absence of any criminal antecedent, considering the socio-
 economic status of the applicant and the complainant, there appears to be no
 likelihood of tampering with the evidence or influencing the witnesses by the
 applicant. The trial would take time to conclude. There appears to be no
 compelling reason to continue incarceration of the applicant. However, the
 observations, herein-above, are recorded for present application only. Considering the rival contentions and overall circumstances of the
 case, in the light of the aforesaid facts, but without commenting on the
 merits, this Court is inclined to release the applicant on bail. Thus, present
 application is allowed. Accordingly, it is directed that the applicant - Omprakash shall be
 released on bail in connection with FIR at Crime No. 262/2024 registered at
 Police Station - Hatod District Indore for offences punishable u/S 316(2),
 318(4) of BNS, 2023, upon furnishing personal bond of Rs. 2,00,000/-
 (Rupees One Lakh Only) with two solvent sureties of Rs. 1,00,000/- each to
 the satisfaction of the Trial Court, for compliance with the following
 conditions,:(For convenience of understanding by accused and surety, the
 conditions of bail are also reproduced in Hindi as under):- 4 MCRC-12835-2025
 (2) Applicant shall not commit or get involved in any offence; (2) आवेदक केाई अपराध नह ं करे गा या उसम स मिलत नह ं होगा । (3) Applicant shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or
 promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade
 them/him/her from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the police officer; (3) आवेदक करण के त य से प रिचत कसी य को य या अ य प से लोभन,
 धमक या वचन नह ं दे गा, जससे ऐसा य ऐसे त य को यायालय या पुिलस अिधकार को
 कट करने से िनवा रत हो । (4) Applicant shall not directly or indirectly attempt to tamper with the
 evidence or allure, pressurize or threaten the witness; (4) आवदे क य या अ य प से सा य के साथ छे डछाड करने का या सा ी या सा य को
 बहलाने-फुसलाने, दबाव डालने या धमकाने का यास नह ं करे गा । (5) During trial, the applicant shall ensure due compliance of provisions of Section 309 of Cr.P.C./346 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023
 regarding examination of witnesses in attendance; (5) वचारण के दौरान, उप थत गवाह से पर ण के संबंध म आवेदक धारा ३०९ दं . .सं./ ३४६
 भारतीय नाग रक सुर ा सं हता, 2023 के ावधान का उिचत अनुपालन सुिन त करे गा । This order shall be effective till the end of trial. However, in case of
 breach of any of the preconditions of bail, the Trial Court may consider on
 merit cancellation of bail without any impediment of this order. The trial Court shall get these conditions reproduced on the personal
 bond by the accused and on surety bond by the surety concerned. If any of
 them is unable to write, the scribe shall certify that he had explained the
 conditions to the concerned accused or the surety. (SANJEEV S KALGAONKAR)
 JUDGE
 BDJ Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 09-04-2025 18:15:01