Per BENCH: exclusive and other persons can be appointed as CP in
 the same area. e) Clause 2.4 of the Agreement reads as follows: f) Within his area the CP is permitted to have different
 outlets. g) The expression 'consideration' has been defined in
 clause 1(c) of the Agreement as follows: h) The responsibilities, duties and obligations of the
 assessee and that of the CP are as follows: Channel Partner shall be liable to ensure that the
 personnel identified/appointed by Channel Partner do
 not commit any act or omission, which may result in
 violation of this Agreement or of the agreement
 between Channel Partner and such dealers/retailers
 and/or of any applicable law/s. 8.4 Channel Partner agrees to and accordingly shall: ii) Maintain such marketing and distribution standards
as are, in the opinion of TTSL, appropriate considering
the quality and reputation of Products and Service; iii) At all times promptly, efficiently and in businesslike
manner provide top quality service to the Subscribers,
potential subscribers and respond to any and all
Customer/public enquiries regarding the Products and
Service; iv) Employ a fully trained service staff in accordance
with the standards set by TTSL. The number of trained
sales personnel shall be adequate to provide prompt
and efficient services keeping in view the TTSL's
service standards. v) Advertise the Products and Services using the
promotional materials or literature either supplied by
or approved in advance in writing by TTSL and shall
maintain stock of Point of Purchase (POP) material or
any other printed material, advertisement material,
etc. as specified by TTSL from time to time, which
shall be used for the purpose of promotion and
distribution of Products and Services. All such POP
materials shall have TTSL logo and shall be printed'
only after specific written approval of TTSL. However,
any tax liability/ies, as may be applicable from time to
time with respect to display of such POP materials in
the Outlets shall be borne by the Channel Partner; vi) Participate in all programmes and promotions and
other activities, which TTSL may require Channel
Partner to participate from time to time; vii)At all times co-operate with and render all
assistance to the representatives TTSL and report
promptly to TTSL within 24 hours of any information,
which may come to Channel Partner's notice regarding
customer complaints or claims or feedback with
respect to the Products and Services, Customer needs
and interests and local market conditions and shall
maintain a separate registers in respect of the same
and the communications to TFSL. viii) Provide a interest free security deposit as may be
decided by TTSL from time to time, as a security for
due performance and observance of all the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, all the instructions from
TTSL relating to the rules and regulations governing
the Products and Services and any orders in
connection therewith by the statutory authorities; ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 8 of 34 ix) Immediately inform TTSL, if at any point of time in
 future, any relative of Channel Partner/ persons in
 charge/control of Channel Partner/partners/associates
 of Channel Partner engaged in any Competing Service.
 Channel Partner has assured TTSL that at present no
 such person of Channel Partner is engaged in any
 business or activity in Competing Service; x) Be responsible for the rent, rates, taxes and other
 expenses pertaining to the maintenance of the Outlets
 and provision of the distribution services thereat; xi) Comply with all requirements/obligations/
 guidelines/instructions, established by TTSL for
 Channel Partners from time to time; xii) Promptly inform TTSL forthwith in case of any
 change in the constitution of the Channel Partner and
 shall submit a copy of revised constitutional
 documentation to TTSL, within reasonable time.
 However this provision shall not apply if the Channel
 Partner is a proprietary concern. 8.6 Statutory Compliance i) Channel Partner acknowledges and agrees that
 it/he/she having to associate with T under these
 presents, which is always demonstrating to be a good
 and responsible corporate citizen, shall have to
 conduct business at all times in strict compliance with
 all applicable laws, rules, regulations and other
 governmental/statutory/regulatory requirements,
 which is mandatory to maintain its association with
 TFSL as a channel partner. Accordingly, Channel
 Partner shall be responsible various labour
 enactments, including but not limited to the provisions
 of Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,
 Employees State Insurance Act 1948, Minimum Wages
 Act, Payments of Wages Act 1936, Shops and
 Establishments Act, Child Labour Act, other provisions
 under corporation/municipal & other local laws, and
 shall ensure that no person below the age of 18 years
 will be engaged directly or indirectly for execution of
 the terms of this Agreement. Channel Partner confirms
 that TTSL shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever
 for any non-compliance on the part of Channel Partner
 of the applicable laws and in the event of any adverse
 claims/actions/demands/proceedings of whatsoever
 nature arising thereof, the entire burden including
 costs and expenses shall be strictly borne by Channel
 Partner. Channel Partner agrees to indemnify and keep
 TTSL indemnified in respect hereof. ii) Channel Partner shall maintain all requisite records,
 registers, account books etc. which are obligatory
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 9 of 34 under any applicable law and shall provide such
 information as may be required under any law to any
 authority. iii) Channel Partner shall furnish a mandatory
 indemnity to TTSL in the format provided in Appendix
 2 herein. 8.7 Channel Partner shall ensure that neither Channel
Partner nor the dealers/retailers appointed by Channel
Partner or anyone under any of them: 8.8 Channel Partner expressly agrees that in view of
rapidly changing market dynamics, TTSL shall have the
right and option to revise the scope of the services to be
rendered by Channel Partner from time to time based on
the operational requirements and the same shall be final
and binding on Channel Partner. 8.9 Channel Partner shall procure the Products from TTSL
or such Person/s authorized TTSL. Channel Partner shall
ensure that there is no sale of spurious and unauthorized
Products from Channel Partner outlet(s) and/or the retails
outlets under the control of Channel Partner.

8.10 It shall be the responsibility of Channel Partner to
effect the sales and service through proper invoices or as
may be advised by TTSL. In case of invoices, it shall
serially numbered, dated and detailing the material
particulars of the Products and Services, name and
address of purchasers and after reasonable verification
that such purchase is for subscribing for TTSL Service in
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 10 of 34 the circle in which the Channel Partner is appointed. If
 Channel Partner has been paid cash by TTSL or any
 Person at the instance of TTSL, on any Product sold to the
 Channel Partner by TTSL or any authorized dealer of TTSL,
 any lethargy, negligence in observing this condition or
 malafide act on the part of the Channel Partner would
 entitle TTSL to terminate this Agreement without notice
 and recover from Channel Partner the amount of
 subsidy/support on the quantity of the Products, which in
 the reasonable opinion of TTSL has been diverted to uses
 and/or areas not intended under this Agreement or in
 violation of uses/areas intended under any agreement
 signed by Channel Partner with authorized
 dealers/vendor/s of TTSL. This is without prejudice to
 right Of TI'SL to take any other legal action including
 action for criminal breach of trust. 8.11 Channel Partner warrants that no officer, director,
 employee of TTSL or immediate family member thereof
 (collectively 'TTSL personnel") has received or will receive
 anything of value of any kind from Channel Partner or its
 officers, directors, employees or agents (collectively
 "Channel Partner personnel") in connection with this
 Agreement and that no TTSL personnel have a business
 relationship of any kind with Channel Partner or Channel
 Partner personnel. i) Clause 10 of the Agreement provides for consideration
 payable by assessee to CP. The gist of this clause in
 so far as it relates to starter packs and RCVs is that
 the assessee will supply Starter Kits and RCVs to
 Channel Partner under sale invoices at a discount from
 the Maximum Retail Price (MRP). Clause 10.4 of the
 CPA provides that CP is liable to pay State and local
 taxes including Sales-tax in relation to the Agreement. j) Clause 15.2 provides that assessee shall have no
 obligation to take back products sold to CP. 4. As far as the present appeals are concerned, we are concerned

only with mobile telephone services provided by the assessee to

its customers through CP. In particular, we are concerned with

the Starter Kits and RCVs that are provided by the assessee to CP

who, in turn, provide them to the customers to enable them to

use the mobile telephone services provided by the assessee. The
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 11 of 34 nature of these services provided by the Assessee needs to be

explained. A mobile phone (also known as a cellular phone, cell

phone and a hand phone) is a device that can make and receive

telephone calls over a radio link while moving around a wide

geographic area. It does so by connecting to a cellular network

provided by a mobile phone operator, allowing access to the

public telephone network. 5. A common component found on all phones is a Subscriber

Identity Module SIM card and Removable User Identity Module

(RUIM). The SIM has information like the phone number and

payment account and this is needed to make or receive calls. A

subscriber identity module (SIM) is an integrated Circuit that

securely stores the International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI)

and the related key used to identify and authenticate subscribers

on mobile telephony devices (such as mobile phones and

computers). A SIM is embedded into a removable SIM card, which

can be transferred between different mobile devices. A SIM card

contains its unique serial number (ICCID), international mobile

subscriber identity (IMSI), security authentication and ciphering

information, temporary information related to the local network, a

list of the services the user has access to and two passwords: a

personal identification number (PIN) for ordinary use and a

personal unblocking code (PUK) for PIN unlocking. SIM cards

store network-specific information used to authenticate and

identify subscribers on the network. The most important of these
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 12 of 34 are the ICCID, IMSI, Authentication Key (KI), Local Area Identity

(LAI) and Operator-Specific Emergency Number. The SIM also

stores other carrier-specific data such as the SMSC (Short

Message Service Center) number, Service Provider Name (SPN),

Service Dialing Numbers (SDN), Advice-Of-Charge parameters and

Value Added Service (VAS) applications. 6. The network is the company that provides the phone service.

In most areas there will be more than one mobile network.

Customers choose networks based on how well the different

networks work in their area, or by price. 7. There are two main ways to pay for use of mobile telephone

services: 8. As explained above, it is the card which enables the Assessee

to provide and the customer to use the pre-paid/post-paid mobile

telephone services. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 13 of 34 9. As already explained, the Assessee to enable customers to

avail of the services it provides appoints persons who are called

"Channel Partners" (CP for short). CPs are appointed for various

areas or regions. A customer who wishes to use the services of

the Assessee approaches the CP. The CP gets all the required

details of the customer. The customer is then given a starter pack

which contains the terms and conditions subject to which the

services will be provided and availed by the customer. It also

contains the SIM card and the telephone number correlating to a

particular SIM card number. 10. When the customer avails of prepaid mobile telephone

services, he can purchase recharge vouchers from the CPs. The

recharge vouchers will enable the customer to use the mobile

telephone services equivalent to the value of the recharge

vouchers. 11. Apart from Starter packs and Recharge vouchers, the CP also

renders services whereby the mobile telephone services are

activated, i.e., the customer is linked to the network of the

Assessee and can also use the network of other mobile telephone

service providers as well as telephone service providers. There is

no dispute in these appeals that the charges paid by the Assessee

to CP for services rendered for activating the SIM card is in the

nature of commission paid by the Assessee attracting the

provisions of Sec.194-H of the Act. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 14 of 34 12. The assessee to enable its customers to use its services gives

Starter packs as well as recharge vouchers to its CPs. The

Assessee raises commercial invoices in respect of each and every

sale of product to the CP. While the MRP value of the products are

fixed at the time of raising invoices the products are priced at the

discounted price agreed to between the assessee and the CP. The

CPs, however are free to sell the products to retailer at any price

(but not exceeding the MRP) and retain the margin with them as

their share of profit. 13. The Assessing Officer i.e. the Income-tax Officer, TDS Ward,

considered the terms and conditions of the agreement and also

going by the nature of services provided, concluded that the actual

relationship in regard to this transaction between the assessee

and the Distributor is that of Principal and Agent. He also

concluded that the difference between the price fixed (i.e. MRP)

and the price charged for them by the assessee, constitutes only

Commission payment. Therefore, the stand of the Assessing

Officer is that the difference denotes deemed payment of

Commission which falls under the realm of the provisions of Section 194H of the Act. The assessee on the other hand took the

stand that on the basis of the terms and conditions entered into

with the Distributors, the relationship was not that of Principal and

Agent as has been held by the Assessing Officer. It was the stand

of the assessee that the difference between the invoiced price and
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 15 of 34 the MRP is only in the nature of sales/trade discount. The

relationship between the assessee and Distributor is nothing but

Principal to Principal. The AO did not agree with the submissions

of the Assessee. Consequently order u/s.201(1) ) & 201 (1A) was

passed treating the Assessee as Assessee in default in respect of

tax not deducted at source u/s.201(1) of the Act and also passed

order levying interest u/s.201(1A) of the Act. The CIT(A)

concurred with the view of the AO. Aggrieved by the order of the

CIT(Appeals) upholding the applicability of section 194H in respect

of difference between the MRP of Starter Kit/packs and RCVs and

the price at which they were given to the CP, the assessee

preferred appeals being ITA Nos.308 to 310/Bang/2011 for

assessment years 2006-07 to 2008-09. 14. Apart from the above, the assessee has arrangement with

several banks whereby the customers of the assessee, who also

hold Credit Card of such banks, can make payment for services

utilized by them from the assessee through Credit card. The

banks agree to render payment processing services to the

assessee in consideration for the assessee making payment of fee

to the bank. The assessee does not make any payment to banks.

When a customer makes payment by credit card of a bank, the

bank processes payment to the assessee after retaining for it the

fees for processing the payment and remits the remaining sum to

the assessee. According to the Revenue the fee retained by the

bank is also in the nature of commission and therefore the
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 16 of 34 assessee ought to have deducted tax at source on such payment

u/s 194H of the Act. An order u/s 201(1) and 201(1A) of the Act

was passed by the AO for assessment years 2005-06 to 2008-09

treating the assessee as assessee in default for not deducting tax

at source on the tax so not deducted and levying interest thereon

from the date on which tax sought to have been deducted till

actual payment of such taxes to the Government. 15. On appeal by the assessee, the CIT(Appeals) held that

provisions of section 194H of the Act were not attracted in respect

of such payments. The relevant observations of the CIT(Appeals)

were as follows: Explanation : For the purposes of this section, - (i) "Commission or brokerage" includes any payment
 received or receivable, directly or indirectly, by a person
 acting on behalf of another person for services rendered
 (not being professional services) or for any services in the
 course of buying or selling of goods or in relation to any
 transaction relating to any asset, valuable article or thing; (ii) "Professional services" means services rendered by a
 person in the course of carrying on a legal, medical,
 engineering or architectural profession or the profession of
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 20 of 34 accountancy or technical consultancy or interior decoration
 or such other profession as is notified by the Board for the
 purposes of section 44AA ; (iii) Where any income is credited to any account, whether
 called "Suspense account" or by any other name, in the
 books of account of the person liable to pay such income,
 such crediting shall be deemed to be credit of such income
 to the account of the payee and the provisions of this
 section shall apply accordingly." 20. It is clear from the aforesaid provision that taxes have to be

deducted at source by a person responsible for paying any income

by way of commission or brokerage. The expression "commission"

or "brokerage" has been defined in the explanation, which includes

any payment received or receivable directly or indirectly by a

person acting on behalf of another person for services rendered

(not being professional services) or for any services in the course

of buying and selling of goods or in relation to any transaction

relating to following: 21. Sec. 201(1) of the Act provides that where a person is obliged

to deduct tax at source in accordance with the aforesaid provisions

fails to deduct tax at source or after deducting tax at source fails

to pay it to the Government then such person will be deemed to

be an Assessee in default and is liable to pay the tax not so
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 21 of 34 deducted or not paid. Further Sec.201(1A) provides that such

person shall also be liable to pay interest on the tax not so

deducted or paid from the date on which such tax ought to have

been paid to the Government till such time such taxes are paid to

the Government. 22. The main contention of the learned counsel for the assessee

before us was that the relationship between the assessee and the

CP was purely principal to principal relationship and there was no

element of agency involved whatsoever. It was submitted that

there was outright sale on starter kit and recharge vouchers by

the assessee to CP and in this regard our attention was drawn to

several clauses in the CPA which refers to the fact that the CP has

to pay sales tax. It was also highlighted that the CP is liable for all

loss, pilferage, damage to the products and was also liable to take

insurance on the products. The above features in the CP,

according to the learned counsel for the assessee, clearly show

that there was no contract agency between the assessee and the

CP. It was also argued that the assessee gives the product to the

CP at a particular price which is less than the MRP. The assessee

does not have control on the price at which the CP sells the

products to the customers. It was therefore argued that assessee

does not know as to what is the commission in respect of which it

has to deduct tax at source u/s 195H of the Act. Our attention

was drawn to the invoice, a copy of which is placed at page 328 of

the assessee's paper book. It was pointed out that the invoice
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 22 of 34 clearly declares that the goods are being sold by the assessee to

CP. It was pointed out that on delivery of RCV (recharge

vouchers) starter kit, there is a transfer of ownership in goods

from the assessee to the CP. It was also submitted that SIM card

is specific and ascertained goods and on delivery to the CP,

ownership in SIM card is transfer to the CP. The learned counsel

for the assessee placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors

Association (2012) 25 Taxman 201 (SC) wherein the decision of

the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court was affirmed. The decision of the

Hon'ble Gujarat High Court is reported in 257 ITR 202. The

question before the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court was as to whether

the difference between the face value of the stamps and the price

at which the licensed stamp vendors get stamps from the

Government is commission. On the question as to whether the

difference between face value of the stamp and the price at which

the Government gives the same to the stamp vendor was

commission within the meaning of section 194H of the Act, it was

held that there was no contract of agency between the

Government and the stamp vendor and that it was a case of sale

and there is no element of service involved whatsoever and the

provisions of sec.194H of the Act were not attracted. Besides the

above, the following decisions were also referred to viz., ACIT vs

Samaj (2001)77 ITD 358 (Cuttack) which was a case of sale of

newspapers by a newspaper publisher to its sales agents. It was

held that there was an outright sale of the newspaper to the sales
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 23 of 34 agent at a discounted price and therefore sec.194H of the Act did

not apply. The learned counsel for the assessee also relied on the

decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. Jai

Drinks Pvt. Ltd. (336 ITR 383). It was a case where the question

involved was as to whether the difference between the MRP and

the price at which manufacturer of soft drinks gave it to the

distributor of soft drinks was commission within the meaning of sec.194H of the Act. The Hon'ble High Court held that there was

no principal-agency relationship between soft drink manufacturer

and the distributors and the provisions of sec.194H of the Act

were not attracted. The learned counsel for the assessee fairly

admitted that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, in the case of CIT vs.

IDEA Cellullor Ltd. (230 CTR 43) and the Hon'ble Kerala High

Court in the case of Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. vs. ACIT (332 ITR 255)(Ker) have taken a view that the difference between the MRP

at which SIM card were given by the Telecom Service Provider to

the distributors was in the nature of commission of attracting the

provisions of sec.194H of the Act. He pointed out that in the

aforesaid cases on the terms of the Agreement between the

distributor and the Telecom Service Provider, the court found that

there was relationship of principal-agent and therefore

applicability of sec.194H was upheld. It was his submission that in

the present case there was transfer of ownership in the SIM card

from the assessee to the CP and therefore those decisions will not

have any application to the facts of the present case. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 24 of 34 23. The learned Departmental Representative submitted that

Starter kits and SIM card are not tangible properties. It was his

submission that SIM card merely enables the customer to avail

services provided by the Telecom Services Provider. According to

him, SIM card and RCV cannot be considered as goods. He placed

strong reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in

the case of IDEA Cellullor Ltd. (supra), Vodafone Essar Cellular

Ltd. (Ker.). His submission was that the attempt by the learned

counsel for the assessee to distinguish those cases on the ground

that the business model in those cases was different, cannot be

accepted. In this regard, it was his submission that one has to

see the substance of the transaction over the form in which the

transaction is sought to be projected. According to him, the

substance of the transaction for sale of SIM card and RCV is

nothing but a medium through which the customer can avail the

services provided by a telecom service provider. Except such use,

SIM card and RCV have no intrinsic value and the distributor

purchasing the same from the Telecom operator will have no use

whatsoever of the SIM card and RCV. It was the learned DR's

submission that the agreement between the parties cannot be

conclusive in such matters. In substance, difference between the

MRP and the price at which the SIM card and RCV are sold to the

distributor is only a commission for services rendered by the

distributor to enable the Telecom service provider to sell his

services to the ultimate customer. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 25 of 34 24. We have considered the rival submissions. Before we deal

with the various contentions of the parties before us, it should be

mentioned that the issue that arises for consideration in these

appeals has already been considered and decided by various

Hon'ble High Courts and different benches of the Tribunal. It

would be better to refer to those decisions and the ratio laid down

therein so that we can appreciate the contentions put forth by the

parties before us which were based on the aforesaid decisions. 25. As we have already seen there is a process of activation of

the SIM cards for which charges are collected by the telecom

service provider from the customers. Service tax on such charges

were payable by the telecom service provider. On sale of SIM

cards the telecom service provider was paying sales tax. The

sales tax authorities included the activation charges as part of the

sale consideration of the SIM cards on the ground that such

activation was nothing but a value addition of the goods and thus

covered under the definition of 'goods' under the relevant sales

tax law. On the other hand, the service tax authorities proceeded

on the basis that a mere SIM card, without activation, was of no

use and consequently held that the appellants were liable to pay

service tax on the value of the SIM cards as well. Thus, both the

sales tax and the service tax authorities proceeded to charge their

respective taxes on the entire value of the transaction relative to

SIM cards, including the activation charges. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 26 of 34 26. There was a challenge to double taxation of the transactions

relating to SIM cards. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in BSNL vs.

UOI (2006) 3 SCC 1 dealt with this issue. The Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that the question as to what a SIM card actually

represented was a question of fact and in determining the issue,

the principle to be kept in mind was as to what was the intention

of the parties regarding the SIM card transaction. If the parties

intended that the SIM card would be a separate object of sale, it

will be open to the sales tax authorities to levy the tax. However,

if the sale of the SIM card was merely incidental to the services

being provided and only facilitated the identification of the

subscriber and other details, it would not be assessable to the

sales tax. Consequently, the Supreme Court held that both taxes

could not possibly apply to the transaction in question and based

on the above determination of intent, only one or the other tax

would apply. Accordingly, the Supreme Court remanded the

matter in the above decision in the BSNL case to the sales tax

authorities. M/s. Idea Mobile Communication Ltd., a telecom

service provider was also party to the proceedings in the case of BSNL (supra). They challenged the levy of service tax including

the value of the SIM card before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. They had also filed appeals before the Central Excise and Service

Tax Tribunal (Tribunal) challenging the levy of service tax which

were pending when the Hon'ble Supreme Court decided the case

of BSNL (supra). After the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of BSNL (supra), the Central Excise and Service Tax
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 27 of 34 Tribunal (Tribunal) set aside the imposition of the service tax

which decision was, in turn, set aside by the Kerala High Court,

which reinstated the original service tax demand. Against the

order of the Hon'ble Kerala High Court, M/S.Idea Mobile

Communication filed appeal before Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the

meanwhile their case was duly taken up by the sales tax

authorities who took the view that SIM cards had no intrinsic sale

value and dropped the proceedings. Thus, the transactions

relating to SIM cards were held not taxable to sales tax and these

proceedings stood concluded. 27. Again the question came up for consideration before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court regarding double taxation viz., service tax

as well as sales tax on the same transaction. In CIVIL APPEAL No.

6319 OF 2011 [Arising out of SLP(C) No. 24690 of 2009] in the

case of IDEA MOBILE COMMUNICATION LTD. Vs.C.C.E.C.,COCHIN

rendered on 4.8.2011, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has again

addressed the issue of the chargeability of such transactions to

the appropriate indirect tax, i.e, the service tax or sales tax/VAT. 28. The Hon'ble Supreme Court examined the nature of SIM Card

and observed as follows: as defined in section 65(72)(b) of the Finance Act.
 They are also exigible to service tax on the value of
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 29 of 34 "taxable service" as defined in Section 67 of the
 Finance Act." 29. The Hon'ble Supreme Court thereafter noticed that the sales

tax authorities did not levy sales tax on sale of SIM cards

accepting the plea of the telecom service provider that SIM card

merely enables providing telecom service to customers and cannot

be considered as goods. The Hon'ble Supreme Court noticed that

the CESTAT took a view that value of SIM card sold should not

treated as part of taxable service which was reversed by the

Hon'ble Kerala High Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court finally

concluded as follows: 30. Thus the Hon'ble Court concluded that the amount received

by the telecom company from its subscriber towards the SIM card

would form part of the taxable value for the levy of service tax in

relation to the activation charges, which were undeniably in the

nature of a service, since the SIM card was never sold

independent from the above service and was hence considered

part and parcel of such service. The dominant intent of the

transaction was clearly to provide services and not to sell any

goods. It was thus held that value of the SIM card formed part of
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 31 of 34 the activation charges since no activation was possible without a

valid functioning SIM card. The Supreme Court opined that it was

precisely for this reason that the sales tax authorities had

withdrawn their attempt to tax such services to the sales tax.

Consequently, it held that the sale and supply of SIM cards to

subscribers, including the activation charges, was indeed intended

and dealt with by both parties as services and not as sale of

goods. Therefore, the charge of service tax in this regard was

upheld by the Court. 31. The aforesaid judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court should

be considered as settling the issue as to whether the transactions

relating to supply of SIM cards between telecom operators and the

subscribers would be charged to just the one tax i.e. the service

tax and not the sales tax. 32. As far as the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for

the assessee are concerned, we are of the view that in the light of

the later decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, those decisions

can no longer be considered as binding. We are of the view that

the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Jai

Drinks Pvt. Ltd. (supra) as well as the decision of the Hon'ble

Gujarat High Court in the case of Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors

Association (supra) stand on a different footing. Inasmuch as in

both the aforesaid cases, there was a tangible asset which was

subject matter of sale. As we have already seen, the Hon'ble
 ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 32 of 34 Supreme Court has held that SIM card has no tangible value and it

is merely a medium through which the customer enjoys the

services provided by a telecom service provider. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court has taken a view that there is no element of sale

involved. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, we do not think that the decisions relied upon by

the learned counsel for the assessee and arguments based on the

terms of CP Agreement, will be of any assistance. We, therefore

have, no hesitation in upholding the order of the CIT(Appeals). 33. The learned counsel for the assessee had made a submission

before us that in any event, determination of tax payable u/s

201(1) of the Act should be done after taking into consideration

the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages P. Ltd. vs. CIT (293 ITR 226)(SC)

wherein it was held that if the payee has made payment of taxes

then to that extent, the assessee should not be considered as an

assessee in default. We are of the view that it would be just and

appropriate to direct the AO to consider the claim of the assessee

only with regard to determination of the liability u/s 201(1) of the

Act. To this extent, the appeals of the assessee challenging the

order u/s 201(1) stand partly allowed for statistical purposes. The

appeals of the assessee, challenging levy of interest u/s 201(1A) of the Act, however, stand dismissed. ITA Nos.308 to 310/B/11....1290/Bang/2012 Page 33 of 34 34. As far as the appeals of the revenue are concerned, we find

that the question involved in the aforesaid appeals is as to

whether the payments on account of credit card charges should be

treated as commission within the meaning of sec.194H of the Act.

On this issue, we find that the Hon'ble ITAT, Hyderabad, has held

as follows: 35. In light of the aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble Hyderabad

Bench, we are of the view that payments to banks on account of

utilization of credit card facilities would be in the nature of bank

charge and not in the nature of commission within the meaning of sec.194H of the Act. We, therefore, confirm the order of the

CIT(Appeals) on this issue and dismiss the appeals of the

Revenue. 36. In the result, appeals bearing ITA Nos.1285, 1287 &

1289/Bang/2012 are treated as partly allowed for statistical

purposes while all other appeals are dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 27 th November 2012.