“In the Digital Economic Ministers group …we are trying to have a consensus that the way the human civilization covered many crimes through international collaboration, through creating infrastructure and institutions which work across boundaries, now human society will have to work for similar institutions for cybersecurity also,” Ashwani Vaishnaw, the Minister of Communications, Electronics, and Information Technology, said in his valedictory speech at the two-day conference on ‘Crime and Security in the Age of NFTs, AI, and Metaverse’ under the G20 banner on July 13 and 14.

One of the sessions during the conference focused on the dark net and its interconnections with the cryptocurrency market, and the need for international cooperation to make it easier to track cybercriminals across borders was highlighted.

Why it matters:

This session of the G20 conference revealed the challenges associated with tracking and catching cyber criminals. The points made throughout this conference highlight the need for cross-border cooperation to catch criminals, given the transnational nature of cybercrime.

“Marketplaces where drugs, guns, human trafficking occurs, data is bought and sold, is all done in cryptocurrencies, and wholesale extortion and theft occurs using cryptocurrencies,” said Mark Turnage, the CEO of dark net monitoring company Dark Owl and one of the panelists of the session. He further added that terror financing and ransomware demands are also made through cryptocurrency and that 88% of all the transactions on the darknet are done through Bitcoin, followed closely by Monero at 75.6%.

Turnage said that if Bitcoin gets eliminated, other currencies would soon take its place. “So whatever regulatory regime or framework or process we put in place has to be flexible enough to account for the fact that the malicious actors are going to be moving very rapidly, much more rapidly than many other types of criminal activity,” he explained.

The article continues below; you might also want to read:

Another panelist, Rahul Sasi, the founder of the risk monitoring platform CloudSEK, discussed the challenge of trying to follow the money trail of cyber criminals. He said that bitcoin used for crime is actually sent through Bitcoin mixers which are “services that will make sure you don’t know who the final recipient of the bitcoin is. So it goes through multiple Bitcoin addresses to finally reach the end person.”

The anonymity provided by the darknet is another challenge for regulators. Darknet marketplaces have restricted access. “[F]or a researcher, for a law agency to essentially monitor such a marketplace, requires them to have certain credentials which are not always available,” another panelist and Assistant Professor at IIT Madras Dr. Chester Rebeiro said. Additionally, darknet marketplaces are constantly evolving which makes it hard for regulators to track them, he said.

Artificial intelligence (AI) could prove useful here by detecting patterns in the communication taking place over various marketplaces in three different areas—transactions, textual data being shared between computers and multimedia hosted on the sites. It could even be used to create a risk score (a banking tool where statistical information is used to test the probability of a transaction being fraudulent) for each transaction, which “would help regulatory organizations prioritize their monitoring focus on certain areas, which is more critical than others,” Rebeiro said.

But AI isn’t a foolproof method. AI tools are unable to detect slang used by cyber criminals, a lot of information being shared on the dark net is encrypted, and cyber criminals constantly work towards evading detection. “The only way to actually address all of this is you’re able to train the AI agents appropriately… We need large amounts of training data to train these AI agents so that they could learn various aspects about the encrypted traffic [and] the context,” he said, adding that such data currently does not exist.

A way forward can be Network Investigative Techniques (NITS)—a form of malware created by the FBI in 2002—which provides regulators access to a computer’s data. “The idea here is that you have agencies which are able to inject malware or backdoors right into the user systems. So when you’re able to do this, you’re able to monitor traffic unencrypted,” Reberio explained. But this can have a negative impact on user privacy, he added.

Another way to track cybercriminals using crypto is to start tracking the places where they get exchanged into traditional currencies, that is, at crypto exchanges, Turnage mentioned.

The US and Western Europe have already begun working on regulating crypto exchanges urging them to collect information on who their customers are and where they obtained the cryptocurrency from. But to bypass this regulation, criminals are switching to jurisdictions where crypto exchanges remain unregulated.

“So the immediate challenge is to put in place a process and a framework of transnational cooperation,” Turnage said adding that  “[w]hat’s missing is a single international organization, be it the UN or Interpol or somebody, to truly own this issue.”

The same sentiment was echoed by other speakers at the conference as well. In a panel discussion on the criminal use of information and communication technologies (ICTs), Muanpuii Saiawi, Joint Secretary (cyber diplomacy) Ministry of External Affairs said “We have to work together so I hope that we, India, having started this [discussion around topics like cryptocurrency and artificial intelligence] in the G20 process, we hope that it will be taken forward.”

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event