SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: THE MYSTERIOUS "DEATH ALLEYS" OF GUJARAT............
DATE: 2015-12-12
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3whzdh/the_mysterious_death_alleys_of_gujarat/

--- POST TEXT ---

Haren Pandya, a BJP politician and a serious rival of Modi is assassinated in 2003 in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, when he was sitting in his car (the place of his murder is contentious). after a morning walk in the Law Garden area.

After the Godhra riots, it was reported that Pandya, in a cabinet meeting, had opposed the bringing of the bodies of the victims of Godhra carnage to Ahmedabad because that would arouse passion. He was the only person able to arrange meetings between victim's family members and Muslim leaders for Peace talk But he was shouted down at the meeting by some ministers.

On August 29, 2011 all the 12 people accused of murdering Pandya were acquitted of the murder charges by the Gujarat high court, but other charges including criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder were retained. The high court called the CBI's work a "botched up and blinkered" investigation.

Sunita Williams, the Indian-American astronaut, refused to meet Narendra Modi during her visit to India in 2013 Instead, she was seen throughout the day in the company of Jagruti Pandya, wife of slain minister Haren Pandya and Sunita's first cousin. Efforts were made by the chief minister's office to tie up a meeting between Modi and Sunita but she did not respond.

As per DNA newspaper report of Aug 2011,
Tulsiram Prajapati, a close aide of the gangster, Sohrabuddin Sheikh, was allegedly used to kill Pandya. Sohrabuddin was allegedly assigned the task of killing Pandya by some influential people. "Sohrabuddin first contacted Asgar Ali for the job but Ali refused,".

Sohrabuddin allegedly then handed over the task to Tulsi Prajapati. The source further claimed that Tulsi had allegedly carried out the murder and was even rewarded for this by Sohrabuddin. The change of power at the Centre after the 2004 Lok Sabha elections gave the alleged conspirators another reason to eliminate Sohrabuddin and Tulsi in fake encounters.

On November 23, 2005, Sohrabuddin Sheikh was traveling on a public bus with his wife, Kauser Bi, from Hyderabad to Sangli, Maharashtra. At 01:30 am, the Gujarat police ATS stopped the bus and took them away. Kauser wanted to stay with her husband, but was taken to a Disha farmhouse outside Ahmedabad instead.

Three days later, Sheikh was killed in an alleged staged encounter on a highway at Vishala Circle near Ahmedabad. The report filed in the Supreme Court by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) quotes a number of witnesses and builds up a narrative of the killing.

Two days after Sheikh was killed, Kauser Bi was raped and brutally killed by a group of policemen in Ahmedabad and her body was burnt on the river bed of a small village called Illol, the village of D.G.Vanzara, the DIG of Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS). They murdered her as she was the eye witness to the kidnapping of her husband Sohrabuddin. The killing of Kauser Bi was subsequently admitted by the Gujarat state attorney in front of the Supreme Court.

Tulsiram Prajapati was killed while in custody at 5 am on December 28, 2006. The case is widely believed to have been an encounter killing by the Gujarat Police. DIG D. G. Vanzara has been in jail for seven years, on charges of having organized this encounter, among others.

Then came the murder of Ishrat Jahan and three others, all branded as LeT terrorists just like Sohrabuddin Sheikh was. Infact given the reports of Gujarat Govt, if they are to be believed, then Sohrabuddin was "All in One" with connections starting from petty interstate Rajsthan-Gujarat smugglers to Dawood Ibrahim to Lashkar e Tayyaba.

All the encounters between 2002 and 2007, including that of Javed-Ishrat, Sohrabuddin Sheikh, Sadik Jamal and Tulsiram Prajapati were not only fake but were carried out under the instructions of Government of Gujarat.

The specific words of DG Vanzara in his resignation letter tells the whole story:
"""Gujarat CID/Union CBI had arrested me and my officers in different encounter cases holding us to be responsible for carrying out alleged fake encounters, if that is true, then the CBI Investigating officers of all the four encounter cases of Sohrabuddin, Tulsiram, Sadik Jamal and Ishrat Jahan have to arrest the policy formulators also as we, being field officers, have simply implemented the conscious policy of this Government which was inspiring, guiding and monitoring our actions from the very close quarters. By this reasoning, I am of the firm opinion that place of this Government, instead of being in Gandhinagar, should either be in Taloja Central Prison at Navi Mumbai or in Sabarmati Central Prison at Ahmedabad."""

* copied from a friend's facebook wall