SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Telegram job scam/phishing/fraud
DATE: 2023-10-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/170z6yc/telegram_job_scamphishingfraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a 28 year old person. I have not working since a long time due to personal and health issues. Two days ago I got a message on WhatsApp from a 'Zara Ramroop'. (Pretty secular name, isn't it?) They asked me if I was interested in a WFH for a company 'Social Beat' which would pay me around 1000-4000 rs daily. I usually don't believe this but being broke I decided to give it a go as I had nothing to lose. This person forwarded me to Telegram to an account names as 'Sofia Christabel' and asked me to subscribe to the random YouTube Channels and then they paid me 50 RS each subscription. So I did and they initially paid me 200 rs.

Then they added me to a telegram group where around 150+ accounts were added. Each were given Missions to subscribe to YouTube channels. Inbetween they had missions like 'Sharing Economy Tasks' where you had to prepaid some amount and they will refund you with some commission. It started from rs 2000. I didn't even had 2000 rs with me so I declined them. But after they said they will remove me from the group I felt FOMO on this 'opportunity'. I borrowed some money from my cousin and paid them 2000 for this task. After a while I received 2800 in my account paid twice. So from zero balance I had now more than 5000 rupees in my account.

I was happy to find a source of income to help me into my recovery process. That I don't have to beg anyone for the money for my expenses of groceries etc. (I have not been in the position to work because of my mental health condition, tried a fundraiser for help but instead ended up with more anxiety and unsolicited toxic humiliation. 

The next day the process began again, this time I decided to pay 5000 rupees. The 'auditor' forwarded me to a 'tutor' which would guide me to complete this 'task'. Similar to the previous one, I ended up paying 5000 rs, but this time there were two more people in my group. One was saying that he's been doing this since a month and another person said she's a newcomer. The tutor said that now your first round of this task has been completed and there could be 2-4 rounds. I didn't expect this. They asked me to IMPS 36000 to a bank account. I didn't had this money and also borrowed from my cousin. I was getting really nervous because it was not my money at risk but someone else's alongside my reputation in front of them. So I got desperate to recover that money in the form of commission refund and pay back. 40000 is a huge sum of money for a person like me and that too borrowed one. But again this time also the 'tutor' said that there was one more pre-paid task required to fullfill this 'mission'. I was getting really nervous. Around 40k of borrowed money was stuck somewhere and I was not able to sit around. I didn't know what to do at all and my brain condition also got worse. This time the tutor asked everyone in the group to pay 96000 rupees. I was blown away. The others two people in the group, one behaved like she was also very surprised. But then she told them to wait and asked money from her friends. The other person was behaving like Bill Gates like he didn't care about paying 96000 and would even pay 1 cr if asked to deposit. I was getting very nervous. Already 41000 was stuck and I really didn't know what to do. I chatted with other members personally. I asked guy to pay for my behalf but he didn't. He told me to borrow money from personal loan apps. I literally felt like ground slipping under my feet.

I told tutor that I don't have the money but he didnt care. He said that if I want refund I would have to deposit 96000 rupees. I couldn't talk to anyone, wasn't still sure what's happening and if this is a scam or not. Didn't know what to do, losing someone else's money. They manipulated me to apply for a personal loan.

I couldn't eat and sleep at night. Thought of death and what not were coming into my mind. Never ever had taken a loan in my life that too I'm jobless. Right now I am waking up at 4 am in the morning and writing this on reditt.

To lose 40k or be in debt of around 1.6 lacs without any source of income? A harmful tig of war couldn't let me sleep all night and had to shove multiple sleeping pills into my mouth to get yawning started. Although applied for personal loan I just hope now that it gets rejected. I searched for this on internet and found that many people has been victims of this phishing. Mostly educated ones. I just wanted to inform this to people here and let the others know. I already have lost confidence in myself. What to do?