The Government of Karnataka is undertaking its highly anticipated Socio-Economic and Educational Survey or the “Caste Census”, where citizens are signing self-declaration forms that obtain consent based on the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act, 2023 and its draft rules .

Speaking to MediaNama, Apar Gupta, Founder Director of the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), highlighted the flaws in this consent process.

“The DPDP Act is not yet in force, and no commencement notification has been issued. So any ‘consent’ language on these forms that cites the DPDP Act has no statutory footing.

“It’s merely black ink on a white page, not a legally enforceable right. [Also] references to ‘DPDP Rules’ are wholly misconceived because there is no final, notified set of rules in the public domain,” he remarked.

Importantly, the Government of Karnataka is using this legally questionable process to collect a vast trove of sensitive personal, financial, and political data. And this raises urgent questions about the validity of the consent and the security of citizens’ information. Notably, the nature of the consent seeking process fails to meet the requirements of the very law that it refers to.

For context, I first came across the self-declaration form while filling out the caste census details for my own household, and a reference to the DPDP Act in the last line immediately stood out.

Interestingly, the enumerator did not know why this reference was made, and this prompted a deeper examination of the Social and Educational Survey Handbook 2025 , which contains references to both the DPDP Act and Rules.

The Social and Educational Survey 2025 is being led by the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes. The Karnataka Government plans to survey nearly 7o million people across 20 million households . The project aims to collect “accurate social and educational data” using a mobile app developed by the Directorate of Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services (EDCS).

Notably, this is Karnataka’s second caste census. For context, the state government had shelved the 2015 survey’s recommendations in July this year.

The Karnataka High Court (HC) allowed the current survey to proceed despite legal challenges by stating two vital caveats . This includes making citizen participation purely voluntary and ensuring confidentiality for the collected data.

Enumerators administer the self-declaration forms to survey respondents after the completion of the data collection process. This is to mark their voluntary participation in the survey. A close review of these forms and survey documents shows that officials have framed consent poorly.

Medianama obtained a physical copy of the self-declaration form, which officials administer after completing the survey. The form states that it obtains their consent “as per the Digital Personal Data Protection Act – 2023”.

The Social and Educational Survey – Survey Handbook-2025 , contains the official self-declaration form. This version is even more concerning than the one MediaNama obtained, as it states that: “This declaration is given as per the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 and the Digital Personal Data Protection Rules”.

Lastly, there is a self-declaration user manual which guides citizens who wish to submit their own data. For this online submission, the final step requires the citizen to upload a photo of the written self-declaration statement with their signature. The statement is “I have voluntarily taken part in this survey and all the information given is true and correct”.

Here, the first version (that Medianama saw) only refers to the non-operational DPDP Act as its basis for consent. The second version (in the Survey Handbook) goes a step further and refers to both the DPDP Act and the draft DPDP Rules. And in stark contrast, the third version (for those submitting their own data) does not mention the Act or the Rules altogether.

Officials are collecting broad-based personal data with the help of this flawed consent framework. Pertinently, this data ranges from geo-tagged household photos and Aadhaar-linked personal identifiers, to detailed information on family background, caste and community affiliations, financial and asset ownership, and even the political representation status of household members.

Importantly, why are there three different variants of the self-declaration forms? Is the Karnataka Government aware of this discrepancy? And more crucially, why is the state government referring to a law that is not yet operational , and the final rules for which are still being framed ?

The self-declaration user manual also highlights a mandatory eKYC process requiring agreement to a broad consent statement. The survey requires users to agree to the following statement: “I give consent to the Department to seed my data into the database, to make payment through DBT, and to use it in welfare schemes across government departments.”

This approach forces users to give bundled consent, tying a single action to multiple authorisations. Many citizens might believe they are only sharing data for the survey, but they will end up giving broad consent that allows the government to use their information for other purposes.

Apparently, these consent forms are non-compliant with the very law they cite. Section 6 of the DPDP Act requires consent given by the Data Principal to be “free, specific, informed, unconditional and unambiguous”.

None of the three self-declaration form variants meet the above requirement. The eKYC system also collects broad, bundled consent, violating the DPDP Act’s limits on such practices.

By citing the DPDP Act and its Rules that are not yet in force, the Karnataka Government creates the illusion of legal protection. It asks citizens to sign forms that make them believe they have enforceable rights, even though no such protections exist currently.

Notably, there is no Data Protection Board that citizens can approach for redressal, as it can only come into existence after the DPDP Act is enforced. Also, the state government’s method of asking for consent violates the Karnataka HC’s directions to ensure voluntary participation, and the confidentiality of collected data.

As such, instead of creating a facade of compliance, the state could have taken legislative ownership of the process. In this context, Gupta suggests, “If the Karnataka Government genuinely wants privacy safeguards for this caste survey, it should explore a state-level data protection law grounded in entries under the State and Concurrent Lists under the Constitution of India”.

As of now, by choosing to reference a non-operational Act prematurely instead of drafting its own legislation, the government prioritises the appearance of compliance over actually implementing genuine, enforceable safeguards to protect the sensitive data it collects.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event