1. The petitioner seeks grant of anticipatory bail in respect of a complaint

 under Section 45 read with Section 44 of the Prevention of Money

 Laundering Act, 2002 (in short hereinafter referred to as 'the PMLA') in

 complaint bearing no. COMA-2-2021 dated 22.1.2021 for offence under Section 3 punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA. 2. The aforesaid complaint was instituted initially against Radhey Shyam,

 Bansi Lal and others wherein the petitioner was nowhere named and it is

 much later that the petitioner came to be arrayed as accused. As such, the

 sequence leading to arraying of the petitioner as accused needs to be referred

 to, which is briefly stated herein-under: KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 3 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 by recording ECIR/CDZO-II/02/2021, dated 11.01.2021 at
 Chandigarh. 22.1.2021 : The Enforcement Directorate filed complaint dated 22.1.2021
 (Annexure P-1) before Special Court, Panchkula against
 Radhey Shyam, Bansi Lal and others wherein one Pranjil
 Batra was cited as a witness on the premises that his
 professional services as a computer software expert were
 being used by the co-accused. 7.5.2022 : However, subsequently, upon finding direct involvement of
 Pranjil Batra in the scam, he was arrested on 10.03.2022. His
 statement was recorded on 11.3.2022 and a supplementary
 complaint was filed against him on 7.5.2022, wherein it is
 specifically alleged that he was part and parcel of the scam
 and had benefited to the extent of about `53 crores. 20.5.2022 : The petitioner Rajesh Jain was summoned vide order dated
 20.5.2022 passed by Special Judge on the basis of statement
 of co-accused Pranjil Batra. The petitioner is alleged to be
 instrumental in facilitating co-accused Pranjil Batra for
 purchasing/acquiring 10 dummy/paper/fictitious companies in
 cash consideration to the tune of `42 crores through
 'accommodation' entries. 3. The learned counsel representing the petitioner has submitted that the

 petitioner is nowhere named in the complaint initially instituted against the

 main accused on 22.1.2021 and has been nominated as an accused

 subsequently on the basis of statement of co-accused Pranjil Batra who

 himself was also not named in FIR initially and that such like evidence

 would hardly carry any evidentiary value so as to justify his custody. The

 learned counsel has submitted that the petitioner, having been summoned

 vide order dated 20.5.2022 passed by Special Judge, Panchkula on the basis KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 4 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 of statement of co-accused Pranjil Batra, is on a better footing than the main

 accused who were initially named in the complaint and who were never sent

 into custody. The learned counsel submits that since investigation qua the

 petitioner already stands concluded and it was pursuant to conclusion of the

 same that supplementary complaint came to be filed against him, there is no

 occasion for subjecting him to custody at this stage. 4. It has also been argued that once the Investigating Officer had chosen not to

 exercise powers conferred under Section 19 of the PMLA so as to arrest the

 accused, the issuance of non-bailable warrants at this stage by the trial Court

 was not justified. The petitioner also claims parity on the ground that 12

 other co-accused have already been granted bail either immediately upon

 their appearance by the trial Court or have been granted regular bail by this

 Court. 5. On the other hand, the learned State counsel has submitted that in such like

 cases of 'white collar crime', it is always not possible to figure out the

 modus operandi in the first instance and that as the investigation progresses,

 the modus operandi is unearthed and the involvement of other accused can

 be known. The learned State counsel has submitted that it is on account of

 the said peculiarities and characteristics of 'white collar offences' that Section 44 has been provided in the PMLA, which widens the scope of filing

 supplementary complaints pursuant to further investigation that may have

 been conducted against any accused in respect of the offence for which

 complaint has already been filed, whether or not such person was named in

 the original complaint. The learned counsel has submitted that the attached

 properties are somewhere to the tune of `290 crores which is merely a tip of KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 5 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 the iceberg inasmuch as the total scam is in respect of about `3000 crores

 and for which further leads are required to be elicited to trace all the

 proceeds of crime. 6. The learned State counsel has further submitted that the mere fact that the

 Investigating Officer had not chosen to arrest the petitioner will not vest the

 accused with any kind of indefeasible right to bail and that custodial

 interrogation of the petitioner is likely to yield crucial information as regards

 the involvement of some other accused and could lead to recovery of

 proceeds of crime and the properties which could be attached. The learned

 State Counsel has not denied the fact that co-accused have been granted bail

 upon their appearance before the trial Court but has informed that the said

 orders have already been challenged by way of filing petition in this Court

 wherein cancellation of bail has been prayed for. 7. The learned State counsel has further submitted that although it is a case of

 anticipatory bail, but the twin conditions as imposed by Section 45 of the

 PMLA are applicable with full fervour, particularly in view of ratio of the

 recent judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in 2022 SCC Online

 SC 929 titled as Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others versus Union of

 India and Others . It has been submitted that since it is a scam involving

 huge amount of about `3,000 crores and the petitioner had actively

 participated and had assisted co-accused Pranjil Batra in acquiring various

 companies by way of which the co-accused were effectively able to

 perpetuate the fraud, his complicity is clearly evident and in every

 eventuality, the petitioner, now being aware that a supplementary complaint KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 6 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 has been filed against him, is likely to flee from justice. A prayer has, thus,

 been made for dismissal of the petition. 8. This Court has considered the rival submissions. 9. It is certainly not in dispute that the petitioner was not arrayed as an accused

 when the initial complaint came to be instituted on 22.1.2021. It was much

 later when co-accused Pranjil Batra disclosed involvement of the petitioner

 that the petitioner was arrayed as an accused and a supplementary complaint

 came to be filed against him on 20.5.2022. 10. As per the evidence collected during investigation, including the information

 retrieved from co-accused Pranjil Batra's laptop, a major component of the

 amounts so collected by ponzi companies run by Radhe Shyam and Bansi

 Lal and also through their associates was transferred to various bogus

 entities/shell companies through bank transfers/RTGS/NEFT bank

 transactions, in the guise of business transactions or was withdrawn as cash.

 During investigation, it was revealed that the petitioner was instrumental in

 facilitating Pranjil Batra for purchasing/acquiring 10 dummy/paper/fictitious

 companies in cash consideration to the tune of `42 crores through

 'accommodation' entries and the petitioner being, a Chartered Accountant,

 was fully aware about conversion of cash through 'accommodation' entry.

 Further, the petitioner not only advised co-accused Pranjil Batra to purchase

 the paper/dummy companies but also facilitated him in acquiring the same

 and also transfer of funds from the accounts of Global Infocom Pvt. Ltd.,

 Vishal International Pvt. Ltd., Deewan Financial Corporation Ltd., Nihantri

 Realtors Pvt. Ltd., Forrader Tradex (India) Pvt. Ltd. into companies acquired

 by co-accused Pranjil Batra in the name of his employees. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 7 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M) 11. Though, at this stage, there is no direct evidence as regards the monetary

 benefit which the petitioner had gained but, in any case, he, with his

 expertise as a Chartered Accountant, having facilitated co-accused in

 acquiring dummy companies through paper transactions and effecting

 'accommodation' entries for the purpose of giving effect to fraud and for

 adjustment of proceeds of crime, his complicity would be clearly evident

 particularly when examined in light of the meaning of "proceeds of crime",

 "property" and "money laundering", as defined in Section 2(1)(u) , 2(1)(v) and Section 3 of the PMLA, which are reproduced herein-under :- Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that, - 12. The role of the petitioner when examined in light of the aforesaid

 definitions make it clearly apparent that he has indulged into money

 laundering by way of facilitating co-accused in execution of the fraud

 through dubious modus-operandi, as detailed above. 13. Money laundering criminals use shell companies because shell companies

 are commercial companies that appear legitimate but are actually controlled

 by criminals. These shell companies mix illegal funds with legitimate funds

 to hide unfair income. Front companies are not only aiming to make a profit

 but also to protect illegal funds. By using shell companies and other

 investments in legitimate companies, money laundering proceeds are used to

 control industry or other sectors leading to monetary instability due to

 improper distortions in asset prices. It also provides a way to avoid taxation

 and, thus, deprive the country of income. Money laundering promotes

 crime and corruption that slows economic growth and decreases productivity

 in the real sector economy. Any developing country with a reputation as a

 haven for money laundering could have significant negative consequences

 for development. Foreign financial institutions can limit their transactions

 with institutions from money laundering havens, stop their investments,

 make transactions more expensive, and be subject to extra scrutiny. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 9 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M) 14. As such, the PMLA was promulgated to check money laundering and

 stringent provisions have been incorporated therein as money laundering

 cripples the economy of a nation. Section 24 of the PMLA provides that

 when a person is accused of having committed the offence under Section 3 ,

 the burden of proving that 'proceeds of crime' is untainted property shall be

 on the accused. Section 44 of the PMLA is another section in the string of

 strict provisions which provides for continuity of commission of offence as

 long as all the 'proceeds of crime' are not recovered and empowers the

 investigating agency to file supplementary complaints upon surfacing of any

 fresh evidence and such complaint is to be tried along with the initial

 complaint. As such, since properties to the tune of `262 crores only having

 been recovered or attached despite the colossal volume of scam somewhere

 to the tune of `3,000 crores, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner

 could yield further invaluable information as regards involvement of any

 other accused or for recovery of the proceeds of crime. 15. During the course of arguments, the learned counsel for the petitioner

 vehemently argued that the instant petition being a case of anticipatory bail

 wherein the investigating officer had not even chosen to arrest the petitioner

 initially, the rigors of Section 45 of the PMLA would not get attracted to the

 present case. The learned counsel, in order to hammer forth his aforesaid

 statement, places reliance upon a judgment rendered by Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in 2022 SCC OnLine SC 825 Satender Kumar Antil Versus Central

 Bureau of Investigation and Another and also a judgment of Hon'ble Delhi

 High Court rendered in Bail Appln. 559/2022 - Rana Kapoor Vs.

 Directorate of Enforcement . KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 10 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M) 16. This Court has considered the aforesaid contentions and has also gone

 through the judgments relied upon by learned counsel for the petitioner.

 This Court is unable to accept the aforesaid contentions, particularly in view

 of recent judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court (by three Hon'ble Judges) in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary 's case (supra), the relevant extracts from which

 are reproduced herein under :- obstante clause in Section 45(1) of the 2002 Act, the sweep of that provision must
 prevail in terms of Section 71 of the 2002 Act. Further, the expression "anticipatory
 bail" is not used either in the 1973 Code or the 2002 Act. The relief granted in terms
 of Section 438 of the 1973 Code is one of directing release of the person on "bail" in
 case of his arrest; and such a relief has been described in judicial pronouncements as
 anticipatory bail. Section 45(1) uses generic expression "bail" without reference to
 any provision of the 1973 Code, such as Sections 437, 438 and 439 of the 1973
 Code. Concededly, Section 65 of the 2002 Act states that the provisions of the 1973
 Code shall apply to the provisions under the Act insofar as they are not inconsistent
 with the provisions of the 2002 Act. Further, Section 71 of the Act gives overriding
 effect to the Act. Section 45 of the Act begins with a non-obstante clause, thus
 excluding the application of the 1973 Code in matters related to "bail". The word
 "anticipatory bail" has not been defined under the 1973 Code. In Sushila Aggarwal,
 it was held as under: KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document arrest bail order under Section 438 and the bail order under Sections 437
 and 439 is the stages at which the bail order is passed. The bail order under Section 438 CrPC is prior to his arrest and in anticipation of his arrest and
 the order of bail under Sections 437 and 439 is after a person is arrested. A
 bare reading of Section 438 CrPC shows that there is nothing in the
 language of the Section which goes to show that the pre-arrest bail granted
 under Section 438 has to be time-bound. The position is the same as in
 Section 437 and Section 439 CrPC." (emphasis supplied) 408. Thus, anticipatory bail is nothing but a bail granted in anticipation of arrest, hence, it
 has been held in various judgments by this Court that the principles governing the
 grant of bail in both cases are more or less on the same footing, except that in case of
 anticipatory bail the investigation is still underway requiring the presence of the
 accused before investigation authority. Thus, ordinarily, anticipatory bail is granted
 in exceptional cases where the accused has been falsely implicated in an offence
 with a view to harass and humiliate him. Therefore, it would not be logical to
 disregard the limitations imposed on granting bail under Section 45 of the 2002 Act,
 in the case of anticipatory bail as well. ( emphasis supplied ) 17. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary 's case (supra),

 concluded as under: ( emphasis supplied ) 18. It is well known that considerations governing the Court's decision on an

 application seeking pre-arrest bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. are materially

 different from that seeking post-arrest bail. In a case where pre-arrest bail is

 sought by an accused the advantage of custodial interrogation for eliciting

 more and useful information and material is to be kept in view. Besides, the

 exercise of power to grant pre-arrest bail is somewhat extra-ordinary in

 character. Hon'ble Supreme Court, in P. Chidambaram vrs. Directorate of

 Enforcement, reported in (2019) 9 SCC 24, observed that the power of

 anticipatory bail should be sparingly exercised in economic offences and

 held thus: "19. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a serious offence are
 required to be satisfied and further while granting such relief, the
 court must record the reasons therefor. Anticipatory bail can be
 granted only in exceptional circumstances where the court is prima
 facie of the view that the applicant has falsely been enroped in the
 crime and would not misuse his liberty. 78. Power under Section 438 CrPC being an extraordinary remedy, has to be
 exercised sparingly; more so, in cases of economic offences. Economic offences
 stand as a different class as they affect the economic fabric of the society. In Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar Jain , it was held that in economic
 offences, the accused is not entitled to anticipatory bail. 83. Grant of anticipatory bail at the stage of investigation may frustrate the
 investigating agency in interrogating the accused and in collecting the useful
 information and also the materials which might have been concealed. Success
 in such interrogation would elude if the accused knows that he is protected by
 the order of the court. Grant of anticipatory bail, particularly in economic
 offences would definitely hamper the effective investigation. Having regard to
 the materials said to have been collected by the respondent Enforcement
 Directorate and considering the stage of the investigation, we are of the view
 that it is not a fit case to grant anticipatory bail. 84. In a case of money-laundering where it involves many stages of "placement",
 "layering i.e. funds moved to other institutions to conceal origin" and
 "interrogation i.e. funds used to acquire various assets", it requires systematic
 and analysed investigation which would be of great advantage. As held in Anil
 Sharma success in such interrogation would elude if the accused knows that he
 is protected by a pre-arrest bail order. Section 438 CrPC is to be invoked only
 in exceptional cases where the case alleged is frivolous or groundless. In the
 case in hand, there are allegations of laundering the proceeds of the crime. The
 Enforcement Directorate claims to have certain specific inputs from various
 sources, including overseas banks. Letter rogatory is also said to have been
 issued and some response have been received by the Department. Having regard
 to the nature of allegations and the stage of the investigation, in our view, the
 investigating agency has to be given sufficient freedom in the process of
 investigation. Though we do not endorse the approach of the learned Single
 Judge in extracting the note produced by the Enforcement Directorate, we do
 not find any ground warranting interference with the impugned order655.
 Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, in our view, grant of
 anticipatory bail to the appellant will hamper the investigation and this is not a
 fit case for exercise of discretion to grant anticipatory bail to the appellant." (emphasis supplied) 19. The aforesaid judgments leaves no manner of doubt that twin conditions

 imposed by Section 45 of the PMLA are applicable with full force even

 while considering anticipatory bail. When stringent conditions have been

 imposed in a case where a person has already been subjected to custodial

 interrogation and is in custody, it furnishes all the more reasons to apply the

 said stringent twin conditions in case of grant of anticipatory bail. As such,

 the contentions raised on behalf of counsel for the petitioner in this regard

 cannot be accepted. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 14 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M) 20. It may here be mentioned that the constitutional validity of provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA-2002, imposing twin conditions for grant of bail,

 which were also there before amendment of Section 45 PMLA in 2018, was

 questioned before Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Nikesh Tarachand Shah vs.

 Union of India (2018)11 SCC 1 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court, after

 holding that the prescribed twin conditions for release on bail were violative

 of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India, declared Section 45(1) of

 the PMLA, to that extent, to be unconstitutional. Subsequently, Section

 45(1) of the PMLA was amended w.e.f. 19.04.2018. whereby the words

 "punishable for a term of imprisonment of more than three years under

 Part-A of the Schedule" as occurring in Section 45(1) before being declared

 unconstitutional by the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Nikesh

 Tarachand Shah 's case (supra) were substituted with the words "under this

 Act". The validity and interpretation of amended provisions was also

 examined by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhry and

 others vs. Union of India (supra) and the Supreme Court, upheld the

 amended provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA, wherein the twin conditions

 in the matter of grant of bail were incorporated in the same manner, as had

 been existing before amendment. In other words, the twin conditions

 prescribed in Section 45(1) of the PMLA stood revived with amendment in

 2018. 21. The fetter imposed by Section 45 of the PMLA in the matter of grant of bail,

 having been restored, as is evident from the judgments referred to above and

 also that the said fetters are equally applicable while considering grant of

 anticipatory bail, it goes without saying that the twin conditions as regards

 the Courts satisfaction that there are reasonable grounds for believing that KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 15 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 the accused is not guilty and also that the accused, if granted bail is not

 likely to commit similar offence again is sine-qua-non in the matter of grant

 of bail. Rather, the said conditions are required to be applied more strictly in

 a case of anticipatory bail than in a case of regular bail where petitioner has

 already been subjected to custodial interrogation undisputedly as custodial

 interrogation is more elicitive. The present case where a huge part of

 "proceeds of crime" is yet to be recovered, the custodial interrogation is

 infact indispensable. 22. The co-accused Pranjil Batra, in his statement, has disclosed several material

 facts as regards the modus operandi adopted by the accused for the purpose

 of commission of offences in the present case and has specifically

 nominated the petitioner to have been instrumental in facilitating co-accused

 Pranjil Batra for purchasing/acquiring 10 dummy/paper/fictitious companies

 in cash considerations to the tune of `42 crores through 'accommodation'

 entries and also got recovered his laptop which contained vital information,

 particularly as regards the acquisition of 10 shell companies, the acquisition

 of which had been facilitated by the petitioner. As such, the complicity of

 petitioner is clearly evident. In case of offences of the nature of 'white

 collar crime', finer details are unearthed with the interrogation of each

 accused. As already stated above, the properties attached till date are to the

 tune of `290 crores only which is merely a tip of the iceberg inasmuch as

 the total scam is in respect of about `3000 crores and for which further leads

 are required to be elicited to trace all the proceeds of crime. At this stage,

 there is nothing to show that the petitioner is innocent or that in case granted

 bail, he will not flee from justice or that he will not commit similar offences KAMAL KUMAR 2022.12.23 15:31 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 16 CRM-M-56737-2022 (O&M)

 again. As such, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, as

 discussed in earlier portion of this order, particularly the enormity of the

 scam wherein a substantial part of proceeds of crime is yet to be located and

 recovered, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner would be

 indispensable. Thus, no special case for grant of anticipatory bail to

 petitioner is made out. The petition is sans merit and is hereby dismissed.