BRIEF STATEMENT OF THE FACTS FOR DECISION: PROSECUTION EVIDENCE: She has deposed that she has two sons namely Dinesh and
 Mahesh and four daughters namely Pinki, Nanni, Jyoti and
 Sapna. On 21.07.2018, her three daughters namely Pinki, Nanni
 and Jyoti were married simultaneously at Faridabad in separate
 houses and three barats had come from different places for
 marriage of all her three daughters. Her deceased daughter Jyoti
 got married to Sachin, S/o Mani Ram, R/o Shanti Colony, Delhi.
 In the marriage of all her three daughters, she had given to their
 in laws motorcycles and other households articles like TV,
Shunali Cooler, Fridge, Washing machine, bed, almirah etc. and Rs 1
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 5/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:01:13 +0530 lakh to each along-with gold chain and gold ring. In the marriage
 of his deceased daughter Jyoti, she had spent around Rs. 4 to 4.5
 lakhs. After two years of the marriage, accused Sachin, his father
 Mani Ram and his mother Dropadi started harassing her daughter
 for bringing less dowry and compelled her to bring more dowry.
 All the accused persons used to beat her daughter and ill-treat her
 for bringing dowry. All the three accused persons demanded Rs.
 5 lacs and Sachin used to say that he had to purchase an auto and
 they will have to pay Rs. 5 lakhs to him. They showed their
 inability to pay further Rs. 5 lakh. On 01.01.2024, accused Sachin, Mani Ram and Dropati
 had given beatings to her daughter and at that time, Karishma
 (Nanad) was also in their house and had thrown out her daughter
 from their house by saying that she should arrange Rs. 5 lacs
 from her parental house. On this Jyoti along-with his son namely
 Gurmeet aged 5 years and daughter aged 2 years had come to her
 house at Nehru colony and had remained there for about 15 to 17
 days. On 18.01.2024 Sachin came to their house and started
 quarrelling for taking Jyoti back to his house. Accused Sachin
 had beaten her deceased daughter Jyoti in her presence. On this,
 she called his father namely Mani Ram and mother Dropadi.
 Then all the three accused persons had demanded Rs. 5 lakhs
 from her. Thereafter, all the three accused persons had taken back
 her daughter from there to the matrimonial house in the
 intervening night of 18-19.01.2024. On 19.01.2024, she had a conversation with her daughter
 on telephone and her daughter told her that Sachin was still
 beating her. On the same day Kishan had telephonically informed
 her at about 4.30 pm that her daughter had expired. After getting
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
 this information, she along-with her husband namely Shri Mal,
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: (ii) PW-2 Sh. Dinesh - brother of the deceased. He has also deposed on the same lines as PW1 Guddi. He
deposed that after two years of marriage, accused Sachin, his
father Mani Ram and his mother Dropadi started harassing his
sister for bringing less dowry and compelled her to bring more
dowry. All the three accused persons used to beat and ill-treat his
sister Jyoti. They all demanded Rs. 5 lakh and Sachin told his
sister that he had to purchase an auto and for this they were
demanding Rs. 5 Lakh from them. They were not in a position to
pay Rs. 5 lakh to the accused persons. On 01.01.2024, accused FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 7/34 Sachin, Mani Ram and Dropadi had given beatings to his sister
 and they threw out his sister Jyoti from their house by saying that
 his sister Jyoti- to arrange Rs. 5 lakh from her parental house.
 On this Jyoti along with his son namely Gurmeet aged 5 years
 and daughter Taniya 2 years had come to their house at Nehru
 colony and had remained there for about 15 to 17 days in their
 house. On 18.01.2024 Sachin had come to his house at around
 8.30 pm and was quarreling for taking his sister Jyoti to his house
 and accused Sachin had beaten his deceased sister Jyoti in his
 presence. On this, they called his father namely Mani Ram and
 mother Dropadi and at that time also all the said three accused
 persons had demanded Rs. 5 lakhs. Thereafter, all the three
 accused persons had taken his sister from his house in the
 intervening night of 18-19.01.2024 at around 1 am. On 19.01.2024, his mother had a telephonic conversation
 with his sister where she told his mother that accused Sachin is
 still beating her and on the same day, one Kishan had
 telephonically informed at about 4.30 pm that his sister had
 expired. After having this information, he along-with his parents
 had gone to Shanti Colony and after reaching there, he found his
 sister Jyoti was hanging with a chunni. His statement was also recorded by SDM Mehrauli,
 Ex.PW2/1 bearing his signature at point A. He has also deposed
 that his father expired on 29.06.2024 and he was well conversant
 with the signatures being his son as he had seen him signing the
 documents. Statement of his father was also recorded by SDM
 Mehrauli and same bears the signature of his father at point A
 and Ex.PW2/2. On 01.03.2024, police had given a notice to his
 father for providing bills of the dowry articles and photographs

Shunali etc, same was received by my father and was Ex.PW2/3, bearing
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 8/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:02:44 +0530 the signature of his father at point A. His father had replied the
 same vide letter Ex.PW2/4, bearing the signature of his father at
 point A. In the mortuary, dead body of his deceased sister was
 identified by him and his father and police had recorded
 identification statements, same were Ex.PW2/5 and Ex.PW2/6,
 bearing his signatures as well as signatures of his father at point
 A on each statements. After conducting postmortem examination,
 dead body was handed over to them vide handing over memo
 Ex.PW2/7, bearing his signature at point A.
 The witness has correctly identified all the three accused
 persons in the Court. During cross examination he deposed that he does not
 remember the registration number of the motorcycle given to the
 accused at the time of marriage. They were called by police for
 recording their statements before SDM Mehrauli. He deposed
 that he cannot tell the date or month when the demand of dowry
 was raised by the accused persons as the same must be in the
 knowledge of his father who was no more in this world. He
 denied all the suggestions put to him that were contrary to the
 prosecution version. (iii) PW3 Kishan Singh- Mediator who arranged the marriage. He has deposed that he had played the role of mediator for
 arranging the marriage between deceased Jyoti and accused
 Sachin and accordingly, the marriage was performed on
 21.07.2018. In the marriage, motorcycle, other household
 articles and gold ring was given to Sachin in his marriage. After
 the marriage, Sachin became habitual for drugs and Ganja and

Shunali used to beat and quarrel deceased Jyoti and Sachin was jobless
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 9/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:02:58 +0530 and used to say to his wife Jyoti to bring money from his parental
 family. Deceased Jyoti died on 19.01.2024 and he came to know
 that one day prior to her death, she was brought back by Sachin
 at Delhi from her Maika. Witness has correctly identified the
 accused Sachin present in the Court. During cross examination he deposed that in marriage of
 the deceased, there was a demand of dowry from the side of
 accused family. After six months to one year of marriage accused
 stopped earning money. Jyoti told this fact to her family
 members. The family members of Jyoti also told him about the
 difficulties faced by her and her matrimonial house. They
 thought that on petty issues they should not go to police station
 or CAW cell. He further deposed that deceased Jyoti remained in
 the matrimonial house for the entire period with quarrel and
 beatings and during the said period she had given birth to two
 children. He denied the suggestion that Jyoti was a high tempered
 lady and could not accommodate herself in the matrimonial
 house. He deposed that accused persons used to harass Jyoti and
 consequent to the said harassment she died. (iv) PW4 SI Sohan Lal - who went to the spot on receipt of
 DD entry. He has deposed that on 19.01.2024 he was posted as SI at PS
 Fatehpur Beri. On that day on receiving of DD No.74A Ex- A3,
 he alongwith HC Munesh reached at the spot i.e. House no. 336,
 Shanti Colony, Mandi Pahari, New Delhi where a lady by the
 name of Jyoti w/o of Sachin was found hanging through a chunni
 with kunda of a ceiling fan and door of the room wherein she was
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
 found hanged was opened and on an inquiry it was revealed that
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: After recording statement, SDM Mehrauli has ordered him
 to get the postmortem examination of the deceased conducted.
 Thereafter, he reached AIIMS mortuary where dead body of the
 Jyoti was identified by his father and brother vide identification
 statement/memos EX.PW-2/5 and EX.PW-2/6 bearing his
 signature at point 'B' on each statements. Thereafter, he prepared
 the death report, same was EX.PW-4/2 bearing his signature at
 point 'A' and vide his request EX. PW-4/3 bearing his signature
 at point 'A' postmortem examination of the deceased was
 conducted. After conducting the postmortem examination dead
 body was handed over to the relatives of the deceased vide
 handing over memo EX.PW-2/7 bearing his signature at point
 'B'. Concerned Doctor had handed over him viscera of the
 deceased and ligature material in sealed condition alongwith
 sample seal and the same was handed over by him to Inspector
 Rajeev Kumar who had taken the same into possession vide
 seizure memo EX.PW-4/4 & EX.PW-4/5 respectively bearing
 his signature at point 'A'. He had also prepared the tehrir for the
Shunali
gupta registration of the FIR same was EX.PW-4/6 bearing his Digitally signed by Shunali gupta Date: 2026.01.22 17:03:52 +0530 FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 11/34 signature at point 'A' whereon the present FIR was registered
 and the investigation of the case was assigned to Inspector
 Rajeev Kumar who had taken into possession the above said
 ligature material and viscera and deposited the same in the
 Malkhana. He had also recorded the statement of PCR caller-
 Suraj Singh and another witness Nirjala. During course of investigation on 21.01.2024, He
 alongwith IO Inspector Rajeev Kumar and HC Munesh reached
 at H. No. 336, Shanti Colony, Mandi Pahari, New Delhi where
 one boy started running away after seeing the police party and on
 suspicion he was apprehended who revealed his name as Sachin
 S/o Mani Ram and he was brought the police station for
 interrogation and during interrogation he confessed his guilt in
 the present case. Thereafter IO Rajeev Kumar arrested him vide
 arrest memo EX.PW-4/7 bearing his signature at point 'A' and
 his personal search memo was conducted vide personal search
 memo EX.PW-4/8 bearing his signature at point 'A' and on his
 disclosure, statement was recorded vide disclosure statement
 memo EX.PW-4/9 (exhibit no. given only for the purpose of
 indentifcation as it is otherwise inadmissible in evidence) bearing
 his signature at point 'A'. Thereafter accused Sachin was got
 medically examined at AIIMS hospital and was produced before
 the Court concerned and was sent to JC. Witness was shown 13 photographs of he spot taken by the
 crime team and the same were duly identified by the witnesss -
 same being the photographs of the spot and deceased.
 Photographs were exhibited as EX.A6 (Colly). Witness has correctly identified the accused Sachin present
 in the Court. During cross examination he admitted that he had not
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: He has deposed that on 20.01.2024, he was posted as inspector at
 PS Fatehpur Beri. On that day after registration of the present
 FIR, the investigation of the case was assigned to him. During
 the course of the investigation he had taken into possession
 viscera of the deceased in sealed condition alongwith sample seal
 vide seizure memo EX.PW-4/4 bearing his signature at point 'B'
 and had also taken into possession ligature material in sealed
 condition alongwith sample seal vide seizure memo EX.PW-4/5
 bearing his signature at point 'B' and deposited the same in the
 malkhana. On the same day, he had prepared the site plan of the
 place where deceased committed suicide at the instance of the
 complainant vide memo EX.PW-5/1 bearing his signature at
 point 'A' and recorded the supplementary statement of the
 witnesses. During the course of the investigation accused Sachin
 was enquired and interrogated, thereafter he was arrested vide
 arrest memo EX. PW-4/7 bearing his signature at point 'B' and
 his personal search memo was conducted vide meme EX.PW-4/8
 bearing his signature at point 'B' and on his disclosure had
 recorded his statement vide memo EX.PW4/9 bearing his
 signature at point 'B' and after getting his medical examination
 accused Sachin was sent to the JC. Thereafter on his tranfer
 investigation was transferred to other official. During the course
 of the investigation he had recorded the statement of the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: (vi) PW6 Insp. Aditya Malik - the Second IO of the case who
 concluded the investigation and filed the chargesheet in the
 Court. He deposed that on 02.02.2024, he was posted as Inspector at PS
 Fatehpur Beri. On that day, on tranfer of earlier IO Insp. Rajiv
 Kumar, investigation of the case was assigned to him. During the
 course of the investigation, he recorded the statement of Incharge
 Crime Team, photographer and also recorded the statement of
 brother of the deceased namely Mahesh and PCR caller Suraj
 Singh and also recorded the mediator of the said marriage. On
 01.03.2024, he had given notice to complainant Shrimal for
 providing list of dowry articles, their invoices, photographs of the
 marriage, police complaint, if any, and treatment documents of
 the deceased, if any and call recordings/ video recordings etc.
 Same was exhibited as ExPW2/3 bearing his signtature at point B
 and in response of the said notice, on 04.03.2024, complainant
 had given his reply same was exhibited as ExPW2/4 bearing his
 signature at point B wherein no document was provided by him.
 On 04.03.2024, he had collected the postmortem examination
 report of the deceased wherein cause of death was opined as
 "Asphyxia due to anti mortem hanging" and same was placed on
 record. On 19.03.2024 seized exhibits by the earlier IO was sent
Shunali to RFSL Chanakyapuri. During the course of investigation, he
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta Date: 2026.01.22 17:05:17 +0530 FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 14/34 procured the CDR of the mobile no.s of accused Sachin, his
 father Mani Ram and brother of the deceased namely Mahesh.
 After receiving the said CDRs of the said mobile nos. alongwith
 CAFs it was revealed that on 18.01.2024, accused Sachin had
 gone to Faridabad and returned back at around 01.30 am of
 19.01.2024 and was present at his house till 12.30 pm of
 19.01.2024 and after 12.30 pm location of the mobile phone of
 accused sachin was found at Gurgaon and thereafter at around
 03.43 pm his location was found at his house. Analysis of the
 CDR reveals that conversation had occurred between the
 deceased and her brother at around 01 am and 09 am on
 19.01.2024. CDR of the accused Maniram revealed that on
 18.01.2024 in the night hours, brother of the deceased namely
 Dinesh called on his mobile number and thereafter further it was
 revealed that accused Maniram had also visited at the maternal
 house of deceased Jyoti. Accused Maniram and Dropati were
 also interrogated and they were also chargesheeted and during
 investigation no incriminating evidence came on record against
 Karishma and she was kept in column no. 12 as suspect. During
 the course of investigation, he recorded the statement of
 witnesses, collected DD entries 74A, exhibited as Ex.A3, PCR
 call exhibited as Ex.A4 also got prepared scaled site plan from
 the draftsman already exhibited as Ex.A5, crime team report
 alongwith photographs, same were exhibited as Ex.A6 (colly).
 Also collected CDRs of the mobile no. bearing 8447511838 of
 accused Maniram and same was exhibited as Ex.A10 (colly) and
 same was found in the use of accused Sachin, also collected
 CDRs and CAFs pertaining to mobile nos. 8368797901(used by
 Mahesh, brother of the deceased) and 7678606264 (used by
 accused Maniram) and same were exhibited as Ex.A11 (colly)
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: 8. No other prosecution witness was examined and on the
 submissions made by the Ld. Additional PP for the state, PE was
 closed vide order dated 30.10.2025. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED PERSONS U/S 313 Cr.P.C .: 9. Statement of accused persons namely Sachin, Mani Ram
 and Dropadi were recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C in which all the
 incriminating circumstances appearing in evidence were put to
 them. The accused persons controverted and denied the entire
 incriminating evidence put to them. They stated that none of
 them have ever demanded Rs. 5 lakh from the deceased or her
 family. They have not received any dowry articles in marriage.
 They are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the
 present case. Accused persons opted not to lead any defence evidence. 10. Arguments addressed by Ld. Addl. PP for the State Sh.
 Anil and Sh. R.K. Gupta, Ld. DCLADC for the accused persons
 have been heard. Record perused. Shunali
gupta Digitally signed FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 17/34 by Shunali gupta Date: 2026.01.22 17:05:43 +0530 ARGUMENTS BY ADDL. PP FOR THE STATE 11. Ld. Additional PP for State has argued that prosecution
 witnesses have fully supported the case of prosecution on all
 material aspects and their testimony has remained unrebutted.
 PW1 & PW2 both have categorically deposed that the deceased
 Jyoti was subjected to cruelty and harassment by the accused
 persons while she was her in matrimonial house and pressurised
 to bring Rs. 5 lakh from her parents as dowry. She was tortured
 to such an extent that she eventually committed suicide by
 hanging herself through a noose made of chunni. The death as
 well as the cause of death both have been proved by way of
 medical evidence which stands unrebutted. Also, the death
 occurred soon after she was subjected to cruelty and therefore
 there is direct nexus between the harassment caused and the
 death of deceased. The prosecution has been able to prove its
 case and therefore the accused persons are liable to be convicted
 for the offences they have been charged with. ARGUMENTS BY LD. DEFENCE COUNSEL. 12. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the accused persons has
 submitted that the prosecution case primarily rests on the
 testimony of only two witnesses i.e. PW1 and PW2 being the
 mother and brother of the deceased. They both being the close
 relatives of the deceased are obvioulsy interested witnesses.
 Their testimonies cannot be relied upon. Apart from that there is
 no other independent prosecution witness who testified the
 allegations of harassment or cruelty for the purpose of dowry.
 Thus, in the absence of any independent witness who proves such
Shunali serious allegations, the prosecution case has not been proved and
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 18/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:06:09 +0530 the accused persons are liable to be acquitted of the charges. 13. Before adverting to the facts of the present case and
 appreciating the contentions raised, the relevant provisions of law
 and the essential ingredients that are required to be proved by the
 prosecution in order to prove the guilt of the accused persons are
 reproduced herein under: Section 113B of Indian Evidence Act: 14. For proving the offence u/s 498A / 304B IPC, the
 prosecution was required to establish that woman was subjected
 to cruelty or harassment either by husband of the woman or by
 the relative of the husband. For the purpose of this section,
 cruelty means any willful conduct which is of such nature as is
 likely to drive a woman to commit suicide or to cause grave
 injury to her or where such harassment is with a view to coercing
 her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for
 any property or is on account of failure by her to make that
 demand. Cruelty for the purpose of constituting the offence u/s
 498A IPC need not be physical. Even mental torture
 tenatamounts to cruelty within the meaning of section 498A IPC. 15. The prosecution is further required to prove the
 foundational facts before presumption of law is attracted and the
 burden of proof is shifted upon the accused. Presumption under
 section 113B is a presumption of law that shall be raised only on
 proof of the following essentials; (i) The death of a woman must have been caused by burns or
 bodily injury or otherwise than under normal
 circumstances. (ii) Such death must have occurred within seven years of her
 marriage. Shunali
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 20/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:06:41 +0530 (iii) The woman was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her
 husband or his relatives. (iv) Such cruelty or harassment was for, or in connection with
 any demand for dowry. (v) The woman is subjected to such cruelty or harassment
 soon before her death. 16. Now, in light of the above provisions of the law, it has to
 be seen whether the prosecution has been able to prove that the
 deceased was subjected to cruelty or harassment by the accused
 persons after the marriage on account of dowry demands. 17. Now the prime prosecution witnesses are - PW1 Smt.
 Guddi, who is the mother of the deceased and PW2 Sh. Dinesh,
 who is the brother of the deceased. The father of the deceased
 namely Sh. Shri Mal whose statement was also recorded by the
 police could not be examined as before recording of the evidence
 he expired. 18. Now PW1 in her testimony has categorically deposed that
 at the time of marriage, she had given motor cycle, other
 household articles, Rs. 1 lakh, gold chain, gold ring etc.to the
 accused persons. She had spent around 4-4.5 lakhs in marriage.
 After two years of marriage accused Sachin, his father Maniram
 and his mother Dropadi started harassing daughter for bringing
 less dowry and compelled her to bring more dowry. All the three
 accused persons used to beat her daughter and ill treat her for
 bringing less dowry. They used to demand Rs. 5 Lakh in order to
 purchase an auto. On 01.01.2024, all the three accused persons
 threw out the deceased from their house and asked to arrange Rs.
 5 lakhs from her parental house. The deceased alongwith her two
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta gupta Date: FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 21/34 2026.01.22
 17:07:03
 +0530
 minor children came to the house of PW2 where she stayed for
 15 to 17 days. On 18.01.2024, accused Sachin came to their
 house and started quarrelling with them to take the deceased to
 his house. He gave beatings to the deceased in the presence of
 PW1. Accused Mani Ram and Dropadi were also called and
 when they reached, they also started demanding Rs. 5 lakh from
 them. They took the deceased back to the matromonial house in
 the night and in the next morning i.e. on 19.01.2024, the
 deceased telephonically informed PW1 that accused Sachin was
 still beating her. Thus PW1 has clearly, cohorently and categorically
 deposed about the reason why her daughter was being harassed
 by her in-laws and also the manner in which cruelty was being
 inflicted upon her. She was tortured mentally as well as
 physically so that pressure is created upon on the deceased as
 well as her family members to meet their demand of dowry of
 Rs. 5 lakhs. It may be noted that PW1 has specifically deposed
 the exact date i.e. on 01.01.2025 on which the deceased was
 thrown out of her matromonial house by her in-laws asking her to
 bring Rs. 5 lakhs from her parents. PW1 has also deposed about
 the exact date i.e. on 18.01.2024 on which accused Sachin came
 to their house for taking back the deceased. Also, the time i.e. 1
 AM (around midnight) on 19.01.2024 when finally after
 discussions the accused persons took back the deceased from her
 house to her matrimonial house. Further, the date on which she
 finally expired due to the harassment and the constant torture
 given by accused persons. The allegations are specific and not
 vague - they are date wise and also event wise. This witness was
 cross examined by Ld. Defence Counsel, however, she stood by
Shunali the test of the cross examination and nothing contradictory to the
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 22/34 Date: 2026.01.22 17:07:24 +0530 prosecution version came out during her cross examination that
 could impeach her credibility or mark any dent in the prosecution
 case. In fact, her deposition, I must say is of sterling quality,
 absolutely unimpeachable and categorical on all material aspects.
 The best witness to whom the deceased would have confided
 would be her mother - moreso just one day before the death she
 was with her for last 17-18 days owing to the cruelties and
 continuous demand for dowry made to her by her husband as
 well as her in-laws. 19. The version of PW2 is also on the similar lines as PW1.
 He has also deposed exactly as PW1 about the chain of events,
 incidents and the manner in which her sister/deceased Jyoti was
 ill treated and harassed by her in-laws to pressurise her to bring
 more dowry from her parents. He has also deposed that when
 accused Sachin came to their house on 18.01.2024, he gave
 beatings to the deceased in his presence. During cross
 examination he admitted that he had not given any receipts or bill
 to the police regarding purchase of household articles or gold
 articles given in the marriage. However, the said fact is not
 relevant at all to determine the aspect of harassment or cruelty
 meted out with the deceased after the marriage. Also there is no
 charge against the accused persons u/s 406 IPC. PW2 stood by
 the test of cross examination on all material aspects and nothing
 contrary to the prosecution case could be seen in his cross
 examination. Thus, the evidence of PW2 also strengthens and
 supports the prosecution version. 20. Coming to the evidence of PW3 Kishan Singh who had
 played the role of mediator in arranging the marriage between the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: 21. Ld. Defence Counsel has argued that PW1 & PW2 are
 both interested witness being the family members of the deceased
 and therefore their testimonies cannot be relied upon. Now, this
 argument of the Ld. Defence Counsel is also not tenable in view
 of the settled position of law held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the case titled as State Of Punjab Vs Iqbal Singh And Ors , AIR
 1991 SC 1532, that it cannot be ignored that such crimes are
 generally committed in four corners of matrimonial homes and in
 secrecy and hence, independent and direct evidence is ordinarily
 not available. Merely, that the prosecution witnesses happen to
 be family members does not take away the credibility of their
 testimony unless the veracity of the testimony is shaken. In such
 case as the present one, mostly the members of the family are the
 only witnesses and no public person can be said to have
 witnessed such crimes. Further, PW3 has also supported the

 Digitally
 prosecution version that the accused persons used to harass or
 signed by
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: 22. In view of the discussions above, from the testimony of
 PW1, PW2 and PW3 the prosecution has been able to show that
 the deceased Jyoti was subjected to cruelty or harassment by the
 accused persons on account of unlawful demand for dowry. 23. Now coming to the second limb of offence - Section 304B IPC. First and foremost, to attract the offence stipulated under Section 304 B IPC, death of a woman must be a "dowry death".
 As per Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 'dowry' means
 any property or valuable security which can be given or agreed to
 be given, either directly or indirectly by one party to a marriage
 to the other party or by the parents of either party to a marriage
 or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any
 other persons. Such giving or agreeing to give can be at any time-
 at, before or at any time after the marriage. Such giving or
 agreeing to give must be in connection with the marriage of the
 parties. 24. As per the settled propositions of law, in order to convict
 Digitally
 signed by
 an accused for the offence punishable under Section 304B IPC,
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: As far as this aspect is concerned, the postmortem report of
 deceased i.e. Ex.A7 and MLC of deceased i.e. Ex.A8 that have
 been duly proved on record. It proves that the death of the
 deceased Jyoti was caused by hanging through the noose -
 asphyxia due to antemortem hanging which is obviously
 unnatural and was not under normal circumstances. (ii) Such death must have occurred with in seven years of her
 marriage - It is admitted case that deceased Jyoti was married to
 accused Sachin on 21.07.2018 and she died on 19.01.2024 which
 is within seven years of her marriage, hence, this aspect also
 stands duly proved. (iii) Soon before her death, the woman must have been
 subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or by relatives
 of her husband - (iv) Such cruelty or harassment must be for or in connected
 with demand for dowry and such cruelty or harassment is shown
 to have been meted out to the woman soon before her death - Now this aspect that she was subjected to cruelty or
 harassment by her husband and by relatives of her husband in
 connection with demand for dowry has been duly proved in the
 discussion made in the preceding paragraphs. On the aspect of
 proximity between cruelty and death, I may place reliance upon
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
 the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Hira Lal
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: 25. Further, Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarsem
 Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2008) 16 SCC 155 held as under: 26. Reverting to the facts of the case, the evidence of PW1 and
 PW2 categorically speaks of cruelty inflicted upon the deceased
 just before her death. Witnesses have deposed that on 18.01.2024 - when accused Sachin came to their house for taking back the
 deceased, he gave beatings to the deceased in their presence.
 Further, on the next day i.e. 19.01.2024, the deceased
 telephonically informed PW1 that accused Sachin is still beating
 her. And on the same day at around 4 PM she was found dead.
 This version of the testimonies of PW1 and PW2 has not at all
 been impeached or even contradicted during cross examination.
 Thus, it is clearly proved that the deceased was subjected to
 cruelty just or soon before her death and there is a direct nexus
 between her death and dowry related cruelty inflicted upon her.
 Important to note herein that the version of PW1 and PW2 on
 this aspect also finds corroboration from the CDR of accused
 Sachin and Mani Ram obtained by the IO during the course of
 investigation. Call detail records of Sachin and Mani Ram of
 18.01.2024 and 19.01.2024 are on record Ex.A10 and Ex.A11
 respectively. From the CDR analysis the following things have
 come out: 19.01.2024. (iv) Calls made from the phone of Dinesh to accused Mani
 Ram at 9:50 PM and 10 PM on 18.01.2024. Thus, these call records clearly show that the accused
 Sachin went to the house of parents of deceased on 18.01.2024 at
 around 10 PM. The brother of deceased also made a call to
 accused Maniram at around 10 PM. Accused Sachin took the
 deceased Jyoti alongwith him to the matrimonial house at night.
 Again in the next morning i.e. on 19.01.2024 at around 9 AM
 call was made to accused Sachin by brother of deceased. Thus,
 the version of PW1 and PW2 stands fully corroborated from the
 call detail records which proves that the witnesses have deposed
 truthfully and their testimonies can be relied upon. 27. Delving further, the beatings given by accused Sachin to
 deceased Jyoti on 18.01.2024 and 19.01.2024 are proximate to
 the time of her death. The version of PW1 and PW2 that they
 were informed by Jyoti telephonically at around 9 AM on
 19.01.2024 that accused Sachin is still beating her, the presence
 of accused Sachin in the house on the said date till around 12:30
 PM (as per CDR record), the deceased committing suicide at or
 before 4 PM on the same day (DD entry Ex.A3 received
 regarding death was made at 4:02 PM) clinches this aspect and
 clearly establishes that she was subjected to cruelty by accused
 Sachin soon or rather just before her death. Further the cruelty, as
Shunali already proved, was in connection with demand of accused to
gupta Digitally signed by Shunali gupta Date: 2026.01.22 17:12:40 +0530 FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 30/34 bring money from her parents house. Thus, in so far as accused
 Sachin is concerned, the prosecution by way of clear, cogent and
 reliable evidence has been able to establish that accused Sachin
 had caused cruelty upon deceased to meet his unlawful demand
 for dowry which led the deceased to commit suicide. 28. However, as regards accused Mani Ram and Dropadi,
 though PW1 & PW2 have deposed that even they used to inflict
 cruelty upon deceased to meet their demand for dowry but there
 is no evidence qua them regarding beatings given to deceased
 Jyoti or cruelty inflicted upon her on 18.01.2024 or on
 19.01.2024. There is no specific allegation of harassment made
 by these accused persons to deceased after she left her parental
 house on 18.01.2024. Thus the cause of death of deceased cannot
 be attributed to the cruelty or harassment made by these two
 accused persons with certainty. The allegations are directed
 towards accused Sachin of having beaten her on the day when
 she committed suicide. 29. To sum up, all the essential requirements under law to
 establish the offence u/s 304B IPC as discussed above have been
 duly proved by the prosecution. As per law, once the essential
 requirements are established, the presumption under law as per
 section 113B is attracted and the onus shifts upon the accused
 persons to prove that the death of the deceased was not dowry
 death. It is argument of Ld. Counsel for accused persons that for
 raising the presumption of law, prerequisites should be
 established beyond reasonable doubt. Digitally
 signed by 30. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sher Singh @
 Shunali
Shunali gupta
gupta Date: Thereafter, the word "deemed" used in that Section is to be read
 down to require an accused to prove his innocence, but beyond
 reasonable doubt. The "deemed" culpability of the accused
 leaving no room for the accused to prove innocence was,
 accordingly, read down to a strong "presumption" of his
 culpability. However, the accused is required to dislodge this
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali Shunali gupta FIR No. 67/24 State v. Sachin & Ors. Page 32/34 gupta Date: However, the accused Sachin has not led any evidence. He has
 not been able to rebut the said presumption by leading any
 evidence in the form of positive evidence or by relying upon
 contradictions or infirmities in the testimonies of prosecution
 witnesses. In other words from the testimony of prosecution
 witnesses discussed in the preceding paragraphs, prosecution has
 been able to discharge its initial onus and has established the
 essential requirements of law under Section 304B IPC whereas
 the accused Sachin has miserably failed to discharge the
 onus/rebut the presumption under Section 113B of Indian
 Evidence Act and could not prove on record that it was not a
 Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
 dowry death. Shunali gupta
gupta Date: Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali Shunali gupta
 Date: Containing 34 pages all signed by the presiding officer. Digitally
 signed by
 Shunali
 Shunali gupta
 gupta Date: