What’s the news: India’s Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took the help of big tech companies Amazon and Microsoft to conduct search and seizure operations in several call centres across several states of India masquerading as technical support representatives of said companies. According to both Amazon and Microsoft , the centres impacted over 2,000 customers internationally.

Impersonators targeted US, UK, Germany users: As per the CBI press release, the call centres set-up in parts of Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana pretended to be the customer support for Amazon and Microsoft. They “systematically preyed on foreign nationals,” mainly from US, UK and Germany, said the CBI.

“It was also alleged that these scammers would contact the victims via internet pop-up messages that falsely appeared to be security alerts from these MNCs (Complainants). The pop-up messages fraudulently claimed that the consumer’s computer was having various technical issues,” said the CBI adding that such activities allegedly went on for the past five years.

The accused would then sell/extend various fake subscriptions and then dupe customers into giving them remote access of the computer. The centres would then allegedly make them pay hundreds of dollars for unnecessary services. The CBI has now confiscated 32 mobile phones, 48 laptops/hard disks, images of two servers, 33 SIM cards, and pen drives. Further, it seized a dump of 15 email accounts and froze numerous bank accounts.

Earlier, during a MediaNama event, Anand Venkatnarayan , a cybersecurity researcher and DeepStrat Co-Founder, talked about how there are call centers with hundreds of people with nearly 45 different ways in which to swindle money from people. In June 2023, Hindustan Times also published a detailed report on how these call-centres delegate work to employees and function as “epicentres of fraud.”

Article continues below , you might also want to read:

Operation supported by Amazon and Microsoft: This CBI operation, called Chakra-II, was supported by a joint referral made by Microsoft and Amazon, which enabled the exchange of actionable intelligence and insights with law enforcement agencies.

“This collaboration marks the first time Microsoft and Amazon have joined forces to combat tech support fraud… Joining forces helps us more effectively protect individuals globally and prevent criminals from impersonating the Microsoft and Amazon brands to target innocent and unsuspecting victims,” said Microsoft adding that other users from Canada, Australia, Spain, were also affected by these scams.

Similarly, Kathy Sheehan , Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Business Conduct & Ethics of Amazon, thanked the CBI and said, “Amazon will remain vigilant and persistent in our efforts to stay one step ahead of fraudsters, but we cannot win this fight alone. We encourage others in the industry to join us as a united front against criminal activity.”

India’s intelligence unit cracks crypto-scam: Aside from the call-centre scam, India’s Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-India) also cracked a sophisticated crypto-currency fraud operation.

“This audacious scheme, under the guise of a fake crypto mining operation, allegedly targeted unsuspecting Indian citizens, resulting in a staggering loss of over Rs. 100 crore to Indian victims,” said the CBI.

The accused herein developed a false cryptocurrency token and fake website to attract investors with promises of “substantial returns from investments in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies mining.”

Initially, the investors were allegedly given returns to gain their trust, but all payments ceased after August 2021, said the CBI.

“The accused allegedly amassed approximately Rs. 168.75 crore through the services of a payment aggregator, leaving the investors in financial distress. It was further alleged that the fraudsters even developed dedicated applications to further deceive their victims. During investigation, 150 accounts were identified which included accounts of 46 shell companies, 42 proprietorship firms & 50 individual accounts, serving as conduits for collecting funds from the public, laundering the received funds, and transferring them to the ultimate beneficiaries. A majority of these funds were allegedly channeled through dormant shell companies and personal savings and current accounts,” said CBI.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event