SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Frustrated Indian
DATE: 2018-04-07
SCORE: 53
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8ad37q/frustrated_indian/

--- POST TEXT ---

What do you guys think?

For every CBSE paper leak, we had AIEEE paper leak.For every NiMo Scam that we enjoy now, we had coalgate scams. For every Spectrum Auction Rule tweak to keep Jio the undisputed leader, we had 2g scams. For every Dhulagarh Riots that we have now, we used to have intense Reservations debates.

Whoever takes over the reins will fill their pockets.

Can I ask you how the Fuck even a loss making company can donate via electoral bonds? Can I ask you why the 7.5% cap was removed?

If Corruption had to be ended, why the fuck did the government go after demonetisation, rather than directing RBI to reveal the names of NPA scammers?

CbC MCAA was agreed with OECD countries in 2015. How many of the Swiss bank account black money has been attached? None.

Why not attach aadhar to voter? Because all their agenda would go down the drain?

The CJI when accused, uses Master of Roster clause to bypass the petition.

The greatest actor of india, Mr bachchan, has his name to every paradise and panama and bofors etc.etc.

Hugplomacy never works. India with its policies are a joke to the rest of the world. A country with millions of talented minds and humongous resources stand defeated to the whims of "ami chandannagarer mal. Pocket e mal niye ghure berai", Sasikala, "Vedas had superior equations than mc2" etc.

Army men spreading propaganda on LSTV. Deep state. Intelligence. All getting hold of Dawood Ibrahim and fighting proxy wars. Now I got a suggestion. Stop scamming people. Pakistan politics needs the India issue to survive. Not india. And for all your 56 inches, you couldn't fudge China even 56 inches in doklam.

Standing 70 years after independence, the education standards are poor, so are the health standards.

The state of Rajasthan, which to my knowledge is a stronghold of our present ruling party, had the lowest per capita expenditure on health. Yeah. 940 rupees per annum. That too taking all the "mistargeted exclusions". All is left in the hands of the pvt hospitals, which, well charge 4000 rupees for a bedsheet offered to the dead.

All that you learn in the name of nationalism is a joke. All that you were taught about secularism, when some other party was in power before 2014, was a joke.

You want transparency? Get all land and income records on Blockchain and decentralize it.

Yeah, we did IBC and got promoted in ease of biz. IBC once it allows promoters, will allow them a backdoor entry to own the company. Yeah. See, I own a company x. I won't repay the loans, and manipulate to keep Xs financial strengths as weak as possible. So it will be difficult to get buyers. So the bank sells to me as am the highest bidder. I inturn send 10% via electoral bonds as...

The country doesn't have a fucking data protection law. All we have is Section 43A of IT act. If some data breach happens after our bank accounts are mandatorily linked to this shit, we are fucked.

And once Nirav Modi has fled with 12k crores, Deshbhakti ke nam pe, (read jumle ke nam pe) thoda BAIL IN kara lena.

We need a fucking clearout of both these idiotic autocratic giants. Otherwise we will always be in a shambolic mess

NB: Reposted, since the previous time it was taken down as I had not attached Flair