(Per: HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE)

 Date : 16-02-2024

 The two appeals are by the assessee against a

 common order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Patna

 Bench, in two appeals before the Tribunal, from the common

 order of the First Appellate Authority; one by the revenue and

 the other by the assessee. Patna High Court MA No.507 of 2015 dt.16-02-2024 2/7 2. We shall first take up the appeal against the

 revenue's appeal. In the appeal before the Tribunal, the revenue

 had raised two grounds, one with respect to the relief granted to

 the assessee by the First Appellate Authority with reference to

 the amounts withdrawn by the assessee from different accounts

 maintained and operated by him. This issue was remanded to the

 Assessing Officer for consideration and we find no question of

 law arising from the same. The next issue urged by the revenue

 was with respect to the difference in the value of immovable

 properties based on the valuation of the District Valuation

 Officer, in excess of that shown in the registered deed. We have,

 on the date of hearing, rejected the appeal by the revenue

 against the said ground for reason of it being below the limit

 prescribed under the litigation policy. What remains is the

 assessee's appeal for the assessment year 2005-06. 3. The only question arising from the above order

 is as to:- 4. The entire assessment arises from an alleged

 scam, in which the assessee is said to have been involved. The

 assessee was the proprietor of two concerns supplying materials

 to the Bihar Government in its various Departments. In the year

 2004, 6 districts of Bihar were badly affected by floods and

 there was a massive flood relief work initiated by the State

 Government in conjunction with the Central Government.

 Tenders were apparently invited and received and the successful

 bidder was the Bihar State Small Scale Industries Corporation

 Ltd., Indra Bhawan Patna, a State Government undertaking. The

 flood relief work was immediately commenced by the District

 Magistrate, Patna, designated as the Nodal Officer with the

 Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India acting as the

 Nodal Agency. The State Government was overseeing the relief

 work through the Disaster Management Department, headed by

 the Commissioner, Patna, under the direct supervision of the

 Chief Secretary, Bihar. Funds were released and relief material

 were said to have been supplied, both by air and road. 5. Later, a scam came to light in which funds to

 the extent of Rs.17.80 crores released by the State Government
 Patna High Court MA No.507 of 2015 dt.16-02-2024 4/7 between 12.07.2004 to 06.08.2004 was siphoned off to a

 fraudulent firm with the abbreviation 'BSSSI' which stands for

 Baba Satya Sai Enterprises; akin to the short form of Bihar State

 Small Scale Industries Corporation Ltd.; in the name of Sanjeev

 Kumar, a fictitious person. On inquiry, it was revealed that the

 accounts in the name of the fraudulent firm was operated by the

 assessee; established through forensic reports of hand writing

 experts and statement on oath by the Branch Manager of the

 Bank. Funds were transferred from this account to several other

 accounts of the assessee and his family members and associates

 aggregating to Rs.1678.45 lakhs. FIRs were lodged against the

 District Magistrate, Patna the Computer Operator and the

 assessee; the first of whom expired in the course of the

 proceedings. 6. The assessment made against the assessee was

 of the entirety of the amounts diverted from the amounts

 sanctioned by the State Government. The assessee's contention

 itself was that he had supplied the material far in excess of that

 received and he has to receive Rs.1317.09 lakhs from the State

 Government. The assessee also asserted that he has supplied

 relief material to the extent of Rs.3097.09 lakhs and for

 realization of the balance amounts, he has filed Title Suit of
 Patna High Court MA No.507 of 2015 dt.16-02-2024 5/7 5743 of 2014 in the Court of First Sub-Ordinate Judge, Patna. 7. The learned counsel for the appellant-assessee

 Sri. D.V. Pathy, specifically relied on the judgment of the

 learned Single Judge in Civil Miscellaneous Jurisdiction Case

 No.1107 of 2023, wherein an expeditious consideration of the

 suit was directed. Learned Standing Counsel for the

 Department, however, asserted that there was no substantiation

 of the purchases made of relief materials and in such

 circumstances, the entire income has to be assessed in the hands

 of the assessee. The fact that the assessee received the amounts

 by way of a fraud, would not deviate from the liability of

 income tax as against the money's received in the hands of the

 assessee, which is income assessable to tax. The Department

 also relied on Indraprastha Agencies v. Commissioner of

 Income Tax reported in (2004) 266 ITR 320. 8. We have to immediately notice that though the

 amounts were siphoned off and deposited in an account of a

 fictitious firm, registered in the name of a fictitious person, the

 assessee admits to have utilized the said amounts in supplying

 relief material. There is also evidence to substantiate the

 operation of the accounts by the assessee. Hence, as held by the

 Tribunal, the assessee cannot wriggle out of the liability unless
 Patna High Court MA No.507 of 2015 dt.16-02-2024 6/7 the purchases and the money spent on relief material is

 substantiated, failing which the assessee would have to be taxed

 for the entire money's received in the accounts. 9. We do not think that there is any reason to keep

 the matter pending till the suit is disposed off. As has been

 rightly noticed by the Tribunal, neither would the findings of the

 Assessment Officer have a bearing on the disposal of the suit

 nor would the findings in the suit have a bearing on the

 assessment to be carried out. The assessee has not produced any

 material before the Assessing Officer to substantiate the

 purchases made by him, from the amounts disbursed by the

 State Government for the purpose of providing flood relief. The

 Tribunal has categorically noticed that no evidence was led by

 the assessee before the Assessing Officer. 10. A contention was raised based on Section 50 of

 the Disaster Management Act, 2005, but no certificate of

 utilization was produced by the assessee. The supply of relief

 material was the responsibility of the Corporation and if at all,

 the utilization certificate is obtained, it can only be by the

 Corporation. The assessee had no privity of contract either with

 the State or the Corporation to supply relief material and there is

 no question of a utilization certificate issued under the Disaster
 Patna High Court MA No.507 of 2015 dt.16-02-2024 7/7 Management Act coming to the rescue of the assessee. 11. We find absolutely no question of law arising

 in the case and the question framed is one on facts and not on

 law. The appeal against the order of the Tribunal, in the second

 appeal filed by the assessee, would stand rejected. 12. Ordered accordingly. (K. Vinod Chandran, CJ)

 Rajiv Roy, J. I agree. (Rajiv Roy, J)

sharun/-