CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUBHASH CHAND ------ For the Petitioner : Mr. Kamdeo Pandey, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Shailendra Kumar Tiwari, Spl. P.P.
 For the Informant : Mr. Rajeeva Sharma, Sr. Advocate -------- 03/17.01.2022 Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned A.P.P. for
 the State as well as learned senior counsel for the informant. This bail application has been filed on behalf of the
 applicant- Abhay Kumar Yadav @ Abhay Kumar with prayer to release on
 bail in connection with Jamua P.S. Case No. 175 of 2021 registered under
 Sections 341, 323, 452, 354, 354(B), 354(C), 506, 509, 120(B) read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 , 67A of Information
 Technology Act, pending in the court of learned District & Additional
 Sessions Judge-II Cum Special Judge, Cyber Crime, Giridih. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that the
 F.I.R. of this case was lodged by the victim herself against four named
 accused persons including the applicant and three unknown persons with
 the allegations that all the accused persons who were stalking her, all of
 them caught hold of her breast and also dragged her 'saree' in order to
 outrage her modesty. The two persons also prepared video with their
 mobile phones and threatened to make it viral. It is also submitted that
 similarly situated co-accused, namely, Rahul Kumar @ Rahul Yadav has
 been granted bail by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court passed in B.A. No.
 14268 of 2021 vide order dated 22.12.2021. It is also submitted that the
 role of the applicant is identical and he has been languishing in jail since
 19.06.2021. Learned A.P.P. appearing on behalf of the State and learned
 senior counsel for the informant vehemently opposed the contentions
 made by the learned counsel for the applicant and contended that as per
 evidence in the case diary, the applicant has been assigned specific role
 of preparing the obscene video of the informant-victim and the mobile
 phone was recovered from his possession, by which, he had also
 transmitted the obscene video of victim to other mobile phones. In view of the submissions made and materials on record,
 the bail application of the applicant is hereby allowed. Let the applicant
 be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.20,000/-(Rupees Twenty
 Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount to the satisfaction of the
 court of learned District & Additional Sessions Judge-II Cum Special
 Judge, Cyber Crime, Giridih in aforesaid case. (Subhash Chand, J.)
Madhav/-