3. The appellants had short paid the duty involved by inadvertence; no penalty could be imposed in the absence of deliberate defiance of law. They relied on the judgment of the apex court in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. vs State of Orissa [ 1978 (2) ELT J (159) (SC), among several case laws cited in support. 3.1 We also heard the ld.D.R. who submits that undisputedly, the appellants had removed credit availed inputs without reversing an amount equal to the credit availed. They were removed under Rule 3(5) of CCR. The demand of credit was made under Rule 14 read with Sec.11A and the interest in terms of Sec.11AB of the Act. He submits that the penalty imposed under Rule 15(2) of CCR read with Sec.11AC of the Act was in accordance with law. He submits that the impugned order deserves to be sustained. 4. We have carefully perused the case records and considered the rival submissions. We find that in the instant case, the appellants imported electronic components required for the manufacture of PCBs for manufacture of C.T.Vs. On import of such components, the assessee had taken the credit of CVD and SAD paid in their CENVAT account. During the material period they removed such inputs for getting the PCBs manufactured for further manufacture of C.T.Vs. We find that the appellants had short reversed the impugned credit and the same remained in their CENVAT account. They reversed the same before issue of the show-cause notice. Had the amount been correctly reversed, the job worker could have taken credit of it to pay duty on PCBs; the duty paid on PCBs was available to appellants as credit. Therefore, we find that the appellants had not short reversed the impugned credit with an intention to evade payment of appropriate duty on CTVs. Therefore, demand of duty invoking larger period would be barred by limitation. In such a case demand of interest and penalty would not be sustainable. The case laws cited by the assessee have decided similar disputes in favour of the assessee. The assessee had not utilized the credit short reversed; it did not incur liability to pay interest. 4.1. From the impugned order, we find that the demand of credit to the tune of Rs. 2,12,40,288/- has been confirmed under Rule 14 of CCR; penalty has been imposed under Rule 15(2) of CCR read with Sec.11AC of the Act. Rules 14 and 15 of CCR are reproduced hereunder: (Pronounced in court)

P.Karthikeyan
 Member(Technical)
P.G.Chacko
Member(Judicial)

pv 9