SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A certain Kaashiv Infotech.
DATE: 2020-09-15
SCORE: 24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/it4ruo/a_certain_kaashiv_infotech/

--- POST TEXT ---

FYI this is a throwaway account. 

Many of you peeps in this sub are aware of the scumbag practices of Byju's and it's subsidiary Whitehack Jr. Even user u/whitehacksr has posted many posts about it. 

Today i want to let you guys know about this certain small company i went to, last year for "programming courses" in Tamil Nadu. 

The founder "Venkatesan Prabhu" is apparently a 10 time Microsoft MVP winner. Nothing fishy right?

Now i've heard about this MVP(Most Valued Professional) title but his name doesn't show up in the query in the link(i edited the link a bit because this is a selftext post.)
(https: mvp.microsoft com/en-us/).

He claims to have worked in Microsoft Australia with his wife but i can't check his background. I don't trust his linkedin profile. His entire family runs this show. 

I joined his cramped crowded suffocating office to learn programming languages 2-3 years ago, paid 6k and finished it in a span of 4months. 
The students who join here are from various other southern states and some from northern states some even from abroad(idk how this dude does his advert). 

Search for inplant training and google just plasters his company and his site on the entire first page with a ridiculous amount of mandatory 5 star reviews. Yes they coerce you to type a 5 star review and give a compulsory video review. If you refuse, no certificate for you lol. 

You don't sign on any receipt/application form with any rules. Just pay and take a seat and listen to their real time "company policy". 

Not only that your review should contain your real name, which college you're from and what courses you've completed in detail.

Even though there are a handful dozen number of "staff" who are assigned to teach you, they're clueless. Doubts.on Machine learning? Virtual function in C++? Entire Java? Well good luck. You'll have to stare at paragraphs of notes on presentation slides in a "custom buggy application" typed by the staff referring some old pile of dated materials or from stack exchange. 

The advertised practical learning, learn a language within 30hrs is defenestrated. Did you reach there in time? Well wait for an hour tilk you get drenched in sweat to get a PC. 

They'll nag you constantly to register to their website, subscribe to their YT channels, follow their Insta and FB, fees are not refundable and are to be paid on day one ASAP. 

The constant buzzwords you hear are "cloud computing, Big Data, A.I" and what not, only to gain very little knowledge by staring at the materials he created which you could've come across online. 

Finished learning programming languages? Now copy paste templates and codes to create a working DBMS server and a login page or create a website. How are materials OP? They teach you the ABCs and not the grammar(if you catch my drift) and even the materials have mistakes. 

Are you tryna bust your ass into IT companies like infosys? Zoho? TCS? You know all those sweatshops. Well here are these question and answers they'll ask you in your interviews, eat em and puke em. 

Venkat has various dubious claims and one of them is that he had hacked Anna University servers and changed the marks for his friends to get outstanding marks back in his day. 

He has this advice "to not teach or share whatever you're learning here to your friends, they'll stomp you and never look back" the rest of the alarmist speech you can figure it out. 

Now for those who don't get a job, in his words "Come and work here, why should you waste your time when you can be valuable here. I'll give you reasonable pay." If this doesn't stink more than a skunk's fart then idk what else. The staff members working there are the victims of those words. 

Majority of the students who join here don't do a background check. Words like "Microsoft MVP", "Award winner", "World record setter" are enough to change this office into a honeypot. Oh he's a lawyer now too. 

He even offers internships BUT YOU GOTTA PAY FOR IT lol and that's where most of the crowd comes for, for the internship certificate that they've worked for and paid to a Microsoft MVP who's name doesn't show up in the official website. 

This place is just no more than a massive big ass ponzi scheme factory and his staff members just follow him like a cult. His R&amp;D room is literally a kitchen. 

I was forced to give a 5 star review after my course got over but immediately changed it when i got out of the office. It got deleted the day later. 

Now i got no bad blood with the staff or the head. The staff is friendly but Venkatesan Prabhu is a charismatic douchebag. 

Just wanted to put this here after reading about Byju's and saw similarities with the practices but this one is aimed at engineering college graduates. Private companies and institutions like these should rot in purgatory for exploiting students. 

Kaashiv Infotech has 6,500-ish Google reviews most of em are 5 stars, their in-site review page has 99k reviews all of em 5stars. Of course. 

Here's a 🍪 for reading my wall of text.