SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Weird job Scam at Mumbai local stations 
DATE: 2024-11-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1gzq17y/weird_job_scam_at_mumbai_local_stations/

--- POST TEXT ---

So a few years back when I was an undergraduate first year student in Mumbai, I encountered a job Scam. Actually that's not entirely true. I am trying to determine if it was a scam or not. 

So I was walking back home from the railway station and a guy was handing out small card size pamphlets. It said upto 15,000/- month writing job, no experience required. So, I thought why not, and went to the nearby office address given on the pamphlet. The office lady explained the job was, you will have to write assignments for Masters and PhD students. You will be given a printed book with highlighted parts or some other printed material. It would be often more 80-100 pages. You had to take the printed material and write it down word to word using pen and paper. For every every weeks work you would be given 3000 to 4000 depending on the number of pages you wrote. But for every grammatical, punctuation or spelling mistake you make a certain amount would be deducted from your payout. If the number of mistakes exceeded a certain threshold which was around 50 if I remember correctly, you would not be paid. If you would miss the deadline then you would not be paid. There were also limts on mistakes per page, like if it was more than 3, page had to rewritten. It was to be written on the pages given by then and it had fit in the given number of sheets by them. You could take all this material home and bring it back after writing.

You had to pay a fee of 1500 upfront to 'register' for the job. I paid it and took the given printed material. Some sort of old novel or book in a very bad condition. It was around 100 pages. I started writing but never actually finished as midway I thought it was probably too stupid and was probably a scam. I laughed it away and forgot about it.

The reason I am posting this is because I want to find out if anyone has encountered such a situation. Are you aware of any such businesses that actually exist and if such a service is real who actually benefits? Like what possible use would someone have for hand written copies of some printed text? 
My best guess is that students trying to submit assignments need it hand written and paying someone to copy plagiarized content.

Again my memory is hazy and I am not sure if I remember all the details. Maybe I am forgetting something crucial and my brain is hallucinating, misinterpretating what transpired. 

Apologies for such a bad post. It's just an itch I just can't make sense of. Any way to step by step and structurally interpret my thoughts would be very appreciated. 

Apologies again.