Dear Sir/s My humble request is not to disclose my identity. surely i will be killed. sir pls organise a detailed inquiry on the nature of business of Achievers Agri India Pvt Limited., head quatered at Salem. this company has got nearly 15 branches across tamilnadu and karnataka. their primary business is collecting money on daily or weekly or monthly basis and refund the same after 15 months or so. once again the maturity is not taxed since they state that that is an agri income. they dont have anything to do with Agriculture or land development. they openly say that they collect money and invest into new business and they will repay out of profits. they got 7 to 8 companies registered but one or two is just starting up . they are not making any profit. even they are not even in the business mode. the company is not registered as NBFC. and  Anti Money  laundering is fully functioning. with no projects active with no income comming the company is simply rotating crores and crores of money monthly. the monthly collection averages around 1.5 crores. surely there in no fore sight with the MD of the company nor he doesnt have any professional guidance. the balance sheets are clear as the auditor is good. Pls Take necessary steps  to protect thousands of labours  who are investing their hard earned money. pls look into the following. 1. they say they develop barren lands using the funds- but where are they. are they duely registered. 2. do the company have enough reserve (not in papers) to pay the funda back. 3. what kimnd of business is that. 4. do they have group of companies functioning. 5. the tile of those company in question. 6. how come  authorities never doubted the company. 7. can any one cheat just like this. as already 4 to 5 companies are on the field. if nothing is done to streamline this the poor will see one more Finance scam in tamilnadu. pls dont go by the records pls conduct a thorough investigation. the address is. Achievers Agri India Pvt Ltd., Second Floor, Subam Towers, Meyyanoor Road, Near Five Roads , Salem. Tamilnadu. Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (2)