Accused No.1 in Special C.C. No. 558/2015 on the

file of XXI Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge and

Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Bangalore, has

preferred this revision petition challenging the order dated

13.4.2015 rejecting his application filed under Section 227

read with Section 239 Cr.P.C. 2. The events leading up to this revision petition are

as follows : 3. Then with regard to term loan of Rs.200 Lakhs

and cash credit of Rs.100 Lakhs, sanctioned to accused

No.2 firm for purchasing machineries, the allegation is that

accused No.2 purchased second hand machines and

accused Nos. 3 and 4 created the bogus vouchers. The

accused No.1 accepted these bogus vouchers without

verifying the same. Further, with respect to margin money

payable by accused Nos. 3 and 4, the allegation is that

they did not deposit the margin money in the bank;

instead they created bogus voucher to show that an

amount of Rs.59,04,510/- was paid to M/s V.Tech

Engineering Enterprises. Accused No.1 accepted these

bogus vouchers to avoid payment of margin money to the

bank. He also did not verify the genuineness and

authenticity of the said vouchers and thus facilitated

accused No.3 and accused No.4 to avail the term loan. 7 Apart from above, there are also allegations that accused

No.1 handed over three demand drafts to another accused

Lakshman instead of paying the amount through RTGS to

the vendor of the machine, and it was found during

investigation the said money was misutilized; secondly

that when accused No.3 purchased property situate at

Hospital Road, Avenue Road Cross, Chickpet, Bengaluru,

he offered the said property as collateral security for

availing the loan on 10.8.2011. The said property was

evaluated at Rs.5 crore, but accused No.1 did not verify

the same and sanctioned term loan of Rs.2 crore and cash

credit of Rs.1 crore. The said property was in occupation

of tenants. Accused No.1 did not conduct spot inspection.

Therefore, it is alleged that accused No.1 conspired with

accused Nos. 3 to 6, and accepted fabricated and forged

documents, vouchers, inflated financial statements to help

them. 4. The Special Court has held that allegation made

against accused No.1 are substantiated, the statements of 8 the witnesses CWs 1, 5, 6, 10, 12, 14, 15, 21 to 25, 27,

28, 37, 38, 42 to 44 and CWs 64 and 96 and the

investigation officer has placed documentary proof also.

Therefore, there are sufficient materials to frame charge

against accused No.1. With regard to obtaining of sanction

to prosecute accused No.1, the Special Court has held that

accused No.1 retired from service on 31.10.2012, and

therefore sanction was not required. 5. Assailing the findings of the Special Court, the

learned counsel for petitioner argued that the Special

Court failed to notice that there were no prima facie

materials to frame charges against accused, that it ought

to have been noticed that the accused No.1 being branch

head of the bank exercised due diligence before opening of

bank account in the name of the business concern of the

accused and while sanctioning loan to them. The

allegations made against accused No.1 do not constitute

any offence. The charge sheet does not disclose as to how

the first accused is benefited and a demand by him for 9 gaining benefit by favouring the other accused. The

totality of the circumstances at best may indicate some

administrative lapses, but hardly they constitute any

offence. On this point, he placed reliance on two

judgments ( 1) Anil Kumar Bose vs State of Bihar [1974 SCC (Cri) 652] and (2) Rishipal Singh vs State

of U.P. and another [AIR 2014 SC 2567]. 6. The next point that the learned counsel argued

was with regard to sanction. According to him, the

retirement of the first accused did not absolve the

requirement of obtaining sanction from competent

authority before subjecting him to prosecution. Although

according to Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption

Act, there is no need to obtain sanction if a public servant

superannuates at the time of taking cognizance, Section

197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires sanction to

be obtained. In this case, no sanction order was obtained

even under Order 197 Cr.P.C . and therefore accused No.1

cannot be prosecuted. He should have been discharged 10 under this ground. He seeks to support his argument on

this point by placing reliance on the judgments of the

Supreme Court in ( 1) N.K.Ganguly vs CBI, New Delhi [( 2016) 2 SCC 143] (2) State of Punjab vs Labh

Singh [( 2014) 16 SCC 807 and (3) Kalicharan

Mahapatra vs State of Orissa [AIR 1998 SC 2595].

Therefore, it was his submission that the revision petition

requires to be allowed and accused No.1 discharged. 7. The learned counsel for the respondent argued

that the Special Court has not committed any error in

dismissing the application of the petitioner. According to

the learned counsel, the investigation has brought enough

evidence both in the form of oral and documentary to show

that the petitioner violated the guidelines of the bank in

opening the current account in the name of M/s Nikhara

Electronics and Allied Technics, that internal investigation

report and another inspection report highlight several

irregularities committed by the petitioner, that he violated

banking regulations and provisions relating to credit 11 manual while sanctioning credit and disbursing the amount

to the borrower, and that the materials collected by the

investigation officer indicate the petitioner's collusion with

the other accused. The statement of witnesses, if perused,

would show that the petitioner's involvement in

conspiracy. At the stage of framing charge, it is enough if

the court finds that there are sufficient materials to

proceed further in the matter by framing the charge and

there is no need to hold a mini trial. He further argued

that whenever an offence under section 13 (1)(e) is

alleged, it is not necessary that the public servant

concerned should derive benefit as a result of conspiring

with the other accused, it is enough that if he violates the

norms and rules for the benefit of others, charges can be

framed. Here in this case, the petitioner's conspiracy with

the other accused resulted in the latter being benefited

and therefore there are no grounds to entertain the

petition on this point. He placed reliance on the decisions

of the Supreme Court in R.Venkatakrishnan vs Central

Bureau of Investigation [( 2009) 11 SCC 737] 12 [(2009) 11 SCC 737], Mir Nagvi Askari vs Central

Bureau of Investigation [(2009) 15 SCC 643]

[(2009) 15 SCC 643] and State through CBI vs Dr.

Anup Kumar Srivastava (2017) 15 SCC 560. 7.1. With regard to sanction the learned counsel

argued that it is settled law now if a public servant has

retired by the time cognizance is to be taken, there is no

need to obtain sanction. Here also accused no. 1 has

retired from service. Section 197 Cr.P.C. is not applicable.

Since the petitioner is prosecuted for the offences

punishable in accordance with Prevention of Corruption Act and other IPC offences, Section 19 of Prevention of

Corruption Act is applicable and not Section 197 Cr.P.C. In

this view of the matter, obtaining of sanction to prosecute

the petitioner was not necessary. The learned counsel

placed reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Kalicharan Mahapatra Vs. State of Orissa AIR 1998

SC 2595. 8. After considering the arguments of the learned

counsel, with regard to the findings of the Special Court

that there are materials to frame charge against first

accused, it has to be stated that at the time of framing

charge what is required is to find out whether the evidence

collected by the investigation officer discloses sufficient

materials for framing the charge. Here in this case the

allegation against the first accused is that he conspired

with the other accused to facilitate them obtain financial

assistance from the bank and in this connection he floated

the guidelines and norms governing banking transactions.

Whenever conspiracy is alleged, it requires strict proof

because direct evidence to prove conspiracy is difficult to

be obtained. The circumstances surrounding the

transactions have to be assessed and evaluated to find out

whether there was conspiracy amongst the accused or not.

Apparently it may appear as if there were administrative

lapses and that the first accused discharged his duties

being the branch head of the bank. But there are

allegations against other accused also. In the statement of 14 the witnesses, it is found that the first accused simply

accepted some documents from other accused for

facilitating them to obtain loan from the bank. They have

stated that they all acted on the instructions given to them

by the first accused. In this context it may be useful to

place reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in

the case of R.Venkatakrishnan vs Central Bureau of

Investigation [(2009) 11 SCC 737]. In para 167 of the

said judgment it is held as below : - 9. In another case, i.e. Mir Nagvi Askari vs

Central Bureau of Investigation [(2009) 15 SCC 643]

the prosecution case was that accused nos.1, 2, 4 and 5

being officials of bank violated the departmental

instructions and allowed credit to the account of accused

no.3, a broker in securities. He illegally used the public

money for his personal use. All the accused were charged

for various offences including criminal conspiracy under Section 120B IPC. They were all convicted. When the

matter reached the Supreme Court it was held : - 16 Condition precedent for holding the accused
persons to be guilty of a charge of criminal
conspiracy must, therefore, be considered on 17 the anvil of the fact which must be established
 by the prosecution, viz., meeting of minds of
 two or more persons for doing or causing to be
 done an illegal act or an act by illegal means. 62. The courts, however, while drawing
 an inference from the materials brought on
 record to arrive at a finding as to whether the
 charges of the criminal conspiracy have been
 proved or not, must always bear in mind that a
 conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is
 difficult, if not impossible, to obtain direct
 evidence to establish the same. The manner
 and circumstances in which the offences have
 been committed and the accused persons took
 part are relevant. For the said purpose, it is
 necessary to prove that the propounders had
 expressly agreed to it or caused it to be done,
 and it may also be proved by adduction of
 circumstantial evidence and/ or by necessary
 implication. [See Mohammad Usman
 Mohammad Hussain Maniyar v. State of
 Maharashtra (1981) 2 SCC 443]". Therefore, accused no.1, alleged to be involved in

conspiracy, cannot, at the stage of framing charge, say 18 that materials do not exist to frame charge against him.

Evidence must be threadbare discussed. 10. But, the learned counsel for the petitioners

argued about administrative lapses which, according to

him do not constitute an offence. In Anilkumar Bose vs

State of Bihar [1974 SCC (Cri) 652], a case cited by

him, what is held is that a failure on the part of the

concerned employee to perform their duty or observe the

rules of procedure laid down in the Duty Chart in a proper

manner may be an administrative lapse on their part and

may be at the highest a case of error of judgment or

breach of performance of duty which per se, cannot be

equated with dishonest intention. Mens rea is one of the

essential ingredients of the offence of cheating under Section 420 IPC. In relation to very same ground, the

learned counsel has placed reliance on another authority of

the Supreme Court in Rishipal Singh vs State of U.P.

and Another [AIR 2014 SC 2567]. These aspects of

administrative lapses, it is to be stated, cannot be 19 considered at the time of framing charge. Unless the

witnesses are subjected to cross examination, no finding

can be given whether the omission in following the

procedure amounts to administrative lapse or was

deliberate. Therefore, this point of argument cannot be a

ground for discharging accused no.1. Therefore, given a

conclusion, it can be opined that the materials on record

are sufficient to frame against accused no.1, the findings

of the Special Court in this regard do not indicate non-

application of mind or, any infirmity or illegality in coming

to an opinion that accused no.1 cannot be discharged on

this ground. This finding needs to be sustained. 11. However, another finding regarding sanction

cannot be sustained. The special court has held that the

sanction is not necessary as accused no.1 has retired by

the time charge sheet was filed. But the argument of

petitioner's counsel is that sanction in accordance with Section 197 Cr.P.C is necessary. Before adverting to this

point, I think it necessary to opine that the offences triable 20 by Special Judge relate to time when an accused was in

service as a public servant. Sanction under Section 19 of

Prevention of Corruption Act is necessary to see that a

public servant is not entangled in a frivolous and false

case. Sanction insulates a public servant from a false or

vexatious or frivolous prosecution. Therefore a protection

available to a public servant while in service should also be

available after his retirement. It cannot be forgotten that

even after retirement , he is prosecuted for offences under Prevention Corruption Act . Indeed, the retirement

removes one from the garb of a public servant; but justice

requires that same protection should be available even

after one's retirement. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kalicharan Mahapatra vs. State of Orissa (AIR 1998

SC 2595) has referred to its earlier decision in R.Bala

Krishna Pillai Vs. State of Kerala [1996 (1) SCC 478]

where observation of Law commission has been extracted.

The same is extracted here under:- "12. It appears to us that protection
 under the section is needed as much after
 retirement of the public servant as before
 retirement. The protection afforded by the
 section would be rendered illusory if it were
 open to a private person harbouring a
 grievance to wait until the public servant
 ceased to hold his official position, and then to
 lodge a complaint. The ultimate justification for
 the protection conferred by Section 197 is the
 public interest in seeing that official acts do not
 lead to needless or vexatious prosecutions. It
 should be left to the Government to determine
 from that point of view the question of the
 expediency of prosecuting any public servant." 12. The view taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kalicharan Mahapatra (supra), is that the court can

take cognizance of the offence without any sanction if a

public servant retires by the time cognizance is taken.

Probably the present tense form of verb to be 'is' in Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act could be the

reason for this interpretation. But the learned counsel has 22 placed reliance on another authority of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in State of Punjab Vs. Labh Singh (supra) and N.K.Ganjuly (supra) to lay stress on the

point that sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C was

necessary for protecting accused no.1. 13. In Labh Singh (supra), it is held as below:- 14. In N.K.Ganguly (supra), the clear observation

of Supreme court is as follows :- The learned standing counsel for CBI submitted in so far as

offences under Indian Penal Code are concerned, they

cannot be said to have been committed in discharge of

official duty; sanction therefore is not necessary even

under Section 197 Cr.P.C. If the allegations levelled

against the first accused are seen, and particularly with

reference to conspiracy, it is to be stated at the stage of

framing charge, it is difficult to discern whether offences

can be connected to official capacity or not. Thorough trial

requires to be held. If facts in N.K.Ganguly (supra) are

seen, there also the accused were sought to be prosecuted

for the offences under Prevention of Corruption Act in

addition to some of the offences under Indian Penal Code .

Thus seen, the first accused should get the benefit of

discharge for absence of sanction under Section 197 of

CPC. Hence the following order:- C.C.558/2015 on the file of XXI Additional City
 and Civil Judge and Principal Special Judge for
 CBI cases is modified. The application filed
 under Section 227 read with 239 Cr.P.C. concerning accused No.1 is allowed. Accused
 No.1 is discharged of the offences he is sought
 to be prosecuted. Sd/- JUDGE

SHKJ: The learned counsel submits that this court has

come to the conclusion that the accused needs to be

discharged of the offences implicated against him for want 26 of sanction. For this reason it is necessary that the

prosecution be permitted to obtain sanction from the

competent authority and to resubmit the charge sheet

thereafter. In support of his argument he placed reliance

on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

of Nanjappa Vs. State of Karnataka [(2015) 14 SCC

186]. On the other hand the learned counsel for the

petitioner submits that the case of Nanjappa is not

applicable here because in that case the prosecution had

obtained sanction, but it was found to be invalid. For

these reasons liberty was accorded for obtaining fresh

sanction. Same is not the position here. He also refers to

the amendment brought to Prevention of Corruption Act .

He submits further that according to the amended

provisions sanction is necessary even if the public servant

is retired from service on the date cognizance is taken. After hearing both the sides it is to be stated that the

case of Nanjappa cannot be made applicable here. In the

said case prosecution had taken sanction, but it was not 27 proper and valid. Probably for these reasons, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed that in such a situation discharge

of accused would not come in the way of obtaining fresh

sanction for prosecuting the accused. The circumstances

are slightly different here. Because the petitioner had

retired from services on the date the cognizance was

taken, sanction was not obtained. Now a finding is given

that sanction was very much necessary. Even if the

amendment brought to the provisions of Prevention of

Corruption Act in the year 2018 are seen, it can be said

that sanction was necessary. The amendment has been

brought by 'substitution' and not 'insertion' of a new

provision. Therefore I am of the opinion that in these set

of circumstances liberty cannot be granted to the

prosecution to obtain sanction again for the purpose of

prosecuting the accused. Sd/- JUDGE

ckl/sd