This is a Petition filed by the Plaintiff under Section 34 of
the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 for setting aside the
Arbitral Award dated 16.11.2017 passed by the learned Sole
Arbitrator. 2. The Plaintiff "BPL Limited" had invoked the Arbitration
Agreement and preferred certain Claims against "Reach
Distributors (India) Private Limited" the Defendant. 3. The Brief facts leading to the case are as follows:- 4. Being aggrieved by the said Arbitral Award, the Plaintiff
has challenged the same on several grounds, which will be
discussed later in the body of the Judgment. 5. The Defendant has filed a detailed Statement of Objections
on 05.06.2018 and he prayed to dismiss the said application. 6. The records of the Arbitral Tribunal is secured. Further, the
Advocate for the Plaintiff also filed Paper Books in 4 Volumes. I
have heard the arguments of the Advocate for the Plaintiff and
the arguments of the Learned Senior Counsel Sri. Arvind
Kamath on behalf of the Defendant. The Advocate for the
Plaintiff has filed Written Arguments on 17.02.2021. The
Advocate for the Defendant has filed Written Arguments on
15.04.2021. 7. Based on the above contentions of both parties, following
Points arise for my consideration:- 8. My findings on the above points are as follows:- 9. Point No.1: - The Plaintiff has preferred a Claim
Petition before the Learned Arbitrator for the following reliefs:- (c) Directing the Respondent to bare and pay the entire
costs of the Arbitral proceedings, including all actual costs
borne by the Claimant, and (d) Pass such further and other Orders and / or directions
as this tribunal may deemed fit and proper in the facts and
circumstances of the case. 10. The Defendant has preferred Counter Claim before the
Learned Arbitrator. 11. The Learned Arbitrator has rejected the claims of the
Plaintiff and dismissed the Counter Claim of the Defendant in
the Impugned Award. It is to be noted that the Defendant has
not challenged the rejection of the Counter Claim. 12. The Plaintiff has challenged the said Impugned Award in
this proceeding. The Hon'ble High Court in the Judgment
dated 17.04.2021 in Com.A.P.No.25/2021 (Union of India
vs. M/s Warsaw Engineers) (which is relied on by the 9 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

Learned Advocate for the Plaintiff), has laid down certain
guidelines/principles about the writing of Judgments in a
Petition filed under Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation
Act. Keeping in my mind the said guidelines, I now propose to
examine each and every ground urged by the Plaintiff
specifically with reference to the submissions made by both
Advocates. 13. In order to appreciate the same, it is better to arrange
the only relevant documents produced by both parties with
reference to the contentions and evidence adduced by both
parties before the Learned Arbitrator, in a chronological
manner, with the findings of the Learned Arbitrator. 14. The first license is at Ex.P.2/R.1 dated 17.10.2008, and it
was replaced by Ex.P.3/R.2 dated 30.01.2009. Ex.R.3 is an
Email exchanged between the Claimant and Respondent dated
19.05.2009. Ex.R.4 is a copy of the Tax Invoice No. RTX/09-
10/97 dated 15.07.2009. Ex.R.6 is another E-mail
correspondence between Claimant's representative of the
Respondent dated 10.06.2010. The Learned Arbitrator has held
that as far as furnishing of sale figures on regular basis is
concerned, Annexure-C to the Ex.P.3 mentions that the basis for
license fee calculation shall be as per the audited sales figures 10 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

on monthly basis, that the material placed on record by both
the sides goes to indicate that the Defendant made several
payments in advance and the Plaintiff has also accepted the
said advance payments as could be seen from Ex.R.6. 15. Ex.R.5 is another E-mail correspondence between
Claimant's representative of the Respondent dated 11.10.2010.
The Learned Arbitrator has held that as far as the supply of
defective goods is concerned, it as coming in the evidence of
RW-1 that at the suggestion of the Chairman of the Claimant
Company, i.e., present Plaintiff, the Respondent/Defendant
agreed to receive the LCD TVs through BTVL and the said goods
were found to be defective and this was conveyed by the
Defendant to the Plaintiff as per Ex.R.5. 16. Ex.R.7 is another E-mail correspondence between
Claimant's representative of the Respondent dated 12.07.2011.
Ex.R.8 is another E-mail correspondence between Claimant's
representative of the Respondent dated 03.10.2011. The
Learned Arbitrator has held that Ex.R.7 & Ex.R.8 go to show that
the Defendant has submitted the quarterly review analysis to
the Plaintiff and festival planning performance, that in view of
the Plaintiff having not disputed these correspondence, it 11 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

cannot now complain that the Defendant did not submit the
sales turnover on a monthly basis. 17. It is to be noted that the Ex.P.3 Agreement was expired
on 30.01.2014. Next license agreement was entered into is the
Ex.P.4/R.10 dated 26.02.2015. Ex.R.9 is another E-mail
correspondence between Claimant's representative of the
Respondent dated 12.05.2015. 18. Ex.R.11 is another E-mail correspondence between
Claimant's representative of the Respondent dated 21.05.2015.
The Learned Arbitrator has held that in the light of the
pleadings and evidence on record, the parties shifted their
transaction to a different nature when the Plaintiff decided to
launch BPL Products on the portals of Flipkart, as could be seen
from Ex.R.11. 19. In Ex.P.8/R.15, the notice dated 23.03.2016, the license
granted under Ex.P.4 was terminated. 20. By considering all these facts, I now propose to answer
the grounds urged by the Plaintiff. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 21. The First ground is that the Impugned Award is
arbitrary, whimsical and wholly contrary to the facts and
evidence on record. 21.a. The Defendant has contended that the reasoning of
the learned arbitrator is issue-wise and with specific reference
to the evidence on record, that the learned Arbitrator has
further also referred to the law on the point, in light of rival
contentions and evidence, before arriving at the respective
findings. 21.b. This ground being a general ground, the same will be
discussed later, after discussing about all other specific
grounds. 22. The Second ground is that a bare reading of the
Impugned Award will establish that the Sole Arbitrator has
drawn up the Impugned Award in a casual manner superficially
dealing with the points in issue and merely on the basis of
random documents and stray sentences elicited from the notes
of evidence. 22.a. The Defendant has contended that the said ground is
merely jargon without making out any clear and categorical 13 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

grounds to impugn the award of the learned arbitrator, that the
Plaintiff has miserably failed to establish as to how the award is
contrary to public policy in accordance with law. 22.b. In fact, this ground is in the nature of a ground to be
urged in an appeal. The position in law is well settled that this
court while exercising power under Section 34 of the Act does
not sit as a court of appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is summary in nature as held in the
decision reported in (2019) - S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 =
(2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462 ( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M.
Shashikala ). Hence, this ground is not available for the
Plaintiff under Sub-section (2) and Sub-section (2-A) of Section
34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge
flanked by the Plaintiff calling for the setting aside of arbitral
award on this ground is thwarted and rejected. 23. The Third ground is that the Learned Arbitrator has
erred in concluding that the Defendant did not commit any
default of its several obligations under the Trademarks License
Agreements including payment of the monthly license fee on a
monthly basis, for furnishing audited sales reports on a monthly
basis etc., 14 Com.A.S.No.35/2018 23.a. The Defendant has contended that the Plaintiff has
made a blanket statement impugning the finding without
providing specifics as to how the same is contrary to law, that
the issue regarding payment of license fee has been elaborately
dealt at Para No. 60 to 82 of the Award, by referring Ex.R.36/
Certified Statement of Chartered Accountant regarding payment
of License fee made by the Defendant to hold that the
Defendant has paid a sum of Rs. 4,50,04,499/- to the Plaintiff
towards license fee, that by referring Ex.R.16 & 17/ Statement
of Accounts to hold that the same have not been disputed by
the Plaintiff, that the Defendant had in fact submitted quarterly
sales reports as per Ex.R.7 & 8, that the Learned Arbitrator
interpreted the terms of Ex.P.3 & 4 to decide the said issue and
after appreciating the contention of the Defendant that the
parties had by mutual agreement, adopted a different method
of payment of license fee, whereby the Defendant would make
payments on ad-hoc basis at the request of the Plaintiff and
held that Ex.R-6 & R.24/ E-mail communications between the
parties and by referring Section 28 (3) of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, by looking into the trade practice between the
parties for the purpose of ascertaining the conduct of the
parties about oral agreement in addition to the written
agreement, that at Para No. 70 it is held that the Defendant has
established that the Plaintiff did not insists on payment of 15 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

license fee on a monthly basis and that the parties gave a go-
bye to the same. 23.b. The Tribunal dealt with the liability of payment of
license fees under each of the Agreement. In that, the Tribunal
held, that under the First Agreement, as admitted at Paragraph
No.7 of the Claim Statement, the said Agreement did not
contain the required terms and hence the Second Agreement
was executed and therefore the terms of the First Agreement
need not be gone into. 23.c. The Arbitral Tribunal considered whether there was
any balance license fee payable under the Second Agreement
dated 30.01.2019 till its expiry on 30.01.2014. On appreciating
the evidence on record, the Tribunal held that the total fees
paid by the Defendant is Rs. 4,50,04,499/- leaving a balance of
Rs. 66,61,208.52. It was further held that since the Arbitration
Notice was issued on 23.03.2016, taking into consideration Section 21 of the Act, all claims made for the period three years
prior thereto are barred by limitation. Reckoning the balance
amount payable from 26.03.2016 (being the date of Notice of
Arbitration) till 30.01.2014 (being the expiry of the Second
Agreement), the Arbitral Tribunal held that the total
outstanding, including interest at 18% per annum is Rs. Com.A.S.No.35/2018

1,23,35,638.50. It was held that since the Defendant has
already paid Rs. 4,50,04,499/-, there is no question of any
balance fee or unpaid interest. 23.d. It was held that with respect to license fee payable
after the expiry of the Second Agreement on 30.01.2014 till the
execution of the Third Agreement on 26.02.2015, there was no
subsisting Agreement and hence, there being no arbitration
agreement, as such, the claims for the said period cannot be
adjudicated, as regards the Third Agreement, the Arbitral
Tribunal accepted the contention of the Defendant that under
the said Agreement, there is no provision for payment of license
fees and that the parties shifted to the trading model from the
license fee model as evidenced from the terms of the said
Agreement. As such it was held that under the Third
Agreement, no license fee was payable by the Defendant.
Hence the claim of the Plaintiff was rejected on these grounds. 23.e. As discussed by me earlier, by referring various
documents, more particularly, Ex.R.7 & Ex.R.8, the Learned
Arbitrator has held that since the Plaintiff has not disputed the
said correspondence, it cannot now complain that the
Defendant did not submit the sales turnover on a monthly
basis. The said finding of the Learned Arbitrator is not contrary 17 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

to the conduct and contentions of the parties in the e-mail
exchanged between the parties and hence, it is not contrary to
public policy. There is no patent illegality or perversity in the
impugned award. Hence, this ground is not available for the
Plaintiff under Sub-section (2) and Sub-section (2-A) of Section
34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act. Hence, the challenge
flanked by the Plaintiff calling for the setting aside of arbitral
award on this ground is thwarted and rejected. 24. The Fourth ground is that the Learned Arbitrator has
erred in concluding that the Defendant was not liable to provide
after sales support services and spare parts in respect of the
goods sold by the Defendant. 24.a. The Defendant has contended that the learned
Arbitrator has answered at Para No. 91 & 92 to hold that as per
Clause 12.1 of Ex.P.3, it is BTVL or any other nominee of the
Plaintiff which is required to provide after sales service and that
plain reading of the agreements would disclose that there was
no obligation on the Defendant to provide after sale service,
that admittedly the Defendant agreed to provide after sale
services, which was being done by the Defendant from
30.01.2009 being the date of execution of Ex.P.3 and that the
terms of the agreement and understanding between the parties 18 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

stood modified on account of the conduct of the parties, that
Ex.P.4 does not make provision for payment of after sales
services by the Defendant, on the other hand Clause 9 of Ex.P.4
makes it clear that BTVL or its nominee is responsible for
providing after sales support, and provision for spare parts, that
from the terms of agreement it cannot be said that the
Defendant was obligated to provide after sale services. 24.b. The learned Advocate for the Defendant has argued
that the learned Arbitrator held that Clause 12.1 casts an
obligation on BTVL to provide after sales service and not on the
Defendant and hence there can be no breach where there is no
obligation, that the learned Arbitrator has held that the Third
Agreement does not speak of any after sales service and as per
Clause 9 there of, BTVL or its nominee shall provide the license,
that as regards warranty, the Third Agreement specifically
provides that the warranty concludes on expiry of the
Agreement which is on 23.03.2017, and in view of the fact that
the Plaintiff terminated the Agreement on 23.03.2016, there is
no obligation to provide any warranty after termination. 24.c. The said arguments of the Learned Advocate for the
Defendant cannot be ruled out after referring the Arbitral
Records and the findings of the Learned Arbitrator in the 19 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

impugned award. In fact, this ground is in the nature of a
ground to be urged in an appeal. The position in law is well
settled that this court while exercising power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a court of appeal. The nature of
proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is summary in nature
as held in the decision reported in (2019) - S.C.C. Online -
S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462 ( Canara Nidhi
Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this ground is not
available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2) and Sub-section
(2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act. Thus,
the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff calling for the setting
aside of arbitral award on this ground is thwarted and rejected. 25. The Fifth ground is that the Learned Arbitrator has
erred in concluding that the Defendant was not liable to
indemnify the Plaintiff from claims that may arise on account of
defective goods sold by the Defendant. 25.a. The Defendant has contended that the Clause
providing for a limited warranty which expires on 23.03.2017
being one year from the termination of Ex.P.4, which as per the
case of the Plaintiff was terminated by Notice dated
23.03.2016, that the warranty Clause also having lapsed and
the Defendant is not obliged to provide warranty. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 25.b. The finding in respect of the said aspect is not
attacked by the Plaintiff that the same is contrary to public
policy or that the same is a patent illegality. In fact, this ground
is in the nature of a ground to be urged in an appeal. The
position in law is well settled that this court while exercising
power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a court of
appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is
summary in nature as held in the decision reported in (2019) -
S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462
( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this
ground is not available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2)
and Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration &
Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff
calling for the setting aside of arbitral award on this ground is
thwarted and rejected. 26. The Sixth Ground is that the Learned Arbitrator has
erred in concluding that the Defendant was not liable to
compensate the Plaintiff for infringement of its registered
Trademark by affixing the same on products sold by the
Defendant even during the period when the Defendant was not
licensed by the Plaintiff to use its Trademarks. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 26.a. The Defendant has contended that at Para No. 83 to
92 of the Award it is held that there was no provision for
payment of licence fees on and from the execution of Ex.P.4
since the parties had changed the licence fee model to a
trading model after the Plaintiff began listing its products on
Flipkart, that there is no question of the Defendant
compensating the Plaintiff in this regard. 26.b. The finding in respect of the said aspect is not
attacked by the Plaintiff that the same is contrary to public
policy or that the same is a patent illegality. In fact, this ground
is in the nature of a ground to be urged in an appeal. The
position in law is well settled that this court while exercising
power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a court of
appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is
summary in nature as held in the decision reported in (2019) -
S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462
( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this
ground is not available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2)
and Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration &
Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff
calling for the setting aside of arbitral award on this ground is
thwarted and rejected. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 27. The Seventh ground is that the Learned Arbitrator
has erred in concluding that a portion of the Plaintiff claims is
barred by limitation. 27.a. The learned Advocate for the Plaintiff has argued that Section 19 of the Limitation Act stipulates that afresh period of
limitation is to be computed from the date of receipt of
payment on account of any debt, that undisputed the
Defendant did not pay the license fee under the licensee
agreement but made intermittent ad-hoc payments, that the
Plaintiff maintained a running account and adjusted all such
payments towards the earliest amount owed by the Defendant. 27.b. The Defendant has contended that the learned
arbitrator has arrived at the said finding after taking into
consideration of the date of cause of action in respect of the
relief claimed to hold that all claims relating to the period prior
to 3 years from the date of reference of the disputes to
arbitration in terms of Section 21 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, are barred by limitation at Para No. 95 & 96. 27.c. On scrutiny of the findings of the Learned Arbitrator in
respect of the issue of limitation, the same cannot be
considered as perverse. Further, the finding in respect of the 23 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

said aspect is not attacked by the Plaintiff that the same is
contrary to public policy or that the same is a patent illegality.
In fact, this ground is in the nature of a ground to be urged in an
appeal. The position in law is well settled that this court while
exercising power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a
court of appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of
the Act is summary in nature as held in the decision reported in
(2019) - S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. -
462 ( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this
ground is not available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2)
and Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration &
Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff
calling for the setting aside of arbitral award on this ground is
thwarted and rejected. 28. The Eighth ground is that the Learned Arbitrator has
erred in consideration an infringement of a Trademark as 'use
in a vaccum period', that the law does not provide for any
vaccum period and any unauthorised use of a registered
trademark is an infringement meriting prosecution and liability
to pay compensation, that the learned arbitrator has erred in
granting prayers (c) and (d) of the counter-claim in favour of the
Defendant. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 28.a. The Defendant has contended that the learned
arbitrator has not arrived at any conclusion regarding the
infringement of the trademark as alleged by the Plaintiff, that
the reference to the vaccum period was with respect to the fact
that there was no agreement is existence from 31.01.2014 till
26.02.2015 and there was no agreement, much less an
arbitration agreement granting mandate to the learned
arbitrator to adjudicate on dispute, that in the absence on any
agreement , the learned arbitrator has no power to adjudicate
any claims pertaining to the said period. 28.b. The learned Advocate for the Plaintiff has argued that Section 29 and 102 of the Trademarks Act, 1999, stipulate that
the use of a registered Trademark by a person not authorised by
its owner to so use, amounts to an offence, that nowhere does
the Trademarks Act , or any other law relating to intellectual
property rights contemplate the use of a Trademark or any
other intellectual property within a 'vacuum period' without the
authority of the owner of such Trademark or intellectual
property. He draws my attention to Para No. 90 of the Award,
wherein the learned Arbitrator has held that though the
Defendant used the Plaintiff's Trademark during the period
between 30.01.2014 and 24.02.2015, there was no agreement
in existence and that this period was a vacuum period and the 25 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

Defendant does not have to pay any licence fee for the use of
the Plaintiff's Trademarks during such a vacuum period. 28.c. The learned Advocate for the Defendant has argued
that the learned Arbitrator has held that from the expiry of the
Second Agreement on 30.01.2014 till the execution of the Third
Agreement on 25.02.2015, there is vacuum period without any
agreement, that as per the Third Agreement, there is no
provision for payment of license fee as it existed in the Second
Agreement, that there was no royalty model under the Third
Agreement as it were for the Second Agreement, and hence the
question of providing royalty for the use of the Trademark of the
Plaintiff was held by the learned Arbitrator to be unsustainable.
He has further argued that based on the terms of the
Agreement between the parties, the Trademark practice
followed, the documentary and oral evidence the learned
Arbitrator dismissed the Claims of the Plaintiff attributing
appropriate reasons. 28.d. The finding in respect of the said aspect is not
attacked by the Plaintiff that the same is contrary to public
policy or that the same is a patent illegality. In fact, this ground
is in the nature of a ground to be urged in an appeal. The
position in law is well settled that this court while exercising 26 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a court of
appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is
summary in nature as held in the decision reported in (2019) -
S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462
( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this
ground is not available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2)
and Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration &
Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff
calling for the setting aside of arbitral award on this ground is
thwarted and rejected. 29. The Ninth ground is that the Impugned Award is bad
in law and untenable as the learned Arbitrator has based his
conclusions on suppositions contrary to settled rules of
evidence. 29.a. The Defendant has contended that the learned
arbitrator has arrived at findings, after thorough examination of
the evidence on record, and the law applicable to the facts and
circumstances, that he has dealt with each of the contentions
and issues of the parties and has provided unambiguous
reasons in support of the findings. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 29.b. It is to be noted that the Plaintiff has neither pleaded
nor established that the award is in conflict with public policy of
India or it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of
Indian law or it is conflict with the most basic notions of
morality for justice. The learned Advocate for the Defendant has
argued that the Plaintiff has treated the challenge to the award
as an appeal. He has drawn my attention to the cause title,
wherein the Plaintiff is shown as 'Appellant' and the Defendant
is shown as 'Respondent', that this Petition is filed as an appeal
under Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act. He has
argued that all the grounds stated in Para No. 5 of the Petition
are in the tenor of appeal and that by an in correct
understanding of the scope of Section 34 , the Plaintiff has
converted the challenge to the award into an appeal by
questioning the various factual finding and conclusions on
merits and such understanding of the Plaintiff is contrary to law
and the challenge to the award is beyond the permissible
scope. 29.c. The finding in respect of the said aspect is not
attacked by the Plaintiff that the same is contrary to public
policy or that the same is a patent illegality. In fact, this ground
is in the nature of a ground to be urged in an appeal. The
position in law is well settled that this court while exercising 28 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

power under Section 34 of the Act does not sit as a court of
appeal. The nature of proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is
summary in nature as held in the decision reported in (2019) -
S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 1244 = (2019) 9 - S.C.C. - 462
( Canara Nidhi Limited vs. M. Shashikala ). Hence, this
ground is not available for the Plaintiff under Sub-section (2)
and Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the Arbitration &
Conciliation Act. Thus, the challenge flanked by the Plaintiff
calling for the setting aside of arbitral award on this ground is
thwarted and rejected. 30. The scope of this court is limited with regard to Section 34 of the Act. The position of law stands crystallized
today, that findings, of fact as well as of law, of the
arbitrator/arbitral tribunal are ordinarily not amenable to
interference under Section 34 of the Act. The scope of
interference is only where the finding of the tribunal is either
contrary to the terms of the contract between the parties, or, ex
facie, perverse, that interference, by this court, is absolutely
necessary. The arbitrator is the final arbiter on facts as well as
in law, and even errors, factual or legal, which stop short of
perversity, do not merit interference under Section 34 of the
Act. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the decision reported in 29 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

2015 - S.C.C. OnLine - Del - 13192 (P.C.L. Suncon (JV) vs.
NHAI), in Paragraph No. 24 has held as follows :- 31. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the decision reported in
(2006) 11 - S.C.C. - 181 ( McDermott International Inc.
vs. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. and Ors. ), has held as follows :- Intervention of the court is envisaged in few
 circumstances only, like, in case of fraud or bias
 by the arbitrators, violation of natural justice,
 etc. The court cannot correct errors of the
 arbitrators. It can only quash the award leaving
 the parties free to begin the arbitration again if
 it is desired. So, scheme of the provision aims at
 keeping the supervisory role of the court at
 minimum level and this can be justified as parties
 to the agreement make a conscious decision to
 exclude the court's jurisdiction by opting for
 arbitration as they prefer the expediency and
 finality offered by it." 32. Thus, it is observed and held that the arbitral award is
not marred by any patent illegality, as there is no contravention
of the substantive law of India, which would result in the death
knell of an arbitral award. It is also observed that there is no
patent illegality in the arbitral award, which must go to the root
of the matter. The arbitral award is also a well reasoned and a
speaking award. The arbitral award is also held to not be in
contravention of Section 28(3) of the Act, which pertains to the
terms of the contract, trade usages applicable to the nature of
contract and substance of dispute. Com.A.S.No.35/2018 33. Further, as per Rule 4 (c) of the High Court of Karnataka
Arbitration (Proceedings before the Courts) Rules, 2001, the
Arbitrator should be joined as Respondent in this proceedings.
Since the Plaintiff has not made the Learned Arbitrator as a
party to the proceedings, this Petition is liable to be dismissed
on the said ground also. 34. As far as reliance placed by the Learned Advocate for the
Plaintiff on the recent judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court
reported in 2021 - S.C.C. Online - S.C. - 508 ( PSA Sical
Terminals Pvt. Ltd. vs. Board of Trustees of V.O.
Chidambranar Port Trust Tuticorin and Others ) is
concerned, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that a decision,
which is perverse, though may not be a ground for challenge
under public policy of India, however, the same can certainly
amount to a patent illegality appearing on the face of the
award. The Hon'ble Apex Court has further held that a finding
based on no evidence at all or an award which ignores vital
evidence in arriving at its decision, would be perverse and liable
to be set aside. 35. In my humble opinion, it cannot be said, in the present
matter, that finding recorded by the Learned Arbitrator is based 32 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

on no evidence or it has ignored vital evidence before arriving
at the decision. A bare perusal of the award passed by the
Learned Arbitrator shows that evidence of both the parties
have been considered in detail and the Learned Arbitrator has
taken into account each and every submissions advanced by
the parties before him, including appreciation of evidence in
proper manner before arriving at the decision to pass the
impugned award and as such, the judgment cited by the
Learned Counsel for the Petitioner, is of little assistance to him. 36. For the said aspect, I wish to refer a recent decision of the
Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2021) 3 - S.C.C. - 308
(Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Pty. Ltd. vs. MMTC
Limited ), wherein it has laid down the parameters of judicial
review and Courts have been permitted to interfere only if there
is a ground of patent illegality or violation of fundamental policy
of Indian law and if a possible view is based on oral and
documentary evidence led in the case, which cannot be
characterized as being either perverse or being based on no
evidence and as such, no interference is permissible. The
relevant portion of the judgment is reproduced hereunder:- 37. Therefore, I answer this Point in Negative. 38. Point No. 2 :- Therefore, I proceed to pass the following
Order. ORDER

 The Petition filed under Section 34 of
 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996,
 is dismissed. The Arbitral Award dated 16.11.2017 is
 hereby upheld. The Plaintiff shall pay the cost of this
 proceeding to the Defendant. Office is directed to return the
 arbitral records to the Arbitration Center
 after the appeal period is over. The Office is directed to send copy of
 this judgment to both parties to their 34 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

 email ID as required under Order XX Rule
 1 of the Civil Procedure Code as amended
 under Section 16 of the Commercial
 Courts Act. (Dictated to the Stenographer typed by her, corrected and
then pronounced by me in open Court on this the 18th day
of October 2021.). (DEVARAJA BHAT.M),
 LXXXII Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 Bengaluru. 35
 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

 The Judgment is pronounced in
 Open Court. The operative portion of
 the said Judgment is as follows :- 36
 Com.A.S.No.35/2018

 The Plaintiff shall pay the
cost of this proceeding to the
Defendant.