This writ petition is filed for issuance of a writ of Certiorarified Mandamus,

 to quash the impugned order, dated 09.07.2014, passed by the 1st respondent,

 confirming the order passed by the 2nd respondent, dated 11.03.2013 and

 consequently to direct the respondents 1 and 2 to regularize the service of the

 petitioner and grant notional promotion to the petitioner and issue all the service

 benefits pertaining to the punishment period. 2. The petitioner joined the Punjab National Bank as Clerk/Cashier in the

 year 1978, after serving for the past 37 years, retired as Sub Manager. While the

 petitioner was working in Anna Nagar Branch, Madurai, in the year 2007, the 2/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 petitioner was looking after routine work. The petitioner was directed to take care

 of the Loan Department as additional duty due to shortage of staff strength,

 thereby the petitioner was burdened with additional duties. 3. The contention of the petitioner is that most of the details were

 scrutinized and verified by the Manager and the petitioner was directed by the

 Manager for opening fixed deposit or other connected work to quarterly closing.

 In this period one NGO namely Gemini Trust recommended a self help group

 account for 25 borrowers and 37 SJSRY advances. This was sanctioned by the

 then Manager to get substantial deposit from Sri Gokulam Chit Funds.

 Unfortunately, the Secretary of the Government Trust was involved in cheating

 scam after availing the loan and most of the beneficiaries of the “Self Help

 Groups” were recommended by the Gemini Trust. Some of the accounts were

 also slipped to NPA. Hence, charges were framed against the petitioner as if due

 to the irregularities pre and post sanctioned stage of loan, the above incident had

 occurred. The 3rd respondent issued audit objection, dated, 10.05.2010, 3/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 highlighting certain irregularities, the petitioner submitted detailed explanation

 and thereafter, an enquiry officer was appointed on 18.092012. The second

 respondent issued a charge sheet on 04.08.2012 containing 2 main charges. First

 charge in respect of self help group scheme loans and the other charge in respect

 of SJSRY scheme loans. The second charge in respect of SJSRY loans contains

 18 sub charges. All these charges pertained to not following proper pre-

 sanctioned and post-sanctioned safeguards in sanctioning the loans. On

 07.11.2012, an enquiry was conducted and the Proceeding Officer submitted his

 report on 19.12.2012 and the Enquiry Officer submitted his report on 11.01.2013,

 wherein the Charge No.1, sub-charges a, b, c and h were proved and charges d, e,

 f and g were not proved and Charge No.2 for 30 SJSRY loans except f, g and m,

 all other charges were proved. Based on the report, the second respondent without

 considering to the petitioners reply, mechanically accepted the enquiry officer's

 report and imposed penalty, vide order, dated 27.02.2013, whereby, the

 punishment of reduction of two stages lower in the time scale of pay for a period

 of one near was imposed and during this period, the petitioner will not earn any 4/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 increment. Further, on the expiry of the said period, the reduction will have the

 effect of postponing the future increment of his pay in terms of regulation 4 (f)

 PNB Officer Employees” (Discipline and Appeal) Regulations, 1977. Thereafter,

 the second respondent all of a sudden recalled his own order and once again

 issued another order, dated 11.03.2013, wherein the reduction by four stages in

 the time scale of pay for a period of two years was imposed. The petitioner

 preferred an appeal and the first respondent passed the impugned order of

 punishment, dated 09.07.2014, confirming the earlier order. Aggrieved over the

 same, the present writ petition is filed. 4. In spite of several notices, the respondents did not appear in person or

 through its Counsel and did not file any counter affidavit. Hence based on the

 available documents this Court proceed with the case on merits. 5. Heard Mr.B.Prasanna Vinoth, learned Counsel appearing for the

 petitioner and perused the records placed before this Court. 5/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 6. The contention of the petitioner is that the appellate authority has not

 passed any speaking order and he has mechanically adopted the enquiry report.

 On perusing the appellate order, the order contains only one paragraph and there

 is no discussion at all. The impugned order, dated 09.07.2014, is extracted here

 under: 7. The next contention is that the disciplinary authority also has not stated

 any reasons for accepting the enquiry officer report and has not discussed each

 and every charge in his order. The relevant portion is extracted hereunder: 6/12 Absolutely there is no reasons or discussion about each and every charges and

 sub charges. On this ground also the impugned order is liable to be set aside. 8. The next contention that was raised by the petitioner is that to prove the

 charges, the material evidence was not gone into at all. When the petitioner

 submitted this said contention before the enquiry officer, the same was rejected

 and in turn the enquiry officer had stated that the petitioner is the one who has to

 produce evidence for the charge and the burden of proof lies on the delinquent to

 prove his innocence. The enquiry officer also submitted that there is evidence to 7/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 substantiate the charge, the petitioner cannot claim that the bank ought to produce

 any evidence. The learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the enquiry

 officer is totally lost in stating so. The contention of the petitioner before the

 enquiry officer is that the Bank is relying on certain documents, those documents

 ought to be served to the delinquent and thereafter, the enquiry officer ought to

 proceed with the enquiry. The enquiry officer has not produced any documents

 which was relied on by the Bank to substantiate the allegation that the petitioner

 has erred in not following the guidelines. According to the petitioner, none of the

 documents was produced. The petitioner relied on the annexure enclosed along

 with charge sheets. None of those documents were produced before the enquiry

 officer and sought explanation from the delinquent. On perusing the enquiry

 report, it is seen that the enquiry officer has stated that the delinquent was

 permitted to peruse the files and prepare the list of documents and list of

 witnesses on any working day prior to 23.11.2012. For which the petitioner

 submitted that there were more than 500 documents and the petitioner was

 allowed to peruse the documents for only one hour. It is humanly impossible to 8/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 peruse the documents and take xerox copies of the documents within one hour.

 Moreover, the contention of the petitioner is that the scoring sheet was not

 produced which is the vital evidence to prove the case. From this itself it is

 evident that the respondents have not granted adequate opportunity to the

 petitioner to peruse the records and has not granted the copies of the documents,

 which the respondents relied on. Such an approach of the enquiry officer is totally

 against the principles of natural justice and on this ground also the petition is

 entitled to relief. 9. The learned Counsel for the petitioner further submitted that the

 petitioner was holding the additional charge and in the additional charge the

 impugned proceedings were initiated. The Bank is required to post adequate staff

 for maintaining the Branch. If any additional charge is conferred on any staff,

 certain lapses in pre-sanctioned and post-sanctioned cannot be a ground for

 taking action. The specific contention that was raised by the petitioner is that the

 Manager was also involved in sanctioning the loans who was also assigned to 9/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 peruse the documents but the respondents have not initiated any action against the

 Branch Manager. Therefore, there was discrimination also. 10. Therefore, this Court is of the considered opinion that the case ought to

 be remitted back to the respondents for conducting re-enquiry. At this juncture,

 the learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner has

 already attained superannuation at the time of filing the writ petition. As on date,

 the writ petitioner would be 67 years old. Therefore, considering the age of the

 petitioner, conducting re-enquiry will not serve any purpose. Hence, this Court is

 inclined to modify the punishment as stoppage of increment for 6 months without

 affecting future increments. The respondents are directed to implement the

 modified punishment within a period of 6 weeks from the date of receipt of a

 copy of this order and disburse the consequential benefits to the petitioner. 10/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.(MD)No.11074 of 2015 11. With the above said observation, the writ petition is disposed of. No

 costs.