SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A story/light novel
DATE: 2022-10-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/yc4cjp/a_storylight_novel/

--- POST TEXT ---

Around dec 2021 I got myself in some dirty business for some money, power, respect.......... 

Dec 15,2021

I watched a movie name wolf of wall Street it's about a real life person who did many kind of fraud, scam for money etc. Unbelievably I got inspired by it. Not me I think everyone will get by the way they represented the story and character. anyway it's not about the movie...... 

I used to watch memes and stuff on an app most people are unaware of but that was not all. I got myself in a group of dealing account, currency and many more things gods knows. And as you can imagine a totally online platform I got my ass scammed. I got filled with many feeling but the one I remembered correctly was "" WOW "" yeah I know it feel weird after getting your ass scammed you didn't cry but was amazed

But after all this mess my mind was totally on different level than any other 15 year old kid. I got a moto in my mind people are fucking idiots they deserve what's comming for them. after continuously searching for 15 fucking days i got my first target. I used all I got all words I got and convinced him and later snapped everything from him. I was not in guilt but instead I got cold laughs

From then I started living my life in expenses buying everything I need even more than that and killing my own feelings by my own hand that was fun for me and throughout that time I learned 1 one which was very clear to me

____Money is not a drug but is like alcohol it makes you more of what you are_____And believe me it got me wild. with me killing my emotion I started destroying peoples life with the way of talk I developed with time which is "lying"

For example:-
You worked hard on something with love, money,time then I came fucked your mind with my words snapped everything from you and torture you. till you might suicide, well like hell I cared

things gone wild for me the amount of cursing, cries, bad mouthing increased for me till the point I got my ass popular in that group.By that time I already finished every emotions, sympathy I got in me. the only thing left was a lonely cold hearted. 

with time I got my self full. I didn't enjoyed doing dirty stuff but I got addicted to it as it became a part of my life that's not all I also got my friend involved in it. 

But the resolve to leave the past behind was high in my heart. I started socialising in my school and lucky I falled in love with a girl from my class
curly hair around 5.4, introvert type I thought but that was not correct. But I was no longer I got to know that those cursing worked. The things I touched always broked and got in worse condition. 

My secret kept revealing to people I never wanted to show this side of my life worst part of my life. I also got in self realisation about the things I have done before the words :- I will suicide please dont do it, I thought we were brother why are you doing this, Please dont do it I eat all my medicine" started making sense I cut myself from rest of the world. and thought of only one thing

""""""""""""""""""""""" SHOULD I END IT ALL """""""""""""""""""""""