WazirX is the second major Indian crypto exchange after CoinDCX to publish its Proof of Reserves, according to a press release by the company. The company has also made its list of wallet addresses and exchanges public besides an independent report on its proof of reserves.

The report offers a detailed description of WazirX’s assets which are updated in real-time. The exchange also claimed that its reserves-to-liabilities ratio is more than 1:1 which suggests that it can honour every request in case every user makes a withdrawal request.

Rajagopal Menon, Vice President, WazirX, said in a statement that the exchange is looking to provide its users with the “trust and security they deserve”.

Understanding Proof of Reserves: It is an independent audit conducted by a third party which ensures that an entity holds the assets it claims to on behalf of its clients.

Why it matters: WazirX is one of India’s largest crypto exchanges and its efforts to foster transparency is a good step to instil trust in the crypto ecosystem. The erosion of trust has been severe in the aftermath of the collapse of FTX which was one of the biggest exchanges in the world.

What does the report reveal: The exchange has nearly $295 million in total holdings, out of which 19 percent of its reserves are in the form of Shiba Inu. Moreover, the company also has nearly 300 million Dogecoin which are worth $23.9 million in total. You can check out their holdings here .

What about other exchanges: CoinDCX published its proof of reserves and reserves to liabilities ratio in November 2021. It reported that it held nearly $124 million worth of assets concentrated in Bitcoin and Ethereum followed by Shiba Inu. CoinSwitch announced that it had tapped INMACS, an independent firm, to conduct an audit of its financials, and the firm reported that the exchange’s overall holdings of crypto and rupee balances are higher than those of user’s holdings of Crypto and INR balances on its platform.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event