The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come out with final guidelines for peer-to-peer (P2P) lending platforms. With these guidelines, P2P lending companies will now be regulated as non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and will come under the purview of the RBI.

In April last year, RBI looking to regulate the sector with measures including requiring minimum capital and prohibiting them from promising “extraordinary returns.”

Here is a lowdown of the regulations:

The quarterly statements shall be submitted to the Regional Office within 15 days after the quarter: The statement should include:

The guidelines from the RBI norms for disclosures are welcome. The disclosures on how companies are calculating credit scores are welcome to borrowers. Right now, with many companies looking to build credit scores through by looking at cash-flows and information on how the platforms collect this information is crucial. Companies such as EarlySalary are building credit profiles based on information on social media. Meanwhile, there are untested methods which profiles people psychologically on seeing if they are eligible for a loan.

Meanwhile, the requirement that loan information will have to be shared with credit information companies is welcome. First-time borrowers will now be able to get a better credit score and get better loans in the future.

The disclosures on non-performing assets should provide give information to lenders on the performance of portfolios and whether they should use the platform.

The clarity that the funds coming in from lenders and borrowers cannot be on their balance sheets is welcome and the clear definition of maintaining separate escrows for lenders and borrowers is wise and will lead to more robust processes.

However, lending platforms have been complaining that the maintenance of a leverage ratio of 2 does not make sense as they act as intermediaries and they do not hold any debt, as indicated by this Economic Times report . Leverage ratio is a financial measurement that look at how much capital comes in the form of debt (loans) and equity. This might hurt their expansion plans.

The RBI also needs to detail more extensively how platforms or lenders can recover money in case of default. Right now it only says that it can provide services for recovery. How this is achieved is not mentioned.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event