Petitioner-Saurav Harsh, a practicing Advocate, who intends

to apply for registration of a partnership firm of Advocates with

the Registrar of Firms, has approached this Court challenging the

mandatory requirement of providing Aadhaar number of partners

and validation of the same in the online application form for

registration of a partnership firm. It is argued that though the Rajasthan Partnership Rules,

2017 promulgated by the respondent-State in exercise of its

power conferred upon it by Section 71 of the Indian Partnership

Act, 1932 vide notification dated 31.10.2017 nowhere mandatorily

requires the giving of Aadhaar number for registration of a firm,

but the respondents in the Standard Operating Procedure for

registration of partnership firm have made it mandatory and

therefore in the proforma of online application form for

registration of firm also, it is mandatorily required. (2 of 3) [CW-25861/2018]

 Learned counsel argued that the Constitution Bench of the

Supreme Court in the case of Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) vs.

Union of India & Ors., Writ Petition (Civil) No.494/2012 dated

26.09.2018 in conclusions of the judgement recorded in para 447

in sub-para 2(m) has observed that as far as subsidies, services

and benefits are concerned, the scope of the Aadhaar is not to be

unduly expanded thereby widening the net of Aadhaar, where it is

not permitted otherwise. In the context of CBSE, NEET, JEE, UGC

etc., it was held that they cannot make requirement of Aadhaar

mandatory as they are outside the purview of Section 7 and are

not backed by any law. However, while considering Section 57 of

Aadhaar Act, it was held that the same is susceptible to misuse

inasmuch it can be used for establishing the identity of an

individual 'for any purpose' and therefore the aforesaid provision

was read down to mean that such a purpose has to be backed by

law and whenever any such "law" is made, it would be subject to

judicial scrutiny. The mandate of linking of Aadhaar with bank

accounts was held not to have satisfied the test of proportionality.

It was held that the Circular dated March 23, 2017 issued by the

Department of Telecommunications mandating linking of mobile

number with Aadhaar is illegal and unconstitutional. Learned counsel argued that in the proforma of the online

application form of registration not only the Aadhaar number is

mandatorily required to be filled in in the relevant column, but

also the same is required to be validated, which could be done on

the respondents' sending OTP through the mobile number and

such mobile number would be procured by them from the Aadhaar

linkage of the applicant. This requirement has also been

mentioned in the Standard Operating Procedure for registration of
 (3 of 3) [CW-25861/2018]

 partnership firm issued by the respondents. Action of the

 respondents is not backed by any law. Issue notice, returnable by eight weeks. In the meantime, the respondents shall not insist upon the

 petitioner to provide Aadhaar number for registration of the

 partnership firm and if necessary, the application of the petitioner

 for registration of the partnership firm shall be processed on hard

 copy, if their system does not accept the online application without

 the Aadhaar Number. (GOVERDHAN BARDHAR),J (MOHAMMAD RAFIQ),J

 RS/37

Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)