SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Conditioning, Conditioning, Conditioning : born unconditioned and potential to explore vs forced and coerced into conditioning of the world view of few (??)
DATE: 2024-06-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1dr199f/conditioning_conditioning_conditioning_born/

--- POST TEXT ---

Note : The survey data used here, is based on a small sample size on reddit. While it may not be statistically representative of the entire population, it still reflects patterns and beliefs observed in everyday life. These insights are drawn from common experiences and interactions within the community. And actual scenario would probably be more skewed towards maybe less awareness of self inconsistent beliefs etc and more sentiment towards beliefs. 

 

most of us, Indians think, they are not conditioned but they believe and act on absurd belief systems which is also visible in above surveys (belief in karma, but dont believe in god, and don't think they are externally conditioned to behave like that. there are many more such beliefs too. where superstitious beliefs have taken different forms and alive due to cultural practices and alot of people dont have any memory or explanation on why they believe those things or do those things. These just seem harmless so they continue. 

One more extreme but currently visible thing could be people's entrenched beliefs about marriage and family vs current changes etc. You can see the cognitive dissonances and then all these causing in complete belief revision of their self. Can be seen in a lot of other things too. (whole PR and marketing game, how they current sentiment and people's beliefs towards celebs)

But Is training yourself to not look deeper into things, always impeding your will because of instructions of some books without even some reason alot of times. Don't you think these affects people, children? yeah, indoctrination, but it is so well accepted here and even celebrated if someone becomes foolishly blind in faith. 

In other way their real life priorities on social level like basic needs etc don't get widespread support due to some entrenched beliefs among society. but are these beliefs natural or intentionally gets promotion whereas for other field (faiths etc), basic things intentionally gets lots of exposure, showing how to act in reactionary way. and people find it correct to defend their soft spots ignoring other their social and moral responsibilities. (not all, but some or even few who gets affect are enough to cause ruckus in society)There are high material gains also. 

And the most clever things are : using existing humanistic values and emotions to condition with their rituals etc and put their explanation as fundamental belief in you. So that even when real life shows different outcomes etc, it becomes really difficult to see the reality because of the deeper reach of those beliefs. 

along with these they also intentionally target emotional people and emotional side of people to create highly soft spots which they exploit for material gains and creating ruckus or some spread of ideas etc but people have to drop those old age beliefs which they are being fed everywhere in the name of culture and faith and need to realise where their actual morals and ethics comes from. and what are the root causes of recurring problems of communalism and misplaced priorities in society? 

lets not talk about these faiths have given divine narrative of the world, where problems of humans become secondary (often means problems and benefits of few becomes problems of everyone). 

the whole basis of human society is human collaboration, and inclusive values with some restrictive laws etc. human society didn't come into existence because of divine creation. also whatever the ethics and morals of society, religious faiths explain with their logic, do they realize there might have been time when that custom didn't existed in human society and so no such value? basically their fake fundamental nature and absoluteness claim.

If people keep thinking this world is divine subconsciously, they will obviously put more sentiment and effort into God's home, instead of their needs and conditions. (see situation of education, health infra and condition vs status of religious places, their reach, their support from government, public all)

passivity for important things in actual reality vs aggressiveness for manufactured sentimental or sacred object/people/idea. And people defending these organized spread in society at such a big level, should see how it is like giving scammers a clean cheat to continue and just criminalising their one member who just started doing too much scam/exploitation, but is it okay to allowing such dumbness propagation 

even our constitution is directly against it. that these practices are causing problems to public order, morality and physical and mental health. 

\`\`\`Article 25 in Constitution of India25. Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion(1)Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion.

\`\`\`

propagation and support for religious things and then same things causing problems in society and then after bad cops have done their damage, good cops (more apologist religious people) come and rationalize and explain why the root cause is not religion (coke), it is just dose (extremism in) of it. And then scammers become aware not to try that old age idea, and try something new or re-try older ones, because usually they won't face any consequences. Doesn't these types and many more subtle, everywhere ideas, cultural practices which condition blind faith, imped the overall thinking beyond surface capacity. And last point, some people even come forward and claim benefits :

 but is their benefit actually coming from it? sometimes it is just byproduct, their root activity is/was already in use. they just put their clothes on it. Sometimes these people believe different version of the same thing (name same but different understanding or whole together different perspetctive towards it due to personal etc diff), so they might not see harm, because their other beliefs ignore these types of beliefs in actual thinkingbut because you had other rational options and you knew what to choosebut a lot of people don't have that much exposure and exercise on these, they usually use these same thinking beliefs and use logic on top of that etc.

 try to think why witch burning existed? why slavery existed? somewhere there were material gains, but still these ideas need to be believed by many to exist, so they had been given explanations and justifications usually societal changes are in form of material movements or some societal level changes in beliefs etc. 

-----------------------------------

&gt;survey results in text format : 

Do your moral and ethical values come from your religious beliefs?

Open • 73 total votes

8 - Yes, mostly from my religious beliefs.

4 - No, they are not primarily based on religious beliefs. Religious beliefs for traditional following and respect.

15 - Somewhat, a mix of religious and other influences. Some values have modern values but some still have roots in faiths

42 - No, they are primarily based on societal views/secular/modern view

4 - I am unsure. I haven't given much thought about it.

Do you believe in Karma?

Closed • 78 total votes

31 - Yes, as it works.

47 -No, as it doesn't. Causation principle is fundamental.

To what extent do you allow your daily decisions and behaviors to be influenced by internal and external factors?

Closed • 18 total votes

6 - I primarily make my own decisions, with some external influence.

0 - I am largely unaware of my decisions and am conditioned by external influences.

4 - My decisions are heavily influenced by societal norms, family expectations, and peer pressure. I am aware

8 - I prioritize my personal values and beliefs in making decisions, alongside external influences.

What's Your Take on Religion?

14 - the creation of religion that's supposed to free our mind. It is truth of this divine world.

33 - religion is good but we have to think ourselves, keeping it as customs

58 - religion is used by some to gain more power, it has hijacked our culture and morality.