This petition by the defendants in Commercial

OS.No.1137/2023 on the file of the LXXXIV Additional City

Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru is directed against the

impugned order dated 28.03.2024 whereby the application

IA.No.2 filed by the petitioners/defendants to delete -4- NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

defendants No.2 to 5 from the suit was rejected by the

Commercial Court. 2. Heard learned counsel for the petitioners and

perused the material on record. The respondent having

been served with notice of the present petition has chosen

to remain unrepresented and has not contested the present

petition. 3. A perusal of the material on record will indicate that

the respondent/plaintiff instituted the aforesaid suit against

the petitioners/defendants for recovery of a sum of

Rs.1,28,16,076/- and for other reliefs. The defendant No.1

is a private limited company and defendant No.2 is its

managing director while defendants No.3 to 5 are the

remaining directors of the defendant No.1-company. In

addition to contesting the suit, the petitioners/defendants

filed the instant application seeking deletion of defendants

No.2 to 5 on the ground that the subject transaction was

between the plaintiff and defendant No.1 which is a private

limited company and a independent juristic and legal entity -5- NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

and the defendants No.2 to 5 being the directors cannot be

held personally liable for the liability of the company which

is an independent juristic and legal entity. The said

application filed by the petitioners having been contested by

the respondents/plaintiffs, the trial Court proceeded to pass

the impugned order rejecting IA.No.2, aggrieved by which

the petitioners are before this Court by way of the present

petition. 4. Learned counsel for petitioners would submit that

the impugned order is contrary to facts and law and the

same deserves to be set aside by placing reliance upon the

judgments reported in 2018 SCC 10722 in M/s Faith

Mercantile Pvt. Ltd., V/s M/s Simbhaoli Sugars Ltd &

Ors. And in C.R.PNo.166/2018 and CM.Appeal

No.32378/2017 and 10441/2021 dated 12.04.2021

in Sanju Bathla and Anr. V/s Manu Maheshwari & Ors. By the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR 5. A perusal of undisputed material on record including

the plaint averments will clearly indicate that while the

defendant No.1 is an independent jurisdiction and legal

entity, represented by defendant No.2 its managing

director, the remaining defendants i.e., defendants No.3 to

5 are merely directors of the defendant No.1 company and

cannot be held liable to answer the claim of the plaintiff

which is as against the defendant No.1-company. In this

context, in the case of Max Linear Technologies Private

Limited, this Court held as under: Petitioner No.3/defendant No.10 is again Director of -7- NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 Physical Design of 1st petitioner Company; petitioners
 Nos.4 to 6/defendant Nos. 11 to 13 are the erstwhile
 Directors of respondent No.2 Company, petitioner Nos. 7
 to 17/defendant Nos. 14 to 24 are the erstwhile
 employees of 2nd respondent Company. The 1st
 respondent is an Indian consulting Company specialized in
 developing integrated hardware and software solutions for
 the semiconductor industry. The 2nd
 respondent/defendant No.1 is a Private Limited Company
 engaged in the business of engineering consulting and
 product development and respondent No.3 is the erstwhile
 Director of respondent No.2 Company. 2.2. In the month of November, 2021 one Manjesh,
 founder and CEO of the 1st respondent Company
 approaches the 2nd respondent Company offering
 assistance to the Company for identification of potential M
 & A opportunities. It is the case of the petitioners that
 during discussions, the 2nd respondent shared the
 Company's profile with the 1st respondent, but no
 confidential data or information was shared at that stage.
 After several rounds of discussions and exchange of drafts,
 on 09-05-2022, the 1st respondent Company/plaintiff and
 the 2nd respondent Company/defendant No.1 enter into a
 Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) and a Managed Services
 Partner Agreement (MSPA) on 25 01-2022. The 3rd
 respondent/defendant No.2 being the Director and
 authorized signatory of the 2nd respondent Company
 signed and executed the said agreements on behalf of the
 Company. The MSPA was valid for a term of three months
 during which period if the 2nd respondent Company was
 contacted by any third parties who were introduced
 through the 1st respondent Company, the 2nd respondent
 was required to promptly inform the 1st respondent
 Company regarding the same and the 1st respondent
 Company was also entitled to success fees. The 2nd
 respondent Company however states that their
 relationship with the 2nd respondent Company was non-
 exclusive in nature. Prior to these agreements, on 14-03-
 2022, the 2nd respondent Company also entered into an
 NDA with Aptamitra USA Consulting LLC who was the US
 subsidiary of the 1st respondent Company, which was
 valid for a term of 2 years. NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 2.3. Subsequently, several discussions ensue
 between the 2nd and 3rd respondent Companies regarding
 the employment of the employees of the 2nd respondent
 Company in USA, for which the 1st respondent Company
 with the help of its US subsidiary, would facilitate in
 obtaining H1B visas for the employees. The two companies
 also enter into an H1B Master Services Agreement for the
 same. Out of the 45 employee profiles which were shared,
 11 employees - the petitioner Nos.7 to 17, were selected
 for the HIB visa process, all of which according to the 1st
 respondent Company cost it a huge amount of money.
 This, the respondent No.1 Company states, increased the
 valuation of the 2nd respondent Company. However,
 though the initial approvals for the 11 employees were
 obtained, the 2nd respondent company decided 10 not to
 proceed with the H1B visa engagement process and none
 of the employees were thus placed. Even the draft Master
 Services Agreement for the purported US based
 arrangements was never executed. 2.4. In July, 2022 the 2nd respondent
 Company/defendant No.1 comes in contact with the
 petitioner No.1 Company/defendant No.3 which the
 Petitioner No.1 states happened without the involvement
 of respondent No.1 Company and was unrelated to the
 transactions between the 1st and 2nd respondent
 Companies. In August, 2022 the term of the MSPA
 between the 1st and 2nd respondent Companies expired
 and by September, 2022 the H1B visa process culminated.
 The unilateral withdrawal from the H1B visa process,
 causes a rift between the 1st and 2nd respondent
 Companies, which the 1st respondent states, was caused
 by the inducement of the petitioner No.1 Company, upon
 increase in valuation of the 2nd respondent Company.
 Legal proceedings were thus taken up by the 1st
 respondent/plaintiff by causing a legal notice to petitioners
 1 to 9 demanding ₹40/- crores on account of loss of
 business opportunities and credibility. Mediation
 proceedings were initiated under Section 12A of the
 Commercial Courts Act, 2015 by filing a mediation
 application before the competent fora seeking ₹32/- crore
 damages on account of alleged breach of contract. During
 mediation proceedings, the 1st respondent had named
 only respondent No.2 and petitioners 1 to 9 as opposite
 parties. The mediation proceedings failed. On failure of -9- NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 mediation proceedings, a commercial suit comes to be
 instituted in Commercial O.S.No.1495 of 2023 now
 arraigning respondents 2 and 3 and petitioners 1 to 17 as
 defendants 1 to 24 in the suit. The Commercial Court
 directed issuance of summons to all the defendants, the
 petitioners and respondents 2 and 3. 2.5. The issue in the lis does not relate to the merit
 of the matter before the concerned Court. In the
 concerned Court an application is filed under Order 1 to
 Rule 10 r/w Section 151 of the CPC by defendant No.15
 seeking his deletion from the array of parties. Likewise,
 other applications sprang under Order 1 Rule 10 of the
 CPC seeking their deletion from the array of parties. Those
 applications were filed by the remaining defendants named
 in this petition, barring defendants 1 and 2 and defendants
 8 and 9. The 12 applications were preferred on the score
 that there is no cause of action against the petitioners; no
 agreement between the petitioners and the 1st
 respondent/plaintiff and that the 1st petitioner/defendant
 No.3 is a separate entity. Written statements were filed by
 the 1st petitioner and 2nd respondent. 3rd respondent and
 remaining petitioners adopted the written statement filed
 by 1st petitioner and 2nd respondent. The concerned
 Court, after hearing the parties on the applications under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC , rejected the applications
 seeking deletion of defendants from the array of parties, in
 terms of the impugned order. Aggrieved by the said order,
 the petitioners are before this Court in the subject
 petition. 3. Heard Sri. Vivek Holla along with Smt. Maitreyi B.
 Kannur, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners and
 Sri. Manu P. Kulkarni along with Smt. Sukanya Basu
 Mallik, learned counsel appearing for the respondent No.1. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners
 would contend that the Commercial Court has failed to
 appreciate that the real controversy in the case before it,
 is between the 1st respondent/plaintiff and defendant Nos.
 1 and 2. No relief is claimed against these petitioners in
 the suit and no cause of action is made out against these
 petitioners. The suit is filed for the alleged breach of terms
 and conditions of two agreements dated 9-05-2022
 executed only between the plaintiff and defendant No.1 to
 which the present petitioners are not parties or - 10 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 signatories. There is no privity of contract except between
 the plaintiff and defendant No.1. The allegations of breach
 of terms and conditions of the MSPA and NDA, the two
 agreements, were only made against the 2nd
 respondent/1st defendant. The learned counsel would
 submit that mere discharge of duties by the Directors of
 the Company would not make such Director necessary or
 proper parties to the suit against the Company. Petitioner
 Nos. 7 to 17 are erstwhile employees of the 2nd
 respondent. They are only beneficiaries of the H1B visa
 process and they had no direct dealings with the plaintiff.
 The learned counsel submits that the object of Order 1
 Rule 10 of the CPC is investing ample power upon the
 Court to strike out the name of any party who has been
 improperly joined. He would seek the petition be allowed
 and the petitioners be deleted from the array of
 defendants. 5. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the
 plaintiff/1st respondent would contend that the petition is
 preferred by misrepresenting the facts. Respondent Nos. 1
 and 2 entered into an exclusivity agreement, whereby
 respondent No.1 was appointed as the MSP for M & A
 pursuant to an agreement between the plaintiff/
 respondent No.1 and respondent No.2. There is a clear
 admission of breach of exclusivity as obtaining in the
 terms of the contract. Therefore, the 1st
 respondent/Company is only claiming its legitimate fee as
 agreed upon in the agreements. He would contend that
 the order of the Commercial Court is challenged belatedly
 after about 3 months, only to protract the proceedings
 before the concerned Court. He would submit that there is
 clear cause of action against petitioner Nos. 2 to 6 as they
 are liable for inducing the respondent No.2 to breach the
 MSPA and NDA. The petitioner Nos.7 to 17 had the
 knowledge of the arrangements as evidenced from
 multiple communications. He would contend that the
 plaintiff being the dominus litus has a right to choose the
 person against whom he wishes to litigate. The petitioners
 are liable for tortious interference or tort of inducement of
 breach of contract. The petitioners are also liable for
 committing the tort of civil conspiracy. On this score he
 would submit that the petition be dismissed and the order
 of the concerned Court be affirmed. - 11 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR 6. I have given my anxious consideration to the
 submissions made by the respective learned counsels for
 all the parties and have perused the material available on
 record. 7. The afore-narrated facts are a matter of record.
 They would not require any reiteration. In furtherance
 whereof, the issue that falls for consideration is whether
 applications filed by these petitioners under Order 1 Rule
 10 of the CPC seeking their deletion require to be allowed
 or otherwise. The learned counsel appearing for the 1st
 respondent would accept the fact that petitioners 7 to
 17/defendants 14 to 24 have no role to play and,
 therefore, they could be deleted from the array of
 defendants. Thus, what remains to be considered is
 whether petitioners 1 to 6 are proper and necessary
 parties to the lis. Therefore, the 16 examination of the
 impugned order is now restricted only to petitioners 1 to 6. 8. Before embarking upon consideration of the issue
 on its merits, I deem it appropriate to notice the statute
 and the interpretation of the said statute by various
 Courts. Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC reads as follows: The Court may at any stage of the
 proceedings, either upon or without the
 application of either party, and on such
 terms as may appear to the Court to be
 just, order that the name of any party
 improperly joined, whether as plaintiff or
 defendant, be struck out, and that the - 12 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 name of any person who ought to have
 been joined, whether as plaintiff or
 defendant, or whose presence before the
 Court may be necessary in order to enable
 the Court effectually and completely to
 adjudicate upon and settle all the
 questions involved in the suit, be added. (3) No person shall be added as a plaintiff
 suing without a next friend or as the next
 friend of a plaintiff under any disability without
 his consent. (4) Where defendant added, plaint to be
 amended.-- Where a defendant is added, the
 plaint shall, unless the Court otherwise directs,
 be amended in such manner as may be
 necessary, and amended copies of the
 summons and of the plaint shall be served on
 the new defendant and, if the Court thinks fit,
 on the original defendant. (5) Subject to the
 provisions of the Indian Limitation Act, 1877
 (15 of 1877), Section 22 , the proceedings as
 against any person added as defendant shall
 be deemed to have begun only on the service
 of the summons." (Emphasis supplied)

 Sub-rule (2) of Order 1 Rule 10 provides the power to the
 Court to either add parties as plaintiffs or defendants
 whose presence, the Court deems is necessary for
 effective adjudication of the suit or delete such parties if
 they were improperly joined. INTERPRETATION OF ORDER 1 RULE 10 OF THE CPC : (Emphasis supplied) 24. It is limpid in the aforesaid observation that
 if a party is found to either a necessary or proper
 party, the court would have the jurisdiction to implead
 him, even against the wishes of the plaintiff
 concerned. In Mumbai International Airport (supra)
 another pertinent question that arose was whether
 there existed any conflict between the three-judge
 bench decision of this Court
 in Kasturi v. Iyyamperumal, (2005) 6 SCC 733 and the
 decision of a two-judge bench in Sumtibai v. Paras
 Finance Co. Regd. Partnership Firm Beawer
 (Raj.), (2007) 10 SCC 82. 25. In Kasturi (supra), the respondent nos. 1 and 4 to
 11 respectively therein, based their claim to be added as
 party defendants on an independent title and possession of
 the contracted property. In such a backdrop, while
 rejecting the applications for impleadment, this Court
 had expounded the scope of Order I Rule
 10(2) CPC and laid down certain tests for determining
 whether a person is a 'necessary party' for the purpose
 of impleadment in a suit for specific performance as
 follows: NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 representatives, as also persons who had
 purchased the contracted property from the
 vendor. A subsequent purchaser would be a
 necessary party since his rights would be
 affected irrespective of whether he had
 purchased the contracted property, with or
 without notice of the contract. However, it was
 clarified that a person whose claim is adverse
 to the claim of a vendor, is not a 'necessary
 party'. Therefore, two tests were laid down by
 this Court, which must be satisfied for
 determining the question as to who is a
 necessary party -- (1) there must be a right to
 some relief against such party in respect of the
 controversies involved in the proceedings; (2)
 no effective decree can be passed in the
 absence of such party. The relevant
 observations read as under: (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, as regards the meaning of "proper
 party", it was observed that in case of a suit for
 specific performance, the guiding principle for
 deciding who is a proper party is that the
 presence of such a party is necessary to
 adjudicate the controversies involved in the
 suit for specific performance of the agreement - 16 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 to sell. Such a question has to be decided while
 keeping in mind the scope of the suit for
 specific performance. If the addition of that
 party enlarges the scope of such suit so as to
 convert it into a suit for title, then the presence
 of such a party cannot be said to be necessary
 for the effective adjudication of the
 controversies involved in the suit. The relevant
 observations read as under: ---xxx--- 15. [...] In the case of Vijay
 Pratap v. Sambhu Saran Sinha [(1996) 10 SCC 53]
 this Court had taken the same view which is being
 taken by us in this judgment as discussed above.
 This Court in that decision clearly held that to decide
 the right, title and interest in the suit property of the
 stranger to the contract is beyond the scope of the
 suit for specific performance of the contract and the
 same cannot be turned into a regular title
 suit. Therefore, in our view, a third party or a
 stranger to the contract cannot be added so as to
 convert a suit of one character into a suit of different
 character. [...]" NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 Ltd. [[1956] 1 All ER 273 : [1956] 1 Q.B.
 357 : [1956] 2 WLR 372] it has been held that a
 person is legally interested in the answers to the
 controversies only if he can satisfy the court that it
 may lead to a result that will affect him legally." (Emphasis supplied) 26. However, this Court, in its subsequent decision
 in Sumtibai (supra), was faced with a factual scenario
 wherein the sons of the original defendant were also prima
 facie found to be co-owners of the contracted property. The
 sons were already impleaded in their capacity of being legal
 representatives to the deceased defendant who had entered
 into an agreement to sell in favour of the plaintiff therein. In
 this background, it was observed that it cannot be laid down
 as an absolute proposition that in a suit for specific
 performance, a third party can never be impleaded. It was
 opined that the decision of this court in Kasturi (supra) must
 be seen in the context in which it was delivered.
 Furthermore, some circumstantial flexibility is necessary to
 be taken into account in each case, since an additional or
 different fact may materially change the conclusion.
 Therefore, the sons of the original defendant were allowed to
 file an additional written statement and take the defence of
 co-ownership which was available to them. 27. While distinguishing Kasturi (supra), it was held
 in Sumtibai (supra) that if a third party can show a fair
 semblance of title or interest, he can file an application for
 impleadment in the suit for specific performance. The
 relevant observations read thus: (Emphasis supplied) 28. This Court in Mumbai International
 Airport (supra) was also of the view that different
 situations require the application of different facets of
 Order I Rule 10(2) and consequently, held that there
 was no conflict between the decisions of this Court
 in Kasturi (supra) and Sumtibai (supra). It was
 reiterated that that Order I Rule 10(2) CPC did not
 pertain to the 'right' of a non-party to be impleaded as
 a party but deals with the 'judicial discretion' of the
 court to strike out or add parties at any stage of the
 proceeding. In exercising this judicial discretion,
 courts must act according to reason and fair play and
 not according to whims and caprice. 29. It was observed that the court may exercise
 discretion in impleading a person who is a 'proper
 party' upon an application by a non-party to the suit
 for specific performance. If the court is of the view - 20 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 that the impleadment of such a proper party will alter
 the nature of the suit or introduce a new cause of
 action, it may either refuse to implead such person or
 order for his impleadment on certain conditions.
 However, even otherwise, the court would not be
 precluded from impleading a 'proper party'
 unconditionally in its discretion. The relevant
 observations rendered in Mumbai International
 Airport (supra) read thus: (Emphasis supplied)" NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 to be a desirable consequence of the rule rather
 than its main objective. The person to be joined
 must be one whose presence is necessary as a
 party. What makes a person a necessary party
 is not merely that he has relevant evidence to
 give on some of the questions involved; that
 would only make him a necessary witness. It
 is not merely that he has an interest in the
 correct solution of some question involved
 and has thought of relevant arguments to
 advance. The only reason which makes it
 necessary to make a person a party to an
 action is so that he should be bound by the
 result of the action and the question to be
 settled, therefore, must be a question in the
 action which cannot be effectually and
 completely settled unless he is a party. The
 line has been drawn on a wider construction
 of the rule between the direct interest or the
 legal interest and commercial interest. It is,
 therefore, necessary that the person must be
 directly or legally interested in the action in
 the answer, i.e., he can say that the litigation
 may lead to a result which will affect him
 legally that is by curtailing his legal rights. It
 is difficult to say that the rule contemplates joining
 as a defendant a person whose only object is to
 prosecute his own cause of action. Similar provision
 was considered in Amon v. Raphael Tuck & Sons
 Ltd. [(1956) 1 All ER 273 : (1956) 1 QB 357] ,
 wherein after quoting the observations of Wynn-
 Parry, J. in DollfusMieg et Compagnie S.A. v. Bank
 of England [(1950) 2 All ER 605, 611] , that their
 true test lies not so much in an analysis of
 what are the constituents of the applicants'
 rights, but rather in what would be the result
 on the subject matter of the action if those
 rights could be established, Devlin, J. has
 stated: (Emphasis supplied)

 8.3. The Apex Court, again in its later judgment, in AIRPORTS ECONOMIC REGULATORY
 AUTHORITY OF INDIA v. DELHI - 23 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT LIMITED5 while
 summarizing the principles of exercise of
 jurisdiction under Order 1 Rule 10 or 10(2) of the
 CPC , holds that a party would be a necessary party
 only when such party would be bound by the result
 of the action and has a direct or a legal interest in
 the proceeding. The Apex Court observes as
 follows: ".... .... .... 39. Order 1 Rule 10 CPC grants the court the
 power to strike out or add parties. The rule
 provides that the court may either with or
 without the application of the party, add the
 name of the party who ought to have been
 joined or whose presence before the court
 may be necessary for the court to effectively
 adjudicate upon the questions involved in the
 suit. [ Order 1 Rule 10(2):"10. (2) Court may
 strike out or add parties.--The Court may at any
 stage of the proceedings, either upon or without
 the application of either party, and on such terms
 as may appear to the Court to be just, order that
 the name of any party improperly joined, whether
 as plaintiff or defendant, be struck out, and that the
 name of any person who ought to have been
 joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose
 presence before the Court may be necessary in
 order to enable the Court effectually and
 completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the
 questions involved in the suit, be added."] This
 Court has sufficiently dealt with proper and
 necessary parties referable to Order 1 Rule
 10 CPC . A necessary party is defined as
 someone who is indispensable to the suit and
 without whom the suit cannot effectively
 proceed. A proper party, on the other hand, is
 a party who has an interest in the
 adjudication of the suit though they may not
 be a person in whose favour or against whom
 a decree ought to be made. [ See Vidur Impex &
 Traders (P) Ltd. v. Tosh Apartments (P) Ltd. ,
 (2012) 8 SCC 384 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ)
 1; Thomson Press (India) Ltd. v. Nanak Builders &
 Investors (P) Ltd. , (2013) 5 SCC 397 : (2013) 3
 SCC (Civ) 1] This Court has further held that a
 party would not become a necessary party
 merely because she has an interest in the 5 (2024) 15 SCC 345 - 24 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 correct solution of the question involved. She
 would be a necessary party only when she
 would be bound by the result of the action and
 has a direct or a legal interest in the
 proceeding. [ See Ramesh
 HirachandKundanmal v. Municipal Corpn., Greater
 Bombay , (1992) 2 SCC 524, para 14; Also
 see Kasturi v. Iyyamperumal, (2005) 6 SCC 733] In
 view of the judgments of this Court
 in CCI [CCI v. SAIL, ( 2010) 10 SCC 744]
 and Dabholkar [Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M.V.
 Dabholkar , (1975) 2 SCC 702] , a statutory
 authority would have a legal interest in
 appeals against orders made by it in discharge
 of its regulatory duty." (Emphasis supplied)

 8.4. The High Court of Bombay in AAKASH
 EDUCATIONAL SERVICES LIMITED v. LATA
 BHAGWANJI SHAH6 while considering a case where the
 defendant seeks deletion from the array of parties on the
 score that there is no cause of action projected against the
 said defendant, holds as follows: ".... .... .... 19. In light of the aforesaid submissions, the
 core question that arises for consideration is, whether the impleadment of Defendant Nos. 2 and 3 as party-Defendants is justifiable. A
 useful reference, in this context, can be made
 to the relevant provisions contained in the
 Code. .... .... .... 24. A conjoint reading of the aforesaid
 provisions would indicate that, though the
 plaintiff is dominus litis and may implead the
 parties as defendants to the suit, against
 whom the plaintiff perceives to have cause of
 action, the plaintiff does not have an
 unfettered choice. The primary question that
 comes to the fore is, whether a party already
 impleaded or sought to be added, is a
 necessary or proper party, to the suit. A person
 who has no semblance of right or interest in 6 2025 SCC OnLine Bom 4194 - 25 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 the subject matter of the suit, nor the decree
 passed in the suit has the effect of affecting his
 rights or liabilities, can be impleaded as a party
 defendant to the suit. The general rule
 of dominus litis is thus subject to the
 provisions of Order 1 Rule 10(2) of the Code,
 which provides for striking out or addition of
 the parties. 25. It is well recognized that, the deletion or
 addition of the parties to the suit is not a
 matter of initial jurisdiction, but that of judicial
 discretion. Such discretion is required to be
 exercised keeping in view all the
 circumstances. Under the provisions of sub-
 Rule 2 of Rule 10 of Order 1, the Court is
 empowered, at any stage of the suit, to add or
 delete a party. From the phraseology of sub-
 Rule (2) of Rule 10 of Order 1, it becomes
 evident that, the person who can be added as a
 party to the suit ought to be either (a) a
 person who ought to have been joined as
 Plaintiff or defendnat, but not impleaded or (b)
 any person whose presence before the Court
 may be necessary in order to effectively and
 completely adjudicate upon, and settle the
 questions involved in the suit. 26. In the case of 'Mumbai International Airport Private
 Limited v. Regency Convention Centre and Hotels Private
 Limited [(2010) 7 SCC 417] the Supreme Court, expounded the
 distinction between a necessary party and a proper party in the
 following term: 27. The Supreme Court also expounded the nature of the
 jurisdiction exercised by the Court in the matter of
 addition or deletion of the parties under Order 1 Rule
 10(2) as under: 28. Thus, the essential test to add a person as a
 party defendant to the suit, is whether in the
 absence of such person no effective decree can be
 passed in the suit; meaning thereby a necessary
 party, or though no relief is claimed against a
 person, the presence of such person, would assist
 the Court in completely and effectually adjudicating
 the suit; meaning thereby a proper party. The
 concept of joinder of a party is inextricably
 interlinked with the joinder of causes of action. A - 27 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 party can be added to a proceeding, if there is any
 cause of action against such party as well. 29. A profitable reference, in this context, can be made to
 the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of 'Iswar
 Bhai C. Patel alias Bachu Bhai Patel v. Harihar
 Behera2 wherein the Supreme Court enunciated that the
 simple principle is that, a person is made a party in a
 suit because there is a cause of action against him
 and when causes of action are joined, the parties
 are also joined. The observations in para Nos. 11 to 14
 read as under: ....... ....... ....... 30. In view of the aforesaid exposition of law,
 whenever defendant seeks deletion of his name
 from the array of the defendants, the Court is
 required to pose unto itself the question as to
 whether the said defendant can be said to be either
 a necessary or proper party to the suit. The said
 determination would, undoubtedly, hinge upon the
 averments in the plaint and the documents annexed
 with it. If there is slightest material to show the
 existence of a cause of action against such person,
 he cannot be deleted from the array of the
 defendants for the only reason, that, the plaintiff
 does not claim whole of relief against such person.
 However, the necessary nexus between the
 defendants and the lis ought to be, prima facie,
 evident. 31. The nature of the Suit also assumes material
 significance. In the case at hand the Plaintiffs seek
 to primarily recover the unpaid licence fee and
 damages for alleged unlawful occupation of the Suit
 premises and also for having allegedly caused
 damage thereto. The Suits are in relation to the
 recovery of licence fee. The Suits broadly fall in the
 category of Suits for recovery of possession and
 licence fee of the demised premises." (Emphasis supplied) - 28 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 The High Court of Bombay holds that whenever the
 defendant seeks deletion of his name from the array
 of defendants, the Court is required to pose on to
 itself the question as to whether the said defendant
 can be said to be either a necessary or a proper party
 to the suit. The Court further holds that, the decision
 would necessarily hinge on the averments in the
 plaint and the documents annexed to it. Further, the
 Court holds that, though the plaintiff is dominus litis
 to the suit and may implead the parties as
 defendants to the suit, against whom the plaintiff
 perceives to have cause of action, the plaintiff does
 not have an unfettered choice. LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS IN SUITS AGAINST A
 COMPANY: - 30 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 (Emphasis supplied)

 9.2. Again, in ACE INNOVATORS (P) LTD. v. HEWLETT
 PACKARD INDIA SALES (P) LTD.8 , the High Court of
 Delhi holds that under Section 230 of the Indian Contract
 Act, 1872, the agent of the defendant Company who has
 not entered into a contract with the plaintiff Company
 cannot be sued for damages for breach of contract.
 Further while deciding an application under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC , the averments in the plaint
 have to be read by way of a demurrer. The High
 Court observes as follows: Presumption of contract to contrary. - Such a
 contract shall be presumed to exist in the following
 cases:-- 6. It is thus evident that in terms of Section 230 of
 the Contract Act, in the absence of any contract to
 that effect an agent cannot personally enforce
 contracts entered into by him on behalf of his
 principal, nor is he personally bound by him. Further
 there is no presumption to the contrary as the name
 of the principal is known to the Plaintiff. In the
 present case, the agent, that is Defendant No. 3 has
 not entered into the contract with the Plaintiff and
 thus cannot be sued for the damages for breach of
 contract by Defendant No. 1. In Prem Nath Motors
 Limited (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court held: "7. Section 230 of the Contract Act categorically
 makes it clear that an agent is not liable for the
 acts of a disclosed principal subject to a contract of
 the contrary. No such contract to the contrary has
 been pleaded. An identical issue was considered by
 this Court in the case of Marine Contained Services
 South (P) Ltd. v. Go Go Garments , where a similar
 order passed under the Consumer Protection Act was set aside by this Court. It was held that by
 virtue of Section 230 the agent could not be sued
 when the principal had been disclosed. A similar view
 has been expressed by a three judge Bench of this Court
 in Civil Appeal 6653/2005 arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.
 19562/2004." This court in Tristar Consultants (supra) held: 7. In the facts of the case, though the plaint is not liable
 to be rejected for mis-joinder of Defendant No. 3 however,
 the Defendant No. 3 is liable to be deleted from the array
 of parties as he is neither a proper party nor a necessary
 party. Application is disposed of deleting the Defendant No. 3
 from the array of parties." (Emphasis supplied)

 9.3. The Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat in PASCHIM GUJARAT VIJ CO. LTD. v. MANIBHADRA - 33 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 ISPAT LTD.9, while upholding the order of the trial
 Court, striking out the Directors from the array of
 parties on the ground that, Directors cannot be held
 liable for acts of the Company and due to lack of cause
 of action in the plaint, discusses the Doctrine of Lifting
 of Corporate Veil and observes as follows: 26. However, with the passage of time
 inroads have been made into the aforesaid
 legal principle that the company is a legal
 entity distinct from its shareholders and
 directors and certain exceptions have been
 carved out. One such inroad is commonly
 described as the lifting or piercing of the
 corporate veil. This has been succinctly put by
 the Supreme Court in Tata Engineering and
 Locomotive Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar , (1964) 6
 SCR 885, as follows: ...... ...... ...... 28. The question therefore in the instant
 case is - Can the corporate veil be lifted in
 the present case to reveal the identity of the
 person or persons behind it? The plaintiff in
 its plaint has not made out any such case to
 justify the piercing of the corporate veil. The
 plaint is absolutely silent as regards the
 personal liability of the Directors to pay the
 dues of the plaintiff. There is not even a
 whisper in the plaint in this regard. 29. Ultimately, the moot question which needs to
 be answered is, whether the respondents nos. 2,
 3 and 4 herein as the Directors could be said to
 have made themselves personally liable for the
 dues of the company. 30. The Delhi High Court, in the case of Tristar
 Consultants v. Customer Services India Pvt. Ltd. ,
 reported in (2007) 139 DLT 688, has explained - 36 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 the position of law. The observations made in
 paragraphs 28, 29 and 30 of the said judgment read thus: ...... ...... ...... 32. It is not in dispute that in the case at hand,
 there is no assertion in the plaint that the
 respondents nos. 2, 3 and 4 as Directors of the
 company had extended any contract of guarantee
 or had even undertaken to make payment to the
 plaintiff company of the dues towards the
 electricity charges. 33. It is also well settled that fraud, if alleged,
 must be pleaded meticulously and in detail and
 proved to the hilt. A mere assertion that fraud has
 been committed is neither here nor there. Precisely
 and in what manner fraud has been committed is
 required to be delineated by the party alleging the - 37 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 same if the plea of fraud is to be made the basis of a
 decree against the other party. Bald assertions and
 vague allegations will not be countenanced by the
 courts. Rule 4 of Order VI specifically lays down that
 the particulars of the fraud alleged (with dates and
 items, if necessary) shall be stated in the plaint. ...... ...... ...... 35. A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court, in the
 case of Meekin Transmission Limited (supra), has dealt with
 the issue exhaustively. The decision of the Allahabad High
 Court is under the following heads: 36. We may quote the relevant observations made in the
 aforesaid decision thus: "Concept of Companies - History of
 Incorporation of Companies and relevant statutes: NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 Directors which is responsible for the proper
 management of the Company. There are several
 duties and obligations of the Board of Directors
 and Directors of the Company which are
 enshrined in detail in various provisions of the
 Act. The Directors are paid remuneration for
 services they render but cannot claim
 remuneration as of right and, instead, if it is
 provided in the memorandum or Article of
 Association, they would be entitled for such
 remuneration as provided therein. The company
 is a separate entity qua Directors also inasmuch
 as, the Directors represent the company and may
 enter into a contract of employment with himself
 in his individual capacity and simultaneously
 acting for company. ...... ...... ...... 32. In brief, we can cull out the following: Doctrine of Piercing of Veil (Lifting the
 Corporate Veil) : Exception to the Law of
 Separate Entity: Such lifting of veil is also has to implemented
 whenever a statute so provided. However, it is not a
 matter of routine affair. It needs a detailed
 investigation into the facts and affairs of the company
 to find out as to whether the veil of the corporate
 personality needs to be lifted in a particular case.
 After lifting the veil, in a case where it is so
 required, it is not always that the Directors
 would automatically be responsible but again it is
 a matter of investigation as to who is/are the
 person/s responsible and liable who had
 occasioned for application of said doctrine. Initial burden for application of the doctrine
 of "Piercing of Veil": - 41 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR 42. The other facet of the aforesaid proposition of law is
 that there must be a cause of action disclosed against a
 person impleaded as a defendant. 43. The learned counsel for the petitioner did not
 dispute that in the plaint there is no assertion against
 the Directors of the company that they personally
 undertook or agreed to clear any liability of the
 defendant outstanding against the plaintiff. No
 guarantee or indemnification has been pleaded. But,
 the submission of the learned counsel for the
 petitioner is that every Director acts as the agent of a
 company and, therefore, as an agent, a Director
 would be personally liable if he has acted on behalf of
 the company. 44. The learned counsel for the petitioner has relied
 upon a decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Ram
 Parshad v. Commissioner of Income Tax , reported in (1972)
 2 SCC 696 : (1973) 1 SCR 985. The following passage has
 been relied upon: 45. It is a settled law that a company is a juristic
 person. Therefore, a company has to act through a
 living human being. Collectively, the decisions on
 behalf of the company are taken by the Board of
 Directors of a company. An individual Director has no
 power to act on behalf of a company of which he is a
 Director, unless there is a specific resolution of the
 Board of Directors of the company giving specific
 power to him/her or, where the Articles of company
 confer such a power. - 42 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR 46. The Directors of companies have been
 described as agents, trustees or representatives of
 the company because of the fact vis-a-vis the
 company they act in a fiduciary capacity. They
 perform acts and duties for the benefit of the
 company. Thus, the Directors are the agents of the
 company to the extent they have been authorized to
 perform certain acts on behalf of the company. But
 the Directors of a company owe no fiduciary or
 contractual duties or any duty of care to third parties
 who deal with the company. This distinction has been
 ignored by the learned counsel for the petitioner. 47. The Directors of a company are referred to as
 the agents of the company in the context of their
 fiduciary duty to the company and, therefore, if they
 derive any personal benefit while purporting to act on
 behalf of the company, they will be liable to the
 company and its shareholders. But the Directors
 cannot be treated as acting as the agents of the
 company in the conventional sense of an agent, vis-a-
 vis third parties. 48. As conventionally understood, a person acts as
 an agent for a principal and represents the principal
 before the third parties. Such contracts which are
 concluded by the agent on behalf of his principal with
 third parties would bind the principal to the third
 party. ...... ...... ...... 50. A perusal of Section 230 of the Indian Contract Act,
 1872, shows that unless an agent personally binds himself,
 an agent is not personally liable for contracts entered into
 by him on behalf of his principal. We may note an
 exception. The exception is that where an agent has
 contracted on behalf of a principal who is unnamed and
 undisclosed, on properly constituted pleadings and on so
 establishing, such an agent who acts on behalf of an
 undisclosed principal may be personally liable for a contract
 entered into by him. 51. To interpret the law as is sought to be
 projected by the petitioner would mean negation of
 the concept of a company being limited by its liability - 43 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 as per the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
 the company. Other than where Directors have made
 themselves personally liable, i.e. by way of
 guarantee, indemnity etc., liabilities of Directors of a
 company under the common law are confined to cases
 of malfeasance and misfeasance, i.e. where they have
 been guilty of tort towards those to whom they owe a
 duty of care, i.e. discharge fiduciary obligations.
 Additionally, qua third parties, where Directors have
 committed tort. To the third party, they may be
 personally liable. 52. For example, by making false representations
 about a company, a Director induces a third party to
 advance a loan to the company. On proof of
 fraudulent misrepresentation, a Director may be
 personally liable to the third party. But this liability
 would not flow from a contract but would flow in an
 action at tort. The tort being of misrepresentation of
 inducement and causing injury to the third party
 having induced the third party to part with money.
 (see Tristar Consultants v. Customer Services India
 Pvt. Ltd. , reported in (2007) 139 DLT 688). 53. We are also not impressed by the submission of Ms.
 Bhaya as regards the issue no. 9 framed by the Commercial
 Court. 54. We are afraid, such an issue could not have been
 framed. We fail to understand on what basis the
 Commercial Court has framed the issue no. 9. The term
 'issue' in a civil court mean, 'a disputed question relating to
 the rival contentions in a suit'. An issue in a case is a
 'material proposition' (means directly relevant and vital
 statement which affirms or denies) of fact or of law. The
 term 'material proposition' refers to the 'cause of action' of
 a case. The 'cause of action' is a bundle of essential facts
 when considered against the law applicable to such facts,
 gives the plaintiff a right to seek some relief against the
 defendant in the case. The issues are to be framed by the
 court from the following sources: - 44 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 (2) Allegations made in the pleadings/interrogatories;
 (3) The contents of documents produced by both the
 parties. 55. In the case on hand, as discussed in this
 judgment, it is not the case of the plaintiff that the
 Directors are also personally responsible for the
 payment of the dues of the Board. It is not even their
 case in the entire plaint in this regard. By merely
 saying something in the prayer clause with regard to
 the personal liability of the Directors the issue no. 9
 could not have been framed. ...... ...... ...... 59. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we have reached
 to the conclusion that we should not interfere with the
 impugned order passed by the court below in exercise of
 our supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the
 Constitution of India. ...... ...... ...... 62. If a particular defendant has no connection with the
 cause of action pleaded against the other defendants, he is
 certainly a person improperly joined entitling him to make
 an application to have his name struck out. One of the
 grounds on which such an application can be made is that
 the plaint discloses no cause of action against the
 defendant. An application may not be maintainable under
 Order 7 Rule 11(a) of the CPC for a variety of reasons. For
 instance, in the present case, it may not be maintainable as
 the Directors are not the only defendants. The suit against
 the defendant no. 1, i.e. the company, must proceed to
 trial. There is no application by the company under Order 7
 Rule 11 of the CPC . In such circumstances, the law is that
 the proper course is to strike out the names of the
 defendants against whom there is no cause of action.
 However, a plea that the plaint discloses no cause of action
 is essentially one on a demurrer. Such a plea ought to be
 accepted only when the court comes to a conclusion that
 even if the averments in the plaint are proved, the plaintiff
 would not be entitled to the reliefs claimed. The court must,
 therefore, presume that the facts stated in the plaint are
 correct. In view of the drastic consequences of upholding
 such a plea, it is axiomatic that it ought to be accepted only
 in clear cases. Moreover, while considering an
 application for striking out the name of a defendant - 45 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 on the ground that the plaint discloses no cause of
 action against him, the court ought to act with great
 circumspection and even greater restraint. (Emphasis supplied)

 9.4. Yet again, the High Court of Delhi in SANUJ
 BHATLA v. MANU MAHESHWARI, while observing
 that the Directors of a Company cannot be held
 personally liable in the absence of allegations of fraud or
 misrepresentation in the averments of the plaint, holds
 as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 9.6. Recently, the High Court of Delhi in SHUSHANT
 MUTTREJA v. RAM KUMAR RATHI10 , held that while
 deciding an application under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC ,
 the trial Court ought to examine whether the allegations
 are primarily against the Company or there is any
 personal liability of the Directors of the Company. The
 High Court observes as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 TORT OF INDUCEMENT OF BREACH OF CONTRACT: 10. The other submission is that these petitioners
 should remain in the array of defendants for the tort of
 inducement of breach of contract. To bring home the tort
 of breach of contract what would be the requirements is
 recognized by the High Court of Delhi in the case of AMWAY INDIA ENTERPRISES (PRIVATE) LIMITED v.
 1MG TECHNOLOGIES (PRIVATE) LIMITED 11 wherein it
 has been held as follows: ".... .... .... 323. The tort of inducement of breach of contract traces
 back its origin to the 19th century. The tort is enforced in
 a manner in which performance of contractual obligations
 are insisted upon even by third parties, who are not privy
 to the contracts. Under this tort, initially malice was
 required to be established for imputing liability.
 However, as Salmond and Heuston 5 puts it, the tort
 is now broad enough to include any interference
 with contractual relationships. The relevant extract
 is set out herein below: 324. The interference with contractual
 relationships need not only be direct, but it could
 also be indirect interference. As held in Aasia
 Industrial Technologies (supra), if any party
 procures breach of a contract, that is sufficient to
 constitute inducement of the breach, and make them
 liable under the tort. The relevant portion of the
 judgment of the Bombay High Court, is as under: 325. In Balailal Mukherjee & Co. (P) Ltd. v. Sea
 Traders Pvt. Ltd. , 1990 SCC OnLine Cal 55 another case
 which recognised this tort, a ld. Single Judge of the
 Calcutta High Court, observed as under: 326. After reviewing the case laws, the Court held
 that the conduct of one of the brothers, who was a partner
 in the partnership firm, to induce breach by a Japanese
 customer of its contract with the firm, constituted a tort
 and the injunction was granted. 327. In the context of the present cases, e-
 commerce platforms such as Amazon, Flipkart and
 Snapdeal, carry out substantial sales of consumer
 products from their platforms. They have invested
 heavily in logistics and creation of a large network of
 suppliers, third party service providers, delivery
 personnel and warehousing facility, logistical
 support, etc. The said parties ought to be conscious
 of the sellers, whom they permit to operate on their
 platforms, and the kind of products that are being
 sold. They are not merely passive non-interfering
 platforms, but provide a large number of value-
 added services to the consumers and users. Upon
 being notified by the Plaintiffs of unauthorised sales
 on their platforms, they have a duty to ensure that
 the contractual relationships are not unnecessarily
 interfered with by their businesses. In the case of
 Amazon for example, the Intellectual Property
 policy, excluded products' list etc., clearly shows
 that there is a policy in place, that only authorised
 sellers can put up their products on the Amazon
 platform for sale, with the consent of the brand
 owners. The notices issued by the Plaintiffs, clearly,
 notified the platforms, who were offering the Plaintiffs'
 products, inter alia, as under - ....... ...... ...... 329. The tort of inducement of breach of
 contract and tortious interference with contracts is a
 well-recognised tort. However, the application of the
 said tort has to evolve with the changing practices of
 society including the commercial world. E-commerce
 platforms have an obligation, upon being notified, to
 ensure that they do not induce breach of contracts in any
 manner. The least that ought to have been done is
 adherence to their own Intellectual Property Protection
 Policies and other policies such as 'Excluded products' list', - 52 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 'Banned Products' List', and 'Terms of Use'. The internal
 policies themselves being clear, the non-insistence of
 Plaintiff's consent from the sellers who wish to display the
 Plaintiffs' products on the platform, and non-insistence of
 authorization or documents showing that the seller on the
 platform was duly authorised to sell, by itself, constitutes
 inducement of the breach. Moreover, even after being
 notified the platforms refused to take down the products
 and insisted that only if the Plaintiffs establish that the
 products are counterfeit, they would be taken down." (Emphasis supplied)

 The High Court of Delhi in the afore-quoted judgment
 holds that interference with contractual relationship need
 not be direct, but it could also be indirect interference. If
 any party indulges in breach of contract, that is sufficient
 to constitute inducement of the breach. But there must be
 adequate material to demonstrate inducement for breach
 of contract. In the absence of adequate material, breach of
 contract or its inducement is unavailable. 10.1. In an earlier judgment, the High Court of
 Delhi in ICC DEVELOPMENT (INTERNATIONAL)
 LTD. v. ARVEE ENTERPRISES12 , while discussing
 the essential elements for the tort of breach of
 contract by inducement, holds that in the absence of
 adequate material on record, the plea of inducement
 to breach the contract is not sustainable. The High
 Court observes as follows: NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 absence of adequate material on record, the plea
 of inducement to breach the contract is also not
 sustainable. The terms and conditions with regard to
 the sale of tickets to the event, now pleaded by the
 plaintiff, did not form part and parcel of the agreement
 between the authorised agent of the Event and the
 defendants. The question whether the said conditions
 were known to the defendants or not, cannot be decided
 at this stage. This is a question of fact which can be
 determined only after the trial. ( Lonrho Ltd. v. Shell
 Petroleum Co. Ltd. , (1981) 2 ALL ER 456) and Merkur
 Island Shipping Corp. v. Laughton, (1983) 1 ALL ER 334." (Emphasis supplied)

 10.2. Prior to the afore-quoted judgments of the High
 Court of Delhi, the High Court of Bombay in its earlier
 judgment in the case of AMBIENCE SPACE SELLERS
 LTD. v. ASIA INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PVT. LTD.13,
 holds as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 The High Court of Bombay in the afore-quoted judgment
 observes that the tort of inducing breach of contract, as
 developed in England, is that if the act of a third party,
 either by persuasion, inducement or procurement results
 in breach of a contract, the third party would have
 committed an actionable interference with the contract.
 The act of the third party may be against the will of both - 55 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 and without the knowledge of either, but it must
 however, be with the knowledge of the contract. 11. On the bedrock of the principles laid down by the
 Apex Court and several High Courts in the afore-quoted
 judgments what would unmistakably emerge is that the
 role of the defendants must be seen by the concerned
 Court when an application is filed seeking impleadment
 of a defendant or deletion of a defendant and it is also to
 be seen whether the party who is sought to be
 impleaded is a necessary or party or a necessary
 witness. Further, Directors or employees/agents of a
 company cannot be held liable for acts of the company
 unless the plaint averments reveal that the Directors
 have committed fraud, misrepresentation or a tort of
 inducement of breach of contract. 12. What is to be seen now, is whether the order dated
 19-07-2024, of the concerned Court, rejecting the
 applications of the petitioners under Order 1 Rule 10 of
 the CPC , filed for deletion from the array of defendants,
 can be sustained in light of the law laid down as
 discussed above. The order reads as follows: NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 adopted by the other defendants, it is clear that, some
 of the defendants were the Ex-employees of the
 defendant No.1 company, there are some Agreements
 between the plaintiff company and some of the
 defendants. The 2nd defendant is the Managing Director
 of the defendant No.1 company. The 1st defendant
 initiated a NDA i.e. Non Disclosure Agreement and
 MSPA i.e. Master Services Partner Agreement with the
 plaintiff company. The 1st defendant initiated the H1B
 MSA Agreement on 10.06.2023 for business
 collaboration regarding the deployment of H1B
 candidates and cunningly obtained the plaintiff's
 signature. It is forthcoming in the plaint averments.
 The defendants have denied these allegations made in
 the plaint. 51. I have gone through the decisions relied
 upon by the learned counsel for the defendant
 Nos.3 to 24. The principles laid down in these
 decisions are well founded. I have gone through
 the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel
 for the plaintiff company. The principles laid
 down in these decisions are well founded. These
 decisions come to the aid of the plaintiff
 company at this juncture of the suit. Since the
 defendant Nos.3 to 24 have filed their defence.
 Therefore, a full dressed trial is required, without
 the presence of these defendant Nos.3 to 24, the
 suit may not be adjudicated effectively.
 Therefore, in the light the discussions made
 supra, the defendant Nos.3 to 24 have not made
 out grounds to delete them from the suit.
 Accordingly, I answer the Point No.1 in the
 negative. 52. Point No.2: In view of the discussions made
 supra, I made the following: NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 them; they not being signatories to any of the
 agreements and merely being Directors of the Company,
 they cannot be permitted to undergo the rigmarole of
 judicial proceedings. As against petitioner No.1 Company,
 there are specific allegations in the plaint against the said
 company and is required for effectively adjudicating the
 matter and providing necessary relief's as claimed by the
 plaintiff. 14. In the light of absence of pleadings with regard to the
 specific role of petitioner Nos. 2 to 17, the order of the
 concerned Court which rejects the applications not
 withstanding their roles as narrated above, cannot be
 sustained. A case of tortious inducement of breach of
 contract having been made out against petitioner No.1
 Company, the Petitioner No.1 Company does not deserve
 to be deleted from the array of parties. In that light, the
 applications under Order 1 to 10 of the CPC , filed by
 petitioner Nos.2 to 17, ought to be allowed. 17. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Petitioners Nos. 2 to 17 who are defendant Nos. 4, 5
 and 10 to 24 before the concerned Court stand
 deleted from the array of parties/defendants. (iii) Any observation made in the course of the
 order is only for the purpose of consideration of the
 impugned order qua the applications under Order 1
 Rule 10 of the CPC . The observations in no way
 influence pending proceedings before the concerned
 Court qua the remaining parties. - 61 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

 Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2025 also stand disposed". 6. In the instant case, even according to the plaint

averments, except stating that the defendants No.3 to 5

were directors who were in charge of the day to day affairs

of the defendant No.1-company, there are no separate

allegations made against defendants No.3 to 5 so as to

make them personally liable to answer the claim as against

the defendant No.1. 7. Under these circumstances, in the light of the

principles laid down by this Hon'ble Court in the case of

Maxlinear Technologies Pvt. Ltd., I am of the considered

opinion that the Commercial Court fell in error in refusing to

delete defendants No.3 to 5 from the array of parties to the

suit. 8. Insofar as defendant No.2 is concerned, he has

already been described as the managing director of

defendant No.1-company and as representing the

defendant No.1-company as can be seen from the cause - 62 - NC: 2026:KHC:7370 WP No. 10331 of 2024 HC-KAR

title to the plaint and it would be just and appropriate to

continue the suit as against defendant No.2 also by deleting

defendants No.3 to 5 from the array of parties to the suit. 9. Under these circumstances, I am of the view that

the impugned order passed by the trial Court deserves to

be set aside and IA.No.2 deserves to be allowed only

insofar as defendants No.3 to 5 are concerned. 10. In result, I proceed to pass the following: