SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Man these 'pan card details de do job ke liye scams' suck the big one
DATE: 2022-02-23
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/szo6yv/man_these_pan_card_details_de_do_job_ke_liye/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know I've just joined this page today but I've been using reddit since a friend convinced me to give it a try. I have posted previously (in general that is) and just wanted to get this scam out in the market. Even if some of you may know about this but a larger audience could benefit nonetheless. So I was approached twice by different job consulting agencies. Their websites were legitimate but their glassdoor reviews were shady somehow. I was from the beginning asked about my pan card details and told that this is needed to apply at TCS. Now I don't care which company reaches out, as long as it's not my CV, I'm not willing to share any personal information unless it comes after a job offer in hand, so the consultants demand for pan number sets my alarm bells ringing. I had a discussion at home since my uncle was in HR for more than a decade and he said that as a policy they don't ask for personal info at the onset. Only CV and a background check is done. I ended up rejecting the first consultant. 

When another one reached out to me a few days ago, I got suspicious as to why is TCS mandating people to gather info. I had read up online that there could be scams but there were mixed results. This time I did some digging around and came across a tata group page with a disclaimer that they do not ask for money or info. But to confirm my suspicion, I reached out to the concerned hiring manager at TCS whose name was mentioned in the job description as someone that would apparently be the person I'd report to (side note - the name slip up could have been a big mistake on the apparent consultant's part). Long story short, I reached out to the gentlemen on LinkedIn asking if this is legitimate and he said that this is a scam and told me to not share my pan card details with anybody. I ended up sharing the consultants name with him in case they'd like to take some action against the company. 

Moral of the story: even if you're really desperate for a job don't share any, I repeat, any damn personal info to anyone. 

P. S. I do have a job, rather I freelance with one of the big4 so I'm not in a desperate of a job but there could be people who could be preyed upon hence this was necessary to share.