Protean eGov Technologies’ latest quarterly earnings reveal a notable decline in the issuance of new Permanent Account Number (PAN) cards for the first time in at least four years. In Q4 FY25, the company issued 1.1 crore new PAN cards—10 lakh fewer than in the same quarter last year. Over the entire fiscal year, Protean issued 4.4 crore PAN cards, marking a 12% drop from the previous year’s 5 crore issuance.

This accounts for 63% of all new PAN cards issued by the Income Tax Department, which also reported a decline from 8.7 crore last year to 6.9 crore this year. According to Protean’s investor presentation , this is the first overall decline in PAN issuance in recent years, largely attributed to the election period that slowed the rollout of new government schemes, reducing demand nationwide.

Paperless PAN applications also saw a jump this year, accounting for 53% of all applications, over 48% last year.

On May 20, Protean informed the stock exchange that it had not been selected by the Income Tax Department to carry out the revamp of systems handling the allotment, updating, and correction of PAN data, as part of the PAN 2.0 initiative. This announcement caused the company’s shares to plunge by 20%.

Protean is a technology company that supports various government identity projects and social welfare schemes. It has a mandate from the Income Tax Department to operate PAN centres and process new PAN applications. The company also serves as the Central Recordkeeping Agency (CRA) for pension schemes like the National Pension System (NPS) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY).

Additionally, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has appointed the company as a Registrar, responsible for enrolling new citizens into the Aadhaar database.

Protean eGov Technologies earned Rs 238.6 crore in revenue on a consolidated basis in Q4 FY2024–25. This is a nominal increase of around 1.5% from last year’s revenue of Rs 235 crore in the same quarter. The company earned a profit of Rs 20.4 crore during the quarter, a 5% year-over-year (YoY) increase from Rs 19.2 crore. However, profit declined by 11% on a quarter-over-quarter (QoQ) basis.

During the quarter, Protean authenticated 14.2 crore Aadhaar and conducted online verification of 91.5 crore PAN cards.

Over the year, it added 1.3 crore new subscribers to its pension subscriber base, registering a total growth of 14%. This included more than 2,500 corporates. The company continues to hold a dominant market share of 97% across both the National Pension System (NPS) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY).

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event