1. The greatest challenge before the judiciary today is the
frivolous litigation. The judicial system in the country is choked with
false claims and such litigants are consuming Courts' time for a
wrong cause. False claims are a huge strain on the judicial system. In Subrata Roy Sahara v. Union of India , (2014) 8 SCC 470, J.S.
Khehar, J. observed that the Indian judicial system is grossly afflicted
with frivolous litigation and ways and means need to be evolved to
deter litigants from their compulsive obsession towards senseless and
ill-considered claims. Relevant portion of the said judgment is as
under: 2. In the present case, the respondent is a lessee in respect of
11,000 sq. mtrs. land near Mumbai International Airport for a period
of 30 years from 1st April, 1994 to 30th March, 2024. On 13th August,
2008, i.e., after about 14 years of the commencement of the lease, the
respondent invoked the arbitration and raised a claim to seek
discharge from the liability to pay Royalty of Minimum Guaranteed
Amount [hereinafter referred to as "Royalty (MGA)"] under the lease
on the ground that it has become commercially unviable to construct
the Hotel due to recession in the hotel industry and therefore, the
clause with respect to payment of Royalty (MGA) has frustrated under Section 56 of the Contract Act. 3. The learned Arbitrator allowed the respondent's claim and
declared that the payment of Royalty (MGA) by the respondent has
become impossible under Section 56 of the Contract Act w.e.f. 01st
June, 2008 and, therefore, the parties may enter into a new contract.
As a result, the respondent is continuing the possession but is
discharged from the liability of paying Royalty (MGA). According to
the petitioner, the respondent's liability as on 31st May, 2016 along
with interest thereon has crossed Rs.258 crores. 4. The petitioner has challenged the award dated 29th August,
2012 under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act on
various grounds inter alia: 4.2. The impugned award is also against the well settled law that Section 56 of the Contract Act is not applicable to leases. If the
payment of Royalty (MGA) had became unviable, the respondent had
the option to surrender the lease but the respondent could not claim
that the clause requiring the payment of Royalty (MGA) has
frustrated. 4.3. The learned Arbitrator has re-written the contract which is not
permissible in law. The learned Arbitrator was bound by the terms of
the contract, but he has gone beyond the contract by discharging the
respondent from the liability to pay the Royalty (MGA) and directing
the parties to re-negotiate the contract. 4.4. The statement of claim instituted by respondent is gross abuse
and misuse of process of law. The statement of claim was not even
maintainable in law and the learned Arbitrator ought to have rejected
the same at the outset. 5. Factual matrix

5.1. The petitioner licensed 11,000 sq. meters of land near Mumbai
International Airport to the respondent in 1982. On respondent's
request, the license was converted into a lease and a lease deed dated
07th February, 1996 was executed by the parties for a period of 30
years w.e.f. 01st April, 1994 to 31st March, 2024. Under the lease
deed, the respondent was required to pay the lease money as well as
the Royalty (MGA). Relevant clauses of the lease deed are as under: - Progress of construction shall be reported to the
 Authority quarterly, after furnishing schedule of
 execution. 6(a) Construction on the allotted land will commence within a
 period of 36 months. In case it is delayed, an additional
 charge of 50% of the lease rent will be levied for the next
 year i.e. 4th year. The allotment of land made under this
 lease will be cancelled if construction is not started
 within five years. xxx xxx xxx
 6(e) The licencee shall construct the Hotel Block consisting of
 150 rooms as per approved plans. xxx xxx xxx 13. In the event of failure to pay the lease money and other
 amounts herein provided from on the respective due
 dates, simple interest at the rate of 18% (Eighteen
 percent) per annum shall be payable on all delayed
 payments without prejudice to the Authority's other
 rights and remedies. Interest rate can be revised upwards
 if there is upward revision in the bank rate and such
 upward revision will be effected after giving 30 (thirty)
 days notice to the Lessee. xxx xxx xxx OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 5 of 95 17. The lessee shall observe at all times without any question
 or dispute all rules, regulations and directions issued
 from time to time by the Authority and/or by Director
 General of Civil Aviation and such other authorities
 having jurisdiction over the locality wherein the premises
 are situated which are intended to safeguard or facilitate
 the use of the locality by airport or for any other
 purpose. xxx xxx xxx 26. If the lessee shall desire to determine this agreement it
 shall give the authority 180 days clear notice in writing
 of such desire and shall upto the time of such
 determination pay the amounts due and perform and
 observe the covenants on his part hereinbefore
 contained, then immediately on the expiration of such
 notice this lease shall cease but without prejudice to the
 rights and remedies to which the Authority has become
 entitled in respect of any anticipated claim or breach of
 the covenant." (Emphasis supplied)
5.2. By a supplemental agreement dated 07th February, 1996, the
parties agreed to Royalty (MGA) according to Schedule A or 7.5% of
the gross turnover of the new hotel block, whichever was higher. A
three years' gestation period was allowed to the respondent from 01st
June, 1995 to 31st May, 1998 for construction of 150 rooms hotel
block on the leased land. Relevant terms of the supplemental
agreement are as under: (Emphasis supplied)

5.3. The Schedule attached to the supplemental agreement dated 07th
February, 1996 is reproduced hereunder: 5.4. On 10th June, 1996, the respondent submitted a plan for the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 7 of 95 proposed hotel to the petitioner in which the respondent amalgamated
the land in question with the lands already allotted by the petitioner on
lease and to use the same for the facilities like swimming pool and
other recreational facilities. The petitioner rejected this plan on 4th
September, 1996 and advised the respondent to submit a revised plan
for construction of 150 rooms as per the lease deed. On 23rd October,
1997, the respondent submitted revised Plan-II which was rejected by
the petitioner on 12th November, 1997 on the ground that the height of
the proposed building was above the maximum limit of 50 feet. On
20th November, 1997, the respondent submitted Plan-III which was
accepted by the petitioner on 21st November, 1997. However, the
respondent did not raise the construction as per the approved plan and
on 21st September, 1999, the respondent came up with a fresh Plan-IV
for construction of a hotel with 62.2 feet height which was rejected by
the petitioner on 21st January, 2000. 5.5. In the year 2002, disputes arose between the parties with
respect to the rejection of building plans and the liability to pay the
Royalty (MGA) which were referred to the sole arbitrator. Five issues
arose for consideration before the learned Arbitrator out of which
following three issues are relevant to be discussed here and are
reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)
5.6. Vide award dated 17th May, 2008, the learned Arbitrator held
the respondent liable to pay Rs.4,53,53,850/- towards lease money for
the period ending 31st March, 2008 and Rs.47,80,17,177/- towards
Royalty (MGA) for the period ending 30th June, 2007. Relevant
portion of the award is reproduce hereunder: still payable by the respondent to the claimant. Issue 3 and 4
 are therefore decided accordingly. xxx xxx xxx
 The claimant is entitled to recover from the respondent a sum of
 Rs.37,80,17,177/- on account of royalty/MGA with interest
 pendente lite with effect from 01.03.2007 till date at the rate of
 10% per annum with future interest at the same rate for the
 period of three months from today. He is also entitled to recover
 Rs.4,53,53,850/- on account of rent for the period 01.04.2005 to
 31.03.2008. If the two payments are not made within the period
 of three months, as prescribed herein, the lessor will be entitled
 to recover both the decreetal amounts, with interest upon the
 respective principal amounts at the rate of 15% per annum from
 today till their payment." (Emphasis supplied)

5.7. Both the parties accepted the arbitral award dated 17th May,
2008 which became final and binding on both the parties. 5.8. Vide letter dated 13th August, 2008, the respondent again
invoked the arbitration agreement contained in Clause 37 of the lease
agreement dated 07th February, 1996. The relevant portion of the
letter dated 13th August, 2008 is reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)
5.9. Vide letter dated 27th August, 2008, the respondent raised one
more dispute for being referred to the Arbitrator. The relevant portion
of the letter dated 27th August, 2008 is reproduced hereunder: - 5.10. On 12th January, 2009, the Chairman of Airport Authority of
India appointed a sole Arbitrator to adjudicate the claims mentioned in
the letters dated 13th August, 2008 and 27th August, 2008 and the
counter claims of the petitioner. 5.11. On 13th February, 2009, the sole Arbitrator entered upon
reference. On 02nd March, 2009, the respondent filed the Statement of
Claim before the learned Arbitrator in which the respondent sought
the following prayers: - (Emphasis supplied)
5.12. At the stage of final hearing of the proceedings before the
learned Arbitrator, the respondent conceded that the prayers made in
paras 26(i)(b), (c) and (d) of the Statement of Claim were outside the
scope of the existing arbitration agreement between the parties and,
therefore, the respondent gave up the said prayers. The respondent
however pressed the prayer made in para 26(i)(a) of the Statement of
Claim. 6. Award of the Arbitrator

6.1. Vide award dated 29th August, 2012, the learned Arbitrator
declared that the Minimum Guaranteed Amounts mentioned in
Schedule A of the supplemental agreement dated 07th February, 1996
had became impossible of performance w.e.f. 01st June, 2008 and,
therefore, the parties are at liberty to enter into a new appropriate
arbitration agreement and make a fresh arbitration seeking fixation of OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 12 of 95 amounts payable by the respondent. The conclusion of the Arbitrator
is reproduced hereunder: - (Emphasis supplied)
6.2. The reasons given by the learned Arbitrator in the award for
arriving at the above conclusion are as under: Bharat Nidhi Ltd., DLT 15 (1979) 152 (S.N.) (iii) D. Devi
 Bhagat v. J.B. Advani & Co., 76 Calcutta Weekly Notes; and ( iv) Smt. Sharda Mahajan v. Maple Leaf Trading
 International P. Ltd. , [2007] 139 Comp. Cas 718 (Delhi). xxx xxx xxx 33. There can be no doubt that the principles of res judicata
 are applicable to arbitration proceedings. However, the
 Claimant is relying on events that occurred subsequent to the
 passing of the Award dated 17th May, 2008 by Mr. Justice
 (Retd.) K.S. Sidhu and, hence, the earlier arbitration between
 the parties cannot operate as a bar to the present arbitration. xxx xxx xxx 38. To conclude, on the basis of the evidence led before me I
 have no difficulty in holding that the agreement between the
 parties that the Claimant would pay Minimum Guaranteed
 Amounts as stipulated in Schedule A to the Supplemental
 Agreement dated 7th February, 1996 became impossible of
 performance in a commercial sense on account of the
 frustrating events that occurred during the second half of 2008.
 This of course does not mean that the Claimant has ceased to
 be bound by the requirement of Clause 3 of the Lease Deed to
 pay an additional amount as minimum guaranteed amount
 which may be mutually agreed upon, and failing such mutual
 agreement, as determined by the Chairman of the Respondent.
 I agree with the submission of the learned counsel for the
 Claimant that there is nothing in Clause 3 of the Lease Deed to
 suggest that such mutual agreement or determination by the
 Chairman of the Respondent is a one-time act or event. Since I
 am holding that the Supplemental Agreement dated 7th
 February, 1996 has become impossible of performance from
 June 2008 on account of two supervening events over which the
 parties had no control, it will now be necessary for them to
 arrive at mutually acceptable figures, failing which the
 Chairman of the Respondent will have to determine what those
 Minimum Guaranteed Amounts should be. In the absence of a
 specific arbitration agreement between the parties to that effect,
 this Tribunal refrains from expressing any opinion on what OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 16 of 95 those figures should be. However, I am recording the fact that
 the learned counsel for the Claimant stated before me that the
 Claimant is not challenging the obligation of the Claimant to
 pay 7.5% of the gross turnover of the hotel as stipulated in
 Clause 1 of the Supplemental Agreement dated 7th February,
 1996, whatever be that amount." (Emphasis supplied) 7. Submissions on behalf of the petitioner

7.1. The doctrine of frustration as enacted in Section 56 of the
Contract Act has no application to leases. Reliance is placed on Raja Dhruv Dev Chand v. Raja Harmohinder Singh , AIR 1968 SC
1024. 7.2. Even assuming Section 56 applies to leases, it cannot be
invoked in case of commercial hardship. Frustration cannot be used
as a device to avoid a bad bargain. The contract between parties was
for a period of 30 years and it was but natural and foreseeable by both
the parties that there would be various economic turmoils over a
period as long as 30 years. Principle of frustration is not applicable
when the event is foreseeable but not foreseen. 7.3. The lease deed and the supplemental agreement (both entered
on the same date) clearly provide that the respondent is liable to pay
the Royalty (MGA). There is no liberty reserved to the Courts to
absolve a party from liability to perform his part of the contract,
merely because on account of certain turn of events, the performance
of the contract may become onerous. 7.4. The respondent's prayer that the Royalty (MGA) set out in the
supplemental agreement dated 7th February, 1996 is unconscionable,
arbitrary and an impossibility, is barred by well settled law that a
party cannot wriggle out of commercial contract on the plea that the
terms of contract are onerous. The respondent is a large company well OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 17 of 95 established in hotel business for many decades, and has access to the
best advice both commercial and legal. It entered into the lease deed
and the supplemental agreement with open eyes, acted upon the same,
and is therefore estopped from challenging the terms of the lease deed
and the supplemental agreement. It cannot approbate and reprobate.
Reliance is placed as Alopi Parshad v. Union of India (1960) 2 SCR
793, Panna Lal v. State of Rajasthan ( 1975) 2 SCC 633, State Bank of
Haryana v. Jage Ram ( 1980) 3 SCC 599, Har Shanker v. Deputy
Escise and Taxation Commissioner ( 1975) 1 SCC 737, Puravankara
Projects Ltd. v. Hotel Venus International ( 2007) 10 SCC 33, Bharti
Cellular Limited v. Union of India ( 2010) 10 SCC 174, Mumbai
International Airport Pvt. Ltd. v. Golden Chariot Airport JT 2010 ( 10)
SC 381 and Track Innovations India Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (2010) 170 DLT 424. 7.5. On failure of the respondent to pay the Royalty (MGA), the
petitioner commenced arbitration in which no plea of frustration or
impossibility was raised by the respondent in the said earlier
arbitration proceedings and the learned Arbitrator published an award
dated 17th May, 2008 in favour of the petitioner directing payment of
Royalty (MGA) in terms of the supplemental agreement. The pleas in
the subsequent arbitration are therefore a clear afterthought and an
abuse of the process. 7.6. Even though the arbitral award dated 17th May, 2008 was never
challenged, the respondent in the garb of the Mumbai terrorist attacks
and economic recession raised the same issues again on 13th August,
2008 and 27th August, 2008 by invoking clause 37 of the lease deed
dated 07th February, 1996 even though the same had already been
decided in the earlier arbitration proceedings. 7.7. The petitioner, on receiving the statement of claim, filed an
application under Section 16 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 on the ground that the learned Arbitrator had no jurisdiction to
decide or adjudicate the present dispute as the same had already been
adjudicated upon by the learned Arbitrator vide order dated 17th May,
2008. The respondent thereafter filed a reply of the aforesaid
application and the petitioner filed a rejoinder to the reply to the
respondent herein along with letter dated 17th June, 2004 received
under RTI from the Municipal Corporation of Mumbai stating therein
that the respondent had already utilized the FSI of the land allotted to
it by the petitioner for construction of Hotel Leela Galleria. 7.8. The petitioner also filed a detailed reply to the statement of
claim raising preliminary objections about the maintainability of the
arbitration as well as the fact that even after a gap of more than 13
years, the respondent had still not constructed any Hotel for which
land measuring 11,000 sqm. had been leased by the petitioner to the
respondent and FSI/FAR for the 11,000 sq.mtrs of land had been
already utilized by the respondent for additional construction on Hotel
Leela Galleria. The respondent's claim was just an eye wash to
escape the liability to pay Royalty (MGA) as per supplemental
agreement dated 07th February, 1996. 7.9. The learned Arbitrator dismissed the petitioner's application
under Section 16 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 on 22nd
April, 2010 without even considering the fact that the point of dispute
that is payment of Royalty (MGA) vis-à-vis grounds urged by the
respondent regarding payment of Royalty (MGA) had already been
adjudicated upon in the previous award dated 18th May, 2008. 7.10. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate that the claims made OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 19 of 95 by the respondent were barred by principle of res judicata and
constructive res judicata as the issue regarding liability of the
respondent to pay the Royalty (MGA) had been specifically raised,
argued and decided in favour of the petitioner in the arbitral award
dated 17th May, 2008. 7.11. The respondent itself had categorically admitted in the earlier
arbitration that the petitioner was entitled to realise and recover the
royalty/Minimum Guaranteed Amount amounting to
Rs.47,80,17,177/- for the period ending 30th June, 2007 and, therefore,
the respondent cannot be permitted to re-agitate the same issue all
over again. Assuming but not conceding that the claims are not
barred by the principle of res judicata, it is submitted that the same
would still be barred by the principles of constructive res judicata as
any matter which might and ought to have been made a ground or
defence or attack in the former proceeding but was not so made, then
such a matter in the eyes of law, to avoid multiplicity of litigation and
to bring about finality in it, is deemed to have been constructively in
issue and, therefore, is taken and decided. Reliance is placed on the
judgments passed in K.V. George v. Secy. to Govt., Water and Power
Deptt . ( 1989) 4 SCC 595, K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi ( 1998) 3 SCC 573
and State of Karnataka v. All India Manufacturers Organisation (2006) 4 SCC 683. 7.12. During the cross-examination of the respondent's witnesses, the
learned Arbitrator directed the inspection of the site of construction of
the Hotel on 10th June, 2011. Pursuant to the site inspection by the
learned Arbitrator as well as both the parties, the learned Arbitrator
passed an order dated 10th June, 2011 containing discussions which
had never occurred on that date. The petitioner filed an application OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 20 of 95 dated 4th July, 2011 to seek clarification of the order dated 10th June,
2011 as it contained matters contrary to the record. Vide order dated
4th July, 2011, the learned Arbitrator directed that the same shall be
considered at the time of final arguments. However, the impugned
award neither mentioned nor dealt with the said application. 7.13. The petitioner filed an application under Section 17 of the
Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 praying therein that during the
pendency of the arbitration proceedings, the respondent should pay
the Royalty (MGA) in terms of the supplemental agreement dated 07th
February, 1996. 7.14. The application under Section 17 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act was dismissed by the learned Arbitrator vide order
dated 15th November, 2011 on the pretext that the matter was already
fixed for final arguments and as such, there is no need to go into the
merits of the application. 7.15. The learned Arbitrator completely ignored and overlooked and
did not even consider the submissions made by the counsel for the
petitioner as well as various judicial pronouncements relied upon by
him. 7.16. The reliefs granted by the learned Arbitrator amounts to re-
writing of the lease deed and supplemental agreement both dated 07th
February, 1996 which is not permissible in view of the well-settled
law. The respondent on the one hand wants to enjoy the benefit of the
lease and on the other hand, wants to get rid of the conditions in
respect of construction of a separate hotel and payment of Royalty
(MGA), which are considered onerous by it. This is completely and
totally contrary to the settled law. 7.17. The learned Arbitrator has re-written the terms of the contract
which is beyond the scope and jurisdiction of the arbitration. The
learned Arbitrator has held that the Royalty (MGA) as agreed upon
between the parties is impossible for performance, and at the same
time, upheld the remaining part for the clause, thereby trying to
separate a single clause into two different parts. 7.18. The learned Arbitrator has ignored the well-settled principle laid down by the Supreme Court in Food Corporation of India v.
Chandu Construction & Anr. (2007) 4 SCC 697 that an arbitrator is a
creature of the agreement and must act in the four walls of the
agreement. However, in the present case, the learned Arbitrator has
exceeded his jurisdiction by passing the impugned order thereby re-
writing the express terms and conditions of the contract which were
mutually agreed upon by the petitioner and the respondent herein. 7.19. The learned Arbitrator did not take note of the fact that the
novation, rescission or alteration of a contract under Section 62 of the
Indian Contract Act can only be done with the agreement of both the
parties of a contract. Both the parties have to agree to substitute the
original contract with a new contract or rescind or alter. It cannot be
done unilaterally or by the Court of law. The respondent in essence
sought alteration of the terms of the contract through this tribunal
which cannot be permitted. Reliance is placed on the judgments
passed in Alopi Parshad & Sons Ltd. v. Union of India ( 1960) 2 SCR
793, Citi Bank N.A. v. Standard Chartered Bank AIR 2003 SC 4630
and Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of
India (1979) 3 SCC 489. 7.20. The learned Arbitrator bypassed the fact that the grounds urged
by the respondent due to temporary change in the market conditions OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 22 of 95 and the terrorists attack on Mumbai are against the settled law that
commercial difficulty, inconvenience or hardship cannot be a
justification for not complying with the terms of the contract, more so
temporary phase of recession or adverse market conditions cannot be
justification for changing the terms and conditions of a commercial
contract executed for a longer period, which is 30 yrs in the instant
case, and when the respondent with the full knowledge of the terms
and conditions, willingly and voluntarily entered into an agreement
and as such, the commercial difficulty in terms of the hardship in
performance of those conditions cannot be a ground to avoid a
contractual obligation. Reliance is placed on State of Haryana v. Jage
Ram (1980) 3 SCC 599. 7.21. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate that the respondent
was approbating and reprobating at the same time, which is not
permissible in the eyes of law. The respondent who on its own
accepted the terms and conditions of the contract cannot now be
allowed to avoid the same, on the assumption that it is now
disadvantageous to it. Reliance is placed on New Bihar Biri Leaves
Co. v. State of Bihar , (1981) 1 SCC 537. 7.22. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate that change in the
economic scenario which led a project being less favourable or less
profitable or the contract becoming more onerous, does not frustrate
the terms of the contract. 7.23. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Continental Construction Company Limited v.
State of Madhya Pradesh, 1998 (3) SCC 82 wherein the Supreme
Court expressly while dealing with similar facts and circumstances
held that the arbitrator is a Tribunal selected by the parties to decide OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 23 of 95 the dispute according to law and so is bound to follow the settled law
and that a contractor having contracted cannot go back to the
agreement simply because it does not suit him to abide by it. The
Court further held that the contract is not frustrated merely because
the circumstance in which the contract was based was altered. The
Supreme Court further held that the Indian Contract Act does not
enable a party to a contract to ignore the express covenants thereof,
and to claim payment of consideration for performance of the contract
at rates different from the stipulated rates on some vague plea of
equity. It was further observed that the parties to an executory contract
are often faced, in the course of carrying it out, with a turn of events
which they did not at all anticipate, such as abnormal rise or fall in
prices, a sudden depreciation of currency, an unexpected obstacle to
execution of the contract. However, no general liberty is reserved for
the Courts to absolve a party from liability to perform his part of the
contract merely because on account of uncontemplated turn of events,
the performance of the contract may become onerous. 7.24. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate the law laid down by
the Supreme Court in Alopi Parshad & Sons Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1960 SC 588 in which it was held that a contract is not frustrated
merely because of its performance has become more onerous and
burdensome namely because of abnormal rise and fall in prices, a
sudden depreciation of currency, or an unexpected obstacle to the
execution of the contract, as these are nothing but ordinary risks of
business. The Supreme Court further observed that the Court has no
power of absolving the performance of the contract, merely because it
has become onerous on account of unforeseen circumstances. 7.25. The learned Arbitrator committed a serious error of jurisdiction OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 24 of 95 in returning a finding in para 34 that it cannot be said that the claimant
has no FSI left to construct the hotel, failing to appreciate that this
matter was beyond the terms of reference of the learned Arbitrator.
Assuming, though without admitting, that the matter of FSI was
within the jurisdiction of the learned Arbitrator, the
respondent/claimant played fraud upon the petitioner by dishonestly
appropriating and utilizing the FSI for the land in question for
construction of a building on adjoining land belonging to the
respondent. In this manner, the respondent not only misappropriated
valuable property of the petitioner, but also this conduct bears out the
intent of the respondent that it never intended to construct a hotel on
the present land. 7.26. The petitioner filed an application under Section 27 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 seeking liberty to summon a
witness from Mumbai Municipal Corporation to resolve the
controversy relating to the FSI of 11000 square meters of land. The
learned Arbitrator disposed of the application on the ground that the
respondent had given up prayers (b) to (d) of the statement of claim.
Despite that learned Arbitrator dealt with the plea of FSI in para 34 of
the impugned award. 7.27. The respondent does not have the required Floor Space Index to
fulfil the contractual obligations. The learned Arbitrator has failed to
appreciate the fact that the evidence, documents and the admissions
made by the witnesses of the respondent themselves that there is no
Floor Space Index (FSI) left with the respondent to construct the
Hotel as stipulated in the lease agreement dated 07th February, 1996
and the present proceeding is nothing but a way devised by the
respondent to come out of its liability to construct the hotel. The OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 25 of 95 petitioner had placed sufficient materials on record i.e. by way of
letter from the Municipal Corporation of Mumbai dated 17th June,
2004 which clearly stated that the respondent does not have the
required FSI (Floor Space Index) to construct any hotel on the 11000
sq. mtr. land as the FSI of the same has already been utilized by the
respondent in some other projects. The petitioner also placed on
record occupancy certificate dated 15th November, 2002 issued by the
Municipal Corporation of Mumbai which clearly highlighted the fact
beyond doubt that there was no FSI available with the respondent. 7.28. The learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate the fact that even the
witness i.e. CW-2 admitted that FSI under the present agreement was
"one" and the above mentioned fact was also admitted by the
claimant's witness during his cross examination. 7.29. The learned Arbitrator has erred in relying upon the letter dated
26th June, 1981 issued by the Government of Maharashtra Urban
Development Department to the respondent. It is submitted that a
perusal of the letter dated 25th June, 1991 would show that it was a
conditional offer made to the respondent before the agreement was
entered into between the parties wherein the State of Maharashtra had
offered that subject to fulfilment of the conditions mentioned therein,
the respondent may have an FSI of "two" subject to payment of
certain charges. However, the learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate
the fact that in terms of clause 6 of the lease deed dated 07th February,
1996 entered between the parties, the FSI of the land was "one" and
the respondent could not go beyond the same without the prior
permission or approval from the petitioner. It is also an admitted
position that no such approval was even taken by the respondent from
the petitioner herein. 7.30. The learned Arbitrator while erroneously holding that the
respondent had an available FSI of "two" by over-looking not only the
agreement entered between the parties dated 07th February, 1996,
letter dated 17th June, 2004 from the Municipal Corporation of
Mumbai, the occupancy certificate dated 15th November, 2002 issued
by the Municipal Corporation of Mumbai which clearly specified and
demarcated the FSI available on the land in question in terms of the
present rules was "one", but also the acceptance and admission by
CW-2 that there exists no FSI on the said land. 7.31. The impugned award is also contrary to the law laid down
under Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The learned
Arbitrator has failed to appreciate the fact that pursuant to the order
dated 30th January, 2012, the sole surviving prayer claimed by the
respondent was the 'declaration' to the effect that the Minimum
Guaranteed Amount has become impossible of performance. In terms
of Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, merely a declaration without
seeking any consequential relief cannot be granted. 8. Submissions on behalf of the respondent

8.1. The respondent in the arbitration proceedings restricted its relief
to a declaration that the Minimum Guaranteed Amounts stipulated in
the Supplemental Agreement dated 7th February, 1996 executed
between the parties is an impossibility not capable of being achieved
in the circumstances prevailing in the hotel industry. As such, the
only point at issue before the learned Arbitrator was whether the
Minimum Guaranteed Amount of royalty mentioned in Schedule A to
the Supplemental Agreement dated 7th February, 1996 had become
impossible of performance post June, 2008 on account of the
worldwide recession and the terrorist attack on five star hotels in OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 27 of 95 Mumbai. The combined effect of both these events had a crippling
effect on the hotel industry in Mumbai and that the projected gross
turnover for the respective years mentioned in the Schedule A became
unachievable. The magnitude of the worldwide recession was
comparable only to the great depression of the 1920s and the terrorist
attack by Pakistani militants on five star hotels in Mumbai was
unimaginable. There was no precedent in history to what had
happened during the second half of 2008 in Mumbai and no one could
have foreseen such an eventuality. The Minimum Guaranteed
Amount of royalty based on the estimate of the parties in 1996
regarding the future gross turnover of the hotel had become irrelevant
and incapable of achievement. The combined effect of these two
events has been to render the Supplemental Agreement dated 07th
February, 1996 regarding payment of Minimum Guaranteed Amount
to the petitioner, not only more onerous, but commercially impossible
of performance within the meaning of Section 56 of the Indian
Contract Act, 1972. 8.2. The respondent admits and acknowledges the existence,
validity and enforceability of the Lease Deed dated 07th February,
1996 executed by the petitioner in favour of the respondent in respect
of 11,000 sq. meters of land located near the Sahar International
Airport, Mumbai. The rights and obligations of the lessor and the
lessee as set out in the said Lease Deed were not under challenge at
all. It was common ground between the parties before the learned
Arbitrator that the lease deed dated 07th February, 1996 was never
frustrated and both parties affirmed its validity and enforceability.
The respondent states that as a matter of law, a lease is incapable of
being frustrated as has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court. Reliance is placed on the judgment passed in Raja Dhruv Dev Chand
v. Raja Harmohinder ( supra) and Sushila Devi v. Hari Singh (1971)
2 SCC 288. 8.3. The projected gross turnover mentioned in Schedule A became
unachievable following the worldwide recession which was
unprecedented since the great depression of the 1920s as well as the
terrorist attack by Pakistani militants on five star hotels in Mumbai
which had no precedent at all in history. The respondent led expert
evidence on the impact of these events on the hotel industry in
Mumbai and the difference it would make to the projected turnover of
the 150 room hotel proposed to be constructed on the 11,000 sq.
meters of land leased to the respondent by the petitioner. The
affidavit of the expert witness, Shri Vijay Premji Thacker, a Chartered
Accountant providing consultancy services to the hotel and tourism
industry, with vast experience to his credit was filed by the
respondent. The witness analysed in detail the situation prevailing in
the hotel industry in Mumbai towards the end of 2008. 8.4. The conclusion drawn by this expert as mentioned in paragraph
5.3 of his affidavit is that during the first ten years of its operations the
total revenue or turnover of the proposed hotel would be Rs.646.1
crores and the Minimum Guaranteed Amount payable to the petitioner
as additional consideration for the lease would be Rs.673.4 crores for
the same ten year period. In other words, the Minimum Guaranteed
Amount payable as a part of the consideration for the lease will
exceed the total revenue of the hotel by 27.3 crores. This is clearly a
bizarre situation which needs to be corrected by declaring the contents
of Schedule A to the Supplemental Agreement dated 7th February,
1996 as impossible of performance within the meaning of Section 56 OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 29 of 95 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 . The learned Arbitrator after
appreciating the evidence led by both the parties held that the
Minimum Guaranteed Amount of royalty as mentioned in the
Schedule A to the Supplemental Agreement had become impossible
of performance. This is a finding of fact which is not liable to be
interfered with by this Court. The learned Arbitrator has left it to the
parties to arrive at Minimum Guaranteed Amount of royalty afresh in
terms of Clause 3 of the lease deed without in any manner disturbing
the obligation of the respondent to pay 7.5% of the gross turnover of
the hotel towards royalty as agreed and recorded in the Supplemental
Agreement dated 7th February, 1996. The learned Arbitrator has
committed no error whatsoever and has acted within the jurisdiction
conferred upon him by the arbitration agreement between the parties. 8.5. The frustrating events that gave rise to the cause of action of the
respondent occurred after the passing of the award dated 17th May,
2008. It was from June 2008 that the global economic recession
began to have its impact on the hotel industry in India, and the
evidence of the expert witness, Shri Vijay Thacker is clear on this
point. The terrorist attack on Mumbai hotels was on 26th November,
2008, which is a historical event. The said expert witness has
demonstrated with facts and figures the crippling effect which these
unforeseen events had on the occupancy levels and profitability of
five star hotels in Mumbai. Obviously, the respondent could not have
raised the issue of frustration which is founded on these subsequent
events in the earlier arbitration proceedings. 8.6. The respondent accepts the legal proposition that a contract
does not become frustrated because it has become more onerous to
one party. The doctrine of frustration is an exception to the sanctity, OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 30 of 95 inviolability and enforceability of contracts. The law expects parties
to abide by the bargain which they have struck unless they are
exonerated from performing their obligation by supervining events of
an extreme and unexpected character over which they had no control.
The concept of frustration of contract has varied from country to
country and from age to age. When supervening events over which
the parties had no control have led to a situation where the lessee of a
piece of land given on lease for construction of a hotel is required to
pay more than the actual turnover of the hotel itself as additional
consideration for the lease, which is over and above the lease rent
stipulated in the lease deed, it is not a case of the contract becoming
more onerous, but one of frustration. 8.7. It could not have been in the contemplation of the parties to the
supplemental agreement dated 7th February, 1996 that the Minimum
Guaranteed Amount stipulated in Schedule A thereto would one day
exceed by far the total turnover of the hotel itself. Such an
unexpected turn of events undoubtedly leads to frustration of the
Minimum Guaranteed Amount as mentioned in Schedule A to the
Supplemental Agreement. 8.8. Reliance is placed on Satyabrata Ghose v. Mugneeram
Bangur & Co. AIR 1954 SC 44, in Sushila Devi v. Hari Singh ( 1971) 2 SCC 288, Jagatjit Distilling & Allied Industries v. Bharat
Nidhi Ltd. DLT 15 (1979) 152 (SN), D. Devi Bhagat v. J.B. Advani
& Co. 76 Calcutta Weekly Notes and Sharda Mahajan v. Maple
Trading International P. Ltd. [2007] 139 Comp. Cas 718 (Delhi). 8.9. With respect to the petitioner's contention that the claim was
barred by Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, it was submitted that
the claim was not barred as the declaration sought fell outside the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 31 of 95 purview of Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. 8.10. With respect to the petitioner's contention that the respondent
has no FSI left to build the Hotel block on the lease land, it was
submitted that the respondent has utilised the FSI of 1 (one) in
carrying out construction on the adjoining Hotel Leela Galleria, as
back as in the year 2002 but the respondent can obtain FSI of 2 (two)
on payment of premium to the Government. Reliance is placed on the
letter dated 25th June, 1991 issued by Government of Mahrashtra,
Urban Development Department, in support of this submission. 9. Scope of Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act

9.1. The law with respect to the scope of Section 34 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is well settled. In Oil and
Natural Gas Corporation v. Saw Pipes Ltd. , 2003 (5) SCC 705, the
Supreme Court has considered the scope of interference in an arbitral
award on the ground of public policy in great detail and observed that
the phrase 'public policy of India" is required to be given a wider
meaning so as to prevent frustration of legislation and justice. The
Supreme Court held that an arbitral award could be set aside, if it is
contrary to (i) the fundamental policy of Indian Law; or (ii) the
interest of India; or (iii) justice or morality; or (iv) if it is patently
illegal. However, the Court cautioned that the illegality must go to the
root of the matter. If the illegality is of trivial nature, the arbitral
award cannot be taken to be against public policy. The Court further
observed that the award could be set aside if it is so unfair and
unreasonable that it shocked the conscience of the Court. 9.2. In Delhi Development Authority v. R.S. Sharma , (2008) 13
SCC 80, the Supreme Court summarized the principles as under: 9.3. In Steel Authority of India Ltd. v. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes
Ltd., JT 2009 (12) SC 135, the Supreme Court summarised the
position in paragraph 26 as follows: 9.4. In Oil and Natural Gas Coporation Ltd. v. Western Geco
International Limited , (2014) 9 SCC 263, the Supreme Court further
elaborated the principles relating to Section 34 and held as under: (Emphasis supplied)

9.5. In Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority , (2015)
3 SCC 49, the Supreme Court further elaborated the scope of Section
34 and held as under: 31. The third juristic principle is that a decision which is
 perverse or so irrational that no reasonable person would
 have arrived at the same is important and requires some
 degree of explanation. It is settled law that where: Obviously, this would shock the conscience of the court and
 the arbitral award would be liable to be set aside on the
 ground that it is contrary to "justice". Morality 37. The other ground is of "morality". Just as the
 expression "public policy" also occurs in Section 23 of the
 Contract Act, 1872 so does the expression "morality". Two
 illustrations to the said section are interesting for they
 explain to us the scope of the expression "morality": The agreement is void, because it is immoral, though the
 letting may not be punishable under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." 42. In the 1996 Act, this principle is substituted by the
 "patent illegality" principle which, in turn, contains three
 subheads: This again is really a contravention of Section 28(1)(a) of
 the Act, which reads as under: 42.2. (b) A contravention of the Arbitration Act itself would
 be regarded as a patent illegality -- for example if an OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 37 of 95 arbitrator gives no reasons for an award in contravention of Section 31(3) of the Act, such award will be liable to be set
 aside. 42.3. (c) Equally, the third subhead of patent illegality is
 really a contravention of Section 28(3) of the Arbitration
 Act, which reads as under: This last contravention must be understood with a caveat.
 An Arbitral Tribunal must decide in accordance with the
 terms of the contract, but if an arbitrator construes a term of
 the contract in a reasonable manner, it will not mean that
 the award can be set aside on this ground. Construction of
 the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to
 decide unless the arbitrator construes the contract in such a
 way that it could be said to be something that no fair-minded
 or reasonable person could do." (Emphasis supplied) 10.Discussion and Findings

 Respondent's liability to pay the Royalty (MGA) is absolute
 under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 10.1. A lease of an immovable property is a transfer of an interest in
an immovable property entitling the lessee to the enjoyment of such
immovable property which includes the right to possession thereof.
An essential feature of the lease is that the transfer is for a
consideration which is called premium or rent. The lease is defined in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act whereas the rights and
liabilities of the lessor and the lessee are defined in Section 108. Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act defines the lease as
under:- (Emphasis supplied)
10.3. In Gopalakrishna Mudaliar v. Rajan Kattalai , (1974) 1 MLJ
184, the tenant contested the claim for rent on the ground that there OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 39 of 95 had been a cyclone. The Madras High Court rejected the contention
holding that the rent stipulated in the lease is an unconditional rent
and not subject to acts of God. Relevant portion of the said judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied) Section 56 of the Contract Act has no application to leases

10.4. Section 56 of the Contract Act, second part provides that
contract to do an act which, after the contract is made, becomes
impossible, becomes void when the act becomes impossible. The
relevant portion of Section 56 is reproduced hereunder:- 10.5. The essential ingredients for application of second part of Section 56 are as under: 10.6. The doctrine of frustration applies to contracts. However, a
lease is something more than a mere contract or agreement in so far as
it results in the creation of an estate in favour of the lessee. It creates
an interest in a property in favour of the lessee. It brings into
existence the respective covenants of the lessor and the lessee;
including the consideration, and it constitutes an agreement
enforceable at law i.e. contracts which have to be performed, until
lease comes to an end. There is nothing to be done after the lessee is
put in possession and therefore, condition (b) would not be fulfilled. Section 56 of the Contract Act does not apply to cases in which there
is a completed transfer. There is a clear distinction between a
completed conveyance and an executory contract, and the events
which discharge a contract do not invalidate a concluded transfer.
The relevant judgments are as under:- (Emphasis supplied)

10.6.2. In T. Lakshmipathi v. P. Nithyananda Reddy (2003) 5
SCC 150, the Supreme Court referred to Raja Dhruv Dev Chand (supra) and held that doctrine of frustration belongs to the realm of
law of contracts and it does not apply to a transaction where not only a
privity of contract but a privity of estate has also been created
inasmuch as a lease is the transfer of an interest in immovable
property within the meaning of Section 5 read with Section 105 of the
Transfer of Property Act. Relevant portion of the said judgment is
reproduced hereunder: - (Emphasis supplied)
10.6.3. In Mahadeo Prosad Shaw v. Calcutta Dyeing and
Cleaning Co. AIR 1961 Cal 70, the Calcutta High Court held that the
doctrine of frustration has no application to leases. Relevant portion
of the said judgment is as under: - 14. Hence, there must be-- (a) A valid and subsisting contract between the parties, (b) There must be some part of the contract yet 'to do'. (c) The contract after it is made, becomes 'impossible'. 15. If these three conditions are satisfied, then the contract
 becomes void when the act becomes impossible. This is the law
 of frustration; but the question still is whether that would
 operate to a lease. The question arises in the following manner: 16. When a lease is executed, there is transfer of property. The
 lessee is put in possession and it may be said after the lessee is
 put in possession that there is nothing yet to be done.
 Therefore, Section 56 would not apply because condition (b)
 would not be fulfilled, there being nothing yet to be done by
 either party. (Emphasis supplied) Section 4 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882

10.7. The Indian Contract Act was passed before the Transfer of
Property Act . By Section 4 of the Transfer of Property Act, the
chapters and sections of the Transfer of Property Act which relate to
contracts are to be taken as part of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 . Section 4 , however, does not enact and cannot be read as enacting that
the provisions of the Contract Act are to be read into the Transfer of
Property Act . Section 4 of the Transfer of Property Act is reproduced
hereunder: 10.8. It is significant to note that the whole of the Contract Act has
not been extended to transfer of immovable properties under Transfer
of Property Act . Only such provisions of Transfer of Property Act ,
which relate to contracts alone, are read as part of the Contract Act ,
but not vice versa. There is a clear distinction between a contract,
which still remains to be performed and a conveyance by which the
title to the property actually passes. Thus, a mere agreement to lease
would not amount to an actual transfer of right in immovable
property. However, after the execution of the lease deed, the
transaction passes out of the domain of mere contract into one of
conveyance governed by Transfer of Property Act . Such a competed
transaction would be governed by the provisions of the Transfer of
Property Act . 10.9. The doctrine of frustration embodied in Section 56 of the Indian
Contract Act which renders a contract void by reason of the
impossibility, would not apply in the case of a lease. The rights of the
parties after a lease was granted rest not in contract. Though under Section 4 of the Transfer of Property Act, the chapters and sections of
the said Act relating to contracts are to be taken as part of the Indian
Contract Act that does not mean that the provisions of the Contract
Act are to be read into the Transfer of Property Act . The relevant
judgments in this regard are as under:- (Emphasis supplied) Sections 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 is a special law
and it excludes the general law i.e. Section 56 of the Contract Act
10.10. Section 56 of the Contract Act is a general law whereas Section
108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act is a special law. In Kedar Lall
v. Hari Lall , AIR 1952 SC 47, the Supreme Court held that the special
law dealing with the mortgage i.e. Transfer of Property Act shall
exclude the general law i.e. the Contract Act . Relevant portion of the
Supreme Court judgment is reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)
10.11.The doctrine of frustration of leases is incorporated in Section
108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act. Section 108(e) is reproduced
hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)
10.12.The destruction of the leasehold property under the
circumstances mentioned in Section 108(e) by itself does not amount
to a determination of the lease under Section 111. In other words,
even though the lease-hold property is destroyed, the tenancy is not
automatically determined. Despite the destruction of the premises, the
lease subsists and the lessee is liable to pay the contractual rent.
Section 108(e) confers an option on the lessee to treat the lease as OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 48 of 95 void and thereby avoid the liability of paying the rent in future. 10.13.A comparison of Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act
with Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act would show that the
doctrine of frustration as enacted in Section 56 is substantially
incorporated in Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property
Act. Section 56 refers to the stage when the contract becomes
impossible or unlawful and there would be frustration within the
meaning of that Act and the contract is discharged thereby. Section
108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act does not use the words 'when
the contract becomes impossible', but really gives certain instances of
it. Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act, begins with certain
instances where the lease becomes impossible of further performance
and those instances are destruction by 'fire, tempest, flood, violence of
an army or of a mob'; and after citing specific instances, it continues
to use a rather general clause 'other irresistible force'.
10.14.Section 108(e) is based on the principle of frustration of
contract, and was enacted to safeguard the rights of the tenant in case
of the total destruction of the property leased to him. It gives him the
right to escape his liability as a tenant by declaring the lease void.
However, if the tenant does not exercise the option under clause (e)
that is, does not invoke the doctrine of frustration, the lease shall
continue for the benefit of both the parties. It is the general rule that
the rent continues to be payable notwithstanding that, in the case of a
dwelling-house or flat, it is at the time of letting, or subsequently
becomes, unfit for habitation; or in the case of land near the seashore,
that it is of no value; or in the case of agricultural land, that it is
unsuitable for the intended use; or that the premises are subsequently
destroyed by fire, or carried away by a flood, or inundated by fresh OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 49 of 95 water; or destroyed by enemy action; the premises have become
useless to the tenant. It would thus appear that in case of the
destruction of the leased accommodation though no fault of the
landlord, the tenant can avoid payment of rent only if he declares the
lease void under Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act, but if
he fails to do so, the lease will subsist for the benefit of both parties
and the landlord is entitled to claim rent. 10.15.The entire law of frustration of leases is codified under Section
108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act. Under the Contract Act , the
contract stands discharged as this is a part of positive law; whereas
under the Transfer of Property Act , it depends on the option of the
lessee. Therefore, as a result of frustration, if a lease is to be treated as
a contract, it would contradict the result as stated
in Section108(e) because in one case, the contract stands
automatically discharged and in the other, only discharged at the
option of the lessee. 10.16. As the Transfer of Property Act is a special provision regarding
leases, the general provision as enacted in Section 56 of the Contract
Act, would not apply in view of the specific provision relating to
leases under Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act. In that
view, Section 56 of the Contract Act has no application to leases and
instead of that section, Section 108(e) will apply so far as frustration
relating to leases is concerned. The clear language of the provision
leaves no room for doubt that if any part of the property is wholly
destroyed or rendered substantially and permanently unfit for the
purposes for which it was let, it is the lessee who is free to decide
whether to continue the lease or not. The lease will not automatically
be rendered void. The principle enacted in Section 108(e) of the Act OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 50 of 95 is based on sound equitable principles. The lessee has obtained the
property leased on payment of a particular rent/premium. As a result
of destruction of a material or substantial part of the premises
demised; it is he to whom the usefulness of the property is lessened. If
he chooses to continue to pay the rent agreed upon, the lessor cannot
have any grievance. The relevant judgments in this regard are as
under:- (Emphasis supplied)

10.16.2. In Mahadeo Prosad Shaw v. Calcutta Dyeing and
Cleaning Co. (supra), the Calcutta High Court held that the Contract OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 51 of 95 Act covers substantially a wider field than Transfer of Property Act .
The performance of the duties of a lessor or a lessee may become
impossible otherwise than by the destruction of the property; but this
clause does not cover those. The Court turned down the argument
that the question of frustration of a lease by destruction of the property
is to be decided under this Act, but other cases of the lease (contract)
becoming impossible are to be adjudged under the Contract Act on the
ground that the Supreme Court has, in Kedar Lal v. Harilal (supra)
ruled that "it is established principle that where is a general law and
special law dealing with a particular matter, the special excludes the
general." The Court went on to observe that if the special law
excludes the general law, it excludes the general law in its entirety and
not in parts only. Reading this clause, together with the proviso, the
Court held that the entire law of frustration of leases is codified under Section 108(e) ; that under the Contract Act , the contract stands
discharged as this is a part of positive law, whereas under the Transfer
of Property Act it depends on the option of the lessee; that the result
of frustration, if a lease is to be treated as a contract, would contradict
the result, as stated in Section 108(e) because in one case the contract
stands automatically discharged and in the other, only discharged at
the option of the lessee. The Court held that Section 56 of the Contract
Act has no application to leases. The Court held as under: (Emphasis supplied)

10.16.3. In Hind Rubber Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. T.M.
Bagasarwalla , AIR 1996 Bombay 389, the Bombay High Court held
that the destruction of the leased property does not extinguish the
lease. Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act gives the option
to the lessee to treat such lease as void. However, if the lessee does
not exercise the option, he would continue to be the lessee and liable
to pay the rent. Relevant portion of the said judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied)
Commercial hardship does not frustrate the contract
10.17.Even assuming Section 56 applies to leases, it is well settled
that Section 56 of the Contract Act cannot be invoked in a case of
commercial hardship which may make the performance unprofitable
or more expensive or dilatory. A contract is not frustrated just
because it becomes more difficult or expensive to perform. 10.18.The whole case of the respondent is based on the ground that
due to increase in project cost and due to temporary change in the
market condition, the contact has become less onerous and therefore,
the terms of the contract could not be complied with. It is the settled
law that commercial difficulty, inconvenience or hardship cannot
provide justification for not complying with the terms of the contract.
The respondent entered into a lease with the petitioner with the full
knowledge of conditions which they had to carry out in the conduct of
their business, on which they had willingly and voluntarily embarked.
The lease between parties is for a period of 30 years and it is but
natural and foreseeable that there would be various economic turmoils
over a period as long as 30 years. Principle of frustration is not OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 55 of 95 applicable when the event is foreseeable but not foreseen. 10.19.In commercial contracts entered into with open eyes, there
cannot be variation to the terms of a concluded contract which has
already been acted upon and the parties are estopped from challenging
the terms and conditions of the contract. If a person of his own
accord, accepts or contracts on certain terms and works out the
contract, he cannot be allowed to adhere to and abide by some of the
terms of the contract which proved advantageous to him and repudiate
the other terms of the same contract which might be disadvantageous
to him. The maxim is qui approbat non reprobat (one who approbates
cannot reprobate), according to which a party to an instrument or
transaction cannot take advantage of one part of a document or
transaction and reject the rest. The above principles have been laid
down in the following judgments:- (Emphasis Supplied)

10.19.2. In Panna Lal v. State of Rajasthan , (1975) 2 SCC 633,
the Supreme Court held that a party cannot resile from the contract on
the ground that the terms of payment were onerous. The relevant
portion of the judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied)

10.19.3. In State Bank of Haryana v. Jage Ram (1980) 3 SCC
599 the Supreme Court held that the Licensee cannot challenge the
terms of the licence on the ground that he is finding it commercially
inexpedient to conduct his business. The Supreme Court reaffirmed
the principles laid down in Har Shankar v. Deputy Excise and
Taxation Commissioner (1975) 1 SCC 737. Relevant portion of the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 57 of 95 said judgement is reproduced hereunder. (Emphasis supplied)

10.19.5. In C. Bepathumma v. V.S. Kadambolithaya (supra), the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 60 of 95 Supreme Court held that he who accepts a benefit under a deed or will
or other instrument must adopt the whole contents of that instrument,
must conform to all its provisions and renounce all rights that are
inconsistent with it. 10.19.6. In Assistant Excise Commissioner v. Issac Peter (supra),
the Supreme Court held that in cases of contracts entered into with
open eyes, a party cannot seek alteration of the terms expressly agreed
to, on the ground of financial hardship. The State has no responsibility
to ensure profit to everyone who contracts with it. The relevant
portion of the judgment is reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)

10.19.7. In Bharti Cellular Limited v. Union of India (2010) 10
SCC 174, the Supreme Court held that no one can approbate and OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 62 of 95 reprobate the same document and anyone who has accepted with full
knowledge or notice of facts, benefits under a transaction which he
might have rejected or contested, cannot question the transaction or
take up an inconsistent position qua the same. Party who has
unconditionally accepted the package cannot thereafter reject the
inconvenient and onerous conditions while accepting the conditions
beneficial to him. Relevant portion of the said judgment is reproduced
hereunder:- (Emphasis added)

10.19.8. The principles of law so settled by the Supreme Court in
catena of judgments have been again reiterated in Mumbai OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 63 of 95 International Airport Pvt. Ltd. v. Golden Chariot Airport 2010 (10)
SCC 422. 10.19.9. In Track Innovations India Pvt. Ltd. v. Union Of India ,
2010 (170) DLT 424, the Division Bench of this Court held that there
cannot be variation of the terms of a commercial contract, which has
been acted upon. Government is not bound to ensure profit in every
commercial contract more so when the contract had been awarded
either by public auction or by floating tender or negotiations. The
Division Bench further noted that a person cannot approbate and
reprobate or accept or reject the same instrument. Relevant portion of the said judgment is reproduced hereunder: - (Emphasis supplied)
10.19.10. In C.J. International Hotels Ltd. v. N.D.M.C. , AIR 2001
Del 435, this Court held that the Licensee cannot challenge the
conditions of the licence if he finds it commercially unviable to
conduct his business. Relevant portion of the said judgment is OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 64 of 95 reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis supplied)
10.20.In New Delhi Municipal Council vs. M/s Prominent Hotels
Limited, 222 (2015) DLT 706, the licensee challenged the terms of
the license deed requiring the licensee to pay the license fee @ 23% of
the gross turnover as unlawful and void ab initio on the ground that
the project was economically unviable. The Trial Court accepted the
contention of M/s Prominent Hotels Limited and declared Clause 3 of
the license deed requiring the payment of 23% of the gross turnover as OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 65 of 95 arbitrary, unreasonable, unjust, unconscionable, unlawful and,
therefore, null and void ab initio. The Trial Court directed NDMC to
renegotiate the terms with respect to payment of license fee with the
licensee. NDMC challenged the decree passed by the Civil Court in
Regular First Appeal. This Court following Alopi Parshad v. Union
of India (supra), Panna Lal v. State of Rajasthan, (supra), State
Bank of Haryana v. Jage Ram ( supra), New Bihar Biri Leaves Co. v.
State of Bihar ( supra), C. Bepathumma v. V.S. Kadambolithaya (supra), Assistant Excise Commissioner v. Issac Peter ( supra), Bharti
Cellular Limited v. Union of India ( supra), Mumbai International
Airport Pvt. Ltd. v. Golden Chariot Airport I ( supra), Track
Innovations India Pvt. Ltd. v. Union Of India ( supra) and C.J.
International Hotels Ltd. v. N.D.M.C. (supra) held the challenge to
the licence deed was barred by well settled law that commercial
difficulty cannot provide justification for not complying with the
terms of the contract. In commercial contracts entered into with open
eyes, there cannot be variation to the terms of a concluded contract
which has already been acted upon and the parties are estopped from
challenging the terms and conditions of the contract. The State has no
responsibility to ensure profit to everyone it contracts with. Profit and
loss are normal incidents of a business. The relevant portion of the
said judgment is as under:- 30.37 For the reasons discussed hereinabove, the appeal is
 allowed. The Licensee's suit was not maintainable. The Trial
 Court had no jurisdiction in this matter. The impugned
 judgment and decree are non-est and therefore set aside. The
 Licensee's suit is dismissed with costs of Rs.5,00,000/- to be
 paid by the Licensee to NDMC within two months. 30.41 The Licensee has no respect for truth and has polluted
 the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands. The Licensee
 has played tricks by delaying the proceedings before the Trial
 Court for more than 18 years. The Licensee has interfered with
 the administration of justice. This case warrants strict action to
 be taken. It is a fit case for ordering inquiry or initiating
 proceedings for contempt of Court. However, the action against
 the Licensee is deferred for two weeks to enable the Licensee to
 introspect and file an undertaking to abide by the terms of the
 licence deed dated 16th July, 1982 and not to resort to any
 frivolous proceedings/action in future. Since this appeal is
 being disposed of, the Licensee shall file his undertaking before
 the Writ Court in WP(C) No.1629/2015. In the event of the
 failure of the Licensee to file such an undertaking within two
 weeks, NDMC is permitted to initiate proceedings for criminal
 contempt against the Licensee." (Emphasis supplied)
Patent illegality

10.21.The lessee cannot seek discharge from the payment of Royalty
(MGA). Even assuming for the sake of argument that a lease can
frustrate under Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, the lessee would
be bound to surrender the lease and pay the Royalty (MGA) upto the
date of handing over of the possession. Even under Section 108(e) of
the Transfer of Property Act, the lessee upon exercising the option to
treat the lease as void, is liable to surrender the possession and make
the payment of the rent upto the date of the surrender. 10.22. Section 56 cannot be invoked to partially declare the clause
relating to the payment of Royalty (MGA) to be void. Even assuming
for the sake of argument that the lease can frustrate under Section 56 of the Contract Act, the whole lease would become void and the
lessee would be liable to surrender the possession and clear the
liability of Royalty (MGA) upto the date of surrender under Section
65 of the Indian Contract Act. 10.23.The respondent's argument that the lease is valid and only the
clause relating to payment of Royalty (MGA) has frustrated, is
absolutely misconceived and unsustainable. Since Section 56 does
not apply to leases, the respondent cannot invoke the same with
respect to its obligation to pay the Royalty (MGA). 10.24.Even assuming there was a recession in hotel industry in 2008,
it cannot be said that the recession was permanent and would continue
for the rest of the period of the lease. The market keeps on fluctuating
and therefore, taking the recession in 2008 to frustrate the entire lease
is absurd on the face of it. Even the respondent's expert witness did
not say and could not have said that the recession would continue
forever. 10.25.In Alanduraiappar Koil Chithakkadu v. T.S.A. Hamid , AIR
1963 Madras 94, the tenant invoked Section 56 of the Contract Act to
claim remission of rent on the ground that the tenant could not pay the
rent on account of two cyclones. The Division Bench of Madras High
Court held that Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act has no
application to the case. The Division Bench further held that it is
difficult to conceive how the cyclone which lasted for a short duration
in 1952 and another milder cyclone in 1955 render the performance of
the contract impossible or substantially prevented the performance of OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 69 of 95 the contract. Relevant portion of the judgment is reproduced
hereunder: company who could not undertake the road construction for an
 indefinite period, wrote to the plaintiff, seeking to have the
 agreement treated as cancelled. Their Lordships at p. 326, of
 the report (SCR): (at p. 49 of AIR), took up the question for OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 70 of 95 consideration as to whether or not the disturbing element which
 is alleged to have happened in the case, had substantially
 prevented the performance of the contract as a whole. They
 came to the conclusion that it could not be said that the
 requisition by the military vitally affected the contract or made
 its performance impossible. (8) In the present case, it is difficult to conceive how the
 cyclone which lasted for a short duration in 1952, and another
 milder cyclone in 1955 rendered the performance of the
 contract impossible, or substantially prevented the performance
 of the contract. The defendant admits the sudden influx of
 produce to the shandy, caused by the windfall of this after the
 1952 cyclone, and then the slackening of the supplies for a
 period of six months when the shandy was not being formed
 regularly. Thereafter, the shandy admittedly continued to
 function. These disturbances in the business of the shandy
 would have been over, by the middle of 1953. Though the suit
 lease commenced on 1-4-1952, the lease deed was executed and
 registered only on 12-9-1953. By that time, the cyclone had
 come and gone, and its after-effects also had subsided. Nothing
 prevented the defendant at that stage, from insisting upon a
 recital in the contract to provide for the effects of the cyclone.
 The omission to mention this in the document of the lease,
 would show that the parties did not intend to provide for a
 clause about remission of lease amount, on account of the
 cyclone. In such circumstances it will not be open to the parties
 to adduce oral evidence that the lease did include a clause for
 remission, as it will amount to varying the terms of a written
 contract by parole evidence. However, the defendant has not
 based his claim for remission on the ground that the contract
 provided for remission. He seems to have based his claim on
 the doctrine of frustration. The trial court has referred to the
 decision of the Supreme Court abovementioned under Section 56 of the Contract Act, and came to the conclusion that
 in the circumstances of the case, the promisor could not fulfil
 his promise on account of the two cyclones. It is not clear how
 the promisor was prevented from fulfilling his promise on
 account of the cyclone. The interruption in the business for a
 short period, no doubt, might have led to a fall in the business
 from what was anticipated, but the lease had five years to run,
 and the business would have resumed its normalcy in the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 71 of 95 following season; the business might have even boomed, and
 the increase in business might have offset the loss. Of course,
 no evidence has been given about this. The fact, however, is
 that the lease had five years to run, and both temporary fall of
 the income in one year and temporary boosting of the income in
 another year, should be considered to be implied in the
 calculation of the parties when they entered into the agreement.
 The long duration of the contract was expected to iron out these
 variations and provide for a fair average profit during the
 period as a whole. Therefore, it was quite improper for the trial
 court to fasten only on the loss during the cyclone, and ignore
 the profits that might have been earned in the other periods for
 holding that this is a case where the doctrine of frustration
 would apply. The trial court in extending its sympathy to the
 defendant has not considered the fact that the defendant was
 largely responsible for his present predicament, through having
 bid at a highly excessive figure at the auction, for no other
 purpose than to get the better of a rival competing lessee. The
 court cannot relieve a party of the consequences of such a
 foolish action. It would have been open to the temple authorities
 to give some relief on ex gratia basis, if they were so advised,
 but that is not for the court to grant. We are of the opinion that
 this is not a case where the doctrine of frustration would
 apply." (Emphasis supplied)
The arbitrator cannot re-write the terms of the contract. 10.26.The learned Arbitrator is bound by the terms of the contract and
cannot go beyond the terms laid down in the contract. The Arbitrator
while giving the award or conducting the proceedings cannot travel
beyond the contract. However, the learned Arbitrator has re-written
the terms of the contract by absolving the respondent from liability to
pay Minimum Guaranteed Amount. 10.27.In Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay v. Thermal
Engineering Corporation, Bombay , 1997(2) Arb.LR 361, the
Supreme Court held that the arbitrator has to act within the parameters
of the contract. Relevant portion is as under: (Emphasis supplied)

10.28.In State of Rajasthan v. Nav Bharat Constructions Co., (2006)
1 SCC 86, the Supreme Court held that the arbitrator cannot go
beyond the terms of the contract between the parties. Relevant
portion of the judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied)

10.29.In Food Corporation of India v. M/s. Chandu Construction,
(2007) 4 SCC 697, the Supreme Court held that the arbitrator is a
creature of the agreement between the parties and has to operate
within the four corners of the agreement. Relevant portion of the said OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 73 of 95 judgment is reproduced hereunder: "11. It is trite to say that the arbitrator being a creature of the
 agreement between the parties, he has to operate within the
 four corners of the agreement and if he ignores the specific
 terms of the contract, it would be a question of jurisdictional
 error on the face of the award, falling within the ambit of legal
 misconduct which could be corrected by the Court. We may,
 however, hasten to add that if the arbitrator commits an error
 in the construction of contract, that is an error within his
 jurisdiction. But, if he wanders outside the contract and deals
 with matters not allotted to him, he commits a jurisdictional
 error (see Associated Engg. Co. v. Govt. of A.P. , ( 1991) 4 SCC
 665 and Rajasthan State Mines & Minerals Ltd. v. Eastern
 Engg. Enterprises , (1999) 9 SCC 283). 12. In this context, a reference can usefully be made to the
 observations of this Court in Alopi Parshad & Sons Ltd. v.
 Union of India AIR 1960 SC 588 wherein it was observed that
 the Contract Act does not enable a party to a contract to ignore
 the express covenants thereof, and to claim payment of
 consideration for performance of the contract at rates different
 from the stipulated rates, on some vague plea of equity. The
 Court went on to say that in India, in the codified law of
 contracts, there is nothing which justifies the view that a
 change of circumstances, "completely outside the
 contemplation of parties" at the time when the contract was
 entered into will justify a court, while holding the parties bound
 by the contract, in departing from the express terms thereof. Similarly, in Naihati Jute Mills Ltd. v. Khyaliram Jagannath AIR 1968 SC 522 this Court had observed that where there is
 an express term, the court cannot find on construction of the
 contract, an implied term inconsistent with such express term 13. In Continental Construction Co. Ltd. v. State of M.P. (1988) 3 SCC 82 it was emphasized that not being a
 conciliator, an arbitrator cannot ignore the law or misapply it
 in order to do what he thinks is just and reasonable. He is a
 tribunal selected by the parties to decide their disputes
 according to law and so is bound to follow and apply the law,
 and if he does not, he can be set right by the court provided his
 error appears on the face of the award. 14. In Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. v. Annapurna Construction (2003) 8 SCC 154 while inter alia, observing that the arbitrator
 cannot act arbitrarily, irrationally, capriciously or independent
 of the contract, it was observed, thus: (SCC pp. 161-162, para 22)
 "22. There lies a clear distinction between an error within the
 jurisdiction and error in excess of jurisdiction. Thus, the role
 of the arbitrator is to arbitrate within the terms of the contract.
 He has no power apart from what the parties have given him
 under the contract. If he has travelled beyond the contract, he
 would be acting without jurisdiction, whereas if he has
 remained inside the parameters of the contract, his award
 cannot be questioned on the ground that it contains as error
 apparent on the face of the record." 15. Therefore, it needs little emphasis that an arbitrator
 derives his authority from the contract and if he acts in
 disregard of the contract, he acts without jurisdiction. A
 deliberate departure from contract amounts to not only
 manifest disregard of his authority or a misconduct on his part,
 but it may tantamount to a mala fide action (also see Associated
 Engg. Co. v. Govt. of A.P. (1991) 4 SCC 93)." (Emphasis supplied)

10.30.There is merit in the other grounds urged by the petitioner,
namely, that the respondent's claims are barred by principles of res
judicata/constructive res judicata; and the learned Arbitrator wrongly
dismissed the petitioner's application under Sections 16 and 17 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. However, considering that
the award is against the well-settled law, is patently illegal and the
Arbitrator acted without jurisdiction; this Court is not basing this
judgment on the other grounds urged by the petitioner and, therefore,
it is not necessary to record the findings with respect to the other
grounds urged by the petitioner. 11. Judicial precedents must be applied with reference to the facts
of the case OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 75 of 95 11.1. It is well settled that judicial precedent cannot be followed as a
statute and has to be applied with reference to the facts of the case
involved in it. The ratio of any decision has to be understood in the
background of the facts of that case. What is of the essence in a
decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what
logically follows from the various observations made in it. It has to be
remembered that a decision is only an authority for what it actually
decides. It is well settled that a little difference in facts or additional
facts may make a lot of difference in the precedential value of a
decision. The ratio of one case cannot be mechanically applied to
another case without regard to the factual situation and circumstances
of the two cases. 11.2. In Padma Sundara Rao v. State of Tamil Nadu (2002) 3 SCC
533, the Supreme Court held that the ratio of a judgment has to be
read in the context of the facts of the case and even a single fact can
make a difference. In para 9 of the said judgment, the Supreme Court
held as under: 11.3. In Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd v. N.R. Vairamani ,
(2004) 8 SCC 579, the Supreme Court held that a decision cannot be
relied on without considering the factual situation. The Supreme Court OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 76 of 95 observed as under:- 14 C-D)
 "The matter cannot, of course, be settled merely by treating the
 ipsissima verba of Willes, J., as though they were part of an Act
 of Parliament and applying the rules of interpretation
 appropriate thereto. This is not to detract from the great weight
 to be given to the language actually used by that most
 distinguished judge..." 10. In Home Office v. Dorset Yacht Co. [(1970) 2 All ER 294 : 11. Circumstantial flexibility, one additional or different fact
 may make a world of difference between conclusions in two OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 77 of 95 cases. Disposal of cases by blindly placing reliance on a
 decision is not proper. 12. The following words of Lord Denning in the matter of
 applying precedents have become locus classicus: 11.4. The respondent has relied upon Satyabrata Ghose v.
Mugneeram Bangur and Co. (supra), Sushila Devi v. Hari Singh ( supra), Jagatjit Distilling & Allied Industries v. Bharat Nidhi Ltd. (supra), D. Devi Bhagat v. J.B. Advani & Co. ( supra) and Sharda
Mahajan v. Maple Trading International P. Ltd. (supra) which are
not applicable to the present case and have been wrongly applied by
the learned Arbitrator: (supra) deals with a case of specific performance of an agreement to
sell in which the plea of frustration was raised by the seller. In that
case, the owner of a large tract of land in Greater Calcutta started a
scheme for development of a residential colony, named, Lake Colony
Scheme No.1 and agreed to sell a plot in that scheme on 5th August,
1940. The owner received Rs.101/- as earnest money from the
purchaser and the conveyance was agreed to be executed within one OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 78 of 95 month of the date of completion of roads on payment of balance sale
consideration. In November, 1943, the land was requisitioned due to
war. The owner, therefore, decided to treat the agreement to sell as
cancelled and gave the option to the purchaser to take back the earnest
money within one month. The purchaser filed a suit for specific
performance which was resisted on the ground of frustration under Section 56 of the Contract Act. The Supreme Court came to the
conclusion that it could not be said that the requisition by the military
vitally affected the contract or made its performance impossible. This
judgment does not help the respondent as this case relates to specific
performance of an agreement to sell and not a lease.
11.4.2. In Sushila Devi v. Hari Singh (supra), the owner invited
tender for lease of agricultural land in Tehsil Gujranwalla in January
1947. The respondent deposited the earnest money of Rs.1,000/- and
security of Rs.34,000/- for payment of rent. Before the execution of
the lease deed, Tehsil Gujranwalla became part of Pakistan as a result
of partition and the lessee sought refund of security deposit and the
earnest money which was declined by the owner. The lessee invoked Section 56 of the Contract Act. The Supreme Court held that the
agreement to lease frustrated under Section 56 . The Supreme Court
noted Raja Dhruv Dev Chand v. Raja Harmohinder (supra) and held
that there is clear distinction between completed conveyance and an
executory contract. The Supreme Court applied Section 56 because
the lease had not been executed and the agreement to lease had
frustrated before the execution of the lease. This judgment does not help the respondent as we are dealing
with a lease deed and not an agreement to lease. It is well settled that Section 56 can apply to agreement to lease but would not apply to the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 79 of 95 lease deed, which is a completed conveyance. Relevant portion of the
said judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied)
11.4.3. Jagatjit Distilling & Allied Industries v. Bharat Nidhi
Ltd. (supra) relates to a contract of bailment of goods and not with a
lease. 11.4.4. D. Devi Bhagat v. J.B. Advani & Co. (supra) relates to a
contract for export of lin seed oil. After the execution of the contract,
the export of lin seed oil was prohibited whereupon the defendant
pleaded frustration of contract which was allowed. This case also
does not relate to a lease. 11.4.5. In Sharda Mahajan v. Maple Trading International P. OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 80 of 95 Ltd. (supra), the petitioner made payment of Rs.60,000/- to the
respondent for purchase of gold coins. The respondent failed to
refund the said money whereupon the petitioner filed winding up
petition before the Delhi High Court. The respondent invoked Section
56 of the Contract Act on the ground that the respondents accounts
were frozen by the Enforcement Directorate. This case also does not
deal with a lease. 12. The respondent has raised false claims
12.1. In the statement of claim dated 2nd March, 2009 filed by the
respondent, it was pleaded by the respondent that due to phenomenal
increase in the project cost, it was not possible for the respondent to
go ahead with the construction of the proposed hotel if the minimum
guaranteed amounts mentioned in the supplemental agreement are
treated as binding. The respondent sought further three years time to
construct the hotel and exemption from payment of Minimum
Guaranteed Amount till then. Relevant portion of the Statement of
Claim are reproduced hereunder:- 13 years have elapsed out of the total tenure of the Lease
 Agreement of 30 years including the construction period of
 three years, since the execution of the said Lease Agreement
 and the Supplemental Agreement, and there has been a
 phenomenal increase in the project cost of the proposed hotel
 as envisaged by the parties. There is no time left for Leela to
 construct the hotel, set it up and recoup its investment during
 the remaining part of the term of the lease. 9. Market conditions for the hotel industry have
 deteriorated and are continuing to deteriorate in the context of
 the recession, which is a global phenomenon, and the threat of
 terrorist attacks of the kind that Mumbai witnessed on 26th OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 81 of 95 November, 2008. Leela made several representations to
 Airports Authority pointing out that it is not possible for Leela
 to go ahead with the construction of the proposed hotel if the
 Minimum Guaranteed Amounts as mentioned in the said
 Supplemental Agreement are treated as binding on Leela........" (Emphasis supplied)

12.2. The respondent's witness, Mr. V.P. Thakkar, in his affidavit by
way of evidence submitted his report on the viability of construction
of 150 rooms on the leased land and opined that project was not
viable. The witness took the opening date of 1st April, 2011 in para 5
of his affidavit. Paras 2 and 5 of the affidavit of Mr.V.P. Thakkar is
reproduced hereunder:- ... (Emphasis supplied)

12.3. During the course of arbitration proceedings, it came on record
and was also admitted by the respondent before this Court that the
respondent had utilised the Floor Space Index (FSI) of 1 (One) in
respect of the land in question to raise the additional construction on
their adjoining Hotel Leela Galleria prior to 2002 and, therefore, the
respondent did not have the required FSI to raise any construction on
the land in question. The petitioner placed on record the occupancy
certificate dated 15th November, 2002 (Ex.CW 2/2) in respect of the
construction raised by the respondent. 12.4. As per Clause 6 of the lease deed dated 7th February, 1996, the
respondent had FSI of 1 (One) to raise construction on the leased land OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 83 of 95 and the respondent had utilized that the same for raising construction
on the adjoining Hotel Leela Galleria prior to the filing of the
statement of claim in the year 2002. 12.5. Since the respondent had already raised the additional
construction on the adjoining Hotel Galleria by utilising the FSI of the
land in question prior to the filing of the statement of claim, the claim
made in the statement of claim that the construction was not viable
and further three years time be granted to raise the construction, are
absolutely false. 12.6. As per supplemental agreement dated 7th February, 1996, the
respondent was liable to pay the Royalty according to Schedule A or
7.5% of the gross turnover of the new hotel block whichever is higher.
Since the respondent had raised the construction in the Hotel Galleria
by using the FSI of the land in question, it was incumbent upon the
respondent to have placed on record the particulars of the gross
turnover of the construction raised by them. However, the respondent
chose to conceal the particulars of the gross turnover. The respondent
relied upon the hypothetical assumptions which were not relevant as
the particulars of gross turn over were available.
12.7. The respondent instituted a frivolous claim to challenge its
obligation to pay the Royalty (MGA) which was barred by well
settled law. The respondent claimed four reliefs mentioned in para
26(i)(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the statement of claim. However, at the
stage of final hearing, the respondent conceded that prayers made in
paras 26(i)(b), (c) and (d) of the statement of claim were not
maintainable and, therefore, the respondent gave up the said prayers.
The respondent pressed prayer 26(i)(a) which was also not
maintainable and barred by well settled law. The learned Arbitrator OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 84 of 95 who was bound by the terms of contract, had no jurisdiction to declare
the terms of the lease as having frustrated and directing the parties to
re-negotiate the terms. However, the respondent misled the learned
Arbitrator in pursuance to which the learned Arbitrator exercised the
jurisdiction not vested in him and declared that the payment of
Royalty by the respondent has become impossible under Section 56 of
the Contract Act w.e.f. 1st June, 2008 and, therefore, the parties may
enter into a new contract. 12.8. At the stage of final hearing before the learned Arbitrator, the
respondent did not dispute or deny its obligation to pay 7.5% of the
gross turnover stipulated in Clause 1 of the supplemental agreement
dated 7th February, 1996 but disputed the liability to pay the Minimum
Guaranteed Amount. Reference may be made to para 13 of the
written submissions dated 2nd June, 2012 filed before the learned
Arbitrator. However, by directing the parties to re-negotiate the terms,
the respondent has been discharged from even paying 7.5% of the
gross turnover. Consequences of making a false claim in Court 13. Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code provides that dishonestly
making a false claim in a Court is an offence punishable with
punishment of imprisonment upto two years and fine. Section 209 of
the Indian Penal Code is reproduced hereunder: 14. In H.S. Bedi v. National Highway Authority of India , 2016 OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 85 of 95 (155) DRJ 259, this Court examined the scope of Section 209 of the
Indian Penal Code and held as under: "15.1 Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code makes dishonestly
 making a false claim in a Court as an offence punishable with
 imprisonment upto two years and fine. 15.2 The essential ingredients of an offence under Section 209
 are: (i)The accused made a claim; (ii)The claim was made in a
 Court of Justice; (iii) The claim was false, either wholly or in
 part; (iv)That the accused knew that the claim was false; and (v)The claim was made fraudulently, dishonestly, or with intent
 to injure or to annoy any person. 15.3 A litigant makes a 'claim' before a Court of Justice for
 the purpose of Section 209 when he seeks certain relief or
 remedies from the Court and a 'claim' for relief necessarily
 impasses the ground for obtaining that relief. The offence is
 complete the moment a false claim is filed in Court.
 15.4 The word "claim" in Section 209 of the IPC cannot be
 read as being confined to the prayer clause. It means the
 "claim" to the existence or non-existence of a fact or a set of
 facts on which a party to a case seeks an outcome from the
 Court based on the substantive law and its application to facts
 as established. To clarify, the word "claim" would mean both
 not only a claim in the affirmative to the existence of fact(s) as,
 to illustrate, may be made in a plaint, writ petition, or an
 application; but equally also by denying an averred fact while
 responding (to the plaint/petition, etc.) in a written statement,
 counter affidavit, a reply, etc. Doing so is making a "claim"
 to the non-existence of the averred fact. A false "denial",
 except when the person responding is not aware, would
 constitute making a "claim" in Court under Section 209 IPC.
 15.5 The word 'claim' for the purposes of Section 209 of the
 Penal Code would also include the defence adopted by a
 defendant in the suit. The reason for criminalising false claims
 and defences is that the plaintiff as well as the defendant can
 abuse the process of law by deliberate falsehoods, thereby
 perverting the course of justice and undermining the authority
 of the law. 15.6 Whether the litigant's 'claim' is false, is not considered
 merely from whatever he pleads (or omits to plead): that would
 be to elevate form over substance. To make out the offence, the
 Court does not merely inspect how a litigant's pleadings have OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 86 of 95 been drafted or the case has been presented. The real issue to
 be considered is whether, all said and done, the litigant's
 action has a proper foundation which entitles him to seek
 judicial relief. 15.7 Section 209 was enacted to preserve the sanctity of the
 Court of Justice and to safeguard the due administration of law
 by deterring the deliberate making of false claims. Section 209 was intended to deter the abuse of Court process by all litigants
 who make false claims fraudulently, dishonestly, or with intent
 to injure or annoy. 15.8 False claims delay justice and compromise the sanctity of
 a Court of justice as an incorruptible administrator of truth and
 a bastion of rectitude. 15.9 Filing of false claims in Courts aims at striking a blow at
 the rule of law and no Court can ignore such conduct which
 has the tendency to shake public confidence in the judicial
 institutions because the very structure of an ordered life is put
 at stake. It would be a great public disaster if the fountain of
 justice is allowed to be poisoned by anyone resorting to filing of
 false claims. 15.10 The Courts of law are meant for imparting justice
 between the parties. One who comes to the Court, must come
 with clean hands. More often than not, process of the Court is
 being abused. Property-grabbers, tax-evaders, bank-loan-
 dodgers and other unscrupulous persons from all walks of life
 find the Court-process a convenient lever to retain the illegal
 gains indefinitely. A person, who's case is based on falsehood,
 has no right to approach the Court. He can be summarily
 thrown out at any stage of the litigation. 15.11 The disastrous result of leniency or indulgence in
 invoking Section 209 is that it sends out wrong signals. It
 creates almost a licence for litigants and their lawyers to
 indulge in such serious malpractices because of the confidence
 that no action will result. 15.12 Unless lawlessness which is all pervasive in the society is
 not put an end with an iron hand, the very existence of a
 civilized society is at peril if the people of this nature are not
 shown their place. Further if the litigants making false claims
 are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker would violate the
 law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
 uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its
 duties, if false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 87 of 95 effective for maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the
 Courts would lose its efficacy to the litigant public." (Emphasis supplied) 15.Imposition of Costs
15.1. In Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi , (2011) 8 SCC 249,
the Supreme Court has held that the Courts have to take into
consideration pragmatic realities and have to be realistic in imposing
the costs. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are
reproduced hereunder:- (Emphasis supplied)

15.2. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de
Sequeria (2012) 5 SCC 370, the Supreme Court held that heavy costs OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 88 of 95 and prosecution should be ordered in cases of false claims and
defences as under:- (Emphasis supplied)
15.3. In Messer Holdings Ltd. v. Shyam Madanmohan Ruia , [2010]
104 SCL 293(Bom), the Supreme Court imposed exemplary cost of
Rs.25 lakh on each of the three parties for loss of judicial time.
Relevant portion of the said judgment is as under: (Emphasis supplied)
15.4. In Harish Relan v. Kaushal Kumari Relan , 2016 II AD (Delhi)
571, the Division Bench of this Court considered the pronouncements
of the Supreme Court with respect to false claims as well as costs and
held that there is no limitation on the imposition of costs. Relevant
portion of the said judgment is as under. (Emphasis supplied) 16.Conclusion
16.1. The award is patently illegal as respondent's liability to pay the
Royalty (MGA) to the petitioner under the Transfer of Property Act is
absolute and unconditional; and the learned Arbitrator had no power
to discharge the respondent from paying the Royalty to the petitioner. 16.2. The award is against the well settled law that Section 56 of the
Contract Act is not applicable to leases as laid down by the three
Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Raja Dhruv Dev Chand v. Raja
Harmohinder (supra) and reiterated in T. Lakshmipathi v. P. OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 91 of 95 Nithyananda Reddy (supra). 16.3. Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act is a special law
on the doctrine of frustration of lease and it excludes the general law
contained in Section 56 of the Contract Act as held by the Supreme
Court in Kedar Lall v. Hari Lall (supra). Reference be made to Section 4 of the Transfer of Property Act, Mahadeo Prosad Shaw v.
Calcutta Dyeing and Cleaning Co. (supra) and Amir Chand v. Chuni
Lal (supra). 16.4. Section 108(e) of the Transfer of Property Act incorporates the
doctrine of frustration of leases in case of destruction or rendering the
subject premises unfit for use by fire, tempest, flood, violence or other
irresistible force. In such cases, Section 108(e) gives the option to the
lessee to treat the lease as void. However, if the lessee does not
exercise the option, the lease continues and the lessee remains liable
to pay the rent to the landlord. The three Judge Bench of the Supreme
Court have discussed Section 108(e) in Raja Dhruv Dev Chand v.
Raja Harmohinder (supra). Reference be also made to Mahadeo
Prosad Shaw v. Calcutta Dyeing and Cleaning Co. ( supra) and Hind
Rubber Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. T.M. Bagasarwalla (supra). 16.5. Even assuming Section 56 applies to leases, the award is
contrary to the well settled law that commercial hardship does not
frustrate the contract as laid down in Alopi Parshad & Sons v. Union
of India (supra), Panna Lal v. State of Rajasthan (supra), State Bank
of Haryana v. Jage Ram ( supra) Har Shankar v. Deputy Excise and
Taxation Commissioner ( supra), New Bihar Biri Leaves Co. v. State
of Bihar ( supra), C. Bepathumma v. V.S. Kadambolithaya , Assistant
Excise Commissioner v. Issac Peter ( supra), Bharti Cellular Limited OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 92 of 95 v. Union of India ( supra), Mumbai International Airport Pvt. Ltd. v.
Golden Chariot Airport I ( supra), Track Innovations India Pvt. Ltd.
v. Union Of India ( supra), C.J. International Hotels Ltd. v. NDMC ;
and N.D.M.C. v. Prominent Hotels Ltd. (supra). 16.6. The award is also contrary to the well settled law that the
Arbitrator is bound by the terms of the contract and cannot go beyond
the terms of the contract as held by the Supreme Court in Food
Corporation of India v. Chandu Construction (supra), State of
Rajasthan v. Nav Bharat Construction Co. ( supra) and Municipal
Corporation of Greater Bombay v. Thermal Engineering
Corporation, Bombay (supra). However, the learned Arbitrator has
re-written the terms of the contract by discharging the respondent
from the liability to pay the Royalty (MGA) and directed the parties to
renegotiate the terms of the contract. 16.7. The award is against the justice as well as morality. The
obligation of the respondent to pay the Royalty (MGA) is absolute
and the respondent is not entitled to plead impossibility as an excuse
for non-payment of the Royalty (MGA). If the payment of the
Royalty (MGA) had become onerous/unviable, the lessee had the
option to determine the lease under clause 26 of the lease deed by 180
days' notice. However, the lessee cannot seek discharge from the
liability to pay the Royalty to the petitioner. 16.8. Even assuming that Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act
applies to leases, the lessee has to surrender the lease and pay the
Royalty (MGA) upto the date of handing over of the possession. The
respondent cannot continue in possession and seek discharge from the
payment of Royalty (MGA). Even under Section 108(e) of the OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 93 of 95 Transfer of Property Act , the lessee upon exercising the option to treat
the lease as void, is bound to surrender the possession and make the
payment of the rent/premium upto the date of the surrender. 16.9. Even assuming that Section 56 of the Contract Act applies to
leases, the whole lease would become void and the lessee would be
liable to surrender the leased property and clear the liability of
Royalty (MGA) upto the date of surrender under Section 65 of the
Contract Act. 16.10.Even assuming, there was recession in the hotel industry in
2008, it cannot be said that the recession was permanent and would
continue for the rest of the period of lease. Frustration cannot be used
as a device to avoid a bad bargain. The contract between parties was
for a period of 30 years and it was but natural and foreseeable by both
the parties that there would be various economic turmoil over a period
as long as 30 years. Reference be made to Alanduraiappar Koil
Chithakkadu v. T.S.A. Hamid (supra). 16.11.The statement of claim instituted by respondent is gross abuse
and misuse of process of law. The statement of claim was not even
maintainable in law and the learned Arbitrator ought to have rejected
the same at the outset. The respondent's claim does not have any
foundation, which would have entitled it to seek any judicial relief. 16.12.The impugned award has resulted in a windfall in favour of the
respondent, more as a premium for their own defaults and breaches.
The respondent has enjoyed the subject property without paying the
Royalty (MGA) and the outstanding dues according to the petitioner,
have accumulated to the tune of more than Rs.258 crores. 16.13.The Court is of the prima facie view that the respondent has OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 94 of 95 made a false claim before this Court which amounts to an offence
under Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code. However, before
initiating the action against the respondent, two weeks' time is granted
to enable the respondent to introspect and file an undertaking to pay
the arrears of Royalty (MGA) to the petitioner and not to resort to any
frivolous proceedings/action in future. In the event of failure of the
respondent to file such an undertaking within two weeks, the
petitioner is at liberty to file an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C. 16.14.This case warrants imposition of costs on the respondent in
terms of the principles laid down in Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala
Devi ( supra), Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra) and Messer Holdings Ltd. v. Shyam
Madanmohan Ruia ( supra) and Harish Relan v. Kaushal Kumari
Relan , (supra). 16.15.For the reasons discussed hereinabove, the petition is allowed
and the impugned award is set aside with costs of Rs.2,00,000/-
(Rupees Two Lakh Only) to be paid by the respondent to the
petitioner within a period of two months from today. J.R. MIDHA, J. JULY 15, 2016
Dk/Rsk/Dev OM.P. No.1206/2012 Page 95 of 95