1. The case of the prosecution, in brief, is that on 04.07.2018,

 Daily Diary Entry No. 81A was received, reporting that the
 caller's sister had committed suicide at H. No. R-3, B-8,

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 1 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:23
 +0530
 Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi. Pursuant
 thereto, the Investigating Officer, Sub-Inspector Kulbir,
 reached the spot and found one lady, namely Neelam
 Sharma, aged about 24 years, hanging on the first floor of
 the said house. Her tongue was protruding from her mouth,
 and she appeared to have committed suicide by using a
 chunni as a ligature. The chunni was tied around her neck,
 with the other end fastened to a ceiling fan, and her feet
 were touching the bed. No suicide note was recovered
 from the spot. Sh. Ateesh Sharma and Sh. Brijesh Sharma,
 the father and brother of the deceased respectively, were
 present at the scene. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate,
 Dwarka, also conducted proceedings at the spot under Section 176 Cr.P.C. However, father and brother of
 deceased refused to give any statement at that time, stating
 that they would do so after consulting their family
 members. The crime team was called at the spot which
 inspected the scene, and took photographs. Thereafter, the
 dead body was shifted to DDU Mortuary for preservation. 2. It is further case of the prosecution that, on the following

 day, the father of the deceased (complainant) gave a
 statement before the Executive Magistrate. He stated that
 his daughter, Neelam (since deceased), had been married
 to the accused-Pankaj Pathak on 12.03.2018. For the
 marriage, he had incurred expenses amounting to Rs. 25
 lakhs which included a fixed deposit of Rs. 7.5 lakhs, a
 cheque of Rs. 2.5 lakhs in the name of Neelam, gold
 ornaments and Rs. 15 lakhs spent on food served to
 relatives and guests. Complainant further stated that about

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 2 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:22
 +0530
 one month after the marriage Neelam began to be
 subjected to harassment. Her mother-in-law and her
 husband would beat her. At the time of the birth of his
 grandson, Neelam's mother-in-law asked her to bring
 money from her parental home. The accused Pankaj also
 demanded a sum of Rs. 1 lakh for a tourism trip through
 Neelam which the complainant duly provided.
 Complainant also bore the expenses of the ring ceremony
 which he met by taking a loan. After the tourism trip,
 Neelam was allegedly not given food for three consecutive
 days. When he requested Pankaj to take Neelam to a
 doctor, he merely gave her some juice and took her back
 home without arranging proper medical treatment. 3. It is further case of the prosecution that on the next day, the

 condition of the Neelam became worse and accused Pankaj
 asked him to reach Tara Hospital. Complainant waited in
 Tara Hospital for about 45 minutes but accused did not
 reach there. Complainant visited house of accused persons
 and then he along with accused brought Neelam to Tara
 Hospital. His wife and daughter stayed at the hospital
 during night but mother-in-law of Neelam did not come. 4. It is further the case of the prosecution that on the
 following day, accused Pankaj asked Neelam to bring Rs.
 20 lakhs from her father stating that the amount was
 required to be given to his behnoi for the purchase of land.
 A further demand of Rs. 20 lakhs was made for purchasing
 a car as the same had not been given at the time of
 marriage. Neelam, however, asked the complainant not to
 give any money, stating that the accused would kill her

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 3 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:29
 +0530
 after taking the amount. On 04.07.2018, at around 12:00
 p.m., accused Pankaj took Neelam away and by about 5:00
 p.m., the complainant came to know that she had been
 killed by hanging. When the complainant reached the
 house of the accused persons, Neelam's mother-in-law was
 present but did not disclose anything, merely asking him to
 see for himself. The complainant then saw Neelam
 hanging from the ceiling fan. He tried to call the accused
 Pankaj but his phone was found switched off. It is further
 alleged that the accused Bhagwan Devi used to abuse
 Neelam by calling her "Randi" and had openly stated, in
 the complainant's presence, that she did not like her. On
 one occasion, when a vegetable prepared by Neelam got
 burnt, Bhagwan Devi slapped her twice. It is also alleged
 that whenever accused Pankaj came home without having
 dinner, Neelam would serve him food even at about 1:00
 a.m. Due to this, she was sometimes unable to wake up
 early in the morning, which led to quarrels instigated by
 Bhagwan Devi. As a result, the present case was registered
 and an investigation was initiated. 5. Vide order dated 2 8 . 0 9 . 2 0 1 8 , copy of the charge-
 sheet under Section 207 Cr.P.C was supplied to the
 accused persons by the order of Ld. ACMM. Vide order
 dated 23.10.2018, the present case was committed to the
 Court of Sessions under Section 209 Cr.P.C. 6. Supplementary charge-sheet with FSL report was filed by
 the IO on 26.2.2019. 7. Vide order dated 4.5.2019, the Ld. Predecessor of this
 Court was pleased to frame charges under Sections u/S

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 4 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:26
 +0530
 498A/304B/34 IPC against both the accused persons to
 which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 8. To prove its case, prosecution has examined 12 witnesses.
 The testimonies of prosecution witnesses along with its
 nature has been discussed briefly in the following
 paragraphs. 9. PW-1 Attish Kumar is father of the deceased Neelam who
 deposed that he had three children namely Rakesh, Brijesh
 and daughter Neelam who has expired. Neelam was
 married to accused Pankaj Pathak on 12.3.2018 at Mohan
 Garden. Accused Pankaj Pathak was employed in an
 Insurance Company at Gurgaon. PW1 deposed that he
 spent about Rs.25 lakhs in the marriage and furniture, gold
 jewellery, Air Conditioner, utensils etc were given in the
 marriage. Everything was fine till one month after the
 marriage. Thereafter, accused Pankaj Pathak and his
 mother started to give beatings to Neelam. At the time of
 birth of his grandson from his elder daughter-in-law (wife
 of Rakesh), Neelam stayed in her maternal house for about
 10-12 days. Before going back to her matrimonial home,
 Neelam told him that her mother-in-law had asked her
 "achhe se paise le kar aana". Accordingly, PW1 gave Rs. 1
 lakh in cash. Accused Pankaj also demanded Rs.1 lakh
 through Neelam for going on a tour. PW1 further deposed
 that he dealt in vegetables in Keshopur Mandi and is
 illiterate. He took loan of Rs. 1 lakh from one Safakat, who
 worked in the same Mandi, and gave it to Neelam who
 took it at her matrimonial home. 10.As per PW1, on one occasion, his son Brijesh told that

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 5 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:26
 +0530
 condition of Neelam was bad and, accordingly, he went at
 the house of accused persons. Accused Pankaj and his
 mother were sitting on sofa and Neelam was sitting on
 floor. Neelam met her and while weeping told him that she
 has not been given any food for last three days. PW1 asked
 accused Pankaj to take Neelam to a doctor but he brought
 her back after getting her juice only. On the next day,
 Brijesh received a phone call from accused Pankaj stating
 that condition of Neelam was bad and asked us to reach
 Tara Hospital. However, when they reached Tara Hospital,
 Neelam was not found there. PW1 with his wife went to
 the matrimonial home of Neelam and then they all took
 Neelam to Tara Hospital where she was admitted. Mother-
 in-law of Neelam did not visit hospital due to which wife
 of PW1 had to remain in the hospital during night hours.
 Next date, Neelam was discharged from the hospital and
 accused Pankaj took Neelam to his home. On the next day,
 Neelam told PW1 "unke behnoi aaye huye hai, Pankaj nei
 mujhse bola hai ki mera behnoi jameen jaydaad lenge,
 unhe bees lakh rupaye ki jarurat hai aur mujhe bees lakh ki
 gaadi chahiye, tere papa ne dahej mei gaadi nahi di, nujhe
 gaadi dilwao." PW1 showed his financial incapacity for
 the same but he told Neelam that he could get vehicle on
 installments. Next day, accused Pankaj took Neelam back.
 On the same day at about 5 PM, he came to know that
 Neelam had been killed by hanging. PW1 and his wife
 reached the matrimonial house of Neelam. On reaching
 there, they found mother-in-law of Neelam siting and
 when they asked about Neelam, she told "Jaakar dekh le". PW1 climbed upstairs and found Neelam hanging with
 ceiling fan. One Ram Gopal, who was mediator in the
 marriage was present there. Police reached the spot and
 carried out investigation. At that time, Ram Gopal received
 a phone call and after coming to know about the death of
 Neelam, he said "rafa dafa karwao". PW1 proved his
 statement made before SDM as Ex.PW1/A; and memo of
 the handing over of the dead body as Ex.PW1/B. 11.PW1 was declared partly hostile and was allowed to be
 cross-examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the State. During his
 cross-examination, PW1 admitted that mother-in-law of
 Neelam had beaten her in his presence. He further
 admitted that Neelam had told him, "inko paisa mat dena,
 das saal ka viza paise le kar banwayega, aur mujhe ya to
 chor jayega ya mujhe maar dega". PW1 voluntarily
 deposed that Neelam had told the said fact one day prior to
 her death. He further admitted the fact that he had told
 SDM in his statement that mother-in-law of Neelam used
 to call her 'Randi' and had also stated in his presence that
 she did not like Neelam. As per PW1, Neelam told his
 mother that when vegetable got burnt, she was given two
 slaps by her mother-in-law. PW1 further admitted that in
 his statement to SDM, he had stated that mother-in-law of
 Neelam used to quarrel with her on the issue of awaking
 late despite the fact that she slept at 3 A.M after serving
 food to accused Pankaj Pathak. PW1 correctly identified
 both the accused persons who were present in the court. 12. PW1 Attish Kumar was cross-examined at length by Ld.
 Counsel for both the accused persons. During his cross- examination, PW1 stated that he is illiterate and cannot tell
 any specific date when his daughter was beaten by accused
 persons. Neelam disclosed him that she was beaten by her
 in-laws when she came to his house. PW1 did not lodge
 any complaint against accused persons. He did not take
 any action except telling accused persons not to beat his
 daughter. PW1 stated that he did not have any receipt with
 him for the expenses of Rs.25 lakhs. PW1 admitted that
 accused Pankaj came along with Neelam in the hospital to
 see his newly born grandson. He further stated that in the
 presence of his family members, he gave Rs.1 lakh to
 Neelam on his own and without any pressure from the side
 of accused persons. Distance between his house and house
 of accused persons is about 1.5 kilometer. PW1 had taken
 loan of Rs.1 lakh from one Shafakat. PW1 stated that he
 cannot say whether the relationship between accused
 Pankaj and Neelam was cordial but he can say that if they
 were going on a pleasure trip they must be enjoying good
 relationship. PW1 showed his ignorance about the ailment
 for which she was admitted to hospital. PW1 stated that he
 did not know whether Neelam was admitted in the hospital
 due to high fever. PW1 further stated that just before a day
 prior to her death, Neelam came to their house asking
 money of Rs.20 lakhs for brother-in-law of her husband.
 PW1 did not ask accused Pankaj about the demand of
 money by him for his brother-in-law. PW1 did not lodge
 any police complaint regarding this demand. At the same
 time, Neelam informed him that accused Pankaj was
 asking money of Rs. 20 lakhs for car. PW1 did not confirm

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 8 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:23
 +0530
 from accused Pankaj whether he had asked for this money. 13.PW1 further stated that he is not aware whether Neelam
 was student of B.A. 2nd Year Sociology from Meerut or she
 was having her examination on 3rd and 4th July, 2018 or
 whether Neelam came to their house in the morning of
 3.7.2018. However, he voluntarily stated that he had gone
 to Mandi in the early morning. PW1 denied the suggestion
 that his family did not want that Neelam should study or
 that Neelam was under acute depression as she was not
 allowed to appear in examination and to pursue her
 education. PW1 admitted that before marriage, Neelam
 was operated, however, he denied the suggestion that in
 surgery her ovary was removed or that for the said reason
 she was unable to conceive. PW1 further admitted that
 accused Pankaj stayed in Tara Hospital with Neelam
 during her hospitalization due to high fever. PW1 denied
 the suggestion that he had not given statement to
 Magistrate on the date of incident and sought time to give
 statement on next day after discussion with his family
 members as there were no demand of dowry or any cruelty
 committed by accused persons. PW1 further denied the
 suggestion that as there was no demand of dowry by
 accused persons from his daughter that is why he did not
 stop Neelam from going to her matrimonial home. 14.PW2 Brijesh Sharma is the brother of deceased Neelam
 who has corroborated the testimony of his father PW1
 Attish Sharma on several aspects. He deposed that after
 one month of marriage, Neelam came to their home and
 stated to him and their parents that accused is demanding a

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 9 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:30
 +0530
 car. PW2 promised that car can be arranged by taking joint
 loan. Thereafter, accused Pankaj refused to take car but
 demanded Rs.20 lakhs and stated that he would purchase
 the car on his own. When PW2 showed his inability for
 the said demand, accused Pankaj stated, "shaadi me har ek
 ko gadi milti hai." At another occasion, Neelam had told
 him that she was not provided food for the last three days.
 Neelam also told that she was given beatings by accused
 Pankaj and her mother in law due to unlawful demands. As
 per PW2, both accused persons pressurized Neelam to
 break the FD of Rs.7/7.5 lakhs which was in her name and
 give the amount to them. PW2 further deposed that one or
 two days prior to incident, he received telephonic call from
 accused Pankaj stating that Neelam is not feeling well and
 required hospitalization. PW2 asked accused Pankaj to get
 Neelam admitted in hospital on his own as he (PW2) was
 out of station. Later on, PW2 came to know that Neelam
 was got admitted in hospital by his parents and the
 accused. Neelam was discharged from the hospital on the
 following day. When he made call to accused Pankaj to
 know the health status of Neelam, he replied, " Neelam ko
 yaha dekhne wala koi nah hai, isko apne ghar le jaao. " 15. PW2 further deposed that on 04.07.2018, accused Pankaj
 visited his home and demanded some expenses incurred in
 the hospital. Thereafter, PW2 handed over Rs.50,000/- in
 cash to Pankaj and he left his home with Neelam. On the
 very same day at about 1 p.m., Neelam telephoned him and
 told that accused Pankaj and his mother started quarreling
 with her and Neelam told, "Me thak gayi hoon". PW2
 further deposed that on the very same day at about 5.30
 p.m., accused Pankaj telephoned and asked him to bring
 Neelam to their home as she was not responding to his

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 11 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:22
 +0530
 phone and he was in office at that time. Thereafter, PW2
 went to the matrimonial home of Neelam and he knocked
 at the main gate of house of Neelam was opened. At the
 gate, one person/ neighbour was standing and the mother-
 in-law of Neelam was found standing at the staircase. He
 asked about the whereabouts of Neelam from the mother in
 law but she did not respond. Thereafter, he went inside the
 door of the hall and he knocked the door of hall but there
 was no one to respond. Thereafter, he pushed the door of
 the hall and went inside. PW2 noted that there was
 extraordinary cooling inside the hall. He noticed that the
 door of room of Neelam was opened and he found Neelam
 hanging in the room. PW2 further deposed that behind the
 mother-in-law of Neelam came there and started arguing
 with him. PW2 made call at 100 number. Thereafter, one
 neighbour of Pankaj asked him to compromise the matter.
 He had quarrel with the said neighbour of Pankaj. In the
 meantime, Police came and investigated the matter. 16.As per PW2, during the matrimonial life of Neelam, the
 sister of Pankaj used to harass her also on the aspect of not
 bringing sufficient dowry. Neelam was shifted to DDU
 Hospital for postmortem. PW2 proved his statement
 recorded by the Executive Magistrate as Ex. PW2/A; dead
 body identification memo as Ex. PW2/B, seizure memo of
 wedding invitation card, photocopies of bills/invoices of
 Voltas AC & Sony LED 40 inch, photocopy of the FD of
 ICICI Bank in favour of Neelam, two photographs of
 marriage of Pankaj and Neelam as Ex. PW2/C (colly.).
 PW2 deposed that Neelam was harassed by the accused

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 12 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:26
 +0530
 persons due to non-fulfillment of their unlawful demand of
 dowry. 17. In his cross-examination conducted by Ld. Defence
 Counsel, PW2 was shown the document-Ex.PW2/DA in
 which amount of Rs.7,51,930/- which was the maturity
 amount of the FD in the name of deceased Neelam Sharma
 and after seeing the same PW2 stated that the said amount
 was credited in his account as he was the nominee in the
 said FDR. PW2 further admitted that from the day of
 marriage of Neelam till recording of his statement by SDM
 on 5.7.2018, there is no SMS, WhatsApp message, email,
 complaint or any other record to show that accused Pankaj
 ever demanded any vehicle from Neelam, his parents or
 from himself. PW2 stated that his father had told him that
 Neelam was not given food for three days. PW2
 voluntarily stated that it happened because his father gave
 FDR of Rs.7 lakhs and cheque of Rs.2.5 lakhs in the name
 of Neelam and the cheque was never encashed and accused
 persons were pressurising Neelam for encashment of FDR
 and that is why she was not given food for three days.
 PW2 admitted that he did not tell this fact in his statement
 before SDM. PW2 further admitted that he withdrew all
 the money from account of Neelam and closed the
 account. There was no Will of Neelam. PW2 further stated
 that before hospitalization of Neelam in Tarak Hospital,
 she visited her parental home where she was having low
 BP and was not having any other problem. PW2 did not
 visit the hospital at the time of discharge of Neelam.
 Accused Pankaj had paid the hospital bill. There is no

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 13 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:24
 +0530
 record in written or otherwise whatsoever that any dowry
 demand was ever made by the accused persons from him,
 Neelam or their parents. PW2 further stated that prior to
 2-3 years of marriage, Neelam used to suffer pain in her
 stomach with cyst (Ganth) for the removal of which the
 said operation was performed. PW2 admitted that Neelam
 was engaged with Balvinder and again said that Neelam
 was intended to be engaged with said Balvinder. PW2
 could not tell the name of college in which Neelam was
 studying in Gaziabad. 18.PW2 denied the suggestion that when Neelam had
 informed Pankaj regarding removal of ovary, he and his
 father scolded Neelam badly and had bitter fight with her
 and stated that due to removal of ovary, Pankaj will
 abandon her. PW2 further denied the suggestion that
 Neelam had told him and her family members that she was
 under immense stress and pressure because her family
 concealed the fact of removal of her ovary from her
 husband and his family and that she will commit suicide.
 PW2 further denied the suggestion that he told Neelam that
 if she wanted to commit suicide, she should do so in her
 husband's house. PW2 stated that when he visited the
 matrimonial home of Neelam on 4.7.2018, he had not
 broken any door or its latches (kundi) and the door was
 already open. PW2 stated that he had not seen the message
 which was recorded by Neelam in her mobile phone. PW2
 further denied the suggestion that after Neelam disclosed
 the fact of removal of ovary to her husband, she was under 19.PW3 Punit Kulshreshta was the then Executive Magistrate
 who conducted inquest proceedings and recorded
 statements of PW1 Attish Kumar and PW2 Brijesh
 Sharma. PW3 also wrote a letter to HoD, DDU Hospital to
 conduct post-mortem of deceased and has proved the same
 as Ex.PW3/A. In his brief cross-examination by Ld.
 Defence Counsel, he stated that deceased committed
 suicide on 4.7.20178 and statement of both the witnesses
 was recorded on 5.7.2018. 20. PW4 is Ram Gopal who deposed that he mediated in the
 marriage of Neelam and accused Pankaj. The marriage
 function was well organized in March 2018. About a
 month or two after the marriage, Attish Sharma told him
 that mother-in-law of Neelam was harassing her. Then he
 spoke to the mother of Pankaj and told her as to why
 Neelam was feeling harassed. Mother of Pankaj had a
 complaint that Neelam was not taking care of household
 work properly. After about a month PW4 again received
 complaint from father of Neelam. Then he called Pankaj
 who attended the phone but he did not meet PW4. PW4
 further deposed that he advised Pankaj to manage his
 family affairs. As per PW4, though he received complaints
 from the father of Neelam but none of such complaints
 were related to demand of dowry by the accused persons. 21. PW4 was declared hostile and was cross-examined by Ld.

 Addl. PP for State. In the cross-examination, PW4 stated
 that he did not remember whether Attish Sharma told him
 that accused persons were beating and taunting Neelam for
 want of dowry. PW4 admitted that Attish Sharma informed
 him that due to overcooking of Okra potato vegetable,
 mother-in-law of Neelam gave beatings to her. Attish
 Sharma did not tell him that he gave money to Pankaj for
 the hospital bill and honeymoon expenses for which he
 was being pressurized. As per PW4, Attish Sharma told
 him that accused Bhagwan Devi did not like Neelam but
 due to greediness she made Neelam her daughter-in-law.
 Atish Sharma also told him that accused Bhagwan Devi
 used to taunt Neelam and accused Pankaj used to support

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 16 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:30
 +0530
 his mother in torturing Neelam. Atish Sharma did not tell
 him that due to torture by Bhagwan Devi on account of
 dowry demand Neelam committed suicide. 22. PW4 further deposed that before marriage, accused

 Bhagwan Devi told him that she had not even accepted
 proposals of marriage who offered to pay Rs. 20-22 lakhs
 and she will not accept marriage proposals less than this
 amount. PW4 kept this condition before Attish Sharma.
 Attish Sharma told him to inform accused not to worry and
 he will spend more than the said amount in the marriage. 23.In his brief cross-examination conducted by Ld. Defence
 Counsel, PW4 admitted that accused persons did not
 complaint anything to him in respect of marriage function
 or the amount spent in the function. He further admitted
 that as per his knowledge accused persons never spoke
 about dowry after marriage of Pankaj and Neelam. 24.PW-5 is Shafaqat Khan who deposed that he knew Attish
 Pandit since his childhood and they both have shops in
 Keshopur Subzi Mandi. Attish Pandit was facing financial
 crises after marriage of his daughter Neelam as he had
 spent more money beyond his capacity in the marriage of
 his daughter. Thereafter, he took Rs. 1 lakh cash as loan
 from him for further handing over the same to his daughter
 as it was informed by Attish Pandit to PW5 that the said
 amount has been demanded by his son-in-law through
 Neelam. After sometime, the said amount was returned to
 him. 25.In his brief cross-examination by Ld. Defence Counsel,
 PW5 stated that his staff, brother and son were present at

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 17 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:25
 +0530
 the time of giving loan to Attish. The loan was given after
 about two months of the marriage and the same was
 returned after about 7-8 months. PW5 denied the
 suggestion that he is deposing falsely at the behest of
 complainant. 26. PW-6 is SI Satyawan who deposed that on 04.07.2018 on

 receipt of DD No. 81A, he reached at H. No. R-3, B-8,
 Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi where at the first
 floor one lady namely Neelam Sharma wife of accused
 Pankaj Pathak was found hanging with the ceiling fan with
 red colour chunni. The said lady was found dead. Her
 tongue was coming out; one chunni was lying on the bed;
 one plastic chair, one mobile phone and one wooden plank
 piece were also lying there. Inner side latch of the door
 was found broken. No suicide note was found at the spot.
 Father and brother of deceased were found at the spot. On
 query from them it was revealed that deceased Neelam
 Sharma was married to Pankaj Pathak on 12.03.2018. PW6
 further deposed that SDM, Dwarka was telephonically
 informed regarding the incident. PSI Kulbir and Inspector
 Baljeet Singh reached the spot. Crime Team along with
 photographer was called at the spot. The place of incident
 was inspected by officials of Mobile Crime Team. Father,
 brother and other relatives of deceased were inquired by
 the IO in his presence but on that day Brijesh Sharma did
 not give his statement to the SDM Dwarka. The dead
 body of deceased was taken down from the ceiling fan.
 Mobile phone, pen drive, piece of chunni and broken piece
 of latch were taken into police possession. Thereafter, he

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 18 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:24
 +0530
 took the dead body of deceased to the emergency of DDU
 Hospital where MLC was prepared by the doctor
 concerned and dead body was got preserved in the
 mortuary of DDU Hospital. PW6 has proved seizure memo
 of broken pieces of latch as Ex. PW6/A, the seizure memo
 of mobile phone, pen drive and red colour piece of chunni
 as Ex. PW6/B; hook of latch and two screws as Ex. P-2
 (Colly.); mobile phone as Ex. P-3; pen drive as Ex. P-4;
 and Piece of Chunni as Ex. P-5. In his single line cross-
 examination conducted by Ld. Defence Counsel, PW6
 denied the suggestion that he has not conducted the
 investigation of the present case fairly and properly. 27. PW7 is SI Kulbir who deposed that on 04.07.2018 on

 receipt of DD No. 81A, he reached the spot i.e. H. No.
 R-3, B-8, Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi, where
 at the first floor one lady namely Neelam Sharma was
 found hanging with the ceiling fan with red colour chunni.
 Tongue of deceased was coming out from her mouth. On
 the bed, one chunni, one plastic chair, one mobile phone
 and one piece of wooden plank (patra) were lying. During
 inspection of the spot, no suicide note was found. Brother
 and father of deceased were also present at the spot and on
 query made from them, he came to know that deceased
 Neelam Sharma was married to Pankaj Pathak on
 12.03.2018. SDM Dwarka was telephonically informed
 about the incident who reached the spot. Inspector Baljeet
 Singh along with Inspector Raman Kumar also came at the
 spot. Crime team and photographer were called. Place of
 incident was inspected by officials of Mobile Crime Team. As per PW7, at that time family members of the deceased
 did not give any statement. The dead body of deceased was
 taken down from the ceiling fan after cutting the chunni by
 which it was hanging with ceiling fan. Mobile phone, pen
 drive, piece of chunni and one broken piece of latch were
 taken into police possession. Dead body of deceased was
 got preserved in the mortuary of DDU Hospital through SI
 Satyawan. 28. PW7 further deposed that on 05.07.2018, Sh. Atish Kumar

 Sharma and Sh. Brijesh Sharma, father and brother of
 deceased respectively, were produced before Executive
 Magistrate, Dwarka for recording their statements. On the
 basis of statement of father of the deceased, the SDM
 concerned gave directions to register the present case.
 Thereupon, he prepared rukka and proved the same as Ex.
 PW7/A. Investigation of the present case was entrusted to
 Inspector Baljeet Singh and during investigation on
 06.07.2018, he was called at the spot by the IO where a
 site plan was prepared by the IO at his instance in the
 presence of accused Pankaj Pathak. PW7 has corroborated
 the testimony of PW6 in proving seizure of hook of latch
 and two screws, mobile phone, pen drive and piece of
 chunni, already Ex.P2, P3, P4 and P5 respectively. 29.In his cross-examination conducted by Ld. Defence
 Counsel, PW7 stated that it took about one hour in
 recording of statements by Executive Magistrate. PW7
 admitted that on 4.7.2018 i.e the day of incident, father and
 brother of deceased did not give any statement. PW7
 denied the suggestion that statement was not recorded on

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 20 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:27
 +0530
 the date of incident because complainant and his son did
 not make any allegation in respect of dowry demand or
 that their statements were recorded later on being an
 afterthought. 30. PW-8 ASI Rakesh Kumar proved DD No.81A as
 Ex.PW8/A; endorsement on rukka as Ex.PW8/B; FIR as
 Ex.PW8/C and certificate u/s 65B Indian Evidence Act as
 Ex.PW8/D. In his cross-examination conducted by Ld.
 Defence Counsel, he denied the suggestion that he had not
 conducted the fair investigation. 31. PW-9 Ct. Amar Chand Meena proved arrest memo of

 accused as Ex.PW9/A; his personal search memo as Ex.
 PW9/B; and his disclosure statement as Ex.PW9/C. PW9
 further deposed that accused was taken for his medical
 examination by him. On 19.09.2018, PW-9 again joined
 the investigation of the present case and on that day
 complainant provided some documents which were seized
 by the IO vide memo already Ex. PW2/C. PW9 further
 deposed that on 06.07.2018 he collected blood sample and
 viscera box of the deceased from DDU hospital which he
 handed over to the IO vide seizure memo - Ex. PW9/D. 32.In his cross-examination conducted by Ld. Defence
 Counsel, PW9 denied the suggestion that accused did not
 give any disclosure statement or that he was made to sign
 on the statement forcefully and involuntarily. 33.PW10 HC Ajay deposed that on 08.08.2018 on the
 instruction of IO Inspector Baljeet Singh, he had collected
 one sealed pulanda sealed with the seal of "KS" from the
 MHC (M), vide RC No. 257/21/18 - Ex.PW10/A and

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 21 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:31
 +0530
 deposited the same in FSL, Rohini. After depositing the
 same, he handed over the copy of acceptance of
 acknowledgement to the MHC(M)-Ex.PW10/B. 34. PW-11 SI Balwant Singh deposed that on 04.07.2018, he
 was posted as Incharge Mobile Crime Team, Dwarka
 District, PS Dwarka Sector-9. On that day, on the receipt
 of information from Control Room, he alongwith
 Photographer Constable Amit and Fingerprint Expert ASI
 Nitin went to the place of incident i.e. R-3, B-8, Mohan
 Garden, Uttam Nagar. IO SI Kulbir along with other police
 staff were found present at the spot. As per PW11, spot
 was inspected by them at the instance of IO and
 photographs of the place of incident from different angles
 were also taken by the photographer by using his official
 digital camera. PW11 lifted exhibits from the spot as
 mentioned in his report and handed over the same to IO.
 PW11 proved scene of crime report as Ex.PW13/A.
 (SHOULD BE Ex.PW11/A) 35. PW12 Inspector Baljeet Singh deposed that on 04.07.2018,

 he was posted as Inspector at PS Uttam Nagar. On that day,
 DD No. 81A was received regarding suicide by the sister
 of caller. Thereafter, he alongwith SI Kulbeer and other
 police staff reached the spot i.e. R-3-B-8, Mohan Garden,
 where one lady namely Neelam Sharma was found
 hanging with chunni on the ceiling fan of the room at first
 floor of the house. Mobile phone, patra, chair, pen drive
 and other articles were found lying near the deceased. The
 place of offence was checked and inspected. Caller Brijesh
 Sharma (brother of deceased Neelam Sharma) was found

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 22 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:28
 +0530
 at the spot. Inquiry was made from him and he stated that
 his sister was got married around 3-4 months ago.
 Intimation was given to SDM concerned. Crime Team
 inspected the spot and clicked photographs of the spot
 from different angles. Crime Team, Incharge prepared a
 report-Ex.PW11/A and handed over the same to him.
 Physical evidence of the spot was seized by SI Kulbeer
 vide seizure memo already Ex.PW6/A and Ex.PW6/B.
 Mobile phone Oppo A71, pen drive HP red and black
 colour and red colour chunni were seized vide seizure
 memo already Ex.PW6/B. One hook of a chitkani
 alongwith two screws were seized vide seizure memo.
 Father and brother of deceased were inquired and they did
 not make any statement at that point of time. After
 examination, gold ornaments, which were found worn by
 deceased, were handed over to parents of deceased Neelam
 Sharma. Thereafter, dead body of deceased was got
 preserved in the mortuary of DDU Hospital. On
 05.07.2018, statements of Attish Kumar and Brijesh
 Kumar were got recorded by SDM concerned and FIR was
 got registered on the statement of Attish Kumar.
 Investigation of this case was entrusted to him. During the
 course of investigation, he arrested accused persons Pankaj
 and Bhagwan Devi vide arrest memos Ex.PW9/A and
 Ex.PX-6 respectively. PW12 proved the site plan of the
 spot as Ex.PW12/A. During the course of investigation,
 PW12 got conducted postmortem on the dead body of
 deceased and doctor concerned handed over him viscera
 and blood sample of the deceased. After the postmortem,

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 23 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:29
 +0530
 dead body of deceased was handed over to relatives for
 cremation. The exhibits were sent to FSL for expert's
 opinion. Later on, PW12 collected postmortem report &
 FSL reports and filed the same in the Court. Relevant
 witnesses were examined and their statement were
 recorded u/s 161 CrPC. During investigation, Brijesh
 Sharma produced some documents which were seized vide
 memo -Ex.PW2/C. PW12 further deposed that on
 completion of investigation, he prepared the charge-sheet
 and filed the same in the Court for trial. Supplementary
 charge-sheet regarding mobile phone was also filed by him
 alongwith FSL report and certificate u/s 65B of the Indian
 Evidence Act issued by Subodh Saini, Sr. Scientific
 Assistant. PW12 proved the FSL report as Ex. PW12/B;
 Certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act issued by
 Subodh Saini, Sr. Scientific Assistant as Ex.PW12/C. After
 receiving the FSL report Ex.PW12/B alongwith enclosures
 i.e. (1) one mobile phone (MP-1), one sim car (SC-1) and
 one pen drive (PD-1), (2) one supplied pen drive vide
 annexure (SPD-1), (3) certificate u/s 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act, PW12 examined the supplied pen drive
 annexure SPD-1, which was found containing retrieved
 data of mobile phone. Same was checked and analyzed by
 him. As per PW12, during scrutiny of mobile data, one
 small video clip was found in video folder which was
 minutely seen and heard by him. The video clip was made
 by deceased Neelam prior to her committal of suicide. It is
 seen in the said video that Neelam was weeping. She was
 seeing griping a red chunni in her hand tied with ceiling

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 24 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:24
 +0530
 fan. She was sitting on a bed and stating " mammi, main ja
 rahi hun, mammi ese time nahi katega, mammi main ja
 rahi hun". These words were the last words of deceased
 which prove that she was being harassed and tortured
 mentally by her husband and her mother-in-law (accused
 persons) at her in-laws house due to which she committed
 suicide. 36.During recording of evidence, from the pen drive, a video
 file named/numbered "VID20180704131123.mp4" dated
 04.07.2018 was played in the Court and the Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court observed in the video a lady
 weeping while sitting on a bed and she was holding a red
 colour chunni in her hand, which was tied with ceiling fan.
 That lady was seen saying "mammi, main ja rahi hun,
 mammi ese time nahi katega, mammi main ja rahi hun " 34. Acts done by several person in furtherance of
 common intention:When a criminal act is done by
 several persons, in furtherance of the common

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 30 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:31
 +0530
 intention of all, each of such persons is liable for that
 act in the same manner as if it were done by him
 alone. 304B Dowry Death: Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section,
 "dowry" shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 (28 of 1961).
 (2) Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished
 with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
 than seven years but which may extend to
 imprisonment for life. 113B Presumption as to dowry death. When the question is whether a person has committed
 the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon
 before her death such woman had been subjected by
 such person to cruelty or harassment for, or in
 connection with, any demand for dowry, the court
 shall presume that such person had caused the dowry
 death. Explanation-For the purposes of this section, dowry
 death shall have the same meaning as in section 304B of the Indian Penal Code. 50.Furthermore the term "dowry" has been defined in Section
 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 as under: SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 31 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:26
 +0530
 Explanation I.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that any presents made at the time of a
 marriage to either party to the marriage in the form of
 cash, ornaments, clothes or other articles, shall not be
 deemed to be dowry within the meaning of this section,
 unless they are made as consideration for the marriage
 of the said parties. Explanation II.--The expression ―valuable security‖
 has the same meaning as in Section 30 of the Indian
 Penal Code." 51.I have thoughtfully considered the arguments advanced,
 perused the material available on record, scrutinized the
 evidence led by the prosecution and gone through the
 relevant provisions of law. I have also considered the
 judgments relied upon by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state as
 well as Ld. Counsel for accused persons. 52.In the present case, the prosecution has to prove that both
 the accused persons in furtherance of their common
 intention subjected deceased Neelam with cruelty under Section 498 A IPC and caused her death for the purpose of
 dowry u/s 304 B IPC. Thus, the prosecution has to prove
 the ingredients of Section 498 A, 304 B and 34 IPC against
 the accused persons. Section 304 B IPC has the following
 ingredients:- 53.To bring its case within the purview of Section 304B IPC,
 a valid marriage between deceased Neelam and accused
 Pankaj Pathak has to be proved by the prosecution. In the
 present case, the marriage between deceased Neelam and
 accused Pankaj Pathak has not been disputed on behalf of
 accused persons during the trial. As per the testimonies of
 the witnesses, the marriage between accused Pankaj
 Pathak and deceased Neelam took place on 12.03.2018 and
 the death of deceased Neelam took place on 04.07.2018
 and hence the death of deceased Neelam took place within
 07 years of her marriage with the accused Pankaj Pathak. 54.To prove its case under Section 304 B IPC, the prosecution
 has also to prove that the death of deceased Neelam was
 caused by burns or bodily injury or otherwise other than
 the normal circumstances. Such death may be suicidal as
 well as homicidal. The death in normal circumstances will
 not be covered under 304 B IPC . 55. The deceased was found hanging at her matrimonial house

 and after collection of evidence, the dead body of deceased
 Neelam was sent to mortuary by the police. Dr. V.K. Ranga
 conducted the post mortem on the body of deceased and
 the report was admitted by the accused persons u/s 294 Cr.P.C. As per his expert opinion, death was due to
 asphyxia secondary to constriction of neck structures as a
 result of hanging. As per the post mortem report Ex. P-3,
 the only external injury on the body of deceased was

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 33 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:30
 +0530
 ligature mark and no other external injuries were present
 on the body of deceased Neelam. As per the internal
 examination, there was no fracture on the pelvic bones,
 collar bone, sternum and ribs of deceased Neelam. The
 death of deceased Neelam was not caused due to any burn
 or bodily injury and the death had also taken place in
 circumstances other than the normal circumstances. Thus,
 it is a clear cut case of suicide by hanging and this Court
 has to determine whether the deceased Neelam committed
 suicide due to the cruelty caused upon her soon before her
 death by the accused persons for the purpose of demand of
 dowry. 56.To establish its case u/s 304 B IPC, one of main
 ingredients of the offence which is required to be
 established is that soon before her death, the deceased
 woman was subjected to cruelty and harassment in
 connection with demand of dowry. 57.Soon before death does not mean at any time before or
 immediately before death. The expression soon before
 death cannot be given a narrower meaning. 58. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in judgment titled as 'Kaliyaperumal & Anr. Vs. State of Tamil Nadu cited as
 (2004) 9 SCC 157' while dealing with the expression soon
 before death observed as under:- 59. Similarly, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in judgment

 titled as 'Ashok Kumar Vs. State of Haryana cited as
 (2010) 12 SCC 350' observed as under:- 60. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in "Rajender Singh v. State of Punjab (AIR 2015 SC 1359)" has explained the
 scope of 'dowry' and held as under: We, therefore, declare that any money or property or
 valuable security demanded by any of the persons
 mentioned in Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, at
 or before or at any time after the marriage which is
 reasonably connected to the death of a married woman,
 would necessarily be in connection with or in relation to
 the marriage unless, the facts of a given case clearly and
 unequivocally point otherwise." 61. What would constitute a period soon before the incident

 would depend upon the facts of each case. While there is
 no one single definition of the expression 'soon before' and
 neither can there be a straight jacket formula nor a test
 with regard to this expression, Courts have interpreted this
 expression keeping in view the peculiar facts of each case.
 Thus the first question which arises for consideration is
 whether accused, Pankaj Pathak (husband of the deceased)
 demanded dowry and as to whether he had subjected the
 deceased to harassment in connection with this demand.
 The second question which arises is whether " soon before
 the death", the deceased had been subjected to harassment
 in connection with this demand of dowry. 62.To answer the above questions the testimonies of PW1 and
 PW2 are most important as PW1 is the father of deceased
 Neelam and PW2 is the brother of deceased Neelam. Let
 us examine the testimonies of the abovesaid witnesses.
 PW1 and PW2 in their testimonies has alleged the
 following instances of cruelty and dowry demands: 7.5 Lakhs , cheque of Rs. 2.5 Lakhs in the name of
 deceased alongwith furniture, gold jewellery, AC, utensils,
 clothes, LED were given. It has come in the cross-
 examination of PW2 that the FDR for Rs. 7.5 Lakhs was
 never encashed and after death of Neelam the same was
 credited in the account of PW2, being Nominee. The
 cheque for Rs. 2.5 Lakhs was also not credited as the same
 was dishonoured. The question is whether these gifts/cash
 will constitute dowry for the purposes of section 304B IPC. To the mind of this court the answer is in negative as
 dowry has to be understood in the sense of quid pro quo
 arrangement for marriage, meaning thereby that without
 fulfilment of the demand, marriage will not survive.
 Giving of traditional presents to the bride or the
 bridegroom by relatives and friends is not dowry, as held
 in Rajender Singh (supra). There is nothing on record to
 show that the FDR/cheque/gifts were demanded by the
 accused persons at the time of marriage. In fact, had there
 been a dowry demand as contemplated u/s 2 of the Dowry
 Prohibition Act, 1961, the FDR and cheque would have
 been in the name of the accused persons as opposed to be
 in the name of deceased Neelam. Moreover, PW4 Sh. Ram
 Gopal, who was a mediator in the marriage has
 categorically stated that marriage was happily conducted
 although there was a condition by accused Bhagwan Devi
 that she will not accept the proposal of marriage for

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 38 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:25
 +0530
 accused Pankaj Pathak for an amount less than Rs. 20-22
 lakhs. It is stated by him that this condition was accepted
 by PW1 and marriage was solemnised happily. It is also
 stated by PW4 that although there were certain problems in
 the marriage of the accused Pankaj Pathak and deceased
 Neelam for which complaints were made to PW4 but no
 such complaint was on account of dowry demands. It is
 also stated that the complaints were primarily regarding
 non-management of household work by deceased Neelam,
 cooking burnt okra potato vegetable etc.. However, during
 cross-examination PW4 has stated that whatever he has
 deposed with respect to condition about marriage was at
 the instance of PW2 Brijesh and the accused persons never
 complained to PW4 in respect of marriage function or the
 amount spent on marriage function. It was also stated that
 accused persons never asked for dowry after marriage of
 accused Pankaj Pathak and deceased Neelam. Thus, PW4
 has not supported the case of the prosecution w.r.t the
 alleged dowry demands either at the time of marriage or
 subsequently. (b) PW1 in his testimony has also deposed that PW1 had
 given sum of Rs. 1 lakh to deceased Neelam on two
 occasions. Firstly, on the birth of grandson of PW1 and
 secondly, for honeymoon of accused Pankaj Pathak and
 deceased Neelam. During cross examination PW1 has
 stated that the said amount was given voluntarily without
 any pressure from the accused persons. It is also stated by
 him that since accused Pankaj Pathak and deceased
 Neelam were going on pleasure trips they must be

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 39 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:27
 +0530
 enjoying a good relationship. In fact, if the story of the
 prosecution was correct, why would PW1 send his
 daughter Neelam to stay with accused Pankaj Pathak
 despite repeated dowry demands and acts of cruelty. PW1
 in his cross examination has stated that he cannot tell any
 specific date as to when deceased Neelam was beaten by
 accused persons. He neither got deceased Neelam
 medically examined nor has lodged any complaint with
 respect to dowry demands. Thus, the allegations of the
 prosecution remains uncorroborated and not proved as
 PW1 himself stated that the accused Pankaj Pathak and
 deceased Neelam may have shared good relations. In fact,
 PW2 in his testimony has also stated that deceased Neelam
 went back to his matrimonial house despite his reluctance.
 It is stated that "Despite that span of time, Neelam
 informed me that Pankaj is calling her. Thereafter, I
 refused to go Neelam to her matrimonial house.
 Thereafter, Neelam telephoned Pankaj and requested him
 to accompany to her himself." (c) PW1 in his examination-in-chief has stated that
 accused Pankaj Pathak had demanded a car for Rs. 20
 Lakhs one day prior to the incident. However, PW2 in his
 examination in chief has stated that accused Pankaj Pathak
 had asked for car after one month of marriage between
 deceased Neelam and accused Pankaj Pathak. Thus, the
 timing of this alleged demand of car is not corroborated
 and no reliance can be placed on the same. It is also
 important to understand that not every demand is a dowry
 demand. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 40 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:26
 +0530
 " Appasaheb & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra (2007) 9 SCC
 721" has held that demand for money on account of some
 financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic
 expense or for purchasing manure cannot be termed as
 demand for dowry. It was held as under: as defined in Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act was
 made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for
 was some money for meeting domestic expenses and
 for purchasing manure". Thus, in absence of corroboration it remains doubtful if at all
 such a demand was made by accused Pankaj Pathak and if such
 a demand was made whether it was a dowry demand or a
 demand for meeting domestic expense also remains unclear.
 PW2 in his testimony has stated that there is no SMS,
 Whatsapp message, email, complaint or any other record to
 show that accused Pankaj Pathak ever demanded any vehicle

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 41 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:24
 +0530
 from Neelam, PW1 or from himself. (d) PW-2 in his examination in chief has stated that he has paid
 a sum of Rs. 50,000/- to accused Pankaj Pathak in cash towards
 hospital expenses for stay of deceased Neelam at hospital,
 however, the same remains uncorroborated as PW2 could not
 produce any documents to this effect. In fact, PW2 in his cross
 examination has stated that "There is no record what so ever to
 show that accused Pankaj ever asked me for any expenses he
 made at the hospital for treatment of Neelam. Pankaj had paid
 the hospital bill. I do not know what was the bill amount of the
 hospital. There is not record in written or otherwise what so
 ever that any dowry demand was ever made by the accused
 persons from Neelam, my parents or myself. Accused Pankaj
 participated in all family functions which were celebrated after
 marriage of accused Pankaj and Neelam. Pankaj was informed
 that one ovary of Neelam had been removed in an operation."
 The testimony of PW2 and PW1 are flickering and shaky and
 does not inspire confidence. The allegations levelled by them
 in their examination-in-chief stands demolished by them during
 their cross-examination. A comprehensive reading of their
 testimonies would show that the allegations of dowry demand
 and cruelty remains unproved. Icing on the cake is that PW12
 Inspector Baljeet Singh stated that "It did not come into his
 knowledge that any financial transaction has ever happened
 between the accused persons and family members of
 deceased." Meaning thereby, there is nothing on record to show
 either dowry demands or cruelty pertaining to dowry demands.
 Also, the ornaments on the dead body of deceased Neelam was
 handed over to PW2 Sh. Brijesh (brother) by PW12 Inspector

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 42 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:25
 +0530
 Baljeet Singh, which reflects upon the subsequent conduct of
 accused persons. It throws light upon the fact that the accused
 persons were not greedy for money, else the dead body of
 deceased was found to be hanging at the matrimonial house
 and the accused persons did had an opportunity to remove the
 ornaments from the body of deceased Neelam. (e) Lastly, PW1 and PW2 in their examination in chief has
 stated that just before day of incident the accused Pankaj
 Pathak had demanded a sum of Rs. 20 Lacs for purchase of
 some property by his behnoi (brother-in-law). The said demand
 was communicated to PW1 by deceased Neelam. PW1 in his
 cross examination has stated that he never asked/confronted
 accused Pankaj Pathak about any such demand. Be that as it
 may be, this demand is corroborated by PW2 in his
 examination in chief. PW1 and PW2 both have stated that a
 demand of Rs. 20 lakhs was made by accused Pankaj Pathak
 through deceased Neelam. But, pertinent question is whether
 dowry demand is sufficient for conviction u/s 304B IPC? The
 answer to the question is in negative as dowry demand has to
 be accompanied with cruelty. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
 in Rani v. State of NCT of Delhi, Criminal Appeal No. 93/2004
 has held as under: "8. It is apparent that the allegations were very vague in
 nature. Who demanded ` 50,000/- and scooter, whether it
 was the demand of husband or of mother-in-law or of
 father-in-law, when was it made - answers to all these
 questions are absent. Even if it is presumed that demand
 was made, the ingredients of Section 304B IPC were
 totally absent in this case as there was no evidence on
 record to show that cruelty of any kind was perpetuated
 on Janki for this demand. Section 304B IPC reads as under: "(1) Where the death

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 43 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:28
 +0530
 of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or
 occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances
 within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that
 soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or
 harassment by her husband or any relative of her
 husband for, or in connection with, any demand for
 dowry, such death shall be called "dowry death" and
 such husband or relative shall be deemed to have
 caused her death. (2) Whoever commits dowry death
 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
 shall not be less than seven years but which may extend
 to imprisonment for life." To bring home an offence under Section 304-B IPC
 it is an obligation of the prosecution to prove in those
 cases where death of a woman occurs within 7 years of
 her marriage, that soon before her death, she was
 subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or
 any other relative, in connection with a demand of
 dowry. Mere making of demand is not the only pre-
 requisite for proving an offence under Section 304B IPC. The prosecution was thus supposed to prove that
 the demand made by the accused was coupled with a
 harassment or cruelty in connection with the demand.
 Unnatural death can be called a dowry death only if,
 after making a demand of dowry, the accused
 perpetuates cruelty on the victim so that the demand
 made by him is got fulfilled by perpetuation of cruelty
 on the victim. If the alleged demand of dowry is not
 coupled with cruelty, harassment or any other such act
 on the part of accused, Section 304B of IPC would not
 be made out. In this case, none of the three brothers
 stated that cruelty was perpetuated on Janki or she was
 harassed by the appellant or by any other relative for
 not fulfilling the demand. I consider in these
 circumstances conviction of the appellant under Section 304B IPC was totally illegal and unjust. The
 conviction seems to be the result of a callous criminal
 justice system where neither the defence counsel
 prepared the case nor the prosecutor discharged his
 duty in an impartial manner nor the Judge considered it
 as his duty to see what offence was made out and
 everyone acted in a mechanical manner." 63.The prosecution has not proved that the deceased was
 subjected to cruelty for this dowry demand. In fact, it is
 clear from the testimony of PW1 and PW2 that deceased
 Neelam had denied to meet out the demand of accused

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 44 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:29
 +0530
 Pankaj Pathak, which goes on to show that she was not
 meted out with cruelty for fulfillment of this demand.
 Deceased Neelam chose to end her life on the next day but
 that does not mean that it was a result of dowry demand.
 To gather the same, reliance is placed upon the testimony
 of PW12 Inspector Baljeet Singh, who in his examination-
 in-chief on 21.12.2023 has stated that during scrutiny of
 mobile data, a small video clip (Ex.PW12/P1) of deceased
 Neelam was analysed wherein it was seen that she was
 weeping while gripping a red chunni tied to the ceiling fan
 and was sitting on bed stating " mammi, main ja rahi hun,
 mammie se time nahi katega, mammi main ja rahi
 hun."PW12 in his examination in chief has relied upon the
 video clip to implicate accused persons. However, PW12
 did not interrogate mother of the deceased Neelam on this
 aspect. No attempt was made by PW12 to discover truth
 from mother of deceased Neelam. Mother of deceased
 Neelam was a material witness who could have thrown
 light upon the circumstances under which Neelam had
 committed suicide, the non-examination of mother of
 deceased Neelam had proved fatal to the case of the
 prosecution. Also, deceased Neelam did not
 implicate/blame the accused persons herein for her act of
 suicide. There can be numerous propositions for deceased
 Neelam to take her life, one could be cruelty/dowry death,
 others could be that she might used to think she was
 medically unfit for conception (as proved by DW1/PW2)
 or that she could not give exam/further studies (as proved
 by DW2). Thus, unless prosecution conclusively/ beyond

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 45 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:31
 +0530
 reasonable doubt establishes that dowry related cruelty was
 the only reason for commission of suicide by deceased
 Neelam, the prosecution cannot get the benefit of
 presumption under Section 113B of the Indian Evidence
 Act, 1872. During course of arguments Ld. Counsel for
 the accused persons has also relied upon an audio clipping
 (Ex PW12/P-1) recovered from the mobile phone. This
 audio clipping is not relied by the defence during defence
 evidence and has not been put to prosecution witnesses,
 but this court in interest of justice and to do justice, had
 heard the contemporaneous conversation between the
 accused Pankaj Pathak and deceased Neelam wherein
 deceased Neelam has said to accused Pankaj Pathak "mera
 man nahi lag raha hai mujhe apke saath rehna hai ". It
 would be relevant herein to note that in the case of Gurucharan Kumar Vs. State of Rajasthan (2003) 2 SCC
 698, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India laid considerable
 emphasis on the letters written by the deceased to her
 family and friends and observed that, although a perusal of
 the oral evidence on record created an impression that the
 appellants as well as the husband of the deceased were
 constantly taunting deceased for the failure of her father to
 provide them with a car despite his prosperity and status,
 and ultimately this led her to commit suicide. However, the
 documentary evidence on record of contemporaneous
 nature, some of them written by deceased herself, gave
 quite a different picture. The Apex Court further observed
 that the letters did indicate that the deceased was unhappy
 and depressed for some reason, but they also revealed that

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 46 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:30
 +0530
 so far as the appellants were concerned, they treated her
 with love and affection and there was no complaint in any
 of the letters against their conduct. There was not even a
 whisper in any of the letters written by the deceased or
 anyone else about a demand for a car. The Court observed
 that, these letters were significant and substantially
 contemporaneous because they were written at a time
 when, according to the prosecution, deceased was being
 subjected to harassment and cruelty and was repeatedly
 taunted by her husband as well as her father and mother-in-
 law for the failure of her father to give a car in dowry.
 These letters, therefore, threw considerable light on the
 circumstances that prevailed during the period of her stay
 in her matrimonial home; resulting ultimately in her death.
 After analyzing several letters, the Apex Court came to the
 conclusion that the letters did not support the case of the
 prosecution that deceased was subjected to torture and
 harassment or was being constantly taunted for not
 bringing a car in dowry. Thus, the words uttered by
 deceased Neelam assumes importance, as she wanted to
 live with accused Pankaj Pathak. This throws at least some
 light upon the fact that deceased Neelam was not subjected
 to dowry related cruelty as she was willing to reside with
 accused Pankaj Pathak, may be she was depressed on some
 other account, which propelled her commit suicide. 64.The rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved
 guilty. However, in case of dowry death u/s 304 B IPC the
 presumption u/s 113 B of Indian Evidence Act is
 applicable. In case of dowry death when the ingredients of

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 47 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:27
 +0530 Section 304B IPC are satisfied, the husband or all relatives
 shall be deemed to have caused the death. However, the
 presumption u/s 113 B Evidence shall be raised only on the
 proof of following essentials:- As and when the aforesaid circumstances are
 established, a presumption of dowry death shall be
 drawn against the accused u/s 113 B of Evidence Act.
 It has to be kept in mind that presumption u/s 113 B of Evidence Act is presumption of law. 65. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in judgment titled as Kans Raj Vs. State of Punjab & Ors. cited as (2000) 5 SCC
 207 has observed as under:- 66. In the present case, no specific date of alleged cruelty or

 harassment has been brought on record by the prosecution.
 Applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 of India in Kans Raj (Supra), the presumption under

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 48 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:27
 +0530 Section 113 B of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 is not
 applicable in the present case. 67. During investigation conducted by PW-12 Inspector

 Baljeet Singh, it has not come on record that any complaint
 regarding the harassment or demand of dowry was ever
 made to the police authorities, to the administration. This
 has weakened the prosecution case. None of the
 prosecution witnesses have deposed that they had seen the
 cruelty being caused upon deceased Neelam by the
 accused persons. As per post mortem report, no injury
 marks was found on the body of deceased Neelam at the
 time of her death. In these circumstances, the prosecution
 has failed to prove that the cruelty was being caused to
 deceased Neelam by accused persons for demand of
 dowry. 68. Even for the offence of Section 498A, specific instances of

 cruelty has to be proved. In the instant case PW1 has
 alleged that accused Bhagwan Devi used to give beatings
 to deceased Neelam, treated her badly, called her 'randi',
 did not serve her food for three days, did not stay with her
 at the hospital during night, deceased Neelam was taunted
 for not waking up early but all these allegations have not
 found corroboration either in the testimony of PW2 or in
 the testimony of PW4. They are mere allegations and
 conviction cannot sustain of allegations. PW1 in his cross
 examination has himself stated that he never witnessed any
 act of cruelty except on one incident when deceased
 Neelam was sitting on floor whereas accused persons were
 sitting on sofa. This act in isolation cannot tantamount to

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 49 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:23
 +0530
 cruelty as contemplated u/s 498A IPC. Moreover, PW1 in
 his cross examination has stated that accused Pankaj
 Pathak had stayed in hospital with deceased Neelam, when
 she was admitted in Tara Hospital on account of high
 fever. PW12 Inspector Baljeet Singh had stated that "I did
 investigation on the point of any quarrel between accused
 and deceased but I could not find any evidence against the
 accused persons.", meaning thereby that there is nothing
 on record that proves the act of cruelty by the accused
 persons. Thus, prosecution has failed to prove the
 ingredients of offences punishable under Sections 498A / 34 IPC & 304B/34 IPC . 69.To prove the prosecution case, the testimony of the
 prosecution witnesses must be reliable. It is not the
 quantity but the quality of the testimony of the witness that
 helps a court in arriving at a conclusion in any case. The
 test in this regard is that the evidence adduced by the
 parties must have a ring of truth. In a criminal trial, the
 prosecution has to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt
 and it is possible only when the testimony of prosecution
 witnesses is cogent, trustworthy and credible. To secure a
 conviction of accused, the testimony of the prosecution
 witness must be of sterling quality. 70. In case titled as Rai Sandeep @ Deepu Vs. State (NCT of

 Delhi ), (2012) 8 SCC 21, it is held that : 71. Similarly, in case of Ramdas Vs. State of Maharashtra ,

 (2007) SCC 170, it is held that
 "23. It is no doubt true that the conviction in a case
 of rape can be based solely on the testimony of the
 prosecutrix, but that can be done in a case where the
 court is convinced about the truthfulness of the
 prosecutrix and there exist no circumstances with
 cast of shadow of doubt over her veracity. It the

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 51 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:24
 +0530
 evidence of the prosecutrix is of such quality that
 may be sufficient to sustain an order of conviction
 solely on the basis of her testimony. In the instant
 case we do not fine her evidence to be of such
 quality." 72.Thus, from the above said judgments, it is clear that the
 version of the witness should be natural one and it must
 corroborate the prosecution case. Such version must match
 with the testimony of other prosecution witnesses. It
 should be of such a quality that there should not be any
 shadow of doubt upon it. 73. The contradictions and inconsistencies appearing in the
 testimonies of PW1, PW2 and PW4 and the absence of
 specific dates and time of the alleged acts of cruelty have
 created serious doubts about the prosecution story. 74.It is established principle of law that if two views are
 possible, the view favourable to the accused must be
 accepted. The benefit of doubt must always go to the
 accused as the prosecution has to prove the case beyond
 reasonable doubt. 75. The Hon'ble Apex court in Rang Bahadur Singh Vs. State

 of U.P. reported in AIR 2000 SC 1209 has held as follows: 76. In yet another decision in State of U.P. Vs. Ram Veer

 Singh and Another reported in 2007(6) Supreme 164 the
 Hon'ble Apex Court has held as follows: 77.In the present case, due to the contradictions and
 inconsistencies in the testimonies, non-examination of
 material witness i.e, the mother of deceased Neelam,
 absence of specific instances of cruelty serious doubts
 have been created on the prosecution story and two views
 are possible in this case and hence the benefit of the same
 must go to the accused persons. 78. In the light of aforesaid discussion, this court is of the

 considered opinion that the testimonies of PW1 Sh. Attish
 Sharma and PW2 Sh. Brijesh are not clear, cogent, credible
 and trustworthy and same are not corroborated by other
 material evidence. 79. For the reasons stated above, this court is of the considered

 opinion that the prosecution has failed to prove the
 ingredients of offences punishable under Section 498A / 34 IPC & 304B/34 IPC against accused persons namely
 accused Pankaj Pathk and Bhagwan Devi beyond
 reasonable doubt. 80. Accordingly in view of the aforesaid discussion, accused

 persons namely Pankaj Pathak and Bhagwan Devi are

SC No.861/18 State vs. Pankaj Pathak & Anr. Page No. 53 of 54

 SHIVALI Digitally signed by SHIVALI
 BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2025.08.22 13:07:28
 +0530
 hereby acquitted for offences punishable under Section
 498A / 34 IPC & 304B/34 IPC . 81.Bail bonds of the accused persons except bail bonds filed
 under section 437A CrPC stand cancelled. Their sureties
 stands discharged. Case property, if any, be released to the
 rightful owners. 82. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Announced in the open
Court on 22.08.2025.