Hon'ble Arun Kumar Singh Deshwal,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Arun Kumar Singh Deshwal, J.) 1. As a common question is involved in all the above five writ petitions, all the writ petitions are being disposed of by a common judgement. 2. Basic issue in all the above writ petitions is preparation of gang chart in accordance with the U.P. Gangsters and Anti Social Activities (Prevention) Rules, 2021 (hereinafter referred to as "Rules, 2021"). In all the above writ petitions first information reports, under the U.P. Gangsters and Anti Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as "Gangsters Act"), have been challenged on the ground that while preparing the gang charts of the FIRs in question, the competent authorities have not applied their minds and prepared gang charts in violation of the Rules, 2021 as well as several directions issued by this Court in the cases of Sanni Mishra @ Sanjayan Kumar Mishra vs. State of U.P. and others ; 2024 (1) ADJ 231 (DB) as well as other judgements. 3. The following contentions have been made by the learned counsel for the petitioner in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition no. 9930 of 2024:- 4. The following contentions have been made by the learned counsel for the petitioners in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition Nos. 10379 of 2024 and 10852 of 2024:- 5. The following contentions have been made by the learned counsel for the petitioner in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 10916 of 2024:- 6. The following contentions have been made by the learned counsel for the petitioner in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition no. 10968 of 2024:- 7. Sri Amit Sinha, learned A.G.A. on behalf of the State-respondents has submitted that there is no requirement to conduct joint meeting before approval of the gang chart. Learned A.G.A. submitted that though there is a technical fault in approving the gang chart on the part of the competent authorities, that cannot be a ground to quash the impugned F.I.R. under the Gangsters Act. It is also submitted that in pursuance of the judgement of the Division Bench of this Court, Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P. has also issued circular dated 21.4.2024 to all the District Magistrates as well as Superintendents of Police for strictly following the Rules, 2021 in the light of the guidelines issued by this Court while preparing the gang chart under the Gangsters Act. It is further submitted that the Director General of Police had also issued circular dated 19.4.2024 to all the Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police/Commissioners of Police to strictly follow the guidelines, issued by this Hon'ble Court in the case of Sanni Mishra (supra) as well as in other judgements of this Hon'ble Court so as to prepare the gang chart in accordance with the Rules, 2021. However, some of the District Magistrates and District Police Chiefs, mistakenly, could not take into consideration those guidelines and because of that reason mistakes were committed while preparing and approving the gang charts under the Gangsters Act. 8. Before proceeding on the factual aspect as well as legal question, involved herein, it would be appropriate to discuss the basic object of the Gangsters Act. The Gangsters Act was enacted to deal with those criminals who commit crime by forming a gang or who assist or abet illegal activities of a gang which are mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act. The Gangsters Act can be invoked only against the persons who are termed as gangsters as per Section 2(c) of the Gangsters Act. Therefore, the Gangsters Act can be imposed only on those persons who are members of any gang and commit offence mentioned in Section 2(b)(i) to 2(b)(xxv) of the Gangsters Act or who assist such persons in any manner. Definition of the word 'gang' has been given in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act, providing group of persons either acting singly or collectively with the object of disturbing public order or gaining any undue temporal, pecuniary or material advantage for himself of any other person through violence, or threat, or intimidation, or coercion, or other similar activities by indulging in illegal activities mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act. Section 2(b) , defining the word 'gang' is quoted as under:- 9. From the perusal of the definition of the word 'gang', it appears that if two or more persons group together for committing illegal activities, as mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act itself, then that group will be considered as a gang. But in the Gangsters Act, it was nowhere mentioned whether the activity of the member of a group should be one or more than one to attract the liability under the Gangsters Act as mentioned in the Maharastra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999 and the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act, 2015. As per the Maharastra Control of Organized Crime Act as well as the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act, to attract the liability there must be a continuing unlawful activity which requires more than one charge sheet. However, in the U.P. Gangsters Act, it is nowhere mentioned that to attract the liability under the Gangsters Act there must be continuing unlawful activity which requires more than one charge sheet for the offences. For ready reference, Sections 2(1)(d), 2(1)(e) of the Maharastra Control of Organized Crime Act as well as Sections 2(1)(c) and 2(1)(e) of the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act are quoted as under:- 10. This issue was also considered by the Apex Court in the case of Shraddha Gupta v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others ; 2022 SCC OnLine SC 514. While considering the issue whether the provision of the Gangsters Act can be invoked if the member of a gang is involved in a single case, Hon'be the Apex Court observed that on perusal of the definition of 'gang' and 'gangster' in the U.P. Gangsters Act, continuation of illegal activities is not required as required in the the Maharastra Control of Organized Crime Act as well as the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act. Therefore, even if the member of a gang is involved in a single base case, the provisions of the Gangsters Act can be imposed against him. Paragraph No. 39 of Shraddha Gupta (supra) case is quoted as under:- 11. The Apex Court in the case of Shraddha Gupta (supra) observed that on the basis of a single case, the Gangsters Act can be imposed against a person. This observation was widely misused by the police authorities for invoking the Gangsters Act only on the basis of a single case, ignoring the fact that the observation of the Apex Court in Shraddha Gupta (supra) is regarding commission of a single case by the member of a gang or by any person who assists or abets the gang in its illegal activities. Therefore, though the Gangsters Act can be imposed only on the basis of a single case against a criminal, the basic condition must be fulfilled that the criminal must be a member of a gang and involved in illegal activities as mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act, only then the Gangsters Act can be imposed only on the basis of a single case. However, this Court came across a number of cases where the Gangsters Act has been imposed only on the basis of a single case against an accused without there being sufficient material to show that the person is a member of a gang and involved in illegal activities, mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act. This is nothing but misuse of the Gangsters Act by some of the the State Officers. 12. The State Government, just to prevent the misuse of the Gangsters Act, has framed the Rules, 2021. While framing these rules, the State Government also took into consideration several guidelines issued by the High Court as well as the Apex Court regarding invocation of the Gangsters Act. The basic purpose of issuance of the Rules, 2021 is that no innocent person be falsely implicated in the Gangsters Act by providing check and balance on the police as well as administrative officers who are competent authorities to recommend and approve the gang chart before registration of the F.I.R. under the Gangsters Act. 13. The majority of criminal Acts and Rules, enacted and framed by the State, are substantially based on societal norms which can be traced back to the religious teachings, found in the religious texts. 14. This Court is of the view that the object of procedural Rules, framed under the Gangsters Act as well as in other criminal laws, must be tested on the old saying that "99 accused may be acquitted, but one innocent person should not be punished". 15. Rigveda, the ancient Indian Vedic texts contains several hymns and verses that prohibit harassment and oppression of innocent people. Several verses of Rigveda emphasize the importance of protecting the innocent and the weak and warn against oppressing or harassing them. The Rigveda teaches that Gods are on the side of the oppressed and will punish those who engage in harassment and oppression. The Mandal-1, Sukta-5th, Varg-10th (1.5.10) of the Rigveda (interpretation by Swami Dayanand Saraswati) is being quoted as under:- 16. The Bible, both old and new testaments, condemns harassment and oppression of an innocent person. The Bible teaches that protecting the innocent and promoting justice is a fundamental aspect of faith and harassment and oppression are considered sinful behaviour. The relevant extract of the Bible is quoted as under:- 17. Quran, the holy book of Islam, strictly condemns harassment and oppression of innocent people. The Quran teaches that protecting the innocent and promoting justice is a fundamental aspect of Islam and oppression and harassment are considered grave sins. The Surah Al-Ma'edah (Surah-5), Ayat 32 of the Quran is quoted as under:- (Min Ajli thalika katabna 'ala banee israeela annahu man qatala nafsan bighayri nafsin aw fasadin fee alardi fakaannama qatala alnnasa jamee'an waman ahyaha fakaannama ahya alnnasa jamee'an walaqad jaa thum rusuluna bialbayyinati thumma inna katheeran minhum ba'da thalika fee alardi lamusrifoona)
 
Because of that, We decreed upon the Children of Israel that whoever kills a soul unless for a soul or for corruption [done] in the land - it is as if he had slain mankind entirely. And whoever saves one - it is as if he had saved mankind entirely. And our messengers had certainly come to them with clear proofs. Then indeed many of them, [even] after that, throughout the land, were transgressors." 18. The above verses of different religious texts clearly show that harassment of innocent persons is a great sin and our legal system also prescribes several procedures to protect the innocent persons and punish the guilty. Before the enforcement of the Constitution of India, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Ji, while addressing the final constituent assembly, said "However good the constitution may be, if those who are implementing it are not good it will prove to be bad". Therefore, providing law and procedure for its implementation may not result as desired if the persons who are implementing the same have mala fide intension or do not respect the law and its procedure. 19. Similar is the situation in the State of U.P. Here, though the policy of State Government for zero tolerance towards crime is appreciable but if some of its officials do not follow proper procedure and guidelines, prescribed by the State Government itself, then in such circumstances the object of the Government to achieve good governance and zero tolerance towards crime was bound to be defeated. 20. This Court came across myriad cases where it was found that the competent authorities under the Gangsters Act were not following the procedure prescribed by the Rules, 2021 in preparation of gang chart which is the first stage of invoking the Gangsters Act upon criminal(s). Though all the State officers cannot be blamed, but certainly there is a considerable number of State officers who are invoking the Gangsters Act without following due procedure laid down by the Rules, 2021 itself. Considering the laxity on the part of some of the State officers in preparation of the gang chart against the well established procedure laid down by the State Government, several Benches of this Court had issued directions for preparation of the gang chart as well as for invocation of the Gangsters Act. 21. This Court in the case of Anil Mishra vs. State of U.P. and others ; 2024 (3) ADJ 285 (DB) observed that satisfaction of the competent authorities should be the satisfaction in true sense and not the formality and a dishonest satisfaction will be no satisfaction at all. Paragraph No.32 of the aforesaid judgement is quoted as under:- 22. In the case of Asim @ Hassim (supra), a Division Bench of this Court, just to prevent misuse of the Gangsters Act, observed that the Gangsters Act can be imposed on a person who is a member of a gang and who is also involved in the category of illegal activities mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act and, therefore, without mentioning the relevant provision which makes him gangster, the provision of the Gangsters Act cannot be invoked merely because that person has committed an offence. In that case the Division Bench of this Court directed that while registering an F.I.R. under the Gangsters Act, relevant provision of Section 2(b) regarding illegal activities in which the person is involved and on the basis whereof he was termed as gangster should also be mentioned in the F.I.R. Though this judgement was referred to the larger Bench by another Division Bench in the case of Dharmendra @ Bheema vs. State of U.P. and another ; Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 1049 of 2024, the reference is yet to be decided. Therefore, till the reference is decided, the law laid down in Asim @ Hassim (supra) is still hold good. Paragarphs No. 5 & 9 of the judgement in Asim @ Hassim (supra) are quoted as under:- 23. This Court again considered the Rules, 2021 on finding that the gang chart is not being prepared as per the rules and issued several directions in the case of Sanni Mishra (supra). Following guidelines were issued in paragraph No.22 of the aforesaid judgment:- 24. The above guidelines show that the Court has specifically directed the competent authorities that at the time of preparing gang chart, the date of filing of the charge sheet ought to be mentioned in column-6 of the gang chart and the competent authorities must record their required satisfaction by writing in clear words and not by signing a pre-typed satisfaction. It was also directed that before approving the gang chart, the District Magistrate/Commissioner of Police should conduct a joint meeting with the District Police Chief to discuss material available for invocation of the Gangsters Act. 25. In pursuance of the judgements in Asim @ Hassim (supra) as well as Sanni Mishra (supra), the Director General of Police, U.P., issued circular dated 19.1.2024 to all the District Police Chiefs. The circular dated 19.1.2024, issued by the Director General of Police, U.P. is quoted as under:- 26. Thereafter, the Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P. issued circular dated 21.1.2024 to the Director General of Police, to all the District Magistrates/Commissioners of Police as well as District Police Chiefs to strictly follow the guidelines, issued by the Division Bench of this Court in Asim @ Hassim (supra) as well as Sanni Mishra (supra) while preparing the gang chart. The circular dated 21.1.2024, issued by the Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P., is quoted as under:- संलग्नक : यथोक्त । भवनिष्ठ,
 
							Digitally Signed by दुर्गा 
 
							शंकर मिश्र 
 
							Date: 21-01-2024 12:24:53 
 
								मुख्य सचिव
 

 
संख्या एवं दिनांक तदैव
 

 
	प्रतिलिपित निम्नलिखित को सूचनार्य एवं आवश्यक कार्यवाही हेतु प्रेषितः
 

 
1-विशेष पुलिस महानिदेशक, कानून एवं व्यवस्था, उत्तर प्रदेश । 2-अपर पुलिस महानिदेशक, अपराध, उत्तर प्रदेश लखनऊ । 3-श्री आशुतोष कुमार सण्ड, शासकीय अधिवक्ता, मा० उच्च न्यायालय, इलाहाबाद को उनके पत्र संख्या-क्रिम0/19316/इलाहाबाद दिनांकित 18.12.2023 के क्रम में । 4-समस्त जोनल अपर पुलिस महानिदेशक, उत्तर प्रदेश । 5-समस्त परिक्षेत्रीय पुलिस महानिरीक्षक, उत्तर प्रदेश । 6-समस्त परिक्षेत्रीय अपर निदेशक अभियोजन, उत्तर प्रदेश । 7-समस्त जनपदीय संयुक्त निदेशक अभियोजन /वरिष्ठ अभियोजन अधिकारी, उत्तर प्रदेश । 8-गार्ड फाईल । आज्ञा से,
 
 						 (राजेश कुमार राय) 
 
						 विशेष सचिव ।" 27. From a perusal of the above mentioned circulars of the Director General of Police, U.P. as well as Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P., it is clear that there were specific directions to all the District Magistrates as well as District Police Chiefs to record their required satisfaction in the gang chart instead of signing a pre-typed satisfaction and it was also provided that there must be a joint meeting to conduct due discussion between the District Magistrate and the District Police Chief before approving the gang chart. It was also directed by those circulars that the competent authorities must peruse all the documents annexed with the gang chart before forwarding and approving the same. 28. However, despite issuance of circulars by the Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P. as well as the Director General of Police to all the District Magistrates as well as other police officers, this Court found that some of the officers were still not following the procedure while preparing the gang chart and defective gang charts were being prepared without application of mind on the part of the competent authorities. Therefore, the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Rajeev Kumar @ Raju vs. State of U.P. and others ; Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 9428 of 2024, specifically directed the Principal Secretary (Home), Govt. of U.P. to issue appropriate direction to all the District Police Chiefs as well the District Magistrates to maintain a register for recording the minutes/resolutions of the joint meet held as per Rule 5(3)(a) of the Rules, 2021 and further direction was issued to all the District Police Chiefs, District Magistrates as well as Nodal Officers that while signing the gang chart they should mention the date just below their signatures. The judgement passed in Rajeev Kumar @ Raju (supra) is quoted as under:- 29. This Court again found that several police officers/District Magistrates are still not following the guidelines issued by different judgements of this Court, though same were duly circulated by the State Government by circular dated 21.1.2024. Thereafter, this Court in the case of Mohd. Arif @ Guddu v. State of U.P. and others ; Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 10980 of 2024, observed that several Nodal Officers/District Police Chiefs were not following the directions issued by the State Government by the circular dated 21.1.2024 and directed the Chief Secretary as well as Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Govt. of U.P. to look into this matter and take appropriate action against the negligent State officers. Paragraph Nos. 11 & 12 of the aforesaid judgement are quoted as under:- 30. This Court again found in the present cases that the gang charts of the impugned FIRs have been prepared in utter violation of the Rules, 2021 as well as directions issued by this Court in Sanni Mishra (supra), Asim @ Hassim (supra), Rajeev Kumar @ Raju (supra), Anil Mishra (supra) and also in violation of circular dated 19.1.2024 issued by the Director General of Police as well as circular dated 21.1.2024 issued by the Chief Secretary, Govt. U.P. 31. Therefore, this Court feels it appropriate to direct the State Government to send the District Police Chiefs, District Magistrates/Police Commissioners as well as Nodal Officers, who are the competent authorities under the Gangsters Act, for training or crash course so that they could learn how to prepare a gang chart, strictly in accordance with the Rules, 2021 as well as several directions issued by this Court and also to apprise them about appropriate cases where the Gangsters Act can be invoked. This training on the one hand will reduce the scope of getting away of the gangsters from the clutches of the Gangsters Act and on the other it will save innocent persons who are merely involved in petty, one or two cases, though they would not come within the definition of the gangsters as per Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act, from getting booked under the Gangsters Act. Such training or crash course can be conducted in a phased manner in the Judicial Training and Research Institute, Lucknow (J.T.R.I.) which can be arranged by the Principal Secretary Law/LR, Govt. of U.P. or at any other place where the State govt. may feel it appropriate. 32. For ready reference, guidelines, issued by this Court in several judgements regarding preparation of gang chart as well as for invocation of Gangsters Act, are being summarised as under:- 33. On perusal of the gang chart of the impugned F.I.R. in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition no. 9930 of 2024 and also considering the submission of learned counsel for the parties, this Court finds that there is no proper satisfaction recorded by the competent authorities because they simply signed pre-typed satisfaction which is against the guidelines issued in Sanni Mishra (supra) as well as Circular dated 21.01.2024 of the State government. It is also clear that while recording the satisfaction for approval, the District Magistrate, Mahoba has not mentioned the date below his signature which is against the guidelines issued by the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Rajeev Kumar @ Raju (supra). 34. Apart from this, it also appears from the impugned FIR that only the section, provided for the penalty, has been mentioned without mentioning the corresponding provision of Section 2(b) of the Gangsters Act, regarding his anti social activities on the basis of which the petitioner was termed as gangster, which is against the direction issued by the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Asim @ Hassim (supra). Therefore, the impugned F.I.R. dated 2.5.2024, registered as Case Crime No. 236 of 2024, under Section 3(1) of the Gangsters Act, P.S. Kotwali Nagar Mahoba, District Mahoba along with its gang chart is hereby quashed. 35. On perusal of the gang chart of the impugned F.I.R. in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition Nos. 10379 of 2024 and 10852 of 2024 as well as after considering the submission of learned counsel for the parties, it appears that the Senior Superintendent of Police, Etawah did not record any satisfaction while forwarding the gang chart to the District Magistrate and thereafter the District Magistrate again did not record his proper satisfaction as required by the Rule 16(3) of the Rules, 2021 and there is also no material showing that any joint meeting was conducted between the District Magistrate as well as the District Police Chief, Etawah, who were approving the gang chart. Therefore, the impugned F.I.R. dated 31.5.2024, registered as Case Crime No. 116 of 2024, under Sections 2 & 3 of the Gangsters Act, P.S. Friends Colony, District Etawah along with its gang chart is hereby quashed. 36. On perusal of the gang chart of the impugned F.I.R. in the Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 10916 of 2024, it is clear that the Nodal Officer while signing his satisfaction did not mention any date below his signature which is against the decision of Rajeev Kumar @ Raju (supra). The gang chart in the present case also shows that while recording his satisfaction, the Superintendent of Police, Bijnor did not mention that he had perused forms / enclosures annexed with the gang chart and he simply relied upon the facts mentioned in the gang chart and recommended the gang chart to the District Magistrate but the District Magistrate, Bijnor also did not look into this aspect and approved the gang chart. Therefore, the impugned F.I.R. dated 2.6.2024, registered as Case Crime No. 274 of 2024, under Sections 2(b)(i) and 3(1) of the Gangsters Act, P.S. Chandpur, District Bijnor along with its gang chart is hereby quashed. 37. On perusal of the gang chart of the impugned F.I.R. in the Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 10968 of 2024, it is clear that the satisfaction was not recorded by the competent authorities in the gang chart but they simply signed pre-typed satisfaction which is against the Rules, 2021 as well as the directions issued by this Court in Sanni Mishra (supra). Therefore, the impugned F.I.R. dated 14.5.2024, registered as Case Crime No. 108 of 2024, under Sections 2/3 of the Gangsters Act, P.S. Alau, District Mainpuri along with its gang chart is hereby quashed. 38. It is relevant to mention here that in view of the judgement of the Apex Court in the case of State of Punjab vs. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar and others ; 2011 (14) SCC 770, all the consequential proceedings of the impugned FIRs in all the above five writ petitions are also quashed. 39. With the aforesaid observation, all the above five writ petitions are allowed. 40. However the competent authorities are at liberty to proceed against the petitioners afresh in accordance with the Rules, 2021 as well as the guidelines issued by this Court. 41. Registrar (Compliance) is directed to send a copy of this judgement to the Chief Secretary, Govt. of U.P. and the Principal Secretary (Home), Govt. of U.P. for compliance within 24 hours. 42. Registrar (Compliance) will also send a copy of this judgement to the Principal Secretary Law/L.R., U.P. for placing the same before the Chief Minister, Uttar Pradesh for his perusal. Order Date :- 26.07.2024
 
Vandana
 

 
(Arun Kumar Singh Deshwal,J.) (Siddhartha Varma,J.)