SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why is India protesting against CAA and NRC? A detailed exhaustive explainer (Legally ratified)
DATE: 2019-12-23
SCORE: 266
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/eekdl1/why_is_india_protesting_against_caa_and_nrc_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Why are we protesting against the CAA and NRC?

			Index

	1.	Are NRC and CAA separate?
	2. What is CAA and how can it be misused? 
		(a) CAA and why it’s unconstitutional
	 (b) How can CAA be misused

	3.	 What is the NRC?
		(a) What is NPR?
		(b) How is NRC linked to NPR?
		(c) Arguments against NRC
		 (i) Botched exercise in Assam
	 (ii) Loopholes and inconsistencies in current laws
		 (iii) Religious inequality
	 (iv) Economic cost
		 (v) Cost of error

	1.	Are NRC and CAA separate?

Yes. 

NRC is not a law, It is a process mandated by the Indian Citizenship ( Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules 2003.
Source

But are they connected? 

YES.

Since any rules issued from time to time by the government are taken into consideration while interpreting any law. In fact there is a clause in every Act specifying the same, in our case, Section 18 of the Indian Citizenship Act 1955.

Source

	2.	What is the CAA, how can it be misused?

(a) CAA and why it’s unconstitutional

The core idea is to make it easier for undocumented immigrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan to get Indian citizenship. The catch is that these immigrants can’t be Muslims.

Are there really ‘persecuted minorities’ that would benefit from this legislation?

Yes, 31,313 individuals to be precise.
This was revealed by the government itself during a hearing by a parliamentary committee on the 2016 version of the Bill. The committee had asked how many people would benefit from the legislation. The Intelligence Bureau replied:

But by specifically excluding Muslims (and Jews), the Bill has raised justified concerns that the Modi government is trying to enshrine religious discrimination into law. 

This when Article 14 of India’s constitution prohibits discrimination on religious basis.

Why does this Act violate Article 14?

Article 14 is Equality of Law.

‘the state shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of laws within the territory of India prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth’

The opposition MPs had pointed this out but Amit Shah insisted the exception to Article 14, “reasonable classification” when making laws. 

In simple words the State can discriminate between citizens on above grounds if special benefits are offered to them for eg; reservations for marginalised communities.

This matter of whether “reasonable classification” is justified is why the Act is being contended in the Courts and will be decided later.

(b) How can CAA be misused?

CAA can be amended only by parliamentary procedures. 

The government has said that the amendment was made to provide remedy to the six communities namely Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian community from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan seeking shelter from religious persecution or fear of religious persecution.

However, religious persecution is not cited anywhere in the CAA, 2019. The bare act reads:

"Provided that any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian community from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, who entered into India on or before the 31st day of December, 2014 and who has been exempted by the Central Government by or under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 or from the application of the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 or any rule or order made thereunder, shall not be treated as illegal migrant for the purposes of this Act;" 

Religious persecution is actually mentioned under the Rules to the amended Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920.

This is very important to understand because the Government can make changes to these rules anytime they want. Rules are basically subordinate laws that the central government can issue through a gazette notification at any time. These laws do not require the approval of the parliament.

*The above point will be important while explaining NRC.

Credit:

3. What is the NRC?

The National Register of Citizens (NRC) is a registry maintained by the Government of India containing names &amp; certain relevant information for identification of Indian citizens. 

The Nationwide NRC is as a process already underway through the NPR, which is proposed to be implemented in the 2021 census.

(a) What is the NPR?

The NPR is a list of “usual residents of the country”. According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, a “usual resident of the country” is one who has been residing in a local area for at least the last six months, or intends to stay in a particular location for the next six months. 

Unlike the NRC, the NPR is not a citizenship enumeration drive, as it would record even a foreigner staying in a locality for more than six months.
 It is mandatory for every “usual resident of India” to register in the NPR.

The NPR will collect both demographic data and biometric data. There are 15 different categories of demographic data, ranging from name and place of birth to education and occupation, that the RGI is supposed to collect in the NPR. 

For biometric data it will depend on Aadhaar, for which it will seek Aadhaar details of the residents. This will allow the Union government, for the first time, to connect their biometric details with information like the birthplace of their parents.

Apart from this, in a test run going on across the country, the RGI is seeking details of mobile number, Aadhaar, PAN card, Driving Licence, Voter ID card and passport (in case the resident is Indian). It is also working to update the Civil Registration System of birth and death certificates.

Even as issues of privacy associated with Aadhaar continue to be debated in the country, the NPR is on a drive to collect detailed data on residents of India. With the recent introduction of Personal Data Protection Bill, in which the Centre exempts its agencies from some or all provisions of the proposed bill there are a lot of red flags being raised about misuse of such data.

Source

(b) How is NPR linked to the NRC?

The legal framework for the National Population Register is grounded in the Citizenship Act, 1955. In 2003, the Act was amended by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP government to introduce the category of an “illegal migrant”. To implement this amendment, a set of rules were issued. 

(The link to the rules is the same as 1. Are CAA and NRC different)

The rules read: “The Central Government shall, for the purpose of National Register of Indian Citizens, cause to carry throughout the country a house-to-house enumeration for collection of specified particulars relating to each family and individual, residing in a local area including the Citizenship status”.

How would these registers of citizens be created? The rules explicitly spell it out: 

“The Local Register of Indian citizens shall contain details of persons after due verification made from the Population Register.”

When the Local Register is generated from the Population Register, a “verification process” would be carried out which would create the category of “doubtful citizenship”. 

The final National Register of Citizens would be prepared by asking doubtful citizens to prove they are Indians as part of a “claims and objections” process.

This Population Register mentioned in the rules is nothing other than the National Population Register.

Link
 In a gazette notification issued on July 31, 2019, the Modi government passed an order to “prepare and update the Population Register” in every state other than Assam.

Credits for info on NPR.
Credit
Credit

(c) Arguments against NRC.

	(i).	A botched exercise in Assam

The National Register of Citizens in Assam was updated over the past few years to identify undocumented migrants who had come mostly from Bangladesh after 1971. 

The updated NRC was supposed to document all those people whose names were listed in the NRC of 1951 and were still alive as well as their living descendants who could prove they were permanent residents of the state.

It was a botched exercise. There were many errors during the process.
Source

 In all, around 19 lakh people in Assam were excluded from the final register. 
Source

Soon, the BJP started complaining that many undocumented immigrants had been included in the register, while around five lakh Bengali Hindus were excluded. In fact, even some people who had campaigned for the BJP found themselves excluded.

Source: BJP complaining about a botched NRC
Source: 5 lakh Bengali Hindus excluded in NRC
Source: BJP campaigners find themselves excluded

Anyone who is not able to prove citizenship under NRC is put in detention centres.
Reports of the violation of Human rights in these detention centres is alarming.

Source: A newborn died in a detention centre in Assam. Their mother was later found not to be a foreigner.

	(ii).	Loopholes and inconsistencies in the existing citizenship laws

There is a lot of speculation around cut off dates and proving of ancestry based on the pilot NRC launched in Assam but nothing concrete so far can be determined since the nation wide Bill hasn’t been drafted.

But one thing we know for sure - every person resident in India will be required to prove their citizenship.

How does one prove their citizenship?

This is where matters get complex.

If we don’t consider the speculated ancestry provision which may or may not be included in the nation wide NRC, The current law for citizenship is as follows -

The Citizenship Act defines a citizen as:

Section 3:

Citizenship by birth —

(1) Except as provided in sub-section (2), every person born in India,—
(a) on or after the 26th day of January, 1950, but before the 1st day of July, 1987;

(b) on or after the 1st day of July, 1987, but before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 and either of whose parents is a citizen of India at the time of his birth;

(c) on or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003, where—
(i) both of his parents are citizens of India; or
(ii) one of whose parents is a citizen of India and the other is not an illegal migrant at the time of his birth, 

shall be a citizen of India by birth.

Short of this is,

If you were born in India before 1987 but after 1950, you are a citizen.

If you were born after 1987 but before 2003 and either of your parents are Indian citizens, you are a citizen.

If you were born after 2003 and both your parents are Indian citizens or one of your parents is an Indian citizen and the other is not an illegal immigrant, you are a citizen.

So if you were born before 1987, you’re an Indian citizen by birth.

If you’re born after 1987 you have to prove that your parents are Indian citizens. (What about the orphans?)

How do you do it?

If you’re born before 1987, you can prove citizenship by provision of birth certificate or other documents as may be prescribed by the NRC.

Assuming your parents were educated and organised enough they would be able to preserve your birth certificate and other such documents but people from lower middle class or slightly under privileged backgrounds may not have done the same because they weren’t educated and informed enough about the importance of these documents. This leaves a person in a state of handicap.

If you’re born after 1987, considering that almost 44% of India’s population is under 24 years of age and a total 85% of the population is under 54 years of age, we can safely conclude the above group constitutes a large chunk of India’s population.

You have to prove that at least one of your parents is an Indian citizen. So if you’re born after 1987 naturally your parents are born before 1987. You’ll have to provide the necessary documents of YOUR PARENTS
to prove THEY’RE Indian citizens. Basically they expect you to preserve and possess documents dating back to as much as the 1960’s.

Many news agencies are reporting that mere submitting of passports and Aadhar cards shall suffice and THIS IS ABSOLUTELY FALSE.

Mere submitting of passports, birth certificate shall not suffice to prove citizenship, this was ruled by Bombay high court in 2013.
Source

In conclusion,
67% of our population is still rural as per the 2015 census. This coupled with inadequate infrastructure and lacking admin capacities to implement a nationwide program like this would be a disaster.

	(iii).	Why NRC promotes inequality against the Muslims?

Imagine a scenario where a nationwide NPR is rolled out. The babus administering the exercise mess up and end up sending a whole bunch of people of all faiths a “specified proforma” from the register. 

Now, a legal recourse is available only to people of the six religions mentioned in the CAA. Do note that the law specifically says that people belonging to these faiths “shall not be treated as illegal migrants". Muslims, however, will not have any such recourse. For that matter, even Jews won’t be able to do anything about their exclusion from the register. 

As a result, lakhs and crores of excluded people might have to declare that they are illegal immigrants to become Indian citizens again.

The tricky part is proving religious persecution in another country.

To benefit from the CAA, the person issued a specified proforma by the NPR must prove that, one, they are a non-Muslim migrant from Afghanistan, Pakistan or Bangladesh, 

and, two, that they came to India to escape religious persecution. 

*(read with the point mentioned in CAA) But because the Government can make the rules under the Passport Act essentially at whim, the government can simply strike out the second condition and keep only the first.

Credit:

	(iv).	Economic cost

The Global economy is on a slowdown and India is no exception to it, I generally never attribute GDP numbers with a Government since the only active participation of a Government in a GDP is via public expenditure which is still crucial. However, when a Government actively makes policies which are detrimental to the state of the economy, then fingers will be pointed.

This is the case with NRC.

 In Assam alone it cost 1220 crores - 1500 crores and ended up in a massive failure.
Source:
 
The national cost of implementing the NRC would run into lakhs of crores. With the Indian economy in its current situation, implementing NRC would surely leave a visible dent on the Indian economy. Especially when there is absence of any ROI (Return on Investment) from such a policy.

The estimated cost of this might be close to 2-3 lakh crores (unverified).

Source: This is an opinion piece and the figures may have the effect of being inflated or underestimated.

Say, it costs 3 lakh crores, it’s still just 1.57% of our last year’s GDP i.e. $2.72 Trillion.

However, just like Demonetisation this act will bring the country to a halt. People will have to line up yet again at verification centres, for document verification, follow ups &amp; enquiries. 

In Assam, the NRC updating started on July 30, 2018 and ended on August 31, 2019 and despite taking over an year to complete this process, the entire process ended up in material inconsistencies and glaring errors.
Source:

A nation-wide implementation would cost years in loss of productivity and the economic cost of this practice would be dangerous.

Demonetisation caused the GDP growth to drop to 6.1%, though it recovered in the later quarters and consumption patterns stabilised too.
Source:.

Over 1.5 million jobs were lost in Q3 of FY 2016-17 post implementation of demonetisation.
Source CMIE report.

The nation wide implementation of NRC will have a similar or larger impact on the economy but this time it will come with a substantial human cost.

	(v).	Cost of Error

The NRC exercise would be highly prone to error—both Type I and Type II. 

Explanation:

Type I errors: False positives 

Mistakenly identifying a person as an immigrant from protected minority communities such as Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan, and erroneously giving them the benefit of Indian citizenship. 

Immigrants are usually a net economic benefit; so the costs of Type I errors are only confined to national security. 

These costs are not nationwide and typically limited to a handful of border districts in India.

Type II errors: False negatives

These occur when those who qualify as Indian citizens are mistakenly categorized as illegal immigrants. A nationwide NRC, if similar to the one in Assam, would imply that false negatives get sent to detention centres or deported.

Type II errors are extremely costly. To minimize false negatives, the bar to qualify as a citizen has to be very simple and easily identifiable. 

Also, infrastructure to scrutinize the paperwork for the NRC has to be exceptionally efficient. 

The Indian state usually fails on both counts. Given the CAB’s current religious exclusionary basis, Muslims are at higher risk of exclusion through false negatives, though all groups, including Hindus, are likely to be affected by errors.

There are three main issues to consider here. 

The first is the trade-off between Type I and Type II errors. 

If, to avoid false positives, the government has a high level of scrutiny for NRC inclusion, all individuals will have the burden of meeting this higher bar. In the process, some might be mistakenly excluded. 

On the other hand, if the bar is set very low to prevent false negatives and erroneous exclusions, then some illegal immigrants may slip through the cracks. 
The current CAB framework, combined with the NRC, is set up to minimize false positives, which will automatically increase false negatives.

The third issue is of the magnitude of error.

1) If Govt executes well with 5% error, 67.5 million people will be displaced (equalling displacement by WW II)

2) If it has Aadhaar error rate (8.8%) 120 million will be left out.

3) If it has 1% error, still 13.5 million Indians will be displaced (same as partition of India)

Both the source materials for the data above are opinion pieces since the numbers can only be estimated as of now and should be read accordingly.

Source:
Source:

Please share this with others who may find this information useful and open up discussions with supporters of the CAA bill.
Hope this helped. Jai Hind!

Footnote:
Opinion -
There are a lot of narratives around the CAA and NRC but one thing that we need to stress on too is that illegal immigrants coming to India are disenfranchised and very poor. To blanket categorise them as some evil “infiltrators” stealing our lands and jobs is unfair and inhumane.