1. The matter has been taken up on receipt of two reports dated

 25.09.2019 and 26.09.2019 from Justice Arun Tandon, former Judge

 of the Allahabad High Court, who has been appointed as a head of a

 Committee to oversee the compliance of the order of this Tribunal for

 control of pollution in River Ganga vide order dated 06.08.2018 in

 O.A No. 200/2014, M.C Mehta v. Union of India . 2. The order of this Tribunal dealt with the matter on transfer by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court of proceedings pending before it in W.P. 1 (Civil) No. 3727/1985 on the subject of control of pollution of River

Ganga. The Tribunal dealt with the matter vide two orders

10.12.2015 and 13.07.2017 with respect to different segments.

Execution of the said orders is pending. The last order on the subject

was passed on 22.08.2019, dealing with prevention of discharge of

untreated industrial waste and sewage in Ganga and its tributaries,

installation, maintenance and upgradation of STPs , CETPs and

ETPs, control of dumping of waste, regulating the flood plains,

maintaining e-flow and taking other steps. An extract from the order

to the extent relevant for dealing with the present issue is as follows: 3. Though the matter relating to all aspects of pollution of River Ganga

 is being separately dealt with as above, present reports highlight an

 emergent issue threatening the life and health of citizens in a

 particular area requiring intervention by this Tribunal. We thus

 proceed to deal with the said reports. Ms. Katyani, Advocate present

 in court is appointed as Amicus to assist in the matter. Mr.

 Rajkumar, Advocate for the CPC B present before the Tribunal enters

 appearance. 4. We first take up the report filed in O.A No. 986/2019 relating to

 Kanpur Nagar, Uttar Pradesh around the area of Chromium dump at

 Rania, Kanpur Dehat and Rakhi Mandi, Kanpur Nagar Water

 Pollution at Rania, Kanpur Dehat and Rakhi Mandi, Kanpur. As

 already noted, the said dump of hazardous Waste has been in

 existence since 1976 and inspite of repeated orders, the authorities

 have failed to ensure its shifting. This gross failure of responsibility

 by the State of U.P. has resulted in situation depicted in the report

 which we will presently refer. 5. Justice Arun Tandon along with the representatives of the NMCG, CPC B, UPPCB, UP Jal Nigam and the local residents of the area 3 visited the sites and noticed the status of the Rania and Rakhi

Mandi, Kanpur as follows: 6. The following measures have been suggested: 7. A bottle of water of sample collected on 17/18.09.2019 from Khan

 Chandpur handpump duly signed by Justice Arun Tandon has also

 been received which is handed over to Sh. Rajkumar, Advocate for the CPC B. The CPC B may have the same analyzed and furnish its

 report to this Tribunal with all relevant details before the next date. 8. The above report is self-speaking and paints a grim picture of failure

 of the authorities in taking remedial measures, forcing the

 inhabitants to drink polluted water which is a serious hazard to the

 health. Needless to say that access to potable drinking water is a

 guaranteed fundamental right and inalienable duty of the State. The

 State has clearly failed in doing so in the present case. As suggested

 in the report, it is necessary to require remedial measures to be taken

 especially with regard to supply of drinking water to the affected

 inhabitants in the area. 9. The second report relates to Water Pollution by Tanneries at Jajmau,

 Kanpur. Apart from the fact that incorrect information was given to

 the Committee appointed by the Tribunal as mentioned in the report,

 the report shows that vide order dated 08.08.2019, Shri Manoj

 Kumar Singh, Principal Secretary, Urban Development, UP allowed

 the Jal Nigam, Kanpur to discharge effluents into River Ganga,

 pending cleaning of the trunk sewer. Such discharge is still

 continuing. 43 MLD STP was non-functional and may require one

 year to be functional. Industrial effluent to the extent of 10-12 MLD

 received in CETP was being pumped into irrigation canal untreated. 10. Any discharge of pollutants into a water body is prohibited under Section 25 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,

 1974 and is punishable by imprisonment. We are surprised that the 7 Principal Secretary of the State has permitted such violation of law.

 The Uttar Pradesh State PCB was bound to initiate action for

 prosecuting such officer and all those discharging pollutants in River

 Ganga and failure to do appears to be against the mandate of law. 11. The report refers to two charts furnished by the NMCG handed over

 to the Committee which are contradictory as follows: 11.44 MLD MLD) 12. The report mentions that while on 17.07.2019, information was given

 that STPs and CETP at Jajmau and Kanpur were not functional, on

 02.09.2019, it was stated that the same were functional. We also note

 that from the minutes of meeting held on 02.09.2019 in the

 conference room of the NMCG under the Chairmanship of Justice

 Arun Tandon: It becomes necessary for this Tribunal to intervene for remedial

 action. 13. Accordingly, we direct: