Two politicians and a political activist have received notifications from Apple warning them about a “mercenary spyware” attack that attempted to compromise their devices. Those affected include political activist Pushparaj Deshpande, senior Indian National Congress leader KC Venugopal, and Iltija Mufti, PDP leader and daughter of former Jammu Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti.

Deshpande and Mufti posted the notifications they received on X on July 10 while Venugopal followed on the 13th. The notification stated, “Apple detected that you are being targeted by a mercenary spyware attack that is trying to remotely compromise the iPhone associated with your Apple ID.” It adds, “This track is likely targeting you because of who you are or what you do.”

Countless problems facing India which GoI should be redressing. Instead it’s more focused in deploying #Pegasus to scare & suppress. Let PM @narendramodi & HM @AmitShah do their worst. We shall prevail ✊🏻! pic.twitter.com/gb9Qky3kut

Got an Apple alert that my phone’s been hacked by Pegasus which GOI has admittedly procured & weaponised to harass critics & political opponents. BJP shamelessly snoops on women only because we refuse to toe their line. How low will you stoop? @PMOIndia @HMOIndia pic.twitter.com/ohzbCO8txI

Thank you PM Modi ji for sending your favourite malicious spyware on my phone also! Apple has been kind enough to intimate me about this special present of yours! Let’s be clear, the Modi government is acting in a criminal and unconstitutional manner, going after political… pic.twitter.com/VrwF9TGdek

The email received by Venugopal stated that he had been sent a similar notification in October 2023 as well. The message also made references to Pegasus, a spyware from the Israeli NSO Group, as an example.

Apple states that such attacks are “exceptionally rare and vastly more sophisticated” than regular cybercrime, requiring millions of dollars to execute. The smartphone giant had sent notifications to users in 98 countries on July 10, warning them of mercenary spyware attacks. Apple has been regularly sending these notifications since 2021, reaching users in over 150 countries.

Pegasus is a malware developed by an Israeli firms known NSO Group. The virus can not only intercept communications sent to and from a device, but also remotely turn on a phone’s camera and microphone to capture activity in phone’s vicinity and use GPS functions to track a target’s location and movements. It can be installed on a target’s phone through a few different means: exploiting vulnerabilities in apps, sending infected links to targets (spear phishing) or social engineering.

According to its website, NSO Group, which also goes by Q Cyber Technologies, develops technology to “help government agencies detect and prevent terrorism and crime”. Notably, its products are used exclusively by government intelligence and law enforcement agencies.

The spyware was used to target 300 Indian phone numbers, used by prominent politicians, bureaucrats, journalists and activists. These include Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, journalists Siddharth Varadarajan, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, and apprehended activists Rona Wilson and Vernon Gonsalves.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event