We’d like to take a moment to thank our sponsors for having chosen to support MediaNama in its endeavor to provide our readers with insightful and detailed coverage of the evolving digital ecosystem in India. To advertise on MediaNama download our MediaKit here (pdf). There’s a premium ad spot now available after being blocked for over two years.

Our thanks go out to everyone who has supported us, and to our sponsors for the month of February and March 2013:

CCAvenue is India’s largest payment gateway solution powering 85% of the eMerchants in India across all verticals & has played the role of a catalyst to the growth of ecommerce with real time, multi-currency, multiple payment options online payment processing services. The solution is powered by proprietary technology that integrates transaction-processing, advance shopping cart, Invoicing, mobile page, risk assessment and fraud control, smart analytical dashboards, live monitoring of bank gateways, financial reporting etc. CCAvenue is the only complete PG solution in the country that has the unique ability to offer the full spectrum of 100+ Internet payment options.

E2E Networks : India’s most clued in dedicated hosting company founded by geeks. E2E Networks Private Limited has been into the business of providing Low latency Dedicated Servers and VPS Servers in India since 2009. E2E Networks goes way beyond merely provisioning servers/cloud infrastructure. Our expertise includes strategies and managed services help for implementing the most suitable cloud architecture based on public, private or hybrid cloud platforms for your web facing or enterprise applications.

Flipkart.com , India’s largest e-commerce brand for physical goods, started with books in 2007, and entered the consumer electronics category with the launch of mobile phones, in September 2010. Since then, it has grown rapidly with the introduction of innovative features like Cash on Delivery (CoD), 30 day replacement guarantee and its own delivery network. Today, the portfolio is spread across 15 categories – from books to music, mobiles, computers, cameras, home & kitchen appliances, TV & home theatre systems, personal and healthcare products, and the newly launched stationery items and perfumes. In addition to these, Flipkart has also made a foray into the emerging digital content market with the recent launch of Flyte, the digital music store.

Flipkart is rapidly expanding its network of warehouses, distribution centers, procurement operations and 24/7 customer support teams. The company has a dedicated partner for last-mile deliveries in 50 cities. With a team of around 5000 members, the company operates from offices and warehouses in seven Indian cities.

PayU India is the flagship company of Naspers group which is a $25 Billion internet and media conglomerate listed on London and Johannesburg stock exchanges respectively. Owing to its innovation leveraging technology, patent pending algorithms, robust salesforce and amazing customer service, PayU achieved the feat of having the highest merchant acquisition rate in the country. PayU’s success story is seconded by the fact that is now the No.1 payment aggregator in the Indian e-commerce category and No.3 player in the overall payments Industry. PayU serves more than 4000 merchants as on date which includes names like Jabong, Ferns n Petals, Goibibo, Tradus, Rechargeitnow, Travelyaari, Zomato and Groupon India. On an interesting note, PayU has processed more transactions than IRCTC does daily!

Saavn – No work, all play!:  Saavn provides the best Bollywood and Indian music listening experience, online and on the go.  Its site and top-rated iOS and Android apps give people legal access to the largest indian music library anywhere.  Saavn has partnerships with all the major music companies to give users access to millions of songs, albums, and playlists, including the best of Bollywood, bhangra, bhajans, ghazals, and more, with new releases added every day.  With Saavn, people never need to transfer music again and playlists are always in sync, whether online or on the go.  Saavn has also partnered with global leaders like Google, Facebook, Airtel and several other groups. With no piracy and no malware, Saavn makes listening as easy as ek, do, teen.

Spice Digital Ltd : a part of Spice Global Group – US$2 Billion conglomerate promoted by Dr. BK Modi, is one of India’s leading Mobile Value Added Services company and offers innovative solutions for Telecom Operators, Enterprises and Government using mobile connectivity media – Voice, SMS, USSD, WAP & 3G. We are preferred partner of all major telecom service providers in India and providing services to international telecom players in over 20 countries across the globe. We are pioneers in innovation and technology and committed to deliver excellent Award winning products and services to the customers.

We have exclusive tie-ups with Hungama and PPL for music streaming services. We have acquired two leading international VAS players, MMS (Indonesia) and Beoworld (Malaysia). Recently, we had a major financial investment from MediaTek (Taiwan).

Times Internet Limited (TIL) is the internet and mobile venture of India’s largest media house—the Times Group. TIL websites are among the fastest growing web-based networks worldwide. TIL has led the internet revolution in India and has emerged as India’s foremost web entity, running diverse portals and niche websites.

Indiatimes.com is TIL’s flagship brand. The internet portal encompasses news, business news, lifestyle, music, video, local, e-commerce, deals, online advertisement solutions, communities, mobile, MVAS, digital investments, and more. TIL is undoubtedly India’s preferred online and mobile value-added services destination for millions of surfers and subscribers looking for rich and diverse digital content. TIL, the multi-faceted portal, commands more than one billion page views per month. The other key properties in the TIL portfolio includeTimesofindia.com – world no.1 news site in terms of page views, and economictimes.com – India’s no.1 business news website.

In the mobile space, Indiatimes 58888 is the largest direct-to-consumer SMS and IVR shortcode, accessed by over 50mn consumers across all telecom operators in India.

*

We’d also like to thank you, our readers, for the time and effort you spend in critiquing our content, participating in debates in the comments, calling up for more information, and demanding more of us, and of course, all the anonymous tips . We’re trying our best to match your expectations of us.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event