Rajya Sabha lawmakers passed the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Bill, 2025, earlier today, as the bill cleared the hurdles of both the lower and upper Houses of Parliament.

It establishes a legal framework governing the online gaming sector, including e-sports and social games, while imposing strict prohibition on real money gaming (RMG) and gambling.

The Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Bill, 2025 passed by the Parliament. The Bill takes a balanced approach – promoting what’s good, prohibiting what’s harmful for middle-class and youth. Here’s a quick explainer 👇🧵 pic.twitter.com/q4Pthsrb2V

Defining “online money game” as any game in which a user places stakes with the expectation of winning, the act imposes a blanket ban on such games as well as their advertising. It also prohibits financial institutions from processing payments linked to online money gaming. However, the act excludes e-sports from this definition.

Consequently, the bill has caused consternation among stakeholders in the online money gaming space.

Anuraag Saxena, CEO of the E-Gaming Federation, that seeks to voluntarily regulate the online gaming industry in India, asked the Government to have a balanced approach that distinguished between skill-based and chance-based games.

“Global experience shows that calibrated regulation delivers better outcomes than blanket restrictions, which can unintentionally nudge users towards unregulated offshore platforms,” Saxena said.

“The sector is already creating employment, fostering innovation, and contributing to the economy. Thoughtful regulation can amplify the positive impact while ensuring responsible and fair practices remain at the core,” he added.

Anurag Dhandhi, Business Head at Probo, an opinion trading app that has reportedly shut operations in India, similarly asked the government for a “balanced” regulatory approach that recognised opinion trading as a skill-based activity.

“In India, opinion trading has been characterised as a game. However, in the United States of America, it has been regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a Designated Contract Market – or in layman’s terms – a financial market for information exchange and trading.

“At its very core, opinion trading (prediction markets) is a tool for economic insight, information aggregation, and forecasting that enables users to apply judgment, knowledge and analysis to real-world developments,” he said.

On the other hand, companies making video games commended the bill for differentiating between real money games, and video games and e-sports.

The CEO of Dot9Games, Deepak Ail supported the bill, claiming that it allowed them to nurture original Intellectual Property (IP).

Further, Mansoor Ahmed, CEO of games-focused marketing agency AfterMath Ventures, welcomed the focus on esports, while Vishal Gondal, Founder of nCORE Games, supported the government’s decision to prohibit RMG.

“Too many young lives were being lost to addiction & debt,” he said.

I welcome the Govt’s decision to prohibit Real Money Gaming & establish a strong regulatory framework. 🇮🇳 Too many young lives were being lost to addiction & debt. This decisive step safeguards our youth while unlocking the future of Indian gaming — driven by original IP,…

Elsewhere, Sumit Batheja, CEO and Co-Founder, Ginger Games, said: “We applaud this decision as it allows us to focus on the ongoing concerns as a business — monetisation, retention, and most importantly, building great IP for India and the world, rather than having to explain to our audiences what we are to begin with.”

Furthermore, Managing Director of NODWIN Gaming, Akshat Rathee said: “The government’s intent to recognise and promote esports, as highlighted in the recent bill, is an encouraging step towards building a structured and globally competitive ecosystem. However, for this vision to truly materialise, it is critical that the terminology used in the bill, particularly the distinctions between esports, online gaming, online social gaming, and online money gaming be clearly defined and uniformly understood.”

Meanwhile, the CEO of S8UL Esports, Animesh Agarwal remarked: “By drawing a clear line between skill-based competitive gaming and betting, it (the bill) safeguards the integrity of our ecosystem while opening doors for structured growth.”

In a stock exchange filing yesterday, Nazara Technologies, which is India’s only public gaming company, claimed that it had no direct exposure to the RMG sector.

“The Company’s only indirect exposure to RMG is through its 46.07% stake in Moonshine Technologies Private Limited (PokerBaazi). As Nazara does not hold a majority stake or exercise control, Moonshine’s revenue is not consolidated in the Company’s financial statements and has no impact on the Company’s reported Revenue or EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortisation),” said the filing. It also stated that Moonshine’s contribution to the company’s Profit After Tax (PAT) was negative this quarter.

However, it is important to note that PokerBaazi, even as an associate business, is one of Nazara’s most successful enterprises, bringing in Rs. 191.8 crore in revenue this quarter, a YoY jump of 54%.

Priyank Kharge, the Minister of Electronics, Information Technology (IT) & Biotechnology for Karnataka criticised the bill, calling it a “rushed move” that was a “mistake”.

“Wiping out this sector will not solve the problem, it will only drive over 40 crore (400 million) users in our country to illegal offshore betting platforms. We’ve seen this play out before where prohibition failed and underground markets flourished,” he wrote on LinkedIn. Kharge added that banning the sector could impact Rs. 25,000 crore in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), and lead to the loss of Rs. 10,000 crore in annual industry advertising spending.

“What we need is a rational regulatory framework that protects users and national security while allowing legitimate skill-based gaming to thrive” he said. “Regulation, not prohibition, is the way forward,” he added.

Union Minister For Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Ashwini Vaishnaw, stated that online gaming companies had links to financial fraud, terror financing and money laundering. He also added that many RMG companies operated as offshore entities and evaded Indian taxes and laws.

In another interview, he stated that online money gaming was a bigger problem than drugs.

MeitY Secretary S Krishnan spoke about the potential risk of job losses in the online gaming industry. “The number of jobs created are in the thousands. And the number of livelihoods affected are in the hundreds of millions,” he said, adding that the government had to balance the overall social good with job losses.

He also stated that the bill made a clear distinction between e-sports, which the government intends to promote, and money gaming, which would be subject to restrictions.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event