SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is my friend’s mom in trouble?
DATE: 2023-10-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/170gwb8/is_my_friends_mom_in_trouble/

--- POST TEXT ---

Here’s the scenario. 

I study and work in the Finance field. 

A close friend of mine (25F) has moved to Canada for Masters. I (25F) live in India.

I don’t know much about their financials and family dynamics. I just know my friend telling me her mom helped her out with her tuitions instead of student finance as the banks and NBFCs either had too long of a process or application was rejected. 

Now, Aunty (her mom) is a sweet and calm lady. She’s decently educated but could be naive financially. 

She has reached out to me asking for financial help of 2L and to not let me friend know about it.

It sounded like an emergency so I’ve sent 1L liquid fund out of my emergency savings.

The next day, she texts me the reason she needs the money. In her words, ‘She has started trading, already received a profit of 20% and now need to pay the principal amount’ and that the transaction has happened, she has sent the amount of 2L to this third party friend and now is waiting for her profits. 

I dreaded this already. I could sense she’s being scammed or duped by the other party. I asked her if she’s trading on a platform, whether this is share or options trading. I then told her there are many scams that run like this and that I hope she’s not in trouble. If she if we can sort it out. 

‘The trading is done by some childhood friend who’s been doing this since 6 months. They have already allotted her profit of 1L at 5%. She needs to pay the principal amount to receive her full and final. They’re registered in the stock market’

None of this made any sense. Maybe Aunty got overconfident with this friend and doesn’t realise if she’s being duped or not. Now she has texted me saying she’ll need two days to repay since she hasn’t received the funds. 

I got a better picture. Those idiots who are trading have asked for 2L because I think they’re in losses and trying to recover by duping this lady. Or I could be entirely wrong.

I don’t know what to do. I live in Mumbai and my friend’s mom and fam lives in Hyderabad. 

How should I approach this?