1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The Petitioner- Dhruv Krishan Maggu in the present case seeks return
of his laptop, computer, documents and other things which were seized by
the Respondents / Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) in a
search conducted on 28th August, 2019 vide panchnama dated 28th August,
2019. 3. The brief background of this case is that the DGGI is stated to have
received a communication from the Chief Manager, Allahabad Bank, Jawala
Heri Market, Paschim Vihar informing the DGGI Headquarters of certain
high level transactions related to refund of GST credited to four bank
accounts. The said accounts were newly opened and the refund amount was
being withdrawn immediately by the bank account holders. This
communication was received in February, 2019. It was observed that the W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 1 of 9 2022/DHC/005527

addresses of all the firms were the same. Owing to the action taken at that
time, the bank accounts of M/s Monal Enterprises, Aircon Overseas, Micra
Overseas, and Ganeshi Inc., were frozen. The total amount credited in the
bank accounts of the said companies was found to be to the tune of
Rs.10,32,21,718/-. Follow up action and, further, enquiries accompanied
with search conducted at the premises, which was a common address of all
the four firms, revealed that the firms were, in fact, non-functional and non-
existent. 4. The statements of the proprietors were recorded which revealed that
the said individuals namely, Mr. Deepak Kumar Mishra, Mr. Santosh Prasad
and Mr. Manoj Kumar were not aware of any details and they have merely
provided their IDs such as PAN card, Aadhaar card to one Mr. Mukesh
Kumar and signed a lot of documents. According to the DGGI, further
investigation revealed that a total number of 23 fake firms were opened in
the names of persons who were found to be labourers, drivers, cooks, street
hawkers, etc. The fraudulent refunds of IGST of more than Rs. 63 crores is
stated to have been siphoned off by these persons/firms. 5. The counter affidavit on behalf of the Respondents reveals that there
are various allegations of IGST refund and certain individuals including Mr.
Dhruv Maggu, the present Petitioner, Mr. Ramesh Wadera and Mr. Sanjeev
Maggu and his brother Mr. Akhil Krishan Muggu were found to be involved
in the process of availing IGST refunds and siphoning the same. FIRs are
stated to have been registered in this regard. The counter affidavit claims
that in the process of unearthing these transactions the search and seizure
were conducted at B-773, Sushant Lok-1, Gurugram, Haryana in which
computer, laptops, documents and other documents were seized on 28th W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 2 of 9 2022/DHC/005527

August, 2019, the release of which is sought for in this petition. The relief
sought in this petition is as under: 6. The submission of Mr. Akhil Krishnan Maggu, ld. Counsel for the
Petitioner is that he had represented the four firms/ individuals and had
sought defreezing of bank accounts in W.P.(C) 3304/2019 titled Micra
Overseas v. Directorate of GST Intelligence & Anr, however, finally the
said writ came to be withdrawn. It is his submission that since he was
involved in that case, his family is sought to be implicated. He submits that
despite substantial time having lapsed since 15th August, 2019, as per him
when the seizure took place from the Petitioner, computer, laptops,
documents, etc. are not being released. He relies upon Section 67(7) of the
Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter „ CGST Act, 2017 ‟)
and submits that when such seizure is affected, within six months, the goods
ought to be returned. Ld. counsel for the Petitioner further submits that there
is no proper seizure which has been made in the present petition. Moreover,
since the authorities have already taken the backup of the data the main
laptop ought to be released to the Petitioner. 7. On the other hand, Mr. Ravi Prakash, ld. Counsel appearing for the
Respondents has taken the Court through the scheme of Section 67 read with Section 74 of the CGST Act, 2017. It is his submission that Section 67(7) W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 3 of 9 2022/DHC/005527

would not be applicable in the present case, as there were no goods which
were seized. In the present case confiscation has taken place of 'documents,
books or other things' which would be governed by Section 67(2) of the
Act. As per second proviso of Section 67(2) , so long as 'the documents,
books, or other things' are required for enquiry or proceedings under the
Act, the same can be retained by the officer. He, further, submits that under Section 74 (10) of the CGST Act, 2017, when a determination of tax is to be
made in respect of Input Tax Credit which is wrongly availed of by reason
of fraud or wilful misstatement or suppression to evade tax, the proper
officer has to pass an order within a period of five years. This is in contrast
with determination of tax under Section 73(10) , where no fraud or wilful
misstatement or suppression is involved, wherein the period of three years is
provided for passing the order. 8. He submits that, in the present case, Section 67(2) read with Section
67(3) , Section 74(2) and Section 74(10) would show that the period as
prescribed in these provisions have not yet lapsed and in view thereof, the
Respondents would proceed in accordance with law. It is the further stand of
the department that it was able to unearth a scam involving GST refunds and
the Petitioner and his family was found to be complicit in the same. 9. Heard ld. Counsel for the parties. The relevant sub sections of Sections 67 and Section 74 of the CGST Act 2017, read as under: section (2) or any other documents, books or things
 produced by a taxable person or any other person,
 which have not been relied upon for the issue of notice
 under this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be
 returned to such person within a period not exceeding
 thirty days of the issue of the said notice. xxx
 (7) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (2)
 and no notice in respect thereof is given within six
 months of the seizure of the goods, the goods shall be
 returned to the person from whose possession they
 were seized: Xxx 74. Determination of tax not paid or short paid or
 erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly
 availed or utilised by reason of fraud or any wilful-
 misstatement or suppression of facts (1) Where it
 appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been
 paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or where
 input tax credit has been wrongly availed or utilised
 by reason of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 6 of 9 2022/DHC/005527

 suppression of facts to evade tax, he shall serve notice
 on the person chargeable with tax which has not been
 so paid or which has been so short paid or to whom the
 refund has erroneously been made, or who has
 wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit, requiring
 him to show cause as to why he should not pay the
 amount specified in the notice along with interest
 payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty
 equivalent to the tax specified in the notice. (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under
 sub-section (1) at least six months prior to the time
 limit specified in sub-section (10) for issuance of
 order. xxx
 (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under
 sub-section (9) within a period of five years from the
 due date for furnishing of annual return for the
 financial year to which the tax not paid or short paid
 or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised relates
 to or within five years from the date of erroneous
 refund." 10. There is a clear distinction brought about in the CGST Act, 2017 in
case of inspection, search and seizure of „documents or books or things‟ in
contrast to seizure of „goods‟. A perusal of sub- section 67(2) of the CGST
Act, 2017 makes it clear that whereas the first proviso would apply qua
seizure of goods, the second proviso would apply in respect of documents or
books or things. In the case of documents or books or things, the same can
be retained by the officer for so long as it is required for examination and for
inquiry of proceedings under the CGST Act, 2017 . This is in contrast with Section 67(7) as per which when goods are seized, the said seized goods
have to be returned to the person who whom they were seized within six
months of the seizure of goods, unless and until, the proper officer, on W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 7 of 9 2022/DHC/005527

sufficient cause, extends the same for a further period of not exceeding then
six months. 11. Section 74 of the CGST Act, 2017 deals with wrong availment of
Input Tax Credit on grounds of egregious nature such as fraud, wilful
misstatement or suppression of facts. The present case would be governed
by Section 74 owing to the nature of the seizure made, the facts revealed and
the investigation currently being conducted. The proper officer under Section 74(2) has to issue a show-cause notice as per Section 74 , at least six
months prior to the time limit specified in Sub- section 74(10) for issuance of
the order. Under sub- section 74(10) the proper officer has five years from
the date of erroneous refund to pass the order in such cases. A conjoint
reading of Section 74(2) and Section 74(10) would clearly show that the
maximum period for issuance of the show-cause notice is six months prior
to five years from the date of the erroneous refund. As per Section 67(3) , if
the documents, books or things are not being relied upon for the issuance of
notice under the CGST Act, 2017 , the same are supposed to be returned
within a period not exceeding thirty days from the issue of the said notice.
Thus, by a conjoint reading of sections 67(2) second proviso, 67(3), 74(2),
74(10) the 'documents or book or things' can be retained for a maximum
period of four and half years, within which period the notice has to be
issued, plus thirty days from the date of erroneous refund. In the present
case, the said period had not yet lapsed. Accordingly, at this stage, this Court
does not deem it appropriate to direct release of the computer, laptop,
documents and other things seized vide punchnama dated 28th August, 2019. 12. Needless to add that the authorities shall proceed in accordance with
law and adhere to the timelines which are prescribed in law. 2022/DHC/005527 13. The writ petitions are accordingly dismissed. All pending
applications, are disposed of. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J
DECEMBER 12, 2022
dj/sk W.P.(C) 7517/2020 Page 9 of 9