1. Nine jail inmates of Sabarmati Central Prison, situated at Ahmedabad, have jointly moved this writ petition invoking the writ jurisdiction of This Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India with reference to provisions of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India and have prayed that appropriate writ, direction or order may kindly be issued against the respondents/authorities in terms of relief prayed mainly in sub-Paragraphs (B), (C), (D) and (E)(i) in Paragraph 16 of the petition. 2. The Counsel appearing for the parties are heard in piecemeal as the parties have attempted to clarify their stand qua the dispute raised by the petitioners by filing affidavit and counter-affidavit at various stages and have also produced documents in support of their say expressed in the respective affidavits. I have gone through all the affidavits filed and the Counsel appearing for the parties have also taken me through the relevant facts stated in the affidavit filed in this matter and they have taken me through the relevant legal provisions as well as the Government Resolutions, Circulars, issued by the State Government and the relevant part of Jail Manual. For brevity and convenience and with a view to appreciate the contentions raised by the parties, it would be proper to quote the relevant part of relief clause referred to hereinabove: 3. The case of the petitioners: 12. It is respectfully submitted that it is absolutely necessary that this Hon'ble Court is pleased to apprise itself by an independent enquiry to be conducted on the spot by a personal visit by an independent officer to be appointed by this Hon'ble Court, so that the above-referred facts can be brought to the notice of this Hon'ble Court effectively. It is true that, normally, Commissions are not appointed for the purpose of gathering facts to fortify the claim made by a litigant. However, in the peculiar facts of the present case, this Hon'ble Court may be pleased to appoint an independent officer to be selected by this Hon'ble Court with a direction to him to make a personal visit to the Sabarmati Central Prison and make a report and produce the report before this Hon'ble Court with respect to the conditions of the jail inmates in the Sabarmati Central Prison before and after posting of respondent No. 3. 3.3 Though, nine persons are the petitioners, four different vakalatnamas are produced in the petition of the Learned Counsel Mr. Tushar Mehta and approximately 178 persons have signed these vakalatnamas. Mr. Mehta has clarified that these signatures on vakalatnamas are not obtained with a view to create any show before the Court and also it should not be considered that the signatures are obtained to create any positive impression in the mind of Court nor the same should be treated negatively. 3.4 The Learned Counsel appearing for the petitioners on the day of the circulation of the present petition had prayed for ad interim relief in terms of Paragraph (E)(ii) to stay and suspend the operation, implementation and enforcement of the impugned order of transfer of respondent No. 3 and had prayed that respondent No. 3 may be restrained from handing over the charge as Superintendent, Sabarmati Central Prison. On 18th November, 2003 This Court instead of granting aforesaid interim relief has passed the following order: 4. In response to the notice issued by This Court on 18th November, 2003 making it returnable on 20th November, 2003, a request for adjournment was made by learned G.P. Mr. A. D. Oza on 20th November, 2003 and the matter was adjourned to 24th November, 2003. On 24th November, 2003 the reply-affidavit on behalf of respondent Nos. 1 and 2 dated 21st November, 2003 has been tendered. The said affidavit-in-reply has been filed by one Mr V.M. Chauhan, Joint Secretary, Home Department, Jails, State of Gujarat, along with the documents referred in the affidavit. The stand of the respondent Nos. 1 and 2, in brief, is that the petition is misconceived and the documents accompanying the petition, if appreciated, it can reasonably inferred that the same is filed at the behest of respondent No. 3, Mr. Sanjeev Bhatt, who has been transferred from Sabarmati Central Jail, Ahmedabad. Substantially, the order of transfer has been challenged by the petitioners. Otherwise, the copy which was endorsed by the Government to respondent No. 3 could not have been produced as one of the Annexures with the petition, that is, Annexure-A. The petitioners must have been supplied with the copy of the impugned transfer order at respondent No. 3. When the transfer is an incident of service, it was otherwise difficult for respondent No. 3 to challenge the order of his transfer as it was passed for administrative reasons and the same does not suffer from any illegality or infirmity. The attempt has been made by respondent No. 3 to get his transfer order stayed and the order of transfer cannot be said to have violated or contravened any of the rights of the petitioners. According to respondent Nos. 1 and 2, the petitioners have no right either constitutional or statutory - to say that they are entitled to have a particular person as the Superintendent of Central Jail or to request the Government to continue or to have any relief from This Court which would bind the Government to a particular person as Superintendent of a particular Jail. The averments notwithstanding phrase "right to life" guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India made by the petitioners are absurd and under this alleged right they cannot get the relief to continue to have a particular person posted as the Superintendent of the Jail. When the order of transfer is perfectly legal and when the same is not challenged by the concerned officer in any manner directly before This Court, none of the reliefs as prayed for in Paragraph 16 of the petition can be granted. The order of transfer of respondent No. 3 is passed pursuant to the decision taken by the authority who is competent to transfer respondent No. 3 and respondent No. 3 is holding a transferable post and as the said transfer is in public interest, it is neither violative of any statutory rule nor was passed mala fide. The decision of transfer was not taken by the authority as a "punitive measure", but it was in the interest of the administration and with a view to ensure that no further damage is done to the order of discipline of Sabarmati Central Jail. Thus, there is no contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The State has averred in the affidavit that the competent authority is willing to place the original file containing the relevant record and papers before the Court for perusal. There is no locus for the petitioners to challenge the order of transfer at Annexure-A. On the contrary, the State has made the grievance in Paragraph 6 of the affidavit that it would be wrong to create an impression that there will be complete vacuum in the administration and reforms if respondent No. 3 is shifted from Sabarmati Central Jail. On the contrary, various steps taken by respondent No. 3 after his posting as a Superintendent of Sabarmati Central Jail in September, 2003 cannot be treated as a step "reformatory" in nature. On the contrary, number of steps taken by respondent No. 3 as listed by the petitioners are contrary to the provisions of law and rules. On the contrary, some decisions are apparently look like a decision taken under some whims and as the petitioners were the beneficiaries of such illegal and unauthorised measures taken as per whims of respondent No. 3, they have taken up the cause of respondent No. 3 with a request to interfere with the order of transfer. Jail Superintendent is under obligation to perform various duties and functions which are prescribed and enumerated in Bombay Jail Manual (as applicable in the State of Gujarat) and it is not open to any Jail Superintendent to flout those statutory obligations. It is the say of respondent Nos. 1 and 2 that during the short tenure of approximately two months as Jail Superintendent, respondent No. 3 has observed the statutory functions more in breach than in compliance. Each liberal action has been taken by the petitioners as "jail reforms". The allegation of the State is that respondent No. 3 has done disservice to the jail discipline and safety. It is averred that during the past six months from the date of filing of the petition various Committees and important persons have visited the Sabarmati Jail and without any exception, all of them have expressed their satisfaction as to the conditions prevailing in the Sabarmati Central Jail and the State has heavily relied upon the Visitors' Register and the entries made therein for the last six months. It is submitted that during the period between December, 1996 and August, 2000 there were as many as six officers of I.P.S. rank were holding the post of Sabarmati Central Jail at different point of time. The steps taken by respondent No. 3 during his tenure as Superintendent of Sabarmati Central Jail cannot be termed as "reforms" but some of the steps are contrary to the established norms, statutory provisions and Rules. In Paragraph 11 of the reply-affidavit the respondent-State has attempted to demonstrate and prove that continuation of respondent No. 3 as Superintendent of Sabarmati Central Jail will not be conducive to the public interest in general and in order of discipline of such a big Jail. Total seven instances have been mentioned in the first reply-affidavit in Paragraph 11, which read as under: 11.03 It is submitted that in spite of there being a Jail Doctor and other para-medical staff at the Jail premises, the respondent No. 3, in his usual questionable style of functioning, has been habitually giving permission to the prisoners to go to the Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, without bothering to ascertaining whether such reference to Civil Hospital is necessary. Before the respondent No. 3 assumed the charge as the Superintendent in Sept. 2003, reference to Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad used to be only in the range of 25 to 30 prisoners per day. But during the stewardship of the respondent No. 3, the figure rose to 80 to 100 per day. Such an action on the part of the respondent No. 3 has caused serious hardship and inconvenience to the Local Police Authorities. Financially also, the aforesaid unwarranted reference to the Civil Hospital had led to the enormous avoidable expenditures. In these circumstances, when the Additional Police Commissioner, Ahmedabad City, by his letter dated 1-11-2003 requested the Inspector General of Prisons, to look into the matter, the said higher authority by his letter dated 11-11-2003 to the respondent No. 3 herein asked for an explanation from him in this behalf. A copy of the said letter dated 11-11-2003 issued by the Addl. D.G.P. and Inspector General of Prisons, Gujarat State, Ahmedabad, is annexed hereto and marked as Annexure-R/3. 11.04 As per relevant provisions in the Jail Manual as also in the statutes like Gujarat Prisoners (Diet for Prisoners) Rules, 1975, etc. food items are to be given to the inmates strictly in terms of the advice given by the Medical Officer appointed for this purpose. However, in the present case, the respondent No. 3 herein, in utter disregard of the said statutory provisions, has issued orders permitting the prisoners to take impermissible items from outside. In this context, copies of the orders issued by the respondent No. 3 are annexed hereto and marked as Annexure-R/4. 11.05. Even though, there is a statutory ban on the sale and consumption of items like tobacco, cigarettes, etc., in the jail premises, yet the respondent No. 3 has issued order permitting the sale of the so-called "Herbal" cigarettes in the premises. A copy of the said order is annexed hereto and marked as Annexure-R/5. By no stretch of imagination, the said measure on the part of the respondent No. 3 can be said to be a part of "jail reforms." 11.06 This is not all. Instances have come to the notice of the higher authorities that the respondent No. 3 herein under the guise of the permitting some inmates by virtue of their being the officer-bearers of the so-called Committee set up by him, has virtually allowed free access to these to the office of the respondent No. 3 and make use of phone. These persons not only enjoy outgoing telephone calls, but also invariably enjoy incoming telephone calls from their relatives and friends. This particular measure, I most respectfully say and submit, has a serious repercussion and impact on the discipline and order in the jail. 11.07 More seriously, the respondent No. 3 has the audacity of preventing the vehicles of the learned P.O.T.A. Judge and the learned Public Prosecutor from entering the jail premises under the guise of security. As a matter of fact, since long, the practice in Sabarmati Jail has been to allow the vehicles of such persons to enable them to park inside the premises. This itself is a testimony of "arrogancy" on the part of the respondent No. 3. It is submitted that the order of transfer which has been challenged by the petitioners has been implemented and this is not a case wherein any mandatory type of order can be passed on the wish or desire expressed by the petitioners, more especially when the petitioners have equally efficacious remedy of lodging their complaint to the Visiting Committee i.e. both official as well as non-official. According to the State, there is no cause for any grievance raised in the present petition nor there were complaints against other I.P.S. officers who were posted between the year 1996 and 2000, but the same are raised with an oblique motive to oblige respondent No. 3 to see that he is retained on the post of Superintendent and the jail inmates can continue to enjoy the facilities provided by respondent No. 3 in violation of statutory provisions and the agreed guidelines. It seems that the affidavit is drafted and submitted in the background of the obligation which State owe to the jail inmates of the other prisons of the State especially the big prisons like Junagadh, Rajkot, Baroda and Surat. 5. On 24th November, 2003 affidavit of respondent No. 3 came to be submitted by learned Senior Counsel Mr. J.R. Nanavati and the stand of respondent No. 3 is that he being conversant with the facts of the case, he has filed the affidavit only for the limited purpose mentioned in the affidavit. The affidavit runs into practically 38 pages. Mr. Nanavati has taken me through all the relevant parts clarifying the contingency placed before the Court by petitioners as well as respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and as has been explained by respondent No. 3. The stand taken by respondent No. 3 is of justification of his actions and.denial of all the allegations levelled in the reply-affidavit filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2. According to respondent No. 3 after joining as Superintendent of Central Jail, Sabarmati, he had studied carefully the provisions of Prisons Act , Bombay Jail Manual and Committee Rules for superintendence and management of jails. It is also claimed that he has studied some of the judicial pronouncements of the Apex Court concerning the rights of the prisoners and duties of the officers charged with the function of managing the prison and none of the actions was violative of any of the provisions, but on the contrary, they are in conformity with the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. In Paragraph 7 of the affidavit, he has tried to explain as to how a copy of the order of transfer endorsed to him was made available to the petitioners' Advocate. It would be proper to quote the relevant part of Paragraph 7 in view of the allegations made by learned G.P., Mr. Oza, that the petitioners have been wrongly posted before the Court, but in reality respondent No. 3 has attempted to challenge the action and order of his transfer. 7. ...I state and submit that on 18th November, 2003 my office had received a telephone call from the petitioner's Advocate who wanted to ascertain as to whether any order transferring me is passed as instructed to him on behalf of the petitioner as the petitioner's Advocate was instructed to move a petition. When the said telephone was received, I was on a special round of the Jail with the respondent No. 2 i.e. Special Inspector General (Prisons), and there I was not available on telephone. On returning to my office, I was informed about the aforesaid telephone, and subsequently, I had a telephonic talk with the petitioner's Advocate who requested me to be supplied with a copy of the order of my transfer. I had therefore, on a request from the petitioner's Advocate, faxed through the jail office a copy of the said order on the fax number given to me from the Central Jail itself which was faxed at around 12-00 hours. 6. It is further contended that the averments made in Paragraph 6 of the affidavit-in-reply need no comment, but according to respondent No. 3, the actions enumerated in the affidavit are in fact and in conformity with the law and in discharge of his duties. He has never played with the discipline nor with the safety of jail and there is no element of disservice to jail discipline in his actions. Relying on Rules 732 and 736, it is further contended that in compliance with the said statutory rules he had made it a point to personally visit each yard of Sabarmati Jail along with the official of the jail and when he found that most of the inmates had grievances with respect to their total or partial ignorance about the legal proceedings going on against them or on their behalf in various Courts, he found that a majority of the grievances could be redressed if basic legal assistance is offered on day-to-day basis, and therefore, only he constituted a Committee vide order dated 24th September, 2003 (page 33). He has attempted to submit that the legal assistance offered to the jail inmates by the members of Legal Aid Committee coming from This Court was found to be inadequate as the members appointed by the office order dated 24-9-2003 were asked to attend many problems of trivial nature like writing petitions to the competent Courts, letters to the lawyers, etc. These persons were selected from the jail inmates who were also Advocates. According to respondent No. 3, members of Kedi Panchayat who are elected members are from amongst the convicts and they were not in any manner competent or otherwise qualified to render any kind of legal assistance to the jail inmates. Therefore, it was his duty to find out a way as to whether there are any inmates in the Central Jail who were practising as lawyers, and therefore, they were entrusted a particular function. In support of this contention, respondent No. 3 has placed reliance on Rule 1415 of the Bombay Jail Manual, which reads as under: 7. It is clarified by respondent No. 3 in his affidavit that said three members were not permitted to have any access to any part of the jail and timings of meeting were fixed strictly and in conformity with Chapter XXII of the title "routine" under the Bombay Jail Manual. These diree members were asked to sit in the Welfare Office from 8-30 a.m. to 11-00 a.m., and from 3-00 p.m. to 5-30 p.m. During this period, all inmates are otherwise to be kept out of their barracks, and therefore, there was no question of giving extra freedom to these three members. It is claimed that he had also taken care in the said order itself that a person who wanted to visit said three members for legal assistance can only come under proper escort of yard or watchman and if found necessary with escort of sepoy or constable. The decision was an attempt to give basic minimum legal assistance to large number of jail inmates without giving extra freedom to said three under-trial Advocates. These three members were facing the charge of very serious nature and two of them are accused of Godhra incident. Respondent No. 3 clarified that the antecedents attached to all these prisoners and one of them was involved in serious economic offences is a matter of very little relevance. It is averred that all prisoners in jail are either convicts by competent Courts or are facing such serious charges who are not granted the bail by the competent Court. When all the prisoners in central prison are bound to have doubtful antecedents and are necessarily tainted with serious criminal charges, a Jail Superintendent is left with no other option but to select from amongst such persons. According to respondent No. 3, the constitution of Committee vide order dated 24th November, 2003 is an action, which, he thought to be his duty and it was discharged strictly in conformity with the provisions of Bombay Jail Manual. 8. The stand of justification is taken in Paragraph 11(1) of the affidavit in response to the allegations made in Paragraph 11(2) of reply-affidavit filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2. It is tried to be explained that the action was not initiated to favour some rich or influential people who were under-trials. It is averred that the action is neither illegal nor arbitrary. According to Mr. Bhatt, respondent No. 3, the Jail Manual provides for several reformatory measures in the prisoners undergoing sentences or awaiting the trial in jails and to redress the grievances or to attend to the issues like quality of food, medical assistance, legal assistance, sanitation, general hygienic conditions of jail and barracks, certain reformatory steps were required to be taken. The Kedi Panchayat, elected as per Rule 1226 of the Jail Manual is entitled to take part in the administration on such minor aspects at specified periodical intervals. Only four elected members to represent the interest of nearly 1700 convicts lodged in the Jail were found to be inadequate and almost equal number of under-trial prisoners were virtually unrepresented so far as their grievances and issues regarding basic amenities. All the four members of the Kedi Panchayat were representing only convict prisoners. Therefore, he took decision to constitute a Committee and decided that the persons who are in prison as detenus either under P.A.S.A. or under any other detention laws should not be made members of the Advisory Council but as there is no provision for representation of under-trial prisoners in Rule 1226, he decided to take assistance and services of the under-trial prisoners with a view to give them representation and to ensure that their educational qualification and skill can be utilised for the betterment of the living conditions in jail. According to respondent No. 3 all the members of the Advisory Council, constituted vide office order dated 1st October, 2003, are highly educated persons possessing degree and P.G. degree in the field of law, engineering and management, etc. By way of illustration, it is mentioned in the affidavit that one Arvind Banerjee and Maheep Pandey, who are at Serial Nos. 6 and 7 in the list of members of the Advisory Council are from Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and persons at Serial Nos. 1, 2 and 3 were practising lawyers before their arrest. It is clarified that this Advisory Council was not conferred any power except to administer jail administration and betterment of jail conditions with respect to basic amenities like food, sanitation, etc. and he did not find anything wrong in utilising the services of some of the highly educated and skilled persons awaiting trials and the only object was that of reformation. It is averred that as he had no choice, he had included four persons who are involved in very serious offence in the Council and it is stated on oath that no extra freedom was given to said 13 members of the Advisory Council as well as members of Kedi Panchayat as the time and place of the meeting is fixed and they were not otherwise entitled to meet. The stand taken in relevant Paragraph of the affidavit (page 56) is of justification and it is contended that there is no violation of any of the provisions either statutory or otherwise nor the said decision can be said to be arbitrary or illegal and it was a decision taken as a part of overall process of reforming the jail conditions by involving jail inmates for their betterment. It is also explained that number of persons being sent to civil hospital is not decided by him and it is not within his discretion, but it is an exclusive function of the Medical Officer appointed by the State Government. Referring to Rule 547 of the Bombay Jail Manual, he submitted that management of every jail hospital is under the control of Medical Officer who is subordinate to the Superintendent, except as regards medical treatment of the sick. It is submitted that Medical Officer shall have a free hand in medical treatment of the inmates of the hospital. By quoting Rule 548 and referring to other Rules i.e. Rules 149 to 155 and Rule 568 it is contended that the allegations made in reply-affidavit Paragraph 11(3) are incorrect. To appreciate the stand taken by respondent No. 3, I would like to reproduce exact contentions of respondent No. 3 in his affidavit-in-reply, which reads as under: 9. In support of the above stand, respondent No. 3 has quoted Rule 601 of the Bombay Police Manual, and according to him, he used to arrange for the escort for the inmates who had been taken to Civil Hospital for further treatment or investigation and if a Medical Officer finds more persons who are required to be treated only in the Civil Hospital, as Jail Superintendent, he cannot take risk with the health of the jail inmates and it was his duty to send them to the Civil Hospital based upon the medical opinion of the Jail Doctor. If an inmate is found unusually or excessively sick, then, he is sent to Civil Hospital and such situation was even intimated to Inspector General of Prisons through the Jail Superintendent. It is the perception of respondent No. 3 that if more inmates are advised by Medical Officer to be treated in Civil Hospital, it is the duty of the police to tackle such problem at Civil Hospital. When Jail Superintendent is supposed to arrange for transport of inmates who are advised for medical treatment by the Medical Officer at Civil Hospital, he has to seek assistance and help from the Police Commissionerate. The delay in arrival of the police escort at the Jail would not make the Jail Superintendent to be responsible for any mismanagement. On the contrary, referring to the letter written by him to Dr. Anil Chedha, Superintendent, Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, dated 17th September, 2003 it is submitted that there cannot be any object or motive attributable to him on issue of sending jail inmates for further treatment to the Civil Hospital, and it is denied that he had given permission to any prisoner to go to Civil Hospital and it is not the normal function of the Jail Superintendent to ascertain whether such reference is necessary as such decision is to be taken by the qualified doctor. It is also attempted to explain the contingencies brought on record by producing the letter dated 11th November, 2003 at Annexure-R/3 at page 35 that as he was asked to provide the details in tabular form for the preceding two years, he had instructed his subordinate to gather the information but before he could gather the information, the order of transfer dated 17th November, 2003 came to be passed. 10. With regard to the fact stated in sub-Paragraph 4 of Paragraph 11 of the reply-affidavit, it is explained by respondent No. 3 that the order passed by him on 9th October, 2003 is strictly in conformity with the provisions made in Jail Manual, whereby he had permitted the items specified in the order can be made available to the under-trials as they are entitled to same under different Rules contained in Jail Manual and the said items were inspected by the Jailor and only non-objectionable items were taken inside the prison after recording the items in the prescribed register. Quoting Section 31 of the Prisons Act and referring to Rule 1365 of the Jail Manual, it is submitted that when statutory provisions have conferred obligations on him as Jail Superintendent, it was his statutory duty to permit the jail inmates to have access to such items as part of their right to life under Article 21 of Constitution of India. With a view to justify the action taken while issuing the office order dated 9th October, 2003 the affidavit also deals with each of the eight items included in the list which were permitted to be supplied to the jail inmates and in order to support the said explanation, Rules Nos. 1365, 565, 606, 698, 1356, 1357, 1358 and 1360 of the Bombay Jail Manual have been relied. 11. In response to the averments made in said Paragraph (5) of Paragraph 11 of the affidavit-in-reply filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2 it is pointed out that there is no statutory ban provided in the Jail Manual for sale and consumption of items like tobacco and cigarettes, etc. in the jail premises. It is averred that as a matter of fact Rule 1365 statutorily provides that there shall be canteen run on self-supporting basis in every central jail stocking inter-alia tobacco in various forms and relevant part from page 11 of the Jail Manual has been quoted by respondent No. 3, which reads as under: 12. It is contended that after resumption of duty as Jail Superintendent, he categorically found that there was institutionalised corruption and there used to be rampant corruption of beedis, cigarettes and tobacco into the jail in connivance with the staff at various levels resulting into the position where one beedi used to cost up to Rs. 5 as reported to him by the jail inmates during his daily round, and therefore, he decided to introduce herbal cigarettes which were officially made available to the adult jail inmates in the jail canteen itself at the prescribed rate and it is the say of the respondent No. 3 that by providing herbal beedis and cigarettes. So far as allegation as to use of telephone facilities is concerned as made in Paragraph 11(6) of the reply-affidavit, respondent No. 3 has denied the contents of the said Paragraph and it is specifically stated as under: 13. With reference to contentions of Paragraph 11(7) of the affidavit-in-reply of respondent Nos. 1 and 2, it is stated that the question of permitting the vehicle inside the jail premises is already judicially adjudicated and concluded by the order of the learned Special Judge (P.O.T.A.), and therefore, the said issue should not have been raised. It is denied that he had ever prevented the vehicle of the learned Special Judge (P.O.T.A.) at any point of time. It is denied that he had exhibited any arrogance as averred in sub-paragraph (7) of Paragraph 11 or otherwise. Of course, the basic contention is that he is not desirous to join any issue with respondents on merits as to his transfer by the impugned order in the present petition is concerned. However, as there is elaborate reference as to his functioning in the affidavit-in-reply by respondent Nos. 1 and 2 as Superintendent, Sabarmati Central Jail, he has been put under obligation to place the facts, which according to his perception are relevant for the purpose of assisting the Court on the issues raised in the reply filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2. 14. After these three first basic affidavits, the petitioners moved a draft amendment on 16th December, 2003 and as the said amendment is allowed, an additional Paragraph is inserted in the relief clause whereby the petitioners have prayed for setting aside the order of posting of respondent No. 3 as Principal, State Reserve Police Training Centre, Chowky, Junagadh, as well as the decision taken by the State Government for filling up the post of Jail Superintendent, Sabarmati Central Jail, Ahmedabad, and it is further prayed that respondent Nos. 1 and 2 be directed to appoint respondent No. 3 as Jail Superintendent of Central Jail, Sabarmati, Ahmedabad. Therefore, the petition moved shall have to be decided in reference to the actual relief now prayed in exercise of the jurisdiction vested with the Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and mainly in the background of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and other judicial pronouncements of the Apex Court placed before This Court by the Learned Counsel for the parties. 15. On 6th December, 2003 respondent Nos. 1 and 2 submitted affidavit-in-sur-rejoinder dealing with the averments made by respondent No. 3 in his affidavit-in-reply with annexures and an attempt is made to falsify the stand taken by the petitioner as well as respondent No. 3. Referring to various documents including Annexure-R/4 colly, dated 21st November, 2003, it is submitted that major irregularities were noticed by the higher-ups of respondent No. 3 and the State Government. It is also necessary to refer to Paragraph 17 of the very affidavit, which deals with the documents produced with Annexure-R/5 colly. The said Paragraphs 14 and 17 read as under: It clearly indicates that, the new Committee formed at the behest of the respondent No. 3, comprising of 13 persons involved in Bank Scams, R.E.M.O./M.L.M. Scam, Godhra Carnage and such other serious offences have been permitted to supply additional raw material which were required to provide such sweetmeats and other items, to the Jail inmates. This would also cause undue hardship and prove to be a major hurdle, not only in the administration of the Jail, but also, to maintain control over the raw-material. The raw-material supplied at the behest of some of the inmates could be misused to cause large-scale damage to the health and safety of the inmates. 17. I say and submit that, the communication which have been addressed to the Superior Officers, also reflects that, the respondent No. 3 has shown scant regard for the Superior Officer and has tried to as per his own freewill, in spite of repeated instructions. I say that this also causes administrative difficulties. I say that this also would naturally, cause a lot of administrative difficulties. It would be appropriate to state, that scant regard for administrative instructions and flouting thereof, would in a given case, result in collapse of entire administration, if not controlled or repaired at the right stage. The said communication along with relevant record and proceeding of the notice reply and the order are annenxed hereto and marked as Annexure-R/5 colly. 16. On 15th December, 2003 an affidavit by way of rejoinder on behalf of respondent No. 3 has been submitted in which the stand taken by respondent No. 3 in his first affidavit has been elaborated and certain documents have been produced by respondent No. 3 in support of the contentions raised by respondent No. 3 in the said affidavit at pages 290 to 307. The affidavit of 15th December, 2003 can be said to be the third affidavit on behalf of respondent No. 3 as respondent No. 3 has attempted to clarify his stand by submitting sur-rejoinder-affidavit on 18-12-2003, which is at page 229 and the allegations made in Paragraph Nos. 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16 of the reply-affidavit filed by respondent No. 2 are dealt with by respondent No. 3. An additional affidavit was filed by respondent No. 2 dealing with the contents of affidavit dated 15-12-2003 of the respondent No. 3 which is at page 311. 17. The affidavit of the petitioners filed by way of rejoinder dated 28-11-2003 along with the annexures including the xerox copy of the paper-cuttings is on record, and it is submitted that the petitioners and other jail inmates of Sabarmati Central Prison had no direct access to outside world. Even then, the pitiable condition of the prison had seen the day-light and after several years, for the first time, the jail inmates were being treated as human beings and in a very short span of two months several rapid steps were taken to ensure that the jail inmates could live with human dignity. This affidavit deals with the contentions of the affidavit-in-reply of respondent Nos. 1 and 2 very strongly while resisting the petition on merits. It is, therefore, evident that the petitioners have put up their case in detail and on considering the stand taken by the parties carefully, the points raised and the issues emerging from the record are required to be dealt with in reference to the reliefs prayed by the petitioners. 18. I have heard the oral arguments of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Learned Counsel appearing for the petitioners, learned Senior Counsel Mr. J.R. Nanavati, appearing for respondent No. 3, who can be said to be a supporting respondent and Mr. A.D. Oza, learned Government Pleader, in detail. All of them have taken me through the various contentions raised in the affidavits referred to hereinabove and the documents produced by them. Some of the documents are produced by both the parties and they have attempted to interpret a particular document in reference to the stand taken by the concerned party in their affidavit. Some of the authorities cited and referred to by the Learned Counsel are also common. 19. Mr. Tushar Mehta and Mr. J.R. Nanavati have also referred to some of the portions from Chapters 14 to 21 of I Dare It - A Biography of Ms. Kiran Bedi", published by Parmesh Dangwal. On the other hand, Mr. Oza has referred to some other part of the very book in support of his submissions. To appreciate the rival contentions, I have gone through the relevant Chapters brought to the notice of This Court in reference to certain observations made by the Apex Court in case of Sunil Batra v. Delhi Administration , which deals with the practice of keeping the under-trials with the convicts in jail, etc., in the background of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 20. During the course of hearing, the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Nanavati has attempted to submit that jails in this country are practically neglected as institutions or are treated as a part of the Home Department even then, the respondent No. 3 had initiated the activities with caution and zeal both. In the same way, the cadre of Superintendent of any central prison is also considered to be very neglected cadre. Any attention is being paid very hardly in promotional growth and service conditions are also mediocre. It is referred to in the book mentioned hereinabove, that this situation creates tremendous frustration, low morale, exploitation and poor integrity. The transfers of jail staff in the State of Gujarat may be minimal, and therefore, the persons working in jail impliedly feel that they are also undergoing some type of imprisonment. But, according to the petitioners, after taking over the charge by respondent No. 3-Mr. Sanjeev Bhatt, they had never felt that he has been dubbed on the post and had started responding to the communications of the inmates and established a link between the prisoners and I. G. Prisons. Only with a view to brush aside the sense of mutual distrust, certain steps are taken by respondent No. 3 in the same way and manner as Mrs. Kiran Bedi was functioning with the inmates of Tihar Jail, Delhi, but the same was not appreciated by the State Government in proper perspective. The relevant Chapters of the book mainly deal with the personality of Mrs. Kiran Bedi and her methodology of working with the prisoners in the background of conditions of jail and various types of prisoners and duties handled by her in a very effective manner keeping their human rights and personal freedom as human beings in centre. From the affidavit-in-reply and rejoinder-affidavits filed by respondent No. 3-Mr. Bhatt, it is apparent that he has attempted to justify each action taken by him in the short period of two months including constitution of a Committee of 13 persons from the group of under-trials, acceptance of donations by way of certain articles, special food and sweets etc. on certain occasions by relaxing certain very well accepted and followed norms and even removal of iron mesh/net which was being kept between jail inmates and the visitors from both the sides. 21. It is stated specifically by the petitioners that the atmosphere had improved because of the special relaxation and facilities provided to the prisoners and the under-trials and there was no element of laxity or negligence in handling hardened criminals nor any special favour was shown to rich or well-educated under-trial prisoners. According to Mr. Mehta, increase in number of persons visiting civil hospital for medical assistance should be considered favourably and it is only because of paucity of police escort available, the genuine sick patients were not being sent to the civil hospital. Of course, it is relevant to note that there is no allegation in the affidavit-in-reply filed by respondent-State that any serious complaint was received from jail authorities or the police personnel who were taking the jail inmates to civil hospital regarding misbehaviour or malpractice against any of the inmates. But, it can be noticed from the affidavit filed by the petitioners as well as by respondent No. 3 that despite the improvement in hygienic conditions of the jail starting from quality of drinking water to proper quality and quantity of food, there is a rise in number of sick and ill persons day by day. The say of the State Government is that this number had increased and it is not on record as to how many persons, out of such sick persons sent to Civil Hospital for follow-up treatment, were immediately admitted in the hospital on the ground of inadequacy of treatment in jail. 22. It is rightly argued by Mr. Oza that each change or step taken by Mr. Bhatt as Superintendent cannot be viewed as a step towards reformation or as a step of reformation. Reform is a long process and sometimes the error in judging the internal atmosphere of a big jail like Sabarmati Central Jail may create serious problem for administration. Merely because no such eventuality had occurred, it cannot take This Court to a conclusion that an order of transfer was nothing but an arbitrary action which resulted into denial of prisoners' right flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution of India or it was a victimisation of a police officer who had not even in some cases cared to implement the suggestions of his senior. 23. The correspondence between the senior officer and respondent No. 3-Mr. Bhatt regarding filing of affidavit or making a statement in a proceeding being conducted by the learned Presiding Judge of the Court in the prison campus itself, against the accused against whom the orders under Section 268 of the Criminal Procedure Code have been passed by the State Government, clearly indicates that there is a hidden element either of absence of rapport or disharmony between these two very senior officials. It seems that respondent No. 3-Mr. Bhatt and the Presiding Judge of the P.O.T.A. Court had a small issue, may not be a prestige issue, regarding entry of a motor car and the vehicle of Special Public Prosecutor appointed by the State Government inside the prison where the Court room is actually located. I am not inclined to comment as to quality or the tenor of the language used in the correspondence as well as resistance placed before the Presiding Officer of the P.O.T.A. Court when an application was filed for appropriate orders by the learned Special Public Prosecutor. It emerges from the record that till the date of posting of Mr. Bhatt as a Superintendent of Central Jail after close scrutiny and check each vehicle taking the Presiding Officer as well as Special Public Prosecutor or C.B.I's. Special Public Prosecutor was permitted to enter into prison up to Court room in their respective vehicles. The Police Officers have privilege to express anger or displeasure because they are so trained. A Superintendent of a big jail intends to be strict on the point of entry of vehicles inside the jail premises, he can do so. But when the State Government has taken a stand that the transfer of the officer is a simple administrative action and the same is in the interest of administration, then, at least, the stand taken by respondent No. 3 can be looked into by the Court more particularly when the say of respondent No. 3-Mr. Bhatt is of justification on one hand and also to say simultaneously that "the chapter concluded by the judicial orders" on the other. In a prison like Sabarmati, non-rapport (sic.) and disharmony between Superintendent and the State or I. G. Prisons or any other superior can by itself is sufficient reason to pass any appropriate order. 24. Not a single document is produced either by the petitioners or the supporting respondent that certain constructive suggestions were made to the senior officials where such decisions and relaxations were under contemplation. It is not the say of the petitioners that the senior officials or the State Government have never ever responded to any of the constructive suggestion made for betterment of the jail inmates either made by them or Respondent No. 3. Mr. Nanavati and Mr. Mehta both have submitted that the endorsements found in the visitors book of Sabarmati Central Prison by the visitors and officials of the State Government or other V.I.Ps. should be ignored because such endorsements are made either mechanically or as a routine formality. 25. But, from the totality of the facts and circumstances emerging on record, it cannot be inferred that the atmosphere and the discipline of the jail was so strict, unhygeinic or indecent, and therefore, certain immediate measures and relaxations were required to be made as an extraordinary measure by the Superintendent even without consulting higher-ups and making relaxation in the accepted norms and practice which are otherwise being followed by all big prisons in the State of Gujarat. If Sabarmati Central Jail is to be given a different status of a model jail for introducing certain measures and relaxations making special deviations, then this could not have been done by an individual. It seems that the wish and will to do something better and the decision taken for the very purpose by a Superintendent has been considered by the petitioners as a special treatment and special relaxation and that by themselves have added an element of humanity or dignity. Presence of some strictness in the jail as prescribed by the Manual and law by itself cannot be said to be either inhuman or undignified of an individual human being. The Court is aware to the non-philosophy (sic.) of reformatory school and the attempts which have been made by the Courts including the Apex Court and the various Committees constituted for the purpose. 26. If the stand of the petitioners is scrutinised closely, then it would be difficult to conclude for This Court that the transfer of Superintendent Mr. Bhatt, taken by the State Government, has adversely affected the process of either betterment of jail condition or the reforms that are required to be introduced. A suggestion cannot be equated with a complaint. It may be that a fact placed by way of complaint may not be a grievance, but it may only be a suggestion placed in the form of a complaint, and sometimes, a suggestion also may indicate the grievance. It is not on record that any of the petitioners had ever made any suggestion or complaint as to the quality and quantity of the food in the near past prior to the date on which respondent No. 3 had taken over the charge as Superintendent of Central Jail, Sabarmati. 27. While resisting the petition respondent-State has tendered one statement in tabular form with a view to point out that as such no drastic measures which can be really said to be a reformative action were taken in light of constitutional right flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Approach of respondent No. 3 towards the petitioners was of different type, and it would not be justified to say that the petitioners were given unusual or unwarranted freedom. The State Government has mainly relied upon certain statutory provisions of Jail Manual and the Circulars issued by the Government i.e. by I. G. Prisons, Gujarat State, on 22-10-1969. Service of feast on occasions or during period of festival days should not be viewed as a serious irregularity, but the method adopted and the source utilised positively can be looked into, because ultimately, the State Government may be pressed by the prisoners of each jail, especially big jails, where the strength of the prisoners is comparatively high and where collective bargaining may develop. Some of the actions such as installation of tea vending machines in certain areas of Central Prison or introduction of herbal beedis in the canteen run within the premises of the jail and permitting some prisoners/under-trials to use telephone facilities etc. have been introduced, but all such decisions involve element of policy decisions. In the same way, the decision of respondent No. 3 deviating from the usual practice, to obstruct the entry of motor vehicles carrying the Presiding Judge of the Court trying the cases of under-trials whose movements have been restricted because of the orders passed under Section 268 of the Criminal Procedure Code and which was followed by the administration was also an act that can be said to be a decision involving a policy matter because till the date the new system was attempted to be introduced, such vehicles were taken inside the prison up to Court room after proper checking. The geographical distance between the Court room and the chhota-chakkar are where the hardened criminals are kept is more than reasonable. It emerges from the record that to boost the morale of under-trial prisoners they were permitted to use not only telephone but indirectly a fax machine of the office of respondent No. 3. It is said that only in case of necessity the prisoners were permitted to use such facility, but the said approach of Respondent No. 3, if found to be casual by the State Government and taken the decision of transferring the respondent No. 3-Mr. Sanjeev Bhatt, cannot be said to be a rational approach or an act of wisdom. The above-referred chart prepared on the basis of averments made in various affidavits filed by the parties provided to the Court is reproduced hereinbelow with a view to appreciate the stand taken by the petitioners in the background of the reliefs prayed by them: