provision will take place. Corporations and big conglomerates etc. might be CS Comm. No.454/2021 Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 14
 having several subordinate offices throughout the country. Interpretation
 otherwise would permit them to institute infringement proceedings at a far flung
 place and at unconnected place as compared to a place where plaintiff is
 carrying on their business, and at such place, cause of action too has arisen. In
 the instant cases, the principal place of business is, admittedly, in Mumbai and
 the cause of action has also arisen in Mumbai. Thus, the provisions of section 62 of the Copyright Act and section 134 of the Trade Marks Act cannot be
 interpreted in a manner so as to confer jurisdiction on the Delhi court in the
 aforesaid circumstances to entertain such suits. The Delhi court would have no
 territorial jurisdiction to entertain it. 24. The avoidance of counter mischief to the defendant is also necessary while
 giving the remedy to the plaintiff under the provisions in question. It was never
 visualised by the law makers that both the parties would be made to travel to a
 distant place in spite of the fact that the plaintiff has a remedy of suing at the
 place where the cause of action has arisen where he is having head
 office/carrying on business etc. The provisions of the Copyright Act and the
 Trade Marks Act provide for the authors/trade marks holders to sue at their
 ordinary residence or where they carry on their business. The said provisions of
 law never intended to be oppressive to the defendant. The Parliamentary Debate
 quoted above has to be understood in the manner that suit can be filed where the
 plaintiff ordinarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain.
 Discussion was to provide remedy to plaintiff at convenient place; he is not to
 travel away. Debate was not to enable plaintiff to take defendant to farther
 place, leaving behind his place of residence/business etc. The right to remedy
 given is not unbriddled and is subject to the prevention of abuse of the aforesaid
 provisions, as discussed above. Parliament never intended that the subject
 provisions to be abused by the plaintiff by instituting suit in wholly unconnected
 jurisdiction. In the instant cases, as the principal place of business is at Mumbai
 the cause of action is also at Mumbai but still the place for suing has been
 chosen at Delhi. There may be a case where plaintiff is carrying on the
 business at Mumbai and cause of action has arisen in Mumbai. Plaintiff is
 having branch offices at Kanyakumari and also at Port Blair, if interpretation
 suggested by appellants is acceptable, mischief may be caused by such plaintiff
 to drag a defendant to Port Blair or Kanyakumari. The provisions cannot be
 interpreted in the said manner devoid of the object of the Act." (emphasis supplied) 23.This Judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court is a Benchmark for deciding
 disputes qua territorial jurisdiction in IPR cases in India and was rightly
 followed by Single Bench of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case titled Ultra Home Construction Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Purushottam Chaubey and
 Ors. , 2015 Latest Caselaw 5143 Del decided on 20.07.2015. In the cited
 case the plaintiff company had Registered Office at Karkardooma, Delhi. The defendant was allegedly infringing its registered trademark
 "AMARPALI" by adopting a strikingly similar tradename "AMBAPALI
 GREEN" at Deogarh, Jharkhand wherein plaintiff was also running a CS Comm. No.454/2021 Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 15
 hotel in association with Ms. Clark under the name Amrapali Clark-Inn.
 In this case HMJ Valmiki Mehta, applied the ratio of Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of Indian Performing Rights Society Judgment (supra) returned the
 plaint for want of territorial jurisdication by concluding as under: 24.The above order of HMJ Valmiki Mehta was challenged by AMRAPALI
 GROUP in case title Ultra Home Construction Ltd. Vs. Purushottam
 Chaubey and Ors. 2016 Latest Caselaw 422 Del decided on 20.01.2016
 before the Division Bench of HMJs B. D. Ahmed and Sanjeev
 Sachdeva. The Division Bench, painstakingly discussed the interplay
 between Section 20 of CPC, Section 134 (2) of 1999 Act and Section 62
 (2) of 1957 Act, threadbare in the backdrop of Benchmark judgment of
 Indian Performing Rights Society (supra) of Hon'ble Supreme Court
 and ruled that even though the term "Carries on Business" is used in
 Section 162 (2) of 1999 Act and Section 62(2) of 1957 Act but no
 explanation is added in the above 2 statutes. The same phrase is used in Section 20 and by virtue of Indian Performing Rights Society (supra).
 The meaning assigned to "carry on business" qua a Corporation as
 contained in CPC shall be read for both Section 134 (2) of 1999 and Section 62 (2) of 1957 Act. Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 16 25.As referred to supra a Corporation can be said to "Carry on Business" at
 two places: 26.While elaborating the above principal in para 13 Hon'ble Division Bench
 observed: First of all, is the case where the plaintiff has a sole office. In such a case, even if the
 cause of action has arisen at a different place, the plaintiff can institute a suit at the place
 of the sole office. Next is the case where the plaintiff has a principal office at one place and a subordinate or
 branch office at another place and the cause of action has arisen at the place of the
 principal office. In such a case, the plaintiff may sue at the place of the principal office
 but cannot sue at the place of the subordinate office. The third case is where the plaintiff has a principal office at one place and the cause of
 action has arisen at the place where its subordinate office is located. In this eventuality,
 the plaintiff would be deemed to carry on business at the place of his subordinate office
 and not at the place of the principal office. Thus, the plaintiff could sue at the place of the
 subordinate office and cannot sue (under the scheme of the provisions of section 134(2) and 62(2) ) at the place of the principal office. The fourth case is where the cause of action neither arises at the place of the principal
 office nor at the place of the subordinate office but at some other place. In this case, the
 plaintiff would be deemed to carry on business at the place of its principal office and not at
 the place of the subordinate office. And, consequently, it could institute a suit at the place
 of its principal office but not at the place of its subordinate office.
 All these four cases are set out in the table below for greater clarity: 27.The above judgment of Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court was
 further assailed by AMRAPALI GROUP in case title Ultra Homes
 Construction Private Ltd. Vs. Purushotam Kumar Chaubey and
 Ors. SLP no. 7551 of 2016 decided on 08.04.2016, but the above order
 was affirmed by the Apex Court. 28.Now, the above ratio on territorial jurisdiction as elaborately dealt with
 and eruditely explained by the Division Bench by virtue of the above
 table and the ratio concluded shall be applied on the facts of the case in
 hand. 29.Before embarking on evaluation of the facts available on record which
 are supposed to be taken into consideration for deciding the preliminary
 issue. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff has relied on RSPL Ltd. Vs. Mukesh
 Sharma and Ors. 2016 Latest Caselaw 5056 Del dated 03.08.2016 to
 bring home a point that while taking a decision on an application under Order 11 Rule 7 CPC or an objection qua Territorial Jurisdiction, it is
 only the Plaint and its annexures which have to be looked into by way of
 a demurrer. The relevant paras are reproduced as under: Therefore, either way, this Court, in our view, would have jurisdiction to
 entertain the present suit. The observations and the findings of the learned
 Single Judge to the contrary, are wrong and are set aside. 30.On close scrutiny of the facts in RSPL case cited, it is found that while
 deciding the appeal against the Order of Single Bench of allowing the Order 7 Rule 10 CPC application the Division Bench has reproduced the
 relevant para for cause of action and territorial jurisdiction. It would be
 handy to read the same in contradistinction with the factual averments
 available in the plaint in hand. For the convenience sake, the RSPL case,
 the cause of action and territorial jurisdiction paras are reproduced
 hereunder: The plaintiffs further inquiry revealed that the defendants have very recently
 started the impugned activity under the impugned trade name. The
 defendants' user thereof (if any) utmost would be clandestine, surreptitious,
 sporadic restricted, minimal and very recent and all making it very difficult
 to detect and verify the precise nature of the defendants' activities. The
 defendant's impugned user, if any, is void-ab-initio. 31.On the other hand in case title Conzerv Systems Private Ltd. Vs. T K
 Babu (2008) Latest Caselaw 1399, Del, Hon'ble Delhi High Court while
 dealing with Order 7 Rule 11 CPC application in a trademark, copyright
 and passing off infringement suit wherein issue of territorial jurisdiction
 was involved observed:- Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 19 32.In ITC Ltd. Vs. Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal 1997 Latest
 Caselaw 869 SC Hon'ble Apex Court held,

 "Law cannot permit clever drafting which creates illusions of a cause of action.
 What is required is that a clear right must be made out in the plaint. If however,
 by clever drafting of the plaint, it has created the illusion of a cause of action, it
 should be nipped in the bud, so that bogus litigation will end at the earliest
 state. The Court must be vigilant against any camouflage or suppression, and
 determine whether the litigation is utterly vexatious, and an abuse of the process
 of the Court." (Emphasis Supplied) 33.In Azhar Hussain Vs. Rajiv Gandhi , 1986 Latest Caselaw 93 SC
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the whole purpose of conferment of
 powers under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC is to ensure that a litigation which is
 meaningless, and bound to prove abortive should not be permitted to
 waste judicial time of the Court, in the following words: 34.Coming to the facts of this case, as referred and reproduced supra, in para
 32, 53 and 54 of the plaint. Plain reading of para 32 of the plaint shows
 that it is a pleaded case of the plaintiff that defendant is engaged in the
 business of sale of eatables from his sole outlet at Muzzarfarpur, Bihar.
 Para 33 of the plaint is reproduced hereunder: 35.That plaintiff did carry out enquiry in the market to ascertain if the
 defendant is infringing the plaintiff's trademark but there is no reference
 that such an enquiry was carried out within the jurisdiction of this Court
 i.e. District Shahdara, Delhi. Rather on conjoint reading of para 32 and
 33, plaintiff is conveying that such enquiries would be carried out by the
 plainitff in Patna, Bihar outlet of the defendant. 36.Perusal of cause of action in para 53 of the plaint shows that it is referring
 to accrual of cause of action in September 2021 when as per text of this
 para plaintiff came across the impugned goods and services of the
 defendant. In so far as this whole para 53 does not refer to availability of
 such goods and services of defendant in District Shahdara when read in
 conjunction with para 32 and 33 of the plaint it is evident that such goods
 and services are of defendant are referred to as being available in Patna,
 Bihar. Plaintiff claims to have made some test purchasers qua
 infringement on the part of defendant but no such invoice was cited or
 filed before the Court either with the plaint or during the course of CS Comm. No.454/2021 Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 21
 hearing so as to show that such activities are taking place within
 jurisdiction of this Court. 37.It is in this backdrop that in the above jurisdiction para 54 of the plaint
 sub para (a) only talks about plaintiff's trademark and copyright. Sub-
 para (b) solely dealt with the fact that the plaintiff's merchandise are
 available in Shahdara markets through its dealers/distributors and that
 they are providing restaurant services in District Shahdara. Sub-para (c)
 only elaborates that plaintiff's merchandise are available on their in house
 website www.haldiram.com apart from third party vendors like Amazon,
 Big Basket and Flipkart etc. There is absolutely no para dedicated to any
 activity of the defendant which can be said to be an act of infringment of
 passing off. The combined reading of para 54 (a), 54 (b) and 54 (c) which
 only refer to plaintiff's activities in Shahdara are being cited as grounds
 for filing of the suit in hand against the defendant. 38.Comparing the above pleadings qua cause of action jurisdiction with the RSPL Judgment (supra) and it is found that the case in hand that there is
 no parity of the case in hand with that of the cited case in so far as in the
 RSPL Judgment in para 35 meant for cause of action and jurisdiction, as
 reproduced supra, there were categorical assertions that the plaintiff
 therein was served Caveat petitions by the defendant and that the
 enquiries carried out by the defendant revealed that the defendant has
 recently started clandestine, surreptitious, sporadic, restricted sales of the
 infringing material. None of the such-like allegations are present in the
 suit in hand. Rather there is an admission on the part of plaintiff that the
 defendants are carrying out business through his sole outlet at Patna,
 Bihar. Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 22 39.Furthermore, there is no allegation that defendant has any online presence
 either through their own interractive websites or through any third party
 grocery portal. 40.Moreover, the fact that even the LC which was got issued through Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court was taken all the way to Muzzarfarpur, Bihar
 and not to any place within the jurisdiction of this Court in Shahdara
 Delhi. Accordingly, following factual conclusions can be drawn out of
 plaint and the annexed documents. 41.Applying the ratio of IPRS Vs. Sanjay Dalia Judgment of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court as elucidated by Ultra Home Judgment Division Bench
 Judgment (supra) the table prepared by the Delhi High Court and the four
 cases cited therein show that the plaintiff is duly covered in third case in
 so far as while its principal office is in South Delhi but it is deemed to be
 carrying on business at Patna, Bihar where the cause of action also took
 place as per plaint and in such a case plaintiff could have validly filed the
 suit only at Patna. 42.Accordingly, this Court has no hesitation in concluding that the plaint and
 its annexures, when read cumulatively in the light of statutory provisions
 and the benchmark judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in IPRS and
 Ultra Home Construction Judgments (supra) show that plaintiff has
 failed satisfy the Court that Commercial Courts at Shahdara have
 territorial jurisdiction to try this suit. Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 23 43.Hon'ble Supreme Court has ruled that Court should be at guard against
 litigants engaged in clever drafting and creating illusions of cause of
 action by suppressing the material facts and camouflaging the pleadings. 44.In the light of the above settled legal proposition, when the plaintiff has
 the benefit of demurrer under the law, it is duty of the plaintiff to come
 clean on facts and elucidate the pleadings with necessary facts and
 particulars pertaining to cause of action and jurisdiction so that it leaves
 no room for ambiguity. While it is true that for the purpose of jurisdiction
 the contents of the plaint are to be believed on the face of it but it does
 not ipso facto mean that the bald unelaborated one liner plea "that this
 Court has territorial jurisdiction", which is bereft of any detail whatsoever
 shall be treated as sufficient to confer territorial jurisdiction. In the case in
 hand even this bald statement is absent and rather in para 32 and 33 it is
 admitted case of the plaintiff that the defendant is carrying on his
 business only a standalone single outlet that too in Patna, Bihar. 45.In the absence of any figment of material or evidence to show that any
 infringement of the said Trademark, Copyright or violation of any
 Passing Off Rights ever took place in Delhi this Preliminary Issue is
 decided against the plaintiff and in favour of defendant and this suit is
 returned. In terms of this order, interim orders passed are vacated and
 pending applications are deemed dismissed for want of Territorial
 Jurisdiction in this Court. 46.Lastly, it is argued by Ld. Counsel for plaintiff that upon issuance of
 notice of the suit while filing the WS in this matter defendant has also
 filed a counter claim and as such it should be treated that he has admitted
 the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. I see no strength in this plea in so
 far as conferment of territorial jurisdiction is not within the domain of
 either or both the litigating sides. Rather existence of territorial CS Comm. No.454/2021 Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 24
 jurisdiction has to borne out of the facts pleaded in the plaint and the
 documents annexed. Since as this is a case of clever drafting plaint is
 ordered to be returned under Order 7 Rule 10 CPC for want of territorial
 jurisdiction as per applicable rules. In so far as defendant has incurred
 expenses in defending the suit, plaintiff is directed to pay Rs.10,000/- to
 the defendant by way of cheque within 4 weeks and Rs.25,000/- to be
 deposited to Shahdara Bar Association by the plaintiff as cost. 47. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. (SURINDER S. RATHI)
 District Judge
 Commercial Court-03
 Shahdara District, KKD
 Delhi/23.01.2023. Haldiram India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Ritz Infratech Pvt. Ltd. page 25