- 1 The above Application has been filed by the original Respondent in 

 Election Petition No.16 of 2009, who is the elected candidate and whose election is 

 challenged in the above Election Petition, inter alia claiming the following reliefs :- 2 The Petitioner is a voter of the Sawantwadi Legislative Assembly 

 Constituency who has challenged the election of the Applicant/Respondent on the 

 
 following grounds :- The said grounds, according to the Petitioner, fall within the ambit of 
 
 Section 100(1)(d)(i) and (iv) of the Representation of People Act 1951 (for brevities 

 sake herein after referred to as "the said Act"). It is required to be noted that in so far as the aspect of criminal cases is 

 concerned, the Applicant/Respondent has filed a separate Application being 

 Application No.24 of 2010 for striking off the pleadings in the Election Petition 

 concerning the said aspect. The said Application No.24 of 2010 has been dealt with 

 separately. 3 The Applicant/Respondent has filed the above Application inter alia on 

 the ground that in terms of Order 6 Rule 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure , this ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 4 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 Court is empowered to direct striking off the pleadings at any stage which may be 

 
 unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous or vexatious or which tend to prejudice, 

 embarrass or delay the fair trial of the suit or which is otherwise an abuse of the 

 
 process of the Court. The Applicant has also invoked Section 86 of the said Act 

 under which this Court is empowered to dismiss an Election Petition which does not 

 
 comply with the requirements of Section 81 r/w Section 100(1) of the said Act. The 

 Applicant has also invoked Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure as, 

 
 according to him, the Election Petition filed does not disclose a cause of action. It is the case of the Applicant in the above Application that assuming for 
 
 the sake of arguments that the candidate in question has not disclosed his income or 

 disclosed income incorrectly, such non-disclosure of income or incorrect disclosure 
 

 of income can be an offence punishable under the Act but cannot be treated as 
 

 disqualification under Section 100 or corrupt practice under Section 123 and if that 

 be so, the Petitioner, who has relied upon the said ground in the present case, has no 

 cause of action to file the present Election Petition. It is further the case of the 

 Applicant in the above Application that the validity of an election can be challenged 

 only in terms of the statutory provisions and the fundamental right of a voter to 

 know the bio-data/credentials of the candidate is independent of the statutory rights 

 under the election law. It is the case of the Applicant that Sections 75 and 125A 

 provide that any false information which is given by the candidate can be an offence ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 5 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 punishable under the provisions of Section 125A but cannot be treated as 

 
 disqualification under Section 100 or corrupt practice under Section 123. Therefore, considering the said settled legal position, even if the averments made by 

 
 the Petitioner in Paragraph Nos.12 to 18 of the Election Petition are accepted as true, 

 the Election Petitioner on the said basis cannot seek a relief of setting aside the 

 
 election of the Applicant. The Applicant has, therefore, prayed for the reliefs which 

 have been reproduced herein in above. In the light of the above Application, it would be apposite to reproduce 

 Paragraphs 12 to 18 of the Election Petition. Para-12 The Petitioner states that as the Respondent has 
 not filed affidavit in prescribed form along with the 
 nomination form on or before 3 p.m. on the last date of filing 
 

 nomination i.e. 25th September, 2009, the returning officer 
 ought to have rejected the nomination of the Respondent 
 

 straight away without holding any further enquiry and 
 without any objections being raised by any candidates. The 
 directions given by the Election Commission of India dated 
 27th March 2003 are issued under Article 324 of the 

 Constitution of India. Therefore, they have a statutory force. 
 The Petitioner states that therefore, the nomination of the 
 Respondent is improperly accepted. (In any case, the 
 acceptance of the nomination of the Respondent is in 
 violation of section 33-A of the said Act r/w Rule 4A of the 
 Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 r/w directions given by the 

 election commission of India.) Therefore, the election of the 
 Respondent is liable to be set aside u/s. 100(1)(d)(i) and 
 100(1)(d)(iv) of the said Act. Para 13 - The Petitioner states that the Petitioner has cast 
 his vote in the election in question. However, before voting, ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 6 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 the Petitioner went to the office of the Sub Division Officer 
 i.e. the Returning Officer and saw the affidavit of the 

 
 Respondent displayed by the Sub Division Officer on the 
 notice board, which gave details about the criminal cases 
 pending against the Respondent and the movable, 

 
 immovable properties etc. of the Respondent. (After 
 perusing the said affidavit, the Petitioner and other voters of 
 the said constituency got an impression that no criminal 
 cases are pending against the Respondent. Thus, the 

 
 Respondent has secured highest votes by deliberately filing 
 two false affidavits. The election of the Respondent is also in 
 violation of the law laid down by Supreme Court.)

 Para 14 - Without prejudice to the Petitioner's contention 

 
 that the Respondent has not filed affidavit in the prescribed 
 form, the Petitioner states that the affidavit filed by the 
 
 Respondent purportedly disclosing movable, immovable 
 properties etc. also does not comply with Section 33-A of the 
 said Act r/w the said order dated 27th March 2003 for the 
 
 reasons set out hereinbelow. Para 15 - The Petitioner states that apart from the 
 aforesaid defects, the Respondent was also owner of two 
 properties on the date of filing of his nomination. However, 
 the Respondent has not disclosed the same in the affidavit 
 filed along with the nomination form. The details of which 
 are as under :- a. Land bearing survey No.101, Hissa No.1A, 
 admeasuring area bout 24 Acres out of the total area 
 under the said 7/12 extract situates at village 
 Talekarwadi, Post & Tal. Vengurla, Dist. Sindhudurg 
 under the Registration and Sub-Registration District ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 7 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 Sindhudurg. The said property has been acquired by 
 the Respondent vide an indenture of Sale Deed dated 

 
 22-05-2008 and the said Sale Deed has been 
 registered with the office of Assistant Registrar Class I, 
 Vengurla under serial No.350 of 2008 dated 

 
 22-05-2008. As per the said Sale Deed the 
 Respondent has paid total consideration of Rs. 80,00,000/- (Rs. Eighty Lacs only) to the Sellers. The 
 Petitioner has got the said information from the 

 
 Assistant Registrar, Vengurla, who has supplied the 
 certified copy of the Sale Deed and the Registration 
 Receipt. The certified copy of the said Sale Deed along 
 with Registration Receipt without annexures is 
 enclosed and marked as Exhibits E1 to E4 are the said 

 
 documents in Marathi and English translation thereof 
 respectively. b. The Petitioner further says and submits that in order 
 
 to establish that the said property is standing as of 
 today in the name of the Respondent, the Petitioner 
 has also obtained a 7/12 extract and Pher Far (i.e. 
 Extract of Form No.6) in respect of the said property 
 i.e. The Survey No.101 and Hissa No.1A/1, 
 

 admeasuring area about 24 Acres situates at Village 
 Talekarwadi, Tal Vengurla, Dist. Sindhudurg. Thus the 
 

 Respondent has suppressed the said property while 
 declaring his assets by way of sworn affidavit filed 
 before the Returning Officer. The certified copy of the 
 said 7/12 extract and the Pher Far are enclosed and 

 marked as Exhibit F1 to F4 in Marathi and English 
 translation thereof, respectively. c. The Petitioner states that, there is another property of 
 the Respondent, which has also not been declared by 
 the Respondent i.e. a property bearing Survey No.90, 

 Hissa No.1, admeasuring area bout 1 Acre and 13 
 Gunthas alongwith the dwelling house admeasuring 
 area about 32' X 24' = 768 sq. ft of carpet area 
 situates within Grampanchayat Waingani, Village 
 Talekarwadi, Post & Tal. Vengurla, Dist. Sindhudurg 
 under the Registration and Sub-Registration District ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 8 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 Sindhudurg. The said property has been acquired by 
 the Respondent vide an indenture of Sale Deed dated 

 
 07-11-2007 and the said Sale Deed has been 
 registered with the office of Assistant Registrar Class I, 
 Vengurla under Registration Serial No.684 of 2007 

 
 dated 07-11-2007. As per the said Sale Deed, the 
 Respondent has paid a total consideration Rs. 7,00,000/- (Rs. Seven Lac only) to the Sellers. The 
 Petitioner has got the said information from the 

 
 Assistant Registrar, Vengurla, who has supplied the 
 certified copy of the Sale Deed and the Registration 
 Receipt. The certified copy of the said Sale Deed 
 alongwith Registration Receipt with out annexures is 
 enclosed and marked as Exhibit G1 to G4 are the said 

 
 documents in Marathi and English translation thereof 
 respectively. d. The Petitioner further says and submits that, in order 
 
 to establish that the said property is standing as of 
 today in the name of the Respondent, the Petitioner 
 has also obtained a 7/12 extract and Pher Far (i.e. 
 extract of Form No.6) in respect of the said property 
 i.e. Survey No.90 and Hissa No.1 admeasuring area 
 

 about 1 Acre and 13 Gunthas alongwith the dwelling 
 house admeasuring area bout 32'x24'=768 sq.ft of 
 

 carpet area situates in Grampanchayat Waingani, 
 Village Talekarwadi, Post and Tal. Vengurla, Dist. 
 Sindhudurg. This property is also standing in the 
 name of the Respondent on the date of filing his 

 nomination. Thus, the Respondent has suppressed the 
 said property while declaring his assets by way of 
 sworn affidavit filed before the Returning Officer. The 
 certified copy of the said 7/12 extract and the Pher 
 Far are enclosed and marked as Exhibit H1 to H4 are 
 the said documents in Marathi and English translation 

 thereof respectively. e. The Petitioner says and submits that the Respondent 
 has also not disclosed the Government dues as per 
 Serial No.(a)(iii) and also Serial No.(b)(i)(ii)(iii) and (iv) at Page No.10 of the said affidavit. f. It is submitted that the affidavit having sworn by the 

 
 Respondent is incomplete as the material column in 
 respect of the income of spouse and the dependent 
 has been left blank. In fact, the wife is having 

 
 properties in Vengurla and Belgaun (Karnataka). Thus 
 it is a misinformation or disinformation caused on 
 account of disclosure made by the candidate on 
 affidavit. Para 16 - The Petitioner states that in view of the aforesaid 
 facts, it is clear that the election of respondent is liable to be 
 set aside u/s.100(1)(d)(i) r/w 100(1)(d)(iv) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 . Para 17 - The Petitioner states that as stated hereinabove 
 by filing separate and/or incomplete affidavits the 
 Respondent has suppressed material facts from the voter like 
 
 Petitioner. Such suppression and/or misinformation has 
 resulted in the Respondent securing more than 30,000 votes. 
 (The Petitioner states that voters of the said constituency are 
 mainly farmers, fishermen and small traders. The voters vote 
 for candidate against whom no criminal cases are pending 
 

 and who is honest in disclosing his true assets and liabilities. 
 The Respondent has filed affidavit in form No.26 by showing 
 

 that no criminal cases are pending against Respondent.) The 
 Respondent has also filed affidavit in prescribed form 
 without showing all the properties and without showing all 
 the liabilities. This has resulted in the Respondent getting the 

 majority of votes. Thus, the result of the respondent is 
 materially affected eut to the breaches of the Respondent 
 pointed out by the Petitioner hereinabove." Para 18 - The Petitioner states that the result of the 
 election in question was declared on 22nd October 2009. The 

 present election petition is filed within 45 days from the date 
 of declaration of the result. Therefore, the present petition is 
 filed within time" Thereafter the Election Commission issued a further order dated 

 
 17.01.2006 by virtue of which filing of affidavits by the last date and hour fixed for 

 filing of nomination papers was made permissible and the failure to submit the 

 
 affidavits by the aforesaid date and time would be considered as a defect of 
 
 substantial nature entailing rejection of the nomination paper at the time of scrutiny. This order was issued by the Election Commission following the judgment of the 
 
 Madras High Court dated 2-8-2005 in Election Petition Nos.1 and 2 of 2004. Hence, as can be seen from the orders issued by the Election 
 

 Commission, what was sought to be done by the order dated 17.1.2006 was to 

 permit the candidate to file affidavits in question by the last date and hour fixed for 

 filing of nomination paper. The purport of the earlier order dated 27.3.2003 that 

 the nomination could not be rejected on the ground of furnishing wrong information 

 or incomplete information or suppression of material information was kept intact. 6 As can be seen from the averments made in the aforesaid Paras 12 to 18 

 of the Election Petition, it is the case of the Petitioner that the Respondent has failed ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 12 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 to mention the properties owned by his wife as the said column, according to the 

 
 Petitioner, is kept blank. It is the case of the Petitioner that the wife of the 

 Respondent owns properties in Vengurla and Belgaum. It is also the case of the 

 
 Petitioner that the extent of the properties owned by the Respondent have not been 

 correctly disclosed as some properties have been left out by him. Though there is no 

 
 specific averment in the Petition as regards the column of income tax in the said 

 affidavit. The learned counsel for the Petitioner on the basis of the copy of the 

 
 affidavit which was produced by the learned counsel for the Applicant at the hearing 
 
 of the above Application, contended that the income tax paid by the Applicant has 

 also not be disclosed. The learned counsel also contended that the column regarding 
 
 government dues has also been kept blank. 7 Per contra, it is submitted by the learned senior counsel for the 
 

 Respondent that the Respondent had given details of the information sought by the 

 affidavit in the annexures to the said affidavit, however, in so far as the agricultural 

 properties owned by the Applicant/Respondent are concerned, the total value of the 

 said agricultural properties has been mentioned. It is fairly conceded by the learned 

 senior counsel for the Applicant/Respondent that the individual agricultural 

 properties have not been mentioned in the affidavit. In so far as the properties of the 

 wife of the Applicant/Respondent are concerned, it is the case of the Respondent 

 that the said column has not been kept blank but since the wife does not own any ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 13 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 property, the said column is crossed by "hyphen" thereby signifying that she does not 

 
 own any property. Similar is the case with the Government dues. In so far as income 

 tax is concerned, the learned senior counsel for the Applicant/Respondent submitted 

 
 that though the income tax paid in the preceding assessment year i.e. 2007-08 has 

 not been mentioned, the return filed for the previous assessment year i.e. 2006-07 

 
 has been mentioned, as also the PAN number has been given. In any event, 

 according to the learned senior counsel for the Applicant/Respondent, the said 

 
 lacuna, if any, in the affidavit is not a ground for disqualification which comes 
 
 within the ambit of Section 100 (1)(d)(i) or (iv) of the said Act. 8 I find merit in the submission of the learned senior counsel for the 

 Respondent that in so far as Section 100(1)(d)(i) is concerned, since the power to 
 

 reject the nomination form by the conduct of the summary inquiry by the Returning 
 

 Officer has been made unenforceable by the order of the Election Commission dated 

 27th March 2003, no ground under the said Section is made out. However, the 

 learned counsel Mr.Vashi appearing for the Petitioner contended that non 

 compliance of the order of the Election Commission would come within the ambit of 

 Section 100(1)(d)(iv) and since in the instant case, affidavit of the Respondent 

 suffers from the lacuna mentioned in the Petition, the Respondent has fallen foul of 

 the directions of the Election Commission and, therefore, the ground under Section 

 100(1)(d)(iv) has been made out by the Petitioner. The learned counsel Mr.Vashi ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:45 ::: 14 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 appearing for the Petitioner would contend that till the law is suitably amended, the 

 
 directions of the Election Commission as contained in the orders can be said to fill in 

 the gap in law. In so far as disqualification on account of non-compliance of the 

 
 orders of Election Commission are concerned, the learned counsel for the Petitioner 

 laid much store on a judgment of a learned Single Judge of this Court in Election 

 
 Petition No.10 of 2004 dated 16th August 2007 in the case of Shri Arun Dattatray 

 Sawant v/s. Shri Kisan Shankar Kathore. The efficacy of the order of the Election 

 
 Commission vis-a-vis the ground for setting aside the election under Section 100(1) (d)(iv) was in contention in the said Election Petition. The judgment in the said case 

 was rendered after a full trial. According to the learned counsel appearing for the 
 
 Petitioner, Paragraphs 35, 38 and 39 of the said Judgment are relevant in the 

 context of the challenge in the present Petition. The said paras are, therefore, 
 

 reproduced herein under :- Whereas, the right of the candidate to contest an election 

 
 is "only his statutory right". The candidate is obliged to fulfil 
 the constitutional aspirations of the voters and to uphold 
 the constitutional mandate of conduct of free and 
 fair election, to become eligible to contest the election. That is essential for the survival of democracy. Indeed, 
 by virtue of the revised directions and the later decision of 
 the Apex Court, the "Returning Officer" cannot reject the 
 nomination form at the scrutiny stage by resorting 
 to summary enquiry in respect of ground that the 

 
 information furnished in the affidavits filed along with the 
 nomination form is wrong or incomplete or amounts to 
 
 suppression of any material information by the candidate to 
 be a defect of substantial character. That does not mean that 
 the nomination of the candidate who has filed wrong or 
 
 incomplete information or suppressed any material 
 information in the affidavits accompanying the nomination 
 form, which is a defect of substantive character, in law, would 
 still be a properly accepted nomination. In a given case, the 
 candidate may succeed in hoodwinking the Returning Officer 
 

 by making a farce of having filed affidavits to comply 
 with the direction of the Election Commission. The fact that 
 

 the Returning Officer cannot go into the correctness of the 
 claim of wrong or incomplete information or suppression 
 of any material information in a summary manner, does not 
 mean that a case of improper acceptance of nomination 

 within the meaning of Section 100(1)(d)(i) of the 
 Act, becomes unavailable to such a situation Adjudication 
 on those matters are deferred, to be considered in an Election 
 Petition challenging the validity of the election of the 
 concerned candidate on that ground. In such a Petition, 
 the questions to be considered will be, whether there is 

 any defect in the affidavits of the candidate accompanying the 
 nomination paper and if so, whether the defect is of 
 substantive character resulting in misinformation and 
 disinformation caused to the voters. If the finding on those 
 issues were to be against the candidate, it will necessarily 
 follow that it was a case of improper acceptance of his ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 16 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 nomination. While considering those issues, it may give rise to 
 contentious issues. Those matters which are not descrimible 

 
 ex-facie and could be disclosed only upon an enquiry and 
 upon taking evidence on the relevant facts, will therefore 
 have to wait, to be decided by the Court in the Election 

 
 Petition while 
 considering the challenge to the election of the concerned 
 candidate on that ground. 38. A priori, the expression 'prescribed form' referred to in Section 33 of the Act of 1951 will have to be construed as an 
 inclusive term which would not only encompass the forms 
 prescribed in the Rules of 1961 (Forms 2A to 2E), but also 
 the affidavits to be filed by the candidate as per the law 

 
 declared by the Apex Court which is binding in terms of Article 141 of the Constitution, as also the directions issued by 
 
 the Election Commission in exercise of powers under Article 324. In the same manner, the expression "prescribed form" 19. In Paragraph 15, it is averred that the 
 
 Petitioner learnt that Respondent No.1 had 
 furnished incorrect information or had concealed the 
 material particulars, for which reason, the Petitioner 
 
 addressed letter to the appropriate authority to 
 ascertain the correctness of the information furnished 
 by the Respondent No.1. In response to that query, the 
 Petitioner has been informed that the Respondent No.1 
 was in arrears in the sum of Rs.9,196/- (Rupees Nine 
 

 Thousand One Hundred Ninety-six) payable to the 
 Sub-Divisional Officer, Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, 
 

 Deogad as on 19th October 2004. The Petitioner 
 thereafter filed complaint before the Election Officer and 
 the Election Officer has held that the Respondent No.1 
 was guilty of suppression of material facts and 

 therefore directed the Assistant District Election 
 Officer to register the offence as per law. It is then 
 mentioned that the said act of Respondent No.1 falls 
 squarely into the grounds for declaring the election to 
 be void under Section 100 of the Act. It is stated that if 
 the affidavit filed by the Respondent No.1 suffers from 

 any defect of substantial character, the nomination filed 
 by the Respondent No.1 is deemed to be defective and 
 the same should have been rejected. In substance, the 
 Petitioner alleges that the election of Respondent No.1 be 
 declared void and invalid on account of defective 
 nomination. In the first place, the question of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 26 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 improper acceptance of any nomination within the 
 meaning of Section 100(1)(d)(i) will arise only if the 

 
 candidate was not qualified to be chosen to fill that seat 
 under the provisions of the Constitution and the Act of 
 1951 or under the provisions of the Government of Union 

 
 Territories Act, 1963 , as is required by Section 32 read 
 with Section 33 of the Act. Be that as it may, it is not 
 necessary for me to go into the correctness of the stand 
 taken by the Petitioner whether the nomination was 

 
 defective and therefore resulted in improper acceptance 
 to be a ground for declaring election of Respondent No.1 
 void. For the present, what is to be noted is: whether 
 the Election Petition discloses all the relevant material 
 facts necessary to invoke the subject ground so as to 

 
 make out cause of action to proceed with the Petition? 
 As has been observed earlier, even in this Paragraph, 
 
 none of the relevant material facts have been stated to 
 the effect that the false affidavit was filed by the 
 Respondent No.1 with intent to be elected in the election 
 
 and had given false information which he knew or 
 had reason to believe to be false and further, that the 
 result of the election insofar as Respondent No.1 is 
 concerned being the returned candidate has been 
 materially affected by such defect in the affidavit. " 11 A reading of the said order discloses that, the Learned Single Judge has 
 
 relied upon PUCL 's case reported in AIR 2003 SC Page 2363 and has come to the 

 conclusion that non disclosure of income or incorrect disclosure of the income of the 
 
 candidate can be an offence punishable under the Act, but has not been treated as a 

 disqualification under Section 100 or a corrupt practice under Section 123. The 
 

 Learned Judge, therefore, concluded that even assuming the averments made in the 
 

 Petition are accepted as true, the Election Petitioner could not seek the relief of 

 setting aside of the election of the returned candidate. It is the submission of the 

 Learned Senior Counsel for the Applicant/Respondent that since the Learned Single 

 Judge in Election Petition No.10 of 2004 has not referred to the Judgment in 

 Pednekars case or the order in Chamber Summons No.1341 of 2005, the Judgment 

 in Election Petition No.10 of 2004 is per incuriam. 12 It is also contended on behalf of the Petitioner whilst opposing the 

 
 above application for dismissal of the Petition, that the issue whether the right to be 

 informed which is a concomittant of the right to vote, is a fundamental right or not, 

 
 is referred to a larger bench of the Apex Court by a Judgment of a two Judge Bench 

 of the Apex Court in Writ Petition No.161 of 2004. The Learned Counsel for the 

 
 Petitioner also pointed out that the challenge to the Judgment of the Learned Single 

 Judge in Election Petition No.10 of 2004 is also referred to a larger bench of the 

 
 Apex Court, and, therefore, this Court should proceed on the basis of the law 
 
 enunciated by the Learned Single Judge in Election Petition No.10 of 2004. Per contra, it is the submission of the Learned Senior Counsel for the 

 Applicant/Respondent that though the issue is referred to a larger Bench, the law 
 

 laid down by the Apex Court in PUCL 's case and Association for Democratic Reforms 
 

 still holds the field. In the context of the said submissions, it would be apposite to 

 reproduce the defining paragraph in PUCL 's case which is paragraph 81(d). (Emphasis supplied) 

 
 It would be also apposite to refer to the Judgment in Writ Petition (civil) 
 
 No.161 of 2004 of the Apex Court. The said Writ Petition was filed by the People's 

 Union for Civil Liberties seeking to add another dimension to the sovereign right to 
 
 express his choice for the candidate at an election by contending that the right to 

 vote in secrecy includes the right of negative vote. It was prayed that Rules 41(2) 
 

 and 49-O of the Rules be struck down and that directions be issued to the 
 

 Commission to make appropriate provisions in the ballot papers and electronic 

 voting machines, so as to enable the voters to exercise their right of negative voting 

 and also ensure that exercise of this right is kept secret. The Judgment in Union of 

 India Vs. Association for Democratic Reforms reported in (2002) 5 SCC 294 

 and in the case of PUCL Vs. Union of India and ors reported in AIR 2003 SC 2363 

 were relied upon by the Petitioner therein in support of its contention that in PUCL (supra), the Apex Court by a majority view has held that right to vote is a 

 constitutional right beside that it is also a facet of fundamental right under Article ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 31 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The Judgment in Kuldip Nayar Vs Union of India was 

 
 also pressed into service by the Petitioner and paragraphs 361, 362, 363 and 364 of 

 the said Judgment were relied upon in support of its contention which are 

 
 reproduced hereinunder: The two Judge Bench of the Apex Court thereafter in paragraph 20 of 

 the said Judgment concluded as under: (Emphasis supplied)

 The two Judge Bench of the Apex Court has, therefore, in terms observed 

 that the Constitution bench in Kuldip Nayar 's case has not overruled or discarded the 

 ratio of the two-three Judges Bench Judgment in Union Of India Vs. Association for Democratic Reforms and PUCL Vs. Union of India . However, since the opening line 

 of paragraph 362 creates a doubt whether the right of voter to exercise his choice for ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 33 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 the candidate is a necessary concomitant of the voters of freedom of expression 

 
 guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and since that issue according 

 to the Apex Court required a clear exposition as also the power of the commission 

 
 under Article 324 , needed further consideration by a larger bench, the said issues 

 were referred to a larger bench by the two Judge bench of the Apex Court, therefore, 

 
 by the Judgment in Writ Petition No.161 of 2004, the Apex Court has in terms 

 explained that the Constitution Bench in Kuldip Nayar 's case has not overruled or 

 
 discarded the ratio of the two-three Judges Bench Judgments in Association for Democratic Reforms (supra) and PUCL (supra). Therefore, in so far as this Court is 

 concerned, the law laid down by the two-three Judges Bench of the Apex Court in 
 
 the said two Judgments still governs the field, namely that the validity of an election 

 of a particular candidate would depend on statutory provisions and that the 
 

 fundamental right of a voter is independent of the statutory rights under the Election 
 

 Law. In the light of the law laid down by the Apex Court in the aforesaid two 

 Judgments, I deem it appropriate to decide the above application on the touch stone 

 of the said two Judgments of the Apex Court and resultantly non compliance of the 

 directions of the Election Commission would not come within the mischief of Section 

 100(1)(d)(iv) of the said Act. I find considerable merit in the submissions of the 

 Learned Senior Counsel for the Applicant/Respondent that this Court whilst trying 

 the Election Petition is akin to a Tribunal of limited jurisdiction and, therefore, the 

 issues which are out of the purview of the grounds available in Section 100 cannot ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 34 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 be entertained. In my view, considering the statutory regime under which the 

 
 Election Petition is to be tried, the dispute as regards title to the properties etc., 

 cannot be gone into at the trial of the Election Petition. The Election Petition would 

 
 have to be confined to the grounds which are available under Section 100 of the said 

 Act and the scope of the Election Petition cannot be enlarged unless there is an 

 
 amendment in the legislation to that effect. 13 In so far as, the lacuna in the affidavit of the Applicant are concerned, 
 
 the Applicant/Respondent has fairly conceded the fact that the 

 Applicant/Respondent has not mentioned the details of his individual agricultural 
 
 properties but has however, given the total value of the said properties in the 

 annexture to the affidavit. It is contended by the Learned Senior Counsel appearing 
 

 for the Applicant/Respondent that since his wife does not own any property, the 
 

 column has been filled by putting "hyphen" in the column in respect of the properties 

 of the wife. In so far as the Income Tax Returns are concerned, the return filed for 

 the year 2006-07 which was the previous assessment year was mentioned, as also 

 the PAN number was given, however, he fairly conceded that the tax paid for the 

 assessment year 2007-08 was not mentioned. It is well settled that the affidavits in 

 which the assets etc. are to be disclosed, have been made a condition pursuant to the 

 directions issued by the Apex Court in the Association for Democratic Reforms case 

 (supra). The object being to disseminate information about the candidate to the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 ::: 35 Application No.26/10 in EP No.16/09 voters. The said affidavits, I am informed, are also put up on notice board much in 

 
 advance and are also on the official website. If the Petitioner was aggrieved by the 

 non disclosure of the information by the Applicant/Respondent, the Petitioner could 

 
 have filed an affidavit before the returning officer disclosing the details of the 

 properties owned by the wife of the Applicant/Respondent or could have brought to 

 
 the notice of the voters any wrong or incomplete information given by the 

 Applicant/Respondent. It is significant to note that the Petitioner has not till the 

 
 filing of the above Petition taken any exception to the information furnished by the 
 
 Respondent in the affidavits. As indicated herein above the Petition is bereft of any 

 material particulars. Now an excuse is sought to be given for the inaction by 
 
 questioning as to whether the information is on the official website and whether the 

 Petitioner could have taken objection to the information furnished by the 
 

 Applicant/Respondent in the said affidavits. In my view, in the absence of any 
 

 statutory backing that furnishing of false or incorrect information or suppressing 

 information would amount to a disqualification as contemplated in Section 100(1) (d)(i), even assuming that what has been stated by the Petitioner is accepted as true, 

 the same would not entail the disqualification of the Applicant/Respondent. The 

 grounds mentioned in paragraphs 12 to 18, therefore, do not spell out a cause of 

 action for setting aside the election of the Respondent. In my view, since the 

 Applicant/Respondent has mentioned the total worth of his agricultural properties 

 which would be one of the material aspect with which a voter would be concerned. Therefore assuming that there are any lacunae/infirmities in the affidavit, the same 

 
 cannot be said to be of a substantial nature so as to unseat a returned candidate. 14 The above Application is therefore required to be allowed and is 

 accordingly allowed. Resultantly, the pleadings in Paragraphs Nos.12 to 18 are liable 

 
 to be struck off and the above Election Petition is required to be dismissed and is 

 accordingly dismissed. No order as to costs. (R.M.SAVANT, J) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:51:46 :::