Recommended Reading

Dinamalar Appoints S Balasubramanian

Dinamalar.com has appointed S Balasubramanian as Head of Marketing, New Media. Prior to Dinamalar, he was Sr. VP, Ad Sales at Galatta.com .

ISPAI Plea For Internet Telephony

Internet Service Providers Association of India ( ISPAI ) will put forward a plea to The Competition Commission of India (CCI) to hasten approval of VoIP over landlines in India. ISPAI has moved the panel because of the government’s delay to the recommendations of TRAI that ISPs should be allowed to use telephone lines to make internet telephony calls. At present the government does not allow internet telephony calls to terminate on phone lines. (Read more at Business Standard )

Cleartrip Announces Instant Cash Back Offer Online travel portal Cleartrip has announced an instant cash back offer for its customers with bookings done with HDFC Credit Card. 50 percent cash back on the base fare of few domestic flights and 10 percent for a rail ticket booking. The offer is valid from 10th February to March 2010.

National Do Not Call Registry Not Working

J.S Sharma, Chairman, TRAI has told Mint that the response to the National Do Not Call registry has been far from satisfactory. Only 50-60 million out of the total 562 million mobile phone subscribers have opted for the Do Not Disturb service so far and the service itself has a success rate of 60 percent only. The service also fails to keep out unwanted SMSs.

Pacnet India To Expand Beyond ISP

Telecommunications service provider Pacnet through Pacnet India has obtained National Long Distance and International Long Distance licenses from DoT . Pacnet India will now offer International Private Line, Ethernet International Private Line services alongwith domestic and international IP VPN. Pacnet India already works as a Internet Service Provider in India. (Read more at TMCNET.com )

WatchIndia.tv Launches Set-Top Box For IPTV Service; No PC Required

WatchIndia.tv has launched a TV set-top box for live Indian channels targeted at NRIs. The set-top box connects at one end to a broadband router and the other end to a television set. Users can watch Indian channels directly on the TV rather than a PC.

R Chandrasekhar Leaves Airtel

R Chandrasekhar, brand and media head at Bharti Airtel has resigned from the company. He is most likely to join Reliance Mobile in a marketing role. Chandrasekhar has denied any such development. He has been with Airtel for three years and has also worked for Britannia and Marico. (Read more at afaqs! )

IVCA Asks Finance Ministry To Expand Tax Exemption Across Sectors

The Indian Venture Capital Association (IVCA) has asked the Finance Ministry to extend tax exemptions via tax pass-through to more sectors in the upcoming budget. At present the benefit is allowed in only 9 sectors. (Read more at The Economic Times )

Unique Identification Number Project

Nandan Nilekani, Chairman, UID Project, has requested the IT industry to allow its professionals to volutarily help in the project. Around 30 IT professionals are expected to assist in the project. Over the next 5 years 600 million Ids are expected to be issued. (Read more at Business Standard )

e-Governance Services To Be Cloud Based

The government and Nasscom are discussing on how to roll out e-governance services using cloud-based IT services. The cloud based e-governance services can allow the roll out of 90 percent of citizen services yet to be implemented. (Read more at The Economic Times )

Bharti Airtel To Clear Warid’s Debt

Bharti Airtel will clear Warid Telecom’s debts of Tk 231 crore to local financial institutions as part of its investment plan. Bharti Airtel had acquired 70 percent in Warid Telecom , Bangladesh in January. (Read more at The Daily Star )

Exchange4Media Group To Launch Hindi News Website

Exchange4media group has said that it will be launching a Hinidi news website, samachar4media for Indian media, advertising and marketing idnustry. The portal is planned  to be launched mid January 2010. (Read more at oneindia )

Google Transliteration IME With 14 Languages

Google has launched Google Transliteration IME (Input Method Editor) with which users can type a word the way it sounds using Latin characters and the IME will convert the word into the script of any one of the 14 languages currently available. The application is free and there is no sign up required. The 14 languages are Arabic, Bengali, Farsi (Persian), Greek, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Nepali, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. (Read more at Google India Blog )

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event