By Nikhil Cariappa

Snapdeal has launched ‘ Brand Shield ’ where companies can report counterfeit products being sold on its platform. Snapdeal claims that it will take down any “listing that infringes third party IP rights within 1 working day after being assured that – – Ownership of the intellectual Property has been established. – The infringer has been identified through proof of purchase or any other document. – The claim of infringement is based on objective and reasonable basis.”

It will also delist products in 1 working day on the direction of orders passed by courts and other authorities, it said. Sellers can report violations of trademarks, copyrights, patents, or concerns related to design. At this stage, this seems to be restricted to only sellers and companies, and not users.

Companies must establish their ownership of intellectual property with relevant documents and state their claim of infringement

Every complaint is verified by a separate team at Snapdeal, and if found genuine, the counterfeit product will be taken off the platform in one business day

Snapdeal said that it launched this after receiving inputs from brand owners. Snapdeal prohibits the sale of counterfeit products on its marketplace and sellers can be penalized for violations.

In August, the Delhi High Court ordered Amazon to delist sellers selling counterfeit products under the Beverly Hills Polo Club brand. One of the sellers of Polo Club was ‘Cloudtail’, which is a joint venture between Amazon and N.R. Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran ventures

In July, we reported that the number of consumer complaints against e-commerce companies in India had risen by 42% with 78,088 complaints between April 2017–March 2018.

In the same month, Flipkart was sued by vendor MarcoWagon Retail (MRPL) over unpaid dues amounting to Rs 20 crore. Flipkart filed a counter-suit against MRPL and accused it of forgery, cheating, fraud and breach of trust.

In March, the government was considering a cash back system to customers who unknowingly purchased counterfeit products online.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event