?If There’s One Story To Read Today

The internet, despite all the benefits it has brought to society, has many shortcomings. There’s rampant misinformation, echo-chambers of hate speech, marketplaces for illegal goods and services, to name a few.

But if there’s one issue that gets everyone’s attention more than the others, and one issue that everyone wants to unanimously fight against, it’s the issue of non-consensual sexual content. And when it involves minors, the effort to curb such content is multiplied.

Thanks to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), online platforms can now adopt a new tool to help take down such content based on what affected users themselves report. The good news is that Meta, PornHub, and OnlyFans have already adopted this tool. Now all that’s left is for other platforms to do the same, and for them to increase awareness that such a tool exists.

In our report we cover what this tool is, how it works, how affected children can use it, and more. Read this 2-minute story here .

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

FTC doesn’t mince words when it’s AI: Taking note of the AI buzz, the United States’ Federal Trade Commission is closely monitoring the businesses launching new-age AI products. Uncertainty seeps in as companies start making wider claims of using automated tech for services. How true are these ads and pitches? FTC warns companies to keep their answers ready. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

GACs on the verge of a debut: A new platform to process user complaints to the GACs went live on February 28, 2023. We are on the cusp of a new era of government censorship as seen in the case of the censor board or Section 69A. It remains to be seen how these committees operate but the writing’s on the wall. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

Internet shutdowns resume: Rajasthan and Haryana kick off 2023 with the first internet suspensions of the year to prevent cheating, and maintain public order respectively. Rajasthan’s internet suspension is already extended by over a day, raising questions as to whether residents must do without the internet until the end of exams. The Standing Committee looking into the matter has asked the government to maintain a record of such actions, but why won’t the Indian government listen? [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

Avengers, Assemble! Elon Musk has approached several artificial intelligence researchers in recent weeks to form a new lab which will work on developing an alternative to ChatGPT. Musk has long been vocal about his concerns regarding the potential risks associated with artificial intelligence, and it appears he is taking matters into his own hands. Personally, I’d love to see which chatbot has better jokes. [ Read , 2 minutes ]

Cryptoverse: Bitcoin moves towards Satoshi’s payment dream [ Read ] (Medha Singh and Lisa Pauline Mattacka/Reuters)

Meta’s AI-driven advertising system splits marketers [ Read ] (Hannah Murphy and Cristina Criddle/Financial Times)

Snapchat launches an AI chatbot powered by OpenAI’s GPT technology [ Read ] (Aisha Malik/TechCrunch)

Canada Follows U.S., Europe With TikTok Ban on Government Devices [ Read ] (By Paul Vieira/The Wall Street Journal)

Exclusive: White House sets deadline for purging TikTok from federal devices [ Read ] (David Shepardson/Reuters)

LinkedIn scammers step up sophistication of online attacks [ Read ] (Ian Johnston/Financial Times)

Meta says it is experimenting with AI-powered chat on WhatsApp and Messenger [ Read ] (Ivan Mehta/TechCrunch)

Goldman’s Digital-Asset Team Open to Hiring as it Rolls Out Blockchain Platform [ Read ] (Kiuyan Wong)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event