SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Jio GigaFiber employees scamming the Trail users?
DATE: 2019-12-09
SCORE: 56
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/e859a9/jio_gigafiber_employees_scamming_the_trail_users/

--- POST TEXT ---

Edit: In the title I made a typo-Its Trial and not trail. 
--------
A question to the users who are on the Trial offer of Jio GigaFiber:
Are you being asked by JioFiber to move to the paid service one? If yes, what was the mode of communication? And how much time did they give you to decide?

Asking this because yesterday two guys from Jio came to our house asking to move to paid service. We are on trail offer since a year or so.

They asked 2500 as the charges for new OTT Box or whatever they call it, plus the first month prepaid fee of your preferred plan. When I told him that we had already paid 4500 last year as security deposit and this new box' fees should be set off from that amount. They told me it's not possible to do this, but I will receive 4500 as refund after two weeks or so.

I thought this must be the norm so I agreed and they proceeded with the formalities. Then they asked me for my alternate number which I promptly gave. They asked for OTP from me and left saying the installation will happen tomorrow.

Later in the night I thought about their procedure and something didn't feel right to me and I called the customer care from my primary number (the one registered in the Trial offer) and the executive told me that there is no installation request from your number. It was then that I noticed the OTP for the installation had came on my alternate number! Then I understood this scam.

So basically what those genius guys from Jio did- they, without telling me truly, took a new connection request from me altogether from my alternate number, which is obviously a paid one this time, instead of getting me migrated from the trial one.

And once my new service would have started, they would have asked me to file a cancellation request from the other number from which my Trial is registered.
What a fabulous way to achieve your new connection targets!

So guys, who are on trial period, be careful how they approach you.