The petitioner is before this Court seeking a direction to the

Registry of this Court to remove the name of the petitioner from the

digital records maintained in Criminal Petition No.8172 of 2021 and

not to reflect the name of the petitioner in relation to Criminal

Petition No.8172 of 2021. 2. Heard Smt. Abhinaya K, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner, Smt. B.V. Vidyulatha, learned counsel appearing for

respondent No.1 and Sri. Kiran Kumar, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for respondent No.2. 3. Sans details, facts in brief, are as follows:- 4. The Police conduct a detailed investigation and file a 'B'

report observing that it was a false case registered against the

petitioner. By then, the petitioner had filed Criminal Petition

No.8172 of 2021 before this Court. In view of filing of the 'B' 5 report, this Court disposed the petition in terms of its order dated

02-02-2022. After the said order being passed by this Court, the

concerned Court, after hearing the parties, accepted the 'B' report

and discharged the accused i.e., the petitioner. 5. The issue in the lis does not concern merit of the crime.

The petitioner is knocking at the doors of this Court, on the ground

that when the name of the petitioner is clicked on any search

engine, it reveals him to be an accused in the aforesaid crime and

petitioner in Criminal Petition No.8172 of 2021. It is, therefore, the

petitioner seeks masking of his name in the digital records of this

Court. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would

vehemently contend that the 'B' report depicts that it was a false

case, as the daughter of the complainant and the petitioner were

close friends and they had exchanged several messages. It was not

one sided, but the daughter had also exchanged messages.

Therefore, the Police after investigation filed a 'B' report, stating it

to be a false case and the complainant did not contest the 'B' 6 report. Thereafter, the concerned Court also closes the case

accepting the 'B' report and discharges the petitioner. She would

submit that the digital records still show him as an accused. On

account of the name being displayed in the website of the High

Court, he is not getting any job and his brothers also are not

getting any job, as the moment search is done, it would show that

the petitioner was an accused. Explanation that he is discharged

comes about later. But, by then all his job offers vanish. She would

contend, that if the charge sheet had been filed or there was

conviction, it would have been a different circumstance. The

petitioner is now left without any blame. The digital records depict

him to be an accused, which has placed him worse than being an

accused. She would submit that every human being is entitled to

live with dignity. Therefore, she seeks that the name of the

petitioner should be masked in the records of this Court. 7. The learned counsel representing the High Court would

vehemently refute the submissions to contend that masking of the

name is permissible only of the victim and not the accused. Merely

because he is discharged on accepting the 'B' report or an accused 7 gets acquitted, would not mean that his name should not figure as

an accused. It is her submission that the deeds committed by the

accused will always follow him. Therefore, the request of the

petitioner should not be acceded to and merely because his name

figures it cannot be said that the petitioner is put to any prejudice.

She would seek dismissal of the petition. 8. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 9. The afore-narrated facts are not in dispute. The petitioner

is alleged of exchanging lewd messages with the daughter of the

complainant. Therefore, the crime comes to be registered in Crime

No.105 of 2021. The police conduct investigation and in the detailed

final report would opine that it was a false case and, therefore, 'B'

report is filed. The concerned Court accepts the 'B' report and

closes the proceedings against the petitioner by discharging him of

the allegations. The situation is that the petitioner who was once an

accused becomes blame free today. The charge sheet itself was 8 not filed against him, as the investigation led to filing of 'B' report.

The 'B' report, even after it being notified to the complainant was

not contested and, therefore, the petitioner was discharged on

acceptance of 'B' report resulting in closure of the case. In those

circumstances, the name of the petitioner being dubbed as an

accused even after the aforesaid circumstance, undoubtedly leads

to grave prejudice to the petitioner. He is on a higher pedestal than

any of the accused who would get acquitted after a full blown trial.

The petitioner, at the threshold itself, is declared to be innocent.

The issue is whether the name of the petitioner-accused should be

masked in the digital records of this Court. She would submit that

the other respondents have already yielded to the request of the

petitioner and have masked the name of the petitioner in their

records. What remains is only the masking of the name in the

digital records of this Court. 10. The law in this regard cannot be termed to be static, but

dynamic. Dynamic, I deem it necessary to observe, as it should

evolve like evolution of the Constitution of India, which is a dynamic

document. A facet of Article 21 of the Constitution of India is that 9 every citizen in the country should have a life with dignity; the

dignity does get trampled on account of various acts of a citizen.

Those acts are punishable after a due process of law. If the result of

due process of law is absolving of any person of alleged guilt, those

persons become the ones who would get a right to live with dignity,

having no blame against them. 11. This Court, in plethora of cases, comes about issues

where crimes are registered without any rhyme or reason and lead

to quashment of those proceedings in exercise of its jurisdiction

under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., sometimes on the sole score that

it was frivolous or an act of wreaking vengeance, inter alia. It is

therefore, after the accused gets blame-free by a process of law, he

cannot be seen to be carrying the sword of him being accused on

his head, for all his life. Right to oblivion; right to be forgotten are

the principles evolved by the democratic nations, as one being a

facet of right to informational privacy. Countries like France and

Italy, had by themselves evolved the concept of right to oblivion,

which dates back to 19th century. Europe, in the European Union

has, over privacy and personal data, evolved the principle of right 10 to be forgotten, as a right to be a part of ones right to personality,

which encompasses dignity, honour and right to a private life. The

aforesaid principles evolved from time to time, can be paraphrased

into what could become right to life under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. It becomes apposite to refer to the judgment

of the Apex Court in the case of JUSTICE K.S.

PUTTASWAMY(RETD) v. UNION OF INDIA1 . The Apex Court

considers various facets of privacy; one such privacy is

informational privacy. On informational privacy, the Apex Court

observes as follows: People are not static, they change and grow through their
lives. They evolve. They make mistakes. But they are
entitled to re-invent themselves and reform and correct
their mistakes. It is privacy which nurtures this ability
and removes the shackles of unadvisable things which
may have been done in the past. 633. Children around the world create perpetual
digital footprints on social network websites on a 24/7
basis as they learn their "ABCs" : Apple, Bluetooth and
chat followed by download, e-mail, Facebook, Google,
Hotmail and Instagram. [Michael L. Rustad, Sanna
Kulevska, "Reconceptualizing the right to be forgotten to
enable transatlantic data flow", (2015) 28 Harv JL & Tech 349.] They should not be subjected to the consequences
of their childish mistakes and naivety, their entire life.
Privacy of children will require special protection not just
in the context of the virtual world, but also the real
world. 634. People change and an individual should be
able to determine the path of his life and not be stuck
only on a path of which he/she treaded initially. An
individual should have the capacity to change his/her 12 beliefs and evolve as a person. Individuals should not live
in fear that the views they expressed will forever be
associated with them and thus refrain from expressing
themselves. 635. Whereas this right to control dissemination of
personal information in the physical and virtual space
should not amount to a right of total eraser of history,
this right, as a part of the larger right to privacy, has to
be balanced against other fundamental rights like the
freedom of expression, or freedom of media, fundamental
to a democratic society. 636. Thus, the European Union Regulation of 2016
[Regulation No. (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27-4-2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of
such data, and repealing Directive No. 95/46/EC (General
Data Protection Regulation).] has recognised what has
been termed as "the right to be forgotten". This does not
mean that all aspects of earlier existence are to be
obliterated, as some may have a social ramification. If we
were to recognise a similar right, it would only mean that
an individual who is no longer desirous of his personal
data to be processed or stored, should be able to remove
it from the system where the personal data/information
is no longer necessary, relevant, or is incorrect and
serves no legitimate interest. Such a right cannot be
exercised where the information/data is necessary, for
exercising the right of freedom of expression and
information, for compliance with legal obligations, for the
performance of a task carried out in public interest, on
the grounds of public interest in the area of public health,
for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or
historical research purposes or statistical purposes, or for
the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
Such justifications would be valid in all cases of breach of
privacy, including breaches of data privacy." (Emphasis supplied) 13 The Apex Court considers the entire spectrum the right to privacy

and the 'right to be forgotten' evolved in the European Union

Regulation of 2016, by the European Parliament. The Apex Court

recognizes the right to be forgotten to be a basic right under the

right to informational privacy. It has observed the right of an

individual to exercise control over his personal data and, to be able

to control his or her own life would encompass his right to control

over its existence on the internet. The Apex Court observes that the

impact of digital age results in information on the internet being

permanent. Humans forget, but the internet does not forget and

does not let humans forget. Therefore, the soul of the judgment of

the Apex Court quoted supra is that the footprints in certain

circumstances should not be permitted to remain, as it is an

anti-thesis to right to be forgotten. 12. The Apex Court, again in a case concerning squabble

between husband and wife, wherein this Court had rejected the

plea of the parties therein to mask the names, directed this Court

to evolve a methodology of masking the names of both the accused 14 and the victim. The order passed by the Apex Court in XXXX v.

YYYY2 reads as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 2 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1123 15 13. The High Court of Delhi in the case of SJ v. UNION OF

INDIA3 , has held as follows: 2018, or any extracts/or excerpts thereof, as
also modified versions thereof, on any print or
digital/electronic platform shall stand restrained
during the pendency of the present suit. 10. The plaintiff is permitted to communicate
this order to any print or electronic platform including
various search engines in order to ensure that the
articles or any excerpts/search results thereof are not
republished in any manner whatsoever. The plaintiff is
permitted to approach the grievance officers of the 18 electronic platforms and portals to ensure immediate
 compliance of this order.' 10. Recently, the Orissa High Court
 in Subhranshu Rout v. State of Odisha [Subhranshu
 Rout v. State of Odisha, 2020 SCC OnLine Ori 878] ,
 decided on 23-11-2020, has also examined the aspect
 and applicability of the 'right to be forgotten' qua right
 to privacy, in a detailed manner including the
 international law on the subject. 11. It is the admitted position that the petitioner
 was ultimately acquitted of the said charges in the case
 levelled against him. Owing to the irreparable prejudice
 which may be caused to the petitioner, his social life
 and his career prospects, in spite of the petitioner
 having ultimately been acquitted in the said case via the
 said judgment, prima facie this Court is of the opinion
 that the petitioner is entitled to some interim protection,
 while the legal issues are pending adjudication by this
 Court. 12. Accordingly, Respondents 2 and 3 are
 directed to remove the said judgment dated 29-1-2013
 in Custom v. Jorawar Singh Mundy [Custom v. Jorawar
 Singh Mundy, 2013 SCC OnLine Del 359] from their
 search results. Respondent 4 Indian Kanoon is directed
 to block the said judgment from being accessed by
 using search engines such as Google/Yahoo, etc. till the
 next date of hearing. Respondent 1 to ensure
 compliance of this order." 7. In the opinion of the court, the fact that the
entire career of the petitioner, who is a young executive,
is likely to be jeopardised due to the continued presence
of the impugned articles on the internet would weigh in
favour of directing the removal of these publications.
Moreover, the court has to draw a balance between the
right to access information, in general on the one hand
and the petitioner's well-being, mental health, career
prospects and prospects in life and family on the other
hand. The fulcrum of any society following the rule of law
would be to reform a person and not condemn a person 19 permanently. While bearing these factors in mind and
 considering the order extracted above, it is deemed
 appropriate to direct all the publishers i.e. Respondents 3
 to 10 to remove the articles which have been collectively
 attached to the petition as Annexure P-1. 8. In addition, access to the said articles shall also be
 blocked by Respondent 2/Google LLC. 9. MeitY shall also issue directions for blocking of any
 articles relating to the petitioner and the FIR which has been
 quashed, within 48 hours. The present order shall be
 communicated by Mr Rakesh Kumar learned CGSC, to MeitY for
 necessary compliance. 10. Learned counsel for the petitioner shall provide
 learned counsel for the respondents all the specific URLs of the
 articles of which removal is sought. The list shall be
 communicated by the end of day to the respondents. 11. The said URLs shall be removed within 48 hours and
 the access to the same shall be blocked by the respondents. 12. Insofar as the Indian Express is concerned, one
 week's time is granted to the said respondent to remove the
 articles." (Emphasis supplied)

The High Court of Delhi permits masking of the name of the

accused in all the search engines. 14. Evolving this concept of a right to be forgotten or right to

erasure have been the subject matter of the Personal Data

Protection Bills notified from time to time. The Personal Data 20 Protection Bill, 2018 recognizes the right to be forgotten. Likewise,

the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2018 also recognizes the right to

correction and erasure. The Government of India notifies the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 , on 11th August, 2023, to

come into force from the date of its publication in the official

gazette. The Act also recognizes the right of erasure of personal

data. The aforesaid are referred only to lay emphasis, on the fact

that the law in this regard is also evolving in the country. 15. It becomes germane at this juncture, to notice the

judgment of the Queen's Bench of the United Kingdom rendered on

13-04-2018, which also recognizes the said principle in NT 1 v.

GOOGLE LLC4 wherein the Queen's Bench has held as follows: (emphasis added). ... ... ... 165. Behind these competing submissions lie some
obvious difficulties. It is not a simple matter of applying s 4 of
the 1974 Act, without regard to other factor or considerations.
Such a hard-edged approach would be incompatible with human 22 rights jurisprudence, and the fact-sensitive approach that is
required. The argument for the ICO, and the argument with
which Mr Tomlinson ended up, acknowledge as much. The
Court's task is to interpret and apply the will of Parliament as
expressed in a statute passed some 25 years before the advent
of the internet, to a set of facts of a kind that Parliament cannot
then have foreseen; to do so consistently with the will of
Parliament as expressed via the HRA in 1998; and to do so in
the light of the fact that it was not until 2004 that the Courts
identified the existence of the common law tort of misuse of
private information. The conclusions arrived at then have to be
fitted into the scheme of the "right to be forgotten", first
authoritatively recognised in a CJEU judgment of 2014 by which
this Court is bound, by reason of the 1972 Act. (2) The inaccuracy complaint is upheld, and an
 appropriate delisting order will be made, its
 terms to be the subject of argument. (3) The remainder of the delisting claim also
 succeeds. An appropriate order will be
 made, in terms to be the subject of
 argument. (4) The claim for misuse of private information
 succeeds. (5) But Google took reasonable care, and the
 claimant is not entitled to compensation or
 damages." (Emphasis supplied) 23 16. The Queen's Bench declines to accept the contentions of

Google for delisting the name of the accused therein. The claim of

the appellant before the Queen's Bench, on an allegation of misuse

of private information succeeded. The distilled essence of the

judgments rendered by the Apex Court and the judgment of the

Delhi High Court, as also that of the judgment of Queen's Bench

all quoted supra would mean that, even an accused who has been

discharged or acquitted honourably by a competent Court of law

has a right to live with dignity. 17. Article 21 of the Constitution of India mandates that no

person shall be deprived of his life or liberty except in accordance

with law. The expression 'life' cannot be seem to connote a mere

animal existence, it has a much wider meaning. It takes within its

sweep right to live with dignity. In the crime, once the accused

gets acquitted - honourably, discharged by a competent Court of

law, or this Court would quash those crimes in exercise of its

jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and those orders

become final, the shadow of crime, if permitted to continue in place

of shadow of dignity, on any citizen, it would be travesty of the 24 concept of life under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Every

citizen born in this nation, governed by the Constitution, has a right

to live with dignity. What is being sought for, is masking of the

name of the petitioner in the cause title of the case found in the

records of this Court. 18. In the peculiar facts of the case, no fault can be found

with such a demand. I deem it appropriate to observe that when

identical demands are made by those accused or victims, as the

case would be, accused who come within the circumstances

narrated hereinbefore, the Fourth Estate should also consider

masking, delisting and deleting their names from their respective

digital records and not drive them to this Court seeking such

deletion. However, it is made clear that mere erasure of the name

of the petitioner in the cause title, does not mean that he is entitled

to seek such erasure from the police records. The direction

would be only to enable the internet forget, like the humans

forget. If it is allowed to stay on record, the internet will

never permit the humans to forget. 19. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ