The Ministry of Home Affairs issued a letter directing all the states and union territories to take strict action against illegal lending apps in the country, which have led to “multiple suicides”, the Hindustan Times reported . These illegal apps harass, blackmail and use harsh recovery practices against users, a copy of the letter shared by Journalist Arti Singh reveals. The letter is dated 28th September 2022. Interestingly, the letter also extended the support of central agencies to states in solving illegal lending-apps-related crimes. “Law enforcement agencies can avail the services of National Crime Forensic Laboratory (NCFL), one of the verticals of Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), CIS Division for Technical Assistance on loan apps analysis, malware analysis and crypto transaction tracing,” the letter said.

MHA circular on issues related to illegal digital lending apps: 'Law enforcement agencies can avail the services of National Cyber Crime Forensic Laboratory for technical assistance on loan app analysis, malware analysis, crypto txn tracing.' pic.twitter.com/kxq2kA3wkd

— Arti Singh (@artijourno) October 29, 2022

Why it matters: Medianama has previously reported on how these apps ‘extort’ money from people using predatory practices and many of them have been found to be linked to China . The issue is on Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s radar as well, and even the RBI is working on the problem by working a “ whitelist ” of the lending apps that are legal in India. Moreover, the enforcement directorate and state police are doing their bit to catch the perpetrators. However, this has proved to be a challenge for them due to the complexity of the financial transactions involved. The number of suicides that have occurred due to lending apps is still not clear but Congress leader Jairam Ramesh claimed the number of to be as high as 52.

चीन ने पहले भारत की ज़मीन छीनी अब लोन एप्स के माध्यम से भारतीय नागरिकों का पर्सनल डाटा इकट्ठा कर रहा है। इन एप्स के चंगुल में फंसकर 52 लोगों की जान गई है।

चीन को लाल आंख दिखाने की बात करने वाले प्रधानमंत्री आज आंख बंद करके क्यों बैठे हैं?? https://t.co/dKYASEQnPS

— Jairam Ramesh (@Jairam_Ramesh) August 30, 2022

Centre flags privacy issues with these apps

The illegal lending apps gather personal information when users give access to permissions such as contacts and location, which allows them to harass individuals. “Borrower has to provide mandatory access to contacts, location, phone storage, in order to avail loan. This data is misused to harass and blackmail the citizens using morphed images and other abusive practices by recovery agents located in India as well as overseas violating RBI’s Fair Practices Code” the MHA’s letter stated.

Lessons for users

This is a clear example of how personal information can be misused for cybercrime. One should be careful while giving an app access to things like photos and videos, location, contacts, camera etc. as the information collected can be used in many harmful ways. Checking the privacy policy before granting permissions can help in taking a more informed decision.

How do these apps operate?

“…illegal lending apps may not be Regulated Entities (RE) by RBI are using bulk SMS, digital advertisement, chat messengers and mobile app stores on a massive scale” to reach people, MHA said. It has been learnt that this is an organized cyber crime executed using disposable emails, virtual numbers, mule accounts, shell companies, payment aggregators, API services (account validation, document verification), cloud hosting, crypto currency etc”, it added. The letter also said that “domain experts” should be involved while investigating such cases.

Targeting vulnerable groups

A large number of complaints pertaining to digital lending apps have been reported. These apps especially target people from vulnerable and low-income groups by offering short-term/micro-credits at an exorbitant interest rate with processing and hidden charges, the letter said.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event