Tamil News website Vikatan became inaccessible to users across multiple internet service providers (ISPs) after it published a cartoon showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his hands and feet cuffed and chained sitting next to US President Donald Trump. MediaNama independently confirmed that different ISPs are showing different results to users when they search for Vikatan’s website.

Meanwhile, the government has not made any public announcement of takedown orders against the site. Further, as per a report by The Hindu, a senior IT official said that the Ministry did not issue any blocking orders .

As of February 17, 10:00 AM, Hathway’s wireless internet connection shows that it took down the page because of orders from a competent government authority.

Meanwhile, other ISPs like Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea (Vi) just say that the page “took too long to respond” and fail to load the page. While Airtel currently continues to provide access to Vikatan’s site, the site was previously inaccessible on the network and had informed users that it took down the site on orders from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), according to a report by The Hindu .

Tamil Nadu state president of Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP, the ruling party in the central government) K Annamalai had filed complaints against the publication to the central government.

In a post on X on February 15, Annamalai mentioned that he has written to the Chairperson of the Press Council of India and also to the Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting (MoS MIB) L Murugan “seeking prompt action against Vikatan.” He further wrote in his letter, “The deliberate printing of malicious information by Vikatan magazine violates the principles of Ethics published under the norms of journalistic conduct defined by the Press Council of India.”

On behalf of @BJP4TamilNadu , we have submitted two separate representations today: one to the Chairperson of the Press Council of India and another to our Hon MoS Thiru @Murugan_MoS avl, seeking prompt action against Vikatan magazine for being a mouthpiece of the DMK and for… pic.twitter.com/1PZjr9CClC

Vikatan, on the other hand, argued that it had not violated any rules. “We have always operated with the principle of upholding free speech and will continue to do so. We are still trying to ascertain the reasons behind the blocking of our website, and are in the process of taking up this matter with the ministry,” the publication said.

Shruti Narayan, Asia Pacific Policy Counsel at Access Now told MediaNama that blocking news and current affairs coverage is a serious infringement of the fundamental right to free speech and to information in a democracy. “In this case, an entire website was blocked, which is always disproportional and unjustified. It amounts to not only an over-broad blocking but a gag order, since nothing new can be posted,” she said.

In a statement about the situation, Vikatan flagged that the story behind the cartoon focused on the issues of Indians being handcuffed and deported from the United States while India’s Prime Minister remained silent on the matter.

We will stand strong in defense of freedom of expression… For nearly a century, Vikatan has stood firmly in support of freedom of expression. We have always operated with the principle of upholding free speech and will continue to do so. We are still trying to ascertain the… pic.twitter.com/cjiq1YNEOU

Many, including the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu MK Stalin, expressed support for Vikatan, urging the government to make the website accessible again.

இதழியலில் நூறாண்டு காலமாக இயங்கி வரும் @vikatan -னின் இணையத்தளம் முடக்கப்பட்டிருப்பதற்குக் கண்டனத்தைத் தெரிவித்துக் கொள்கிறேன். கருத்துகளுக்காக ஊடகங்கள் முடக்கப்படுவது ஜனநாயகத்துக்கு அழகல்ல! பா.ஜ.க.,வின் பாசிசத் தன்மைக்கு இது எடுத்துக்காட்டு ஆகும். முடக்கப்பட்ட இணையத்தளத்துக்கு…

The fact that there is little to no clarity on whether the government ordered a takedown of Vikatan’s site and that the entire site was restricted from access on certain ISPs (instead of the specific image which led to public outcry) raises serious concerns about the freedom of speech and expression on the internet.

With ISPs making the website inaccessible without any clarity to the users (as evident in certain cases) and also to Vitakatan itself (based on the publication’s statement), other platforms could be deterred from posting content that is critical of the government. This situation also highlights the opacity and inconsistency in website blocking practices across Internet Service Providers (ISPs).

The government can instruct ISPs to block specific websites under section 69 A of the Information Technology Act (IT Act) and the IT (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009 , issued under Section 69A (2). Section 69 A says that the government has the power to issue blocking orders for public access to information where it is necessary to do so “in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence.”

The rules require “ strict confidentiality ” regarding content takedown requests. While the government says that it cannot make takedown orders publicly available as a result of the confidentiality requirement, the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) has previously argued otherwise. “The confidentiality requirement of Rule 16 pertains to the complaints received by MeitY on the basis of which it took the action, and does not and cannot be taken to mean that the blocking orders issued by MeitY are also to be kept confidential,”  IFF Associate Counsel Rohin Garg said in 2021 in the context of MeitY’s orders to censor certain Twitter handles .

Discussing Vikatan’s blocking order with MediaNama, Narayan agreed with Garg’s assessment. “Neither the IT Act nor the IT Rules, 2021 prohibit the publication of a blocking order. Anyone who receives such an order is free to publish it or its contents,” she stated.

Despite the differing interpretations of confidentiality, the government has not always been forthcoming about takedowns. While it has disclosed decisions like its instructions to block Chinese apps , it may not necessarily do so in Vikatan’s case. Even in the case of the apps, the government did not elaborate on the specifics of the order.

“In some previous cases, the government had notified the publisher of their intent to block the information, although emergency blocking without notification also took place. Until December 2023, the government also declared how many blocking orders had been issued under the IT Act. However, the government is now acting with even less transparency, blocking orders without notifying publishers,”Narayan explained.

In a post on LinkedIn , Vikatan’s Managing Director Srinivasan B mentioned that the government had blocked the website ” without any prior intimation, warning or call for explanation” on February 15, and a day later the MIB sent them an email seeking clarification regarding the cartoon they had published. “Yet, the email did not provide any official statement regarding the sudden shutdown of the website,” Srinivasan said.

He mentioned that the company formally reached out to the MIB seeking clarification about the blocking order. The Ministry informed the publication about an upcoming inter-departmental committee meeting to discuss the blocking. Vikatan requested time until February 20 to prepare a response and asked the MIB for the exact reasons behind the blocking order. While MIB granted the publication an extension, it did not give it details of the committee meeting stating confidentiality. While Vikatan does have time to respond till February 20, the emergency blocking order continues to remain in effect. The publication says that it expects a fair hearing before the committee. It says that it is prepared to take legal action if the committee’s decision is not in line with press freedom principles.

The Association of Indian Magazines (AIM) which Vikatan is a part of has also issued a statement against the blocking order stating that the government executed the blocking in the most “brute and draconian manner”. It mentioned that the IT Rules, 2021 (under which the blocking order was issued) have been challenged in multiple High Courts in India. There is also a stay on Rule 9(1) and (3) of the rules (which pertain to the Code of Ethics). As such there is also a stay on the powers of the Inter-Departmental Committee to examine complaints against publishers under the IT Rules.

“It is quite shocking that while the rules are under challenge and have been stayed, that such an inquiry has been initiated, not to mention, order passed even before the due process,” AIM says.

The association urges the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to withdraw the blocking order. Further, it urges MIB not to undertake any inquiries under the IT Rules till the courts decide upon the constitutionality of the rules.

Note: We updated the story on February 18, 2025 at 2:00 PM to add comments from Access Now and Vikatan’s Managing Editor.

Note: MediaNama updated the story on February 18, 2025 at 4:46 PM to add the Association of Indian Magazines statement.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event