1. The petitioner incarcerated in the FIR captioned above, has come up before this
Court under Section 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. In paragraph 18 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. Petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and is also
voluntarily agreeable to the condition that till the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the petitioner shall keep only one mobile number, which is mentioned in AADHAR
card, and within fifteen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The petitioner contends that the further pre-trial incarceration would
cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. The State opposes the bail by filing status report by way of affidavit dated
09.01.2024. Copy of the same supplied to counsel for the petitioner. 5. Facts of the case are being taken from status report dated 09.01.2024 filed by
the DySP, Vigilance Bureau, Unit SBS Nagar, which reads as follows:- operative Labour and Construction Society moved one complaint no.
 23/2022 to Director, Vigilance Bureau, Punjab regarding scam in tenders
 for labour cartage in the Grain Markets, in which the complainant alleged
 that in the year 2020-2021, he had filed tenders for Nawanshahr and
 Rahon Clusters and PG Godown firm only at basic tender rates but both
 were rejected without any base and the tenders were awarded to
 contractor Telu Ram son of Darshan Lal for Nawanshahr Cluster at 71%
 higher rate and Rahon cluster at 72% higher rate. It was further alleged
 by the complainant that in the year 2022-23, he again submitted tenders
 at basic rate for labour works in Rahon cluster and Nawanshahr cluster
 through his above said society, but the same were rejected by the District
 Controller and authorized committee of PUNGRAIN in connivance with
 contractor Ajay Pal son of Mohan Lal (petitioner) . It was further alleged
 by the complainant that the District Allotment Committee had allotted
 the tenders to aforesaid contractor Ajay Pal (petitioner) for Nawanshahr
 Cluster at 73% higher rate and Rahon cluster at 72% higher rate while
 rejecting his tenders at basic rates and causing huge loss to the State
 Exchequer. The said complaint of the complainant was marked to Senior
 Superintendent of Police, Vigilance Bureau, Jalandhar Range by Director
 Vigilance Bureau, Punjab and Senior Superintendent of Police, Vigilance
 Bureau, Jalandhar further entrusted the said complaint to Deputy
 Superintendent of Police, Vigilance Bureau Unit Shaheed Bhagat Singh
 Nagar for conducting inquiry and the aforementioned complaint was
 inquired thoroughly by the inquiry officer. 3. That it is respectfully submitted that during the course of inquiry, it was
 revealed that the District Allotment Committee had not verified the
 documents submitted by the contractor-Ajay Pal (petitioner) and allotted
 the tender for labour/cartage and transportation for the year 2022-23 to
 petitioner after ignoring the irregularities and rejecting the tenders of the
 other contractors submitted at basic rates after showing irregularities in
 their documents, which itself shows the connivance of some government
 officials in commission of crime. It is further transpired that the
 documents submitted by complainant while submitting his tender for the
 year of 2022-2023 included adhar cards of minors and adhar cards which
 were not readable, due to which, the tender of the complainant was
 rejected by the allotment committee, whereas on the other hand, the
 contractor Ajay Pal had also submitted adhar cards of minors, senior
 citizen as well as the adhar cards which could not be readable at the time
 of filling his tender, despite that the allotment committee had granted
 him tender. It was revealed during investigation that the list provided by
 the petitioner had contained total 8 adhar cards of the minors, one of the
 old aged person, whereas total 22 adhar cards provided by the petitioner
 could not be readable. The official of allotment committee had accepted
 the tenders of aforesaid contractors at higher tender rates while
 rejecting the tenders of contractors at basic tender rates after ignoring all
 the above said irregularities. In this manner, these persons have caused
 huge loss to the State Exchequer. The inquiry officer further
 recommended to register the case against all of the aforesaid persons
 namely Telu Ram son of Darshan Lal Yashpal Jaspal son of Mohan Lal and
 Ajay Pal son of Mohan Lal (petitioner), residents of Udhanwal, District
 Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and submitted his report to Senior
 Superintendent of Police, Vigilance Bureau, Jalandhar Range and the
 same was approved by the Senior Superintendent of Police, (VB) 2 2 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2024 00:51:34 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:003730 3 CRM-M-64615-2023
 Jalandhar Range and forwarded to Director, Vigilance Bureau, Punjab. On
 the basis of which, FIR no. 18 dated 22.09.2022 u/s 420 , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC and section 7 , 8 , 12 , 13(2) of PC Act 1988 as amended by PC
 (Amendment) Act 2018 was registered against Telu Ram son of Darshan
 Lal, Yashpal @ Jaspal son of Mohan Lal and Ajay Pal son of Mohan Lal
 (petitioner), residents of Udhanwal, District Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar
 at police station Vigilance Bureau, Range Jalandhar and section 7-A of PC
 Act was added later on during the course of investigation on 01.04.2023." 6. Role of the petitioner is mentioned in paras 4 to 8 of the reply, which reads as
under:- 7. Petitioner's counsel seeks bail on the grounds that similarly placed co-accused
have been granted regular bail. He further submits that after dismissal of his
anticipatory bail by this Court vide order dated 18.09.2023 passed in CRM-M-23337-
2023, petitioner had approached the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and on
16.10.2023, when the matter was listed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, petitioner's
counsel had sought liberty to withdraw the petition to enable them to surrender and
apply for regular bail. On this Supreme Court of India granted two weeks time to the
petitioner for surrender and apply for regular bail. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had
also reserved that if the petitioner surrenders within four weeks then the concerned
Court shall deal with the bail expeditiously and on its merits. On this, the petitioner had
surrendered on 13.11.2023 i.e. within the period of four weeks and after that the
petitioner had filed bail before the Sessions Court Ludhiana and vide order dated
16.12.2023, the Sessions Court dismissed the bail. 8. I have perused the order passed by the Sessions Judge/Special Judge under the Prevention of Corruption Act , SBS Nagar, which is on merits. However the fact is that
the petitioner's pre-trial custody is now more than one month and 27 days.
Furthermore the fact that similary placed co-accused had already been granted regular
bail by this Court, there would be no justification for further pre-trial incarceration. 9. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with the
primafacie analysis of the nature of allegations, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no justifiability further pre-trial incarceration at this stage, subject
to the compliance of terms and conditions mentioned in this order. 4 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2024 00:51:34 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:003730 5 CRM-M-64615-2023 10. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds,
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed
 investigation and the charge sheet is already filed before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation. We are of
 the view that the appellants are entitled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 11. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive
conditions. 12. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 13. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponential growth in technology and artificial
 intelligence has transformed identification techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recognition are incredibly
 sophisticated and pervasive. Impersonation, as we know it
 traditionally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an officer believes that the
 accused might be a flight risk or has a history of fleeing from
 justice, then in such cases, appropriate conditions can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolution has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponential and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only fitting that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alternative options. Furthermore, there should be no insistence 5 5 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2024 00:51:34 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:003730 6 CRM-M-64615-2023
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 14. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automatic renewal
 of the principal and the interest reverting to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said fixed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the petitioner to prepare an account payee demand draft
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds until the case's closure or
 discharged by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declarations made in
 the bail petition and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the
 following personal identification details: 15. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 16. Petitioner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail petition, made
before this court through counsel as reflected at the beginning of this order. If the
petitioner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the victim/complainant may file any such application for the
cancellation of bail, and the State shall file the said application. 17. The petitioner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, till the conclusion of the trial; however, this restriction is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connections or landline
numbers. The petitioner must comply with this condition within fifteen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deactivate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the petitioner,
except the one that is mentioned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that till the no objection from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
petitioner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the directions of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the petitioner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such information from the
petitioner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally entitled
by this order. This condition shall continue till the completion of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655, 7 7 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2024 00:51:34 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:003730 8 CRM-M-64615-2023
[para 45], while granting bail under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2002 , Supreme
Court had directed imposition of the similar condition, which reads as follows, "(d) Both
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the time they remain on
bail and shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA, their respective mobile
numbers." 18. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as stipulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancellation of
this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it to the notice of
the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was earlier cautioned
not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and after that in Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of conditions. 19. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the offence and to provide a sense of security
to the victim. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail conditions imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While
doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation of rights and liberties must be
eschewed." 20. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 21. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 22. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 23. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the accused 8 8 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2024 00:51:34 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:003730 9 CRM-M-64615-2023
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 24. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.