Zomato and Blinkit, previously Grofers, have signed a term sheet as a prelude to a merger, according to ET Now . The deal will be valued at around $700 million. Zomato will shortly apply for authorisation from the Competition Commission of India (CCI), the report said.

Noida Police have received information that cyber frauds are being perpetrated through WhatsApp under the guise of providing a link to the newly-released film “The Kashmir Files,” according to Ranvijay Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida), as reported by The Print on March 16.

Facebook’s algorithm favours the BJP over other political parties in terms of advertising agreements, as per a report in Aljazeera . The BJP was charged a cheaper rate for ads than its opponents in nine of ten elections, including the national parliamentary elections of 2019, which the BJP won.

Talks between Amazon and Future Retail to resolve a long-running disagreement over whether Future’s retail assets may be sold to Reliance Industries have failed, lawyers informed the Supreme Court on March 15, as per Reuters report.

Zomato’s board of directors authorised the purchase of a 16.66 % stake in Mukunda Foods, a food robotics firm, for $5 million on March 15th, according to Inc42 .

Since Russia blocked access to Meta’s platforms Facebook and Instagram, the demand for Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) spiked 2,088% higher than the daily average demand in mid-February, as per a Reuters report.

Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said that non-fungible tokens (NFTs) will soon arrive on Instagram while addressing the audience at the South by Southwest (SXSW) festival on March 15, Techcrunch reported.

German Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) has warned users against the use of Moscow-based Kaspersky antivirus software, citing concerns that it may be used for cyber espionage or cyberattacks in the midst of Russia’s continuing war in Ukraine, as per Reuters report.

The Competition Commission of South Africa said on March 14 that it has sent Meta Platforms, the parent company of Facebook and WhatsApp, to a tribunal for allegedly abusing its market dominance, as per Reuters report. Meta has been accused of abusing its position of dominance by engaging in exclusionary behaviour aimed to prevent competitors or potential competitors from joining, participating in, or expanding in a market, the report said.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event