?If There’s One Story To Read Today

Are Indians aware of the extent of surveillance they are under?

A recent study says no. In fact, the study cautions of an emerging surveillance state where the public is not really alarmed by the spying activities of the State. A survey of over 9,700 individuals across 12 Indian states and UTs shows that nearly half of the respondents are okay with surveillance tools like CCTVs, facial recognition systems, and drones being used by the government and the police.

Sadly, but unsurprisingly, more Indians are also in favour of the government using these tools to quell dissent and protests. The report ‘Status of Policing in India’ also reveals how socio-economic and demographic factors affect the degree of support for surveillance.

The findings raise questions about people’s understanding of surveillance and their right to privacy. Find out what the public mood is and stay tuned for our upcoming reports that delve deeper into the survey results and its implications for citizens’ privacy and digital rights. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

Our hybrid roundtable on ‘Exploring User Verification’ held in Delhi on March 23, 2023, saw some pretty intense discussions on the topic ? Watch the full video here .

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE

The buck stops here : “What’s interesting is that there has been talk in the past about [expecting] trust and accountability from platforms,” noted MediaNama’s Editor Nikhil Pahwa at our “Exploring User Verification” roundtable last Thursday. “But, in the case of fraud, that requirement [of verifying one’s identity] seems to be shifting from platforms to individual users. Why is this issue coming up?” Read on to find out. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Do what you need to do : That’s what the Supreme Court essentially said in 2017, in its landmark Puttaswamy judgment that reaffirmed privacy as a fundamental right. The bottom line: only intrude on privacy if you really need to, and try and disturb the peace as little as possible when you have to. But this “proportionality” test is infrequently used by Indian courts. Experts at our roundtable last week pondered over why that might be. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

CYBERSECURITY

Fear of the drone? Responding to MediaNama’s RTI, the Greater Chennai Police confirmed the use of nine drones to monitor the city area and collect video data. What can these drones do? As per a police tender, they can use Automatic Number Plate Recognition and possibly use facial recognition. If this isn’t scary enough, remember this now comes coupled with a separate ANPR system of the Chennai police that can track people. What’s with the excessive surveillance? [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

Romanticising AI? An AI policy body has now accused OpenAI’s GPT-4 of being biased, deceptive, and a risk to privacy and public safety. The complaint comes amidst a growing concern among some experts about the risks posed to society by generative AI tools. But, there are also those who are warning people of AI-hype as well as false alarms, both harmful in their own ways.  [ Read ?, 3.5 minutes ]

DIGITAL PAYMENTS

No love lost between ZestMoney and PhonePe: It seems like PhonePe may have to wait a little longer to dip its feet in the lending waters after its plan to acquire ZestMoney fell through over a disagreement with the latter’s valuation. It is another sign of how it has become difficult for start-ups as tech companies tighten their purse strings in a bleak economic winter. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

India hunts for spyware that rivals controversial Pegasus system [ Read ] (Mehul Srivastava and Kaye Wiggins/Financial Times)

US court sanctions Google in privacy case, company’s second legal setback in days [ Read ] (Mike Scarcella/Reuters)

Google says Microsoft cloud practices are anti-competitive [ Read ] (Foo Yun Chee/Reuters)

Meta wants EU users to apply for permission to opt out of data collection [ Read ] (Ashley Belanger/Ars Technica)

How a fake Nashville manifesto fueled anti-trans rage online [ Read ] (Drew Harwell/The Washington Post)

Elon Musk’s Twitter pushes hate speech, extremist content into ‘For You’ pages [ Read ] (Faiz Siddiqui and Jeremy B. Merrill/The Washington Post)

Help Me Move? I’ll Pay You in Instagram Likes [ Read ] (Sara Ashley O’Brien/The Wall Street Journal)

FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Pleads Not Guilty to Latest Bribery Charge [ Read ] (Cheyenne Ligon, Nikhilesh De/CoinDesk)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event