The UK announced a new law that would criminalize the creation of non-consensual sexually explicit deepfakes on April 16. Those who create such images would face a criminal record and an unlimited fine. If the offenders circulate this image widely, they could also be sent to jail. This comes after the UK government criminalized the sharing of deepfake intimate images under the Online Safety Act . The new offence will be introduced through an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill.

Besides the UK, other countries have also taken steps to regulate the creation and spread of deepfakes. In January this year, US lawmakers rolled out a bill called DEFIANCE (Disrupt Explicit Forged Images and Non-Consensual Edits Act of 2024) that allows victims of AI-generated porn and deepfakes to sue for compensation. Similarly, in February, the European Parliament and Council reached an agreement on a proposal for the criminalization of sharing non-consensual intimate images (including deepfakes).

Deepfakes allow bad actors to readily create non-consensual intimate images and videos of not just public figures, politicians, and celebrities but also of the average person. While the UK bill seeks to hold creators of such deepfakes accountable, it is worth questioning how law enforcement authorities in the UK would find the creator of the non-consensual intimate deepfake.

Speaking at MediaNama’s discussion on “Deepfakes and Democracy”,  Saikat Dutta, CEO and Co-Founder of DeepStrat, said that there needs to be a certain degree of traceability at the time of generation of such content. He advised that the government work with platforms that provide such services, and at the same time regulate platforms that it cannot work with at the national level.

Law enforcement has been able to facilitate traceability for child sexual abuse material (CSAM), by maintaining something called “hash banks” where every uploaded image is cross-checked with this hash bank to identify any content that matches with what is contained there. But this method won’t work for deepfakes because the scale of the problem is much larger. “The biggest problem with deepfakes is that [something new is] generated every time, and the content can change quite a bit, as opposed to the classical photographs [which CSAM is cross-checked against],” Gautham Koorma, researcher at UC Berkley, explained during the discussion.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event