Applicant - Sahil Verma is in judicial custody for

the offence punishable under Section 64 of the Bharatiya

Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 in Case Crime No.54 of 2025,

registered at Police Station Mallital, District Nainital. 2. According to the First Information Report dated

09.12.2025, in the month of May, 2024, the informant went

to meet the applicant. On 24.07.2024, he took her to a mall

to show her a movie. He took her to a Botanical Garden on

31.07.2024. He gave her coca-cola. She became semi-

unconscious after taking it. He committed rape on her. After

the said incident, he started blackmailing her. He forced her

to send him nude videos and photos. 3. Heard Mr. Pankaj Singh Chauhan, learned

counsel for the applicant and Mr. Pradeep Lohani, learned

Brief Holder for the respondent. 1 2026:UHC:19 4. Mr. Pankaj Singh Chauhan, Advocate, has

contended that the said allegations are false and fabricated.

The informant is a student of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor

of Laws and the applicant is a student of Bachelor of

Commerce. The relationship between the applicant and the

alleged victim was consensual. He has not committed any

offence. There is a delay of one and a half years in lodging

the First Information Report and no explanation has been

given for the said delay. Applicant has no criminal

antecedents. He is a permanent resident of District Udham

Singh Nagar, therefore, there is no possibility of his

absconding, and, he is in custody since 10.12.2025. 5. Mr. Pradeep Lohani, Brief Holder, has opposed

the bail application orally. However, he submitted on

instructions that no alleged video or photo has been found

during the investigation till date. 6. Bail is the rule and committal to jail is an

exception. Refusal of bail is a restriction on the personal

liberty of the individual, guaranteed under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. The object of keeping the accused in

detention during the investigation is not punishment. The

main purpose is manifestly to secure the attendance of the

accused. 7. Having considered the submissions of learned

counsel for both the parties and in the facts and

circumstances of the case, no reason is found to keep the 2 2026:UHC:19
applicant behind the bars for an indefinite period, therefore,

without expressing any opinion as to the merits of the case,

this Court is of the view that the applicant deserves bail at

this stage. 8. The Bail Application is allowed. 9. Let the applicant - Sahil Verma be released on

bail on his executing a personal bond and furnishing two

reliable sureties, each in the like amount, to the satisfaction

of the court concerned. __________________
 ALOK KUMAR VERMA, J. Dt: 02.01.2026
Pant 3