As many as two out of every three people (66 per cent) in this country get three or more spam calls on a daily basis, according to a survey conducted by LocalCircles. The report added that there was not a single person who chose the option of “no spam calls” which were explained as “unwanted, pesky, sales/ promotional or robo calls”.

The survey collected responses from more than 11,000 mobile subscribers in toto out of which 30 percent of them revealed that they get such calls at least once a day. It said that five percent get more than 10 calls everyday.

The platform said that it was a national survey which gathered over 56,000 responses from Indians located in 342 districts. Moreover, 66 percent of respondents were men while 34 percent of respondents were women.

Hey @BajajFinanceLtd – I will file a suit if I get one more call – offering me a 70000 loan – calling me at all hours of the day! @Airtel_Presence

When will the real caller ID kick in – as per KYC? pic.twitter.com/YvDy55CPL4

— Sanjay Swamy (theswamy) (@TheSwamy) February 9, 2023

Why it matters: The survey is notable because it provides a grim picture of the problem of spam calls in India. It is especially important in light of the government’s response to an RTI filed by Medianama wherein it claims to have no data on spam calls made in 2022. The survey also suggests that measures such as a do-not-disturb registry floated by India’s telecom regulator has not been effective in curbing the menace of spam in this country.

What else did the survey reveal: Only four percent out of 15,040 respondents said that they did not get spam calls after enrolling in the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s do-no-disturb (DND) list. However, 92 percent of responders said that they continue to receive spam calls despite opting for DND. The DND list is a feature where a mobile subscriber can register their number to avoid getting unsolicited commercial communication (UCC).

Who is the one making these calls: The report disclosed that 60 percent of respondents (15,168) get a call from spammers selling financial services. The rest of the calls are for selling real estate (18 percent), offering jobs (10 percent), services for RO repair, spa, beauty treatment, healthcare, data plan, (two percent), among others.

How are these calls getting through: As many as 50 percent of respondents (15,312) said that they get calls from different phone numbers which belong to individuals. Only 29 percent indicated that their spam numbers belonged to companies/ brands whereas 14 percent received a call from a centralised company land line number.

Addressing the problem of spam: The telecom regulator had released a consultation paper in which it proposed the idea of providing real name identity of callers to people receiving these calls. The paper said that it will use a database which contains correct names of each subscriber to implement the caller name presentation (CNAP) service. The regulator is looking to leverage details acquired by telecom service providers via customer acquisition forms (CAF).

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event