SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indian lawyers are useless and arrogant
DATE: 2022-05-07
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/uk2cm2/indian_lawyers_are_useless_and_arrogant/

--- POST TEXT ---

No wonder people can't get any justice.

My employer outright refused to pay my salary and fired me for asking the same. So I gathered evidence - took screenshots of all messages, including where they promised to pay and failed to pay. I sent email to the employer saying I would take legal action, and he was dismissive, saying "Go ahead, I don't care". Such arrogance because the fucker knew he could get way with anything.

So after 2 months I started searching for a lawyer. Went on lawrato, it directed me to a lawyer. Looked up reviews, everything seemed good. Talked to that person, told them about my problem. Gave them the info. Then I waited for them to contact me. Two weeks go by, nothing. I contact them, they say "oh alright, I'll ask my junior to contact you". I wait a few days, nothing. Again I contact, same answer. This happens a few more times. I get frustrated. Finally I contact again, she gives me her junior's number. Same rigmarole with this guy. Too busy for me. Finally, I pay them, and then after more weeks of delays they create a legal notice, send it to me for approval, and then send it to the employer's mentioned address. Of course, employer's mentioned address on the offer letter is fake and the company isn't there. I get depressed and forget about it (because I'm busy searching for jobs and dealing with severe health problems).

Then a few months ago, I decide to try again. I look at Lawrato again, and will only give me contact details for that previous lawyer. Fishy. I decide to look elsewhere. I find the website and contact details of what appear to be a good law service. I contact the guy. He's professional, responsive. Within a few days he has drafted the legal notice. He looks up the company's actual address on the registrar of companies. And then once I approve it, he goes ahead and sends the letter. We have to wait 15 days before drafting a complaint. Ok, so I wait 20 days before troubling him.

I ask him to go ahead and file the complaint, he says OK. Then I wait patiently for a few days, no response. Then I ask again, he says he has "mostly finished" the draft (this is beginning of March). Then I wait a few days, keep contacting him again and again. He says he is busy or mostly done. But never sends me a draft. I ask what is taking so long? He says draft creation is the most important part. Ok sure, and I get that he has many other cases too. I am patient. I keep asking once every week. Same response, he is busy, "almost done" and will send it to me "soon" for review. Every single time he never tells me himself, I have to keep calling him and asking what's going on.

Now it's the beginning of May. I wonder what's going on. I send him Whatsapp messages. No response. WTF is going on?! Remember this is a straight forward case. Employer has straight up refused to pay and I have proof of it. Everything is in the bag. It shouldn't take THIS long just to create a complaint draft when it's "almost done" in beginning of March.

So I'm annoyed, I call the guy. I ask him what's going on and demand an answer. I ask him if he's been paid off by my employer. Now of course, he gets angry and flies into a rage. I understand I've touched a nerve. I apologise but I also point out that he's been delaying unreasonably. I understand that he's busy, I'm not his only client, he has many other things to do as well. But it shouldn't take THIS long when he's "almost done" two months prior. Hasn't even sent me a draft yet. And now the 1 year limit for filing a case has come up. He said he would send it to me yesterday morning. Nothing has come.

Again, I have to keep following up all the time. I have to keep asking what's happening (and I'm just asking once a week or once in two weeks). He never sends me an update himself. It just takes 30 seconds or less to write a message "Hey I'm busy with many other cases, please be patient". Not even that. So unprofessional. And he tells me arrogantly that that is how all lawyers are.

No wonder India is so fucked up, when you have laws, but no one will enforce them. We have courts and judges but they are hearing cases from decades ago . We have lawyers but you have to keep running after them every second to get anything done. Even the ones that look good at first.