The Hyderabad cybercrime police seized laptops and computers for investigation purposes in a raid at Congress’ poll strategist Sunil Kanugolu’s office in Madhapur on December 13, Telangana Today reported. The report added that the mobile phones of employees present during the raid were taken by the police and switched off to prevent them from deactivating any social media accounts.

According to The Print’s report , the police claimed that they raided the office at Madhapur in connection with at least five cases registered over defamatory content against Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao and the ruling Bharat Rashtra Samithi (BRS) on social media. On investigating, they found that such content was published using different IP addresses and fake profiles on social media.

As per a Hindustan Times report, the Joint Commissioner of Police Dr Gajarao Bhupal said that the police could track down the office of the Mindshare United Foundation with latest cybercrime detection tools. Later, they discovered that the office was Congress’s poll strategist’s office.

The Telangana Congress members protested in the state against the raid at the party’s political war room. They have alleged that around 50 laptops were stolen from the office and professionals were arrested without any search warrant or FIR copies, India Today reported. They have also raised concerns of data theft by the police during the raid.

Sections invoked in the Telangana case

Three people from Kanugolu’s office were detained and let off after they were handed notices under section 41 (A) of the CrPC. The police are preparing to issue a notice to Kanugolu who has also been named as an accused in the case, the police told reporters on Wednesday, the South First reported. The report also cites that according to sources, “charges of creating, posting and distributing defamatory content, including under section 501 IPC, have been invoked in the case.”

Why it matters?

A number of cases in the past have raised concerns of search and seizure of personal devices by the police in different states for investigations. The Indian government has justified such seizures stating that the right to privacy is not absolute and that such searches are carried out under established procedures. However, in case of a CBI investigation, the Delhi District Court has said in the past that obtaining passwords of people’s electronic devices without consent is a violation of their right against self-incrimination . At a time when India does not have a data protection law, search and siezure cases have continued to raise concerns on violation of right to privacy and compromising of personal data, sensitive or otherwise, by the state under broad exemptions.

Ongoing case in the Supreme Court:

Two connected petitions on the search and seizure of electronic devices by law enforcement agencies were filed in the Supreme Court, one by a group of academics and another by the Foundation of Media Professionals. The Indian government was directed by the SC to file a counter-affidavit in response to FMP’s petition in eight weeks. The matter will be listed in the court after twelve weeks, MediaNama reported.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event