1. The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition
 Act, 2002 (hereinafter the 'Act') by Ms. Harshita Chawla, (hereinafter, the
 'Informant') against WhatsApp Inc. (hereinafter, 'WhatsApp') and Facebook
 Inc. (hereinafter, 'Facebook') alleging contravention of the provisions of Sections Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 1 of 41 4 of the Act. WhatsApp and Facebook are collectively referred to as the 'Opposite
 Parties' or the 'OPs'. Facts, as stated in the information 2. The Informant is stated to be a practicing advocate engaged in extensive legal
 research and advocacy in multiple fields affecting the society. The Informant has
 claimed that the present information has been filed to highlight the anti-competitive
 practices followed by platforms in Unified Payment Interface (UPI) market in India
 which affect participants/players in the said market, besides impacting individual
 customer/consumer in the long run. 3. WhatsApp (OP-1), launched in 2009, is an instant messaging application which
 provides a simple interface with no ads, allowing users to communicate with other
 WhatsApp users either in groups or individually. WhatsApp uses the Internet to
 send and receive text messages, images, audio or video content from one user to
 another. It further offers features like group chatting, voice messages and location
 sharing. To use this App, one simply needs a compatible smartphone/tablet/desktop
 with a sim card, an Internet connection and a phone number. 4. Facebook, Inc. (OP-2), a technology company based in United states of America,
 is a social networking platform that allows the users to connect with other
 Facebook users through posts, messages, likes, comments etc. Facebook is
 considered as one of the Big Five technology companies along with Microsoft,
 Amazon, Apple, and Google. In the year February 2014 Facebook, acquired
 WhatsApp for the purchase price of US$19 billion and is thus the parent company
 of WhatsApp. 5. The Informant has alleged that Facebook backed WhatsApp, by using its
 dominance in the internet based instant messaging App, is bundling its messaging
 App with the payment option (WhatsApp Pay) thereby using such dominance to Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 2 of 41 penetrate into the UPI enabled Digital Payments App Market. Moreover, by
 enabling automatic installation of WhatsApp Payments App in the WhatsApp
 Messaging App, Whatsapp is alleged to be taking advantage of its vast userbase to
 popularise its newly launched Whatsapp Pay App. 6. The Informant has further stated that UPI enabled Digital payment market deals
 with customer sensitive data and alleges that with the given volume of data,
 national security and data privacy can be compromised, if the anti-competitive
 activities of the OPs are left unchecked and unregulated, thereby leading to loss at
 a national level. Such data helps to understand the volumes of transactions,
 buying/purchasing behaviour of customers, popularity of sectors, etc. which are
 also crucial for shaping the domestic policies of our country. 7. The Informant states that Facebook works on attention-based advertising business
 model and is one of the most visited websites globally with an active user base of
 2.37 billion active monthly users. Upon signing up, a user provides his/her personal
 details and data - which then gets frequently updated by such user over the years.
 On the basis of such data and the activities updated and posted by users, Facebook
 targets right audience at the right time with the right product. This is known as
 Targeted Advertising. The Informant claims that to replace the revenue earned
 from targeted advertisement with an ad-free service, they have to charge each user
 at least an amount equivalent to its current Average Revenue Per User (ARPU). 8. The Informant claims that the Facebook's acquisition strategy has always been
 focused on buying out its market competition which is evident from the multiple
 acquisitions it made in last few years that turned heads in the market. In addition
 to acquisition of WhatsApp, the most popular acquisition made by Facebook is that
 of Instagram, the popular photo-sharing application, for about $1 billion in cash
 and stock in the year 2012. The Informant has also stated that through the
 acquisition of WhatsApp, Facebook is much closer to reaching billions of people,
 and with a market of that size, it is sure to find a way to eventually cash in. The Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 3 of 41 Informant also alleged that by acquiring its competitors, Facebook has made
 available a product portfolio made of Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and
 Oculus, which are called the five pillars of its revenue-generating model thereby
 driving out healthy competitors from the market. The Informant has further
 submitted that by utilising the vast amount of personal data from its billions of
 active users and their activities, Facebook can customise advertisements to suit user
 situation and attract attention. This type of targeting is extremely beneficial for
 advertisers, who are willing to pay a premium to ensure that their products/services
 are advertised to right people at the right time. According to the Informant, OP-2
 monetizes the user data, generates revenue and drives out healthy competition from
 the market. 9. In relation to WhatsApp's revenue model, the Informant has stated that WhatsApp
 does not charge a direct fee for its service to its users but it shares the data it collects
 automatically from the users on the WhatsApp with Facebook thereby aiding it in
 generating huge revenues through targeted advertisements. The Informant also
 claims that WhatsApp shares data with third parties permitted to interact with the
 users. Moreover, WhatsApp also has business application, which is currently free
 to download, which allows users to build their business profile along with
 important links to their website or Facebook page, set up auto responders, link their
 landline numbers with WhatsApp and can integrate the WhatsApp for Business
 application program interface (API) with their product offering. While there is no
 initial charge for the service, WhatsApp charges a fee if the business does not
 respond within 24hrs. 10. United Payments Interface (UPI), which was launched in 2016 with the aim of
 transforming India into a "less-cash" society, is an instant real-time payment
 system facilitating inter-bank transactions on a mobile platform. UPI was designed
 by National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI), which works like an email ID
 that the bank uses for each individual to transfer money through the Immediate Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 4 of 41 Payments Service (IMPS), which is faster than NEFT and works throughout the
 day. In other words, the UPI is a payments system, akin to plastic money, cheque,
 debit card, or a mobile wallet. The UPI system is interoperable between banks,
 which makes it unique and convenient for the users. It also caters to the "Peer to
 Peer" request which can be scheduled and paid as per requirement and
 convenience." 11. The Informant highlighted various key features of UPI to emphasise that it is a
 unique product, different from the other systems of payment used by a consumer.
 For example, payments under UPI can be initiated by both, the sender (Pay) as well
 as the receiver (Collect); UPI is a mobile first platform which carries out
 transactions in a secure manner aligned with the extant RBI guidelines; payments
 can be done using Virtual Payment Address (VPA), Account Number & Indian
 Financial System Code (IFSC) etc.; payment uses 1-click 2-factor authentication
 etc. 12. The UPI works on a two/three/four party model. There can be maximum four
 entities consisting of two PSPs (Payment Service Providers) which will be acting
 as Interface Providers for the customers/merchants and two banks acting as
 Remitter & Beneficiary Bank. The role of the two PSPs is to facilitate the
 transactions; however, the debits and credits happen in the bank accounts. The UPI
 is designed for banks, as only a banking entity can directly interact with the UPI
 switch. However, there is a provision for non-banking entities to participate in the
 UPI ecosystem. Although such non-banking entities will have to partner with a
 banking entity (already enabled on UPI) and develop their own PSP. Such PSP's
 are known as third party applications. Many technology-based companies have
 ventured into the UPI ecosystem through this mode and have offered Third-Party
 App services. Users can access UPI payment facilities through such Third-Party
 Apps facilitating payments through UPI. These apps use UPI libraries and utilities
 to facilitate user registration, creation of VPA and provide payment services to the Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 5 of 41 users. Users are thus, not bound to use the app of their own bank and can instead
 choose the app of any bank or any Third-Party Apps facilitating payments through
 UPI. Google Pay, PhonePe, PayTM and BHIM are some of Third-Party Apps
 facilitating UPI payments. WhatsApp Pay also acts as a Third-Party App for
 facilitating payments between users. 13. The Informant claims that such Third-Party App (TPA) providers constantly strive
 to make their business more viable in the UPI ecosystem to sustain in the competing
 market with multiple market players. To become a part of the UPI ecosystem, a
 TPA (a non-banking entity) must comply with procedural guidelines, at the initial
 stage, to be able to ensure safety and security of transactional data at a national
 level. Even post entry, because of the existence of technology giants in the digital
 payments market, the TPAs are necessitated to invest huge amount of money and
 skill and devise strategies to be able to survive fierce competition and acquire
 customers. Some TPAs attract customers through various modes including but not
 limited to cash backs, vouchers, discount offers etc. The financial burden to incur
 the cost of customer acquisition, however, is borne by such TPAs out of their own
 pocket, from their marketing budget. Further, a TPA then has to work its way to
 not only ensure maintaining such customer base but also expanding it and at the
 same time such a TPA has to deploy strategies to cover the cost of customer
 acquisition through other modes to ensure it survives the competition in the market.
 Thus, a user acquisition cycle involves two stages. The first step involves adoption
 of the user and, second involves his/her continuous engagement. While incentives
 in the form of cash backs, discounts, etc. will continue to pour in for new users on
 the TPA UPI enabled Apps, it cannot be the only factor to drive such user's
 engagement indefinitely. Such TPAs will have to keep adding something new to
 keep the user engaged on its platform. 14. Besides, every TPA has to ensure compliances, adherence to restrictions and
 regulations and further investments and constant innovation to keep up with the Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 6 of 41 pace of its competitors and market demand. The Informant further submitted that
 since consumer payment in the digital payment arena is a low-margin game, the
 success of any TPA is completely defined by the scale of operations. Therefore,
 user-base forms one of the most significant factor driving competition among all
 market players. 15. The Informant has also provided the statistics related to the growth of the UPI in
 India. According to the Informant, UPI has recorded a roaring transactional value
 of 10.8 billion in the year 2019 in terms of volume. This amounts to 188 percent
 year-over-year increase. While in terms of value, UPI facilitated transactions worth
 Rs.18.36 trillion, an increase of 214 per cent from 2018. The Informant has claimed
 that UPI has established itself as the most preferred mode of payments. As per the
 newspaper reports relied upon by the Informant, UPI is perhaps the fastest product
 to hit 1 billion transactions-a-month in 2019 since its inception in August 2016.
 The Informant has further stated that besides being the most preferred method of
 payment, UPI has also become a crucial tool to achieve the financial goal of "less-
 cash" economy in India. Thus, control of such market in the hand of any
 monopolistic party (sic) and that too a foreign party like the OPs can have huge
 impact on the market, our country and the consumers. 16. The Informant has submitted that the services provided by the Opposite Parties are
 amenable to scrutiny under the Act even though such services are being offered
 without any monetary fee/charge. The Informant has proposed the following two
 relevant product markets: 17. The Informant has claimed that services provided by the internet-based messaging
 Apps through smartphones form a separate and distinct market and cannot be
 substituted or interchanged with the traditional electronic communication services Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 7 of 41 such as text messaging, voice calls, etc. that are provided by telecom service
 providers for reason of their prices, functionality and basic characteristics. 18. As regards the geographic market, the Informant has stated that as such the
 functionality of consumer communication apps through smartphones does not
 differ depending on the region or country concerned, either in terms of price,
 functionality or operating system. However, the competitive conditions, regulatory
 architecture and players may vary in different countries/regions. Since conditions
 for competition are homogenous in India, the geographic area of India has been
 proposed to be the relevant geographic market. Accordingly, the first relevant
 market has been proposed as the 'market for internet-based Messaging Apps
 through smartphones in India'. 19. As regards the second relevant market i.e. the market for UPI enabled digital
 payment applications, the Informant has focused on both the application developers
 and application users. UPI is a separate product developed by NPCI which allows
 transfer of funds in the form of IMPS. It is a special ecosystem enabling instant
 transfer of funds, bringing several banking features under one roof and available
 throughout the day. Even a non-banking third party can participate in the said UPI
 Ecosystem partnering with a bank. Thus, the same constitutes a distinct and unique
 market as per the Informant, which cannot be substituted with any other mode of
 payment such as debit cards, credit cards, mobile wallets, mobile apps, net banking,
 electronic clearing services, National Electronics Funds Transfer System (NEFT),
 Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) or other similar means. Thus, as per the
 Informant, the relevant market for the purposes of the present issue shall be the
 'market for UPI enabled Digital Payments Apps'. As regards the geographic
 market, the Informant claimed that the UPI enabled Digital Payment System is
 unique to India and the conditions for competition are homogenous in India.
 Accordingly, the geographic area of India has been proposed as the relevant Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 8 of 41 geographic market. Thus, the second relevant market is the 'market for UPI
 enabled digital payment applications in India'. 20. The Informant has submitted that WhatsApp is dominant in the market for internet- based instant messaging app through smartphones in India. The Informant has
 primarily relied upon the following factors, as enshrined under Section 19(4) of the
 Act, to allege dominance: b) Size and resources of enterprise: The Informant alleged that Facebook, which
 is the parent company of WhatsApp, is among the big five technology
 companies of the world and has been known to eliminate its competition in the
 market by buying out the competitors. The major revenue of the Opposite
 Parties is claimed to come from targeted advertisements and huge user data is
 alleged to be the biggest driving force behind it. c) Size and importance of competitors: The Informant has referred to Hootsuite
 survey according to which WhatsApp messenger holds first rank and Facebook
 holds second rank based on the 'mobile application used by active users' in
 January 2019 and holds the same position in January 2020 too. As against this,
 its competitors lag behind. d) Dependence of consumers on the enterprise and countervailing buyer power: 21. Based on the aforesaid, the Informant has alleged that WhatsApp enjoys an
 undisputed and unperturbed dominance in the 'market for internet based instant
 messaging apps on smartphones in India'. Allegations under Section 4 of the Act 22. The Informant has primarily made two sets of allegations, alleging contravention
 of various sub-sections of Section 4 of the Act emanating therefrom. 23. Firstly, it has been alleged that the users of WhatsApp automatically get the
 payment app owned by WhatsApp i.e. 'WhatsApp Pay' installed on their
 smartphones. This automatic installation of the Payment option into the Messenger
 App is nothing short of 'pre-installation' which is forced upon a user of the
 dominant product, WhatsApp messenger. This, as per the Informant leads to
 contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act as automatic installation of
 WhatsApp Pay on existing WhatsApp Messenger user's device amounts to
 imposition of unfair condition on the users/consumers. 24. The Informant further stated that there exist two separate markets for Internet based
 Messaging Apps on smartphones and for UPI enabled Digital Payments Apps and
 that there exists a sufficient consumer demand for use of these apps separately and
 independently. Thus, the conduct of WhatsApp amounts to bundling since the two
 products are offered as a package and are not available independent of each other,
 which contravenes Section 4(2)(d) of the Act. This bundling arrangement allegedly
 has an element of 'coercion' as WhatsApp enjoys a dominant position in the
 internet based instant messaging app market, having a pre-existing user base of
 more than 400 million monthly active users in India. A user who does not wish to
 install the Payments App but only the Messenger App does not have the option to Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 11 of 41 do so. Similarly, vice versa, a user who desires to only use WhatsApp Payment
 service will be mandatorily required to install the WhatsApp messenger. 25. Further, it has been alleged that such automatic installation also amounts to
 contravention of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act as the dominance of WhatsApp in
 Internet based instant messaging App market favours and protects it in the UPI
 enabled Digital Payments Applications Market. In the market for UPI enabled
 Digital Payments App, WhatsApp is fairly a new player as compared to the already
 existing giant players like Googlepay, PhonePe, Paytm, Mobikwik, etc. who all
 have spent considerable time and resources to achieve a significant market share.
 Thus, to be able to create its mark and establish a name in such a new market for
 any entrant would require huge investment of money, time and requisite skills. The
 OPs, however, made no such efforts and directly by-passed the competition by
 bundling its payment app with the messaging app, thereby causing huge adverse
 impact on market competition, market participants and ultimately the consumers
 who may no longer benefit from the market competition. Relying on a newspaper
 report, the Informant has also highlighted that WhatsApp's penetration in this
 market is growing exponentially as WhatsApp Pay Beta License for WhatsApp
 Pay has now been permitted for the user limit of 10 million from 1 million users. 26. Secondly, the Informant has alleged that the acquisition of WhatsApp, Instagram
 and Oculus by Facebook causes an adverse effect on the competition as these
 companies have huge data sets of users which they can use for their commercial
 advantage. The Informant has also referred to an ongoing federal lawsuit against
 Facebook on its anti-competitive activities of acquisition and driving out
 competition in United States of America. The Informant also referred to EU
 antitrust case against Facebook alleging access to more data and revenue by
 acquisition and blocking of competition with the expansion in new sectors. The
 Informant has also highlighted the fine imposed by Federal Trade Commission
 (FTC) on Facebook amounting to US$5 billion for violation of consumer's privacy Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 12 of 41 by breaching data security and privacy laws. Reliance has been placed on various
 news articles to substantiate the foregoing facts. 27. Besides the aforesaid, the Informant has also made some miscellaneous allegations
 e.g. serious non-compliance of critical and mandatory procedural norms pertaining
 to data localisation and storage by the OPs, data privacy issues etc. Further, the
 Informant has alleged contravention of Section 4(2)(b)(ii) and 4(2)(c) of the Act,
 though no conduct has been specifically mentioned with regard to these sub-
 sections. 28. Based on the foregoing facts and allegations, the Informant has prayed for an
 investigation against WhatsApp under the Act and directions to the OPs to
 immediately cease and desist their anti-competitive operations of bundling the
 Internet based Instant Messaging App and UPI enabled Digital Payments Apps
 together. Further, the Informant has briefly sought interim relief asking the
 Commission to restrain abuse of dominance by WhatsApp, vide which it bundles
 its digital payment service with its messenger service. The Informant has averred
 that in case interim relief as sought is not granted, the Informant would suffer
 irreparable loss and injury. 29. The Commission considered the information in its ordinary meeting held on
 06.05.2020 and decided to seek written comments/response from the Opposite
 Parties, i.e. WhatsApp and Facebook, on the information filed by the Informant.
 On 11.06.2020, WhatsApp and Facebook filed their separate responses to the
 Information filed by the Informant. On 30.06.2020, the Commission considered
 their responses and decided to pass an appropriate order in due course. Submissions of Facebook 30. Facebook has submitted that it offers a broad range of innovative services that
 enable people to connect with each other, communicate with other users as well as Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 13 of 41 larger groups, share with their friends, families, and wider communities, and
 discover meaningful and relevant content. It has been contended that while
 Facebook is the parent company of WhatsApp, they are separate and distinct
 companies. Besides challenging the locus of the Informant in filing the present
 information, Facebook has challenged its being arrayed as a proper party in this
 matter. It has been alleged that since the Informant has neither highlighted any
 allegations against Facebook, nor has prayed for any relief against it, Facebook
 should be deleted from the memorandum of parties. 31. As regards the locus, Facebook and WhatsApp both have alleged that the Informant
 does not have a locus standi to approach the Commission because neither she has
 claimed any injury nor has suffered invasion of her legal rights as a consumer.
 Relying on the recent ruling of the Hon'ble National Company Law Appellate
 Tribunal ('NCLAT') in Samir Agarwal v. Competition Commission of India ,
 decision dated 29.05.2020, Facebook and WhatsApp have contended that a lawyer,
 such as the Informant, who has not even claimed any legal injury as a consumer or
 as a member of any consumer or trade association as a result of WhatsApp's
 conduct, does not have locus standi to approach the Commission, and the
 information deserves to be dismissed under the Act. 32. It has been submitted that the Informant is indulging in forum shopping as she is
 closely associated with a petitioner who has approached the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India raising the same core issues as those raised in the Information.
 Further, such apparent non-disclosure of the pending litigation by the Informant
 has been argued to be an evidence of the Informant's mala fide intent and unclean
 hands with which she has approached the Commission. 33. Facebook has also submitted that WhatsApp and Facebook are separate and distinct
 entities and any alleged strengths of Facebook cannot be attributed to WhatsApp.
 Facebook has also objected to the Informant's allegations regarding Facebook's
 previous acquisitions stating that such legitimate and legal acquisitions cannot be Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 14 of 41 equated with abuse of dominance under Section 4 of the Act, more so when
 Facebook obtained all necessary approvals for the acquisitions referred to by the
 Informant. It further stated that mergers and acquisitions are essential for driving
 innovation, and developing products and services that adapt to consumer needs. 34. While denying the allegation pertaining to sharing of data and its misuse, Facebook
 stated that the Informant has falsely claimed that WhatsApp automatically shares
 WhatsApp Pay user data with Facebook for use in targeted advertisements.
 Facebook further submitted that this claim does not raise any competition concern
 and need not be looked into by the Commission. 35. As regards the Informant's reliance on cases against Facebook in other
 jurisdictions, Facebook stated that the Commission has held in the past that mere
 initiation of investigation by another competition authority does not necessarily
 warrant an action under the Act. 36. Based on the aforesaid averments, Facebook has specifically sought that its name
 be deleted from the memorandum of parties and also sought for dismissal of the
 information. Submissions of WhatsApp 37. In its written submission dated 11.06.2020, WhatsApp has raised some preliminary
 issues along with its submissions on substantive issues. The preliminary objection
 regarding Informant's locus has already been detailed supra while stating
 Facebook's submissions, hence the same is not reproduced in detail herein for the
 sake of brevity. 38. WhatsApp further stated that the Informant has not provided any evidence in
 support of its allegations, and the matter deserves to be dismissed on this ground
 alone. While placing reliance on Hon'ble NCLAT's order in Board of Control for Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 15 of 41 Cricket in India v. Competition Commission of India, COMPAT, Appeal No. 17 of
 2013 decided on 23.02.2015, WhatsApp submitted that Informant has made
 allegations relying on unverified newspaper reports which lacks legal
 admissibility. Further, the information is stated to be premature, given that the full-
 release version of WhatsApp Pay, which would enable all users in India to access
 the WhatsApp Pay feature, has not been launched. WhatsApp Pay is currently in
 beta version and limited to serving less than 1% of users of the WhatsApp
 application in India. 39. WhatsApp submitted that the Informant has incorrectly defined the relevant market
 to be, the 'market for internet based instant messaging apps in India' whereas
 WhatsApp operates in a much broader market under 'market for user attention'. It
 has been stated that WhatsApp application competes broadly with all digital
 products and services that seek to capture user attention through innumerable
 different services or functionalities, such as social networking, messaging, gaming,
 content viewing and sharing, photo and video sharing, or music, amongst many
 others. Further, most of these services in this market are free for the users who
 frequently multi-home between service providers who operate to garner the user
 attention. Accordingly, the relevant market cannot be limited to a specific mode of
 engagement like instant messaging. 40. As regards dominance, WhatsApp claimed that it does not enjoy a dominant
 position in the market proposed by it or even in the narrow market proposed by the
 Informant. The assessment of the Informant, it has been argued, does not meet the
 test for dominance under the Act as the Informant has failed to provide any
 comparative analysis to demonstrate that WhatsApp acts independent of
 competitive constraints from other messaging applications active in India such as
 Google Hangouts, iMessage, Viber, Hike, Zoom, Skype, Telegram, or Truecaller,
 or SMS services offered by every telecommunications operator in India. Moreover, Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 16 of 41 details of other messaging or communication applications and their numbers other
 than WhatsApp, which is critical for dominance assessment, has not been provided. 41. In relation to dominance assessment based on market shares, WhatsApp has
 claimed market shares are static, fixed at a point in time, and thus do not adequately
 reflect the realities of competition in this industry where share swings substantially
 over short periods, successful entry occurs frequently, demand (user preferences)
 change very quickly, and there is significant multi-homing by consumers.
 Therefore, in such a market, a snapshot of historical market shares or share of usage
 does not by itself accurately reflect the market power of a firm. Further, it has been
 submitted that the competitors in this market include large established global
 companies, recent new entrants who have quickly gained popularity, as well as
 local Indian competitors, who will all continue to exert significant competitive
 constraints on WhatsApp. Thus, WhatsApp is not dominant, irrespective of the way
 the relevant market is defined. 42. Further, WhatsApp has denied all allegations of abuse raised by the Informant. As
 regards Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act, WhatsApp has submitted that to constitute an
 abuse, it must be demonstrated that WhatsApp Pay has imposed itself upon users
 of the WhatsApp messenger application, who have no choice but to submit to using
 WhatsApp Pay. However, there is no imposition or element of coercion as users
 retain full discretion on whether to register for or use WhatsApp Pay. To register
 for WhatsApp Pay, users accept a separate terms of service agreement and privacy
 policy. Users register for WhatsApp Pay separately by providing additional
 information and undertaking various steps to link their bank account, as is required
 for all UPI linked payments. No user can send or receive funds through WhatsApp
 Pay without taking these voluntary steps to enter into these separate terms of
 service and registering for the WhatsApp Pay feature. WhatsApp Pay remains
 disabled until it is manually set up by a user and WhatsApp's other non-payment
 features remain uncompromised in terms of functionality and quality, irrespective Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 17 of 41 of it being pre-installed. It has also been submitted that even if users were to
 activate the payments feature, users in India, can and do multi-home between
 various applications, and the launch of WhatsApp Pay is pro-competitive by
 providing users an additional feature to make payments as all UPI-based payment
 features are inter-operable. 43. As regards leveraging, WhatsApp has claimed that contravention of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act, requires a dominant enterprise to have used its dominant position in one
 relevant market to enter into, or protect, another relevant market. Further,
 leveraging to constitute abuse can only be said to have occurred when an enterprise
 undertakes some restrictive or abusive conduct. The Informant has failed to
 establish the necessary elements of a leveraging claim as the users retain full
 discretion and optionality in choosing whether to use WhatsApp Pay; therefore, the
 Informant cannot demonstrate that WhatsApp has actively restricted or imposed
 obligations on users to do anything. Rather, WhatsApp simply offers users
 WhatsApp Pay as a feature, should they choose to use it. There is no restrictive or
 abusive conduct or any "use" of an alleged dominant position as required under Section 4(2)(e) of the Competition Act. In addition, WhatsApp has averred that a
 close associational link between two markets under scrutiny must be established
 for a leveraging allegation to be sustained under Indian competition law. Without
 such a link, it would not be necessary to demonstrate dominance in any segment to
 prove that an abuse has occurred, and the strategy in question could be replicated
 by any competitor who would not need particular market power to affect this
 strategy. For example, any instant messaging application can introduce a payment
 feature and, therefore, it is not by virtue of any alleged dominant position of
 WhatsApp that WhatsApp has been able to introduce the payment feature.
 Accordingly, dominance has nothing to do with entry into the alleged market for
 UPI-enabled digital payment applications in India. 44. In relation to the allegation of bundling of WhatsApp Pay with WhatsApp
 messenger app under Section 4(2)(d) of the Act, it has been argued at the outset
 that since WhatsApp pay is only in the beta phase, it cannot be even said to exist
 as a separate product. It has been stated that the allegation of bundling is without
 merit and does not satisfy the conditions of bundling as understood in the antitrust
 context. Firstly, it has been submitted that the WhatsApp application and the
 payments feature are not separate products, rather it is an additional feature, whose
 commercial launch is subject to approval by NPCI. WhatsApp's "product" is the
 WhatsApp application, which has over time added a number of new features,
 including voice messaging, video calling, image and document sharing, among
 others. WhatsApp Pay is an additional feature that will become part of the
 WhatsApp service when the full release version of WhatsApp Pay is launched. The
 mere fact that WhatsApp offers multiple features on its application does not make
 them separate products and therefore, the Informant fails to satisfy the requirement
 that there be two separate products. Secondly, it has been stated there is no
 insistence or coercion for the use of WhatsApp Pay. Neither the users are required
 to register for or use WhatsApp's payment feature in order to use the WhatsApp
 messenger service nor the use of WhatsApp messenger service is conditional upon
 the usage of its payments feature. Further, there is no anti-competitive effect of
 offering WhatsApp Payment app along with WhatsApp messaging service. 45. As regards the other miscellaneous allegations such as non-compliance with data
 localization norms and two factor authentication requirements etc., WhatsApp has
 stated that these do not raise competition concerns and ought not to be examined
 under the Act. Moreover, the allegation that WhatsApp automatically shares
 WhatsApp Pay user data with Facebook to be used in targeted advertisements are
 unfounded and deserve to be dismissed. 46. In view of the aforesaid submissions, WhatsApp has prayed that the information
 be set aside and the case be closed under Section 26(2) of the Act. Analysis of the Commission 47. At the outset, the Commission notes that besides substantive objections to the
 allegations made by the Informant, both the Opposite Parties have raised a
 preliminary objection to the locus of the Informant in filing the present information,
 placing reliance on the recent decision of the Hon'ble National Company Law
 Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter, 'NCLAT') in Samir Agarwal vs. Competition
 Commission of India [Competition Appeal (AT) No.11 of 2019 decided on
 29.05.2020] (hereinafter, 'Samir Agarwal case'). The argument made by them is
 two-pronged--firstly, the Informant is not an aggrieved party as she has not
 claimed any injury or has not suffered invasion of her legal rights as a consumer or
 beneficiary of healthy competitive practice to have a locus standi to file the present
 information. Secondly, the Informant has indulged in forum shopping as she is
 closely associated with a petitioner who has approached the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India by filing a petition against WhatsApp and Facebook recently and
 this apparent non-disclosure of the pending litigation reveals the mala fide intent
 of the Informant and the unclean hands with which she has approached the
 Commission. 48. The Commission finds it imperative to deal with the twin arguments before delving
 into the merits of the present case. 49. As regards the first issue that the Informant is not an aggrieved party, the
 Commission observes that given the scheme of the Act, this ground is
 misconceived. 50. The Preamble to the Act unequivocally voices the ethos with which the Act was
 enacted, keeping in view the economic development of the country, for the
 establishment of a Commission to prevent practices having adverse effect on
 competition, to promote and sustain competition in markets, to protect the interests
 of consumers and to ensure freedom of trade carried on by other participants in Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 20 of 41 markets, in India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
 Clearly, the Act has been conceived to follow an inquisitorial system wherein the
 Commission is expected to investigate cases involving competition issues in rem,
 rather than acting as a mere arbiter to ascertain facts and determine rights in
 personam arising out of rival claims between parties. Further, many a time, even
 though a case filed by an aggrieved party may appear to be a case in personam,
 underlying it is a larger question of market distortion. The mere fact that a case has
 been filed by an aggrieved party under the Competition Act , does not take away its
 character of being a case in rem involving a larger question of fair and competitive
 markets. 51. The role of the Commission as an overarching market regulator also finds its
 foundational footing in the amendments introduced in the Act, vide the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 , whereby and whereunder the provisions of Section 19 (1) (a) were amended substituting the words "receipt of a complaint" 52. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had occasion to examine the scheme of the
 Act in detail in the case of Competition Commission of India vs. Steel Authority of
 India Ltd. (SAIL), Civil Appeal No. 7779 of 2010 decided on 09.09.2010
 [hereinafter, 'SAIL judgment'], wherein the Hon'ble Court specifically noted that
 the Commission discharges inquisitorial, regulatory as well as adjudicatory
 functions. Further, the role of the Commission as a market regulator was
 highlighted in detail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 53. Guided by the legislative mandate and observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, the Commission while dealing with a similar preliminary objection to the
 locus of the Informant in Case No. 97 of 2013 [Reliance Agency And Chemists and
 Druggists Association of Baroda & Others] decided on 04.01.2018, held as under: The Commission is entitled to even proceed suo motu or on any Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 22 of 41 reference being made by the Central Government or State
 Government or any Statutory Authority. Thus, the Commission is
 more concerned with the facts and allegations highlighted in the
 information rather than the locus of the person who provided such
 information. 84. The purpose of the Act is to prevent practices having an adverse
 effect on competition in India, to promote and sustain competition in
 the markets, to protect the interests of consumers and to ensure
 freedom of trade carried on by other participants in the markets.
 Towards that end, the Commission is more concerned with the fair
 functioning of the market and the motives with which the informant
 has come to the Commission is subservient to that objective. [...] 54. Further, in Case No. 05 of 2018 [XYZ (Informants identities' confidential) And
 Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. And Ors.], decided on 04.07.2018, the Commission,
 while comparing the mandate given to it under the Act vis-a-vis the mandate of a
 sectoral regulator, observed as under: competitive conduct in the market. Hence, the powers and duties of
 the Commission are much wider. The proceedings before the
 Commission are inquisitorial in nature and targeted toward overall
 market correction and subsequent effects which may or may not be
 confined to a specific sector. Therefore, any decision by PNGRB
 upon a lis between the parties will be a decision granting relief in
 personam as opposed to a ruling/ action by the Commission which
 is a decision in rem, intended to achieve market correction. The role
 of the two, the Board and the Commission are, thus, different in Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 23 of 41 spirit. The Board, under the PNGRB Act , aims at resolving the
 disputes between the parties upon a complaint filed by an aggrieved
 party. Juxtaposed to this, the Commission aims to regulate the
 market and penalise the market player that is engaging in anti-
 competitive conduct/practice. 55. The judgment of erstwhile Hon'ble Competition Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter,
 'COMPAT'), in Surendra Prasad vs. Competition Commission of India and others
 in Appeal No. 43 of 2014, decided on 15.09.2015, follows the ideology laid down
 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the SAIL judgment and lends strength to the
 approach followed by the Commission in its subsequent orders, as is evident from
 the following excerpts: 56. The aforesaid leads to an inevitable conclusion that the Informant need not
 necessarily be an aggrieved party to file a case before the Commission. Neither the
 Act specifies any such requirement explicitly, nor the same can be implicitly read
 into the provisions which clearly point towards the inquisitorial system envisaged
 by the Parliament. Further, it is because of the inquisitorial scheme of the Act, that
 the Commission in appropriate cases, defends its orders in higher forums,
 regardless of the fact as to who brought such case before it, which is not a normal
 feature in adversarial proceedings. Moreover, given that there are divergent
 decisions of the Hon'ble Appellate forum on the question of locus of the Informant,
 it may not be appropriate for the Opposite Parties to challenge the maintainability
 of the information filed by the Informant, based on the observation in the case of Samir Agarwal case alone. 57. Coming to the second leg of the argument, i.e. that the Informant has indulged in
 forum shopping being closely associated with a petitioner who has approached the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court against WhatsApp and Facebook and this apparent non-
 disclosure reveals the mala fide intent and unclean hands with which the Informant
 has approached the Commission. The Commission notes that though on first blush Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 25 of 41 this argument looks attractive, it may not be factually correct and is legally
 untenable, given the scheme of the Act. 58. The OPs have highlighted that on 28.02.2020, a public interest litigation (PIL)
 petition, Good Governance Chambers vs. National Payments Corporation of India
 and others , W.P. (C) No. 427 of 2020, was filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court,
 identifying both WhatsApp and Facebook as respondents. The OPs have tried to
 draw some linkages between the Informant in the present matter and the Petitioner
 in the PIL filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Further, the Opposite Parties
 have stated that the Informant has approached the 'Commission with unclean
 hands, to the extent the Informant deliberately suppressed and withheld from the
 Commission material information on other pending litigation apparently initiated
 by the Informant and/or those in close association'. 59. The Commission observes that the objection related to Informant's intent has been
 examined by the Commission as well as erstwhile Hon'ble COMPAT in various
 cases in the past. The observations made in all such cases have been succinctly
 covered in the ensuing paragraphs. 60. In Case No. 65/2014, 71/2014, 72/2014 & 68/2015 [Alis Medical Store & Ors. And
 Gujarat Federation of Chemists and Druggists Association & Ors.] decided on
 12.07.2018, the Commission, while dealing with the objection with regard to
 multiple filings by the same informant, held as under: (emphasis supplied) 61. Similar views were reflected in Case No. C-87/2009/DGIR [Vedant Biosciences
 And Chemists and Druggists Association of Baroda] decided on 15.01.2019, the
 Commission observed as under: [...]
 (emphasis supplied) Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 27 of 41 62. Yet again, in Case No. 64 of 2014 [Madhya Pradesh Chemists and Distributors
 Federation (MPCDF) And Madhya Pradesh Chemists and Druggist Association
 (MPCDA) & Others] decided on 03.06.2019, the Commission discarded the claim
 of the opposite parties with regard to mala-fide intention of the informant in that
 matter. The relevant observations are excerpted below: 63. At this stage, the Commission also notes that similar issue, of relevance of the
 intent of the informant, was examined by COMPAT in Surendra Prasad vs.
 Competition Commission of India and others in Appeal No. 43 of 2014, decided
 on 15.09.2015. The relevant excerpts of this judgment have already been
 reproduced earlier, suffice to say that while dealing with the question of 'whether
 the appellant should be non-suited on the ground that he had not approached the
 Commission with clean hands and that he has been representing and espousing the
 cause of M/s. B.S.N. Joshi & Sons Ltd.', the erstwhile Hon'ble COMPAT answered
 in negative. Thus, erstwhile Hon'ble COMPAT affirmed that the fact that the
 informant did not approach the Commission with clean hands is inconsequential as
 far as the maintainability of the information under the Act is concerned. The
 Commission further notes that where the Informant approaches the Commission
 with unclean hands or bases its case on incorrect facts or evidence, there are
 adequate provisions under the Act, to deal with such instances. However, to suggest Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 28 of 41 that such a fact would lead to dismissal of an otherwise maintainable information,
 would be stretching the argument too far. 64. As regards the non-disclosure, the Commission observes that vide Competition
 Commission of India (General) Amendment Regulations, 2019 dated 20.11.2019, Regulation 10 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations,
 2009, was amended so as to require the following disclosure from the informants: 65. The aforesaid amendment requires disclosure regarding pending dispute/litigation
 between the informant and parties. Apparently, the Informant in the present case
 and the petitioner in the PIL filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court are not the
 same. The OPs have tried to draw some linkages, which, in the view of the
 Commission, are not relevant to the facts of the present matter given the
 inquisitorial scheme of the Act. More so, when such a disclosure being a technical
 requirement, and not a factum leading to dismissal of an information, the assertion
 of the OPs that the 'Commission should not consider the present Information on
 the ground of the Informant's unclean hands alone' is not tenable. 66. Based on the aforesaid, the Commission rejects the preliminary objection of the
 OPs as regards the locus of the Informant. Any interpretation contrary to the
 expressive legislative mandate and judicial pronouncements, as elucidated in the
 aforesaid paras, may not be appropriate. 67. Having dealt with the preliminary objection, the Commission will now deal with
 the merits of the case. The Informant has alleged that WhatsApp and Facebook are
 abusing their dominant position under Section 4 of the Act. Specifically, the
 Informant has alleged contravention of Sections 4(2)(a)(i), 4(2)(d) and 4(2)(e) of Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 29 of 41 the Act, by these OPs, besides a brief mention of 4(2)(b)(ii) and 4(2)(c). Primarily,
 the Informant has alleged that WhatsApp has abused its dominance in the 'market
 for internet-based messaging application through smartphones', to manipulate
 another market i.e. 'market for UPI enabled digital payment applications' in its
 favour. This, as per the Informant, has distorted fair competition in the latter market
 for the existing players and has foreclosed the said market to potential entrants. 68. For examining the allegations pertaining to Section 4 of the Act, delineation of the
 relevant market is essential to ascertain dominance and for analyzing the alleged
 abusive conduct of the OPs. 69. The Informant has proposed two relevant product markets as mentioned in para 16
 supra. The first market has been proposed as 'market for internet-based messaging
 application through smartphones'. WhatsApp on the other hand has claimed that
 it competes in an overall broader 'market for user attention'. 70. The Commission observes that WhatsApp and Facebook are third-party apps
 broadly providing internet-based consumer communications services. Consumer
 communications services can be sub-segmented based on different parameters e.g.
 on the basis of functionality, some apps enable real-time communication in various
 forms, such as voice and multimedia messaging, video chat, group chat, voice call,
 sharing of location, etc., while others provide services such as communication with
 a wider set of people in an impersonal setting such as sharing status and posts.
 Further, while some consumer communications apps are proprietary in nature, i.e.
 available on only one operating system such as FaceTime and iMessage service
 available on Apple's iPhones, while others operate as over-the-top ('OTT') apps
 offered for download on multiple operating systems, e.g. WhatsApp and Facebook
 are available on a variety of mobile operating systems, including iOS, Android,
 Windows Phone etc. Furthermore, the segmentation can also be based on whether
 a set of consumer communications apps are available for all types of devices, or
 only for particular type(s) of device e.g. while Facebook is available on Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 30 of 41 smartphones as well as PCs, WhatsApp essentially is a smartphone app. Having
 said that the Commission is cognizant of the peculiar features which these
 consumer communication apps possess, where for some functions they may appear
 substitutable while not so for others, making it all the more challenging to
 compartmentalize them into water-tight categories. Thus, it is important to identify
 the primary or most dominant feature(s) of an app to categorise it into a particular
 relevant market. 71. WhatsApp is primarily an Over-The-Top (OTT) messaging App, linked to a
 smartphone device and mobile number, which has features of communicating
 personally, both one-to-one or group. It uses the internet to send and receive text
 messages, images, audio or video content, sharing of location etc. from one user to
 another as opposed to the mobile network used for traditional texting/SMSing. 72. Facebook, on the other hand, is a social networking app which connects many users
 simultaneously. The users can post text, photos and multimedia which is visible to
 all those other users whom they have agreed to be their 'friend' or with a different
 privacy setting, with any other user. Users can also use various embedded apps,
 join common-interest groups, receive notifications of their Facebook friends'
 activities etc. 73. Thus, even within the OTT consumer communication services market, services
 provided by OTT service providers may not be substitutable. One of the economic
 tools widely used by competition authorities for gauging substitutability and for
 defining relevant market in traditional markets is the SSNIP (Small but Significant
 Non-transitory Increase in Price) Test. However, given that 'price' is the most
 significant consideration for application of SSNIP Test, it may be difficult to
 contextualise substitutability from SSNIP point of view for OTT communication
 Apps as they do not levy monetary charge on the users. 74. Notwithstanding the above, from a simple functional substitutability point of view,
 WhatsApp and Facebook fall in different markets as the services provided by them
 do not appear to be functionally substitutable. The Commission, therefore, does not
 find the broad market, i.e. 'market for user attention', proposed by WhatsApp to
 be the relevant product market for the purposes of assessment in the present case. 75. Taking into consideration these features and the different parameters cited supra,
 yet not being overly influenced by strict compartmentalisation, the Commission is
 of the view that the relevant product market in which WhatsApp operates is the
 'market for Over-The-Top (OTT) messaging apps through smartphones'. The
 Commission observes that though in terms of nomenclature this relevant product
 market appears different from the one proposed by the Informant, it largely covers
 the same set of players and competition dynamics. 76. As regards the geographic market, the Commission agrees with the Informant that
 the functionality of OTT messaging apps through smartphones does not differ
 depending upon the region or country concerned, either in terms of price,
 functionality or operating system. However, the competitive conditions, regulatory
 architecture and players may vary in different countries/regions. Since conditions
 for competition are homogenous in India, the geographic area of India has been
 taken as the relevant geographic market for the purposes of assessment.
 Accordingly, the first relevant market would be 'market for Over-The-Top (OTT)
 messaging apps through smartphones in India'. 77. The Informant has alleged that WhatsApp is dominant in this market and has
 leveraged such dominance to take advantage in another market i.e. 'market for UPI
 enabled digital payment applications in India'. 78. The UPI enabled Digital Payment Apps also work as third-party apps (not the
 banking entities) enabling instant transfer of funds (in the form of IMPS) between
 users having subscribed to the Apps on their smartphones and having access to Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 32 of 41 internet. This is a new technology infrastructure that existing bank apps can
 integrate with, in order to facilitate easy transfer of funds and other monetary
 transactions between two people in a secure and convenient manner. Further, these
 UPI enabled Digital Payment Apps, e.g. PayTM, Google Pay, Phone Pe etc., allow
 several value-added features besides traditional transfer of funds, such as
 integrating payment for utilities, mobile bills, purchasing train tickets, air tickets,
 movie tickets and thus, provide services which are distinct and which may not be
 substituted with any other mode of payment such as debit cards, credit cards, net
 banking, etc. Thus, the Commission agrees with the Informant that the second
 relevant market for assessing the allegations of the Informant would be 'market for
 UPI enabled Digital Payments Apps in India'. 79. The Informant has claimed that WhatsApp holds a dominant position in the first
 relevant market based on the various parameters provided under section 19(4) of
 the Act. WhatsApp has primarily objected to such claims by proposing a broader
 relevant market, which would automatically lead to dilution of WhatsApp's market
 power. Further, WhatsApp has also objected to the reliance placed by the Informant
 on newspaper reports to demonstrate the huge user base WhatsApp, along with its
 group entities, possess. Facebook has averred that it is a distinct entity and while
 assessing WhatsApp's dominance, any alleged strengths of Facebook cannot be
 attributed to WhatsApp. 80. At the outset, the Commission observes that Facebook and WhatsApp are group
 entities and though they may operate in separate relevant markets, their strengths
 can be attributed to each-others' positioning in the respective markets in which
 they operate. Thus, as per the scheme of Section 4 of the Act, WhatsApp's market
 position has been assessed keeping in consideration its affiliation to Facebook and
 several other group entities (e.g. Instagram) which are part of the same group. 81. In the relevant market delineated by the Commission, i.e. 'market for OTT
 messaging apps through smartphones in India', the major OTT messaging Apps
 appear to be WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Hike, WeChat, SnapChat etc. The
 Informant has primarily relied on absolute number of users to submit that
 WhatsApp had a high market share in the relevant market. 82. The data provided by the Informant on market shares has been primarily taken from
 'Digital 2020' reports published by 'We are Social' in partnership with
 'Hootsuite', a social media management system, and the said report claims to have
 taken data from various sources, including GlobalWebIndex, Statista, GSMA
 Intelligence, App Annie, SimilarWeb and Locowise. 83. While it may not be easy to ascertain the denominator or the market size to
 calculate precise market shares in this particular market as most consumers are
 using multiple apps for messaging at the same time, the data relied upon by the
 Informant gives some indication of the most used Apps and most used messaging
 OTT Apps based on the percentage of internet users aged between 16 and 64 in
 January 2020. 84. Such data shows that WhatsApp messenger is the most widely used app for social
 messaging, followed by Facebook Messenger in the relevant market delineated by
 the Commission supra. Further, it is way ahead of other messaging apps like
 Snapchat, WeChat etc. showing its relative strength. Given that WhatsApp
 messenger and Facebook Messenger are owned by the same group, they do not
 seem to be constrained by each other, rather adding on to their combined strength
 as a group. Moreover, WhatsApp Messenger works on direct network effects where
 an increase in usage of a particular platform leads to a direct increase in the value
 for other users--and the value of a platform to a new user will depend on the
 number of existing users on that platform. Thus, given its popularity and wide
 usage, for one-to-one as well as group communications and its distinct and unique
 features, WhatsApp seems to be dominant. 85. The Commission is cognizant that the data relied upon by the Informant cannot be
 said to be free from infirmities and is based on global usage or users. However, in
 the absence of concrete data/information available in the Indian context other than
 the subjective information on popularity of WhatsApp, the Commission is of the
 view that these trends and results can be used as a proxy. More so, these trends
 appear to be intuitively in sync with the information available in public domain,
 which though does not confirm market share/strength of WhatsApp in any
 quantitative terms, nevertheless point towards its dominance. 86. Further, with respect to the dependence of consumers on the enterprise and
 countervailing buyer power, WhatsApp undeniably has the advantage of reaping
 the benefits of network effect. Network effect in turn ensures that customers do not
 switch to other platforms easily unless there is a new competitor entering the
 market with an altogether disruptive technology. Moreover, lack of interoperability
 between platforms is another concern, as a result of which customers may be
 unwilling to incur switching costs, despite the same being primarily psychological. 87. As regards the barriers to entry, they may arise indirectly as a result of the networks
 effects enjoyed by the dominant player in the market, i.e. WhatsApp, in the present
 case. Since networks effects lead to increased switching costs, new players may be
 disincentivized from entering the market. 88. Thus, in view of the aforementioned factors, the Commission prima facie finds
 WhatsApp to be dominant in the first relevant market i.e. 'market for OTT
 messaging apps through smartphones in India'. 89. With regard to abusive conduct, the Informant's main allegations stem from the
 pre-installation of WhatsApp's payment app namely 'WhatsApp Pay' on its users'
 smartphones embedded within the WhatsApp messenger app. This automatic Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 35 of 41 installation of the Payment option into the Messenger App is alleged to have
 resulted in the contravention of following provisions: 90. The Commission observes that the aforesaid allegations of the Informant are in the
 nature of both exploitative as well as exclusionary abuses flowing from the same
 conduct. On the exploitative side, the Informant is aggrieved that the users of
 WhatsApp Messenger have been imposed with another App 'WhatsApp Pay' to
 which they did not subscribe or download [Section 4(2)(a)(i)] and since these two
 apps operate in two different markets, the tying of the latter with the former is anti-
 competitive [Section 4(2)(d)]. On the exclusionary side, it has been alleged that
 this conduct distorts another market i.e. 'market for UPI enabled digital payment
 applications in India'. 91. As regards Section 4(2)(a)(i), the Commission does not find much merit in the
 allegation of the Informant as mere existence of an App on the smartphone does
 not necessarily convert into transaction/usage. As highlighted by WhatsApp in its
 written submissions, to enable WhatsApp payment, the user has to separately
 register for it which necessarily requires the users to accept terms of the service
 agreement and privacy policy. Such registration requires providing additional
 information and undertaking additional steps to link their bank account, as per the
 NPCI laid down framework for UPI digital payment apps. As such, no transaction Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 36 of 41 can be completed without the user taking these necessary voluntary steps.
 Incorporating the payment option in the messaging app does not seem to influence
 a consumer's choice when it comes to exercising their preference in terms of app
 usage, particularly since there seems to be a strong likelihood of a status quo bias
 operating in favour of the incumbents, at present. WhatsApp has also categorically
 ensured, in its written statement, that the users will continue to have full discretion
 whether to use WhatsApp Pay app or not, which implies that the users will have an
 option to use any other payment apps which might already have been downloaded
 on their smartphones. Thus, in the absence of any explicit or implicit imposition
 which takes away this discretion, the mere integration does not seem to contravene Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. 92. As regards the allegation under Section 4(2)(d) of the Act, the Commission
 observes that though the Informant has used the word 'bundling', the nature of such
 allegation is more akin to 'tying' as understood in the antirust context generally.
 While 'tying' refers to a practice whereby the seller of a product or service ('tying
 product') requires the buyers to also purchase another separate product or service
 ('tied product'), which essentially is the allegation of the Informant; 'bundling'
 typically means that the two products are sold by the seller in a fixed proportion as
 a bundled package at a particular price. 93. The economic literature, as well as the decisions by other competition authorities,
 has laid down certain conditions which need to be fulfilled to conclude a case of
 tying. Such conditions are (i) the tying and tied products are two separate products; (ii) the entity concerned is dominant in the market for the tying product; (iii) the
 customers or consumer does not have a choice to only obtain the tying product
 without the tied product; and (iv) the tying is capable of restricting/foreclosing
 competition in the market. 94. WhatsApp, in its submissions dated 11.06.2020, has submitted that none of these
 conditions are met. It has been stated that WhatsApp Pay is not a separate product, Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 37 of 41 but only a value-added feature to the WhatsApp messenger service; thus, first
 condition is not met. Also, WhatsApp is not dominant and since there is no
 compulsion on the users to necessarily use WhatsApp Pay in order to use
 WhatsApp messenger service, the second and third conditions are also not met.
 Lastly, it has been stated by WhatsApp that there is no anti-competitive effect of
 offering WhatsApp Pay. 95. The Commission does not fully agree with the submissions of WhatsApp in this
 regard. Clearly WhatsApp Messenger and WhatsApp Pay are two distinct products
 with different functionalities, they are in fact in two separate relevant markets, as
 has been elucidated by the Commission supra. It has also been prima facie held
 above that WhatsApp is the dominant player in the relevant market, i.e. 'market for
 OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India'. Thus, the first two conditions
 seem to have been met in the present case, and to this extent, the Commission does
 not agree with the submissions made by WhatsApp. 96. On the third condition, i.e. whether there is any compulsion/coercion on the users
 to necessarily purchase/use the tied product in order to use the tying product, the
 Commission observes that WhatsApp has submitted that 'WhatsApp users do not
 "automatically" or "mandatorily" have to use the WhatsApp Pay feature, but
 rather retain full discretion on whether or not to use WhatsApp and the WhatsApp
 Pay feature'. While WhatsApp Pay is embedded in WhatsApp messenger app
 when it is downloaded by users on their smartphones, the consumers are at freewill
 to use WhatsApp Pay or any other UPI enabled digital payments app in India to
 make instant interbank transfers. Installation of the WhatsApp messenger does not
 appear to explicitly mandate/coerce the user to use WhatsApp Pay exclusively or
 to influence the consumer choice implicitly in any other manner, at present. Thus,
 the third condition does not seem to have been established. 97. Lastly, as regards the fourth condition, i.e. the actual or likely impact of installation
 on competition in the market for tied product, the Commission observes that at Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 38 of 41 present, the UPI digital payments market consists of various established players
 e.g. Google Pay, PayTM, Phone Pe, Amazon Pay etc. which are backed by big
 companies/investors. In an already evolving market, these players seem to be
 vigorously competing, as is evident from offers/discounts/incentives offered by
 them to their users, apparent from the newspaper reports relied upon by the
 Informant. In such a market, to perceive that WhatsApp Pay will automatically get
 a considerable market share only on the basis of its pre-installation seems
 implausible. Besides, the Commission also observes that WhatsApp Pay had got
 approvals to act as a payment app in India in February 2020 in beta version, and
 only recently, it seems to have complied with the data localisation norms stipulated
 by NPCI to operate fully. Thus, its actual conduct is yet to manifest in the market.
 Also, as stated by WhatsApp, the number of users being served under the beta
 version is limited to less than 1% of its users in India. To that extent, the
 Commission tends to agree with WhatsApp that this allegation is premature.
 Accordingly, the fourth condition also does not seem to have been met. 98. For the foregoing reasons, the Commission is of the view that the allegation of the
 Informant under Section 4(2)(d) of the Act is not made out. 99. As regards the allegation of leveraging, the Commission does not agree with the
 Informant for reasons cited supra while dealing with the allegation under Section
 4(2)(d) of the Act. The Informant has contended that WhatsApp will leverage its
 dominance in the upstream market to have a competitive edge over the existing
 competitors. The Informant also seems to be distressed by the fact that while the
 other existing players spent considerable resources to establish themselves in the
 UPI enabled digital payment app market, WhatsApp will get users on its platter
 without making any efforts. The apprehensions of the Informant, according to
 Commission, does not really hold much merit. As stated above, the UPI market is
 quite established with renowned players competing vigorously. In such a market,
 it seems implausible that WhatsApp Pay will automatically garner a market share Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 39 of 41 merely on account of its pre-installation. More so, given the fact that WhatsApp
 ecosystem does not involve paid services as such for normal users, it seems
 unlikely that the consumer traffic will be diverted by WhatsApp using its strength
 in the messenger market. Thus, this allegation under Section 4(2)(e) of the Act also
 does not seem to be made out. 100. Besides the aforesaid allegations, the Informant has also alleged misuse of data by
 the OPs, comprising Facebook as the parent entity and WhatsApp and other group
 entities acquired by it, to their commercial advantage at the cost of causing an
 adverse effect on the competition. The Informant has also referred to some ongoing
 litigations against Facebook on its anti-competitive activities and driving out
 competition in the US and EU. The Informant has specifically highlighted the issue
 of using consumer sensitive data by the OPs to their commercial advantage through
 targeted advertising. The OPs have submitted that the Informant has falsely
 claimed that WhatsApp automatically shares WhatsApp Pay user data with
 Facebook for use in targeted advertisements and that this claim does not raise any
 competition concern and need not be looked into by the Commission. 101. The Commission observes that Facebook and WhatsApp undeniably deal with
 customer sensitive data which is amenable to misuse and may raise potential
 antitrust concerns among other data protection issues. However, in the present
 case, the Informant has only alleged that WhatsApp/Facebook have access to data
 which they are using for doing targeted advertising. There is neither any concrete
 allegation, nor any specific information to support the competition concern of the
 Informant. In the absence thereof, there is nothing on record which the Commission
 can examine. 102. The Informant has also claimed that WhatsApp is in serious non-compliance of
 critical and mandatory procedural norms pertaining to data localisation and storage.
 The Informant has also raised concerns with data security. These, in the considered Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 40 of 41 view of the Commission, do not seem to raise any competition concern and as such
 may not need any further scrutiny by it. 103. Based on the aforesaid, the Commission does not find alleged contravention of the
 provisions of Section 4 of the Act against WhatsApp or Facebook being made out.
 In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that there exists no
 prima facie case of contravention and the information filed is directed to be closed
 under Section 26(2) of the Act. 104. The Secretary is directed to inform the parties accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Kumar Gupta)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Sangeeta Verma)
 Member

 Sd/- (Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi)
 Member

 New Delhi
 Date: 18-08-2020 Case No. 15 of 2020 Page 41 of 41