SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Major Theft Gang in Operation in Mumbai, India people need to be aware of! And Police is doing NOTHING! Need Media Coverage for this!
DATE: 2018-10-21
SCORE: 91
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/9q5sgi/major_theft_gang_in_operation_in_mumbai_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

Please be careful with your belongings when you go for Marathon in India. Especially Mumbai. So I have had 2 instances with 2 close relatives of mine who have had their phone stolen from their car parked inside shopping mall in the basement or designated parking area.
This is what happened :
My brother went for IDBI Marathon event last month. Since he had his iPhone with him and wallet he decided to keep it in his car glove compartment. And went for the marathon (10km). During his running time some unknown men went and broke multiple car windows and stole the phones and the wallets of many people. The thief then took all the cash from the wallets and went straight to the ATM and with multiple debit cards withdrew cash from multiple debit cards of different people. Since OTP is gone to the phone which in this case was with the thief he could easily steal the cash. In my cousins case thief withdrew a big amount. They were very organised. Because there has been 3 cases separate from this one. And maybe more! Then once all was done the thief put all wallets in one bag and put it inside the last car from whom he stole. Police are total failure! They are not trained for such matters. They have the footage showing the man. They also have the thief’s car number through which he came. They also have multiple footage’s from the ATM. All those whose phones were stolen also used their iCloud and Google Anti Theft feature to get the locations but still police couldn’t find the phone. It’s been almost a month since this has happened and still phone is nowhere to be found. In the end iCloud or Google find my phone feature is not at all feasible for India. If Police cannot catch these people even after multiple evidences like having location of the phone and having the person identity and car number then no doubt terrorist roam scot free. I suspect the Police to be part of this Gang where they get the share of profit on sale of such phones because had it been Police of USA they could have easily tracked and caught the gang. Our Police is very inefficient. I am not blaming Police because I know they are not training in this which I think they should. But like normal human being I feel not all police are bad but many are. And in this case no one knows how far corruption has creeped in in the department. This is quite possible. But I don’t know. It’s just what I feel.

The other cousin of mine had also got his phone stolen in similar manner. This happened 3-4 months back. He too didn’t get his phone back even after all the proofs etc. He still gets calls from police what to do. Whether to close the case or continue to search for it. My cousin was like of course search for it. 

PS : All I would like is to spread awareness to everyone of you. Also if anyone working in Newspaper need to write this article so that this information is available to everyone. At least via News or Newspaper people will know what to do if they are running for Marathon how to secure their phone and wallet.