Deceptive or dark patterns in online commerce have become the talk of the town lately. As of April 2024, India had a total internet user base of 954.4 million. While some people recognise these manipulative tactics, comprehending their full scope still remains a challenge. With the Consumer Affairs Ministry launching a formal investigation into e-commerce platforms for allegedly deploying dark patterns, the outcome of the probe will likely set an important precedent, especially as cash-on-delivery (CoD) is the go-to mode of payment for users outside Tier I cities.

Platforms found to violate dark pattern guidelines could face strict action under the Consumer Protection Act, ranging from monetary penalties to more stringent disclosure norms. It will be interesting to see if the Central Government comes up with new guidelines directing e-commerce apps to make changes to their interface, as dark patterns are not isolated or accidental features. Instead, they are embedded into the user journey of many apps, aiming to influence their behaviour at the expense of transparency.

The government’s draft guidelines for e-commerce platforms, released in January, stated that these platforms must clearly display relevant information, including product description, price breakdowns, return policies, among other details.

However, companies like Amazon and Flipkart often hide surcharges until checkout, manipulating users into spending more than what they originally intended. With this practice increasingly becoming a norm, urgent regulatory action against such platforms is the need of the hour.

The Central government has launched a probe into e-commerce platforms for allegedly charging customers extra for CoD orders. In a post on X, Consumer Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said such charges have been classified as a “dark pattern” that misleads buyers and violates consumer rights.

“A detailed investigation has been initiated and steps are being taken to scrutinize these platforms closely. Strict action will be taken against those violating consumer rights to ensure transparency and uphold fair practices in India’s growing e-commerce sector,” the post further reads.

The Department of Consumer Affairs has received complaints against e-commerce platforms charging extra for Cash-on-Delivery, a practice classified as a dark pattern that misleads and exploits consumers. A detailed investigation has been initiated and steps are being taken to… https://t.co/gEf5WClXJX

Joshi’s comments came in response to an X post alleging that Flipkart often imposes hidden or misleading fees under different categories — such as “offer handling fee”, “payment handling fee”, and “protect promise fee”.

Major e-commerce platforms, including Amazon, Flipkart and Myntra, among others, have been adding a fee of Rs 7 to Rs 10 per order when a customer opts for CoD instead of prepaid methods.

Flipkart has started levying a Rs 5 handling fee for CoD orders, citing operational costs. Rival Amazon also charges a convenience fee on bill payments. In the past, customers have also complained about hidden charges such as platform fees, packaging costs and rain fee on food delivery platforms such as Zomato and Swiggy.

The ministry’s move comes amid growing consumer complaints accusing e-commerce platforms such as Flipkart, Amazon and Myntra of adding non-transparent charges at checkout.

Last month, MediaNama reported on how these companies were using deceptive digital practices — from Flipkart’s iPhone “deals” to Amazon’s refund delays and Myntra’s countdown tricks — hiding costs of the order until the last step.

Such tactics are being increasingly used by online commerce companies to trick users into unintended actions, such as spending more money and sharing their personal data, and compromising users’ online privacy and security. To put things in perspective, creating fake urgency with claims like ‘only 1 left’, or hiding fees that appear only at checkout, are considered dark patterns.

Flipkart is charging a “ Protect Promise ” fee of Rs 99 on an order of the Apple 2025 iPad (A16) 128 GB variant; the additional fee is for “secure packaging and open box verification”

An August 2024 report by the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) found that 52 out of 53 studied apps in India exhibited at least one deceptive dark pattern. These ranged from basket sneaking and confirm shaming to subscription trap and disguised apps. Interestingly, nine out of 12 dark patterns were observed in the travel and booking industry, followed by delivery and logistics (eight out of 12).

For context, basket sneaking means adding unwanted items to a user’s online shopping cart without their explicit consent, while confirm shaming translates to using guilt or social pressure to manipulate users into confirming an action. Furthermore, subscription trap means deceiving users into subscribing to a recurring service, and disguised apps means showing ads as editorial/organic content that blends in with the rest of interface.

The Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) had also released guidelines in November 2023 identifying 13 types of dark patterns like drip pricing, basket sneaking, and confirm shaming.

However, it removed Clause 8 from the notified version. This clause, which had appeared in the draft version, had stated that the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, would apply in case of any guideline violations.

For context, drip pricing means revealing additional fees gradually throughout the purchase process to make the product price higher than what was originally quoted.

The investigation into dark patterns related to CoD charges comes at a time when the CCPA is cracking down on companies for alleged manipulative digital practices.

On October 3, CCPA imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on coaching institute Drishti IAS for publishing misleading advertisements on the results of the Union Public Service Commission’s (UPSC) civil services examination (CSE) conducted in 2022.

While Drishti IAS claimed over 216 selections in UPSC CSE 2022 in its advertisement, CCPA’s investigation revealed that out of the 216 candidates, 162 had only taken the free Interview Guidance Programme, after independently clearing the preliminary and mains stages of UPSC CSE.

In August this year, the regulator slapped ride-hailing company Rapido with a fine of Rs 10 lakh for publishing misleading advertisements. Authorities have warned that such behaviour amounts to an unfair trade practice under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.

And earlier in June this year, the Department of Consumer Affairs set up a 19-member Joint Working Group to tackle the growing menace of dark patterns. Elsewhere in an advisory, the CCPA asked e-commerce platforms to self-audit their interfaces.

And on May 28 , Joshi met representatives from Amazon, Swiggy, Zomato, Flipkart, MakeMyTrip, Meta, WhatsApp, Apple, and others in New Delhi, asking these companies to stop using dark patterns and fall in line with the CCPA guidelines.

Notably in December 2024, the Central Government rolled out the Jago Grahak Jago app, the Jagriti app and the Jagriti dashboard to equip the Department of Consumer Affairs to identify dark patterns on e-commerce platforms and protect consumer rights.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event