SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [TW - SU] Targeted stalking, electronic survellience
DATE: 2022-06-04
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/v4mltp/tw_su_targeted_stalking_electronic_survellience/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a veteran here but using a throwaway. Excuse the typos but I am in a very bad situation. For many weeks the following has been happening in the place I live which is a gated society (it is kind of a remote place in NCR, I own the apartment and have been living here for about 2 years)

1. It started with all my devices , laptops, email accounts, a website being hacked and things started escalating. I had suspicion on my ISP, and hence got it changed to a more reputed mainstream one Airtel rather than the local one. Im tech savy and could figure out there is something going on. 
2. After Airtel was installed, again after sometime my LAN was hacked and all devices got infected and I think it could have been a VPNfilter virus/malware (check about this online), or DNS manipulation. I later remidied it in Wifi web management console to DNS resolve to cloudflare one
3. I noticed there have been cars parked at a vantage point so they can have a clear view of my apartment even though its a high rise and I stay on top flor. They have been either coordinating covertly or intentionally to intimidate me by passing on pattern - based honk signals and car remote sound (beep beep)
4. Ive heard of covert survellience but now it's become so obvious that its no longer covert but is surmounting to targeted harrashment and bullying plus phone tapping, simjacking, etc
5. Number of cars like 10-20, hve been trying to stalk be and over time I've confirmed this is 100% stalking, and some cars have fake licensce plates (no "IND" mandatory emblem and barcode thingy etc). These are out of state cars from PB, MH, RJ etc
6. One day a lady fought with me in the garden where I walk my dog so badly and rudely and cussed me reaaly really bad in all sorts of offensive words in hindi but I didn't retaliate
7. I have been in touch with Airtel and apple supporyt but no resolution
8. I am supposed to file a cybercell complaint but have been sooooo stressed and exhausted for a month now dont eat or sleep just keep trying to fix things
9. I'm a loner and live alone with my dog
10. I am crying as I write this plus I also have an illness cant openly write here
11. Are there any lawyers who can give advice how should I go about this? Ive fought very hard but now reach the tip and now I am suicidal .... it's not a pity call. 
12. My work has been affected big time with missed days and ive told and send every evidence to my manager and HR. 

This is some NSA level hacking which has screwed up the iphone badly ....ALL ASPECTS OF MY LIFE are rorn and I need help from someone who has authority over how can I go about this

I would really appreciate if an empatheic lawyer or someone can DM me for advice and ask questions if needed. I'm ok to pay as thanks to the universe I don't have financial issuesl. 

it's killingf me to see my dog so so sad as it has broken her soul too

I've had a very bad past and childhood but have a sucessful career and had been doing great right now my spirit is broken all confidence gone , no privacy at home i dont feel at home i am sickk of this house i hate it. 

There are some spiritual aspects to it also which I cant disclose here and this house has been a hell 

Ive survuived 14 Suicide attempts in life, if the 15th one is the time for my soul to be realsed my dog will be dead soul wise. 

My company knows everything and I am compelled to use the office laptop for this, as my devices have been ruined