The Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted searches at three premises of BYJU’s or ‘Think & Learn Private Limited’, Raveendran Byju’s company, in Bengaluru on April 29 under the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), the ED informed in a press release .

The ED also informed that they found “various incriminating documents and digital data” from the company’s offices and that the company received foreign direct investment (FDI) to the tune of about Rs 28,000 crore during 2011-2023.

Key points raised by ED:

According to Inc42 , BYJU’S released its FY21 statements in September 2022, after an 18-month delay. It is yet to file the results for the year that ended on March 31, 2022.

Why it matters:

The ED’s raid indicates a serious problem with the financial operations of India’s ed-tech giant, especially at a time when the company has already been in news for incurring losses , laying off employees, and facing a debt crisis . The company has been under the scanner for its unethical advertising and sales practices for a while now. Complaints regarding discrepancies in BYJU’s financial reports have been reported in the past too. As the ed-tech firm faces investigations by regulators like the ED and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on multiple charges, concerns about the company’s credibility ultimately impact the millions of consumers who have bought the company’s courses.

What did BYJU’s say:

BYJU’s issued a statement saying that the company has been transparent with the authorities in terms of information disclosure and that it will cooperate with the procedure.

“The recent visit by officials from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bangalore was related to a routine inquiry under FEMA,” the statement read. The company also said that it is “business as usual” at BYJU’S.

Unaddressed financial loopholes:

In July 2022, member of Parliament Karti P Chidambaram, who has written about BYJU’s unethical business practices several times, called for a Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) review into the company’s financial statements.

Chidambaram, in his letter, cited different news reports highlighting inconsistencies and discrepancies in the company’s financial filings to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. The lawmaker also raised questions about how the company raised funds from different ventures and its investment deals.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event