The Reserve Bank of India has started maintaining provisional data of fraudulent transactions using Mobile Wallets and PPI Cards (together called PPI’s), and last week, Ravi Shankar Prasad, the Minister for IT, disclosed in Parliament that the fraud rate for Mobile Wallets and PPI Cards ranged between 0.005% to 0.007% for the months of March, April and May 2017. According to MediaNama’s calculations, that means thatÂ between 48,620 and 68,068 fraudulent transactions were reported for that three month period. Our calculations:

Keep in mind two things: Firstly, PPI Cards are largely used offline transactions and most areÂ not available for online transactions. Secondly, Mobile wallets account for a significantly high proportion of PPI transactions: from 87%-91%. Thus we wouldn’t be surprised if all these issues have arisen in case of Mobile Wallets, even though we have no data available. Prasad could, and should, have shared more granular data with Parliament. He was responding to a question from MP Naresh Agrawal from the Samajwadi Party in the Rajya Sabha .

Prasad also disclosed that the total number of cases of fraud involving credit cards, ATM/Debit cards and Internet banking during the years 2015-16 (16,468) and 2016- 17 (13653). What isÂ not clear from thisÂ is whether these numbers include ATM fraud or not. Again, Prasad could have shared more granular data with Parliament.

Still, based on available RBI data, we’ve calculated possible percentage fraud, which should help with comparison with Wallets:

Thus, if we compare with Debit Card and Credit Card transactions (including at ATMs)Â number of frauds using PPIs (Wallets + PPI Cards) is substantially higher. If we only take into account point of sales transactions, then fraud transactions using wallets are lower. Note that the above figures are only indicative, since we don’t have data in Internet Banking in India.

What the data also tells you is that Wallets appear to be outpacing Debit and Credit card usage at point of sales terminals.

Between November 2016 and June 2017:

Â

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event