1. For the reasons stated in the application, requirement of service of
 advance notice on the defendants is waived. 2. The application stands allowed and disposed of. I.A. 2899/2021 ( Section 151 CPC) 1. Subject to the plaintiffs filing legible copies of any dim documents, on
 which they seek to place reliance within a period of four weeks from today,
 exemption is granted for the present. 2. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 2898/2021 (Order XI Rule 1 (4) CPC ) 1. Subject to the right of the defendants to admit or deny the same, the
 plaintiffs are permitted to file additional documents, as they may so choose
 under a cover of an appropriate affidavit within a period of four weeks from
 today. 2. The application stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 95/2021 1. Issue summons in the suit to the defendants, returnable on 29th April,
 2021 before the Joint Registrar for completion of pleadings, admission and
 denial of documents and marking of exhibits. 2. The Defendant No. 1 has been accorded a fictitious name "Ashok
 Kumar", being the normally used Indian equivalent of "John Doe". 3. Service on Defendant No. 1 would be effected at the 13 email IDs
 reflected in the memo of parties being i. [email protected] , ii. [email protected] , iii. [email protected] , iv. [email protected] , v. [email protected] , vi. [email protected] , vii. [email protected] , viii. [email protected] , ix. [email protected] , x. [email protected] , xi. [email protected] , xii. [email protected] and xiii. [email protected] as
 well as by whatsapp at the telephone numbers provided in the memo of
 parties where whatsapp accounts are available. Service would additionally
 be effected at two postal addresses of Defendant No. 1, which though the
 plaintiffs state that they are fraudulent and have been represented by
 Defendant No. 1 at which he may be contacted. Notice be also additionally
 served on Defendant Nos. 2 to 15 at the email IDs as well as by whatsapp at
 the telephone numbers provided in the memo of parties. 4. Notice be served on the remaining defendants by ordinary process as
 well as by email at the email IDs provided in the memo of parties. 5. Report of service along with proof thereof be placed on record before
 the next date of hearing. 6. Mr. Vakul Sharma, learned counsel for Defendant No. 16, accepts
 notice. 7. Written statement, if any, be filed within a period of four weeks
 accompanied by affidavit of admission and denial of the documents filed by
 the plaintiffs with advance copy to learned counsel for the plaintiffs, who
 may file replication thereto, if any, within a period of two weeks thereof
 accompanied by affidavit of admission and denial of the documents filed by
 the defendants. I.A. 2897/2021 ( Order XI Rule 2 CPC ) 1. Issue notice to the defendants, returnable on 29th April, 2021 before
 the Joint Registrar. 2. Mr. Vakul Sharma, learned counsel for Defendant No. 16, accepts
 notice. 3. Response to this application, if any, be filed within a period of four
 weeks from today with advance copy to learned counsel for the plaintiffs,
 who may file rejoinder thereto, if any, within a period of two weeks thereof. I.A. 2896/2021 (Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC ) 1. Issue notice to the defendants, returnable on 18th May, 2021 before
 the Court. 2. Mr. Vakul Sharma, learned counsel for Defendant No. 16, accepts
 notice. 3. Response to this application, if any, be filed within a period of four
 weeks from today with advance copy to learned counsel for the plaintiffs,
 who may file rejoinder thereto, if any, within a period of two weeks thereof. 4. Mr. Pravin Anand, learned counsel for the plaintiffs, prays for ex-
 parte ad interim reliefs, in terms of the prayer contained in this application. The prayer clause, in this application, reads thus: AND
 Any further orders which this Hon'ble Court deems fit and proper in
 the facts and circumstances of the proceedings." 5. According to the plaintiffs, Defendant Nos. 1 to 15 indulged in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 95/2021 Page 7 of 23 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:01.03.2021 21:34:38 fraudulent misrepresentation, duping customers to believe that they
 represent the plaintiffs and are authorised to induct franchisees for the
 plaintiffs' business. They are also using plaintiffs' trademark and trade
 name without due authorization, thereby resulting in infringement thereof.
 They are also passing off their activities as those of the plaintiffs. 6. Plaintiff No. 1 is a well-known entity, engaged in manufacture and
 distribution of Ayurvedic medicaments and preparations, under the name
 "HIMALAYA". Several of the plaintiffs' products, such as Liv. 52,
 Cystone, Bonnisan and Rumalaya Forte, have become well-known
 household names, and are used by cognoscenti and laity alike, to admirable
 therapeutic effect. 7. It is claimed that, in 2001, the entire range of the plaintiffs' products
 were unified under the "HIMALAYA" brand and that in 2014, the plaintiffs
 established the Himalaya Global Research Centre at Dubai. The plaintiffs'
 logo, which is implied by the plaintiffs in several variations, is essentially as
 under: 8. The plaintiffs points out that its logo has the following distinctive
 features: 9. The aforesaid logo, it is submitted, has, over a period of time, attained
 a status of a visual definition of the plaintiffs' brand identity, and has also
 attained a secondary meaning, being identified with the products of the
 plaintiffs, by the public. 10. The plaintiffs further avers that they have a well established process
 for appointing business partners and that they do not solicit and collect any
 fee, and have not authorized any agency to collect any fee from persons,
 who seek to become franchisees of the plaintiffs. 11. Paras 14 to 17 of the plaint set out the various achievements and
 testimonials to the plaintiffs' credit, on the basis of which, it is averred, in
 para 18, that the "HIMALAYA" brand acquired, as already noted
 hereinabove, a secondary meaning, by long standing and uninterrupted
 usage, and is indelibly identified with the products of the plaintiffs. 12. Paras 20 and 21 of the plaint set out the gross sales figures of the
 plaintiffs from 1997-1998 (₹ 124.99 crores) to 2018-2019 (₹ 2840 crores).
 The advertising and promotional expenses of the plaintiffs are also
 tabulated, in para 21 of the plaint, from the year 1997-1998 (₹ 8.90 crores) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 95/2021 Page 9 of 23 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:01.03.2021 21:34:38 to 2016-2017 (₹ 267.88 crores). 13. The plaintiffs claim to be distributing their products, not only at retail
 outlets and chemists shops all over the country, but also through 226
 exclusive "Himalaya" stores, located over 108 cities. The plaintiffs also
 claim to be holding 82 domain names, in all of which "Himalaya" features
 as a prominent part. The plaintiffs' products, it is pointed out, are also
 available on all e-commerce websites, as a result of which the plaintiffs
 have, over a period of time, attained global reputation and goodwill. The
 plaintiffs claim to have approximately 150 registrations of "HIMALAYA"
 and associate marks and logos, across multiple classes and that, since 1930,
 the word-mark "HIMALAYA" is registered in the name of Plaintiff No. 2
 for medicinal, Ayurvedic and pharmaceutical preparations. A tabular
 statement of the registrations held by the plaintiffs is also provided in para
 28 of the plaint, which reads thus: 23. Mr. Pravin Anand submits that various emails addressed by the
 Defendant no. 2 to the various customers, inviting the customers to enroll as
 franchisees of the plaintiffs and to distribute plaintiffs' products, also reflect
 the bank accounts, in which deposits have been directed to be made for the
 said purpose. A tabular statement of these bank accounts, as contained in the
 prayer of the application is as under: 24. Defendant Nos. 16 to 18 are the domain name Registrars for the
 website of Defendant No. 1. 25. The plaint also annexes emails, pamphlets, franchisee application
 forms, fraudulent franchisee agreements, products lists, etc. of the
 defendants, using the plaintiffs' logo. Additionally, the following
 screenshots have been provided from www.himalayapharamcy.in and
 www.himalayawellness.in websites, reflecting the defendants' holding
 themselves out as associated with the plaintiffs: 26. All these frauds, it is submitted, are being perpetrated in the name of
 Himalaya Global Holdings Ltd. The following statements, as reflected in
 the above website, have also been extracted in para 44 of the plaint: 27. It is further alleged, in the plaint, that the emails shares by Defendant
 No. 1 and Defendant Nos. 3 to 6 indicate that the total investment amount
 for the purported franchisee of the plaintiffs' products is ₹10 lacs to ₹20
 lacs, of which 50% has to be paid in advance after entering into an
 agreement. The registration fee, which is being directed to be deposited by
 such prospective franchisee applicants by Defendant No. 1 is ₹ 29,800/- +
 18% GST apart from refundable security deposit (without interest). In total,
 a payment of ₹ 35,614/- had to be made in favour of Defendant No. 2
 through NEFT or online. 28. The plaint further alleges that it was found, by the plaintiffs, to their
 shock, that the distributorship agreement, on which applications were invited
 by Defendant No. 2, was signed by Mr. Philipe Haydon, who was the retired
 Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Plaintiff No. 1. 29. In these circumstances, the plaintiffs state that they initiated an
 investigation through a private investigator into the affairs of the defendants. The investigator, on contacting one of the representatives of Defendant No.
 2, was invited to his office, where he received a call from one Mr. Kartik
 Kumar Mishra, from another number, who informed him that he was the
 person looking after the franchisee process of M/s. Himalaya Global
 Holding Ltd. and that the charge for a franchisee was ₹ 35,164/-. The
 investigator also claimed that he had done a domain name search for the
 websites, www.himalayapharmacy.in and www.himalayawellness.in, but
 that the name of the registrants, the contact details etc. were completely
 redacted from the said websites. Investigations, at the addresses of
 Defendant no. 1, were also attempted, but no company was found at the said
 addresses nor were any employees present there. 30. After the investigations were concluded, it is alleged that the
 defendants changed their phone numbers reflected on their websites. 31. Inter alia, on these grounds, to Mr. Pravin Anand, learned counsel for
 the plaintiffs, submits that a fraud, solely aimed at reaping benefits and
 illegal gains, was being perpetrated by Defendant Nos. 1 to 15, capitalizing,
 in the process, on the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiffs. 32. The facts as noted hereinabove, led, prima facie, credence to the
 submissions advanced by Mr. Pravin Anand. It does appear that the
 defendants illegally sought to capitalize the goodwill of the plaintiffs and
 without any due authorization, are earning huge amounts from the public,
 representing themselves as authorised franchisee agents of the plaintiffs and
 distributors of the plaintiffs' products. 33. In view thereof, I deem it appropriate to pass the following ad interim
 directions: 34. The aforesaid directions shall continue to remain in force, till the next
 date of hearing. 35. However, as they have been passed ex parte, the defendants would be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 95/2021 Page 22 of 23 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:01.03.2021 21:34:38 at liberty to approach this Court for modification/vacation thereof, if they so
 deem appropriate. 36. The plaintiffs are also directed to comply with the requirement of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the CPC within a period of one week from today,
 for which purpose communications may be made at the email IDs provided
 in the memo of parties. 37. The Registry is directed to email a copy of this order to learned
 counsel for the plaintiffs as soon as it becomes available. C.HARI SHANKAR, J
 FEBRUARY 24, 2021
 r.bararia Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 95/2021 Page 23 of 23 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:01.03.2021 21:34:38