This appeal by the assessee is directed against final
assessment order dated 26/11/2014 passed by the Deputy
Commissioner of Income-tax, Circle-10(1), New Delhi [in short
'the Assessing Officer'] pursuant to the direction of the learned
Dispute Resolution Panel (in short 'the DRP') for assessment year
2010-11. Following grounds have been raised in the appeal: 09) which was not contemporaneous and which was not available in
 the public domain at the time of preparing the TP documentation by
 the Appellant, thereby grossly misinterpreting the requirement of
 'contemporaneous' data in the Rules to necessarily imply current
 year data, thereby breaching the principles of natural justice and
 'impossibility of performance.'

B. SIM Card Assembly Segment [Rs.3.90,60,721] 11. On facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and Ld. AO/TPO grossly erred
 in passing anon-speaking order without appreciating the correct 3 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 facts and legal position in utter disregard of the principles of natural
 justice. 12. On the facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and Ld. AO/TPO erred in
 making an adjustment of Rs.3,90,60,721/- to the total income of the
 Appellant on account of the difference in arm's length price of the
 international transactions pertaining to SIM Card Assembly segment. 13. Without prejudice, on facts and in law, the order of the Ld. AO/TPO
 is erroneous to the extent of not incorporating the binding directions
 of the Hon'ble DRP that the treatment of foreign exchange gain/loss
 should be considered as a non-operating item, while finalizing the
 order section 143(3) read with section 144C of the Act. 14. Without prejudice, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO and Hon'ble
 DRP erred in not appreciating that adjustment, if any, in computing
 the profit margin of SIM card Assembly Segment ought to have been
 restricted to international transaction with AE's and not the whole
 segment. 15. On facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and Ld. TPO/AO ered in
 applying the profit margin of comparable companies to that of the
 Appellant without taking into account economic & commercial
 reasons and factual data to support the losses incurred in the SIM
 card assembly segment. 16. On facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and the Ld. TPO/AO have
 failed to make appropriate adjustments to account for varying risk
 profiles of the Appellant vis-à-vis the comparables and in the process
 also neglected the Indian transfer princing regulations, OECD
 guidelines on transfer pricing and judicial procedure. 17. On the facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and the Ld. TPO/AO
 grossly erred in taking the margin on SIM Card assembly segment
 and comparing the margin of comparables, without giving any
 benefit on account of high competition in market, capacity under
 utilization, low sales, realization due to falling prices etc, 18. Without prejudice to our other grounds of appeal, the Ld. TPO ought
 to have considered that in view of the peculiar facts of the matter. AE
 should have been taken as 'Tested Party' for the purpose of
 benchmarking international transaction in respect to SIM Card
 assembly segment. 19. Without prejudice to our other grounds of appeal, the Ld. TPO ought
 to have considered that pursuant to rule 10B of Income-tax Rules,
 1962 and OECD guidelines the 'Tested Party' is one with less
 complex function analysis where profitability can be reliably
 ascertained with lease adjustments. Corporate Tax Grounds

A. Disallowance of export commission [Rs.39,47,160/-] 20. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO erred in determining and the
 Hon'ble DRP erred in confirming the adjustment of Rs.39,47,160/- to
 the total income of the Appellant on account of disallowance of
 payment of export commission under Section 40(a)(ia) of the Act. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015 21. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP grossly
 erred in not appreciating that the marketing support service were
 rendered outside India and as such the income of the payee neither
 accrued nor arose in India and hence, was not taxable in India. 22. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in
 concluding that the payment of export commission by the Appellant
 partakes the character of "fees for technical services" and is covered
 by the provisions of the section 9(1)(vii)(b) of the Act. 23. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP grossly
 erred in concluding that the payment of export commission by the
 Appellant to a non-resident is covered by the provisions of Section
 195 of the Act, which requires for deduction of TDS on payment to a
 non-resident. B. Addition on account of Bad Debts [Rs.29,73,346] 24. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'bel DRP erred in
 concluding that the Appellant had failed to prove that the bad debts
 had been actually written off and also income corresponding to such
 bad debts had also been offered to tax in the earlier year and hence
 had to be disallowed under Section 36(1)(vii) of the Act. 25. On facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP grossly erred
 in not appreciating that the Appellant had actually written off
 Debtors aggregating to Rs.29,73,346/- as bad debts which
 represents income relating to earlier year's which remained unpaid
 and could not be realized and hence written off. C. Other Grounds 26. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO erred
 in levying interest under section 234B and 234D of the Act. 27. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred on
 facts and in law in initiating penalty under section 271(1)(c) of the
 Act. 2. Briefly stated facts of the case are that the assessee company
is engaged in the business of trading of 'currencies verification'
and 'currency processing machines', its after sales warranty
services and software services etc. For the year under
consideration, the assessee filed return of income on 07/10/2010
declaring total income of Rs.17,77,56,570/-. The return of income
filed by the assessee was selected for scrutiny assessment and
statutory notices under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (in short 'the 5 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

Act') were issued and complied with. In view of the international
transactions undertaken by the assessee with its Associated
Enterprises (AEs), the learned Assessing Officer referred the
matter of determination of the arm's-length price of those
international transactions to the learned Transfer Pricing Officer
(TPO). The TPO after going through the transfer pricing study of
the assessee and after providing an opportunity of being heard in
his order dated 16/01/2014 under section 92CA of the Act,
proposed transfer pricing adjustment of Rs.1,94,67,549/- to the
transaction of the software development service and of
Rs.3,90,60,721/-to the SIM card assembly segment , totaling to
Rs.5,85,28,270/-. The Assessing Officer in the draft assessment
order dated 21/03/2014, in addition to the transfer pricing
adjustment proposed of Rs.5,85,28,270/-, also proposed
disallowance of export commission of Rs.39,47,160/- on account
of non-deduction of TDS and addition on account of the bad debt
of Rs.29,73,346/-. Against the draft assessment order, the
assessee filed objection before the learned DRP. The Learned
DRP, rejected various objection of the assessee against the filters
applied by him for short-listing the comparables but issued
direction for excluding certain comparables. On the direction of
the learned DRP, the learned TPO computed transfer pricing
adjustment to Rs.4,81,38,645/-. The disallowance of export
commission of Rs.39,47,160/- and addition of bad debt of
Rs.29,73,346/- was confirmed by the learned DRP. Pursuant to
the direction of the Learned DRP, the Assessing Officer passed the
impugned final assessment order. Aggrieved with the
additions/disallowance made in the impugned final assessment 6 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

order, the assessee is in appeal before the Tribunal raising the
grounds as reproduced above. 3. The ground No.1 to 10 of the appeal relates to transfer pricing
adjustment to the transaction of software development services.
3.1 Before us, the Ld. Counsel of assessee filed a Paper-book
containing pages 1 to 783in two volumes and submitted that in
relation to transfer pricing adjustment of software development
services, the assessee referred only to exclusion of comparable
namely M/s Infosys Ltd. 3.2 The functions, assets and risk (FAR) profile of the assessee
reported by the assessee in transfer pricing study in relation to
international transaction of provision of the software development
services of Rs.15,94,04,791/-, available on page 92 to 100 of the
paper book is reproduced as under: The software developed is primarily used in the telecom
 segment (about 80%). The other verticles in which the
 company operates are banking and government solutions.
 The software developed by G&D India does not find any
 standalone application without the Smartcards. The
 transfer of software happen through multi-site date
 transfer systems. 5.3.1.2 Role of G&D GmbH
 G&D GmbH conceptualizes the need for a particulars
 software application to be used in providing services to its
 end customers. G&D GmbH then defines the basic design
 of software, project content, delivery time, etc. for
 developing the particular software. The software so
 developed by G&D India is finally inserted by G&D GmbH
 in the Smartcards. G&D GmbH is also responsible for the
 overall supervision of the software developed.
 G&D GmbH has defined the whole Product Life Cycle
 ("PLC") Procedure. The PLC Procedure covers the entire
 development process from "cradle to grave", it defines the
 major milestones which link multiple departments at G&D
 GmbH through reviews, hand off etc. This procedure
 applies not only to new products, but also to products that
 required modifications, feature enhancements and new
 package options. The Product Life Cycle is broken down into a traditional
 phased approach. Each Phase is made up of major
 deliverables and or milestones and these milestones are
 defined by G&D Gmbh. The activity diagram in relation to the software
 development service rendered by G&D India is shown
 below: Initial product idea is presented along with the business
 case, requirements, architecture and project plan before
 the management of G&D GmbH. This process allows
 management to control the allocation of resources to a
 project starting from its approval and till it is ready to be
 launched into development. The time schedule as to when
 to complete each phase of the module is also decided along
 with the management approval. 5.3.1.3.3 Software specification and Requirement analysis
 G&D GmbH defines the exact specifications/requirement
 of the project, methodologies and tools to be used in the
 project, time lines for the completion of the project and
 standards thereof. The function pertaining to the conceptualization of services
 is a key aspect and is undertaken by G&D GmbH. G&D
 Indian provides its inputs in the requirement analysis
 phase of the software development process, but this is
 restricted to the information required by G&D GmbH. Thus,
 G&D GmbH is wholly responsible for defining the
 specifications and requirements of the software developed
 by G&D India. 5.3.1.3.4 Product Validation and Data Flow Test
 After receiving product specifications, charts and diagrams
 from G&D GmbH, G&D India performs coding function
 which involves translation of the solutions provided by
 systems designers into detailed program specifications.
 G&D India also undertakes program design activities
 including data and module definition, specification of input
 and output between systems, and error message
 arrangements. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 G&D India performs tests mandated prior to release of the
 product/software to the customers. Once demo product is
 developed and is shown to the customer/prospective
 customer (activity co-ordinated by G&D GmbH team), demo
 chip undergoes a regressive testing in India based on
 customer's feedback. G&D India is responsible for testing all maintenance
 processes (existing software applications) as well as new
 development activity to ensure that it meets the
 specifications/requirements of G&D GmbH. 5.3.1.3.5 Development and Documentation
 G&D India undertakes the development of software
 module and documentation function with respect to the
 software modules that it develops. However, G&D GmbH
 plans, supervises and manages the production and
 documentation function performed by G&D India. 5.3.1.3.6 Testing
 Post-development of module, quality assurance team tests
 and verifies and developed software. 5.3.1.3.7 Integration
 G&D GmbH with assistance from G&D India integrates the
 individual modules, if required, and performs the
 integration and testing. The final software developed, post
 validation and testing in India, is supplied to G&D GmbH
 or to the chip manufacturer. This software is embedded
 into the chips. These chips are then packed and tested for
 quality check and finally sold to customers by G&D GmbH. 5.3.1.4 Research & Development
 G&D GmbH undertakes research activities required in
 respect of the software development services rendered by
 G&D India. G&D India does not perform any function
 which may lead to the creation of significant intangibles. 5.3.1.5 Project management
 G&D GmbH performs feasibility studies on each product
 and develops written requirements to provide direction for
 product development and highlighting the product
 functions, product perspective, and unique position the
 product intends to fill in the market place. At the time of finalization of work to be done by G&D
 India, G&D GmbH identifies the resources required to
 undertake the project and also identifies the areas where
 G&D India's assistance would be required. G&D GmbH
 deploys a Senior R&D and Marketing Management team to
 analyze the software requirement and design an
 architecture based on the analysis. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 The project team at G&D India works in close co-ordination
 with the project team at G&D GmbH. The resources are
 mobilized depending upon the requirements of the project.
 Thus, the overall project responsibility remains with G&D
 GmbH which is also responsible for monitoring and
 managing the entire project. 5.3.1.6 Support Services
 As per the services agreement entered into between G&D
 GmbH and G&D India, G&D GmbH may specify post-
 delivery support obligations. With regard to the support
 services, based on follow-up with customers, if there is
 any but in the software, the customers would reach out to
 Sales & Marketing team of G&D GmbH are subsequently
 the Engineering Team is informed of the problem in the
 software. G&D GmbH then takes a call on which team
 shall be appointed to resolve the software bungs. 5.3.2 Assets
 G&D India maintains and deploys necessary human
 resources and infrastructure for development of software.
 However, G&D India does not own any valuation non-
 routine intangibles. Further, all intangibles including
 patents, trademarks and trade secrets etc. are the sole
 and exclusive property of G&D GmbH. G&D India's assets
 includes computers, office equipment, etc. for its business
 operations. The company carries out its activities from its
 centre at Pune, which is designated STPI unit. 5.3.2.1 Human resource
 In respect of software development services, human
 resource is the most critical asset. During 2009-10, the
 company had employed around 73 software developers
 with a staff of 9 persons looking after the managerial
 functions and a support staff of 5 persons. The qualification requirements for developers employed by
 G&D India are person with BE, B.Tech and MCA. 5.3.2.2 Other assets
 G&D India also employs other hardware/software for
 provision of software development services to G&D GmbH

5.3.3 Risk Analysis
 The various risks associated with this international
 transaction are as under: G&D GmbH bears the technology risk as it is the owner of
 the final software product developed. As the technology is
 ever-evolving, G& D GmbH is constantly upgrading the
 software. 5.3.3.5 Manpower Risk
 G&D India has skilled workforce to perform various
 functions relating to development of software. There is a
 risk of trained manpower leaving the company. Software
 industry is plagued with high risk of attrition. Thus, G&D
 India bears the manpower risk. However, since G&D India
 functions as a captive unit, G&D GmbH in turn also faces
 manpower risk. 5.3.3.6 Service liability risk
 Service liability risk refers to the risk associated with the
 possibility of facing legal action form customers, due to
 defects in the products provided. G&D India provides software services only to its AEs. The
 risk of service liability to customers of G&D GmbH rests
 with G&D GmbH. However, in case of any default, G&D
 India is liable to rework. 5.3.3.7 Credit risk 13 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 Since G&D GmbH sells the products to third party
 customers on credit terms, any risk such as bad debts
 arising out of credit transactions are borne by G&D GmbH.
 G&D India does not bear any credit risk as it provides
 services only to its AEs. 5.3.3.8 Foreign exchange risk
 G&D India invoices G&D GmbH for its services in Euros,
 which is different from its functional currency (i.e. INR).
 Thus, the foreign exchange risk is borne by G&D India. The decisions regarding the organization and the reporting
 structure of the software development centre at G&D India, is
 looked after by G&D GmbH. The software development head at
 G&D India has reporting to G&D GmbH, in addition to direct
 reporting to the management of G&D India. 5.3.4.2 Capacity decision
 The decision regarding utilization of resources and the planning
 of resources is a function of G&D GmbH; G&D India only acts
 as a service provider given the requirements and needs by G&D
 GmbH. G&D India participates in the decision-making process
 with the final decision vesting with G&D GmbH. 5.3.4.3 Budged Process
 G&D India is allocated a budget by G&D GmbH, which forms a
 part of the Global R&D budget of the G&D Group. 5.3.4.4 Capex Decision
 The decision to set-up the software development centre in G&D
 India was taken by G&D GmbH. 5.3.4.5 Key result areas (KRA) of the software development team. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 The KRA of the software development head at G&D India is
 delivery of software as per the requirements of G&D GmbH and
 cost control. The work to be outsourced to India is decided by
 G&D GmbH. 5.3.5 Characteristics of G&D India's risk-n-reward matrix. On detailed examination of the functional matrix of software
 development services rendered by G&D India, as outlined in section 5 .3.1 above, we understand that G&D India is a low
 risk service provider which is not vested with the capacity
 utilization decision/risk. The key characteristics of the risk-n-
 reward matrix of software development services rendered by
 G&D India are: Pursuant to the directions of the learned DRP of
accepting/rejecting the comparables, the adjustment was reduced
to Rs.4,81,38,645/-. Before us, the assessee has sought only to
exclude the comparable M/s Infosys Technologies Ltd.
3.4 Before the Learned TPO, the assessee objected inclusion of
the M/s Infosys Technologies Ltd on the ground of functional
dissimilarity, Brand profit, on-site revenue, employee cost to cost
ratio, research and development expenses and significantly higher
turnover. The learned TPO rejected the objection of the assessee
and observed that 90% of revenue of the Infosys comes from
maintenance or enhancement of the software and not from the
end-to-end solutions. He observed that operational size has no
impact on the profit margins. According to him in software
development service sector "teams of software employees" are
formed to work upon the software development services contracts
received and accordingly, more the contracts more team are
formed, therefore basic working remains the "team" in all the
companies in the software sector. In view of the basic unit of
business being the same i.e .'the team', he rejected the contention
of the assessee that the difference between taxpayer and the
Infosys due to Infosys might be having more teams than the
taxpayer to render software development services. The contention
of the functional difference on account of the on-site revenue was
also rejected by the Learned TPO. According to Ld TPO, this filter
was not applied while selecting/rejecting the comparables. He 16 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

also submitted that majority of the revenue of the Infosys was
from off-site activities. 3.5 The objection of the assessee of the significant brand value of
Infosys also rejected by the Learned TPO. The Learned TPO held
that brand building expenses (Rs. 57 crores) and marketing
expenses (Rs. 15 crores) constitute only 0.34% of the total
revenue. He also held that brand may have helped Infosys in
increasing its No. of clients and retention of the existing client
and thus increasing its market, but it has not necessary resulted
in better profit margins and there are several other factors which
go into the profitability of a concern. Regarding the argument of
the assessee that Infosys has incurred substantial R&D
expenditure and is developing intellectual property and therefore
it is different from the taxpayer, the learned TPO held that R&D
expenses (Rs. 438 crores) constitute only 2.07% of the revenue,
which cannot be said to be substantial by any standard. In view
of the observations, the learned TPO included the company as
comparable. 3.6 Before the Learned DRP, the assessee contested that Infosys
sells software product for banking industry in the name of the
"Finnacle", and thus being mixed product and software
development segment, the company cannot be treated as
comparable at the entity level. The learned DRP, however rejected
this contention of the assessee holding that revenue from
software product was of Rs. 925 Crores out of its operating
revenue of Rs 21,140 crores, which constitute only 4.3% of the
operating revenue. The contention of high turnover of the Infosys
and renders end to end solutions was also rejected by the learned 17 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

DRP. The objection on the ground of expenditure on R&D was
also rejected by the learned DRP. 3.7 Before us, the learned Counsel of the assessee submitted that
the company M/s Infosys Technologies Ltd has been rejected by
the Tribunal in the case of the assessee itself for assessment year
2008-09 and assessment year 2011-12. The learned Counsel also
referred to the Annual Report of the company available on page
366 to 462 to support that in the year under consideration there
is no change in the function of the company and therefore relying
on the order of the Coordinate bench of the Tribunal in
assessment year 2008-09 and 2011-12, the company might be
excluded from the set of the comparables. 3.8 The Learned DR, on the other hand, relied on the finding of
the lower authorities. 4. We have heard rival submissions of the parties on the issue
in dispute and perused the relevant material on record. We find
that there is no significant change in the activities of the company
as compared to earlier years. In assessment year 2008-09, the
coordinate bench of Tribunal in ITA No. 5924/del/2012, following
the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens network
India private limited (supra) excluded M/s Infosys Technologies
Ltd from the set of the comparables observing as under: comparable with Agnity India Technologies Pvt. Ltd. The
 facts of the instant case are similar to the extent that the
 extant assessee is also not owning any branded products
 and having no expenditure on R&D etc. When we consider
 all the above factors in a holistic manner, there remains
 absolutely no doubt that Infosys Technologies Ltd. is not
 comparable with the assesse company. Respectfully
 following the judgment of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High
 Court in Agnity India (supra), we hold that Infosys
 Technologies Ltd., cannot be treated as comparable with
 the assessee company. This company is, therefore,
 directed to be excluded from the list of comparables." 80. The diversified activities of business, its deployment of
capital, resources and the brand name make this company not
comparable with the assessee and, therefore, this company has
to be excluded from the final set of comparable companies for
benchmarking international transaction related to software
segment." ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 3.2.26 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate
 Bench, whilst, following the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court, as afore mentioned, we direct the AO/ TPO to exclude Infosys
 from the final list of comparables." 4.1 Respectfully, following the view taken by the Coordinate
bench in assessment year 2008-09, we direct the Ld AO/TPO to
exclude M/s Infosys Technologies Ltd. from the final set of the
comparables. The ground No. 1 to 10 of the appeal of the assessee
are accordingly allowed. 5. The ground Nos. 11 to 19 of the appeal are related to
adjustment made to SIM Card Assembly segment. The Learned
Counsel before us submitted that said adjustment has already
been deleted by the Ld. AO wide its rectification order dated
22/06/2015 (copy of which is available on page 357 to 360 of the
PB). In view of the deletion of the addition by the learned AO, the
learned Counsel of the assessee did not press the ground No. 11 -
19 of the appeal, accordingly same are dismissed as infructuous. 6. The ground Nos. 20-23 of the appeal relates to disallowance
of the export commission on account of non-deduction of the tax
at source. 6.1 The assessee submitted before the Assessing Officer that it
paid commission amounting to Rs.39,47,160/- to M/s G & D
LLC, Egypt, for forwarding the sales order to the assessee for
sales in the region of Middle East and North Africa. It submitted
that the services are carried out by the G & D Egypt outside India
and not qualify as "fee for technical services" or "royalty" as
defined under section 9(1) of the Act. It further submitted that
payment for such services was also received by the G & D Egypt
outside India. Therefore, it was submitted that as a non-resident
operates out of India, no part of its income accrues arises in India 20 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

and accordingly such sum would not be liable for withholding tax
under the provisions of the section 195 of the Act. Further the
assessee relied on the Circular No. 23 of 1969 issued by the
Central Board of the Direct Taxes (CBDT) and subsequently
reiterated by the CBDT in Circular No. 786 of 2000.
6.2 The Learned Assessing Officer rejected the contention of the
assessee. According to him in view of section 9(1)(vii)(b) of the Act
the income by way of fees for technical services payable by a
resident, except where services are utilized outside India or for
the purpose of making of earning an income from any source
outside India, then such income shall be deemed to accrue or
arise in India. The learned Assessing Officer held that payment by
the resident assessee in connection with his business in India to
a person outside India making use of his expertise in sale of
goods in a particular country is nothing but a fee which has been
paid by the resident assessee to the non-resident for services
rendered by him, which is construed as fee for technical services.
According to the Assessing Officer there is element of
consultancy, technical and managerial services for which said
commission was paid and therefore it was squarely covered by section 9 of the Act, and thus as per section 195 of the Act, the
assessee was required to deduct tax at source. The Assessing
Officer held that in view of non-deduction of tax at source on the
commission payable/paid to non-resident of Rs.39,47,160/-is
disallowed under section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
6.3 The learned DRP examined the issue in detail. The learned
DRP examined various terms of the agreement between the
assessee and M/s G & D Egypt and concluded that there existed 21 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

a business connection between G&D Egypt and G & D India. The
relevant finding of the learned DRP is reproduced as under: It is also a fact that a transaction cannot be finalized until and
 unless GD Egypt is involved and therefore, the relationship between
 the two is such that the action cannot be completed without the
 payment of the said payment of the said commission to GD Egypt. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 Under these facts, the Panel holds that there is a business
 connection between GD Egypt with GD India." 6.4 Further, the learned DRP held that services rendered by GD
Egypt are in the nature of managerial, consultancy and technical
observing as under: The ITAT Hyderabad in case of Tecumseh Products (I) Ltd. Vs. DCIT ,
 86 ITD 791 has observed that 'technical services' does not include
 providing some technical knowledge for manufacturing alone.
 Technical knowledge includes management or consultancy services. In view of the above, and considering the nature of services
 rendered by GD Egypt, it can be said that the services rendered are
 such which require expertise and knowledge in the specific area of
 work, such expertise cannot be developed overnight but is the result
 of long period of work in this line of activities coupled with
 accumulated experience of operations. The Panel therefore, believes
 that the payments made by the taxpayer to GD Egypt partakes the
 character of FTS under the domestic law." ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

6.5 Further, the learned DRP held that in view of the explanation
below section 9(2) , which has been inserted by the Finance Act 2010 with retrospective effect from 01/06/1976, even the income
of non-resident deemed to accrue or arise in India irrespective of
whether or not business connection in India or the non-resident
has rendered services outside India. According to the learned DRP
in view of the explanatory memorandum to the Finance Bill 2010,
the situs of rendering services is not relevant and it is the situs of
the payer and the situs of utilization of the services which will
determine the taxability of such services in India.
6.6 The learned DRP held that the provision of section 9(1)(vii) are applicable in the case of the assessee observing as under: 16.3 The expression 'fees for technical services' has been
 defined to mean; 16.4 The aforesaid amendment has come into force with
 effect form 1-6-1976, and will apply in relation to the
 assessment year 1977-76 and subsequent years. In view of the above, it is evident that the intention of the
legislature clarified by the Explanatory circular on the introduction of
the amendment in the Act has been to consider "such person" 6.7 In view of the above discussion, the learned DRP upheld the
disallowance of commission in terms of section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
6.8 Before us, the learned Counsel of the assessee submitted
that identical issue of disallowance of commission on procuring
export orders has been allowed in favour of the assessee by the
Tribunal in assessment year 2009-10 holding that payment made
to foreign agents prior to the applicability of circular No. 7 of
2009, could not be brought to tax in India. 6.9 The learned Counsel submitted that in following decisions,
commission received for the services of procuring export order by
non-resident from outside India has been held not to be in the
nature of Fee for Technical Service: ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

6.11 The learned Counsel in the rejoinder submitted that nature
of the export commission has never been doubted by the
authorities and only issue in dispute is whether the said
commission payment for the services are in the nature of the Fee
for Technical Services (FTS). According to the assessee, the
payment was for only securing orders and not for rendering any
managerial technical consultancy services and thus not liable for
Fee for Technical services. 6.12 We have heard rival submission of the parties on the issue
in dispute. In the case, the assessee has made payment to non-
resident company M/s GD Egypt for procuring export order for
the assessee. The claim of the assessee that M/s GD Egypt has
rendered services out of the India and payment has been also
made to the said company outside India. The claim of the
assessee that payment in the hands of M/s GD Egypt is not
taxable in India and therefore no tax was deducted at source on
said payment. The contention of the Revenue is that said
payment is income taxable in India in the hands of M/s GD Egypt
due to following reasons: 6.14 Though, the identical issue was there in assessment year
2009-10, but in the said assessment year, the Tribunal held that
in view of the circular no. 23 of 1969 and 786 of 2000, issued by
the Central Board of the direct taxes (CBDT) , the commission
paid by the Indian exporters to a foreign agent was not taxable in
India. However the said circulars have been withdrawn by way of
circular No. 7/2009 dated 22/10/2009. Since in the year under
consideration those circulars are not applicable, the issue in
dispute has to be decided in the light of the provisions of the Act
and judicial decisions on the issue in dispute.
6.15 According to the section 9(1)(i) of the Act , all income
accruing or arising whether directly or indirectly, through or from
any business connection in India shall be deemed to accrue or
arise in India. Further explanation-1 below section 9(1)(i) of the
Act has explained the term business connection for the purpose
of the section. The explanation (a) is relevant in the facts of the
present case. The said explanation is reproduced as under: ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

6.16 Further, according to the Explanation -2 below the section
9(1)(i) also business activity need to carried out in India by any
other person on behalf of the non-resident. In the case, there are
no such allegation that business activity has been carried out in
India by any other person on behalf of GD Egypt.
6.17 Thus, according to the explanation if part of the business
operation are carried out in India then such part of the income
which is attributable to the operations carried out in India , shall
accrue or arise in India. 6.18 The coordinate bench of Tribunal in the case of Evergreen
International Ltd (supra) has referred to decisions in the case of
GVK industries Ltd Vs. ITO 228 ITR 564 wherein the term" In Carborandum Co. vs. CIT 1977 CTR (SC) 209 :(1977) 108 ITR
335 (SC), a foreign company entered into an agreement with an
Indian company for rendering technical and know-how services
to the Indian company. In lieu of those services, the foreign
company was to receive from the Indian company an annual
fee equal to three per cent. of the net sale proceeds of the
products manufactured by the Indian company every year. The
question was how much of the money received by the foreign
company would be taxable under the provisions of the Act. The
Indian company employed personnel made available by the
foreign company, who worked under the direct control of the
Indian company. The Supreme Court held that the services of
the foreign company in making the employees available were
rendered wholly outside India and that the activities of the
foreign personnel lent or deputed by the foreign company did
not amount to a business activity carried on by the foreign
company in India. It was further held that the fee did not accrue
or arise in India nor could it be deemed to have accrued or
arisen in India and that to rope in the income of a non-resident
under the deeming provision of s. 42(1) of the 1922 Act it must
be shown by the Department that some of the operations were
carried out in India in respect of which the income is sought to
be assessed. In CIT vs. Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. 1975 CTR (AP) 97 : (1977)
109 ITR 158 (AP), the respondent-company entered into an
agreement with a Polish company for the purchase of diesel
engines with accessories. The agreement provided that the
Polish company would render services for the effective
fulfillment of the contract of sale, which included organizing of a
training course in Poland for technical employees of Hindustan
Shipyard at the expense of the Polish company. In the context of
the question referred to this Court under s. 256(1) of the Act, the 30 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

Division Bench which dealt with the case, considered the scope
of the expression business connection within the meaning of ss.
9(1)(i) and 163(1)(b) of the Act and held that to conform to the
requirements of that expression it is necessary that the common
thread of mutual interest must run through the fabric of the
trading activities carried on outside and inside the taxable
territory which has been described as a real and intimate
connection and that there must be something more than a mere
transaction of purchase and sale between principal and
principal in order to bring the transaction within the purview of
the expression. 18. In Barendra Prasad Ray vs. ITO (1981) 22 CTR (SC) 157 : 19. In Addl. CIT vs. New Consolidt. Gold Fields Ltd. (1983) 143
ITR 599 (Patna), the assessee-company and the foreign
company entered into an agreement under which the foreign
company was to be technical adviser of the assessee-company
in the matter of exploration, mining and mineral dressing
operations. The foreign company was to be paid a retainers fee
at the rate of £ 7,000 per annum in London. The ITO treated the
assessee-company as the agent of the foreign-company within
the meaning of s. 163 of the IT Act and treated £ 7,000 payable
by the assessee-company to the foreign company as its income
accruing in the hands of the assessee-company. On appeal, the
AAC held that even if the assessee-company was to be treated
as an agent within the meaning of s. 163(1) , there was no
business connection within the meaning of s. 9(1) of the Act so 31 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

 the income accruing to the non-resident foreign company could
 not be assessed through its agent. That order was affirmed by
 the Tribunal. On a reference to the High Court of Patna, it was
 held that the sum of £ 7,000 was not the income which the
 foreign-company had received in India or an income which had
 accrued to the foreign company within the meaning of s. 5(2) of
 the Act and that the sum paid to the foreign company at London
 for technical advice given from London could not be attributed to
 the operation carried on in India. It was further held that there
 was no continuity between the business of the non-resident
 and the activity in the taxable territories in respect of the
 income and, therefore, there was no business connection
 between the foreign company and the assessee- company and
 the income could not be deemed to accrue or arise to the foreign
 company in India within the meaning of s. 9(1) as such, the
 said sum paid to the foreign company at London was not
 assessable in the hands of the assessee-company even as
 agent of the foreign company. 20. From the above discussion the following principles emerged: 6.19 Further, the learned DRP has relied on the decision of the
Tribunal in the case of ADIT Vs Star Cruise India Travel Services
(supra)wherein the term "business connection " has been
explained as under: Obviously, in the instant case no business connection exist and
thus the finding of the learned DRP on the issue is set aside.
6.22 Further, the learned DRP has held that the services
rendered by M/s GD Egypt require expertise and knowledge in 33 ITA No. 3865/Del./2015

the specific area of work and such expertise cannot be developed
overnight, but it is the result of long period of the work in this line
of activities coupled with accumulated experience of operations
and therefore the payment made by the assessee to GD Egypt
partakes the character of the FTS under domestic law.
6.23 In the instant case, the assessee has not invoked any
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) and therefore we
are examining only the FTS under domestic law.
6.24 This issue has been examined by the Tribunal in the case
of Evergreen international Ltd. (supra) as under: 6.25 In view of the above decision , the payment made for
procuring of export sale order for Indian taxpayer by any foreign
entities from outside India cannot be held as Fee for Technical
Services. 6.26 In view of holding that payment for services of GD Egypt are
not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS) , the other
finding of the learned DRP of the applicability of explanation
below section 9(2) i.e. there is no requirement of rendering
services in India for income deemed to accrue or arise in India as
per section 9(1)(vii) of the act, are rendered merely academic, and
we are not required to examine applicability of the same in the
year under consideration. 6.27 In view of the above, the payment made by the assessee is
not chargeable under the provisions of the Act in the hands of GD
Egypt, no tax is required to be deducted in terms of section 195of the Act and consequently no disallowance could be made under section 40(a)(i) of the Act for non-deduction of the tax at source.
6.28 The grounds No. 20 to 23 of the appeal are accordingly
allowed. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015 7. The ground No. 24 and 25 are in relation to bad debt of
Rs.29,73,346/-. 7.1 Before us, the learned Counsel of the assessee has submitted
that bad debt written off in books of accounts are to be allowed in
terms of decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of TRF
ltd, if following two conditions are satisfied: 7.2 The learned Counsel submitted that in respect of the bad
debt claims both the conditions are satisfied, however the
Assessing Officer has not allowed the claim of the bed debt. He
further submitted that the learned DRP is not correct in holding
that the assessee was required to prove that the debt from
Reserve bank of India and other banks becomes bad.
7.3 The Learned DR, on the other hand, submitted that the
assessee has not provided before the Assessing Officer the
supporting documents to explain whether the amount
corresponding to the bad debts were taken into account as
income in earlier years for the purpose of the tax, and therefore
issue may be restored back to the file of the Assessing Officer for
verification. 7.4 We have heard rival submission of the parties on the issue in
dispute. The finding of the Assessing Officer in draft assessment
order, which is reproduced in para 5.2 is extracted as under: The ground Nos. 24 and 25 of the appeal accordingly allowed for
statistical purposes. 8. The ground No. 26 is consequential nature and ground No. 27
is premature at this stage, thus, both these grounds are
dismissed as infructuous. ITA No. 3865/Del./2015 9. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed partly for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open court on 1st May, 2020.