SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Apparently I got punished because I couldn't convince my brother to do something he was supposed to do...
DATE: 2022-04-28
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/udgqu0/apparently_i_got_punished_because_i_couldnt/

--- POST TEXT ---

Long post alert. I'll try to keep this as concise as possible.

Some years ago (circa 2015/16) I helped establish a musical instrument company with 2 other guys. Eventually I left due to a personal reasons unrelated to them or the company. Since then, one of them (let's call him A) has been the elder brother I never had and the other (let's call him B) a close friend.

Fast forward to march, 2021 A gets married and hires my younger brother (who owns a media company) to do the photos and videos. I, being a video editor by profession, edit his wedding video free of charge out of love, respect and appreciation for him. 

Now, I am NOT an employee of my brother's company. I only edit some videos for him freelance.

Right after A got married I commissioned an instrument from him as a wedding gift to my girlfriend who I was gonna marry in December. A's company operated on the basis of 50% the total cost being an advance and the rest upon delivery. Me being close to A, I could pay the money as and when I could. I paid the first installment and was given an invoice by B (who handles documentation). I was to get another invoice when I completed 50% payment.

In the meantime I had edited and delivered A's wedding video to his liking by the end of May. Therefore my commitment to him with regards to his wedding stuff was finished.

I completed more than half the payment on the instrument by August but didn't get an invoice and quite frankly I didn't really worry because I thought it was just some delay with covid or something, and it was beyond my imagination that he could play foul with me of all people.

During that time he started to complain to me that he hadn't got his deliverables from my brother (the pictures). When I asked my brother about it he told me that A hadn't paid up a good portion of whatever he owed and on top of that he wanted additional perks from my brother (which he wasn't opposed to provide since he too was close to A, but wanted to be paid what was already due). This complaining got worse all the way through September when A would urge me to ask my brother to pick up the phone or call him back. My brother said that he had ghosted A for the time being because A would call him literally dozens of times even when he was at work and moreover still hadn't paid up.

I told A that I had repeatedly asked my brother to sort it out with him (which I actually had) but if he didn't, then I couldn't do anything more because I was in no capacity attached to my brother's company; I was only a freelancer who had edited his wedding video and that was it. I wasn't gonna advise somebody on how to run their own business.

November is about to end and suddenly both A and B ghost me. I get married in December with no instrument to gift to my wife. 

Now, I could have easily bought a run of the mill instrument for her for a fraction of the cost of the custom one but I wanted to have it made by A because he is a fantastic artist in addition to being an instrument maker.

Several weeks after my wedding, I only got a hold of A when I threatened to post everything on social media and many a heated conversation were had.

As of this writing, A still hasn't got his photos from my brother and (in his words) "since I couldn't request/force my brother to deliver the goods I haven't got my instrument (or even the due invoice), it is nothing personal".

At this point the instrument holds 0 sentimental value and has burnt a small hole in my pocket while not even being paid in full (it's very expensive for what it is). I have considered getting the law involved but I doubt it will bear fruit because all evidence I have are 1 invoice and a bunch of whatsapp conversations, no written agreement since I couldn't imagine A being a fraud and he was extremely close to me. I am strongly considering social media but still hesitant because I don't want my brother to get dragged into controversy. The relationships with A and B are beyond repair and I do not care if they drop dead at this point.

I am not defending what my brother did but IMO I haven't done anything to deserve this heartache and disappointment. 

Am I wrong? If no, what can I do now to get my money back or at least get what I paid for even if it means absolutely nothing sentimentally?