1.	Intercontinental
Hotel Group (India) Private Limited ( IHG ) appellant herein,
being aggrieved by the order passed by the City Civil Court (Court
No.16), Ahmedabad, in an application under Section 9 of the
Arbitration Act, has filed the present appeal. 2.	The
appellants and the respondent entered into an agreement for running a
hotel of international standard at Sapath-V, S.G.Road, Ahmedabad. The
parties had entered into a management agreement. It is dated
19.8.2008. It was agreed upon that respondent would construct / build
hotel as per the terms and conditions set out in the agreement. The
said hotel was to run in the name of Hotel Crown Plaza said to be
brand standard of the appellants. Under the agreement, appellants
were to run and manage the hotel for 20 years. Agreement had also
clause for renewal and extension of period. Mode of sharing the
profit / income was also agreed upon between the parties. It was
agreed that all the disputes arising out of the agreement shall be
referred to Singapore International Arbitration Centre. On 8.4.2013,
the respondent had terminated the agreement entered into with the
appellants. The appellants had moved City Civil Court, Ahmedabad, as
stated above, by filing CMA No.430 of 2013. The said Court had passed
order dated 8.8.2013 had rejected the appellants application.
Hence, the present appeal. 3.	In CMA
No.430 of 2013, from which present appeal arises, the appellants have
prayed as under : Alternatively,

 

 

 
	 

	Injunction
	restraining the opponent from directly or directly using or
	permitting any third party from using applicant s marks, system,
	brand standards and intellectual property or like interest until
	such time disputes arising out of the agreement dated August 19,
	2008 are finally adjudicated by the Arbitral Tribunal under terms of
	the agreement. Directing the
	opponent to pay cost of the present proceedings to the applicants; (e)	Pass such
further or other orders and/or directions as this Hon ble Court may
deem fit and proper, in the facts and circumstances of the case. 4.	The findings
of the learned trial court may be summarized as under : The court also found that it is in nature of private commercial
transaction. In either case, it is determinable in nature without
assigning any reasons. That Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act do
not apply nor the case law relied on by the applicant supports the
say of the applicants in the facts of the present case. (k)	That reply
given by the applicants to the notice given to the opponent supports
the say of the opponent plus the grounds stated by Mr.Gupta for
resigning as a Manager of the applicants support this assertion of
the opponent. (l)	Signage,
marks etc. have been removed. There is no distinctive quality that
can be pointed out as capable to mislead the public at large or to
the customer to infer that the opponent is running Crown Plaza Hotel. (m)	That
irreparable loss would be to the opponent and if the applicants
succeed, then applicants can be compensated by awarding suitable
compensation. (n)	Considering
the facts and circumstances of the present case and considering the
nature of agreement entered into between the parties, case law relied
on by the applicants do not help the applicants. (o)	It is for
the Arbitrator to decide the questions, viz., termination of
agreement is wrongful or not, whether the opponent was justified in
terminating the agreement or not and whether there is material breach
committed by the party or not. (p)	Looking to
the facts of the case and looking to the agreement in nature, the
agreement is not in nature of joint ventured agreement. The submission
	of learned advocates for parties mainly revolves around the
	following points; whether the existence of essential ingredients of
	granting interim relief is made out by the party or not, whether Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act is attracted or not, and how
	far Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act would be attracted and
	other subsidiary points. The principal submissions of learned
	advocates for the parties were submission on points of law. These
	legal submissions were sought to be supported by relying on case
	laws. I may first refer the relevant case laws relied on by the
	learned advocate for the parties and thereafter, examine the merits
	of the case. 6.	Learned
Senior Advocate Shri Mihir Joshi with learned advocate Mr.Sandeep
Singhi for Singhi & Co. on behalf of the appellants has drawn
attention to relevant case law. The
principal reliance was placed on Adhunik
Steel Ltd. s case [2007 (7) SCC 125, Page Guide s case ( 1985 WL
310887), Indian Oil Corporation v. Amritsar Gas Company s case
[( 1991) 1 SCC 533], KSL & Industries
v. National Textile Corporation Ltd. s case, [2012 (3) Arb.LR 470
(Delhi) and N. Srinivasa v. Kuttukaran Machine Tools case [(2009)
5 SCC 182 and other case laws. 7.	Much
reliance was placed on Page Guide s case
(1985 WL 310887). In that case, the Court of appeal had upheld
the granting of interim injunction by the lower court. The
case arose, thus; Regent International Hotel Ltd., which has over
dozen luxury hotels world over, had entered into two agreements i.e.
management agreement and marketing agreement in July,1984 with
Dorchester Hotel Ltd. of London. There are two Regents i.e. Regent
International Hotel and Regent (UK), the latter company wholly owned
and subsidiary of the former, had entered into agreement whereby
Regent Hotel was provided right to operate the hotel for 25 years.
During July,1984 to January,1985, Regents had embarked upon
planned expenditure of Rs.1.5 million pound for upgrading the
hotel. At the end of 1984, the owner of Ritz Hotel, Paris had shown
interest in purchasing the Dorchester Hotel. Showing of interest by
Ritz Hotel led to negotiation between the parties. Essential
condition of negotiation was Regent made it clear management
and marketing rights would continue with it. In January,1985, Page
Guide acquired the hotel. Under the novation agreement, the period of
management and marketing was reduced to 15 years from 25 years and
variation in other conditions. Then, without any prior warning 
on 21.2.1985, Regent (UK) and its solicitor received a letter
alleging, serious and fundamental breach of management
agreement. It was contended in the letter that Page Guide was no
longer bound by the management agreement. Regent Company initiated
legal action wherein the trial court was pleased to grant injunction
and being aggrieved by that, Page Guide filed an appeal. The
Court of appeal was pleased to dismiss the appeal. Much reliance was
placed on following holding : 8.	Reliance was
also placed on Amritsar Gas Service Company s case - [(1991) 1 SCC 533]. In that case, the respondent was granted
distributorship under the agreement entered into with the appellant.
The agreement was for sale of LPG gas i.e. Indane cylinder for
household and commercial consumer use for Amritsar area. Clause-27 of
the agreement provides for termination of agreement forthwith by the
Corporation on happening of events specified therein. Clause-28
permits either party to terminate the agreement by 30 days notice
to the other party without assigning any reason for such termination.
In pursuance to the complaint received about the working of the
respondent, the appellant had terminated the agreement forthwith by
invoking Clause-27. The respondent had filed suit before Amritsar
court. The relief prayed for was for declaration that termination is
illegal and for other consequential reliefs. The appellant had filed
an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act (old) praying
to stay the suit. The trial court and High Court had dismissed the
application. In further appeal before the Hon ble Supreme Court,
retired Judge of Punjab & Haryana High Court was appointed as an
arbitrator, with the consent of the parties. The arbitrator was
pleased to allow the respondent s claim and he had, inter-alia,
ordered to restore the grant of
distributorship to the respondent. An application to make award Rule
of Court came up for consideration before the Hon ble Supreme Court
and it was contested by the parties. The Hon ble Supreme Court had
set aside the direction of restoration of distributorship to the
respondent and had also modified the other reliefs. In Para.12, it
has held, thus : 9.	In Adhunik
Steel Ltd. s case [2007 (7) SCC 125], the OMM Pvt. Ltd. was
granted lease for mining from certain areas of Sundernagdh District,
Orissa. By entering into an agreement with Adhunik, OMM had given
their right of mining to Adhunik. This agreement was for the period
of 10 years with option to renew the agreement for further period.
Pursuant to the agreement, Adhunik had, mobilized huge resources 
and had incurred expenses. OMM had given notice and had terminated
the agreement. Adhunik filed an application under Section 9 of the
Act before the District Court, Sundernagdh. Adhunik had alleged that
it had incurred considerable expenses pursuant to the agreement. The
District Court had granted the interim relief to the appellant. OMM
filed an Appeal. The High Court took the view that in view of
Clause-8.2 of the agreement, contract was not determinable in nature.
It is this finding and conclusion of the High Court that was strongly
relied on by Shri Joshi. It was submitted that there is same clause
in the agreement in the present case. The High Court in that case was
pleased to refuse the injunction holding that loss to the Adhunik
that may be sustained is possible to calculate. Hence, the appeal was
allowed. In appeal filed by Adhunik before the Hon ble Supreme
Court, the Hon ble Supreme Court substantially dismissed the
appeal. However, it restrained the OMM from entering into any
contract with third party. Shri Joshi has drawn attention to holding
of the Hon ble Supreme Court by referring to Para.21. Emphasis was
placed on this holding of this paragraph; So viewed, it was open
to the Court to pass an order by way of interim measure of protection
that the existing arrangement under the contract should be continued
pending the resolution of the dispute by the arbitrator. & 10.	Reference
and reliance was placed on KSL & Industries case [2012)
Arb.LR 470 (Delhi)]. In that case, the petitioner along with two
others had filed an application under Section 9 of the Act, seeking
stay of letter of termination of MoU. The petitioners had also prayed
for other consequential reliefs. The petitioners were engaged in
textile and real estate business. The respondent - National Textile
Corporation Ltd. (NTCL) a public sector enterprise, engaged in
affairs of sick textile units in the private sector. The business of
respondent is to take over sick units. The respondent owned several
textile mills. Upon receiving report / opinion from BIFR, the
respondent has decided to revive the sick textile units owned
by it by joint venture. For the said purpose, bids were invited. The
petitioners applied for the same. As per the condition in the bid,
51% of the total capital would be held by the respondent. The
petitioners bid was accepted. In pursuance to that, MoU was signed
by the parties. Later on, the respondent had issued letter of
termination, alleging that petitioners have not entered into
definitive agreement as agreed between the parties under the MoU. In
an application under Section 9 of the Act by the petitioners, the
learned Single Judge was pleased to issue injunction, as prayed for,
by the petitioners. The Court therein concluded, thus; From the
facts narrated above, it prima facie appears that there is no
justification offered by the respondent for the sudden termination of
MoU without furnishing any reasons thereof, when both the parties
and, in particular the petitioner had taken all the steps that were
expected of it in furtherance of MoU. I may note that the respondent
has not even offered to explain or to justify its conduct in
terminating the MoU and its defence is only that termination is in
terms of the MoU. Prima facie, I am, therefore, of the view
that the termination of the MoU vide letter dated 14.9.2010 is
arbitrary, irrational and illegal& (Para.100) 11.	In
Gujarat Bottling Co. s case
(GBC Case) 1995 (5) SCC 545, the appellant company had bottling
plant at Ahmedabad and Rajkot. Earlier with the arrangement and
agreement entered into between the parties i.e. Parle Products, GBC
was bottling the different products of Parle i.e. Gold Spot, Thums
Up, Rim Zim etc. On 12.11.1993, Coca Cola acquired the Parle Company.
During the course of negotiation with Parle, Coca Cola had also
entered into an agreement with GBC. Two agreements were entered into
with GBC. After 12.11.1993, another two agreements were entered into
with Coca Cola. After entering into these four agreements, GBC has
taken steps to upgrade its plant at Ahmedabad and Rajkot. Coca Cola
had also advised GBC to make additional investment in marketing
arrangement, purchasing of crates, trucks and other equipments etc.
GBC was reluctant to make further investment. While so, some of the
respondents asked permission from Coca Cola to grant them permission
in advance for transfer of their interest in GBC. Coca Cola declined
to give permission in advance, without being aware as to who is
prospective purchaser and further it made it clear that GBC may not
in that event loose the controlling power. Thereafter, some of the
respondents, who had a share and interest in GBC, had transferred
their rights and interest into one company which happens to be
subsidiary of Pepsi. As a result of which Pepsi acquired control over
GBC. GBC gave notice to Coca Cola terminating the agreement with it.
Coca Cola filed a suit before the Bombay High Court. Against the
interim order passed by the learned Single Judge, parties had carried
the matter before the Division Bench. In the said appeal preferred by
both the side, the Court passed interim order. The nature of the
order passed by the Court was strictly in the facts and circumstances
of the case. Same is not material for the present purpose
 

 

 

11.1	Against
the order passed by the Division Bench, GBC filed an appeal before
the Hon ble Supreme Court. The Hon ble Supreme Court considered
essential ingredients for granting interim relief. The Hon ble
Supreme Court placed emphasis on balance of convenience and on
fairness. It held that party seeking interim relief should be fair
and honest. It also held that if the Court does not intervene then
Pepsi would be free to use the plant of GBC for manufacturing its
products. It would also cover the area that is covered in the
agreement with Coca Cola. The Hon ble Supreme Court held that loss
of goodwill and profit to Coca Cola cannot be compensated in terms of
money and on the other hand, possible loss that GBC may suffer can
be assessed and GBC can be compensated by awarding damages. 12.	Reference
to principle of the essential ingredients for interim injunction in
that case ought to be considered in the background of the above facts
and circumstances. It had held in Para.43 as under : In order to protect the defendant while granting
an interlocutory injunction in his favour the court can require the
plaintiff to furnish an undertaking so that the defendant can be
 adequately
compensated if the uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the
trial. (Para.43)
 

 

 
(emphasis
supplied)
 

 

 

12.1	In short,
it lay emphasis on balance of convenience. It also held that conduct
of party, who seeks interim relief, should be free from blame. 
That GBC has committed breach of agreement entered into with Coca
Cola. 13.	In Modi
Rubber s case 2007 (2) Arb.L.R. 133 (Delhi), two leading
companies i.e. Modi Rubber Company and Guardian International
Corporation, which were financially strong and stable , had
executed MoU. Pursuant to the said MoU, it had entered into another
agreement i.e. shareholder s agreement whereby they have agreed to
promote one company, viz., Gujarat Guardian Ltd. - as a joint venture
company for production of float glass. The dispute arose between them
and question arose for consideration before the Court, as stated by
the Court, were : It held as
under : 14. In Frankfinn Aviation Services Pvt. Ltd. v. B.C.Gupta,
MANU/DE/8609/07 , it would appear from the Head Note itself that it
was a typical case as the airbus facility was available only with the
defendant in India. It Head-Note reads; Case
Note : Civil Interim Injunction Section 10(ii)(a) of Specific
Relief Act, 1963 and Order 39 Rules 1, 2 and 4 of Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ) Present application filed by plaintiff
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 of CPC for interim prohibitory
injunction and objection filed by defendant against grant of
injunction under Order 39 Rule 4 of CPC Held, copy of brochures
printed by plaintiff contains its course content which includes
training inside a leased real airbus A-300 plaintiff has stated
in its brochures that it is only institute in world to have such a
facility It appears that
course and training imparted by plaintiff contains training inside
airbus A-300 as its integral part which has to be essentially
undergone by each student in order to obtain qualification of BTEC 
Therefore refusal to renew contract would jeopardise career of
thousand of students as well as their future prospects Airbus
fuselage is only fuselage available anywhere in India and no other
fuselage would be available and this position is not disputed by
defendants This facility would certainly fall within definition
of not being ordinary article of commerce and being of special value
and interest to plaintiff falling within expression of such unique
item in explanation to Section 10(ii)(a) of Act Therefore
plaintiff has made out a prima facie case for grant of ad interim
protection and that award of damages would not be a complete or
adequate remedy or relief plaintiff acted in good faith and would
certainly suffer irreparable loss and damage in case interim
protection is not granted Conduct of defendant in not making
available log books and not even disclosing same on record of case
and its belated response to letter and reminder of defendant shows
that defendant has not acted bonafide Balance of convenience is
clearly in favor of plaintiff who has exercised option to renew
agreement between parties in manner envisaged in agreement Hence,
application of plaintiff allowed subject to payment of enhanced
amount by plaintiff to defendant in terms of agreement and
application of defendant dismissed. 15.	Laurizencool
A.B. s case (2005) EWCAV 579 is a foreign decision wherein
two ships were chartered for services in pool. Owner of the ship
intends to withdraw the ship early from the date mentioned in the
agreement. The Court of appeal upheld the granting of injunction,
preventing the owner from employing the vessel outside the pool
pending the arbitration. 16.	In
Holiday Inn s case
 (1976) 1 MLJ 213, on 1.9.1971 parties had entered into agreement
whereby plaintiff was to manage the hotel. At the time of this
agreement between the parties, hotel at Scott Road, Singapore was
under construction. The hotel opened on 1.4.1974. In May,1974,
plaintiff approached the defendant for reduction in management fees.
Discussion took place between the representatives of parties,
however, it did not bear any result. On 30.11.1974, the defendant
gave telex notice terminating
the agreement. Say of the defendant was fraudulent management and
breach of management agreement by the plaintiff. The Court considered
the case law cited before it and quoting the terms of agreement
liberally held that the agreement is not a contract of service and
that it is an agreement which the Court will specifically enforce.
Considering the nature and scope of the agreement and
also affidavit evidence placed before it, it held that damages would
inadequate remedy, no injustice would be suffered by the defendant if
the injunction is granted. It found that balance of convenience lies
in favour of the plaintiff. 17.	The other
two cases i.e. Taco Cabana International, Inc. s case 
932 F.2d 1113 and Fuddruckers, Inc. s case 826 F.2d 837
are the cases wherein complaint was made about infringement of trade
dress / trademark by the defendant. Both these cases are from USA.
In latter case, the Court has observed, trade dress infringement
..... is a complicated area of law made more difficult by a heavy
overlay of case law that seems at least facially inconsistent .... 
The said latter case was remanded by the Court. The order passed by
the Court in case of complaint in violation of trade dress and
trademark may not help much to the appellant. 18.	Similarly,
in Colgate Palmolive s case MANU/DE/1000/03 and United
Distillery Company s case 2000 PTC 502, the complaints were
made about use of trademark, its breach and passing off. In
former case, dispute arose between Colgate and Anchor Company and the
in latter case, dispute arose between Johnnie Walker name of
Scotch Whiskey and the defendant who started production of Guthka
and like product in the said name. The order passed in circumstances
of that case of complaint about breach of trademark may not be of
much help in the present case. Admittedly, no case of breach of
trademark in the present case. 19.	Reliance
was also placed on N. Srinivasa s case [2009 (5) SCC 182. It
mainly deals with plea whether time is essence of contract or not. In
that case, parties had entered into agreement to sell of immovable
property. Said agreement contains the condition of registration of
the deed within 60 days. On bare reading of even Head-Note, it would
appear that it does not help much to the appellant. 20.	Reliance
	was also placed on Base International Holding s case [1999
	(2) Arb.LR 433 (Madras)]. Learned Senior Advocate Shri Joshi had
	drawn attention to Para.12, 14 and 50, which read as under : Only from the
	counter affidavit dated 25.2.1997 the plaintiff discovered that on
	the one hand, the second defendant had issued the termination notice
	and on the other, he had been negotiating to his company, the third
	defendant, entered into a agreement with Hilton International, a
	competitor of the plaintiff. The defendants are guilty of not
	honouring their contractual obligation under the agreement including
	the negative covenants. The defendants had acted in carefully
	planned design to subvert and to defeat the legal and contractual
	rights of the plaintiff. 50.	Right from
the beginning of the hearing of the case what had been agitating my
mind was the conduct of the defendants, the second defendant in
particular, in unilaterally calling off the deal one fine morning,
i.e. on 10.2.1996. If it had alone been done, perhaps it would have
passed muster for not granting injunction in respect of negative
covenants, but then what was most disturbing was striking a deal with
Hilton International on the some day that in my view is the
height of dishonesty I do not subscribe to the line of thinking
that in business transactions straight-for-wardness is the first
casualty. While confabulating with the plaintiff, the second
defendant had been surreptitiously dealing behind the scene with
Hilton International all people and then he chose of call it off with
the plaintiff. The second defendant cannot make a virtue of the fact
that the defendants had already gone on record that prior to the
institution of the suit by the plaintiff, they had entered into an
agreement with Hilton International on 10.2.1996. What is the
consequence of this? Will it be enough if ultimately the plaintiff
succeeds, it could be satisfied with a decree for money. It should
be, is the contention of the defendants. 21.	Attention
was also drawn to Para.61 wherein the Court had observed that the
appellants, in case on hand, have a better case on facts than the
case before the Hon ble Supreme Court in Gujarat Bottling Company
and others case (1996 PTC 89). 22.	Now,
	reference may be made to case law relied on by learned Senior
	Advocate Shri Kamal Trivedi with Mr.Abhishek M. Mehta and
	Ms.Sangeeta Vishen on behalf of the respondent; Rajasthan Breweries
	Ltd. v. Strowh Brewery Company ,
	2000 (3) Arb.LR 509 (Delhi), Inhouse Production Pvt. Ltd. s case,
	Manu/TN/0169/05 (Madras), Mariott International Inc. s case
	(Supra), Country Development & Management Services Pvt. Ltd. s
	case (2006 (Suppl.) Arb.LR 248 (Delhi), IRCTC v. Cox & Kings
	India Ltd. s case [2012 (1) Arb.LR 184 (Delhi) and IRCTC v. Cox &
	Kings India Ltd. s case [2012 (3) Arb.LR 212 (SC), Dalpat Kumar s
	case [1992 (1) SCC 719 and Bast Sellers Retail India Pvt. Ltd. s
	case [(2012) 6 SCC 792 and other case laws. 22.1	Reliance
	was placed on Rajasthan Breweries Ltd. s case [2000 (3)
	Arb.L.R. 509 (Delhi)]. Shri Trivedi has drawn attention to Para.1 to
	7, 18 and 19. Therein the respondent had granted to the appellant an
	exclusive licence to produce stroh
	beer for 7 years which period was renewable further for 3
	years. The respondent had terminated the agreement alleging that 
	appellant had not only failed to meet the required quality and
	standard but, the appellant s inconsistency in production had led
	to frequent shortage in the market. The appellant had filed a
	petition under Section 8 of the Act seeking reference of dispute
	through arbitration. Simultaneously, it had also filed an
	application under Section 9 of the Act. The learned Single Judge had
	rejected the prayer, holding that agreement is determinable in
	nature. In appeal, the Division Bench agreed with the learned Single
	Judge and it had held that all revocable and voidable contracts may
	fall within the determinable contracts. The principle on which
	specific performance is not granted is that, ... the Court will
	not go through the idle ceremony of ordering execution of the deed
	which is revocable at the will of the executant. ... 22.2	Reliance
	was also placed on Inhouse Production Pvt. Ltd. s case
	[2005 (3) Arb.L.R. 52 (Madras). The dispute in that case relates to
	telecasting a serial, Vikramaditya . The appellant was seeking
	injunction in an application under Section 9 of the Act, praying
	that respondent be restrained from entering into any agreement with
	any third party pending the arbitration proceeding. There was
	agreement between appellant and respondent. The respondent had
	terminated the agreement, alleging that appellant has defaulted in
	making payments. In an application under Section 9 , the learned
	Single Judge had rejected the application holding that essential
	ingredients for granting interim injunction are not satisfied in the
	case on hand. It also held that granting interim relief amounts to
	granting specific performance of the contract of a personal service.
	The Division Bench agreed with the finding of the learned Single
	Judge. 22.3	
	Much reliance was placed on Mariott International Inc. s case
	[1982 (99) DLT 137]. In that case, the petitioner had entered into
	various agreements for construction of five star hotel at Saket, New
	Delhi. Pending these agreements, respondent had entered into an
	agreement with ITC. It was in total contravention of the agreement
	with the petitioner. In an application under Section 9 , the
	petitioner s main contention was that there was no valid
	termination of petitioner s agreement. The respondent had
	terminated the agreement with petitioner, alleging that petitioner
	has failed to perform its obligation under the agreement. It was the
	case of respondent that petitioner has failed to perform technical
	service agreement. In respect of other agreements, it was the say of
	the respondent that other agreement has yet not come into operation.
	The Court had quite elaborately considered the submissions made by
	learned advocate for the parties and at the end, the Court was
	pleased to refuse the interim relief. It may be stated that facts
	were very peculiar in that case compared to the facts of the present
	case in the sense that petitioner in that case was far better placed
	compared to the appellant herein, yet the interim relief in that
	case was refused. There was quite some debate about precedential 
	value of this case. It was pointed out by learned advocate for the
	appellant that this matter was carried in appeal before the Division
	Bench and the Division Bench had taken the view that application
	under Section 9 is not maintainable as the seat of Arbitral Tribunal
	in that case was outside the India. That being so, Part-I in which Section 9 is placed, do not apply to cases wherein seat of
	Arbitration is outside India. Other side has vehemently urged that
	law laid down in Mariott s case (Supra), holds good. Further, on
	this, I may say little later. 22.4	
	 Reliance was also placed on Royal Orchid s case [Manu
	TN/0451/2013 (Madras)]. The appellant in that case claims to run
	hotel on its own as well as claims to provide operational service
	whereby hotel will be managed by the appellant with established
	standard of quality and hospitality service. The parties had entered
	into an agreement on 3.7.2011, wherein the appellant undertook to
	operate and manage the hotel on its completion. Consultancy
	agreement for technical service was entered into on 30.6.2011. The
	agreement was entered into for a hotel to be established at Chennai.
	Hotel building owned by the respondent. Fees agreed between the
	parties was Rs.10 lacs. 50% advance was paid to the appellant. It
	appears that on apprehension of termination of agreement, the
	appellant had rushed to the Court. In an application under Section
	9 , interim relief was prayed that respondent be restrained from
	entering into agreement for management of hotel with any third
	party. It was the say of the appellant that respondent is
	negotiating with the third party. The other main grievance of the
	appellant was pace of work of respondent was such that operation
	schedule etc. cannot be maintained. On the other hand, it is the
	case of the respondent that one Bangalore based hotel group 
	Kamat Hotel had filed a trademark infringement suit against the
	appellant and in that suit, injunction is granted against the
	appellant for using the name Orchid. It was also the case of
	the respondent that technical service agreement has come to an end
	in June 2012 and operation agreement has yet not come into force.
	Further, it was the say of the respondent that parties had mutually
	agreed and had separated. The Court in that case had refused the
	interim relief by relying on the case laws cited before it, holding
	that contract was determinable in nature. It may be noted that in
	that case provision of notice to close the default within 30 days is
	broadly same and identical as in the present case. 22.5	Reliance
	was also placed on Country Development and Management s case
	[2006 (Supp.) Arb.L.R. 248 (Delhi)]. Carlson Company is registered
	company at USA. Its subsidiary known as CIS is engaged in
	hotel business. CIS owns and runs hotel on its own as well as it
	manages and gives franchise for running the hotel. CIS had entered
	into MoU in 1998 with the respondent. The parties had agreed to
	develop a hotel at Pune on the land owned by the respondent. By
	letter dated 8.4.2005, respondent had sought permission from
	petitioner to run the hotel and it also threatened that on failure
	to grant such permission, respondent would start operation of hotel
	to the exclusion of the petitioner. In an application filed under Section 9 of the Act, the petitioner had prayed for interim relief.
	It was the say of the respondent that as per the term of agreement,
	if the hotel does not start by the given date and if the compliance
	to start a hotel on that day, is not waived then respondent is not
	obliged to be bound by the agreement. It was also contended that
	total expenses for the construction of hotel etc. was born by the
	respondent only. The learned Single Judge has refused the
	injunction, holding that object of interim relief is to protect the
	appellant against violation of his right for which he could not be
	adequately compensated in damages recovered in an action, if the
	dispute is finally dissolved in favour of the appellant. It may be
	noted that in that case it was contended by the appellant that the
	appellant has invested six valuable years in the project. The
	appellant has also tried to point out that how it had taken interest
	during the construction of hotel. Further, the appellant has also
	contended that it has disclosed to the respondent confidential
	information in respect of marks, business system, specifications,
	operating manuals, policies etc. That the training manual of staff
	and employee is also disclosed to the respondent. Referring to the
	case cited above before it, the Court was pleased to reject the
	interim injunction, holding that essential ingredients for granting
	the interim relief are not satisfied. 22.6	Attention
		was also drawn to IRCTC s case [2012 (1) Arb.L.R. 184
		(Delhi)]. The Indian Railway Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC)
		runs train famously known as Maharaja Express. IRCTC entered
		into joint venture agreement with the respondent. The agreement was
		to run super luxury Majaraja Express train on certain route.
		The agreement was for 15 years with renewal clause. The joint
		venture agreement was entered into in December,2008. The respondent
		had terminated the agreement by letter dated 128.2011. It was the
		say of the respondent, inter-alia, that some misrepresentation was
		made by the appellant at the time of entering into agreement. In an
		application under Section 9 , the learned Single Judge had ordered
		status-quo till the decision by the Arbitral Tribunal and the
		learned Single Judge had also given some other directions. In an
		appeal before the Division Bench, various issues including the
		question whether relief of specific performance can be granted in
		an application under Section 9 of the Act on the basis of finding
		recorded by the learned Single Judge and it also considered that
		when Court records the finding that it cannot restore the agreement
		which is terminated, could it still pass an order that has an
		effect of continuing the agreement? In the end, the Division Bench
		was pleased to set aside the order of status-quo granted by the
		learned Single Judge. In that case, it was the say of the
		respondent that it had invested over Rs.45 crores to run this train
		for the period of 15 years. It was also contended that termination
		would not only cause monetary loss to the respondent but, it would
		affect its reputation and goodwill also. It may be noted that in
		that case, under joint venture agreement, train had run during one
		season i.e. September,2010 to April,2011. The Division Bench was
		pleased to hold that whether termination is bad in law or not and
		whether termination was justified or not, are the issues to be
		considered by the Arbitral Tribunal. It took the view that the
		appellant can be compensated by passing the money decree, if
		ultimately finding of the Arbitral Tribunal is in favour of the
		appellant. Disbelieving the submission of appellant for termination
		was, Bolt out of blue. It was held that differences were
		growing for quite some time as the correspondence on record shows.
		It held that, it is not a case of sudden stoppage, ... though
		the respondent may have entertained impression that differences
		would be sorted out. Referring the case laws cited before it,
		the Division Bench had concluded, as observed above, that appellant
		can be compensated by awarding damages and consequently, it held
		that issues and merits are to be considered by the Arbitrator. 22.7	IRCTC s
		case (Supra) was carried in appeal before the Supreme Court 
		[2012 (3) Arb.L.R. 212]. The Supreme Court was pleased to dismiss
		the appeal holding that joint venture agreement is not an agreement
		in nature of partnership. In response to the submission that
		appellant has incurred huge expenses, agreeing with the view taken
		by the Division Bench, it was pointed out that petitioner s
		remedy, if any, would lay in action for damages. 22.8	Reliance
		was also placed on Percept D. Mark s case [2006 (4) SCC 227. In that case, it was held that, assuming that submission about
		the effect of term of agreement is true, and the agreement in
		question is enforceable agreement, even then no interim relief
		would be granted for the reason amongst the other that
		appellant could be fully compensated by awarding suitable
		compensation, if the appellant finally succeeds in its case. It
		also held that no case is made out by the appellant for compelling
		the respondent No.1 to appoint appellant as its agent when the
		first respondent has no faith or trust in the appellant. 23.	At this
stage, a reference may be made to termination letter and reply to it
by the appellants, so that we may have idea about nature of
grievance. 24.	Letter of
termination is dated 8.4.2013. In the said letter, the respondent has
made following assertions : 25.	The
appellants had replied this notice by letter dated 17.5.2013. Say of
the appellants in its reply is, thus; That the
	allegations are factually incorrect and the same are made with
	malafide intention. On number of
	occasions, suggestions and recommendations of IHG for hotel were
	disregarded or ignored by the respondent or by the developer. These
	suggestions are well documented. That the alleged problem surfacing
	is attributable to the developer and to the respondent. That the IHG
	had not been privy
	to the contract between the developer and the owner. That the
	interior designer was not appointed for long time, as a result of
	that the developer was designing the hotel. IHG has pointed out that
	the interior designer is to be appointed. However, the advice of IHG
	was ignored. So far as the
	delay is concerned, it is primarily caused due to inadequate cash
	flow on the part of the respondent and also due to the structure of
	agreement between the respondent and the developer. Thus, the
	reasons for over cost are attributable to the respondent and
	developer. That the IHG has not provided any budget estimate. That the IHG
	has abide by the agreement and it is ready and willing to work as
	per the terms of the agreement. 25.1	In the
said reply to termination letter, the appellants also point out that
service fees that were required to be paid by the respondent to the
appellants in May,2010, was paid only in June,2012 when notice in
this regard was issued by the appellants. This instance is referred
in support of its say that, IHG has at each stage stood committed
to the project... The appellants in the end call upon the
respondent to pay outstanding service fees forthwith along with the
interest. 26.	The learned
Senior Advocates for the parties have drawn attention to following
material correspondence. 27.	Referring
the facts of the case, Shri Joshi has drawn attention to letters
dated 3.2.2011 (Page-1057), 31.12.2011 (Page-1061), 1.3.2012
(Page-1085), 26.3.2012 (Page-1087), 9.4.2012 (Page-1103), 30.8.2012
(Page-1110), 10.9.2012 (Page-1115), 10.9.2012 (Page-1118), 16.1.2013
(Page-1116) and 16.1.2013 (Page-1129). 28.	Shri
Trivedi has also referred to relevant correspondence between the
parties i.e. exchange of e-mail letters between the parties. They are
 dated 14.4.2012 (Page-1034 to 1037), 9.9.2013 (Page-1115 to 1117),
11.12.2012 (Page-1200 to 1201), 21.1.2013 (Page-1202 to 1203), again
21.1.2013 (Page-1202), 25.1.2013 (Page-1131), 15.2.2013 (Page-1132 to
1133), 11.3.2013 (Page-1204 to 1205), 19.3.2103 (Page-1206 to 1207),
1.4.2013 (Page-1139 Top), 2.4.2013 (Page-1141 Top) and 15.4.2013
(Page-1208). Relying on these e-mail letters, it was submitted that
it was not that respondent had terminated the agreement with the
appellants all of a sudden. It was submitted that roots of the
termination notice can be traced from these e-mail letters and
correspondence. 28.1	At the
time of hearing, attention was also drawn to following relevant
clauses; (i) Clause-1.4 Owner to construct the hotel (ii)
Clause-1.7 Brand standard (iii) Clause-2.1 Initial term (iv)
Clause-2.2 Right of extension (v) Clause-8 Personnel (vi)
Clause-8.1 Engagement of General Manager and other employees by
the Manager (vii) Clause-8.2 Employment of Personnel (viii)
Clause-11 Brand and trade-mark (ix) Clause-11.1 Installation
of signs (x) Clause-11.2 Ownership and usage of marks, customer
data and systems, (xi) Clause-11.3 Owner not to refer to the
marks in certain circumstances (xii) Clause-11.5 Right to
termination (xiii) Clause-11.6 Manager s right to removal. (xiv) Clause-15 Termination (xv) Clause-15.2 Material breach
(xvi) Clause-18 Applicable law and dispute resolution, (xvii)
Clause-18.1 Governing law and (xviii) Clause-18.2-Dispute
resolution. 29.	I
		may consider the case of the parties on merits. 30.	At
		the time of hearing, it was vehemently urged by learned Senior
		Advocate Shri Kamal Trivedi that opening of the hotel was
		unreasonably delayed. It was submitted that hotel was scheduled to
		open in December,2010. It could not open in 2011 and also not in
		2012. In one of the letters, the appellants suggested to open the
		hotel in October,2013. On this, the appellants in its reply to the
		letter of termination as referred above - points out that
		opening of hotel has delayed because of the inadequate cash flow by
		the respondent and secondly, because of the nature of agreement
		between the respondent and the developer. That the delay is caused
		on account of owner and developer. It would appear from this say of
		the appellants that whatever may be the reason for delay 
		there is some substance in grievance of the respondent that opening
		of hotel was delayed. As to the reason for delay, viz., inadequate
		cash flow from the respondent, it may be stated that not a single
		letter / correspondence or the circumstances shown by the
		appellants in support of this assertion. Further, though the
		delayed opening of hotel was argued with vehemence by the
		respondent at the time of hearing, no serious attempt was made by
		the appellants to refute this assertion by pointing out that in
		reality, it was on account of failure on the part of respondent to
		make the timely arrangement for the suitable funds. Therefore, this
		ground of delay advanced by the appellants cannot be accepted. 31.	 As to
	the second reason for delayed opening, it can be said that nature of
	agreement between owner/respondent and the developer is not in
	issue. Perhaps, the say of the appellants that opening delayed on
	account of developer may not be incorrect but, in a sense it is more
	or less argument of convenience. That apart, there is also material
	on record to disbelieve this ground advanced by the appellants. In
	one of the e-mail letter written by the manager who is
	appellants appointee writes to the President of his company /
	appellants and to the others wherein the manager makes complaint
	about delaying of the project on account of Design and Engineering
	(D&E) Department of the appellants. He says that the said
	Department has delayed the project by making suggestions by sitting
	in Ivory Towers i.e. in the office of the appellants. In
	another letter, said manager also points out that respondent has
	incurred additional expenses of Rs.20 crores + he is incurring
	Rs.50 lacs as a pre-opening expenses every month. In view of this
	material on record, it cannot be said that delay in opening of the
	hotel is not at all attributable to the appellants. It may also be
	noted that Mr.Sanjay Majmudar, Chartered Accountant of the
	respondent in fairly detailed letter to the appellants has
	inter-alia pointed out, .... even on the ground floor, they have
	provided for special open type of kitchen, bakery etc. which,
	according to Savvy, is unheard of in any Crown Plaza worldwide....
	and also, .... Savvy has blamed IHG for this kind of lavish
	planning without serious consultation (sic - consideration)
	on the cost implications.... . Savvy is developer / builder. 32.1	It is
	interesting to note that though delayed opening of hotel was
	vehemently urged at the time of hearing, the respondent does not
	complaint specifically about causing delay in opening of hotel in
	termination letter, yet appellants defend the same in its reply to
	termination letter. 33.	Prima
	facie grievance that opening of the hotel was delayed is
	possible to believe. Say of the appellants in this regard is
	referred hereinabove. Let the Arbitrator decide the reason for
	occurring delay and who is responsible for the same. 34.	Learned
	Senior Advocate Shri Mihir Joshi for the appellants, opening the
	submission on behalf of the appellants has pointed out that
	agreement in the present case is not determinable in nature. Much
	emphasis was placed on this. The question that whether such
	agreement can be considered to be determinable in nature or not, is
	considered earlier in many cases by different High Courts. As
	referred above, in Rajasthan Beverages (Supra) (Delhi High Court)
	and in Royal Orchid s case (Supra) (Madras High Court) has held
	that agreement is determinable in nature. On the other hand, in
	Adhunik Steel s case (Supra), the Orissa High Court has taken the
	view that agreement is not determinable in nature. I am inclined to
	agree with the view taken by the Orissa High Court (AIR 2005 Orissa 113) . It may be stated that Adunik Steel s case (Supra) was
	carried in appeal before the Hon ble Supreme Court. On this point,
	the Hon ble Supreme Court had upheld the view taken by the Orissa
	High Court. In the present case, in Para.15.2 it is specifically
	provided to call upon the other side i.e. non-defaulting party to
	close the breach within 30 days. It takes care of both types of
	breach i.e. breach which is capable of being remedied and breach
	which is not capable of being remedied. Thus, the agreement clearly
	provides mode of determination. Relevant Clause 15 in the agreement
	between the parties reads thus; 15.	TERMINATION
: However, if
the default is not capable of being cured, the non-defaulting party
may serve a notice on the defaulting party providing details of the
alleged default and specifying an amount of compensation, to be paid
to the non-defaulting party within sixty (60) days after the
non-defaulting party s serving the notice on the defaulting party,
for which the non-defaulting party is willing to settle the default.
If such sixty (60) day period expires without the non-defaulting
party receiving the compensation required in its notice or adequate
compensation to the reasonable satisfaction of the non-defaulting
party, then at any time within six (6) months of the date of
expiration of such sixty (60) day period, (or within one (1) month if
such sixty (60) day period expires at a time less than six (6) months
prior to the Expected Completion Date as provided in Item 6 of the
Details), the non-defaulting party has the right to terminate this
Contract by notice to the defaulting party. xxx	xxx	xxx
		 

		xxx	xxx	xxx 35.	What is
	meant by determinable? Its dictionary meaning as per Oxford English
	Dictionary is, (I) Fixed definable (ii) Able to be authoritatively
	decided, definitely fixed or definitely ascertained and (iii) Liable
	to come to an end, terminable. In the earlier Act i.e. Specific
	Relief Act,1877 Clause (d) of Section 21 had used the word
	 revocable . The Law Commission had suggested that revocable 
	is not the proper expression. Following the recommendation of Law
	Commission, the word determinable is introduced. So, word
	 determinable can be considered as a synonyms of word
	 revocable . Further, when term in question in the agreement is
	not incomplete, or not lacking in clarity or it is not uncertain and
	such term or terms of the agreement is breached and question arose
	for determination whether the agreement is determinable or not, then
	answer most likely than not , in all cases would be in negative
	i.e. not determinable. How to consider that agreement is
	determinable in nature or not? In Rajasthan Breweries Ltd. s case 
	(supra) gives one test, viz., all voidable agreements are revocable
	and such agreements are determinable. In Adhunik Steel s case
	(supra), the Orissa High Court took the view that provision of
	closing the breach i.e. calling upon the other side to remedy the
	breach within 90 days makes the agreement not determinable at the
	instance of either party. In Mariott International Inc. s case the
	Court found that agreement is not specifically enforceable on
	account of Section 14(1)(a) and 14(1)(b) . Clause- (c) does not
	appear to have been specifically considered by the Court. One way of
	looking at it, is to ask the question whether it is possible to
	issue order of specific performance and possible to enforce that
	order? In other words, the Court would not issue idle or formal
	order or the direction. The Court would not issue futile direction.
	Obviously, the facts and circumstances of the case mainly the
	terms of the agreement would decide whether it is just, proper
	and legal to enforce the agreement or not. Determinability of the
	agreement may be determined by applying the test of propriety. 35.1	In the
	present case, it is not in dispute that initial term of contract was
	for 20 years. This term is clear. It is also provided in the
	agreement that after expiry of initial term of 20 years, further
	extension of five years would be automatic. The parties had
	entered into agreement in 2008. The respondent issued termination
	letter in 2013. There is a breach in respect of period for which the
	parties had agreed to work jointly and further providing of mode of
	determination even in the case where breach is not possible to
	remedied makes the agreement not determinable in nature. 36.	The effect
	of holding that agreement is not determinable is, the appellants
	will be entitled to specific performance or to be precise, one of
	the impediments in the way of the appellants in the form of refusal
	of specific performance in cases of contract stands removed. But
	that does not mean that Court will not take into consideration the
	facts and circumstances of the given case or that the other
	considerations for granting interim relief in the form of injunction
	or specific performance will not come into play. For instance,
	monetary compensation, may be adequate remedy [ Section 14(1)(a) ].
	Further, while the relief of specific performance is discretionary
	relief means facts and circumstances of the case would
	prevail, in case of relief of injunction essential ingredients i.e.
	prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable loss
	or not, are to be considered by the Court. 37.	This led
	me to consider the essential ingredients of granting injunction.
	Learned Senior Advocate Shri Mihir Joshi is right in his submission
	that it is possible to draw conclusion from the submission of the
	respondent that triable issue arises for consideration in the
	present case. It may be recalled that in the present case, agreement
	between the parties was for 20 years + clause for renewal of the
	period and against this, it is the say of the appellants that the
	respondent has terminated the agreement, when the hotel was on the
	verge of opening, out of blue. It was also submitted that no
	previous complaint or grievance at any time voiced by the
	respondent. The respondent disputed this submission, viz., no
	complaint at earlier point of time made by the respondent. The
	respondent also disputed that termination is all of sudden. The case
	does give rise to triable issue. Therefore, the appellants have a
	prima facie case. As to the
	other ingredients for granting injunction, it was submitted by
	learned advocate for the appellants that it is impossible to
	calculate the damage. It was contended that there is no formula to
	calculate how well the hotel will have run if it would have
	operated and managed by the appellants. Then, it was also submitted
	by the learned advocate for the appellants that in the process of
	commencing the work of setting up of a hotel of a high standard, the
	appellants being well experienced in the field have shared
	confidential information with the respondent. How would you assess
	or evaluate the use of confidential information in the project. As to the
	former submission, it was pointed out by learned advocate for the
	respondent that appellants have provided projections wherein
	income and profit that may be derived from the project in the first
	three years period is calculated by the appellants and specific
	figure of profit that this project would earn is provided and
	pointed out in the projections. In this regard, attention was drawn
	to Page-168 (Vol.-I). In view of this material on record, the
	submission that what hotel will earn in future is not possible to
	calculate, cannot be accepted. It may also be stated that otherwise
	also this submission is also not possible to accept. In theory,
	 Yes future income or profit may not be possible to calculate.
	But mere submission that what in future, hotel may earn is not
	possible to measure by itself may not be sufficient. Uncertainty of
	future will present in all the cases. The appellants cannot succeed
	merely on this submission. It is too general and too broad
	proposition to uphold. Further, this may not be mixed up or
	compared with the irreparable injury. Both are distinct and
	different. To say that interim relief be granted to the appellants
	as how well the hotel may have run jointly is not possible to
	measure, is a one thing and to say that not granting of interim
	relief, as prayed, would result in irreparable loss, is a different
	thing. In this context, it may also be noted that the grievance of
	the appellants in its reply to termination notice is only for
	payment of remaining unpaid amount of service fee which the
	appellants claim with interest. As to the
	grievance that appellants have shared confidential information with
	the respondent, it may be stated that this aspect was urged also in
	Mariott s case (Supra) and also in Country Development s case
	(Supra). In Mariott s case (Supra), interim relief was
	specifically urged by advancing plea of disclosure of confidential
	information to the other side. This plea did not weigh with the
	Court in that case and as referred above , in Country Development s
	case (Supra), the appellant had urged that it has made disclosure of
	confidential information in the form of marks, business system,
	specifications, operating manual and policies etc. It was also
	contended that the appellant has disclosed training manual of staff
	and employee. However, in both these cases, as referred above , the
	Court was pleased to refuse the interim relief. It may also be noted
	that the appellants herein have charged the service fee. The
	appellants are already paid over Rs.47,29,000/-. Further, the
	appellants claim to be an expert in the hotel business and they
	have hotel at USA, China and in other countries, if it is so it is
	less likely that the appellants may have shared some more crucial
	confidential information particularly when the hotel was yet not
	opened. The attractive submission of sharing of confidential
	information is not possible to accept. Now, reference
	may be made to the submission of learned Senior Advocate Shri Kamal
	Trivedi that respondent has lost faith and confidence in the
	appellants. It was submitted by the learned advocate for the
	appellants that termination letter was out of blue. It is not
	that the respondent was making complaint / grievance about working
	of the appellants prior to termination also and that termination is
	just end result of those complaints. It was also submitted by the
	appellants that just less than one month before they have jointly
	performed the Pooja at hotel. Against this, it is the say of
	the respondent that reference to the correspondence e-mail
	letters would support the say of the respondent about loosing
	the faith and confidence in the appellants. Reading of these, it was
	submitted, would show that discontentment was brewing. I may refer
	just one instance of fire and safety audit. This instance had added
	fuel to their problem of opening the hotel at an early date. In
	February,2013, the appellants informed the respondent that the
	person, who was assigned fire and safety audit, had proceeded to
	Canada and he would not be available till April. The appellants,
	therefore, advised to the respondent to appoint another person as a
	fire auditor. Accordingly, opinion of another person / auditor was
	solicited. Said another auditor has suggested change in 85 items, of
	which 60 to 70 items were approved by the previous auditor.
	Even the manager of the hotel also disapproved the approach of later
	auditor. Oddly, in contrast to this happening, the respondent had
	moved the Fire Safety Division of Municipal Corporation and it
	obtained certificate from the said Department in January,2013. 41.1	On
one hand, it is the say of the respondent that they have lost faith
and confidence in the appellants and on the other hand, it is the say
of the appellants that termination letter came out of blue. The say
of the appellants, - if one try to gather from the reply to the
termination letter it would appear that in fairly detailed reply
given by the appellants, the tone of the appellants is defensive one
and claim of the appellants is for outstanding service fees. The
defensive tone that can be discerned from the reply to the
termination letter is not consistent with assertive tone of learned
Senior Advocate for the appellants urging that the appellants are the
victim of the wrongful action of termination of agreement by the
respondent. Lastly, I may
	refer to the submission of learned Senior Advocate Shri Kamal
	Trivedi that act of respondent of terminating the agreement may not
	be wise or it may even bad and illegal, but it is a matter of
	perception. The submission is, the respondent may be asked to pay
	the damages. The submission is attractive, however, as a general
	proposition, it may turn out to be too broad. That how far this
	submission is acceptable, may be considered in appropriate case. It
	is enough to say that demarcating line has to be drawn. Perception
	goes wrong may be tolerated but if it goes wild, the Court would
	intervene by granting appropriate injunctive relief. The party
	cannot disregard the agreement and flout its terms at sweet choice
	and whims and urge that his/its action not found to be legal,
	damages be awarded to the other side. In substance, one s
	perception ought to be reasonable. It may also be stated that party
	cannot sail successfully in all situations under every circumstances
	on the plea of perception. It has to be conceded that to
	considerable extent, the facts and circumstances of the case would
	decide that such a plea should be accepted or not. It is true that
	there should be proper appreciation of facts and circumstances of
	the case. Beside that, the Court may weigh the action of termination
	of agreement on the touchstone of reasonableness. One s
	perceptions ought to be within circle of reasonableness. It is also
	true that principles that hold good for administrative law could
	not, strictly speaking, attracted in the realm of contractual
	relationship, more so when the parties are private parties. But the
	fact that agreement and action has to pass through the test of
	public policy reduced this distinction between question arising
	under administrative law and it arising from contractual obligation
	between the private parties as an academic one. For appreciating
	reasonableness, one may profitably refer to the test of
	 reasonableness as laid down in Om Praskash s case (AIR 2004
	SC 1896, at P.1930). Further, the plea that proprietary of
	termination of agreement is a matter of one s perception, also
	attracts the principle of proportionality. This principle is
	developed by laying down the balancing test and test of 
	necessity test in Coimbatore District Central Cooperative Bank s
	case [2007 (4) SCC 669. In appropriate case, limits of theory of
	perception may be considered. In the present case, case of
	appellants otherwise also fails. 43.	Among the
	cases cited by learned advocates for the parties, six cases are such
	wherein parties were engaged in hotel business as in the instant
	case. Generally speaking, the relief claimed in all those cases is
	almost same / identical to the relief claimed in the present case.
	It is somewhat dramatic that if conclusion of all those cases,
	considered together, it would appear that its result hang in balance
	in the sense that in three hotel cases, the Court had refused the
	relief and in three hotel cases, the Court had granted the relief. 
	But if we weigh the cases wherein relief was refused versus cases
	wherein relief was granted by the Court, it would appear that scale
	of former far outweigh the later. The reasons are; beside the fact
	that of three cases wherein Court had granted injunction, In two
	cases, judgments were by the foreign Court, there are also other
	distinguishing feature of those cases. First I may refer the
	objection raised by respondent in placing reliance on foreign cases.
	It was submitted by the respondent that foreign case has no
	precedential value. In this regard, reliance was placed on Burn
	and Co. v. McDonald , (1909) ILR 36 Cal 354 and in Ganpatlal v.
	Nandlal Haswani & Ors. , AIR 1989 MP 209. It is not necessary to
	deal with this contention of respondent in detail. It is enough to
	say that mode of dealing with the issue and consideration that
	weighed with the Court in resolving the controversy, line of
	reasoning adopted by the Court etc., if throws light on the issue
	that arise for consideration in the case on hand, then Court would
	not be committing any error in referring and even on relying on the
	foreign case law. It would be too technical to discard such decision
	by labeling it as a foreign case law. Bearing this test in mind i.e.
	permissible to look at it profitably - if we refer Holiday Inn case
	(supra), it would appear that in that case, Court had granted
	interim relief bearing in mind the facts and circumstances of that
	case only and without laying down any principle for general
	application. The Court therein quotes quite liberally the terms of
	the agreement between the parties. As to the Page Guide s case
	(Supra), it may be bear in
	mind that facts of that case was typical and
	further, the appellants have undertaken to re-furnish the hotel by
	spending over 1.5 Million Pounds. Further, Regent in that case had
	 purchased Dorchester hotel. Then, when it was re-purchased 
	on behalf of Ritz hotel, the Regent had expressly reserved rights
	about its management in agreement entered into between the parties.
	In contrast to that case, the claim of the appellants is just unpaid
	service fee. The third hotel case wherein injunction was granted by
	the Court i.e. Base International Holding s case (supra),
	dishonesty appeared and believed even prima facie
	and it is in that circumstance, as referred above, injunction came
	to be granted in that case. Together with this distinguishing
	feature, if we bear in mind those three cases wherein material facts
	and circumstances of the case has given way to refusal of interim
	relief and if we read all these, hotel cases where granting of
	interim relief was considered and apply the same to the facts and
	circumstances of the case on hand, it would appear that as
	observed above scale lean in favour of refusing the interim
	relief. In Royal Orchid s case (Supra), the technical service
	agreement had come to an end at the time of termination. The
	provision of notice to close the default was identical to the
	present case. One may also bear in mind that service fee was also
	agreed in that case and partly it was paid. But more than Royal
	Orchid s case, it is Mariott International Inc. s case (Supra)
	and Country Development s case (Supra) which are the real villain
	for the appellants. In later case, grievances of the appellant were,
	that it has invested six valuable years for the project (more than
	the present appellants), that it has taken interest in the project
	during the construction (in the present case, respondent has
	grievance against the appellants about this validity of the say
	of the respondent may be decided by the Arbitrator), then as in the
	present case, in that case also it was pointed out by the appellant
	that it has made disclosure of confidential information to the 
	respondent reference to it made hereinabove
	 all these plea did not find favour with the Court in Country
	Development s case (Supra). As to the Mariott International Inc. s
	case (Supra), as observed above, there was quite some debate about
	the precedential value of it. Attempt was not made by referring one
	or other typical aspect of that case or by emphasizing the
	distinguishing facts of that case. In Mariott International Inc. s
	case (supra), on which reliance was placed by the respondent, the
	Court proceeded to examine the merits of the case without
	considering the maintainability of the petition. The Court
	considered the case on merits at quite some length. Then, before the
	Division Bench, plea of maintainability was raised and it weighed
	with the Court. It was pointed out at the time of hearing in the
	present appeal that the Supreme Court, in Bhattia International s
	case 2002 (4) SCC 105, took the view that such applications are
	maintainable, as Part-I ( Section 9 ) is equally applicable to
	international commercial arbitration whose seat is outside
	India, unless..... This point was again examined by the Constitution
	Bench in Bharat Aluminum s case (2012 (9) SCC 592 (decided on
	6.9.2012) wherein it held that Part-I ( Section 9 ) is not applicable
	in such cases. Thus, the view taken in Bhattia International s
	case (Supra) came to be set aside in this later case. However, in
	view of the fact that uncertainty over the question was prevailing
	and particularly Bhatiya International s case was holding the
	field till this decision by Constitution Bench came, it was held
	that this later decision would have prospective effect and
	operation. That all the arbitration agreements executed earlier to
	the date of decision of Bharat Aluminum s case would not have
	applicability of view taken by the Constitution Bench. So, operation
	of opinion of learned Single Judge in Mariott International Inc. s
	case (Supra) was saved by the Constitution bench. 43.1	The
	appellants who are seasoned operator in the field of hotel business,
	are less likely to be unaware of the law prevailing in this field.
	That apart, if in Mariott International Inc. s case (Supra),
	appellants even with comparatively better case on facts, fails 
	the case of the present appellant shall also fail. 44.	It was
	also submitted by learned Senior Advocate Shri Joshi that agreement
	between the parties was unique in nature and because of its such
	special venture, in case wherein question is propriety of
	termination of agreement, damages would not be adequate remedy. It
	was also submitted that proper remedy in such case is to grant
	specific performance. In this regard, reference was made and
	reliance was placed on Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act. It was
	also submitted, in the alternate that it is a typical kind of joint
	venture agreement which attracts Section 10 of the Act. 45.	As to the
	submission that it is a special kind of joint venture agreement, it
	is enough to say that clause 17.1 of the agreement is contrary to
	this submission. It specifically says that present agreement between
	the parties is not a joint venture agreement. As to the submission
	that agreement is unique in nature, it was not pointed out at the
	time of hearing that what makes the present agreement unique one. Is
	it possible to say that it is not an usual business / commercial
	agreement? In case laws referred to and relied on by the learned
	advocates for the parties in so many cases parties did enter
	into management agreement. In none of the cases, Court had elevated
	such agreement to the status of unique agreement. It is not
	the say of the appellants that management agreement in the present
	case is distinct and different and peculiar compare to the
	management agreement in cases referred to and relied on by the
	parties. But then the agreement would loose its flavour of
	 uniqueness if it is possible to compare it with other cases.
	So, apart from the fact that, in none of the cases management
	agreement is considered unique agreement in the present case,
	as observed above, uniqueness is not clearly pointed out. It is not
	possible to agree with the submission that agreement in the present
	is unique in nature. The conclusion
	of the trial court does not call for any interference. In the
	present case, the other two essential ingredients balance of
	convenience and irreparable loss are not in favour of the
	appellants. It is also important to note that till the hearing of
	appeal concluded, no petition is filed before the Arbitrator. That
	the appellants have yet to move the Arbitrator. This circumstance
	also goes against the appellants. There is no
	case made out for granting of interim relief or interim direction.
	Therefore, the appeal fails and same is dismissed. (R.D.KOTHARI, J.) 

 

 

 

 

 

 FURTHER
ORDER
 

 

 

 

 

	At
this stage, learned advocate Shri Sandeep Singhi for the appellants
prays that statement of learned Senior Advocate Shri Kamal Trivedi
operating till today, be continued at least for a period of 3 weeks
to enable the appellants to approach the higher forum. Opposing
the aforesaid request, learned Senior Advocate Shri Kamal Trivedi
submitted that in pursuance to the statement made on behalf of the
respondent, the respondent has entered into negotiation with the
third party, and the matter has been prolonged for quite some time at
the interim stage. It is also submitted
that the respondent is incurring expenditure to the tune of Rs.4
crores every month which causes great hardship and injustice to the
respondent. Considering
the submissions made by learned advocates for the parties, the
statement of learned Senior Advocate Shri Kamal Trivedi for the
respondent recorded in order dated 10.7.2013 passed in First Appeal
No.1757 of 2013, which was extended from time to time and which is
operating till today, let it be continued till 5.12.2013. The Office
shall deliver the copy of the order before 26.11.2013. (R.D.KOTHARI,
J.) 

 

 

 

(vipul)
 

	 

	Page 46 of 46