In the first quarter of 2019, YouTube removed over 78,000 channels and 800,000 videos that compromised child safety.

The company, in a blog post , highlighted policies it has enforced in the recent past to protect children from becoming subjects of or being subjected to inappropriate content on YouTube:

The Indian government and judiciary have also been fighting the uphill battle of protecting children from ‘harmful’ content online. In the last couple of years, they have taken stringent action on issues of teenage suicide caused by social media interactions, pornography, and cyber-bullying.

In November 2017, the Supreme Court of India disposed of a plea seeking a ban on the Blue Whale game, which allegedly gave children and teenagers a series of increasingly dangerous tasks and culminated with ordering the players to kill themselves. Instead, the Supreme Court directed all states and union territories to spread awareness in schools about the danger of such games.

During a previous hearing, the court had also directed Doordarshan and private TV channels to air a prime-time programme warning people about the grisly game.

Here are the steps that the Union government took:

On April 3, the Madras High Court temporarily banned TikTok after it found that the platform hosted pornographic content. Since the Chinese video-sharing app is popular amongst teenagers, the court said that it was worried about the content affecting children and making them vulnerable to sexual predators. As a result, MeitY directed Google and Apple to remove the app from their app stores. However, users who had downloaded the app prior to the ban and removal from app stores were able to continue using the app.

However, on April 22, the Supreme Court directed the Madras High Court to take a decision on the interim ban by April 24, failing which, the ban would be lifted. The Madras HC lifted the interim ban on April 24.

TikTok, since the ban has taken several self-regulatory steps:

In response to an 11-year-old’s PIL seeking a ban on PUBG for promoting violence, aggression and cyber-bullying, the Bombay HC directed the Union government to look into the app and ban it, if necessary.

In some cities, including Rajkot, the game had been temporarily banned. To combat addiction amongst Indian players, PUBG Mobile implemented a six-hour playing limit on Indian players.

Update: This story has been rewritten following editorial direction.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event