BY HON'BLE MR. RAKESH SAGAR JAIN, MEMBER (J) 1. The applicant (Vikash Kumar Sah) has filed this Original
 Application (in short OA) under section 19 of the Administrative
 Tribunals Act. 1985 (in short Act) with the prayer for the following
 reliefs:- 2. Case of applicant Vikas Kumar Sah is that in response to
 advertisement dated 24.08.2013 issued by railway-department
 for recruitment to the posts in Group - D, he on basis of admit
 card appeared in the written examination where the applicant
 after showing his admit card, gave his thumb impression on
 biometric machine and signed the OMR sheet and the
 examination was conducted under videography. As per the
 website of respondent, applicant was declared selected and
 directed to appear in Physical Efficiency Test on 10.02.2015 3 which was conducted under videography and applicant also
 gave his thumb impression on the biometric machine and
 signature and was declared successful on same date i.e.
 10.02.2015. Respondents No. 4 issued letter dated 12.03.2015 for
 document verification and medical test on 11.04.2015 and in
 this process of verification of documents, applicant submitted
 his documents, gave thumb impression on biometric machine
 and signatures in Hindi and English and wrote 4 to 5 lines in Hindi
 and English and was also found medically fit. 3. It has been further averred in the O.A. that show cause notice
 dated 10.07.2015 (Annexure No. 5) was issued to him by
 respondent No. 3 stating therein that as per report of Forensic
 Document Examiner, signature/handwriting on application
 form, attendance sheet, answer sheet and document
 verification form were of different persons and to file his
 defence in writing. Rejecting his defence, respondent No. 3
 vide letter dated 18.11.2015 (Annexure No.7) cancelled his
 candidature for the said recruitment and also debarred the
 applicant from all R.R.C/R.R.B examination for lifetime. Hence,
 the present O.A. 4. In the counter affidavit, the stand of the respondents is as
 below:- 5. We have heard and considered the arguments of the learned
 counsels for the parties and gone through the pleadings filed
 by the parties as well as written arguments filed by applicant.
 Learned counsel for applicant relied upon Rajesh Kumar Vs.
 Union of India , 2014 LawSuit (ALL) 3684, Writ -A No. 52779 of
 2014 titled Ashit Kumar Vs. Union of India and others decided on
 19.10.2016 by Hon'ble Allahabad High Court and Ran Vijay
 Singh Vs. Union of India and others , 2018 LawSuit (All) 740. 6. Before proceeding further, it would be pertinent to refer to the
 contents of show cause notice, reply thereto and the
 impugned order, which are reflected as below:- No. Ka/NER/RRC/Show Cause/ADate: 10.07.2015
 Name; VIKASH KUMAR SAH Roll No. 30033123
 S/o KAMAL SAH
 Add. VILL & P.O. KATOUNA, PS MALAYPUR. District JAMUI, State BIHAR PIN Code. Sub: Show Cause Notice. On the written examination/PET organized by
 RRC/NER/Gorakhpur for recruitment to Group D posts
 against Employment Notice No. NER/RRC/D/4/2013-14
 dt. 24.08.2013, you were called for document
 verification. On the basis of differences observed, in the
 photographs/signatures/writing/thumb impressions, your
 documents were sent to Forensic Document Examiner,
 Forensic Document Examiner has confirmed that 6 signatures/writings on application form and that on
attendance sheets and answer sheet are of different
persons. It has been established that you did not appear
yourself in the written examination/PET, and thereby tried
to procure government job by fraud and criminal
means. You are therefore, required to explain within 30 days as
to why your candidature against the said employment
notice be cancelled and action be taken for debarring
you from all RRC/RRB Examinations in future and to
initiate criminal proceedings against you. (ii) Defence of Applicant (Annexure A-6) 7 ". (iii) Impugned order (Annexure A-7)

 Railway Recruitment Cell
 North Eastern Railway
 CCM Annexe Building
 Rly. Road No.14
 Gorakhpur 273012. No. Ka/NER/RRC/Show Cause/A Date: 18.11.2015.
 Name; VIKASH KUMAR SAH Roll No. 30033123
 S/o KAMAL SAH
 Add. VILL & P.O. KATOUNA, PS MALAYPUR. District JAMUI, State BIHAR PIN Code. Sub:Debarring from examination of all Railway
 Recruitment Boards/Cells for lifetime. Ref: 1. Show Cause Notice of even No. dated 10.07.15. 2. Your representation dated Nil. On the basis of written examination organized by
 RRC, Gorakhpur for recruitment for Group 'D' posts vide
 employment Notice No. NER/RRC/D/04/2013-14 dated
 24.08.2013, you were called for the document verification.
 As confirmed by the Forensic Document Examiner,
 signature/hand writing on application form and that on 8 attendance sheet, answer sheet and Document
 verification form were of different person. Reasonable opportunity was extended to you vide
 letter under reference to present your defence in writing
 within 30 days. The representation received from you was
 put up to the competent authority for consideration. In
 your representation, you could not bring forth any facts to
 disprove the finding of the Forensic Document Examiner. It
 has been established that you did not appear yourself in
 the written examination/PET on your behalf, and thereby
 tried to procure government job by fraud and criminal
 means. In view of Railway Board's letter No. E
 (RRB)/2001/25/1 dated 11.7.2001, the competent authority
 has decided to cancel your candidature for this
 recruitment and to debar you from all RRC/RRB
 examinations for lifetime. 7. As per the O.A., on all the levels of the recruitment process, the
 applicant had given his thumb impression on biometric
 machine and examination was conducted under videography.
 These facts have not been denied by the respondents. 8. As per the show cause notice, the allegation against applicant
 is that on the basis of difference observed in the
 photographs/signature/writings/thumb impression, the
 documents of applicant were sent to Forensic Document
 Examiner, who confirmed that the signatures/writing on
 application form, attendance sheet and answersheet are of
 different persons and it has been established that you did not
 appear in the written examination/P.E.T. 9. In the reply to the show cause notice, applicant has denied the
 allegations of the respondents and submitted that he had given 9 the exam personally and this would be clear from the thumb
 impression as well as the videography. 10. However, in the impugned order dated 18.11.2015, it has been
 mentioned that it stands confirmed by the forensic Document
 Examiner that the signatures/handwriting on application form,
 attendance sheet, answer sheet and document verification
 form were of different person. 11. It would be pertinent to note that in the show cause notice, it
 has been observed that on differences observed in the
 photographs/signatures/writing/thumb impression, the
 document was sent to Forensic Document Examiner who
 confirmed that the signatures/writing on the various documents
 are of different person and that the applicant did not appear
 himself in the written examination/P.E.T. However, in the
 impugned order it is mentioned that the signature/handwriting
 on the various documents were of different person. Therefore,
 both the show cause notice and the impugned order differ
 insofar as photograph and thumb impression are concerned. In
 the show cause notice, it is mentioned that there are
 differences in the photographs and thumb impression as well
 but the same does not find mention in the impugned order. 12. Apart from the aforementioned omissions, the questions remain
 unanswered that the applicant was admitted to the written
 examination on the basis of admit card which bears his
 photographs and therefore, it would have been impossible for
 another person to appear in the place of applicant to give the
 written examination. Even otherwise, applicant has alleged that
 the entire exercise at the various levels of the recruitment
 process is videographed and therefore, it would have been
 possible for the respondents to see whether the physical
 appearance of the applicant tallies with the physical
 appearance as coming out in the videography. 13. Another factor which cast a doubt is the allegation of applicant
 that he had put his thumb on the biometric machine and,
 therefore, the respondents could have easily taken his thumb
 impression and matched the same with the thumb impression
 on the biometric machine, which the respondents have not
 done so. Handwriting can differ from time to time but
 photographs and thumb impression cannot differ substantially. 14. In these circumstances, the impugned order dated 18.11.2015 is
 set aside and the case of applicant is remitted back to the
 respondents to reconsider after due verification of photograph
 and thumb impression of the applicant with the official record
 and thereafter pass a speaking and reasoned order within a
 period of 3 months from the date of receipt of certified copy of
 this order. During said process of settling the issue of
 impersonation, the applicants shall not be debarred from
 appearing in the examination conducted by the RRBs/RRCs.
 O.A. is accordingly disposed of. No order as to costs. No order
 as to costs.