We missed this earlier: On August 21, the Government of Delhi released a gazette notification for voluntary Aadhaar authentication of street vendors, aimed at conducting a survey of street vendors in the area under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and disburse direct benefit transfers (DBTs).

The day after, the Ministry of Finance released a gazette notification approving Go-Digit Life Insurance Limited and Acko Life Insurance Limited for carrying out Aadhaar authentication. These developments were first flagged by journalist Aditi Agrawal on X.

The state government intends to create a database of street vendors using this data. The attached consent form informed that the Urban Development Department of the Delhi Government will use this database to determine which vendors are eligible for various schemes, services, and projects. It will also be used to disburse welfare benefits through DBT.

The Delhi government mentioned that the central government gave its Urban Development Department permission to authenticate street vendors on May 10, 2024. The state can carry out: a simple Yes/No authentication (to check if the Aadhaar number is valid) and/or e-KYC (electronic Know Your Customer) authentication. Additionally, the chairman of the New Delhi Municipal Council will announce alternative identification methods for those opting out of Aadhaar authentication.

In an analysis of the Aadhaar authentication system last year, Moody’s Investors Service explained that this system often results in service denials. For example, it mentioned how the “reliability of biometric technologies, especially for manual laborers in hot, humid climates, is questionable.” It argued the security and privacy risks posed by the centralized Aadhaar system have led to a shift towards decentralised digital identity systems.

There have also been other reports of how complications related to Aadhaar authentication have denied people access to government schemes. For instance, students in Tamil Nadu have reported complications with receiving scholarships for higher education as a result of Aadhaar-based authentication. Similarly, many have used cloned fingerprints to bypass Aadhaar authentication and withdraw money from people’s Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS) accounts. This suggests that this system isn’t entirely foolproof, and the government’s use of it for social schemes could end up depriving vulnerable populations of essential services and benefits.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event