1. The petitioner has approached this Court seeking grant of regular bail in a

 case registered against him vide FIR No.272 dated 17.5.2018 under Sections

 420 / 406 / 120-B IPC and Section 3(2) of the Haryana Protection of Interest of

 Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, 2013 at Police Station City

 Bhiwani, District Bhiwani. 2. The FIR was registered at the instance of Mukesh Kumar wherein it has

 been alleged that in the month of June, 2019, Sukhbinder Singh Dandiwal,

 Chief Managing Director, Rajender Kumar Saini and Satish Chaudhary,

 Managing Directors as well as Balbir Singh Saini and Pawan Kumar Saini,

 Branch Managers of Servhit Group of Companies induced him to invest

 amount in their company while holding out a representation that they would

 return back the same with substantial interest. It is alleged that being taken

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2020 07:50:11 ::: 2 CRM-M-37886-2019 (O&M)

 in by the said representation, he became an agent of the company and got

 invested amounts of 300-400 persons in the said company but the company

 usurped the entire amount and did not return the same. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he is not named in

 the FIR and has been nominated as an accused on the premises that the

 company had purchased some property in Rajasthan in the name of the

 petitioner with the amount of innocent investors. The learned counsel has

 submitted that he had nothing to do with the affairs of the company and the

 land in question was purchased in his name being a resident of State of

 Rajasthan as a non-resident of the State of Rajasthan cannot purchase a land

 in Rajasthan. The learned counsel has further submitted that since the other

 co-accused have already been granted bail, the petitioner, as such, deserves

 grant of bail on grounds of parity. 4. Opposing the petition, the learned State counsel has submitted that the

 petitioner is one of the Directors of the company and as such, was part and

 parcel of the entire scam of defrauding gullible investors and as such, he

 does not deserve the concession of bail. The learned State counsel has,

 however, not disputed that the co-accused have already been granted regular

 bail and that the petitioner has been behind bars since the last more than 5

 months. 5. Having considered rival submissions addressed before this Court and

 bearing in mind the fact that the petitioner has been behind bars since the

 last about 5 months and that the conclusion of trial is likely to take some

 time, further detention of the petitioner will not serve any useful purpose.

 The petition, as such, is accepted and the petitioner is ordered to be

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 12-01-2020 07:50:12 ::: 3 CRM-M-37886-2019 (O&M)

released on regular bail on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the

satisfaction of learned trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate

concerned.