PM Modi wants fintech to earn ‘trust’: Reports quote Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking at the Global Fintech fest, where he said that fintech was all about being “inventive” and spotlighted his government’s support to the sector, albeit without going into anything specific about how “security, safety, and reliability” are to be improved. [Read more]

Pressure group for capping gambling entry fees: Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an influential ‘nationalist’ association, is batting for a cap of ticket price for entering real money gaming online. This is supposedly to bring down harms such as addiction, suicide, and indebtedness, and comes amid calls for regulation of the space. [Read more]

Lending apps must show links to banks or NBFC: Google has updated its policies on Play Store, requiring lending and credit aggregating apps to clearly display their link to a bank or NBFC. This comes after MeitY and Google officials met amid reports of Google facing ‘pressure’ to take down lending apps with unscrupulous practices. [Read more]

GST on crypto upcoming: LiveMint reported that the Finance Ministry is working towards bringing cryptocurrencies under an indirect tax regime by defining their characteristics, use, and legal status. Sources said that it is being decided whether crypto is a good or service, and the tax can be “between” 18 and 28 per cent. [Read more]

Brazil to test voting machine integrity with biometrics: Brazil’s electoral chief has said that voting machines undergoing an “integrity test” ahead of general elections will be activated using users’ biometric data. This comes as the incumbent President Bolsanaro has claimed the possibility of fraud, and amid a rollout of new ‘identity passports’ in the country. [Read more]

Texas social media law upheld by appeals court: An appeals court in the U.S. has upheld a Texas law that effectively bans content takedowns by social media companies on their own platforms, holding that this does not violate their First Amendment right to free speech. The IT Rules in India might also end up having the same effect, as explained in this viewpoint. [Read more]

Iran goes after women without hijab using FRT: The Iranian government is cracking down on women dissenting against enforced hijabs and dress codes, by saying that it will use facial recognition technology (FRT) for surveillance to apprehend and punish violators. There has been a spate of protests against these diktats from women in the Islamic Republic, including on social media. [Read more]

In-app purchases on Apple get 40% costlier: Amid a general inflation in the U.S., the price of in-app purchases on Apple have increased by 40% as against 9% on Google, says an Apptopia report, putting it down most likely due to increased costs of installation for developers caused by Apple’s App Tracking Transparency (ATT) policies. [Read more]

WhatsApp working on polls in group chat: Polling is becoming a popular way to engage and seek opinions online, and may be making its way to popular instant messaging platform WhatsApp. For now there are upto 12 options which may change once the beta version is released. [Read more]

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event