SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A random friend request connects me to a scammer Pyramid scheme girl (x-post from /r/mumbai)
DATE: 2018-06-22
SCORE: 121
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8t17xb/a_random_friend_request_connects_me_to_a_scammer/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I am from delhi and I sent a friend request to a girl living in Mumbai from Delhi couple of months back.

We talked on FB for a while and found out that she passed out the same year as me. And we went out for a coffee. In the meeting she tells me how she's working hard towards her goals, and sent her parents to a trip on Malaysia on her own money that she made from her business. I didn't quite understand the business that she called E-commerce. She also made me realise that I am wasting my life, because when I asked her about her frustrations in life, stress etc, she said that she's doing what she loves so she doesn't feel all these things. She described her future goals of women empowerment etc.

We stop talking after that but a few weeks later she calls me asking me of my whereabouts and how things are going etc. We start talking on phone again this time, and we're having good discussions on managing teams, leadership etc. Finally, she says that she would like me to know more about her business, and if interested I can join it as well. I said, I would be willing to know more. To that, she calls me to meet one of her seniors at coffee again.

The senior, another female, around 33, enters and all of us are very formal. The whole conversation further is between me and her. She asks me why I want to do this business along with my current job. We talk about more motivational bullshit. She is impressed.

Then she tells me that this business, that I know nothing of in detail yet, will require an investment of 3.5 to 10 lacs.

I say I don't have the money so I won't do that. This leads to an embarassing discussion where she's asking me full break up of my salary. I lie and I prove that I don't have the money. Then she discusses how I would be able to take a loan. I go along out of curiosity, thinking that refusing will lead to the end of the conversation. Then she says that I should be able to take independent decisions for this business, which means that "I am not allowed to talk this with my parents." To which I plainly refuse again.

Then the says that she would need to talk with her husband, to whom this business actually belongs, and she was taking interview from his side. I was told that already for the record.

The conversation ends with she telling me it will not work out, and maybe if I am willing to take independent decisions on my own in the future, then I can contact them again.

Some red flags:

1. In the very first discussion, the girl asked me my salary, and I foolishly gave out the number.
2. I don't know the name of this company at all, what the business is about, and how they make money.
3. I discussed with someone else later on and I learnt that this is actually a ponzi scheme and their headquarters are in Malaysia.

Take care from shitty people with bullshit motivational goals fellow redditors!