SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Bala movie: A mix of new and the old (Analysis)
DATE: 2019-11-10
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/du8jny/bala_movie_a_mix_of_new_and_the_old_analysis/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was expecting nothing from the movie Bala because of majorly 2 things. First, I had checked twitter and found people with negative reviews (well Twitter is negative about everything these days) and secondly I had to walk out of the movie "Dreamgirl". I like Ayushmann but I found "Dreamgirl" pretty average and the movie felt like a culmination of comedy circus scenes. Thus, I was sceptical.

I was totally wrong. Bala is an Ayushmann khurana trademark movie. Ofcourse the director Amar Kaushik and the entire cast are responsible for the success. But, this movie is not merely about a good script selection. Ayushmann did a marvelous job of a frustrated insecured bald guy. I could relate to his frustration. The portrayal is just too realistic. 

Now, directly coming to the themes the movie touches. (Contains Spoilers)

1. Insecurities - The movie uses Baldness (primarily) and dark complexion as insecurities people have and how the world is hell-bent on shaming them. It sees Baldness and skin tone in a completely different way. Baldness touching the masculine charm and skin colour determining the feminine side. It explores these two ideas. 

Another insecurity it explores is the millennials quest for an enhanced pseudo identity on social media platforms. Bala gets upset about his baldness because he thinks he is not presentable on Instagram and Tiktok. The material socialisation of social media where we long to get likes in our videos, intellectual brainstorming statuses and etc. Yami Gautam's character comes in the frame here as she is a viral star with modeling aspirations.

2. Status quo - Javed Jaffrey remarks in the movie, that looks don't matter for men as it is a patriarchal society and after marriage the girl has to stay with the husband irrespective of her choice cause she is now tied. In the marriage it constantly challenges this notion. Bhumi Pednekar who is herself a lawyer, encourages a women to leave ger husband who was justifying her husband's cheating because of her weight. Yami Gautam files a divorce suit after she finds Bala is bald and has lied to her about his hair. It tries to break away from the marital trap of a women. 

3. Religion - Bollywood has attempted to touch religion in films like PK, OMG! Bala's addressing of religion is inclusive. Initially it criticises Lord Krishna for beautifing a dark toned into a fair skinned girl. In the end it analyses the situation in a completely different way. Krishna was not trying to change her into fair skin, the Lord was trying to make her realise that she is beautiful. This positive interpretation and understanding of India's religious practices is commendable because many a times we associate reformation with total denunciation of religion. India's secularism has always been about plurality and not about separation of church (here religion) from the state.

4. Pop culture

It touches upon the pop culture that shames dark skinned women by mocking certain Bollywood songs. It doesn't resort to any blame game because during that time subtle misogyny was evident everywhere rather it tries to remind us how subconsciously how we have been indoctrinated with the thought that beauty means fair.

5. Staying true to yourself

Both the women lead are true to their archetype. Bhumi although felt upset as a kid when she was shamed for being dark, she doesn't let it affect her way of life. She finds social media irrelevant to project a different self and tries to live her life with her ideals. Yami on the other hand is a product of social media. She is aware of her "beauty" appeal and uses that to build a brand around tiktok (just like a modern day influencer). She herself admits that "externalities" is her way of life and without that she is nothing. That bedroom scene with Ayushmann was much needed because there's a nerd culture being developed which shames people too much. ( So, what if someone uploads a selfie or a Tiktok video? Can we just mind our won business if we don't like it. If one is self aware of their potential and knows the market, exploiting it through social media is not a sin.) It is still better than the hypocrite Ayushmann who tries to fake it. Yami is not faking it. She is aware of her "externality" aspect. 

6. Activism: The best cinematic aspect of Bala is that the movie is not preachy. It is subtle in its activism. It doesn't call any names to direct blame, it highlights the normalisation of practices. Like fairness obsession, body shaming and even new ones like social media's edited reality. It depicts the shallowness of being too filmy. Bala's need for gratification comes from the fact he wants to emulate Bollywood behaviour. 

7. High school nostalgia: Bala tried so hard to have his hair back is because of the appreciation he received in school. A lot of people are stuck in their school days because they had a particular identity in school. Some were good at sports but later ended up in a deadbeat job and in the case of Bala, it being the popular kid in class. People are obsessed with the highschool nostalgia as they want to go back to those days to escape the monotony that employment and real life offers.

The most important point: Is Bala a traditional Bollywood hero? Well, Bala has certain flaws. He is bald which the B'town hero rarely is. He is insecured. Our heroes maybe big time fraud in their films but they are never insecured. Bala is different to a Bollywood hero. Bala doesn't get the girl. He gets rejected by Bhumi as she is in love with someone else. Also, it doesn't follow the Bollywood style of falling in love with the second girl (read rebound) in movies such as Kuch Kuch Hota Hain. Yammi ends up divorcing Bala.

But, but it follows the conventional hero arc in the end. Because the movie is all about Bala's victory over his insecurities. It is about his catharcis which he has in his last "fairness" cream presentation. It is about his reversal of fortune from being an average comedian to a well loved one. He follows the athenian ideal hero in a way. (Except he doesn't visit the underground) Bhumi feels sympathetic towards Bala and fights his case (it initially felt like she loves him but benefit of doubt she was fighting for herself as well as she might relate to Bala's baldness in a way as she has suffered societical taunting for her skin tonned)

Bala might have deviated from mainstream Bollywood norms (althout it is itself a commercial movie) but it adheres to the policy of The Indian Hero resurgence.

To conclude, all this analysis holds no value if the movie is boring and Bala is far from that. It is a fun watch.