The Supreme Court (SC) on July 16 reminded the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to analyse the contentious social media posts of Professor Ali Khan Mahmudabad to restrict its scope to those specific posts only. “We are only pointing out why the SIT is, on the face of it, misdirecting itself,” said the court. It added that the team was expected only to determine if the contents of the posts constituted an offence or not.

“They can examine, they can say, ‘Yes, this part of the article constitutes an offence and this part does not.’ Or they may say that the entire article may be an opinion to the disliking of so many people, but it does not constitute an offence,” said the court.

The apex court was responding to complaints by Mahmudabad’s lawyer, Senior Advocate Kapil Sibal, who stated that the SIT had confiscated the professor’s devices and summoned him atleast four times. He added that the police were asking questions about Mahmudabad’s travel history, and questioned its relevance to the investigation. “It can’t be a roving inquiry, that’s not fair,” commented Sibal.

However, the court accepted that if the SIT, in the course of its investigation, found evidence of a separate unrelated offence, then they may file an FIR for that as well.

The court also granted further relief to Mahmudabad, suggesting that he does not need to present himself before the SIT again.

“If the petitioner has already joined the investigation and handed over even his personal gadgets, it seems to us that it may not be necessary to summon the petitioner again for joining the investigation,” said the court. “You do not require him, you require a dictionary,” the court remarked when the government’s lawyer protested.

The apex body also clarified its order from May 21, which prohibited Mahmudabad from expressing his views about the terror attack in Pahalgam and the subsequent conflict between India and Pakistan.

“We make it clear that the petitioner is entitled to continue to write any online post, article, or express his opinion, except that he should not comment on the sub-judice matters,” the SC said.

Mahmudabad had written two social media posts on Operation Sindoor, India’s retaliatory attack on nine terrorist camps in Pakistan following the April 2025 terror attack in Pahalgham. His posts analysed India’s military response against Pakistan and commended the armed forces for refraining from unnecessary escalation. The posts further criticised right-wing hypocrisy for celebrating the role of female soldiers in this context while ignoring communal violence and hate crimes within India.

Consequently, the Haryana Police registered two separate First Information Reports (FIRs) against him and then arrested him on May 18. In previous hearings the court had granted the professor bail and ordered the formation of an SIT to investigate the posts in their entirety, and determine if they constituted an offence.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event