"People from the past, have a tendency to walk back into the present, and

run over the future." Anthony Liccione's statement is epitomized in the

present case, where a ghost of the petitioner's past has revivified to haunt

her present and wreck her future. The petitioner has filed the instant

application under Section 439 of CrPC seeking bail. She is an accused in

GR Case No. 4342 of 2019 arising out of Dhanupali PS Case No. 496 of 2 2019, pending in the court of the learned SDJM, Sambalpur involving the

offence under Section 306 / 34 of IPC. 2.The storyline is brutal in its simplicity as summarized in the FIR. The

allegation against the accused/petitioner is that she along with the co-

accused have inflicted direct and indirect mental torture on the deceased

(Padmalochan Barik) which resulted in the commission of suicide by the

deceased. The statement of the witnesses recorded under Section 161 of Cr.

PC reveals that the petitioner had tied her nuptial knot with the deceased

(Padma lochan) on 21.02.2019.However,prior to her marriage, she was

alleged to have been in love relationship with the co-accused Upendra and

it was alleged to have continued even after her marriage. The co-accused

(Upendra) had sent some of the intimate and private Tik Tok videos with the

petitioner to the deceased which were also alleged to have been streamed in

social media. The said Tik Tok videos depicting such fornication got deep

seated in the frail mind of the deceased and the addictive power of

instantaneity made him loose perspective and balance. Of course, the

underpinnings of familial shame made him suffer a lot internally in the

form of tremendous mental pressure which invited a dangerous haste in 3 ending his life on the fateful day of 13.07.2019 by hanging himself in the

ceiling fan of his bed-room. 3.From the investigation and statements extracted under Section 161 of Cr.

PC, it is evident that Upendra Mahananda is responsible for the abetment

of suicide. The investigation does point finger at the role of the petitioner

herein but not in a clear term. However, at this stage, the investigation of

the case is at its infancy and more information needs to be gathered. 4.Learned counsel for the petitioner Mr. L.N Patel, strenuously contended

that the petitioner has no role in the alleged commission of offence. It is her

past life that has haunted her. The cause and circumstances surrounding

the death of petitioner's husband which is apparently suicide but not yet

appositely established. Though the statements, recorded under Section 161 of Cr. PC, of some of the family members, neighbours and friends' prima-

facie disclose the tragic end of the deceased but none has attributed any

motive of the petitioner or her role in the suicide of her husband. The

petitioner was arrested on 14.01.2020 and since then she is in jail. Hence,

she may be granted bail. 5.Per contra, Mr. A.K. Beura, Ld. Addl. Standing Counsel vehemently

opposed the bail application of the petitioner stating that the petitioner is

involved in the instant crime insofar as her role in abetting the suicide is

concerned. The Investigation is in progress and considering the gravity of

the offence she should not be granted bail. This is a non-bailable offence

and the trial is yet to kick off. Therefore, releasing her on bail may skid the

trial process. 6.Having heard the rival contentions of the parties and after perusal of

updated case Diary, it is a prima facie view that the incident might have

been perceived to be just a streaming of Tik Tok videos of deceased's wife

and her former beau but it was morally and legally heinous which led to an

ugly consequence. The petitioner being wife should have the deceased's

emotional safety, instead she became the cause of his emotional insecurity

and severe mental upheaval leading to cessation of a life. But the role of

the petitioner or her commission of any positive act attracting Section 306 of IPC, does not properly resonate at this stage. A different story may be

pan out via a proper trial. At this stage, it is trite to retrace and discuss the

info graph which may be proffered qua the role of the petitioner, especially,

considering her previous romantic relationship. 7.The offence of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of IPC is endowed

with twin essential ingredients:(i)a person commits suicide (ii) such suicide

was abetted by the accused. The offence involves a mental process of

instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing. To

hold a person liable for abetting suicide active role is required which can be

described as instigating or aiding in doing thing[ K.D. Gaur, Criminal Law: 8.The Kerala High Court in Cyriac and Ors. vs. The S.I. of Police and

Ors1has put the issue very succinctly: 1ILR 2005 (3) Kerala 646. The Madras High Court in Manikandan vs. State,2relying on the previous

judgment of the same High Court in Rajamannar vs. State Rep. by the

Inspector of Police Sewapet Police Station, Thirruwallur

District3observed that: It is not the wish and willingness nor the desire of the
 victim to die, it must be the wish of the accused, it is the
 intention on the part of the accused that the victim should
 die that matters much. There must be a positive act on the

24 MLJ CRL 240 Madras High Court (2016). 3Crl. O.P. No. 8230/2014dated 3.4.2014 7 part of the accused. It need not be by words. It may be
 by the deeds. It may be by letters. But, at the same time,
 the decision of a weak minded or a woman of frail
 mentality cannot be misunderstood as abetment. For one's
 foolish act another person cannot be made liable." 9.The Supreme Court in GurcharanSingh vs. State of Punjab,4 held that

the basic ingredients of Section 306 of IPC are that a suicide death and

abetment thereof, and absence of any of these conditions could vitiate the

indictment. The judgment derived its strength from State of West Bengal

vs. Orilal Jaiswal And Another,5 wherein it was observed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court that the court should be extremely careful in assessing the

facts and circumstances of each case and the evidence adduced in the trial

of the parties. The apex court inChitresh Kumar Chopra vs. State (Govt.

of NCT ), 6 Gangula Mohan Reddy vs. State of Andhra Pradesh , 7 S.

Mohan vs. State8 etc. once again reiterated that the abetment involves a

mental process of instigating a person intentionally hence in such cases

conviction cannot be sustained. 10. At this stage, it seems that the role of Tik Tok videos in the suicide has

escaped the attention of the Investigating officer. This angle does offer a

4(2017) 1 SCC 433. 5(1994) 1 SCC 73. 6(2009)16 SCC 605

7(2010) 1 SCC 750. 8 (2011) 3 SCC 626 8 buffer for discussion, because it was the transmission and use of Tik Tok

videos in the entire episode which disturbed the brain biology and calmly

fragiled the core mental strength of the deceased. The prosecution in the

instant case ought to have gone for scrupulous intendance to explore the

investigation in this direction. 11.I appears that the Tik Tok videos in the instant case has become the

cause for tragic end of an innocent life, though the content of the Tik Tok

video could not have been touched by the updated case diary. This kind of

transmitting Tik Tok videos with offensive content to harass victims are on

prowl and are gradually on the rise. Large number of people, especially the

youth, both in rural and urban areas, are vulnerable to such troubling

trend. Such act is executed smartly through digital platforms and get

integrated with the social media. Seeing such Tik Tok videos getting viral

might have become humiliating and embarrassing to the deceased which is

quite apparent in the instant case though the content of the videos is yet to

be brought into the preview of the investigation. Of late, Cyber bullying

activity like the instant case, has reared its ugly head and swept away so

many innocent lives through many of its ugly manifestations. Tik Tok

Mobile App which often demonstrates a degrading culture and encourage 9 pornography besides causing pedophiles and explicit disturbing content, is

required to be properly regulated so as to save the teens from its negative

impact. The appropriate Government has got the social responsibility to put

some fair regulatory burden on those companies which are proliferating

such applications. Though certain sections of the Information Technology

Act in conjunction with other Acts in force, do have the teeth to bite such

offenders especially Sections 66E , 67 and 67A ,which stipulates punishment

for violation of privacy, publication and circulation of what the Act calls

"obscene" or "lascivious" content, but grossly insufficient. The Information

Technology Act, 2000 does impose an obligation upon such companies to

take down content and exercise due diligence before uploading any content,

but India lacks a specialized law to address the crime like cyber bullying. 12. Another grim scenario often comes the fore is the traditional approach

of the investigative machinery while dealing with such type of offences.

Most of our investigating officers are neither well trained nor do they

understand the nuances of cybercrime. It is imperative that the personnel

engaged in investigation need to be imparted periodical training so as to

upgrade their skill to investigate this kind of techno-legal issues. Further,

improvement in the cyber intelligence, cyber forensics and cyber 10 prosecution training are long overdue to boost the hitherto rickety cyber

policing. 13.Further digging up, the instant case might bring some surprises, but at

the moment the role of the co-accused seems to be quite apparent in terms

of preparing the Tik Tok videos having some inappropriate content and

sending the same to the deceased. This aspect of the taint cannot be

properly established sans a befitting trial process. At this stage, this court

cannot lose sight of the fact that she has already been in custody for a

substantial period only on the belief that she will temper with the

witnesses, if left at liberty. Even a positive role of the petitioner in the entire

episode cannot be ruled out, however, at the moment, invoking Section 306

would be preposterous. Hence, without more ado, she deserves the benefit

of bail. 14. In the instant case, the judicial discretion cannot be in precise

exactitude but it is expected that the accused person will stand her trial

when called upon. Having considered the matter in the aforesaid

perspective and guided by the precedents cited hereinabove, this Court

comes to an irresistible conclusion that the petitioner shall be released on 11 bail with imposition of certain terms and conditions as the Court in seisin

over the matter deems fit and proper with further condition that she shall

not misuse the liberty granted. It is clarified that the trial court shall

proceed with a fair trial uninfluenced by any of the observations made

hereinabove. For the aforesaid reasons, the present bail application is allowed. [S.K.PANIGRAHI,J.]

Orissa High Court, Cuttack. The 28thday of May, 2020/AKP