SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: PSA: Some useful tips for Online Shopping
DATE: 2022-06-18
SCORE: 57
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/vf6vgw/psa_some_useful_tips_for_online_shopping/

--- POST TEXT ---

Some people Might already know this, but i am writing this so it can help others

Tldr. 

1. Use only Credit Card.

2. Make use of consumer forum

3. Record unboxing, calls,any conversation for evidence purposes

4. Have Merchant Details to book an FIR and hire a lawyer to Send a legal notice

5. Some Products are cheaper offline and learn to haggle.

6. Use price trackers like keepa and price history.

Long Explanation :

1. Always use a Credit Card. Do not use upi,atm/debit card or any other payment method. Use only credit card.

Why Credit Card? Because it has Protection as it is Banks money and not yours. Any other payment method doesn't have this feature.Whether you got scammed, seller didn't give you goods/service or gave you low quality product, be it anything. You can contact the bank and raise a dispute. This feature is called ChargeBack in US. In India it's usually called Dispute Transaction. Call your bank and raise a dispute. The process is usually like this , you get interim credit during dispute and it takes some time for final verdict and the final judgment settles whether you or merchant gets the money. I used this feature couple times, and i won in [One case](https://i.imgur.com/CD2ZRns.jpg) and the other time the seller shipped me the product after i raised a dispute. He didn't bother for two months.

2. Use Consumer Forum. This really got revamped, it works a lot better than before. Consumer Protection Act ,2019 added a lot of rights to consumer. Even anazon,flipkart violate some of the acts. If not consumer forum,Even the online portal works.

3. Always record a video before Unboxing, especially the pricey items. Photos arent enough. Only a video can help you strengthen your case and also record phone calls and any kind of conversation for evidence purposes. 


4. In case of any scams, Goto a Police Station and book an fir , hire a lawyer and send a legal Notice to the merchant. Make sure you have details about seller before making any kind of purchase. Check the websites before purchasing. Some websites are scam/phishing sites. Look for contact details and look up the url in google. I have come across couple fake sites while trying to buy some nike shoes that arent available in India. After some digging i understood it's a fake site.if you happpen to pay on those sites, raise a dispute. Only cc can help you get your money back.

5. Some products like TV have huge margins online. Only products that are either exclusive online and have some contracts with ecommerce sites are cheaper online. Even this is being a matter of issue as it's a discrimination against small merchant and favored,preferential treatment towards big players. 
Coming to issue, Some are actually cheaper offline. It's okay to pay for smaller things online for convenience like grosseries and what not. But Some products as i said are very cheaper offline, i bought an LG tv for 1.8 lakh with 3 year warranty in reliance digital after bargaining but the same tv on Amazon was available for 2.5 Lakhs and only 2 year warranty. Don't be shy to bargain. Haggle anywhere.

6. Always track the price history. I wanted to buy [Earphones](https://i.imgur.com/0W53Q6O.jpg) , it was some 6krs but now it increased price. How did i know this because i used to track price.

p.s comment tips that you might know so it can help people