?If There’s One Story To Read Today

Last week, the Ministry of Communications confirmed in the Rajya Sabha the existence of ASTR – a system to scan SIM subscribers’ faces to catch fraudsters. We at MediaNama like to believe we had a part to play in this admission of the government since ours was among the few publications that knew and reported on this system. In fact, in January we even did an explainer on what ASTR is.

That’s not all. For those who attend MediaNama’s physical event, you may remember that ASTR was discussed during the Telecom Bill event as well. The news had considerably shocked many attendees, well-versed in the field of technology policy and developments in India. While the government has dallied on replying to RTIs regarding ASTR, it is nonetheless a good sign that the Ministry did not shy away from the Rajya Sabha questions. Still, when did it plan to tell people that their information is being processed? Read this 2-minute story here .

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

Keeping mum : We filed around 20 RTIs with the IT Ministry on the meetings it had with the gaming industry before India’s first draft gaming policy was released last month. The Ministry isn’t keen on telling us about what happened there. Unfortunately for us, and for transparent governance, this isn’t the first time Information on hot-topic gaming laws has been withheld by Indian governments. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Imagine this : India’s proposed gaming policy leaves quite a bit of regulation to the hands of self-regulatory bodies. A think tank wants to think outside these borders—in a new report, it recommended a framework for the industry that actually involves government actors. All we can think of: does a policy like this actually help the sector, or is the government’s “light touch” approach the best way forward? [ Read , 4 minutes ]

FREEDOM OF SPEECH/FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION

Now track your way home with Chennai police’s help: Chennai Police’s latest technological move is the introduction of an AI-based ANPR system that will remember and track faces detected by its cameras. The idea is that if ever the police face a ‘grand-theft-auto’ situation, the guilty can be tracked across the city. The only catch is – so can innocent residents. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Old is not always gold: India’s competition law is 21-years-old. In other words, it was enacted at a time when Facebook didn’t exist, Android smartphones weren’t a thing, and shopping on Amazon was a pipe dream. How, then, can this law be expected to address competition concerns in digital markets? For this reason, and many more, the Indian government has set up a committee to look into a separate competition law for digital markets. [ Read , 4 minutes]

The Bard vs ChatGPT battle will begin soon: Google is launching its own coversational AI chatbot called Bard to take on the popular ChatGPT. While it is only available to testers initially, a public launch is expected in coming weeks. When it launches, you might want to ask Google why it took the company so long despite being all “AI this, AI that” for the last couple of years. [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

It might be a pricey business on WhatsApp now: If you are running a business on WhatsApp, then this will impact you. Meta is introducing changes to WhatsApp pricing rules, which can discomfort a few enterprises, specifically small-scale ones. By the looks of it, it is a balanced policy, with something for free too. Check out. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

No tolerance for crypto frauds: It seems like the Enforcement Directorate is sitting on a truck load of money after a response in the Parliament revealed that they have seized more than Rs 930 crore while investigating cryptocurrency frauds. It is a clear indicator that the state is keeping an eye on the crypto sector even if it drags its feet to introduce regulation. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

TRAI wants to become the Ofcom of India: A consultation paper published by the telecom watchdog bats for regulatory convergence in telecom and broadcasting services which will essentially make MIB toothless if it were to become law. The regulator is advocating for such streamlining as a “logical step” given how technologies have converged in today’s era. Check out our summary. [ Read , 8 minutes ]

ChatGPT mania pumps up Chinese AI technology stocks [ Read ] (Samuel Shen, Jason Xue and Brenda Goh/Reuters)

Massive Microsoft Outlook outage brings email to a halt [ Read ] (Rob McLean/CNN)

Microsoft Schedules Mystery Event for Tuesday as Company Accelerates AI Investments [ Read ] (Dina Bass/Bloomberg)

Baidu to finish testing ChatGPT-style project ‘Ernie Bot’ in March; stocks rally [ Read ] (Yingzhi Yang and Brenda Goh/Reuters)

Quora opens its new AI chatbot app Poe to the general public [ Read ] (Sarah Perez/TechCrunch)

Signature Bank Accused in Lawsuit of Overlooking FTX Fraud [ Read ] (Robert Burnson/Bloomberg)

Reliance Jio launches 5G in 10 more cities, now available in 236 cities [ Read ] (Priya Pathak/Financial Express)

Even well-funded fintech companies are laying off workers [ Read ] (Mary Ann Azevedo/TechCrunch)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event