MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J. 1. By way of the present appeal, the appellant has challenged his
 conviction recorded by the trial court vide judgment dated 27.04.2019 in
 FIR No. 104/14 registered under Section 354 IPC and Section 10 of the
 POCSO Act at P.S. Lodhi Colony whereby the appellant was convicted
 for the offence punishable under Section 354 IPC and Section 10 of the
 POCSO Act. This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. 2. Subsequently, vide order dated 13.05.2019, the appellant was
 sentenced to undergo RI for a period of five years and a fine of
 Rs.20,000/- for the offence punishable Section 10 of the POCSO Act and
 in default thereof, to undergo SI for a period of six months. In view of
 Section 42 of the POSCO Act, the appellant was not sentenced for the
 offence punishable under Section 354 IPC as the sentence in POSCO Act
 is higher. 3. While passing the impugned judgment, the trial court noted the
 brief facts as follows:- 4. After completing the investigation, the charge-sheet was filed and
 the trial court framed charges to which the appellant pleaded not guilty
 and claimed trial. CONTENTIONS 5. Mr. Siddharth Yadav, learned counsel for the appellant has
 challenged the impugned judgment by contending that there has been a
 delay of 18 days in giving the complaint; that there is no eye witness to
 the incident; that no TIP was conducted; that the appellant was
 apprehended on false implication and wrong identification; that it was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 3 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. dark and no light source was shown in the site plan; that no MLC was
 conducted to substantiate the allegations made by the witnesses; that the
 material witnesses being the fathers of the child victims, the President of
 RWA and the employer/Commanding Officer of the appellant were not
 examined. Lastly, it was submitted that there are contradictions in the
 statements of the witnesses with respect to the mode, manner and place
 of the apprehending as well as arrest of the appellant; that the child
 witnesses were tutored. Learned counsel has relied upon the decisions in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Chamru @ Bhagwandas & Ors. reported as
 (2007) 12 SCC 423, judgment in Crl.A. 4/1993 titled Sanjay Singh
 Sandhu v. State dated 28.08.2009, Arif v. State Govt. of NCT of Delhi reported as 2015 SCC OnLine Del 6903 and Raj Kumar Singh @ Raju
 @ Batya v. State of Rajasthan reported as (2013) 5 SCC 722. 6. Ms. Radhika Kolluru, learned APP for the State, on the other hand,
 has supported the impugned judgment. She submitted that the
 testimonies of the two child witnesses are consistent, coherent and
 credible. She further submits that the delay in registration of the FIR
 occurred as the appellant was not known to the child victims and they
 could only identify him later on when they saw him in the complex, on
 which date the appellant was apprehended and the present FIR was
 registered. She further submitted that all the material witnesses were
 examined and non-examination of the other persons or the fathers of the
 victims is not fatal to the prosecution case. She refers to the decision of
 the Coordinate Bench of this Court in Pramod Kumar v. State reported as
 2016 Cri LJ 2997 wherein it was held that delay of 10 days in lodging
 the FIR was not considered as fatal. This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. AGE OF THE CHILD VICTIMS 7. The present case involves child victims hereinafter, referred as
 Baby „E‟ and Baby „A‟. In the initial complaint made to the SHO by the
 mother of Baby „E‟, the age of the Baby „E‟ was mentioned as 7 years
 and Baby „A‟ as 8 years. During the trial, the prosecution examined SI
 Jag Roshni who had collected the age proof of both the child victims
 from the respective schools. As per the record, the date of birth of Baby
 „E‟ is 03.05.2006 and that of Baby „A‟ is 15.12.2005. The appellant did
 not contest the age of the child victims. Accordingly, in view of the
 documents collected and the undisputed case of the prosecution, both the
 child victims were below the age of 12 years as on 12.03.2014 i.e. the
 day of the incident. MATERIAL WITNESSES 8. Child victim Baby „E‟ was examined as PW-1 on 30.01.2016. She
 stated that on the day of the incident she was a student of 2nd class. She
 along with her friend Baby „A‟ were playing in front of her flat on the 3rd
 floor. They were playing with water balloons on account of which their
 clothes got wet. She noticed that the appellant was standing at the 4 th
 floor and staring both of them. After sometime, the appellant came down
 towards them and started touching legs of Baby „A‟ and then starting
 touching her and said "you are so wet" and then he touched her
 underpants. He also touched her legs and her buttocks. He caught hold of
 her tightly and when she asked him to leave her, he did not. She
 somehow managed to escape and both of them ran to the flat of Baby „A‟ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 5 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. which was nearby. She also informed her mother. They tried to look for
 the appellant on that day but he could not be found. After few days when
 they were cycling, they found the appellant in front of F-Block. He was
 sitting on a scooter and playing with a small boy. They went close to him
 and identified him as the same person who did wrong acts with them
 earlier. They went back to their homes and informed their parents. When
 they came back, they could not find the appellant however, on enquiry
 from their friends residing in F-Block, they came to know the residence
 of the appellant. When they reached the flat, they came to know that the
 appellant was an employee of a CRPF Officer and working as a servant
 in a flat of the said CRPF Officer. She also identified the appellant
 through the video link. 9. On being asked by the learned Addl. PP, she clarified that the
 appellant had touched her buttocks from inside her underpants and not
 from above the clothes. During the cross examination, the witness
 clarified that she and her friend Baby „A‟ resided on the same floor. She
 denied the suggestion that the appellant was not present at the fourth
 floor on the date of the incident. She also denied the suggestion that the
 appellant had not touched her or her friend on the day of the incident.
 She denied the suggestion that no such incident took place. 10. Baby „A‟ was examined as PW-2 on 30.01.2016. She deposed that
 on day of the incident she was playing with her friend Baby „E‟ with
 water balloons in the area in front of their flat. The appellant was
 standing on the 4th floor and was staring at them. After sometime, he
 came downstairs and caught hold of Baby „E‟ and did something with
 her. The witness was wearing a skirt and the appellant touched her legs.
 The witness informed her mother as well as the mother of her friend. One Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 6 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. day while cycling in their colony, they went to F-Block where they found
 the appellant playing with the children. Thereafter, the appellant was
 apprehended. Baby „A‟ after seeing the appellant stated that perhaps he
 was the accused but she was not sure. In cross-examination by the
 learned Addl. P.P., she stated that the appellant had not caught hold of
 her. He only touched her legs but had caught hold of Baby „E‟ and also
 touched her legs as well as buttocks. She stated that it was correct that
 the appellant had touched the buttocks of Baby „E‟ after inserting his
 hand into her underpants. During the cross examination on behalf of the
 appellant, the witness denied the suggestion that she ran away from the
 spot which is why she had not seen the appellant inappropriately
 touching her friend Baby „E‟. She voluntarily clarified that she had seen
 that appellant catching hold of her friend Baby „E‟ and touching her. She
 denied the suggestion that the appellant had not touched her legs. She
 also denied the suggestion that the appellant was not staring from the
 fourth floor. 11. Ms. „R.R.‟, mother of Baby „E‟ was examined as PW-3. She stated
 that on the date of the incident she was present at her house while her
 daughter was playing with her friend i.e., Baby „A‟ in the area outside
 their flat at the 3rd floor. At about 7:30/8:00 p.m., both the girls came to
 her. They were weeping at that time. On being enquired, they told her
 that they were playing with water balloons when somebody from 4th floor
 came and caught hold of her friend Baby „A‟ and then he caught hold of
 her daughter Baby „E‟. She was told that the appellant had put his hand
 inside the slacks of Baby „E‟ and touched her back portion. She along
 with the mother of Baby „A‟ looked around but did not find anyone. She
 also called her husband and searched for accused but could not find him. This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. A complaint was made to the President of RWA. On 30.03.2014 when
 the children were cycling, they saw the appellant in the campus. Later on,
 they came to know that the appellant was working in a flat in F-Block.
 Her husband along with father of Baby „A‟ went to the aforesaid flat and
 on identification of the children, apprehended the appellant. In her cross-
 examination on behalf of the appellant, she admitted that on 30.03.2014,
 her husband had gone and she personally had no knowledge what
 happened thereafter. She herself did not inform the Police. 12. Ms. „M.T.‟, mother of Baby „A‟ was examined as PW-4. She
 stated that on the date of the incident, her daughter aged 8 years was
 playing with her friend Baby „E‟. She was called by the mother of Baby
 „E‟ at her house where her daughter Baby „A‟ told her that while she was
 playing on the 3rd floor with Baby „E‟, one person i.e. the appellant who
 was staring them from the 4th floor came down and touched the legs of
 her daughter and said "wearing pyjama is wet". She was also told that
 the appellant also misbehaved with Baby „E‟. It was dark at that time but
 they went to look for the appellant but could not find him. On
 30.03.2014, both the child victims saw the appellant in F-Block of the
 campus and informed her as well as the parents of Baby „E‟. The
 appellant was apprehended on identification by the children. She denied
 the suggestion that no such incident had taken place. She stated that she
 along with the mother of Baby „E‟ went to F-Block where the appellant
 was working and handed him over the Police. She further denied the
 suggestion that they apprehended the wrong person due to wrong
 identification by the children. 13. The prosecution examined SI Manoj Kumar as PW-6 and W/Ct.
 Nutan as PW-5 who had visited the spot on 30.03.2014. SI Manoj, PW-6 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 8 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. deposed that when they reached A-313, Pragati Vihar Hostel, Lodhi
 Colony, they met the complainant Ms. „R.R.‟ who handed over the
 appellant to them. The appellant in his statement recorded under Section
 313 Cr.P.C. denied the prosecution case. While answering Question Nos.
 3 & 4, he stated that on the date of the incident, he was not present in
 Pragati Vihar, Lodhi Colony. While answering Question Nos. 6 & 11, he
 stated that he was wrongly identified and detained by Ms. „R.R.‟ on
 30.03.2014. Lastly, he stated he was falsely implicated on account of
 wrong identification by the child victims. 14. I have heard learned counsels for the parties and gone through the
 case record as well as the written submissions. ANALYSIS 15. The prosecution, to prove its case, has relied on the statements of
 the two child victims. The competence of a child witness and its
 evaluation by the Court has been the subject matter of many decisions.
 The Supreme Court in Dattu Ramrao Sakhare v. State of Maharashtra ,
 reported as (1997) 5 SCC 341 observed as under: 16. Again, in Ratansinh Dalsukhbhai Nayak v. State of Gujarat reported as (2004) 1 SCC 64, the Supreme Court made the following
 observations: 17. In the present case, although both the child victims were aged
 about 9/10 years but before examining them, the trial court after asking
 the requisite questions recorded its satisfaction as to their competence to
 stand as witnesses. 18. The evidence of a child witness for being credible needs to be
 reliable. In Ranjeet Kumar Ram v. State of Bihar , reported as 2015 SCC
 OnLine SC 500, the Supreme court held that: 19. The evidence of a child witness has to be evaluated more carefully
 and with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible to be
 swayed by what others tell him and thus a child witness is an easy prey to
 tutoring [Refer: Panchhi v. State of U.P. reported as (1998) 7 SCC 177].
 Further, the testimony of a child witness may require corroboration, but
 in case his deposition inspires the confidence of the court and there is no
 embellishment or improvement therein, the court may rely upon his
 evidence. [Refer: Nivrutti Pandurang Kokate reported as (2008) 12 SCC
 565]. Also, the evidence of the child witness and its credibility would
 depend upon the circumstances of each case. Only precaution which the
 court has to bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness
 is that the witness must be a reliable one. [Refer: Ranjeet Kumar Ram (Supra)]. 20. The evidence of the two child victims in the present case has to be
 evaluated in view of the above-mentioned principles and needs to be
 tested in light of the contentions raised. 21. To prove the fact that an incident of sexual harassment occurred
 with the two child victims on 12.03.2014 at about 7:30/8:00 pm in the
 area outside the 3rd floor of A-Block, Pragati Vihar Hostel, Lodhi Road,
 the prosecution examined the two child victims as well as their mothers.
 The testimonies of both the child victims are consistent on the above
 issue. They have narrated in detail about the incident as to how first Baby
 „A‟ was sexually harassed and then Baby „E‟. Thereafter, they Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 11 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. immediately informed their respective mothers. The mothers have stated
 that the child victims came and told them about the incident. In light of
 the consistent testimonies of the child victims as well as their mothers,
 the fact that the incident of sexual harassment took place on the
 aforementioned time, date and place stands proved. 22. The next question is whether it was the appellant who committed
 the aforesaid incident on the abovementioned time, date and place. 23. Learned counsel for the appellant has argued at length to contend
 that the appellant was falsely implicated on the basis of wrong
 identification of the child victims and that dock identification for the first
 time in Court, in absence of any TIP, has no legal sanctity and is fatal to
 the prosecution case. 24. The law on identification of the accused in absence of any TIP has
 been summarized by the Supreme Court in Raja v. State by the Inspector
 of Police reported as 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1591, where it was held that
 if there is material on record which sufficiently indicates that reasons for
 "gaining an enduring impression of the identity on the mind and memory
 of the witnesses" are available on record, then even non holding of TIP is
 not fatal. The Court went on to reject the contention that identification
 for the first time in Court ought to be discarded and rather believed the
 eye witnesses as they had suffered injuries in the transaction by
 observing that they had sufficient opportunity to observe the accused to
 have an enduring impression of the identity of the assailants.
 [ 25. Earlier, in Raju Manjhi v. State of Bihar reported as (2019) 12
 SCC 784, it was held by the Supreme Court as under: 26. In Kunjumon v. State of Kerala reported as (2012) 13 SCC 750,
 the Supreme Court held as under: 27. The Supreme Court in Kunjumon (Supra) relied on the
 identification of the accused by the children in absence of the TIP as her Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 13 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. statement was found to be clear and unambiguous as nothing adverse
 could be elicited during her cross-examination. 28. In the present case, on the date of the incident, both the child
 victims i.e. Baby „E‟ and Baby „A‟ were aged about 7 and 8 years. As
 per their statements made before the Court, they first saw the appellant
 on the date of the incident while he was standing at the 4th floor after
 which he came down to the place where they were playing and then
 sexually harassed them. Although, a search was made on the date of the
 incident by the parents of the child victims but the appellant could not be
 found. 29. As borne out from the records of the case, the appellant could be
 identified and arrested only after 18 days of the incident. It has come in
 the evidence of both the child victims that they were residents of „A‟
 Block. After few days of the incident, while they were cycling in their
 campus, they saw the appellant sitting in F-Block and playing with some
 children. They identified him as the same person who had sexually
 harassed them few days back. Baby „E‟ specifically stated that when they
 saw the appellant in F-Block, they went closer & identified him as the
 same person who had done wrong acts with them. Thereafter, the child
 victims informed their parents. 30. Ms. „R.R.‟ and Ms. „M.T.‟ have also consistently stated that they
 were told by the child victims that they had seen the same person in the
 park of F-Block, who had earlier sexually harassed them. 31. It has further been consistently stated by the child victims as well
 as their respective mothers that when they reached the park, the said
 person was not there. On enquiry from the local children, they came to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 14 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. know the number of the flat in F-Block where the said person was living
 whereafter all of them went to the aforesaid flat. 32. Baby „E‟ specifically stated that when they reached the said flat,
 they saw the appellant and identified him as the same person who had
 sexually harassed them. The appellant was apprehended. The testimony
 of Ms. „M.T.‟ corroborates the fact that on identification by the children,
 the appellant was apprehended by them from his flat. To the similar
 effect is the testimony of Ms. „R.R.‟. 33. Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the statement of
 Baby „A‟ made before the court does not inspire confidence on the aspect
 of identification and the appellant must get the benefit of doubt. It is
 noted that during her examination, when Baby „A‟ saw the appellant
 through the video link, she stated that perhaps he was the person but she
 was not sure. To appreciate this contention, the entire statement of Baby
 „A‟ needs to be examined carefully. 34. It is worthwhile to note that Baby „A‟ was examined in Court after
 about two years from the date of the incident. She narrated the entire
 incident correctly. She deposed that the man who was standing at the 4th
 floor and sexually harassed them was the same man whom they saw later
 in the park of F-Block on 30.03.2014. She also deposed that on that day,
 the said person was apprehended and she came to know the name of the
 said person as Murli. 35. In the trial, the appellant did not deny that he was apprehended by
 the parents of the child victims on 30.03.2014 at his flat in F-Block. The
 apprehension of appellant on the said date and place is consistently stated
 not only by the child victims but also by their respective mothers. This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. Further, Baby „E‟ unambiguously identified the appellant as the person
 who had sexually harassed them while they were playing on the date of
 the incident. It has come in the statement of Baby „E" that the appellant
 had spoken the words "you are so wet" and touched her underpants and
 buttocks. She even asked the appellant to let go her, but he did not. As
 such, the appellant had harassed Baby „E‟ more than Baby „A‟ and her
 memory of the incident was clearer. 36. From a combined reading of the testimonies of the two child
 victims, it is seen that on the day of the incident, both the child victims
 first saw the appellant on the 4th floor and later, when he came down to
 3rd floor, he sexually harassed both of them one by one. That day, they
 had sufficient opportunity and time to see the appellant. Both the child
 victims again had sufficient opportunity to see and identify the appellant
 on the day when they were cycling and saw him sitting in F-Block park.
 Later, on that day, they again identified the appellant in presence of their
 parents, when he was apprehended. As such, the appellant‟s
 identification in the court does not suffer from any infirmity and as such
 the contention raised on behalf of the appellant challenging his
 identification in the Court, is meritless and rejected. 37. The reliance placed by learned counsel for the appellant on the
 decision in Chamru (Supra) is misplaced as in the captioned case,
 although the accused was identified by the child victim in the TIP
 however, it was admitted by the child victim that the accused was shown
 to the child victim before the TIP. Further, the accused was known to the
 child victim prior to the incident still there was no mention about his
 identification in the statements recorded during investigation. In these Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 16 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. circumstances, it was stated that since the child victim knew the accused,
 there was no question of TIP. 38. The reliance placed on Arif (Supra) is again of no help to the
 appellant as in the captioned case, the accused had refused the TIP and
 was identified in Court after 1 year and 8 months. The witness in his
 testimony admitted that prior to the TIP, the accused was shown to him
 in the police station. The Court noted that at the time of the incident there
 was no light and the TIP refusal was on account of the fact that the
 accused was already shown to the victim. 39. Similarly, the reliance placed on the decisions Sanjay Singh
 Sandhu (Supra) and Raj Kumar Singh @ Raju @ Batya (Supra) is also
 misplaced. 40. The present is not a case where any motive is attributed to the
 witnesses to falsely implicate the appellant. It is an admitted case that the
 appellant was a complete stranger and not known to either the child
 victims or their family members. As there was no prior enmity between
 them, the question of the child victims being tutored does not arise. Even
 the appellant neither gave any suggestion of tutoring during cross
 examination nor took any such defence in the trial. Resultantly, the
 contention of child victims being tutored, has no merit. 41. So far as the contention raised that neither any light source nor the
 place where the appellant was stated to be standing on the 4 th floor was
 shown in the site plan, is concerned, it is noted that the site plan (Ex.
 PW-3/B) was prepared by SI Manoj Kumar (PW-6) at the instance of
 complainant and the child victims. The area where the incident took Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 17 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. place was the corridor outside the flats on the 3rd floor. The child victims
 could very well see the appellant on the 4th floor. In absence of any cross
 examination on the above aspect, no presumption can be drawn that there
 was no light. Rather, both the child victims have categorically and in
 unequivocal terms identified the appellant. The incident for which the
 appellant was charged took place on the 3rd floor and as such not
 showing the place at the 4th floor where the appellant was stated to be
 standing prior to the incident, is of no significance. 42. So far as delay of 18 days in lodging the complaint is concerned, it
 has no bearing on the case. As noted earlier, the child victims were
 residents of „A‟-Block whereas the appellant, a stranger, was working in
 F-Block. Immediately after the incident, a search was made to look for
 the appellant however, he could not be found. Only when the child
 victims were cycling and went to F-Block, they saw the appellant and he
 was apprehended. 43. It was also contended that if the appellant had tightly held the hand
 of Baby „E‟, as deposed, then her MLC ought to have been conducted to
 corroborate the incident. This contention has no merit. In this regard, it is
 noted that it has not come in the statement of any witness that either of
 the child victims suffered any injury. Further, since the incident was not
 reported to police, no MLC could have been conducted. 44. The next contention raised by the learned counsel for the appellant
 regarding non-examination of the President of RWA or the employer of
 the appellant is concerned, it is noted that it has not come in the
 statement of any witness that any written complaint was given to RWA.
 Similarly, non-examination of the employer of the appellant is of no Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 18 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. consequence as the appellant has not denied his apprehension and arrest
 on the aforesaid date. It is further noted that as per the arrest memo, the
 information of appellant‟s arrest was given to the Commanding Officer
 of the appellant on the date of his arrest. So far as the contention
 regarding non-examination of the father of the child victims is
 concerned, it is noted that the testimonies of Baby „E‟ and Baby „A‟ are
 well corroborated by their respective mothers i.e. Ms. „R.R.‟ and Ms.
 „M.T.‟. It is well settled that it is the quality of the evidence and not the
 quantity of the evidence which is required to be judged by the Court to
 place credence on the statement. [Refer: Harbeer Singh and Ors. v.
 Sheeshpal and Ors. reported as (2016) 16 SCC 418 and Shanker & Ors.
 v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported as (2018) 15 SCC 725]. 45. Lastly, learned counsel for the appellant contended that there is
 inconsistency as to the place of appellant‟s arrest. Again, this contention
 has no merits as the appellant has not denied that he was arrested on
 30.03.2014 from the campus of Pragati Vihar Hostel, Lodhi Road. CONCLUSION 46. The testimonies of both the child victims are consistent on every
 detail of the incident not only with each other but also with their previous
 statements recorded during investigation. The testimonies of both the
 child victims are cumulative and find support from the testimonies of
 their mothers. Both the child victims had sufficient opportunity to see the
 appellant from close proximity on as many as three occasions before he
 was apprehended. Further, there was no ambiguity in appellant‟s
 identification in the Court. In the facts and circumstances of the case, I Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 19 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri. find the testimonies of both the child victims to be consistent, credible
 and reliable. 47. In view of the above discussions, this Court is of the opinion that
 the factum of appellant being the same person who had sexually harassed
 the child victims, stood proved by the evidence brought on the record. 48. Consequently, the appeal is dismissed. The appellant shall
 surrender, if not already done, within a period of eight weeks from the
 date of passing of this judgment to undergo the remaining sentence. 49. A copy of this judgment be sent to the Trial Court as well as Jail
 Superintendent. (MANOJ KUMAR OHRI)
 AUGUST 10, 2020
 ga Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SANGEETA ANAND Signing Date:14.08.2020 14:44 CRL.A. 735/2019 Page 20 of 20 This file is digitally signed by PS
to HMJ Manoj Kumar Ohri.