SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The 50 days are over , a new year has begun, what is India looking towards in terms of Demonetization and Economical growth?
DATE: 2017-01-01
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5lgcpz/the_50_days_are_over_a_new_year_has_begun_what_is/

--- POST TEXT ---

As the title suggests, I had wanted to know more about the future of the country and its economic status, 

Now I want to mention this before we even start, I'm not a economist or someone who has gone through every single article in every single news channel, site or blog, so I do not want to produce any numbers in my questions, but just want to ask a general themed question in those particular sections

1. Was the demonetization move really a success , I am not looking for ' wait for it, it'll work in long term' ( we will get back to this) The pain was immediate and we have to look at the immediate problems that are being caused or even the near future

2. With the latest announcements of 31st what kind of improvements or deterioration are we looking at? 

3. What possible outcomes are we looking at for the UP elections and what will the results of those outcomes be, especially if BJP loses?

4. If our economy does suffer immediate issues due to the massive scale of demonetization are we really seeing a long term improvement? better than it previously was? or are we looking at something worse?

5. This is something I don't see talked about at all, Cyber security and information security, with apps like BHIM or the aadhar scheme or even 3rd party apps like paytm or the 100s others that people prefer and use, are we seeing a extremely secure way of them storing our personal info? eg: bank details, transaction details, passwords, card numbers, etc.

 How secure are these places that we trust them to keep our money and info safe also what kind of measures are being taken to avoid the use of skimming machines in atms or cash withdrawal machines? 

 Is our information safe with any of these companies or government agencies? if not how will we as a economy deal if there was supposedly a massive breach of information?

6. How are we going to make sure old, poor, illiterate people don't get abused of there information by scams and trickery, are there any fool proof systems in place to prevent them from losing money through digital methods?

7. If (seems to be a pretty big if) BJP were to lose consecutive elections after UP and they fuck up worse than what we have now, what other options are we looking at here? for the 2019 elections? are we still going to elect someone that has given pain over pain (if they do) , what are our actual options when shit hits the fan?

These are some questions I have in terms of the future we're looking at , I hope I didn't offend anyone with these questions, just mere questions that I had and could not find solid answers for, again I am not 100% sure of any facts and infos and that is why I haven't used numbers and calculations in my questions, but if you do have solid proof please do let others know

Now I know this is a negative post towards demonetization but, I really can't see it any other way, if you do have good news to share about current and future economy and government rule, please go ahead

Thanks a lot!