SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Some Flipkart customer care agent(s) is/are outright scamming people.
DATE: 2021-10-21
SCORE: 115
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/qcck8b/some_flipkart_customer_care_agents_isare_outright/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today, one of our servants asked me what to do if his Flipkart order shows as "Pending - payment not confirmed by the bank" even though the money got debited from his account. I told him to reach customer care using the "Need help?" button shown with every order. 

From the chatbot response he got customer care number 18002029898. He called the same number and requested a call through usual IVR. The call came from Flipkart customer care number starting with 40 as usual but the agent, who in fact had all the correct information about our servant's order like amount, date of payment and other order details etc. in the middle of call asked our servant his cell phone number (Red flag) then the agent said he will call back. 2 minutes later our servant got call from a private number from the same guy saying he will help him get the money back. Now our servant being too naive when it comes to almost everything digital didn't have a clue about what was happening. That guy on the call told him to install Anydesk on phone (Huge red flag). Our servant did it of course. Then that guy did different stuff starting with checking balance in PayTM, Gpay to getting our servants debit card details with our servant's assistance and Anydesk. I couldn't believe he was doing all this for 18 to 20 mins (Based on call length) and our servant trusted him. Finally after getting to know everything that guy initiated a Gpay payment of 4900 from our servant's phone to his UPI ID, saying this is payment for testing purpose and it will be refunded to you with your refund for the order. Just by God's grace our servant decided to ask my dad once before putting his UPI pin if he should pay to get refunded later. My dad quickly realized what's happening ended the Anydesk session, canceled the payment and all was saved. The scammer ended the call at this point by himself. Few moments later our servant's phone started getting OTPs for debit card payments on Flipkart. Basically scammer was trying to buy stuff using our servant's debit card from flipkart. He must have gotten the details for the card from our servant's phone I believe. 

We helped him hotlist the card and changed his UPI pin, passwords for almost everything. Luckily no damage was caused but it could have been disastrous for our servant to loose his life savings like this. I will be writing a complaint mail to Flipkart with all the details by tomorrow EOD as soon as I get call logs and few screenshots from our servant's phone. 

I guess most redditors are already well aware about how these scams work and won't let scammer go this far but I really want everyone to educate people around them who are new to this digital stuff.