JUSTICE B.N.P. SINGH 

 

 It seems that two complaint cases, one
by Balwant Singh against National Insurance Co. Ltd, the other by Joginder
Singh & 2 Ors against Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. were filed before the
District Forum. Against finding recorded thereon, in case of complaint filed by
Joginder Singh & 2 Ors., two First Appeals were preferred before State
Commission against common order of District Forum, as while First Appeal No.
1246/2005 had been filed by Joginder Singh complainant against Oriental
Insurance Co. Ltd. for enhancing compensation as awarded by the District Forum,
First Appeal No. 1259/2005 against said order was filed also by Oriental
Insurance Co. Ltd for setting aside the judgment and order of District Forum against
finding recorded by District Forum. In case of Balwant Singh, complainant, against
upholding claim of claimant by District Forum, First Appeal No. 1317/2005 was
field by National Insurance Co. Ltd. for setting aside impugned order of
District Forum. Since claim of
complainants in all the two complaint cases of the theft of vehicle were
repudiated by insurance company holding that in violation of terms of the
policy, insured vehicle which was a private car was being used as a taxi, State
Commission disposed of the three appeals by a common order, the issue being
involved identical in all three appeals. Though rival contentions were raised
before fora below as to the liability of
insured to repudiate claim, taking violation of terms of policy in case of
theft of the vehicle, State Commission, in our view, rightly negated
repudiation of claim holding that theft of the vehicle had no nexus regarding
the user or purpose for which the vehicle was being actually plied. The use of a private car even for commercial
purposes in case of theft of the vehicle, cannot be construed a fundamental
cause of theft, there being no nexus between theft and user of the vehicle as
taxi. Though there has been judicial
precedent of National Commission also, without dilating the issue further, we
wish to confine ourselves to a decision of the Honble Apex Court in the matter
of National
Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Nitin Khandelwal reported in 2008 ACJ 2035 wherein
identical situation while considering as to whether the insurance company was
liable to indemnify the insured for his loss, in a case of theft of the
vehicle, Honble Apex court held that breach of terms of policy was not germane
in case of theft of the vehicle. In the case under consideration before
us, following theft of the vehicle, there was no trace and it had not been
recovered. Drawing inspiration from the
ratio of decision of the Honble court, we do not consider to discuss the
factual backgrounds of the other cases on which reliance was placed by the
parties. The revision petition in the circumstances is
dismissed affirming the finding recorded by the State Commission, with no order
as to cost. J 

 

(B.N.P. SINGH) 

 

PRESIDING MEMBER 

 

  

 

.. (S.K. NAIK) 

 

MEMBER 

 

Dd/19