SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Why I think "India is the best country in the world" propaganda is actually beneficial
DATE: 2018-03-29
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/87xi5b/np_why_i_think_india_is_the_best_country_in_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

Many religions keeps their followers united and under control by keeping them in a bubble. They will be in a belief that their religion is the true religion and every other religion is a fake religion. They don't know that their religion is also a fake religion. It doesn't matter if it is true or false in reality, it is true in their minds. 

We (redditors) know what westerners think about India. Let's just say, they don't have a opinion that we should be proud of. What happens if all Indians somehow find out what westerners think about India? Some user said "they'll burn down the whole world". 

I'll give you my perspective. Obviously, most westerners who talk about India on the internet don't know anything about India beyond what memes told them. You can make any country look bad by cherry picking bad aspects. Western media mainly focuses on bad news about India. It's no surprise that westerners don't hold a high opinion of our country. I've said "I love my country" every day from the first day of school and I still love my country. My father told me that Britishers stole our inventions and ancient India had aeroplanes. I was skeptical from the childhood about Britishers being bad. Believe it or not, I thought Britishers gave us postal service, railways, abolished sati and child marriages, so they can't be that bad. I was probably 10 at the time. My father had a major influence on me. He used to tell me that God created us and all that. I asked him if God created us then who created God. He didn't give any satisfactory answer. I learned about big bang in a book my father bought me as a gift. I was too small to understand it but I knew that there is an alternative explanation for the birth of our universe. I was skeptical about everything my father told me. Then came the internet. I learned all kinds of things from the internet. I visited 4chan just to see what it was all about. Then I saw the memes about India. I talked with westerners on other websites before but I never saw anything like I've seen on 4chan. So I thought it was restricted to 4chan. I think there are two kinds of people. People whose main goal is to show India in bad light and people who say what they genuinely believe about India with no ulterior motives. After I started lurking in reddit, I learned that India has become a joke to the world. It felt depressing. There is some truth to the memes but there is much more to India than that. Even though I'm not a staunch patriot, I felt bad about it (at first, at least), imagine how someone, who believes that ancient India was more technologically advanced than the modern world, would feel. As time goes on, more Indians will learn about that. It will damage the the self-esteem of the country as a whole. If they don't know that and they remain inside the bubble, they will be happy in their ignorance. You'll lose the benefit of being happy in ignorance once you come out of the bubble.