and 07.02.2012 passed by learned Additional Sessions

Judge, Diamond Harbour, South 24-Paraganas, in Sessions Trial No.

11(08)2006 arising out of Sessions Case No. 14(07)2006 convicting them

and one Sunil Mondal @ Chittu for commission of offence under Section

396 of the Indian Penal Code and one Momrej Ali Khan @ Bhikari under Section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentencing the appellants Azim

Mistry, Bidhan Ghorui, Joydeep Roy @ Raju and Ranjit Mondal @ Rana

to suffer imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- each in

default to suffer simple imprisonment for six months each and the

appellant Sk. Motleb and Sunil Mondal @ Chittu to suffer rigorous 3 imprisonment for ten years and to pay a fine of Rs.2,000/- each in

default to suffer simple imprisonment for six months each for the self-

same offence. Appellant Azim Mistry was also convicted under section 25 (1-B) (a) of the Arms Act and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment

for three years and pay a fine of Rs. 1000/-, in default, to suffer simple

imprisonment for three months more. Prosecution case, as alleged against the appellants and one Sunil

Mondal @ Chittu and Momrej Ali Khan @ Bhikari is to the effect that on

24.03.2006 one Asraf Gazi, P.W. 1 had boarded a train commonly known

as "cash train" from Magrahat Station around 2:30 p.m. P.W. 1 was

carrying a sum of Rs. 96,900/- on behalf of his employer Golam Md.

Gazi who ran a meat shop for purchasing buffaloes for his business. He

had kept the money concealed in an underwear pocket which was

covered with chocolate wrapper and kept in a red and white coloured

bag. When the train reached Hotor Railway Station, two boys boarded

the train and sat opposite to P.W. 1. Thereafter the train reached

Durgapur station and proceeded towards Kalyanpur. At that juncture,

one of the boys placed a pistol on the head of P.W. 1 while the other

placed a pistol on his stomach. The person who placed up a pistol on his

stomach hit him on the hand with the butt of the firearm. The other

miscreant who had placed pistol on his head snatched away the red and

white coloured bag containing money. He cried out "dakaat dakaat". The

boys fled towards the door of the compartment. When P.W. 1 proceeded 4 towards to door, he found two more persons standing with pistols in

their hands. One of them shouted 'Awaj Kara'. Thereupon, the other

fired from his pistol. A boy sitting in the compartment was hit with a

bullet and fell down on the seat. His clothes were drenched in blood. As

the train slowed down at Kalyanpur station, the dacoits got down from

the train and fled away. He also got down at the station and informed his

employer who asked him to go to Baruipur GRPS. Son of his employer

came to Baruipur GRPS. He narrated the incident to him and the latter

scribed the written complaint which was lodged at the police station.

P.W. 2, Officer-in-charge of Diamond Harbour GRPS, received written

complaint from Asraf Gazi, P.W. 1 and commenced investigation. He

went to the place of occurrence and thereafter to Baruipur Hospital

where he saw the dead body of the victim boy viz., Somnath Majumdar.

He examined witnesses and arrested Bidhan Ghorui, Joydeeb Roy and

Ranjit Mondal. Inquest was held over the dead body of Somnath. He

collected post mortem report. From the statements of the arrested

accuseds, he came to know the involvement of Azim Mistry. CID took

over investigation in the instant case on 12.04.2006 and the

investigation was entrusted to P.W. 21 S.I. Shyamal Kr. Mukherjee who

was posted at Bhabani Bhawan, CID at the relevant time. P.W. 21

received information that one driver Momrej Ali @ Bhikari had gone to

Kalyanpur Station with Tata Sumo vehicle bearing No. WB 02M 9455. He

arrested Momrej and on his interrogation came to know the names of 5 4/5 miscreants. He also sent requisition to S.I., S. N. Chakraborty to

arrest Sk. Motaleb. On the showing of Momrej, Tata Sumo vehicle owned

by P.W. 9, Ashok Das was seized on 12.04.2006. Thereafter, Azim Mistry

was arrested and he was identified by P.W. 1 Asraf Gazi and P.W. 2,

Snigdha Majumdar, mother of the deceased boy and P.W. 4, Sanjib

Tiwari, a co-passenger in the course of T.I. Parade. On his leading

statement, Exhibit-28 an improvised revolver was recovered which was

sent for forensic examination and found to be in working order by P.W. 16. Post mortem report of the deceased was obtained and charge-sheet

was filed. Subsequently, upon receiving sanction, supplementary charge-

sheet was filed. Thereafter, the case was committed and the charges were framed

against the appellants and one Momrej Ali Khan @ Bhikari under Section

396 of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 302 read with Section

34 of the Indian Penal Code. Charge was also framed under section 25 (1-B)(a) of the Arms Act against Azim Mistry. Subsequently, Sunil Mondal

@ Chittu was arrested and similar charges were framed against him. The

appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. In the course of

trial, prosecution examined 21 witnesses and exhibited a number of

documents. Defence of the appellants was one of innocence and false

implication. In conclusion of trial, the trial Judge by judgment and order

dated 06.02.2012 and 07.02.2012 convicted and sentenced the

appellants, as aforesaid. Co-accused Sunil Mondal @ Chittu was also convicted under Section 396 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to rigorous

imprisonment for ten years while Momrej was convicted under Section

395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer rigorous

imprisonment for seven years. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of

conviction, the appellants are before this Court. However, no appeal was

filed by co-accused Momrej Ali Khan @ Bhikari and Sunil Mondal @

Chitta. The Court is informed that they have served out their respective

sentences. Ms. Patel, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant Ranjit

Mondal @ Rana (CRA 177 of 2012) argues P.W. 1 is an unreliable

witness. Neither his employer nor his son has been examined. No

recovery of money was made from the appellants to prove the charge of

dacoity. There is delay in lodging the first information report. P.W. 2,

mother of the deceased did not implicate the appellant in the murder.

Her deposition with regard to the number of passengers in the

compartment is at variance to P.W. 1 and other witnesses. P.W. 4 also

does not implicate the appellant in the murder. Appellant was not put up

for T.I. Parade and these witnesses identified the appellant for the first 7 time in Court. No explanation is offered by P.W. 5 how he knew the name

of the appellant. Explanation of P.W. 6 that appellant was involved in

committing theft in train is not supported by any contemporaneous

document with regard to previous criminal conduct. Even if the

deposition of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 are believed, they did not state five or

more persons were involved in snatching money from P.W. 1 and the

offence of dacoity is not established. Under such circumstances,

conviction under Section 396 of the Indian Penal Code cannot be

maintained. Mr. Das, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant Joydeep

Roy @ Raju in CRA 266 of 2012 adopted the submission of Ms. Patel. In

addition thereto, he submitted even the trial Court in its judgment

expressed doubt how P.Ws. 5 and 6 knew the names of the appellants. Mr. De, learned Advocate appearing for the appellants Azim

Mistry and Bidhan Ghorui submits the offence of dacoity has not been

proved. P.Ws. 5 and 6 were examined after 20 days of the incident. It is

unclear how police came to know of their presence in the compartment

on the fateful day. There is nothing to show that P.Ws. 5 and 6 were

aware of the identities of the accused persons. Similarly, P.W. 11 who

stated co-accused Momrej had driven Azim and others in the Tata Sumo

vehicle was belatedly examined and appears to be an unreliable witness.

Even if evidence of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 are believed, dacoity committed by

five or more persons is not proved beyond doubt. No conviction has been 8 recorded against the appellants under Section 302 / 34 of the Indian

Penal Code. Analysis of evidence of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 would show none of

the appellants had intended to murder the boy. Bidhan Ghorui has not

been put up for T. I. Parade and was identified for the first time in Court.

Thus, they may be acquitted. Mr. Mukherjee, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant Sk.

Motaleb @ Sk. Matleb submits that his client was not identified by the

star witnesses viz., P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4. He adopts the submissions of other

learned Counsels with regard to the improbability of P.Ws. 5 and 6 being

aware of the identity of his client. He submits P.Ws. 5 and 6 are pocket

witnesses of the police and were belatedly examined to implicate the

appellants. He further submits his client has already served out the

sentence imposed upon him. Mr. Ahmed, with Ms. Khan appearing for the State in all the

appeals submit P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 have clearly established the prosecution

case against the appellants. Their evidence is corroborated by P.Ws. 5

and 6 who named all the appellants including one Sunil Mondal @

Chittu as the dacoits. It is possible P.Ws.1, 2 and 4 had not seen Sk.

Motaleb and Sunil Mondal who were standing at the gate and preventing

people from getting into or alighting from the compartment. Moreover,

co-accused Momrej also assisted the appellants in committing the

dacoity and his role is proved through the evidence of the owner of the

vehicle, P.W. 9, his son, P.W. 10 and P.W. 11 who saw Azim Mistry and 9 5/6 others getting into the 'Tata sumo' vehicle at Baruipur petrol pump

which was driven by Momrej. In the course of dacoity, Bidhan Ghorui

had exhorted to fire by stating Azim Mistry 'Awaj Kara'. Thereafter Azim

fired at the child resulting in his death. All the appellants shared

common intention to murder the boy. Hence, the appeals are liable to be

dismissed. Summary of the prosecution evidence: His clothes were stained with blood. Passengers brought them down at

Kalyanpur railway station. No doctor was available at Kalyanpur. Hence,

they came to Baruipur S. D. General Hospital where her son was

declared dead. She identified the appellant Ranajit, Joydeep, Bidhan and

Azim in Court and stated the specific roles played by them. She also

deposed that she had identified Azim who had fired at her son in the

course of T.I. Parade. P.W. 3, Sanjoy Majumdar father of the deceased child has

corroborated the version of P.W. 2. P.W. 4, Sanjib Tewari used to run a catering business. On the

fateful day, he was returning from his father-in-law's house at Kakdwip.

He boarded 2.00 p.m. cash train from Diamond Harbour. He was sitting

in the last compartment of the train. At Hotar station, he got down for a

smoke. Thereafter, he again went back to his seat. When the train left

Durgapur station, he found two boys who went to a person sitting

opposite to him and one of them placed a revolver on the head of that

person and another placed a revolver on his stomach. Thereafter, the

miscreants snatched a bag from the said person who shouted 'dacoit

dacoit'. At that time two persons brought out Pistols and stood guard at

the door of the compartment. One of them shouted 'Awaj Kara' and the

other fired at a boy sitting in the compartment resulting in his death. He

identifed the appellants Ranajit Mondal, Joydeep Roy, Bidhan Ghorui 12 and Azim Mistry and stated their specific roles in Court. He had

identified Azim during T.I. Parade. The other co-passengers who were examined are P.Ws. 5 and 6.

 P.W. 5, Ajit Singha claimed that he was a wholesale dealer in fried

rice and used to supply fried rice in the routes of Diamond Harbour,

Canning and Laxmikantapur. While carrying goods, he took the vendor

compartment otherwise he boarded ordinary compartment. On

24.03.2006, he had boarded the cash train from Diamond Harbour at

2.00 p.m. When the train reached at Hotor station, six persons entered

the compartment. In addition to Ranajit Mondal, Joydeep Roy, Bidhan

Ghorui and Azim Mistry, he also identified Sk. Motaleb and one Sunil

Mondal @ Chittu as the miscreants. He stated Bidhan Ghorui and Azim

Mistry stood at the kata gates while Ranajit and Joydeep went inside.

Thereafter the dacoity took place. Motaleb and Sunil brought out

firearms and stopped people from getting down. In cross-examination, the witness stated he is a resident of New

Alipore Station. He did not report the matter to any government

authority but discussed the incident with his friends. He admitted he

was cross-examined 18/19 days after the incident. He, however,

remained silent how he was aware of the identity of the appellants who

admittedly resided far away from his residence. P.W. 6, Biplav Banerjee named Motaleb along with others who

have been identified by P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 as the miscreants who 13 conjointly committed dacoity. He, however, did not name Sunil @ Chittu

but claimed six miscreants had got down from the train after the dacoity.

He stated he knew the miscreants as persons who indulged in snatching

and thefts. In cross-examination, he admitted he did not remember any

crime committed by the appellants earlier. He also had not reported the

matter to the police and was interrogated for the first time 18/19 days

after the incident. P.Ws 7 and 8, Swami Rajibananda and Brahmachari Srinath

Chaitanya are the Secretary and Assistant Headmaster respectively of the

school in which the victim used to study. They corroborated the version

of her mother that the boy had come to take his exam on the fateful day. P.W. 9, Ashoke Das, is the owner of the Tata Sumo vehicle which

was driven by co-accused Momrej @ Bhikhari. He deposed Momrej had

taken out the vehicle on the fateful day and returned at mid-night.

Thereafter did not come. On 12.04.2006 he came along with police and

identified the vehicle. The vehicle was seized and the witness signed on

the seizure list. His son, P.W. 10, Bappa Das, has corroborated his

evidence in court. He also signed on the seizure list. P.W. 11, Dipu Singh, is a van rikshaw puller. He saw Momrej with

a maroon coloured Tata Sumo vehicle at Baruipur petrol pump. After

sometime, Azim and 5 to 6 persons came there and asked him whether

everything was alright. Momrej replied everything was fine and he had 14 filled the car with petrol. All the persons left in the said vehicle. He

identified Azim and Momrej in court. In cross-examination, he deposed

he plied rikshaw van without licence in the Baruipur area. He kept his

van with one Gopal Da of Purna Bazar which was at a distance of 2 k.m.

from petrol pump. He admitted that he was examined 20 days after the

incident. P.W. 12, Dr. Bimalendu Halder, was a medical officer at Baruipur

S.D. Hospital. He deposed one Somnath Majumder was brought to the

hospital and he issued his death certificate. P.W. 13, Dr. Debasish Sarkar, was the doctor who held post

mortem over the body of Somnath. He had opined death was due to

gunshot injury ante-mortem and homicidal in nature. He proved the post

mortem report marked as Exhibit-16. P.W. 14, Deb Kumar Goswami, is the Judicial Officer who held the

test identification parade with regard to Azim Mistry. He deposed P.Ws. 1,

2 and 4 had identified the said accused as the one who fired at the boy. P.W. 20, S.I. Mausam Chakraborty, was posted at Diamond

Harbour GRPS. He received written complaint from P.W. 1 and proceeded

to the place of occurrence. He went to Baruipur S.D. Hospital. He

arrested Ranajit, Bidhan Ghorui and Joydeep Roy @ Raju and arranged

for inquest over the dead body and collected post mortem report. He

seized the wearing apparels of the deceased. He prepared sketch map

with index. He handed over investigation to C.I.D. on 12.04.2006. 15 P.W. 21, Shyamal Kumar Mukherjee, attached to C.I.D. was the

second investigating officer. He arrested Momrej and on his statement

seized the Tata Sumo vehicle bearing no. WB-02M-9455. He also arrested

Sk. Motaleb. In the course of investigation, he came to know Azim Mistry

was arrested in connection with a case in Thakurpukur Police Station by

P.W. 18. He made prayer for showing Azim Mistry arrested in connection

with this case. On the statement of the Azim Mistry (Exhibit-28) he

recovered a six chambered revolver in the presence of P.W. 15. Revolver

was sent for examination and the criminal case started with regard to the

seizure of the revolver at Baruipur Police Station was tagged to the

present case. He submitted charge-sheet. Thereafter obtaining the report

of the ballastic expert (P.W. 16) he submitted the supplementary charge-

sheet. Whether P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 are reliable? On an analysis of the evidence of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4 it appears P.W.

1 who had boarded the last compartment of a Diamond Harbour-Sealdah

local train (commonly referred to as cash train) at Mograhat Railway

Station on 24.03.2006 around 2:30 p.m. with a sum of Rs. 96,950/- had

been robbed by some miscreants. One of the miscreants, namely, Ranajit

Mondal, had put a gun on his stomach and hit his hand with the butt of

the pistol. Joydeep Roy had put the gun on his head and snatched away

his bag containing money. As the miscreants proceeded towards the door,

P.W. 1 stood up and shouted "dacoit" "dacoit". He also proceeded towards 16 the door. At that time he found Bidhan Gharui and Azim Mistry who were

standing at the door of the compartment with arms. Bidhan Gharui

shouted "Awaj Kara" and Azim fired resulting in a fatal injury on a 12

year old boy who was returning after taking exams in his school.

Evidence of the aforesaid witness is corroborated by the mother of the

deceased boy, P.W. 2 as well as a co-passenger P.W. 4. Their depositions

are consistent with one another and clearly establish the roles of the

Ranajit, Joydeep, Bidhan and Azim in snatching away money from P.W. 1

and Azim Mistry shooting at the boy upon the exhortation of Bidhan

Gharui. It has been argued none of the aforesaid appellants except Azim

was put up for test identification parade and had been identified for the

first time in Court. It is also argued Azim was known to P.W. 1 who

stated that he had visited the shop of his mother. Identification of a

witness in court is substantive evidence. Test identification parade of an

accused is undertaken during investigation as corroboration to

identification of the said accused witness in Court. In the event

identification of an accused in court is beyond reproach and inspires

confidence such identification cannot be thrown out on mere plea that no

test identification parade had been undertaken during investigation (see Simon and Others Vs. State of Karnataka1 ; Deepak Alias Wireless

Vs. State of Maharashtra2 ). Various parameters have been laid down to

test the reliability of identification of an accused in Court. Firstly, is the 1 (2004) 2 SCC 694 2 (2012) 8 SCC 785 17 time period as well as the circumstances in which the witnesses had the

opportunity to see the accused. Secondly, is the source of light. Thirdly,

whether the witness had disclosed the features of the accused at the

earlier opportunity. In the present case, the incident occurred around 4

p.m. in a railway compartment. There was sufficient light and all the

witnesses had seen the accused persons at close quarters for a

considerable period of time. Evidence has come on record that the

miscreants had boarded the train at Hotor Railway Station and after

committing dacoity had alighted at Kalyanpur Railway Station. Moreover,

P.Ws. 1 and 2 are the victims in the crime. A sum of over Rs. 96,000/-

was snatched from P.W. 1 while P.W. 2 saw her 12 year old son murdered

before her own eyes. The gravity of the incident would leave an indelible

mark on the mind of the affected witnesses and there is little possibility

of their forgetting the faces of the individuals who were responsible for

their misfortune. It is also to be borne in mind that P.W. 1 had given

description of Ranajit Mondal and Joydeep Roy at the earliest

opportunity in the F.I.R. These circumstances provide sufficient

assurance to the court that the identification by the aforesaid witnesses

of Ranajit Mondal, Joydeep Roy, Bidhan Gharui and Azim Mistry in the

aforesaid incident is wholly reliable. It is argued the specific roles attributed to the appellants were

stated for the first time in Court by these witnesses and the stolen booty

had not been recovered. I find little substance in the aforesaid 18 submissions made on behalf of the appellants. The witnesses have, in

graphic details, stated in Court the manner in which the incident

unfolded. The crux of their versions were recorded in their statements to

the police. It is trite law neither the F.I.R. nor the earlier statements to

police can be an encyclopedia of facts. In this background, a clear and

more detailed description of the specific roles of Ranajit, Joydeep, Bidhan

and Azim in Court does not amount to material contradiction adversely

affecting the credibility of the witnesses. On behalf of Azim Mistry it is

argued P.W. 1 was known to him. Such contention also deserves to be

rejected. On a query from the court, P.W. 1 clarified though he had heard

that the shop visited by him was run by the mother of one Azim Mistry,

he was never acquainted with the latter at any point of time. He saw Azim

Mistry for the first time when the incident occurred and also identified

him in the course of the test identification parade conducted by P.W. 14.

Thus, identification of the appellants namely Ranajit Mondal, Joydeep

Roy, Bidhan Gharui and Azim Mistry in the course of robbery and

murder of Somnath Majumder is clearly established. In this backdrop,

non-recovery of the stolen booty does not affect the truthfulness of the

prosecution case. Non-examination of the employer of P.W. 1, namely,

Golam Md. Gazi or his son Khairul is not fatal. P.W. 1, who was an

employee of Golam Md. and was aware of the handwriting of his son,

Khairul, has proved the F.I.R. scribed by Khairul. P.W. 1 has succinctly

narrated the circumstances in which he was carrying the cash on behalf 19 of his employer and how it was snatched away. Hence, non-examination

of the aforesaid witnesses does not hinder the seamless unfolding of the

prosecution case through the mouth of P.W. 1 and other witnesses.

Credibility of P.Ws. 5 and 6: Both of these witnesses had been examined 20 days after the

incident. I am conscious mere delay in examining a witness would not

erode the truthfulness of his deposition if the same has a ring of truth. As

discussed earlier, versions of P.Ws. 5 and 6 with regard to their

knowledge about the names and identities of the accused persons

appears to be most artificial and unconvincing. From the evidence of

investigating officers P.Ws. 20 and 21 it appears that the names and

identities of the accused persons had all come to light even before the

interrogation of P.W.s 5 and 6. There is no explanation from the

investigating officer how he came to know of the presence of these

witnesses in the compartment on the day of the incident. In this

backdrop, unexplained delay of 20 days in examining these witnesses

assumes significance and gives an impression that they are planted

witnesses. Even the trial Judge expressed doubt with regard to claim of

P.W. 5 and 6 with regard to their knowledge regarding names and

identities of the accused persons. It is pertinent to note the depositions of

P.Ws. 5 and 6 with regard to presence of Sk. Motaleb and Sunil Mondal 21 as participants in the crime is not corroborated by the star witnesses

P.Ws. 1 and 2. Even P.W. 4, a co-passenger has not corroborated their

version with regard to six persons committing dacoity. Thus I am unable

to place reliance on the evidence of P.W. 5 and 6 to come to a conclusion

that Sk. Motaleb and Chittu @ Sunil Mondal had committed dacoity

along with other appellants in the railway compartment on the fateful

day. Whether the offence of dacoity is proved? In the light of the aforesaid analysis of the evidence on record, one

must examine whether offence of dacoity has been proved or not. Section 391 of the Code reads as follows: Essential pre-requisite to prove the offence of dacoity is presence of

five or more persons who conjointly commit or attempt to commit dacoity

or are present and aiding such dacoity or its attempt. P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4

unequivocally stated that four persons armed with pistols had robbed

P.W. 1. P.Ws. 5 and 6 seek to increase the number of miscreants from

four to six. For the reasons discussed earlier, it is difficult to rely on their

evidence which appears to be palpably artificial and not inspiring

confidence. Even if the deposition of P.Ws. 9, 10 and 11 is believed, 22 Momrej Ali Khan @ Bhikari appears to have helped the miscreants by

driving them in the 'Tata Sumo' vehicle and was admittedly not present

at the place of occurrence. Thus, his role in the crime would not change

the number of persons who committed the dacoity or were present and

aiding the crime. In this regard reference may be made to In re:- Ibrahim

and others3 wherein this Court had held that an accused who aided

commission of a robbery but was not present at the spot, cannot be

counted to as a person who committed dacoity as per section 391 of the

I.P.C. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the opinion the

prosecution has not been able to prove that the robbery committed by

Ranajit Mondal @ Rana, Joydeep Roy @ Raju, Bidhan Ghorui and Azim

Mistry would transcend to one of dacoity as defined in section 391 I.P.C.

Thus, the appellants cannot be convicted for the offence of dacoity with

murder under section 396 I.P.C. since commission of dacoity is an

essential ingredient of the said offence. Whether the offence under section 302 read with section 34 of the

I.P.C. is proved? There is ample evidence on record particularly P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4

that on the exhortation of Bidhan Ghorui, Azim Mistry had fired at the

minor child resulting in his death. Ocular version of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 4

finds corroboration from the medical evidence on record. 3 AIR 1926 Cal 374 23 It has been argued none of the miscreants including Bidhan

Ghorui and Azim Mistry had intended to murder the deceased. I find

such submission wholly misplaced. Section 300 I.P.C. reads as follows:- It may also be relevant to note illustration (d) to the aforesaid

section. In the present case Bidhan Ghorui had exhorted Azim Mistry to fire

by stating 'Awaj Kara'. Pursuant to such exhortation, Azim Mistry fired at

the sitting passengers, one of whom was a 12-year old minor child who

died due to gun-shot injury. Act of Azim Mistry in mercilessly firing at

passengers in a train compartment pursuant to exhortation of co-

accused Bidhan Ghorui was so imminently dangerous that it must in all

certainty have caused death or bodily injury likely to cause death

attracting the 4th clause of section 300 IPC. However I do not find any

active participation of the other appellants in the said act. 24 Mr. Ahmed strenuously argues all the appellants were armed and

shared common intention to commit the murder. There is clear

distinction between the vicarious liability envisaged under section 396 I.P.C. vis-à-vis section 34 of the I.P.C. Ingredients of section 396 I.P.C.

are as follows: If the aforesaid conditions are proved, prosecution is not called

upon to show each one of the gang of dacoits shared common intention

to murder. On the other hand, to attract the offence under section 302

read with section 34 of the I.P.C., prosecution must prove each of the

accuseds shared common intention to murder and pursuant to such

common intention, murder had been committed. As discussed earlier, I am of the view prosecution has not been

able to prove that robbery had been committed by five or more persons in

the present case. Thus, charge under section 396 IPC ought to fail and

mere membership in a group to commit robbery would not ipso facto

attract the vicarious liability as envisaged under section 34 of the Indian

Penal Code for the offence of murder. Under such circumstances, could

the appellants be convicted in the alternative under section 302 read with section 34 of the I.P.C.? In Shyan Behari Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh4 ,

a Constitution Bench held if the charge under section 396 of the I.P.C. 4 AIR 1957 SC 320 25 fails and accused may be convicted for the offence of murder if the

evidence shows that he had committed the murder. This view is

reiterated by the Apex Court in Rafiq Ahmed alias Rafi Vs. State of

Uttar Pradesh5 wherein it is held conviction under section 302 of the

I.P.C. would not prejudice the accused. In the present case, alternative

charge under section 302 read with section 34 of the I.P.C. was framed

against the appellants. No order of acquittal on the said charges was

recorded by the trial Court as it had proceeded to convict the appellants

under section 396 of the I.P.C. In similar circumstances, the Apex Court

in Ramdeo Rai Yadav Vs. State of Bihar6 held conviction of the

accused under section 302 of the I.P.C. is maintainable. However, to do

so, it must be shown that the accused had committed the murder or

shared common intention altogether to do so. Analysing the roles of the

appellants in that perspective I find Bidhan Ghorui had exhorted Azim

Mistry to fire by stating "Awaj Kara" and thereupon Azim Mistry indulged

in an imminently dangerous act of firing at innocent passengers which

inevitably would have caused loss of life. In fact, a 12 years old boy died

due to such firing. In this factual matrix, conduct of the aforesaid

appellants clearly establish their common intention to murder pursuant

to which the child was killed. With regard to other appellants that is,

Ranajit Mondal and Joydeep Roy @ Raju though they had participated in

the robbery and were armed, they did not play any role in the murder of 5 (2011) 8 SCC 300 6 (1990) 2 SCC 675 26 the child. They had not used the firearms. This circumstance persuaded

me to come to the conclusion the said appellants did not share common

intention with Bidhan Gharui and Azim Mistry to murder the victim.

Under such circumstances, I am inclined to hold that the evidence on

record has proved specific roles played by Azim Mistry in firing upon

exhorting of Bidhan Gharui resulting in the death of the minor Somnath

Majumdar. Thus, ingredients of the offence punishable under section 302

read with section 34 of the I.P.C. are proved against them. However, the

other appellants, namely, Ranajit Mondal and Joydeep Roy who were

present at the place of occurrence and participated in the robbery did not

use their firearms or by any other conduct displayed sharing of common

intention with the other aforenamed appellants to murder the deceased. Hence, they cannot be convicted under section 302 read with section 34

of the I.P.C. Their conviction under section 396 of the I.P.C. altered to

392 of the I.P.C. As I have not believed P.Ws. 5 and 6, presence of Motaleb at the

place of occurrence and his participation in the robbery is not proved.

Hence, prosecution case against him altogether fails and he is entitled to

an order of acquittal. In this backdrop and keeping in mind the clear evidence on record

with regard to specific roles played by Azim Mistry in firing upon

exhortation of Bidhan resulting in the death of a child Somnath

Majumder I am of the opinion no prejudice would be caused in the event 27 the said appellants are convicted under section 302 I.P.C. read with section 34 I.P.C. However, since the number of persons committing

robbery has not been proved to be five or more, conviction of Ranajit

Mondal and Joydeep Roy are altered to section 392 of the I.P.C.

Conclusion: Conviction of Bidhan Ghorui and Azim Mistry is recorded under

section 302 read with section 34 of the I.P.C. instead of 396 of the I.P.C .

Sentence imposed upon the aforesaid appellants, namely, Bidhan Ghorui

and Azim Mistry shall remain unaltered. This Court is informed Ranajit Mondal @ Rana and Joydeep Roy @

Raju have already suffered imprisonment for 16 years. Under such 28 circumstances, they may be released from custody, if not wanted in any

other case, upon executing a bond to the satisfaction of the trial court

which shall remain in force for a period of six months in terms of section

437A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Period of detention suffered by the appellants during investigation,

enquiry and trial shall be set off from the substantive sentence imposed

upon them in terms of section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The appeals are, accordingly, disposed of. Connected applications,

if any, also stands disposed of. Lower court records along with copies of this judgment be sent

down at once to the learned trial court as well as the Superintendent of

Correctional Home for necessary compliance. Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the

parties on priority basis on compliance of all formalities. I agree.