With consent heard finally. 2. By this revision preferred under Section 397 / 401 of the Cr.P.C. the
 petitioners have challenged the order dated 05.01.2023 passed by the XIth
 Additional Session Judge, Indore in Session Trial No.546/2022 whereby Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAGDEVE Signing time: 03-Aug-23 2:31:25 PM 2 charges under Section 3 / 4 of M.P. Public Gambling Act, 1867 and under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC and Sections 66-B and 66-C of
 Information Technology Act, 2000 have been framed against them. 3. The story of the prosecution is that on the basis of a secret
 information received the Police party reached a house bearing No.169 at Kranti
 Kraplani Nagar, Indore and entered the same and found the petitioners over
 there. From their possession a laptop, calculator, mobile phone, register, pen
 drive, T.V., SIM and cash Rs.4,60,700/- was recovered which was the money
 for gambling in a cricket match of IPL. On enquiry, they revealed that they had
 obtained the sim cards in the name of some other person by using forged

 documents. On the basis of the aforesaid raid having been conducted, offences
 under the aforesaid acts and sections were registered against petitioners and
 upon completion of the investigation charge-sheet was filed before the Court
 concerned and eventually the charges as stated above have been framed against
 the petitioners. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that even if the entire
 material on record is taken to be true as its face value no offence is made out
 against the petitioners. It is submitted that though the allegation is that the sim
 cards recovered from the petitioners were obtained fraudulently and by using
 forged documents, but no such forged documents have been recovered in the
 matter. Even the persons namely Rajaram and Rohit in whose name the sim
 cards have been issued have expressed not having any knowledge about the
 entire incident and have stated that they do not know as to how their documents
 were misused. It is hence submitted that offence under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC is not made out against the petitioners. It is further
 submitted that there is no allegation levelled against the petitioners that laptop, Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAGDEVE Signing time: 03-Aug-23 2:31:25 PM 3 mobile phone etc. which have been recovered from them were dishonestly
 received by them knowing them to be stolen property. The offence under Section 66-B of the Information Technology Act, 2000 is also not made out
 against the petitioners. 5 . Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/State has submitted
 that there is ample material available on record for framing of charges against
 the petitioners for the aforesaid offences and it cannot be said that the charges
 as have been framed by the Court below are not supported from the record.
 Petitioners have obtained SIM cards in name of some other persons by using
 forged documents and even those persons have stated that they are not aware
 as to how the same was done. Petitioners have not produced any document to
 show their ownership of the laptop etc. recovered from them. It is hence
 submitted that no ground has been made out for quashment of the charges
 against the petitioners. 6. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and have
 perused the record. 7. Section 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC being material are reproduced as
 under:- Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document [or
 electronic record] which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged
 document [or electronic record], shall be punished in the same manner as if
 he had forged such document [or electronic record]. 8. For the applicability of the aforesaid sections, it is imperative that there
 must be some document which has been forged by the accused and has been
 used as a genuine document. There should be an element of cheating in the
 same and it should also be shown that the accused possessed the document
 knowing it to be forged and thereafter intended to and used it as genuine. 9. In the present case, it is only the allegation against the petitioners that
 they had obtained the sim cards in name of some other persons by using forged
 documents. However, those documents which are alleged to have been used for
 the purpose of securing the forged SIM cards have not been recovered. In
 absence of any document which is alleged to be forged, it is very difficult to
 make out an offence under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC. Even the
 persons in whose name those documents were prepared have not stated that
 those documents are not theirs and have instead stated that they are not aware
 of anything in the matter. Thus offence under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the
 IPC is not made out against the petitioners. 10. Section 66-B and 66-C of the Information Technology Act, 2000 is
 as under:- 11. For attracting the provisions of Sections 66-B of the Act, 2000 it has
 to be atleast alleged that the accused dishonestly received or retained any stolen
 computer resource or communication device knowing the same to be stolen.
 The laptop, computer etc. which have been recovered from the possession of
 the petitioners have not been shown not to be owned by them and to be owned
 by some third person and which have been received and retained by the
 petitioners knowing that they are stolen. There is no document of ownership of
 these articles hence prima facie itself it has not been shown that they are stolen
 articles. The question of the petitioners receiving or retaining the same hence
 does not arise. As far as Section 66-C of the Act, 2000 is concerned there is no
 allegation of use of any electronic signature, password or any other unique
 identification feature of any other person by the petitioners. The said offence is
 also not made out against the petitioners. 12. Thus in view of the aforesaid, it is apparent that the offences under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC and Section 66-B and 66-C of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000 are not made out against the petitioners even
 if the entire allegations as levelled against them and the material contained in the
 charge-sheet is taken to be true at the stage. As a result, the charges framed
 against the petitioners for the aforesaid offences are hereby quashed. The
 petition is accordingly allowed in part. (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE
 Shilpa Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAGDEVE Signing time: 03-Aug-23 2:31:25 PM 6 Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAGDEVE Signing time: 03-Aug-23 2:31:25 PM