YouTube has announced the testing of restyled music tracks created by AI for YouTube Shorts. The experimental feature enables a small group of creators to restyle a set number of official songs made available by select music partners.

This feature comes as an addition to YouTube’s Dream Track experiment that allowed a handful of US-based creators to curate soundtracks comprising the AI-generated voices of select artists including Charlie Puth, Sia, Demi Lovato, John Legend, Alec Benjamin, Charli XCX, Papoose, T-Pain, and Troy Sivan. The Dream Track soundtracks are created by remixing the AI voices of the artists who had their consent to the experiment, and could then be used to create Shorts.

According to YouTube , creators from the experiment group can select from the limited variety of songs available, following which they could describe their vision for reshaping the song. Within their description, creators could seek to redefine the genre or mood of the song via the ‘Restyle a track’ prompt. AI would then produce a “unique 30-second soundtrack” that can be used to create Shorts.

The restyled soundtrack would have a clear attribution to the original song mentioned in the Short itself and within the Shorts audio pivot page. The Short would also display explicitly that the track was reimagined using AI.

While using the Dream Track soundtracks, Shorts curated by creators follow the same monetisation policies based on the Ad Revenue Sharing model as Shorts with regular music. Additionally, the curated soundtracks cannot be downloaded by viewers. These conditions were set forth during the testing of AI-generated soundtracks created earlier in 2023 . However, there is no explicit mention of the same with the new AI capability using songs by select music partners.

Additionally, while there will exist a clear attribution to the original song within the Short, the remix itself runs the risk of threatening the authenticity of human artistry. As such, music labels and composers have also expressed concern over the identical nature of songs mixed using AI and those produced by real artists. Universal Music Group, one of the premier music companies, has been in vehement opposition of AI music, in 2023 going so far as to labelling it “fraud” and advocating for its ban.

Earlier this year, MediaNama had also reported on the discussions initiated by YouTube with record labels like Sony, Warner, and Universal with the view of licensing their songs for the creation of a unique AI-based song generator.

There isn’t, however, a clear consensus in terms of the general adaption of AI in the music industry. While a letter from 200+ musicians earlier in 2024 called on AI developers, companies and platforms to “cease the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to infringe upon and devalue the rights of human artists”, in India, During a panel discussion at the FICCI Frames 2024 , several professionals from the music industry termed AI a “great enabler” stating that it aids efficiency.

In addition to the remixing of soundtracks utilising AI capabilities, YouTube has employed the technology to alter the gesture navigation on its mobile application. This feature automatically starts playing the next video as per the recommendation of YouTube AI.

Besides this, YouTube was also experimenting with AI-enhanced comment reply suggestions that could allow creators to respond to the audience in their own tone and style. This optional feature essentially displayed AI-generated recommended replies in the Comments tab in the Studio and YouTube mobile application.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event