UP’s Cyber Crime wing has unearthed pan-India frauds worth Rs 4,200 cr with links to China, a senior police official said in a PTI report published by TOI .

Why it matters: In April this year, the UP Police Cyber Cell claimed to have busted an “ online fraud nexus ” worth Rs 3000 cr with links to China. They claimed this involved scamming people through instant lending apps and duping people by promising them part-time jobs. “But now their connection has also been established in frauds on the pretext of cryptocurrency trading through bogus and fake websites,” taking the total “estimated value” of frauds to Rs 4,200 cr, Triveni Singh, UP Cyber Crime Superintendent of Police told PTI.

Modus Operandi of crypto scammers

Scammers create “fake websites and apps for crypto trading and lure investors into investing money in return for huge profits”, Singh said.

For instance, in this case – scammers created a platform where users could see their profits rising while trading in crypto, but in reality, only the numbers on the screen were increasing, explained Singh, indicating that there was no increase in the actual bank balance or online wallet balance. Once the funds were transferred to a fake platform “the investors never get any money back,” said Singh.

When asked how this money reaches the fraudsters running the funds from outside the country, Singh said that in the beginning, the funds are transferred to the platform’s Indian bank accounts and digital wallets. “This money is then transferred to Zebpay (a crypto exchange platform accessible in India)” and to Binance (an international crypto exchange platform). The money is then “accessed by the masterminds of the whole scam”, Singh added.

Crackdown on Chinese apps

Several such scams have come to the forefront in the recent past, and the government and the RBI are taking steps to mitigate the problem. To curb the issue of unauthorised lending apps, the RBI has been asked to prepare a ‘whitelist’ of legal loan apps. And it is proposed that only these apps will be hosted on the Google Play and Apple App store.

On September 2 this year ED raided the premises of certain gateways and seized Rs 17 cr of “Chinese persons-controlled entities.”

Be cautious when it’s ‘too good to be true’

“The instant loan apps, the part-time job offers and now the crypto trading fraud, all of them are being operated by the same hackers from China. The SMS aggregators are also involved in it,” Singh said.

He urged people to be cautious if they receive any “offer for a part-time job, or instant loan or huge returns on cryptocurrency trading, then there are high chances of these being fraud attempts from Chinese operators. People need to be careful.”

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event