I am a victim of Country Club Sector 18, Noida. (We paid Rs. 55000 amount via credit card on 17th February, 2014 and receipt# for the payment is:[protected] I have been cheated by them as they told me that they have tie up with SBI credit cards and they will convert my amount in 18 months EMI. But i confirm with SBI that they have not received any request from Merchant regarding 18 months EMI. I requested them to cancel the membership but they did not. After that i have called SBI to convert it into 18 months EMI which they told that they have 6, 12 and 24 months option. So I chose 24 months and now paid more than Rs. 15000 interest charges on it. The merchant is not listening to me and I have filed a case against them in consumer court. The card was not swiped in my presence. I don't want to continue my membership with the Country Club and want my money refunded. I have been forced into this membership by offering loads of benefits which are false. They have not given time to read the agreement nor to consult by making the statement that this offer is valid for today only. (But i got to know that many people got this offer after that day also). I have been told that I have to pay the membership amount in 18 Months EMI, which was not done and I confirmed it with the bank also. I have converted it in 24 Months EMI after consulting with the Country club Manager with Rs.15, 950/- interest charges and Rs.750/- processing fees. They have promised to pay the interest charges(by sending draft) but they don't and offer different offers against them. At the time of membership they have not disclosed that the membership is non refundable. I have paid approx. Rs.3000 every month from my earnings, I don't have any faith in their commitments and that's why I want to cancel my membership with Country Club India and get our hard earned money back. 1. They have not given time to read the agreement nor to consult by making the statement that this offer is valid for today only. But i got to know that many people got this offer after that day also. 2. I told them I can't pay Rs. 55, 000 so they told me that they will convert the membership amount in 18 months EMI as they have tie up with most of the banks. They told me that I will receive a message after it has been converted to EMI from the bank. But I have never received any message. So I called up the bank and they told me that they have not received any request from the merchant to convert it into EMI (I have also seen in the merchant documents sent by bank as EMI option is not selected in it also). 3. After that I have called them so many times and visited their office also, then they told me that due to some problem we are not able to convert it into EMI, so you have to pay full amount or go with SBI EMI option as your own and we will pay the interest charges. I told them to cancel the membership but they said it is non refundable which was not told at the time of taking membership.(All the conversation and details I have sent earlier at the bank). 4. They are giving me different offers against the interest charges i.e. of Rs.15950/- : Manager told to waive off first two years Annual Maintenance charges, but got a mail from customer support which was different i.e. waive off first year charges and some spa coupons (Coupons are useless and are also with me which they have given at the time of membership and the executive told that if you need more just come and take any time they are free). Now they are giving more coupons. 5. I told them that what is the benefit to you as you are giving 7500 (AMC waive off) + 15, 000 (Spa coupons already have) + 15, 000 (Coupons offered) i.e. 37, 500, it is better to cancel my membership and refund the money so that no one will suffer. 6. Customer support and Managers no one is helpful in resolving the problem. They are there to make fools of innocent people. I have also received a few calls from Delhi NCR that people are also victimized by the Country club. Now they are regularly demanding the AMC amount Rs.45091 I am requesting the Court, kindly help me in getting my money back as I have been fighting against the country club since 2014.