1. Mr. Rahul Choudhary, Learned Counsel appearing for applicant is

present and on behalf of Housing and Urban Development Department,

J&K, Shri Prashant Goyal, Principal Secretary assisted by various Senior

Officers of Mining Department and others are present. 2. Grievance in this application is against failure to prevent illegal

mining, discharge of sewage and dumping of solid waste into River Doodh

Ganga and Mamath Kull, in violation of provisions of Water (Prevention 1 and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 , judgment of Supreme Court dated

22.02.2017 inter-alia in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti vs. Union of India ,

(2017) 5 SCC 326 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. 3. Case set out in the application is that Doodh Ganga is a tributary of

Jhelum river. It originates from Pir Panjaal Mountain and, thereafter,

passing through number of villages and towns up-stream to down-stream

like Sogam, Chadoora, Wathora, Kralpora, Bagh-e-Mehtab, Channapora,

Natipora, Barzulla, Bulbul Bagh, it merges into Hoker Sar Lake at

Lawaypora, Narbal and eventually, meets Jhelum river. Mamath Kull also

originates from Pir Panjal Mountains and after passing through number of

villages in Budgam District, enters the Mamath Village which is 1 km away

from the stream and, thereafter, first enters Hokersar Lake and eventually

meets Jhelum river. Rivers Doodh Ganga and Mamath Kull have been

subjected to pollution from pesticides from Apple Orchards, discharge of

untreated sewage and dumping of municipal solid wastes from the area

falling under Srinagar Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committee of

Budgam. 4. Precise submissions set out in the application are as follows: 5. The areas where untreated sewage is being discharged are

mentioned as follows: 6. In support of above, applicant has filed photographs and a report of

applicant published in Greater Kashmir titled "SMC converting Doodh

Ganga into a drain". Applicant has also filed copies of letters of State PCB

addressed to Srinagar Municipal Corporation against dewatering stations

having potential to pollute water. Applicant has also annexed

representation dated 11.08.2021 addressed to Chief Secretary, J&K,

Member Secretary, J&K Pollution Control Committee, Member Secretary, CPC B, Commissioner, Srinagar Municipal Corporation, Director, Urban

Local Bodies, Kashmir, Deputy Commissioners, Srinagar and Budgam. Applicant has also relied upon letter dated 10.09.2021 from Regional

Director, J&K PCC to Member Secretary, J&K PCC stating that on analysis

of water samples, discharge of pollution in the rivers was established. The

letter is reproduced below: 7. The matter was earlier considered on 18.10.2021 and 08.03.2022. Pursuant to the above orders, an action taken Report was filed by J&K

Government on 24.06.2022 which showed that untreated sewage was still

being discharged into river. A part of legacy waste was removed but there

was nothing to show that the same was scientifically processed/handled. Illegal mining was said to have been stopped. It was stated that restoration

measures will require Rs. 30.85 Crores for development of green belts and

soil erosion control measures on the embankments of river Doodh

Ganga/Mamath Kull covering a total length of 42 Kms. The said damage

appeared to be direct result of illegal mining. It was further stated that for

beautification of embankments from Doodh Ganga Nallah from Branwar

upto Railway Bridge Bagh-i-Mehtab, further amount of Rs. 5.82 Crores will

be required. Action taken against illegal mining was lodging FIRs,

dismantling of approach roads, seizing of tools/

equipments/vehicles/JCBs. 36 vehicles were seized which were involved

in illegal extraction/transportation of minerals with collection of Rs. 4,53,338/- as compounding/penalty from the offenders. 8. The relevant extract of the Report was referred to in the order dated

14.10.2022. In the said Report, it was also stated with regard to waste

management in the State that action plan has been prepared for amount

Rs. 648 Crores. For sewage treatment beyond Bagh-e-Mehtab, plan has

been prepared for an amount of Rs. 89.34 Crores. For treatment of Doodh

Ganga Nallah from Bemina to Baghi-Mehtab, Srinagar was already

reflected in the DPR submitted to JICA for an amount of Rs. 964.48 Crores. It was further stated that total sewage generated from 07 wards of Srinagar

Municipal Corporation forming the catchment of 13 dewatering stations 5 (10 main and 03 secondary) on the two sides of Doodh Ganga Nallah is

estimated as 16.23 MLD, whereas the untreated sewage falling into Doodh

Ganga Nallah through these dewatering stations was 12.25 MLD. Balance

sewage of 4.11 MLD got treated in the septic tanks/soakage pits. 9. The said Report was commented adversely by applicant and

comments of applicant were also reproduced in para 11 of order dated

14.10.2022. Thereafter, matter was examined on merits on 14.10.2022 and

relevant extract of order dated 14.10.2022 reads as under: 14. There is nothing to show that compensation recovered covers
 the cost of restoration with deterrent element having regard to the
 value of illegal mining. The State PCB in coordination with the
 concerned Departments may take further action in this regard failing
 which the State itself will be liable to pay compensation for failing to
 perform its duties. 15. The above discussion shows that there still exist huge gaps in
 management of solid and liquid waste even after 8 years of monitoring
 by this Tribunal after order of Hon'ble Supreme Court on 2.9.2014 in
 Almitra Patel, supra and more than 5 years after order of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court dated 22.2.2107 in Paryavaran Suraksha. Need to consider change in approach for administrative
 processes 6 16. There appears to be need for change in approach in realizing
that remedial action cannot wait for indefinite period nor loose ended
time lines without accountability can be a solution. Responsibility of
the State is to have comprehensive time bound plan with tied up
resources to control pollution which is its absolute liability. If there is
deficit in budgetary allocations, it is for the State alone to have suitable
planning by reducing cost or augmenting resources. People must be
involved in the problem by appropriate awareness and strategies to
encourage public participation and contribution. At the cost of
repetition, health issues cannot be deferred to long future. Long future
dates breach of which has taken place frequently in the past without
accountability is not a convincing solution. It is poor substitute for
compliance within laid down timelines for long past. This approach
may project lack of concern or not realizing the grim ground situation
crying for emergent remedial measures on priority. There is no time for
leisure, reflected in timelines proposed for bridging the acknowledged
gaps. 17. It appears to be necessary to brain storm with available experts
and other stake holders in the State at different levels, evolve models
for both solid and sewage management which can be fast replicated,
initiate special campaigns with community/media involvement in the
larger interest of protecting environment and public health with
determination for prompt action. Such brain storming sessions may
enable capacity enhancement of the regulators and the processes.
Campaigns and community involvement may result in reducing the
financial and administrative load on the administration. Need to explore implementation mechanism 18. In the light of above observations, it appears that there is need
for paradigm shift in handling of the situation. The nagging problem of
waste management stares the administration in the face and remains
unresolved to the detriment of environment and public health. First
change required is to set up a centralized single window
mechanism for planning, capacity building and monitoring of
waste management at the State level. Of course, local authorities
have to do their duty and stocktaking at the district levels may
continue but subject to supervision and control of such mechanism. It
should be headed by an officer of the rank of Additional Chief
Secretary with representation from concerned departments -
Urban Development, Rural Development, Environment and
Forest, Agriculture, Water Resources, Fisheries and Industries.
The mechanism should be working on fulltime basis. Its functions
should include preparing a comprehensive blue print, periodic review
of progress in bridging the gaps in sewage and solid waste
management and establishing, continuous interaction with the
stakeholders, including experts and institutions, concerned
departments, community members and all other stakeholders. There
must be a continuous training programme for those involved in
execution of waste management projects. It should be responsible for
selecting service providers and simplifying procedures for fixing terms
of engagement. Best practices are to be evolved and followed. 19. Mechanism be considered to engage service providers by due
diligent process who may execute work relating to solid and sewage 7 management simultaneously throughout the State - all districts, cities
and towns. Solid waste management 20. Dump sites in operation as well as the legacy waste dump sites
occupy huge area of valuable public lands. They remain source of air,
water and land pollution resulting in damage to environment and
public health. They emit intolerable smell and cause hazardous and
unsafe environment for inhabitants in the vicinity. Their life is hell
which is denial of their constitutional and human rights. In terms of
money also, huge loss is caused to public health and environment.
This situation is not acceptable in a civilized society governed by rule
of law. For victims of situation, there is no governance. 21. While addressing the issue on bridging the gap in management
of MSW, segregation of the solid waste at source and its earliest
processing nearest to the point of generation with defined destination
is imperative. In particular, adequate
compositing/vermicomposting/bio-methanation centers need to be set
up and upgraded nearest to the source of generation of wet solid
waste, listing people's involvement. This may also require de-
centralized waste processing facilities. Waste generators can
themselves be required to process the waste under guidance and
handholding by the Administration, with the assistance of identified
empaneled service providers and such details may be posted on
State's/Center's GeM portal. This may perhaps reduce planned
expenditure. Option of waste energy projects for bigger cities or at
regional/cluster level needs consideration. 22. Execution plan would include setting up of requisite waste
processing plants (centralized and decentralized) and remediation of
left out legacy waste dump sites. Bio-remediation/bio-mining process
need to be executed as per CPC B guidelines and the stabilized organic
waste from biomining as well as from compost plants need to comply
with laid down specifications. Other material recovered during such
processes are to be put to use through authorized
dealers/handlers/users. Instead of creating more dumping sites for
only dumping of waste generated on day-to-day basis unless, waste
processing plants of adequate capacity should be set up so that no
further legacy waste is generated. Fencing and maintaining legacy waste sites 23. Legacy waste sites must be maintained free from fires and
safety of workers engaged should be ensured. Such sites may be
fenced with row of trees or wall, as may be viable, for aesthetics,
preventing foul smell and safety. Provisions of Schedule-I of the SWM
Rules, 2016 may be strictly followed. Water quality in the vicinity of
legacy waste dump sites may be periodically monitored. If any
contamination is found, remedial action may be taken. Environmental
safety aspects associated with legacy waste dump sites be complied
with as specified in Schedule I of MSW Rules, 2016. Use of reclaimed land occupied by legacy waste sites 8 24. As already mentioned earlier, legacy waste dump sites have
resulted in huge damage to the environment and population in the
vicinity of such dump sites who have suffered in safety, health and
comfort. For compensating them for such damage, one third of land
occupied by legacy dump sites (on reclamation) needs to be reserved
for dense forest and in the process of afforestation, Campa Funds can
be utilized in accordance with the provisions of Compensatory
Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority Act,
2016 (CAMPA Act). One third of reclaimed land out of the said dump
site needs to be reserved for integrated waste management facilities.
Remaining one third can be used for any other purpose, consistent
with the above purposes, including a part of it being utilized for
monetizing, if funding is required for tackling the legacy waste. Legacy
waste clearance has to be in minimum further time as laid down
statutory timelines have already expired and serious damage is
taking place. It may be noted that remediation of legacy sites may be
one time affair and such situations should not arise in future. User of
land, to be reclaimed, needs to be declared in advance so that further
steps can be taken in that direction. Maintaining sources of clean water (rivers, storm water drains
and water bodies - lakes, wetlands etc.) free from treated or
untreated sewage, channelizing treated sewage for non potable
purposes 25. We also find that sanctity and significance of natural
storm water drains needs to be maintained. Storm water drains,
if left unpolluted, can be source of drinking water for humans, birds,
animals or aquatic life and discharge of sewage or even treated water
which is not of standard of drinking water, seriously affects such
drinking water resource adversely affecting their health. They are not
to serve as sewage carrier. Failure of duties of the State on this aspect
has resulted in pollution of rivers. It is evident from the data that huge
amount of untreated sewage is being discharged into rivers or
otherwise has to be avoided and managed without mixing in storm
water drains/rivers/waterbodies. 26. As already observed, there is need for planning to prevent
sewage (treated or untreated) entering the potable water resources.
Instead, the same is to be suitably treated and channelized for non-
potable purposes - agriculture, industrial or others. 27. The restoration measures with respect to sewage
management include identifying sites for setting up of sewage
treatment and utilization systems, upgrading systems/operations of
existing sewage treatment facilities to ensure utilization of their full
capacities, ensuring compliance of standards, including those of fecal
coliform and setting up of proper fecal sewage and sludge
management in rural areas. STPs need to have co-treatment facilities
of septage rather than having isolated FSTPs. Guidelines of SBM - U
2.0 may be referred to in this respect. For urban areas, SBM-U 2.0
provides co-treatment of fecal sludge at STPs with sewage for which
funding provisions are made. Utilisation of already set up STPs 9 28. We have found that even where STPs of adequate capacity have
been set up, the capacity is not fully utilized and standards of
water quality not always met. This aspect needs to be looked into
on continuous basis by a centralised mechanism which may be set up
preferably within a month. 29. Timeline for the establishing requisite treatment systems in
terms of judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Suraksha
vs. Union of India , supra has long expired. This Tribunal has already
laid down that for delay after 01.04.2020, coercive measures are to
be taken but the State has failed to do so. Till the gaps are bridged,
untreated liquid waste will continue to remain source of degradation
of environment and damage to public health, including deaths and
diseases which the society can ill afford. Common man will be
deprived of access to potable water on account of failure of the State
to protect potable water sources from pollution. Hence, the urgency of
the situation for good governance for ensuring emergent measures in
public interest to protect the environment, natural resources and public
health as per mandate of the Constitution. We have to levy
compensation for continuing violation on polluter pays principle to be
utilised for restoration measures, following observations in para 30
above. 30. As already noted and also observed in the judgement of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Surakhsha , supra, quoted
earlier, the matter falls in 11th and 12th Schedules to the Constitution.
It is constitutional responsibility of the State and the Local Bodies to
provide pollution free environment and to arrange necessary funds
from contributors or others. Being part of right to life, which is also
basic human right and absolute liability of the State, lack of funds or
other resources such as land (sites for waste management) cannot be
plea to deny such right. Such resources have to be found by the State
by its policies and according due priority to the subject. Further, while
there may be no objection to any central funds being availed, the State
cannot avoid its responsibility or delay its discharge on that pretext.
Freeship or other policies involving State resources cannot take priority
over basic need for hygiene and pollution free environment. 31. It is a matter of concern that even after 48 years of enactment
of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and expiry of
timelines for taking necessary steps for solid waste management in
terms of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and binding direction
in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal in Almitra H. Patel vs. Union of India & Ors. and Paryavaran Suraksha
vs. Union of India , supra, huge gaps still exist. Are there
insurmountable difficulties for State authorities or lack of will and
determination? We find it difficult to believe the first. In our view, it is
lack of good governance and determination responsible for the
situation which needs to be remedied soonest. Sewage Management 32. Similarly, sewage can be required to be processed by cost-
effective methods at least at several identified locations with least
expenses. Decentralized and the prefabricated/modular treatment
plants can be explored, apart from imposing condition of ZLD on
industries, Group Housing Societies etc. Reduced load can be 10 processed partly with the help of water using commercial
 establishments requiring water for their processes enforcing consent
 conditions in CTEs and CTOs whereby State's financial burden can
 be reduced. It may be worthwhile to look into and follow "Ready
 Reckoner on Municipal Used Water Treatment Technologies for
 Medium and Small Towns", compiled and published by Central Health
 Engineering Organisation, Ministry of Housing and Urban
 Development, GoI, on 28th September, 20221 which provides
 information about low cost technologies for treatment of sewage and
 use of treated water without discharging it in drains/rivers. 33. Compliance of environmental norms on the subject of waste
 management has to be on high on priority. It is high time that the State
 realizes its duty to law and to citizens and adopts further monitoring
 at its own level. Adhering to the timelines 34. Since the issue has been pending since long and there are
 adverse effects of continuing delay on environment and public health,
 it cannot be a matter of satisfaction that some steps are taken till the
 entirety of the problem is tackled on war footing. Planning has to be to
 resolve the problem without any further delay, in shortest possible
 time. Whatever timeline is laid down, it should not be breached. If
 breached, adverse consequences for such failures must follow on the
 designated accountable officers instead of loose-ended processes. Community involvement 35. Another important subject is community involvement not only
 for IEC activities but also for planning and execution of waste
 management activities. Welfare associations, corporates, religious,
 educational and charitable institutions can play their role. The District
 Environment Plans must have authentic and updated database which
 can be helpful for policy making and execution of projects. State's liability 36. Apart from compliance in future, the liability of the State has to
 be fixed for the past violations in the light of earlier binding orders
 passed in pursuance of orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court dated
 2.9.2014 in WP 888/1996, Almitra Patel and dated 22.2.2017 in WP
 375/2012, Paryavaran Suraksha. Order dated 22.12.2016 in Almitra
 Patel clearly laid down liability for compensation for breach of
 statutory timelines. Similarly, liability for compensation was laid
 down for failing to install water pollution control devices after
 31.3.2020. The Tribunal has to follow 'Polluter Pays' principle under Section 20 of the NGT Act. The State Authorities contributing to the
 pollution by failing in their constitutional duties are to be held
 accountable on this principle. Admittedly, timelines under Supreme
 Court orders and orders of this Tribunal for preventing water pollution
 and statutory timelines for solid waste management are over. Thus,
 atleast from 01.01.2021, the 'Polluter Pays' principle has to be
 applied. Compensation has to be equal to the loss to the environment
 and also taking into account cost of remediation. https://sbmurban.org/storage/app/media/rr-final-signed.pdf 11 37. Following the recent orders on the subject2, we fix compensation
 for discharge of untreated sewage in the drain at Rs.32 crore and for
 failure to process solid waste at Rs.3 crore. We had earlier levied
 interim compensation of Rs. 3 Crores which may be adjusted.
 Remaining of Rs. 32 Crores be deposited by the State in a ring-fenced
 account to be operated as per directions of the Chief Secretary for
 restoration of the Environment which will include preventing discharge
 of sewage in unscientific manner in drains or otherwise and improving
 the water quality of the drain. Part of the amount may be utilized for
 restoration of legacy waste dump site and for remediation of the
 leftover legacy waste. 38. An action taken report in pursuance of above order particularly
 with reference to setting up of decentralized and centralized STPs and
 stopping discharges from waste discharging points to Doodhganga
 and Mamath Kull. Further, 90 MTs shifted solid waste to other site be
 remediated including already existing legacy waste and providing
 status on waste processing plants may be filed by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support
 PDF and not in the form of Image PDF on or before 30.04.2023. The
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development, J&K may remain present in
 person by VC on the next date." 10. We are informed about amount of compensation, as directed in para

 37 of earlier order, that all procedural aspects have been taken care and

 the amount shall be deposited within 15 days. 11. Pursuant to directions given in order dated 14.10.2022, Report dated

 28.04.2023 has been filed by Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban

 Development Department, J&K and Report dated 12.05.2023 and response

 dated 26.05.2023 to additional affidavit of applicant have been filed by J&K

 PCC. 12. However, having gone through the said Reports, we do not find any

 substantive progress in the matter. (i) Order dated 25.07.2022 in OA No. 286/2022, In re: News item published in The Indian
 Express dated 20th April, 2022, titled "7 Charred to death in fire near Ludhiana dumpsite" (v) Order dated 13.10.2022, OA No. 606/2018 Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste
 Management Rules, 2016 and other environmental issues (in respect of State of Karnataka). 13. The response, given by Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban

Development Department, J&K, only talks of various planning and action

proposed to be taken in future. The relevant extract of Report dated

28.04.2023 reads as under: 4. That the number of measures have been undertaken to ensure
 quality of treated effluent as per the prescribe standards. Online
 Continuous Effluent Monitoring Systems (OCEMS) are being installed
 in all 15 operational STPs of USED and also, NABL accreditation of 03
 labs of UEED has been approved to be taken up during the current
 financial year 2023-24. 5. That proper and effective implementation Solid Waste Management
 Action plan, a dedicated Project Management Unit has already been
 engaged by the Department for establishment of Solid Waste
 Management facility. The PMU is operating from the Directorate and
 have many times visited the sites identified for establishment of SWM
 facilities in Budgam and Chadoora towns. The Waste generation
 details of two towns viz Municipal Council Budgam & Municipal
 Committee Chadoora is given hereunder:- 6. MamathKull:- Mamath Kull passes through the Budgam town and
is the main source of water in the town. Most population living in the
vicinity of the water body has been identified as littering of waste into
the Kull and on its banks, for which the MC Budgam has taken strict
measures to restrain the people from illegal dumping and disposal of
Solid Waste into the Kull and on its banks. A special team has been
constituted vide Order No; MC/BD/5132-33 dated 31-12-2021, to
ensure strict prohibition of dumping of garbage/Solid Waste/ Single
Use Plastic on the banks of the Kull, besides, imposition of fine upon
the violators as per the provisions of SWM Rule, 2016. The constituted
team has been patrolling in the area frequently .Fine has been
imposed on (21) violators and (07) No, of FIRs have also been filed
against the violators to disseminate a strict message among the
public. Ninety (90) Sanitation drives along the embankments of
MammathKull from Mamath to Railway Bridge Ompora have been
conducted by MC Budgam. Besides, special sanitation drives are
being carried out twice in a week to keep the Kull and its surroundings
neat and dean from all kinds of waste. Six (6)No Digital LED Display
Boards have been installed/ erected at different places from New
Adda to Old Adda on which messages are disseminated regularly to
create awareness in general public, regarding importance of water
bodies and their conservation. Hundred percent door to door collection
has been achieved in all the wards of the Town. 7. That Fifty Five (55) IEC activities have been organized in the areas
falling alongside of the water body to sensitize the people about the
pollution of water bodies and its hazards., which have been given
wide publicity through print & electronic media. Twenty Eight (28) No
Sign boards have been installed with warnings/ cautions on the
banks of the water bodies. Community Heads/ Senior citizens/
NGOs/School Children and volunteers have been involved in
awareness programmes among general public. The weekly progress
reports of the activities/ actions taken are being regularly submitted
to the Administrative Department. On the eve of celebrations of World
Environment day MC Budgam in collaboration with Pollution control
board Budgam conducted a special sanitation drive and collected
garbage/solid waste/single use plastic in and around the Mammat
Koul and also, in compliance to the instructions issued by the
Directorate MC Budgam, sanitation /cleanliness drives are frequently
carried out at Marn mat Koul. 8. That Doodh Ganga also known as Chatche Kull passes through the
Chadoora Town and around two (02) Kilometers of stretch of Doodh
Ganga traverse the town. The main source of pollution of Nallah Doodh
Ganga has been observed as waste from residential houses located
near the banks of Nallah, and effluents from restaurants Hotels and 14 Work Shops, dumping of refuse by the local inhabitants, for which the
Municipal Committee Chadoora has swung into action and Five Tones
of the waste scattered on the banks of Nallah Doodh Ganga has been
removed manually and mechanically by the MC Chadoora during
special sanitation drives and has been properly disposed off at
dumping site at Nagam Hayatpora. 9. That thirty (30) No Banners (Big and Small) and 3 No Digital LED
display boards at various locations including banks of Nallah Doodh
Ganga have been installed for awareness of general public, also
announcements are made on public address system regarding
cleanness of Doodh Ganga. Masjid Committees/ Augaf Committees of
town Chadoora were also requested to make general public aware
about the importance of cleanness of water body. Special teams have
been constituted by MC Chadoora vide Order No:- 10. Routine activities:- The Routine activities carried out by the
Municipal Council Budgam and Chadoora for cleanliness of the area
are as under:- 11. That the measures taken by the Municipal Corporation
Srinagar n respect to Solid Waste management of Doodhganga for the
area falling under their jurisdiction are as under:- 12. That the Director Geology and Mining Department has intimated
 that 52 vehicle /machines indulged in illegal mining in and around
 Doodhganga Nallah have been seized and compounding of offence to
 the tune of Rs. 647108/- have been realized from the offenders.
 Furthermore, seven works have been executed in Doodhganga Nallah
 and Mamath Kul out of Rs. 1 crore levied by the Hon'ble National
 Green Tribunal order in O.A No. 241/2021. Besides this land has been
 identified for the construction of a Mineral Check post at Kil kadal near
 Chadoora, a sensitive place with regard to transportation of minerals
 extracted from various spots from Doodhganga Nallah particularly in
 odd hours. Funds for the same have been allocated by the Deputy
 Commissioner Budgam out of the funds levied by the Hon'ble NGT. Report dated 12.05.2023 of J&K PCC: Order dated 24.05.2023: Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Dr. A. Senthil Vel, EM
May 30, 2023
Original Application No. 241/2021
R 25