“Thanks to AI tools that create “synthetic media” or otherwise generate content, a growing percentage of what we’re looking at is not authentic, and it’s getting more difficult to tell the difference…Some of these tools may have beneficial uses, but scammers can also use them to cause widespread harm,” the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) takes on the problem of fake content created by generative AI in its latest blogpost .

After having cautioned businesses about keeping their AI-related claims in check , the FTC has now shed light on how AI can be used to “spread deception” and emphasises on the urgent need for digital companies to address the “deeper and emerging threat” of what it calls the “AI fake” problem.

Focus on AI fakes: From generative AI chatbots to software that create deepfakes and voice clones , the blogpost clearly outlines how AI can be abused by fraudsters to use it for detrimental purposes. The “fake content” created by notorious users using these tools can then be accessed by large groups and may potentially harm specific communities and sections of the population .

“They can use chatbots to generate spear-phishing emails, fake websites, fake posts, fake profiles, and fake consumer reviews, or to help create malware, ransomware, and prompt injection attacks. They can use deepfakes and voice clones to facilitate imposter scams, extortion, and financial fraud. And that’s very much a non-exhaustive list,” the statement adds.

Why it matters:

The FTC blogpost reminds us that it is necessary to look beyond the AI hype and be conscious of the harms AI that AI can cause, especially for businesses. The FTC as well as the Indian government is working to make sure that businesses make accurate claims about their “AI-enabled” products in order to protect consumer interests. Noting the fast-paced developments in the sector, this blogpost also indicates that consumer protection bodies will have to devise methods to better assess the use of AI by companies and provide necessary safeguards to prevent harm.

What must companies consider?

“Merely warning your customers about misuse or telling them to make disclosures is hardly sufficient to deter bad actors… If your tool is intended to help people, also ask yourself whether it really needs to emulate humans or can be just as effective looking, talking, speaking, or acting like a bot,” the FTC states calling for businesses to do better in terms of weighing in risks of an AI product before and after deciding to sell it.

Stating that the FTC Act’s “prohibition of deceptive and unfair conduct” may apply in cases a deceptive product is being sold, the body directs companies to consider the following queries:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event