(1) A neat question of law arises turn consideration in this appeal, viz. where the two parties who have filed a joint petition for divorce by mutual consent under Section 13-B(1) of the Hindu Marriage Act, can the divorce be granted by the matrimonial court on a motion only by one of the spouses under Section 13-B(2) of the Act ? (2) A joint petition for dissolution of the marriage by mutual consent was moved by the petitioner and the respondent on 10-8-1983. On 4-9-1984 the husband alone tiled the petition under Section 13-B(2) of the Act. The wife did not join the proceedings or in other words did not consent for the second motion to be made under the said sub-section. The learned Adj dismissed the petition filed by the husband holding that if one of the parties with held the consent a decree for divorce cannot be granted under the said sub-section. On the facts of the case the learned Judge also opined that there was every likelihood that the wife had joined the petition under Section 13-B(1) without her free consent. The learned Judge has disagreed with the two decisions cited before him. They are: Jayashree Ramesh Loadha v. RameshBhikaji Loadha, (1984) D.M.C. 481 and Meena Duttav.Anirudh Dutta, Ii (1984) D.M.C. 388. These decisions are of the other High Court and there is no decision of this Court on this question. (3) Section 13-B was added for the first time by the amending Act 68 of 1976. In the original text of the Hindu Marriage Act there was no provision for divorce by mutual consent. Section 13-B is, obviously, copied from Section 28 of the Special Marriage Act with some minor changes. The change introduced by Section 13-B is that whereas under Section 28 of the Special Marriage Act a second motion cannot be presented before one year and not later than two years, the Hindu Marriage Act , as amended, reduced the said periods to six months and eighteen months respectively. The Section 13-B may now be noted :- "13-B.Divorce by mutual consent-(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a petition for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce may be presented to the district court by both the parties to a marriage together, whether such marriage was solemnized before or after the commencement of the Marriage Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976 , on the ground that they have been living separately for a period of one year or more, that they have not been able to live together and that they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved. shall on being satisfied, after hearing the parties and after making such inquiry as it thinks fit, that a marriage has been solemnized and that the averments in the petition are true, pass a decree of divorce declaring the marriage to be dissolved with effect from the date of the decree." (4) Section 13-B is subjected to the other provisions of the Act and, therefore, a petition for divorce by mutual consent cannot be presented before one year after the marriage, as provided by Section 14 of the Act. Section 13-B(1) requires that both the parties to a marriage should file a petition, but that petition must be filed together. In other words it must be a joint petition. The words "a petition" make it clear that the parties to the marriage do not file separate petitions, but file one petition signed by both of them. In the joint petition they must state :- This observation was recorded by me because at the first instance the wife alone had appeared in the chamber. She gave an impression that the husband was manipulating joint petitions before the court. But when the original record was called and the applications Along with the affidavits of the wife were seen and when the husband was also heard in the chamber the whole picture looked quite different. The matter was remanded because I wanted a finding from the trial court after due recording of the evidence as to whether the husband had, as a matter of fact, forced the wife to sign the joint. petitions and to file the affidavit in their support. On remand the learned Add!. District Judge had asked the parties to file the affidavits by way of evidence. (26) The learned Addl. District Judge did not record a positive finding as to whether the petitions were made by the wife under force from the husband or not. The Judge held : "Without going into the merits or otherwise of this allegation of petitioner No. 1. the very Sacs. that petitioner No. I has declined to endorse the averments the petitions, in itself shows that she is not agreeable to a divorce by mutual consent. On the strength of the evidence and material brought on record and more particularly the fact that prior to the first joint motion being case No. 442/1983 another petition, was dismissed for want of free consent of petitioner. There is every likelihood of petitioner No. 1 having joined the later two petitions without her free consent. Looking as the matter from any angle whatsoever it does not. seem to he possible or in any case expedient in the interest of justice to allow this petition and to dissolve the marriage of the parties by a decree of divorce." (27) It is unfortunate that after remand the trial court did not record positive findings and decided the matter without going into the merits. The matrimonial petition was filed in 1983. Five years have already elapsed and no useful purpose would now be served by remanding the matter once more to the trial court. I will, therefore, proceed to consider the merits of the matter. (28) The petitions under Section 13-B(i) and 13-B(ii) with which we are now concerned were jointly filed by the parties duly supported by affidavits. The submission of the wife is that they were filed under coercion, undue influence, fraud and threats of the husband. No factual averments or evidence has been produced by the wife in support of the said allegation. Moreover each of these terms has a definite connotation in law and in many cases they are mutually exclusive. Even if one of them is present the consent obtained is vitiated and the law does not regard the consent as a free consent. If the coercion or threat is practiced, there can be no question of any fraud or undue influence and vice versa. The allegations thus lack in material particulars. The wife has alleged that the husband had threatened to kidnap the son and to involve her and her parents in a criminal case. These allegations are also without any supporting material. No person is even named in whose presence the alleged threats were given. As the father, the husband has a preferential right in law to be the guardian and, therefore, it was not necessary for him to kidnap the son. There was no reason for the husband also to involve the wife or her parents in a criminal case. On the contrary the wife could have filed a criminal case against the husband for the detention of the dowry articles, as is being done by the wives in many cases. The respondent- wife has, therefore, failed to provisions that she has signed the said petitions without her tree consent or under coercion, threat, fraud or undue influence. (29) The respondent wife had averred that the first petition under Section 13-B(i) was dismissed because the father of the husband slapped her father in the court It only means that because of the alleged incident she made a statement before the Addl. District and Sessions Judge that her consent was not a free consent. The husband had denied this allegation. But even assuming that the allegation is correct, it was a totally irrelevant ground for her to withdraw her consent and to allege that even the filing of the application at the earliest stage was obtained by force, fraud etc. She or her father had all the remedies open in law to proceed against the father of the husband if he had really slapped in the court, as was alleged. The submission of the wife that she could not state in so many words at the earlier stages that her consent was obtained by coercion, fraud, threat and undue influence because. Advocate Chawla, who was the Advocate for both the parties did not correctly advice her, is dearly an alter thought. It is quite unnatural that a parly who allegedly suffered at the hand? of the Advocate at one time would again agree for the engagement of the same Advocate at a subsequent stage in the proceedings. (30) The next submission of the wife that the husband went to Nari Raksha Samili and secured the undue consent from her for filing both the petitions is un-trustworthy. The evidence of Urmila Thakur, the Secretary of Nari Raksha Samiti completely demolishes the story of the wife. Smt. Kamla Thakur is an independent witness and a responsible Secretary of a social institution devoted to the protection of the women. Her testimony is more reliable. She had stated that the wife had approached the Samiti twice, first at the stage of the petition under Section 13B(i) and again at the stage of the petition under Section 13B(ii) . She had stated that the wife approached the Samiti in the month of May, 1983 and three four meetings were held in the month of June, 1983 so as to explore for the reconciliation between the parties. The statement of the husband that on 6-5-1983 the wife had herself written to him for severance of the matrimonial tie is thus confirmed by the independent evidence of Smt. Thakur. Smt. Thakur had further said that the wife was adamant and wanted only severence of the matrimonial tie and, therefore, by an agreement between the parties the joint petition was filed for the dissolution of marriage by consent. The separation agreement dated 8-8-1983, admitted by the wife, was made at the instance of the Samiti under which it was agreed that the husband should return the dowry articles to the wife, that the custody of the son should be permanently given to the wife and that the parties would be free to marry again after the dissolution and lead their independent life. The separation agreement was filed Along with joint petition in the court. Pursuant to the said agreement the wife received the dowry articles and also the custody of the son. Having accepted the said two benefits under the agreement, she cannot now turn back and say that she had not given her consent for the dissolution of marriage. She is estopped from doing so in law. If the first petition fails the separation agreement also would not have any legal sanctity. The wife would have to prove her claim to the dowry articles and the custody of the son in the proper court over again. It is clear to me that after securing these benefits from the husband who in the spirit of compromise agreed to the said terms because of the wife's promise of dissolution of marriage, with the hope of starting a new life. The plea of wife that the husband was demanding additional dowry is also falsified by the evidence of Mrs. Thakur who has stated that no such complaint was made by the wife during the course of negotiations in the Samiti. The evidence leaves a clear impression that the wife is taking advantage of her own wrong. She had secured the benefits of the return of articles/goods aad had secured the permanent custody of the son through the joint agreement with the husband and wants to hide behind a false and indiscriminate plea of coercion, threat, fraud and undue influence. I have no hesitation in holding that the wife at her own free will had signed both the petitions and had given voluntary consent for the dissolution of marriage under Section 13-B of the Act. I, therefore, pass a decree of the dissolution of marriage under Section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act and declare that the marriage between the appellant and the respondent stands dissolved under the said section. So far as the payment of Rs. 11,000.00 agreed to be paid by the husband to the wife is concerned, there is no clear evidence of the actual payment received by the wife. It may be that the post dated cheque was issued by the husband at the initial stage but he had stopped the payment subsequently. If this is so, the appellant husband shall make a payment of Rs. 11,000.00 to the wife within three months from today in full and final settlement of all the claims of the wife including the one for permanent alimony, as agreed between the parties by agreement dated 8-8-1983. (31) The appeal is allowed but on the facts and circumstances of the case there shall be no order as to costs.