The applications filed on behalf of the
 defendant Nos.3 to 24 U/Or. I Rule 10 CPC , as
 I.A.Nos. I to XVIII are hereby rejected." (Emphasis added)

The concerned Court in the afore-quoted order fails to observe the

specific role of each defendant in the plaint and without sufficient

reasons rejects the applications under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC . I

therefore, deem it appropriate to notice the individual role of each

petitioner as averred in the plaint. 12.1. Role of petitioner No.1 Company/defendant No.3: 13. The concerned Court while rejecting the applications does

not advert to the role of petitioner Nos. 2 to 17 to keep them in the

array of defendants or delete them. In the light of their role being

restricted as noticed hereinabove; no cause of action being made

out against them; they not being signatories to any of the

agreements and merely being Directors of the Company, they 70 cannot be permitted to undergo the rigmarole of judicial

proceedings. As against petitioner No.1 Company, there are specific

allegations in the plaint against the said company and is required

for effectively adjudicating the matter and providing necessary

relief's as claimed by the plaintiff. 14. In the light of absence of pleadings with regard to the

specific role of petitioner Nos. 2 to 17, the order of the concerned

Court which rejects the applications not withstanding their roles as

narrated above, cannot be sustained. A case of tortious inducement

of breach of contract having been made out against petitioner No.1

Company, the Petitioner No.1 Company does not deserve to be

deleted from the array of parties. In that light, the applications

under Order 1 to 10 of the CPC , filed by petitioner Nos.2 to 17,

ought to be allowed. 17. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Petitioners Nos. 2 to 17 who are defendant Nos. 4, 5
 and 10 to 24 before the concerned Court stand deleted
 from the array of parties/defendants. (iii) Any observation made in the course of the order is only
 for the purpose of consideration of the impugned order
 qua the applications under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC .
 The observations in no way influence pending
 proceedings before the concerned Court qua the
 remaining parties. Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2025 also stand disposed. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE
bkp
CT:SS