The US White House has urged multiple entities, including those from the private sector, to make voluntary commitments to tackle the spread of non-consensual AI-generated and real sexual images. In a blog post , the White House stated that it aims to encourage companies and other organizations to develop tools to disincentivize and thwart websites and mobile apps whose primary business is to “create, facilitate, monetize, or disseminate image-based sexual abuse.”

They pointed to the rising rates of AI-generated image-based sexual abuse, emphasizing how bad actors disproportionately target women, girls, and LGBTQI+ people. Survivors of these instances of abuse often have their lives upended, they noted. Victims often have their education and careers disrupted which leads to depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and increased risk of suicide.

Thus, the administration intends to build on the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse, the President’s AI Executive Order , and voluntary commitments made by leading AI companies to manage the risks of AI and create a framework that entities can choose to abide by to protect victims and mitigate the spread of AI-generated sexual abuse material.

The Administration thus collaborated with civil society leaders, advocates, and survivors to create recommendations that private sector entities can follow to curb the spread of image-based sexual abuse.

The following are the entities they have urged to adopt these commitments

Payment platforms and financial institutions : The administration called for “disrupting the monetization of image-based sexual abuse”. By curbing access to payment services for sites or mobile apps whose primary business is dedicated to image-based sexual abuse, especially of minors,  payment platforms can discourage the large-scale spread of these images.

Cloud service providers : Cloud services could prevent the spread of non-consensual content by limiting web services that allow the creation of these images.

Mobile App Stores: By instituting requirements for app developers to prevent the creation of non-consensual images, app stores can stop these images at the source

Mobile app and mobile operating system developers: Mobile OSs can protect potential victims by increasing content security on digital devices and preventing image sharing without consent.

Online platforms: The administration recommended that platforms make the process of removing non-consensual images from their platforms easy and secure

While these voluntary commitments may help address the harm caused by Image-based sexual abuse, the Office of Science and Technology Policy and the Gender Policy Council have called for additional suggestions from stakeholders to end image-based sexual abuse. They have also encouraged further commitments from other entities.

Finally, the Administration has called to strengthen legislation to help tackle the spread of non-consensual images and protect survivors.

They have asked Congress to strengthen legal protections and provide critical resources for survivors and victims of image-based sexual abuse, including AI-generated images, by building on the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization in 2022.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event