2. Heard learned counsel for the Petitioner and learned counsel
 for the State. Perused the F.I.R., case diary, the statement of the
 witnesses and other relevant documents on record. 3. This is an application under Section 439 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code. 4. The Petitioner is an accused in G.R. No.351 of 2021 arising
 out of Jatni P.S. No.336 of 2021 pending in the court of learned
 J.M.F.C., Jatni for commission of offence punishable under Sections
 384 / 354-A / 294 / 605 / 354-C / 507 / 509 / 34 , I.P.C. read with Sections 66- E/67/67 A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . 5. The prosecution story shorn of all details is that on dated
 14.07.2021 at about 6.20 P.M. the informant appeared before the
 Police Station and reported that she had love affairs with the present
 petitioner and his another friend, namely, Suraj, Bibek and Rocky
 // 2 //

were shoot her necked nude photographs and videos. Thereafter,
they started blackmailing to the informant by saying unless she keeps
physical relationship with them, they would made viral of those
photographs and videos through social media. They were also
demand rupees two lakhs and also threatening to kill her and put acid
on her face. The petitioner had also sent the nude photos to her
Aunty mobile phone and threatened to make it viral if she failed to
give case of rupees two lakhs within seven days. 6. Learned counsel for the Petitioner submits that the Petitioner
is in custody since 31.07.2021 and in the meantime, investigation has
been concluded and charge-sheet has already been submitted by the
I.O. He further submits that the victim is a major one. He further
submits that the there was love relation with the petitioner and the
victim and the other friends of the petitioner has taken the alleged
photographs of the victim and demanded money, which is not known
by the petitioner. 7. Learned counsel for the Petitioner further submits that as per
allegations made in the F.I.R. is false and frivolous and the omnibus
allegations made in the F.I.R. Further, learned counsel for the
Petitioner submits that there is no scope for absconding or fleeing
away from the hands of the justice, as the Petitioner is a permanent
resident of the locality. 8. Mr. Nayak, learned Additional Standing Counsel for the State,
vehemently, opposes the prayer for bail of the Petitioner on the
ground that the alleged crime is heinous in nature. Therefore, he
prays for rejection of the bail application of the Petitioner. He also
submits that in the event the Petitioner released on bail, he might
threaten / influence the prosecution witnesses particularly the victim.
Further, he submits that in the event this Court is inclined to release
 // 3 //

 the Petitioner on bail, some stringent terms and conditions may be
 imposed. 9. Having heard the learned counsels for the parties, considering
 the nature of allegation and the period of custodial detention of the
 Petitioner, it is directed that let the Petitioner be released on bail on
 furnishing a bail bond of Rs.50,000/- (rupees fifty thousand) with
 two local solvent sureties each for the like amount to the satisfaction
 of the learned court in seisin over the matter subject to conditions
 that :- 10. It is open for the court in seisin over the matter to impose
 other conditions may deem just and proper. 11. The Bail Application is accordingly disposed of. 12. Urgent certified copy of this order be granted on proper
 application. ( A.K. Mohapatra )
 Judge
Jagabandhu