dentist, she also had joined the petitioner's son in his said Clinic
 at 100, Harish Mukherjee Road (the said property is/was always
 owned by the petitioner). It is stated here that after marriage the
 petitioner's son was residing with his wife in Kolkata and also
 in Mindapore wherein a Kolkata they used to reside in a building
 at 46A, Harish Chatterjee Street (first and second floor whereof
 are fully owned by the petitioner) which is/was having an
 accommodation of two self contained flats wherein in the first
 floor the petitioner was residing with his wife, where they still
 reside and in the second floor of the said building, his son was
 living with the respondent no. 4 and in Midnapore, his son and
 respondent 4 used to reside at petitioner's ancestral property
 and they also practiced there as dentists. " It was thus submitted by Mr. Saha that incidents of legal

consequences of a decree would fundamentally differ from those of an order

granting ex parte decree of divorce, which was challenged upon filing an

application under Order 9 Rule 13 C.P.C. In the referred decision of Division Bench, the ratio of the decision

decided in the case of Ram Ch. Sinha (Supra) was also noticed, and the

Division Bench concurred the same view with regard to the non-applicability

of the provisions, contained in Order 41 Rule 3A of C.P.C. in case of an order

by virtue of Order 43 Rule 2 C.P.C. In furtherance of alleged perpetration of fraud committed upon the

opposite party, so as to obtain an order of ex parte decree of divorce, Mr.

Saha strenuously argued that there had been serious tampering caused in

the cause list, and manipulation of court's records with regard to fixation of

the date of ex parte hearing, which could only be established by allowing the

opposite party to produce the relevant documents, upon granting stay to the

decree of divorce, already granted by the Trial Court. Incidental to the points referred hereinabove, Mr. Saha submitted that

the court below granted ex parte decree without deciding the ingredients of

cruelty, which is contrary to the proposition of law, and the

petitioner/husband even after obtaining the ex parte decree never caused the 13 ex parte decree to be served upon the opposite party/wife to establish his

bona fide. Since, application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act was filed, as

an abundant precaution, the rules of procedure, meant to sub-serve the

cause of justice, Mr. Saha submitted, that it could not be understood to

mean to frustrate the same. The technicalities, as referred by Mr. Chatterjee,

regarding non-condonation of delay in connection with an application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, Mr Saha submitted that same would not be

at all available, when ex parte decree of divorce had been obtained by the

alleged perpetration of fraud, and thus technical grounds to challenge the

propriety of the impugned order of divorce could not be allowed to be

sustained. The decree of divorce was passed on 5th December, 2020, and the

application for setting aside thereof was filed within such period of time,

when the order of the Apex Court granting extension of period of limitation

was very much in vogue, Mr. Saha argued. Regarding purported non-service of summons of Matrimonial Suit, Mr.

Saha attempted to derive benefit from an affidavit, called for from the

Postman, who allegedly delivered the writ petition, what was filed in the writ

petition referred hereinabove. According the Mr. Saha, a mere claim of refusal to receive service

would not itself be sufficient and justified, without causing production of the

relevant documents of alleged service of summons upon the opposite

party/wife. As to the applicability of decision reported in (2015) 2 CHN 50

delivered in the case of Jharna Rani Ghosh (Supra), stressed to be squarely

applied over here by petitioner, Mr. Saha countered such submission of Mr.

Chatterjee submitting that the aforesaid decision would be without any

relevance in the given set of facts, as in the said decision , the validity of

second marriage was the only factor for consideration. Supporting the order of the court below, Mr. Saha finally submitted

that when there had been no error of jurisdiction committed by the court

below in granting stay of operation of an ex parte decree of divorce, the same

should go un-disturbed, bearing in mind the subsequent events, that had

taken place with the intervention of Division Bench of this Court, as well as

by the Apex Court during the previous round of litigations between the

parties. The only point requiring address by this Court is whether the order

impugned, granting stay of operation of decree of divorce, granted ex parte, is

sustainable or not. The ex parte decreee of divorce was granted on 5th December, 2020,

after the Matrimonial Suit was set on motion on 15th September, 2020. The opposite party/wife filed application under Order 9 Rule 13

C.P.C . on 14th December, 2021, under Order 9 Rule 13 C.P.C . to assail the

decree of divorce granted against her. An application for condonation of

delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act was also filed. The court below by

the order impugned, dated 22.12.2021, stayed operation of the decree of

divorce, granted ex parte. In the meantime, petitioner has already suffered interim stay for more

than a year. Argument was raised by the petitioner that whenever an application

under Section 5 of the Limitation Act praying for condonation of delay had

been filed, the court below was obliged to hear out the same first before

granting any order of stay. Such argument was countered by the other side

saying that the argument raised by the petitioner pertaining to non-

consideration of Section 5 application for condonation of delay, prior to

granting interim stay, is not an inflexible rule, and the court below in an

appropriate case, depending upon the exigency of the circumstances, would

always have the authority to grant, stay without making condonation of

delay. In the case of Ram Ch. Sinha (Supra), as referred by the opposite

party, the execution proceeding was stayed upon condoning the delay,

holding that the prohibition contained in Order 41 Rule 3A C.P.C . would not

be construed to be a complete prohibition in case of an order appealed

against Order 41 Rule 2 C.P.C . What is important is that stay of execution

proceeding was granted in the case of Ram Ch. Sinha (Supra) upon

condoning the delay. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Sri Rani Satiji

Mandir & Ors. (Supra) concurred the same view, as decided in the case of

Ram Ch. Sinha (Supra) that the provisions of Order 41 Rule 3A C.P.C .

would not be applicable against an order appealed against. Though Section 5 application under the Limitation Act was submitted

to have been filed, as an abundant precaution, but whenever such 16 application for condonation of delay was filed, the court below is obliged to

take in view the maintainability of any application proposing interim stay,

coupled with Section 5 application under Limitation Act . Such a view was stressed upon by the Apex Court in the case Director

General of Police, Central Reserve Police Force, New Delhi (Supra),

wherein it was held that without deciding the maintainability of review

petition, there could not be any interim order granted, while in the case of State of West Bengal & Ors. (Supra), grant of interim stay in the writ

appeal, prior to an appeal being entertained, was held to be impermissible. Though, Mr. Chatterjee tried to apply the ratio of such decisions in the given

set of facts borrowing the principles therefrom, neither in the case of

Director General of Police, Central Reserve Police Force, New Delhi

(Supra), nor in the case of West Bengal & Ors. (Supra), the decision of the

Division Bench rendered in the case of Sri Rani Satiji Mandir (Supra),

wherein the decision of Single Bench of this Court rendered in the case of

Ram Ch. Sinha (Supra) was noticed, remained unconsidered. The legality of second marriage of the petitioner already entered into,

in application of the provisions of Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, was

sought to be decided in this case, wherein the stay of operation of the

impugned order, granting ex parte decree of divorce was fundamentally and

principally challenged upon referring several decisions cited by the

petitioner, as already mentioned hereinabove. The short question raised in the case of Krishnaveni Rai (Supra) as

referred by petitioner, was whether a second marriage performed during the 17 pendency of an appeal from a decree of divorce, a nullity, even though there

was no stay of operation of the decree. In the event of legality or validity of alleged second marriage of the

petitioner being decided in this case, the pending application under Order 9

Rule 13 C.P.C ., wherein serious allegation of having committed fraud, said to

have been practiced upon the opposite party in obtaining ex parte decree of

divorce coupled with an alleged exercise undertaken for causing tampering

and/or manipulation of cause-list and court records of the court below,

would be rendered infructuous. The subsequent events held, following grant of ex parte decree, as

disclosed in the writ petition, and in writ appeal, are thus incidentally to be

looked into to unearth the truth pertaining to the alleged perpetration of

fraud committed upon the opposite party behind obtaining ex parte decree,

circumstanced by the alleged suppression of address of opposite party/wife

at 46A, Harish Chatterjee Street. This Court would, thus, refrain from giving any decision pertaining to

the legality and validity of the second marriage, what is left open for decision

simultaneous with the decision, to be returned by the court below under

Order 9 Rule 13 C.P.C. Though, giving precedence to the technicalities is always discouraged,

but it does not mean that the ordinary practice following immediately after

filing Section 5 application should not be respected to, which is, however,

dependent upon the exigency of the circumstances, and the same cannot be

straight-jacketed by an exhaustive formula. Mere denial of service of summons of Matrimonial Suit would not be

itself sufficient, unless proved by sufficient material evidence, both oral and

documentary, which the opposite party is under obligation to prove in

accordance with the law in the pending application under Order 9 Rule13

C.P.C. Alternatively, the refusal of service, vis-à-vis denial of service may be

best resolved upon collecting evidence, to be adduced by the parties to this

case, if the parties to the case, so desire at the appropriate point of time. This Court, however, perceives that returning a decision at this

juncture, as to the legality and validity of second marriage in aid of Section

15 of Hindu Marriage act, would cause the allegation of committing fraud, in

context with the subsequent events, as narrated by the opposite party, to be

nipped in the bud. When the petitioner has already suffered interim order for more than a

year, this Court is of the view that the pending Judicial Misc. Case No. 159

of 2021 be expedited without disturbing the interim order, already granted

by the court below. Maintainability of Misc. Case under Order 9 Rule 13 is

thus left to be decided by court below at the time of final hearing of Misc.

Case. Petitioner is given liberty to agitate the same before the court below in

accordance with the law. The revisional application, stands disposed of, for the reasons

mentioned hereinabove, directing the court below to hear out the referred

Judicial Misc. Case No. 159 of 2021, pending before the learned Additional

District Judge, R. D. Court at Paschim Medinipore, and decide the same

expeditiously as possible, subject to suitability and convenience of the court 19 below, providing sufficient opportunity of hearing to either of the parties to

this case, but without granting any unnecessary adjournment, unless it is

extremely unavoidable, preferably before the commencement of Puja

Vacation of court below. Parties to make communication of this order to the

learned court below. This order is passed without prejudice to the rights and contention of

the parties, and without deciding the merits pertaining to the legality and

validity of the second marriage, said to be entered into by the petitioner in

the meantime. Parties are directed to make communication of this order to the

learned court below. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to

the parties, upon compliance of all formalities, on priority basis. (Subhasis Dasgupta, J.)