SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: need help with part time earning from wfh.
DATE: 2022-06-26
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/vl16ph/need_help_with_part_time_earning_from_wfh/

--- POST TEXT ---

There is a tldr for those not interested in reading all of this. 

I (M27) completed my college at 2017 with bcom. My marks weren't great after my first year,(70)with financial issues forcing me to teach kids(11-12 commerce) to pay for college.

I was interested in programming so started learning c, c++ and c#. Midway through the course my mom fainted in kitchen due to high blood pressure and I ended up missing out on 2 months of the course as I was scared of leaving mom at home. At this time I was earning decent money from tuitions so I didn't really care and as my earning kept increasing every year reaching peak at 2019(28k).

I assumed it will keep increasing and eventually I could start some business and was saving money for that and covid happened. My earning went to 0 straight away as most parent were happy with the minimum studies the schools were providing and with easy papers given and full cheating no kids wanted tuition. I decided to look for jobs and got one in Kolkata for office clerk. I left and within 4 days my mom's health deteriorated, she didn't say anything but on the morning she wasn't picking up phone. The landlord had to break open the door and hospitalize her. I came back immediately with a flight and found out her sugar fell to below 30s. I went back to Kolkata but the office closed after 9 months (I only properly worked there for 1 month maybe with all the lockdown). I came back to my town(Siliguri) and looking for a job here is a nightmare, with most jobs just offering 6-7k for full time, some scams of data entry and byjus jobs who obsorbed all my students. I have accepted that I cannot leave mom, it's the least I can do with her not giving up on me when when my joke of a father ran away with some office slut.

I am still doing tuitions but the students I had, the name I had build are all kinda gone and it will take time to have the same earning pre covid. I am currently looking for good earning work from home jobs, I don't have much savings left but am willing to learn new things to make a living of it. I need some recommendations.

Tl:dr : Lost 80% of my earning due to covid and need to recommendations on what to learn to earn money working from home.