1. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
 restraining the defendants from infringement of copyright, infringement
 of trademarks; passing off; dilution; rendition of accounts; damages;
 etc. The plaintiff has additionally prayed for a declaration that its
 marks are well-known under Section 2 (zg) of the Trade Marks Act. 2. Prior to going into the averments made in the plaint, it would be
 necessary to give the details of the proceedings. The present suit was
 filed in the year 2013 and when it first came up before this court on
 18.09.2013, this court adjourned the matter the enable the plaintiff to
 satisfy the court with regard to the jurisdiction of this court. Thereafter
 on 04.10.2013, after a detailed hearing this court returned the plaint for
 the want of territorial jurisdiction. The plaintiff herein preferred an
 appeal before a division bench of this court, being FAO (OS) 506/2013. The division bench, vide judgment dated 15.10.2014, allowed the
 appeal holding that this court had the jurisdiction to try the suit.
 Summons in the suit were issued on 28.10.2014. The defendants were
 allowed to be served by publication on 23.12.2015. On 15.02.2016,
 considering that the defendants had been duly served by publication yet
 there was no appearance, this court passed an order of interim
 injunction. The plaintiff has also filed ex parte evidence of Mr. D.C.
 Sharma, constituted attorney of the plaintiff, who has deposed on the
 lines of the plaint. 3. As per the plaint, the plaintiff, which commenced its business in 1952, is
 an international integrated media and entertainment company principally
 engaged in the development, production and marketing of television
 programming, pay-per-view programming, live events and the licensing
 and sale of branded consumer products featuring its „WWE‟ brand. Since
 as early as February, 1983, the plaintiff has been providing to the public
 live and televised wrestling and entertainment events on a regular basis in
 many major cities throughout the world including India. 4. The plaintiff was previously known as World Wide Wrestling Federation
 (WWWF) and later as World Wrestling Federation (WWF). In 1982, it
 was sold to the Titan Sports company, which later changed its name to
 World Wrestling Federation Entertainment (WWFE), before finally
 becoming World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in May 2002. 5. According to the plaintiff, since 1985 the plaintiff has an annual wrestling
 and entertainment event, broadcast live on pay-per-view worldwide called
 „WRESTLEMANIA‟ which culminates the year‟s events and is the
 occasion for determining and crowning the champion WWE wrestler for
 that year. „Wrestlemania‟is the biggest wrestling event of the year
 attracting millions of viewers from all over the world. The plaintiff made
 history as „Wrestlemania 29‟, televised live on pay-per-view 07.04.2013 CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 2 of 27 worldwide, became the highest grossing event in WWE history. The event
 generated over 1 million pay-per-view buys in more than 105 countries
 and 20 languages, with global gross sales in excess of US $72 million.
 With 80,676 in attendance, fans from all 50 states and 34 countries
 attended the sold out event at the MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,
 New Jersey, USA. Besides Wrestlemania, the plaintiff is broadcasting
 twelve (12) other live events in 2013, televised via pay-per-view.
 Excluding Wrestlemania, such events include „Summerslam‟, „Royal
 Rumble‟, „Extreme Rules‟, „Money In The Bank‟ etc. Since 2000, WWE
 pay-per-views have generated an average of approximately US $100
 million in revenue and over five million buys annually. 6. As per the plaint, consumers of the plaintiff‟s services and products are its
 ardent fans. For its clientele, the plaintiff offers a variety of memorabilia
 including, but not limited to apparels (including t-shirts, sweatshirts,
 masks, hats, caps, jerseys, and belts); posters; calendars; fact books;
 sunglasses; water bottles; key rings; action figures; DVDs; video tapes;
 etc. The plaintiff claims that it has more than 200 licensees distributing
 products in 86 countries, including India. In 2012, the plaintiff‟s
 consumer products had global netrevenues of US $88Million. It also has
 a large digital presence. Its official homepage, i.e. wwe.com, averaged
 12.4 million monthly unique visitors in 2012. More than 100 million
 videos are watched per month on wwe.com, YouTube.com/wwe and
 hulu.com/wwe, combined. 7. The plaintiff (WWE) has more than 5 million „friends‟ on Facebook, more
 than ESPN, Pepsi, MLB, Gatorade, NASCAR and the NFL. WWE has its
 official online e-commerce store at wweshop.com which processed over
 307,000 orders in 2012, leading to net revenues of US $15million. The
 plaintiff also operates other websites, such as www.wwe.sify.com. These
 websites are freely accessible to one and all and have served in making CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 3 of 27 customers worldwide aware of the plaintiff and its goods and services. 8. The plaintiff also publishes books with Simon & Schuster Inc. The
 plaintiff‟s first biographies, "Hollywood Hulk Hogan" and "It‟s Good to
 be King...Sometimes" by Jerry Lawler, became New York Times Best
 Sellers. Plaintiff‟s other books include inter alia "The Stone Cold Truth" 9. The plaintiff submits that all its wrestling events feature professional
 wrestlers having distinctive appearances and carrying fictitious and
 unique names which are evocative of the image sought to be projected by
 the characters. The combination of both name and image, has the effect
 of making an indelible impression in the mind of the viewer. Thus, for
 instance, there are wrestlers with names such as „John Cena‟,
 „Undertaker‟, „Triple H (HHH)‟, „Batista‟, „Randy Orton‟, „The Rock‟,
 „CM Punk‟, „Shawn Michaels‟, „The Great Khali‟, „Rey Mysterio‟,
 „Edge‟, etc. As a further example of the "images" of these characters, the
 character named „Undertaker‟ typically appears in wrestling exhibitions
 and in printed matter as an intimidating figure in black with darkened
 eyes. The plaintiff claims intellectual property rights of the plaintiff in its
 characters like „The Great Khali‟, „Undertaker‟, etc., which are well
 recognized by the public. THE TRADEMARK RIGHTS OF THE PLAINTIFF: 10. As per the plaint, the plaintiff has obtained registrations of its CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 4 of 27 marks„World Wrestling Entertainment‟ and „ ‟(hereinafter „WWE
 Scratch Logo‟ or „New Scratch Logo‟) in relation to various goods in
 different countries worldwide, including in India. Additionally, some of
 the fictitious names of the wrestlers have been registered as trademarks by
 the plaintiff in relation to various goods in different classes in the USA
 and India. Registrations of the plaintiff are as under: 11. The plaintiff has also registered its talent and their slogans. Details of
 which are as under: 12. As per the plaint, the sporting events organized by the plaintiff are
 broadcasted on television networks across the world and their viewership
 rating constitutes a record of sorts. Each year, more than 7,500 hours of
 television programming can be seen in more than 145 countries and 30
 languages around the world. WWE programming can be seen in half a
 billion television households worldwide. Versions of the plaintiff‟s
 „RAW‟, „Smackdown‟, „WWE Superstars‟, and „WWE NXT‟ CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 6 of 27 programmes are shown in United States domestic and international
 markets. 13. In India, plaintiff‟s „RAW‟, „Smackdown‟, „WWE Superstars‟ and „WWE
 NXT‟ programmes are televised on Ten Sports. With millions of men,
 women and children patronizing hundreds of arenas around the world
 each year, and watching numerous televised and pay-per-view
 programming year-round, the plaintiff submits that„WWE‟ is among the
 most popular brands in the world.Therefore, the plaintiff asserts statutory
 and common law rights in the WWE trademarks. COPYRIGHT OF THE PLAINTIFF 14. The plaintiff also claims to be the copyright owner of the pictorial
 representations of the „WORLD WRESTLING ENTERTAINMENT‟ and
 „WWE wrestlers‟ and the „WWE Scratch Logo‟ as they appear on the
 various publicity material/promotional merchandise of the plaintiff. Apart
 from this the plaintiff is also the proprietor of the events that are relayed
 through various satellite channels throughout the world in various
 languages and the same are sold in VCD/ DVD formats through
 authorized publishers. The plaintiff submits that India and USA being
 signatories to the Universal Copyright Convention as well as to the Berne
 Convention, protection is afforded to the plaintiff‟s works since they are
 created by authors of member countries, originate from and are first
 published in the said member countries. This is by virtue of the Copyright
 Act, 1957 read along with the International Copyright Order, 1958. 15. As per the plaint, the plaintiff acquires ownership of the copyright to the
 photographs of these talents/characters by virtue of express declaration of
 assignment given by the talents/characters and photographers in writing at
 the time of undertaking a project. The declaration of the Talent, which is
 in a standard format, states: 16. Relying upon the aforegoing, the counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
 talent/character assigns entire rights to the plaintiff to the use of the
 photographs. The plaintiff, as a purchaser for valuable consideration, has
 all such rights as are vested by the copyright law in the owner of such
 photographs which are original artistic works. Further, being registered
 with the Copyright Office in the United States of America the overall
 format, structure, photographs, sequence, layout, etc. of the plaintiff‟s
 magazines are also protected copyright works. These copyrights of the
 plaintiff extend to India by virtue of the International Copyright Order,
 1991 read along with Berne Convention and the Universal Copyright
 Convention. The plaintiff further submits that the present suit concerns
 infringement of copyright by the defendants in the photographs carried in
 the plaintiff‟s talents/characters from time to time. 17. The plaintiff submits that it licenses the images and character of its talent
 to third parties under strict conditions to ensure proper quality. The
 plaintiff claims exclusive right to license to others to manufacture or deal
 in or to reproduce the characters; the public is also aware of such
 merchandising. The plaintiff‟s merchandising program at present includes
 a product line of sales of goods falling under nearly 25 different
 categories; including various types of apparels, action figures and toys,
 video games, trading cards, sticker albums, music CDs, and shows
 featured in VCD‟s and DVD‟s. 18. In the Indian market, plaintiff licenses among other things, T-shirts, sweat CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 8 of 27 shirts, caps, vests and other licensed products like CDs, VCDs and DVDs
 reproducing the well known trademarks World Wrestling Entertainment,
 WWE, the WWE Scratch Logo, and the WWE characters of the plaintiff
 on the said products. PRESENCE OF THE PLAINTIFF IN INDIA 19. The plaintiff submits that the above mentioned rights of the plaintiff
 extend to India among other countries and are valuable for the Plaintiff in
 as much as substantial revenues are earned by the plaintiff by virtue of its
 business in India. Several Indian wrestlers like „The Great Khali‟ and
 „Jinder Mahal‟ are a part of the plaintiff‟s business and have gained
 immense popularity with audiences worldwide, including India. The
 plaintiff has also recently opened an office in India at Mumbai. The
 plaintiff‟s licensees in India market licensed products of the plaintiff,
 reproducing its trademarks and characters on the said products; more
 particularly mentioned in paragraph 18 aforegoing. 20. On Indian television, Ten Sports broadcasts WWE shows on a regular
 basis. Public awareness of the Plaintiff, its trademarks and its activities
 which receive unprecedented media coverage and publicity. The plaintiff
 submits that thus, the activities of the Plaintiff under the trademark/trading
 style „World Wrestling Entertainment‟, „WWE‟ and the trademarks
 „WWE logo‟ are very well-known in India and the different WWE
 characters, each with his unique and highly distinctive name and image,
 are also exclusively associated with the plaintiff. 21. I have heard the learned counsel for the plaintiff and examined the
 plaint, affidavit of PW-1 and the documents placed on record. I deem it
 appropriate to deal with the prayers of the plaintiff under different
 heads. WELL-KNOWN MARK 22. The plaintiff in paragraph 34 (vi) of the plaint has sought a declaration
 that its marks: „WWE‟; „World Wrestling Entertainment‟; and the New
 Scratch Logo are well-known marks in India in terms of Section 2 (zg) and 11 (6) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. 23. The law in respect of declaration of a mark to be well-known in India is
 no longer res integra. A coordinate bench of this court had in the case
 of Tata Sons Ltd. v. Manoj Dodia & Ors. , 2011 (46) PTC 244 (Del.)
 had summed up the tests to be applied by court as to whether a mark is
 well-known or not. The relevant paragraphs read as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 24. Further, in the case of Rolex SA v. Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. ,
 2014(60)PTC131(Del), it was held that: (Emphasis Supplied) 25. In order to support his case that its marks are well-known, the counsel
 for the plaintiff has argued the following grounds: b. The marks of the plaintiff have been used for extended period: the
 marks have been used atleast since 2002, when the plaintiff
 changed its name from World Wrestling Federation (WWF) to
 World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE); further, the
 talents/characters‟ marks have been used even by the plaintiff‟s
 predecessor‟s in interest prior to 2002. c. Plaintiff has a substantial market in India: the plaintiff licensees
 market, inter alia, T-shirts, sweat shirts, caps, vests and other
 products such as CD‟s VCD‟s and DVD‟s in India. d. The plaintiff‟s marks enjoy a broad-based public awareness and an
 unprecedented media coverage. e. The plaintiff‟s goods and merchandise reproducing its marks are
 available for sale through its interactive online e-commerce store at
 wweshop.com; orders from the said website can, and have been,
 placed throughout India and abroad. f. The plaintiff enjoys numerous trademark registrations in India and
 abroad. g. The volume of the business and sales under the marks: the plaintiff CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 12 of 27 has garnered tremendous business for its goods sold under its
 marks; the plaintiff‟s online e-commerce store processed over
 307,000 orders in 2012 alone, leading to net revenues of US$15
 Million. Further, one of the Plaintiff‟s pay-per-view televised
 events, „Wrestlemania 31‟ held in 2015, generated over 1.3 million
 pay-per-view and WWE Network Over-the-Top (OTT) buys in
 over 100 countries. Since 2000, the plaintiff‟s pay-per-view events
 have generated an annual average of approximately US $100
 million in revenue. h. The plaintiff has successfully enforced its rights and obtained a
 recognition of its rights in the said marks by this court;
 i. The plaintiff has a vast number of actual and potential persons
 consuming its goods and merchandise. 26. In view of the aforegoing and applying the test laid down, I find the
 marks of the plaintiff to be well-known in India. I do so as all the tests laid down in Tata Sons Ltd. (Supra) stand satisfied. The marks of the
 plaintiff has been extensively used in India and has garnered wide
 recognition;user since 2002, after the plaintiff was changed to its
 present form;use in respect of varied products, enumerated paragraph
 17 aforegoing;extensive promotion in India; wide and numerous
 registrations; the volume of sales of the plaintiff‟s merchandise as well
 as the viewership of its events; regular enforcement of the rights; and
 the consumer base of the plaintiff. 27. Accordingly, I am of the view that the marks „WWE‟; „World

 Wrestling Entertainment‟; and its new scratch logo, i.e. „ ‟ are
 well-known marks in India. DEFENDANT'S ACTIVITIES 28. It is the case of the plaintiff that in the month of July, 2013, the plaintiff
 learnt that the defendants are engaged in selling and offering for sale
 counterfeit products includingT-shirts, caps and wrist bands bearing the
 images of its talents. In the goods of the defendants, the characters
 „Randy Orton‟, „CM Punk‟ and „John Cena‟were displayed. The goods
 further displayed the plaintiff‟s registered trade mark „New Scratch logo‟.
 In addition, the defendants were also offering for sale T-shirts and caps
 bearing the plaintiff‟s device mark „U CANT SEE ME‟. 29. Thereafter, in order to determine the extent of the infringing activities of
 the defendants. On 13.07.2013, a private investigation was carried out.
 As per the plaintiff, during the investigation the following infringements
 were established: 30. The plaintiff submits that common to all of the counterfeit goods is the
 fact that none of them bear the "Authentic Wear" tag on them nor do they
 carry the proper trade mark registration „®‟ symbol. The infringing
 activities have also been corroborated by the report of the local
 commissioner dated 10.12.2014 which affirms the activities of the
 defendant. INFRINGEMENT OF TRADE MARK AND COPYRIGHT 31. The plaintiff claims that the marks under its registered marks „WWE‟; „New WWE scratch logo‟; the words marks „Undertaker‟, „John Cena‟,
 „Batista‟, Randy Orton‟ and „Triple H‟. 32. Section 29 (2) of the Trade Marks Act stipulates the conditions when
 usage by a person amounts to infringement of a registered trademark. Section 29 (2) and (3) read as follows: (Emphasis Supplied) 33. Since the marks being used are identical and the the goods being
 applied to are also identical, it stands proved that the activities of the
 defendant no. 3 are infringing the registered mark of the plaintiff under Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act. The presumption contained in sub-
 section (3) of Section 29 also comes to the aid of the plaintiff in the
 present matter. 34. Additionally, the counsel for the plaintiff sumits that the illegal
 representation of the WWE characters and „WWE Scratch Logo‟ by the
 Defendant on the impugned counterfeit products has led to intentional CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 18 of 27 infringement of the copyrights belonging to the plaintiff as per the Copyright Act, 1957 . 35. In Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd. v. Uni-Sole Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. ,
 1999(19)PTC188(Bom), the Bonbay High Court observed as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 36. In the present case, it is evident from the photographs in the plaint and
 reproduced in paragraph 29 aforegoing and the photographs taken
 during the visit of the local commissioner on 14.11.2014 that the
 defendants have applied the marks of the plaintiff as well as the
 photographs of its talent, which are within the exclusive domain of the
 plaintiff. Further, the declaration signed by the talent of the plaintiff,
 reproduced in paragraph 15 aforegoing, leaves no room for doubt that
 the plaintiff is the copyright owner in the said works. 37. Accordingly, in my view, the defendants have infringed the copyright
 and trademarks of the plaintiff. PASSING OFF 38. The counsel for the plaintiff submits that the WWE characters and its
 marks are immensely popular and appear on the plaintiff‟s publicity
 material/merchandise. Further, the Plaintiff by its long and continuous
 use of its characters and other WWE Trade Marks has acquired immense
 reputation and goodwill for its business. Accordingly, the plaintiffs have
 acquired common law rights in the same marks. 39. Counsel further submits that the use of the same by the defendants is
 blatantly dishonest and a mala fide attempt by them to derive an unfair
 advantage by creating the impression that their products emanate from the
 plaintiff and have some connection, nexus, association, affiliation with or
 endorsement by the plaintiff. 40. I have heard the learned counsel in this regard, prior to proceeding CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 20 of 27 further, it is necessary to appreciate the nature of a passing off action.
 Passing Off action arises out of common law and is not pre-conditioned
 on registration. The term „passing off‟ was explained by James, L.J. in
 Singer Manufacturing Co. v. Loog, (1880) 18 ChD 395 as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 41. Lord Diplock in Erven Warnink Besloten Vennootschap v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd.,[1979] A.C 731 had identified five
 essentials to establish an action of passing off. The relevant excerpt is
 as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 42. The aforegoing essentials have been accepted by the Supreme Court in
 Cadila Health Care Ltd.v.Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (2001) 5 SCC CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 21 of 27 73 and Heinz Italiav. Dabur India Ltd., (2007) 6 SCC 1. In Cadila
 Health Care Ltd. (Supra), the Supreme Court had further laid down
 the following decisive tests for checking deceptive similarity: 36. Weightage to be given to each of the aforesaid factors
 depending upon facts of each case and the same weightage
 cannot be given to each factor in every case." (Emphasis Supplied) 43. In the present case, applying the aforegoing test I am of the view that
 the defendants have tried to dupe the general public by portraying their
 products in a manner that they originate from the plaintiff. The
 defendants have used the marks of the plaintiff, photographs of its
 talent as well as their tag-lines. Such usage would inevitably lead to
 loss of revenue as also that of goodwill. Accordingly, the defendants CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 22 of 27 have not only indulged in infringement, but also into the offence of
 passing off. DILUTION OF THE TRADEMARK OF THE PLAINTIFF 44. Having held the marks of the plaintiff to be well-known in paragraph
 27 aforegoing, I must deal with the aspect of dilution.In this respect, in Tata Sons Ltd. (Supra)it was held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 45. From the aforegoing observations, it is clear that dilution occurs when
 the power of the trademark to indicate the source of the goods gets
 reduced. A well-known trademark, owing to its use and reputation,
 establishes a clear origin of the goods in the mind of every consumer
 who may come across it. This is its primary purpose. Whenever any
 other person tries to use the mark, the same may reduce the capacity of
 the mark to indicate to the origin of the goods and lead to dilution of
 this differentiating capacity of the mark. 46. Applying the said principle in the present case, the use of the marks by
 the defendants will inevitably create a confusion as to the origin of the
 products and dilute its distinctiveness. Therefore, I am of the view, that
 the defendants have also diluted the well-known marks of the plaintiff. 47. Having held that the defendants have infringed the copyright and CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 23 of 27 registered trademarks of the plaintiff, committed the tort of passing off
 and dilution, the only other issue which remains in the present suit is
 damages. PUNITIVE DAMAGES 48. With regard to the relief of damages as claimed by the plaintiffs in
 paragraph34 (v) of the plaint pertaining to rendition of accounts and
 decree for the amount so determined, it is pertinent to note that since
 the defendants have chosen not to contest the present proceedings, it is
 not possible to ascertain as to the specific amounts raised from the use
 of the infringing marks. But, the same cannot handicap the courts from
 giving punitive/ tentative damages. 49. Further this court has also frequently resorted to the practice of granting
 punitive damages in addition to compensatory damages. To this end, in Time Incorporated v. Lokesh Srivastava & Anr. , 2005 (30) PTC 3
 (Del): 2005 (116) DLT 599, while awarding punitive damages of Rs. 5
 lakhs in addition to compensatory damages also of Rs. 5 lakhs, Justice
 R.C. Chopra observed as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 50. This court in the case of Microsoft Corporation v. Rajendra Pawar &
 Anr., 2008 (36) PTC 697 (Del.) has held: (Emphasis Supplied) 51. A coordinate bench of this court in the case of The Heels v. Mr. V.K
 Abrol and Anr., CS(OS) NO.1385 of 2005 decided on 29.03.2006has
 held: (Emphasis Supplied) 52. Having regard to the facts of this case, rupees five lakhs is awarded as CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 26 of 27 punitive damages in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant in
 terms of para 34 (v) of the plaint. 53. Accordingly, the present suit is decreed in favour of the plaintiff and
 against the defendants in terms of paragraphs 34 (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (vi) of the plaint along with damages of rupees five lakhs. 54. Let a decree sheet be drawn accordingly. G.S.SISTANI, J
OCTOBER 05, 2016
// CS(OS). 1801/2013 Page 27 of 27