1. Present petition has been filed under Section 482 of Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter to be referred as 'the BNSS')

for grant of pre-arrest/anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case bearing FIR

No.71 dated 22.04.2024,, registered for the offences punishable under Section 379of IPC and Section 136 of the Electricity Act at Police Station

Dhand, District kaithal. 2. The gravamen of the FIR in question pertains to theft of

electricity. A written complaint dated 25.11.2024 was received from Sub- Sub

Divisional Office, UHBVN, Pundri,
 Pundri, regarding theft of one transformer of

20KVA AP Category of villae Kakout by unknown thieves on 08.11.2024.

On this basis, FIR No.203 dated 25.11.2024 under Section 136 of the

Electricity Act was registered. Initial investigation was conducted, a ro
 rough
 ugh

site was prepared and witnesses were examined. An untraced report was

submitted on 13.01.2025. Further investigation was later taken up by ASI
 1 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:33 ::: CRM-M--65328-2025 2 Jasmer Singh who received secret information leading to the arrest of

Jaginder and Aman from whose white Al
 Alto
 to car stolen copper wire was

recovered. The copper wire and vehicle were seized and the case property

was deposited at Police Station Titram. During interrogation, the co- co

accused named the present petitioner and recoveries of stolen copper wire

were effected
 ected from multiple co-accused. co accused. A sum of ₹5,000/- alleged to be

proceeds of crime was recovered from the rented premises of the petitioner. petitioner 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has iterated that the

petitioner is not named in the FIR and has been falsely implicated merely on

the basis of disclosure statements, which have no evidentiary value.

Learned counsel has further iterated that nno recovery of stolen material has

been attributed to the petitioner except ₹₹5,000/- which, by itself, does not

implicate the petitioner. Furthermore, tthe FIR has been lodged after an

unexplained delay of 17 days. Learned counsel asserts that the present FIR

is nothing but a concocted story to falsely implicate the petitioner
 petitioner. It has

been further submitted that petitioner is ready
 eady to join investigation and there

is no likelihood of the petitioner absconding from the process of justice in

case he is enlarged on pre-arrest
 pre arrest bail. On strength of aforesaid submissions,

the grant of anticipatory bail is entreated for. 4. Per contra,, learned State counsel (on the strength of advance

notice) has opposed the grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner by

arguing that the offence committed by the petitioner is serious in nature.

Learned State counsel has iterated that the petitioner is repeatedly involved

in a series of identical offences involving organised theft of transformer

material causing heavy loss to the State exchequer. The recoveries made

 2 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:34 ::: CRM-M--65328-2025 3 from co-accused
 accused and the recovery of ₹5,000/
 5,000/- from the accommodation of

the petitioner link him with the proceeds of crime. Furthermore, the

disclosure
 isclosure statements have led to multiple recoveries from various accused

and reveal that the petitioner is part of a larger theft racket. The

investigation is still underway and the custodial interrogation
 ogation of the

petitioner may be required. There exists a genuine apprehension that the

petitioner may influence witnesses or tamper with the prosecution evidence.

Hence, no ground is made out for the grant of anticipatory bail. 5. I have heard the learned counsel for the rival parties and have

gone through the available record of the case. 6. It would be apposite to refer herein to a judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court titled as Kishor Vishwasrao Patil vs. Deepak

Yashwant Patil and
 a another passed in SLP(Crl) No.1125-2022, relevant

whereof reads as under: 76. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra
 [Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra, (2011) 1 SCC
 694 : (2011) 1 SCC (Cri) 514],, the Supreme Court laid down the factors
 and parameters to be considered while dealing with anticipatory bail. It
 was held that the nature and the gravity of the accusation and the exact
 role of the accused must be properly comprehended before arrest is made
 and that the court must evaluate the available material against the
 accused very carefully. It was also held that the court should also
 consider whether thee accusations have been made only with the object of
 injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her. 77. After referring to Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre [Siddharam
 Satlingappa Mhetre v. State ate of Maharashtra
 Maharashtra,, (2011) 1 SCC 694 : 78. Power under Section 438 CrPC being an extraordinary remedy, has
 to be exercised sparingly; more so, in cases of economic offences.
 Economic offences stand as a different class as they affect the economic
 fabric of the society. In Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar
 Jain [Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar Jain, (1998) 2 SCC
 105 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 510],, it was held that in economic offences, the
 accused
 cused is not entitled to anticipatory bail." 15. In Sushila Agrawal and others v. State (NCT of Delhi) and
 Another reported in (2020) 5 SCC 11,, Constitution Bench of this Court
 held that while considering
 ng an application for grant of pre
 pre-arrest
 arrest bail the
 Court has to consider the nature of the offence, the role of the person, the
 likelihood of his influencing the course of investigation, or tampering with
 evidence or likelihood of fleeing justice. The Cour
 Court held:- 7. As per the case put forth in the FIR in question, indubitably,

serious allegations have been levelled against the petitioner. It is a matter of

record that although the petitioner is not named in the FIR, his name

surfaced during the course of investigatio
 investigation through disclosure of co-accused
 accused

which in turn led to recoveries from the several locations. The recovery of

₹5,000/- from the rented accommodation of the petitioner is alleged to be
 5 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:34 ::: CRM-M--65328-2025 6 part of the proceeds of the crime. At the stage of consideration of pleaa for

anticipatory bail such recoveries cannot be ig
 ignored
 nored particularly when it

corroborate the larger chain of events revealed during investigation.

Furthermore, it is borne out from the record that the petitioner is involved in

several other FIRs of similar nature.. The arrest of the petitioner on multiple

production warrants and the fact that the offences are directed against public

property demonstrate a pattern of repeated criminal conduct. In the

considered opinion of this Court, the concession of bail in the earlier FIRs

does not diminish the gravity of the allegations made in the instant case. 8. The plea of the petitioner that he has been falsely implicated in

the present case only on the basis of disclosure statement
 statement(s) is bereft of any

merit as in the present case, the statement
 statement(s) are supported by actual

recoveries and a wider nexus of accused persons indicate that the petitioner

is part of an organized
 organi ed theft racket. At this stage of investigation, such

material is relevant and sufficient to con
 conclude that the custodial

interrogation may still be necessary. The allegations against the petitioner

are serious in nature, involving theft of electricity. The grant of anticipatory

bail in such matters would seriously prejudice investigation and may

embolden
 lden others to indulge in similar illegalities. Prima facie the material

placed on record reveals that the petitioner was involved in organised theft

of transformer material causing heavy loss to the State exchequer.

Moreover, no exceptional or compelling circumstance has been

demonstrated which would warrant the grant of anticipatory bail in such a

serious offence. 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:34 ::: CRM-M--65328-2025 7 9. It is befitting to mention here that while considering a plea for

grant of anticipatory bail, the Court has to equilibrate between safeguarding

individual rights and protecting societal interest(s). The Court ought to

reckon with the magnitude and nature of
 of the offence; the role attributed to

the accused; the need for fair and free investigation as also the deeper and

wide impact of such alleged iniquities on the society. At this stage, there is

no material on record to hold that prima facie case is not madee out against

the petitioner. The material which has come on record and preliminary

investigation, appear to establish a reasonable basis for the accusation of the

petitioner. Thus, it is not appropriate to grant anticipatory bail to the

petitioner, as it would necessarily cause impediment in effective

investigation. In State v. Anil Sharma , (1997) 7 SCC 187 : 1997 SCC (Cri)

1039],, the Supreme
 Supreme Court held as under : (SCC p. p.189, para 6)

 "6. We find force in the submission of CBI that custodial interrogation is
 qualitatively more elicitation-oriented
 oriented than questioning a suspect who is
 well-ensconced
 ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of the Code. In a
 case like this, effective interrogation of a suspected person is of tremendous
 advantage in disinterring many useful information and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Success in such interrogation would elude if the
 suspected person knows that he is well protected and insulated by a pre- pre
 arrest bail order during the time he is interrogated. Very often interrogation
 in such a condition would reduce to a mere ritual. The argument that the
 custodial interrogation
 ation is fraught with the danger of the person being
 subjected to third-degree
 degree methods need not be countenanced, for, such an
 argument can be advanced by all accused in all criminal cases. The Court
 has to presume that responsible police officers would con
 conduct
 duct themselves in
 a responsible manner and that those entrusted with the task of disinterring
 offences would not conduct themselves as offenders. offenders." 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:34 ::: CRM-M--65328-2025 8 10. Accordingly, this Court is of the considered opinion that the

petitioner does not deserve the concession
 concession of anticipatory bail in the factual

milieu of the case in hand. 11. In view of the prevenient ratiocination,
 atiocination, it is directed as under: (SUMEET GOEL)
 JUDGE

November 19, 2025
Ajay

 Whether speaking/reasoned: Yes/No
 Whether reportable: Yes/No

 8 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 20-11-2025 06:47:34 :::