1. The present writ petition arises from a Provisional Order of Attachment (POA)

 issued by respondent no.2 on the basis of "reasons to believe" that the petitioner

 acquired the properties so attached out of funds, being proceeds of crime derived

 out of alleged money‐laundering activities committed by some other entities. The

 said order was passed on December 29, 2017. 2. On January 19, 2018, the respondent no.2 filed an Original Complaint No. 880 of

 2018, under Section 5(5) of the Prevention of Money‐ Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as "the PMLA") before the Appropriate Authority for

 confirmation of the provisional attachment under Section 8(3) of the PMLA. 3. On February 9, 2018 the Appropriate Authority passed a direction for issuance of

 show‐cause notice under Section 8(1) of the PMLA, to the petitioner and other

 persons accused in the said Original Complaint. 4. On February 15, 2018, a show‐cause notice under Section 8 of the PMLA was

 issued. 5. The writ petition has been filed, challenging primarily the POA dated December

 29, 2017 and the order of the Adjudicating Authority (AA) directing issuance of

 show‐cause notice under Section 8(1) of the PMLA, dated February 9, 2018. 3 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner argues that both Sections 5 and 8 of the PMLA

 envisage independent "reasons to believe" at two separate stages. It is argued

 that the "reasons to believe" under Section 8(1) was a necessary pre‐requisite of

 the notice and had to be disclosed to the petitioner for the latter to effectively

 give a reply. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner places reliance on a division bench judgment

 of the Delhi High Court rendered in J. Sekar and Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. ,

 reported at MANU/DE/0075/2018. In the said judgment , the division bench

 observed, inter alia, that the reasons to believe at every stage must be noted

 down by the officer in the file. While reasons to believe recorded at the stage of

 passing the Order of Provisional Attachment under Section 5(1) of the PMLA

 may not be forthwith at that stage communicated to the person adversely

 affected thereby, the reasons as recorded in the file have to accompany the

 complaint filed by such officer within thirty days before the AA under Section

 5(5) of the PMLA. A copy of such complaint, accompanied by the reasons, as

 found in the file, must be served by the AA upon the person affected by such

 attachment after the said authority adds its own reasons why he prima facie

 thinks that the provisional attachment should continue. 4 8. The division bench judgment goes on further to hold that there are two reasons

 to believe. One recorded by the officer passing the order under Section 5(1) ,

 PMLA and the other recorded by the AA under Section 8(1) PMLA. Both these

 reasons to believe should be made available to the person to whom notice is

 issued by the AA under Section 8(1) PMLA. The failure to disclose, right at the

 beginning, the aforementioned reasons to believe to the noticee under Section

 8(1) PMLA would not be a mere irregularity but an illegality, a violation of

 which would vitiate the entire proceedings and cause the POA to be rendered

 illegal. 9. It was held that, on a collective reading of Sections 5(1) and 8(1) of the PMLA, it

 was evident that the requirement of what the AA is supposed to do under Section 8(2) PMLA, namely, to consider the reply of the noticee, give them and

 the Director a hearing and 'take into account' all relevant materials placed on

 record, could not be satisfied in the absence of a communication of the reasons to

 believe. 10. The division bench further held that although at the stage of issuance of notice

 under Section 8(1) PMLA all the relevant materials on record which constituted

 the basis for reasons to believe may not be made available, if the noticee

 demands to see those materials on record, the AA is bound to make available all 5 those materials on record to them, since, without such access to those materials

 on record, the noticee will be unable to file an effective reply. 11. Learned counsel for the respondent‐authorities, on the other hand, argues that

 the AA adopted the reasons to believe for issuance of the notice under Section

 5(1) , PMLA. He relies on page‐21 of the affidavit‐in‐opposition filed by the

 respondent no.2 to indicate that, although there was no necessity to do so, the

 reasons to believe for sending the notice under Section 5(1) of the PMLA were

 communicated by e‐mail to the petitioner. It is argued that since the AA adopted

 such reasons, there could not be any grievance on the part of the petitioner as to

 not being aware of the allegations the petitioner had to meet at the hearing before

 the AA. 12. Next placing reliance upon Section 68 of the PMLA, learned counsel for the

 respondents submits that no notice, summons, order, document or other

 proceeding, furnished or made or issued or taken or purported to have so done

 in pursuance of any of the provisions of the PMLA shall be invalid, or shall be

 deemed to be invalid merely by reason of any mistake, defect or omission in such

 notice, summons etc., if such notice, summons etc. is in substance and effect in

 conformity with or according to the intent and purpose of the PMLA. 6 13. As such, it is argued that even if no reasons to believe arrived at by the AA were

 communicated to the petitioner, since no such notice is contemplated in Section

 8(1) , the mere omission to include the reasons could not vitiate the notice itself

 and/or further proceedings pursuant thereto. 14. By pointing out to the order dated February 9, 2018, whereby the AA directed

 the issuance of notice under Section 8(1) of the PMLA, learned counsel for the

 respondents submits that sufficient reasons to believe, as contemplated in Section

 8(1) , were recorded therein. It is further evident that the AA virtually adopted

 the reasons to believe arrived at while issuing the notice under Section 5(1) of the

 PMLA and as such, in any event, no further communication of the reasons to

 believe recorded by the AA was required to be communicated to the petitioner. 15. Learned counsel for the respondents further places reliance on Section 24 of the

 PMLA to show that, in any proceeding relating to proceeds of crime under the

 PMLA,: As such, it is argued, the burden of proof in any such proceeding is on the

 accused. 16. It is thus submitted that it was for the petitioner to discharge its primary onus to

 prove the petitioner's innocence in the case and not for the AA to discharge any

 initial onus of proof. 17. Learned counsel for the respondents places reliance on the judgment of Biswanath Bhattacharya vs. Union of India and others , reported at (2014) 4 SCC 392,

 wherein the Supreme Court, while dealing with the Smugglers and Foreign

 Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 , observed, inter alia,

 that there was no necessity for communication of the reasons to believe as

 contemplated under Section 6(1) to the noticee. While rendering such judgment,

 the Supreme Court distinguished the judgment of Ajantha Industries vs. CBDT [(1976) 1 SCC 1001] and relied on the case of Narayanappa, reported at AIR 1967

 SCC 523. 18. The reasons for holding so are summarized in paragraph no.16 of the judgment

 of Biswanath Bhattacharya (supra), which is quoted hereinbelow: 8 19. Learned counsel for the respondents next relies on an unreported order dated

 April 8, 2019 passed by a co‐ordinate bench of this court in W.P. No.7624(W) of

 2019 [Sri Mritunjay Singh vs. The Director, Enforcement Directorate (Eastern Region),

 Government of India & Ors.]. It was observed therein, inter alia, that the contention

 that the company‐in‐question was a separate legal entity and that the petitioner

 had nothing to do with regard thereto could not be accepted at that stage. The

 corporate veil of a company could not be utilized for the purpose of perpetuating

 frauds. In the circumstances of the case, however, affidavits were directed to be 9 exchanged and the parties were given the liberty to mention for early hearing of

 the matters. 20. Upon considering the submissions of the parties, the first aspect which comes to

 light is that the expression "reason to believe" finds place both in Section 5 and Section 8 of the PMLA. The said sections of the PMLA are set out below: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this sub‐section, "person interested", in

relation to any immovable property, includes all persons claiming or entitled to claim any

interest in the property. (5) The Director or any other officer who provisionally attaches any property

under sub‐section (1) shall, within a period of thirty days from such attachment, file a

complaint stating the facts of such attachment before the Adjudicating Authority. .... .... .... .... 8. Adjudication. -- (1) On receipt of a complaint under sub‐section (5) of Section 5 , or

applications made under sub‐section (4) of Section 17 or under sub‐section (10) of Section 18 , if the Adjudicating Authority has reason to believe that any person has

committed an offence under Section 3 or is in possession of proceeds of crime, it may

serve a notice of not less than thirty days on such person calling upon him to indicate the

sources of his income, earning or assets, out of which or by means of which he has

acquired the property attached under sub‐section (1) of Section 5 , or, seized or frozen

under Section 17 or Section 18 , the evidence on which he relies and other relevant

information and particulars, and to show cause why all or any of such properties should

not be declared to be the properties involved in money‐laundering and confiscated by the

Central Government: However, the notice under Section 8(1) of the PMLA in the present case, was

 issued by the AA situated at Delhi. 23. Although a writ petition was initially filed in the High Court at Delhi, a learned

 Single Judge directed that the matter ought to be filed before the Calcutta High

 Court, which, in essence, was affirmed by a division bench of the Delhi High

 Court. As such, the present writ petition has been filed before this court, despite

 part of the cause of action for the present writ having arisen in Delhi. 24. In such view of the matter, since the notice under Section 8(1) was a logical

 follow‐up of the POA under Section 5(1) , the causes of action of challenge to the

 said notice and the POA are not segregable and as such, are taken up together for

 consideration. 25. A perusal of the scope of the cause to be shown by the noticee under Section 8(1) itself reveals that the noticee, in the cause shown by him, has to comprehensively

 deal with all the aspects as enumerated in Section 8(1) of the PMLA. One of such 16 conditions is the evidence on which he relies and other relevant information and

 particulars. However, it is well within the scope of such cause to be shown by the

 noticee to point out that there was no basis for the reasons to believe that the

 person has committed an offence under Section 3 or is in possession of proceeds

 of crime, which is the basis of the service of notice by the AA under Section 8(1) of the PMLA. 26. Without an indication as to the reasons to believe for which the AA issued the

 notice, the noticee would be handicapped, without any fault of his own, from

 taking appropriate defence on all aspects of the matter. The evidence on which

 he relies and other relevant information, as indicated in Section 8(1) , might also

 pertain to the absence of any basis of the reasons to believe, on which premise

 the notice itself was issued, thereby vitiating the notice and the ensuing hearing. 27. As such, although it is not specifically engrafted in Section 8(1) of the PMLA as to

 there being any requirement of communicating the reasons to believe arrived at

 by the AA to the noticee, such requirement has to be read into the provision to

 attribute a proper meaning to the same. A meaningful and complete show‐cause

 and consequentially hearing, cannot take place without the noticee having a clear

 idea as to what were the reasons for believing the allegations against him. 17 28. As far as Section 68 is concerned, the same contemplates mistakes, defects or

 omissions in the notice and provides that those would not ipso facto render a

 notice invalid, if such notice is in substance and effect in conformity with or

 according to the intent and purpose of the PMLA. 29. However, as discussed above, the substance and effect of the notice cannot be in

 conformity with or according to the intent and purpose of the Act, which

 incorporates the well established principle of natural justice, audi alteram partem,

 which gives the noticee a right to contest the notice, its basis as well as the

 contents of the notice elaborately, if the basis of the notice under Section 8(1) , that

 is, the "reasons to believe" of the AA are not disclosed in the notice. 30. It has to be noted here that one of the arguments of the respondents is that the

 AA adopted the reasons to believe attributed while passing the POA, which

 reasons were allegedly communicated to the noticee. 31. However, such argument is unacceptable in view of the independent provisions

 of Sections 5 and 8 which, at each of those stages, contemplate independent

 reasons to believe. Section 5 stipulates that if the authority concerned has reason

 to believe, to be recorded in writing, on the basis of material in his possession,

 that a crime as contemplated therein may have been committed, he may, by an

 order in writing, provisionally attach the property‐in‐question. 18 32. On the other hand, Section 8(1) envisages that, on receipt of a complaint under Section 5(5) of the PMLA or applications made under Section 17(4) or Section

 18(10) , "if the Adjudicating Authority has reason to believe ..." that any person

 has committed the offences mentioned therein, it may serve a notice as envisaged

 under Section 8(1) of the PMLA. As such, the exercise of arriving at reasons to

 believe by the AA prior to issuance of a notice asking the noticee to show‐cause

 on the counts as indicated in the said application, has to be arrived at

 independently by the AA, irrespective of the reasons to believe attributed for the

 initial notice under Section 5(1) of the PMLA. Hence, the very fact that the AA

 merely adopted the reasons to believe attributed at the stage of Section 5(1) of the

 PMLA, shows that there was a dereliction of duty on the part of the AA, which

 palpably failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in it by law and to fulfill a

 necessary pre‐condition of the notice under Section 8(1) , that is, arriving at

 independent reasons to believe regarding commission of the offence. Such fact

 itself vitiates the notice and consequentially further proceedings. 33. Moreover, unless the reasons to believe for the AA to issue the notice under Section 8(1) are communicated to the noticee, the latter would not be in a

 position to produce the total evidence on which he relies and other relevant

 information and particulars, which right also incorporates within its fold the

 entitlement to show that the reasons to believe the commission of the offence, as 19 given by the AA, were incorrect, factually or legally, which would hit at the very

 root of the proceeding and vitiate the same in the eye of law. Thus, the ratio laid

 down in J. Sekar and others (supra) by the division bench of the Delhi High Court

 is, with due respect, absolutely correct in law and this court concurs fully with

 such ratio. As per the said judgment , at least at the stage of issuance of notice

 under Section 8(1) , PMLA, the reasons to believe of the AA, as well as the

 authority issuing the notice under Section 5(1) , have to be mandatorily

 communicated to the noticee to give rise to a proper show‐cause and a hearing

 on the matter. Such a requirement, although not enumerated in so many words

 in the statute, has to be read into Section 8(1) to attribute a meaningful

 interpretation to the said provision. 34. In order to satisfy the criterion of Section 68 , the intent and purpose of the Act

 has to be seen. Absence of communication of the reasons to believe at both the

 stages would violate the intent and purpose of the Act and the norms of natural

 justice recognized in every civilized society where the Rule of Law prevails.

 Hence, such an omission would not be a mere irregularity but an illegality

 vitiating the notice itself and, consequentially, the following proceeding. 35. The argument regarding burden of proof as envisaged in Section 24 of the PMLA

 is neither here nor there. The question of burden of proof arises only at the stage 20 of hearing and is not applicable in any manner to the present consideration as

 regards the necessity for communicating the reason to believe in the notice under Section 8(1) of the PMLA. 36. As far as the unreported judgment of the coordinate bench, relied on by the

 respondents, is concerned, the same does not lay down any ratio at all, which is

 pertinent to the present case. The order merely contained a direction for

 exchange of affidavits and a prima facie finding of the court as regards the lifting

 of corporate veil, which has no applicability as a precedent, as far as the case at

 hand is concerned. 37. The other judgment cited by the respondents, being that of Biswanath

 Bhattacharya (supra) is now to be considered in proper perspective insofar as the

 present case is concerned. The said judgment was rendered on a different statute

 than the PMLA, being the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators

 (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 , which was under specific consideration in the

 judgment of the division bench of the Delhi High Court. 38. Moreover, in the said judgment , certain previous decisions on the Income Tax

 Act, 1961 were considered, which are also not germane for deciding the present

 issue on the PMLA, which is a different statute altogether. Despite there being 21 certain similarities between the said statute and the PMLA, the former cannot be

 held to be pari materia with the PMLA. 39. That apart, the Supreme Court ultimately held that the Ajantha Industries case,

 which was dealt with therein, did not lay down a universal principle that

 whenever a statute required some reason to be recorded before initiating action,

 the reasons must necessarily be communicated. The line of distinction with Ajantha Industries (supra) was that there was no provision of appeal or revision

 against an order of transfer, for which it was considered in Ajantha Industries case, that the reasons under Section 127(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 was

 mandatory. 40. While explaining the ratio of its decision, the Supreme Court, in Biswanath

 Bhattacharya (supra) indicated the reasons for doing so in paragraph no.16, as

 quoted above. 41. A perusal of Section 8 of the PMLA, also quoted above, indicates that the noticee

 has no remedy against any illegality in the notice itself. Only upon the trial being

 concluded upon hearing taking place on the notice and the cause shown, if the

 special court finds that the offence of money‐laundering has not taken place or

 the property is not involved in money‐laundering, it shall, under sub‐section (6)

 of Section 8 of the PMLA, order release of such property to the person entitled to 22 receive it. Under sub‐section (8) of Section 8 , the special court may also direct the

 Central Government to restore property confiscated under sub‐section (5) of Section 8 or part thereof of a claimant with a legitimate interest in the property,

 who may have suffered a quantifiable loss as a result of the offence of money‐

 laundering. 42. Section 9 of the PMLA provides that upon an order of confiscation being made,

 all the rights and title in such property shall vest absolutely in the Central

 Government, free from all encumbrances. The subsequent provisions of the Act

 deal with management of the properties confiscated under the aforesaid

 provisions. Section 14 provides that, save as otherwise provided in Section 13 of

 the PMLA, the reporting entity, its Directors and employees shall not be liable to

 any civil or criminal proceedings against them for furnishing information under Section 12(1)(b) of the PMLA. 43. Section 13 , on the other hand, envisages an enquiry to be made or caused to be

 made as the Director may think fit to be necessary, ether on its own motion or on

 an application made by any authority with regard to the obligations of the

 reporting entity. Section 13 provides the recourses which the Director can take in

 case of failure to comply with the obligations under that chapter. 23 44. Section 26 of the PMLA provides an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal from any

 order of the Director made under Section 13(2) . 45. As such, it is evident that the noticee has no remedy against the illegality of a

 notice under Section 5(1) or Section 8(1) of the PMLA and/or even on the

 outcome of the ensuing hearing, if it goes against the noticee. Hence, the line of

 distinction in Biswanath Bhattacharya (supra), with Ajantha Industries (supra) does

 not exist in the present case, since there is no provision for a challenge to the

 legality of the notice or the outcome of the hearing, which is more akin to Ajantha

 Industries (supra) than Biswanath Bhattacharya (supra). 46. In the case of Biswanath Bhattacharya (supra), paragraph no.16 records that the

 reasons were subsequently supplied in the said case, thereby enabling the

 appellant therein to effectively meet the case of the respondents. It was held that,

 in such circumstances, the appellant could have effectively convinced the

 respondents by producing appropriate material that further steps in accordance

 with the notice under Section 6 of the Income Tax Act need not be taken. Apart

 from that, it was held that an order of forfeiture is an appellable order, where the

 correctness of the decision under Section 7 to forfeit the properties could be

 examined. 47. None of such conditions exists in the present case, which makes the proposition laid down in Biswanath Bhattacharya (supra) incompatible with and inapplicable

 to the circumstances of the present case. 48. However, as recorded earlier, the judgment of J. Sekar and others (supra) of the

 division bench of the Delhi High Court is more apt and reasonable vis‐à‐vis the

 case at hand and, as discussed above, this court is of the same opinion as the

 proposition laid down in J. Sekar (supra). 49. Under such circumstances, since nothing has come before the court to prove that

 the notice given to the petitioner under Section 8(1) of the PMLA disclosed the

 reasons to believe as contemplated in such section, which was a prerequisite of

 the notice and had to be arrived at by the AA independently, the notice itself was

 illegal, being bad in law. 50. That apart, even as argued by the respondents themselves, the AA apparently

 adopted the reasons to believe recorded while passing the POA, without arriving

 at any independent findings on such reason to believe, let alone communicate the

 same to the noticee/petitioner. The said inaction on the part of the AA vitiates the

 notice under Section 8(1) as well. 51. In such view of the matter, no proceeding could be initiated on the basis of the

 notice under Section 8(1) issued to the present petitioner, thereby rendering the 25 notice under Section 5(1) infructuous, post facto, since the notice under Section

 5(1) ultimately merged in the notice under Section 8(1) as the latter was a

 continuation of the process initiated by the former. 52. Hence, the entire proceeding, commencing with the notice under Section 5(1) and

 culminating in the notice under Section 8(1) and the proceedings about to be

 started on the basis of the latter, are vitiated for the aforesaid reasons and thus,

 bad in law. As such, both the Provisional Order of Attachment dated December

 29, 2017 and the order dated February 9, 2018, whereby the Adjudicating

 Authority directed the issuance of show‐cause notice to the petitioner under Section 8(1) , PMLA, cannot be sustained. 53. Accordingly, W.P. No.12831(W) of 2019 is allowed on contest, thereby setting

 aside the impugned Provisional Order of Attachment dated December 29, 2017

 passed by the respondent no.2 as well as the order of the Adjudicating Authority

 passed on the basis of such notice on February 9, 2018, under Section 8(1) of the

 PMLA. 54. However, it is made clear that this order will not prevent the authorities from

 reinitiating the process from the stage of issuance of a fresh notice under Section

 5(1) of the PMLA, and subsequent issuance, if found justified as per the

 conditions of the statute, of a notice under Section 8 of the PMLA, intimating the 26 reasons to believe for which the said authorities involved in the issuance of the

 notices came to the conclusion of issuing those, to the noticee. 55. There will be no order as to costs. 56. Urgent certified website copies of this order, if applied for, be made available to

 the parties upon compliance with the requisite formalities. ( Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J. )