Meredith Whittaker, President of Signal Foundation, emphasizes AI’s link to surveillance, its data-hungry nature, and its implications for data privacy and global competition in a comprehensive discussion.

“At the most basic level, AI is a surveillance technology…If AI is going to be generally intelligent, it needs to know everything. And where does that knowledge come from? It comes from data that is created or constructed by different entities to answer questions about various things. It comes from surveillance of people. It is diametrically opposed to data protection, data minimization, and a lot of the privacy legislation that many of us have been pushing for because it requires this data,” Meredith Whittaker, President of Signal Foundation, makes a compelling observation while speaking to MediaNama Founder and Editor Nikhil Pahwa, in an hour-long interview…………….. cont inue reading

What Made It Easier For Fraudsters To Access People’s Biometrics, Aadhaar Details In Kolkata? As per the UIDAI, AePS was used in more than 200.6 million last mile banking transactions in April, 2023. It is currently used by millions of citizens to avail social welfare services linked to Aadhaar.

Bengaluru Gig Workers, Taxi Drivers Demand Ban On Commercial Carpooling Services The Karnataka government has announced restrictions on commercial carpooling using whiteboard vehicles, sparking confusion and debates.

Karnataka Invites Agencies To Set Up An Information Disorder Tackling Unit The EoI comes after earlier announcements by IT Minister Priyank Kharge of a state fact-check unit to tackle misinformation, disinformation, and ‘malinformation.’

Tripura HC Stays Lower Court’s Order Asking WhatsApp To Disclose First Originator Of A Message A Trial Court had directed WhatsApp to disclose first originator of a chat containing fake resignation letter of CM Manik Saha.

Navigating Copyright Challenges: Meghnad S. On Unpacking Government Content On YouTube Interview with digital journalist and creator Meghnad S, who covers parliament on his own YouTube channel, on government copyright on parliamentary proceedings and more.

“Why Does Prasar Bharati Need My Money?”: YouTuber Meghnad’s Copyright Struggles With Government Content Meghnad noted his work could be classified as fair use as he added “a layer of commentary on top” of any government content or parliamentary proceedings being covered, in order to provide information to people.

Paramount Weighs Dropping India Streaming Plan for Partnership [ Read ] Researchers Tested AI Watermarks—and Broke All of Them [ Read ] Stricter EU controls on critical technologies possible from spring 2024 [ Read ] EU Plans for Wholesale CBDC Out Within Weeks, French Central Banker Says [ Read ]

Struggling to keep pace with all the changes taking place in the fast-moving tech policy space? Subscribe to MediaNama today and join our community of smart, informed readers.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event