1. We are concerned in the instant writ petition with a social
debate; and we need to caution that sometimes an ongoing social debate
becomes a major ethical issue with no clear perspective in sight. 2. The ageing Indian conservatism blames the intrusion of the
Western culture into the Indian ethos for all the problems we find in the
societal behaviour. On the other hand, the assertive, new liberal
sensibility haughtily blames a monolithic idea of the past, especially
religion, for its persistent objectification, or some may call it itemization.
They argue that the new forms of media and globalization need not WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 1 of 38 answer for their persistent normalization of objectification. The trouble
with the debate on cultural invasion is that in our eagerness to safeguard
our positioning, based on our ideologies, dogmas and attachments to
values, we forget the obvious. 3. An independent mass media is undoubtedly one of the many
important foundations of a democratic society. Philosophers and
statesmen often measure the democratic credentials of a state with
reference to the degree of independence enjoyed by the media. Media
had always been considered as an organ of thought, character and
refinement. But of late, public concern on the freedom enjoyed by the
media has become a matter of debate. There have been instances when
the broadcast media i.e. television channels have used unethical means to
attract viewership; for increased viewership in turn leads to high flow of
revenue through advertisements. Questionable methods and tactics are
deployed in the hope of easy gains and quick popularity. Many believe
that in the desperate rush to 'grab eye balls' truth becomes a casualty.
Facts are either used selectively or out of context or are sensationalized to
add 'colour' and 'spice' to events. Worse still, transgression of
individual privacy, lying, cheating and deceiving are some of the epitaphs
earned with discredit by the media sometimes. In a speech delivered in
June 2007, Tony Blair, the Prime Minister of Britain, compared the media
to a 'feral beast'. 4. Ethics seeks to use rational and systematic principles, values
and norms to decide what is good or bad, correct or incorrect, right or
wrong. Though sometimes used interchangeably, ethics and morality are
different. While morality pertains more to conventions and customs that
determine or govern behaviour, ethics concerns itself with : 'Whether the
action under consideration is good or bad'. Ethics itself is a complex WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 2 of 38 and controversial subject because society is heterogeneous.
Notwithstanding a frequent reference made to : 'the ignorant masses',
'the poor masses', 'the common masses', it has to be recognized that the
mass is a faceless, large, heterogeneous and amorphous body of people
with different ideologies, faiths, belief and attachments to dogmas. And
this presents the most difficult challenge to the mass media because it
entails communication within audience from different sections of the
society and across societies. Topics considered worthy of a broadcast
arise from the public and the public itself is the targeted audience. It is
rightly said that media revolves around society because people provide
the news and are the recipients of the news. 5. Media personnel deal with the subject of gender crimes;
exploitation of the under-privileged, brazen and vulgar indulgence of the
affluent, arrogance of those in positions of power and authority - the list
is endless. One would accordingly expect that the language and the tone
of a broadcast is appropriate, proper and relevant. The path therefore is a
six fold path consisting of: (i) right speech; (ii) right action; (iii) right
exertion; (iv) right-mindedness; (v) right resolution; and (vi) right point
of view. The first two pertain to physical control, the next two pertain to
mental control and the last two pertain to intellectual development. 6. As societies evolve, culture, belief, practices and values
change. A dichotomy can be observed between the conduct and the
belief-system within a society. An example of one such dichotomy could
be, that despite our belief in the 'sacredness' of our rivers and water
bodies; the age-old tradition of respecting the wet lands and treating some
of our rivers as our 'mothers'; bestowing the title 'temples of modern
India' we have encouraged industries to be set up near rivers and water
bodies - effluents are discharged freely in these very 'sacred' rivers. 7. Grievances that people over the world have taken to vulgar
ways; they have grown greedy, avaricious, jealous and quarrelsome; they
do not know whether they are happy or miserable, go back to the
mythical days when gods went to Brahma, the creator, complaining as
aforesaid, with a request : 'Please let us have some diversion which could
be both heard and seen'; and so Brahma created drama. Texts on
Natyashastra i.e. science of drama, quote said legend. But what were the
flavours which one started getting in drama? 8. Occasionally piety, occasionally humour or satire;
occasionally fights; occasionally a social problem; etc. but slowly
graduating to sexual passion. Even drama got corrupted. Titles such as
'Halwa sooji da, chaska dooji da', ‗Chadhi jawani budhe nu', with
raunchy dialogues and suggestive undertones - dialogues with innuendos - theaters were house full. A form of entertainment gifted by Brahma got
corrupted with the passage of time. But we have to live with the drama
and obviously the producer would produce a drama which would attract
the audience and would look to such Directors who could deliver the
goods. 9. Modernization has generally enhanced the material level of
civilization throughout the world. In many respects it has enhanced the
moral and cultural dimensions of civilization. Colonization, slavery,
untouchability, torture and abuse of individuals are no longer acceptable
in the contemporary world. Globally, as the citizens of the world step
into the new millennium, in varying degrees, we find people using the
instruments of modern life such as mobile phones, internet, television,
fast food, pop music and Western attire. There are many in India who
fear that liberalization, which comes hand in hand with modernization,
will play havoc with our values. Showmanship, gross consumerism, WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 4 of 38 cheap exhibitionism and seeking always to be in the news as a star or a
superstar are overtaking the beauty and aesthetics of even the artistic.
Another aspect of this is the emergence of a 'consumer culture' - the
product of the television network. Manufacturers and sellers, in a
market-centered system, resort to indiscriminate television coverage of
their products. They would obviously prefer to advertise in programmes
where the viewership is the highest. This has led to commercial
producers of television programmes being constantly on the look-out for
those who can make programmes which would entertain the maximum
people. We can witness the shifting of the relationship between art and
society from the creative interface, in which the artist is moved by deep
values and commitments, to that of increasingly institutionalized sets of
contracts and salesmanship. Social responsibilities are seen receding
from artistic consciousness. 10. Many believe that the world is heading towards a 'universal
civilization' which would be dominated by the Western values,
assumptions and doctrines. After all, the Hindu view of the cosmos
emphasizes : 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' - the world is a family. So what
is wrong in thinking alike, behaving alike, speaking alike, eating alike,
viewing alike etc. etc. The last hymn of the Rig Veda expresses it
admirably: 11. Translated it reads: 'Walk together; speak in concord; let our
minds apprehend alike, let our efforts be united; let our hearts be in
agreement, let our minds be united, that we may all be happy.' WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 5 of 38 12. Truth is one. But with many interpretations. As the Father
of the Nation, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi expressed it: 'Life is an
experiment with truth.' And the experiment with truth would be
incomplete if contradictions of the universal moral order are not
understood by grappling sometimes with the moral person and sometimes
with the vulgar person. 13. The freedom of expression is a pivotal component of our
individual development - as human beings and as 'political animals' -
and to improve and radicalize democracies. The invention of the press
constituted the turning point for the debates about freedom of expression.
Guaranteeing each individual's right to freely seek, receive or impart
information while interacting with other individuals ceased to be enough.
It was necessary to go beyond, upholding this right allied by an
intermediary that radically magnified the outreach of opinions,
information and ideas: the mass media. 14. The factual background is that the third respondent: 'UTV
Software Communication Ltd.' is engaged in the business of broadcast
and operates a TV Channel called 'UTV Bindass' on which a programme
named 'Emotional Atyachar' is broadcast. Of the various programmes
which are broadcast on television, one category is 'Reality television'. As
the name suggests, 'Reality TV' is a non-fictional programme, in which
the central characters, or subjects, are 'Real' people, which is to say that
they are not professional actors and do not have a script. In its original
form, such reality TV shows featured interviews and talk shows but it
slowly graduated to entertainment. The idea being to present real world
events as they happened or even document real events over time. Singing
and dancing talents were discovered in reality shows. By the year 2009,
probably due to the viewers being tired with the many soap operas WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 6 of 38 featuring mother-in-law/daughter-in-law, Reality TV shows focused on
socially relevant themes, such as 'interpersonal relationship between
husband and wife', 'members of opposite sexes'; may be as friends or
colleagues in an office etc. etc. Programmes such as 'Sach ka samna'
(Moment of truth), 'Khatron ke khiladi' (Fear Factor), 'Rakhi ka
swayamvar' (Rakhi's choice of a life partner) and the one with which we
are concerned 'Emotional Atyachar' (Cheaters). 15. The filing of the instant writ petition is proof of the fact that
these reality shows gained in popularity. The producers of these
programmes claim that since the production is not in a controlled
environment and no script is used, the thrill lies in the realness of the
programme for the reason genuine response of the people enshrine the
inherent 'value' of the show. But along, may enter in the show,
utterances which may be found to be offensive to the sensibilities of even
an ordinary person; to be overlooked, as all ordinary persons would do,
when in the heat of a dialogue the opponent, overcome by emotion, losing
temporary self-control gives vent to a thought using expletives. We
encounter such embarrassing moments in life amongst friends and family
members: 'caution or a reprimand' serves the purpose, and life goes on.
The wrong doer is not ostracized or banished from the social circle or the
family. It is a self-corrective mechanism. And so would urge Shri Ashok
Desai, learned senior counsel for respondent No.3, to which Mr.Rahul
Mehra learned counsel who argued the brief pro-bono for the petitioner
replied that a self-corrective system within a small group of the society
would not be apposite in its application when the society at large is
wronged. Learned counsel urged that self-corrective mechanism in
today's environment where media has become a money spinning devise
would be an oxymoron. 16. The format of the programme 'Emotional Atyachar' is, as
claimed, a consent taken from a person in a live in relationship; followed
by a trap being laid where one partner is enticed by a planted hunter, if
we may use the phrase, and once the prey falls into the trap, when the
heat of the moment is at its maximum in the trap, the other partner is
brought in to see the breach of faith of the entrapped partner. A flare up
is bound to ensue if a female partner sees the male partner in the cosy
arms of another lady. The accusation of breach of trust, faith and
confidence are bound to fly. Entrapped, the prey starts furnishing
justifications for the wrongful acts, and as is usual: offence is the best
defence - strategy is employed. The entrapped partner accuses the
opposite of being likewise unfaithful. A spat ensues. The viewer laps it
all. The producer of the programme claims that deceit and treachery is a
mundane activity in all spheres of life, including the house where the
couple lives or even when two members of the opposite sex forge more
than a platonic bond. The writ petitioner claims that the theory of alleged
consent propounded is patently absurd because if a couple has consented
to participate in a reality show of the kind, it is just not possible that a
decoy would be able to entrap anyone, for if one know that he/she is a
part of a reality show of a particular kind, he/she would obviously be
expecting a thematic setting to carry forward the show. As per the
petitioner, the truth is that one out of the two partners is instigated to get
the loyalty of the other partner tested. The partner contacted normally
tells that he/she does not suspect the loyalty of the other. But the
producer insists that he has proof to the contrary. The partner preyed
upon is brain washed to agree to accompany the TV crew to a place
where it is informed that the partner is making merry. This is preceded
by a honey trap being laid and the other partner being entrapped. Once WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 8 of 38 the prey is lured in the lair, the other partner springs all of a sudden and
catches the wrong doer, literally with the pants down. The petitioner
claims that as the other partner, finding himself/herself being cheated,
bound to be emotionally surcharged, bursts into a tirade; choicest
expletives are hurled inviting a few to be returned by way of compliment.
Not only is the sentiment of the programme but even the language is
stated to be fouling the atmosphere in the family of the viewer. Brazenly
vulgar language is used. To add fuel to the fire, the programme is aired at
prime time when the viewership is the maximum. Adolescent sons and
daughters, sons and daughters in their teens, maidens and bachelors,
fathers and mothers, uncles and aunts, grandfather and grandmother -
sitting together in front of the television box find themselves not only
embarrassed but also idiots watching the programme. But by the time
realization dawns, the damage is done. The mind of the adolescent and
teenagers is corrupted. Their language is also corrupted. Their cultural
values are also corrupted. They think that it is normal to use such kind of
language whenever an interpersonal debate gets heated. The petitioner
prays that the reality show be directed to be investigated by CBI and the
license obtained by respondent No.3 to operate a TV Channel should be
cancelled. 17. In all fairness to Shri Rahul Mehra, the learned counsel who
appeared pro-bono for the petitioner after the petition had been filed, did
not argue for grant of relief as per prayers made. Very fairly conceding
that a broad issue of great public importance was emerging for
consideration, the learned counsel submitted that he would be making
submissions on two distinct facets. Firstly a regulatory mechanism to
enforce the provisions of ' The Cable Television Networks (Regulation)
Act 1995' be devised. Secondly action to be taken against respondent WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 9 of 38 No.3 for being found to be violating the 'Programme Code' i.e. Rule 6 of
the 'The Cable Television Network Rules 1994'. And for the curious
reader who may find it a little odd that the Rules are of 1994 but the Act
is of 1995, we would like to inform that the Act, as per sub- Section 3 of Section 1 thereof, shall be deemed to have come into force on September
29, 1994, on which date the Rules of 1994 were promulgated as per
power conferred by sub- Section 1 of Section 22 of 'The Cable Television
Networks (Regulation) Ordinance 1994'. The first violation is the one
detected by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting of being
offensive to the sensibilities of children, directing the timing to be shifted
to 11:00 PM, reference whereof is to be found in a show cause notice
dated February 22, 2011 (Annexure R-5) when another violation (second)
in the form of allegedly indecent, obscene and vulgar language used -
offending good taste and decency, was alleged and therein a reference
was made to a violation in the past. The show cause notice would
evidence that the offending programme was not one but five in number
broadcast on November 20, 2010, November 27, 2010, December 04,
2010, December 11, 2010 and December 18, 2010. Four letter words
were used in the broadcast. So it is alleged in the show cause notice. The
third set of violation was as found in Annexure R-1/6 pertaining to
programmes broadcast on July 16, 2011 and July 23, 2011. Learned
counsel pointed out another violation found by a self regulatory body
constituted by the broadcasters called 'Broadcast Content Complaint
Council' (BCCC) which also found a violation during the pendency of
the instant writ petition. 18. Admittedly, neither under ' The Cable Television Networks
(Regulation) Act 1995´ or the Rules of 1994, a regulatory body has been
constituted. In other words, the provisions of the Act and the Rules are WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 10 of 38 enforced by the executive, and this would be any functionary of the
Government of India working in the Ministry of Broadcasting. The
Union of India claims that an administrative decision has been taken that
complaints would be examined by a Committee consisting of: (i)
Additional Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting - as
Chairperson; (ii) Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs; (iii) Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice; (iv) Joint Secretary, Ministry of
Women and Child Development; (v) Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare; (vi) Joint Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs; (vii) Joint Secretary, Ministry of Defence, (viii) Representative from the
'Advertising Standards Council of India (A Self Regulatory Body of the
Advertising Industry)'; and (ix) Joint Secretary (Broadcasting). 19. And we simply highlight that we fail to understand as to
what would the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry
of External Affairs and Ministry of Defence be doing? 20. In the year 2008 the Government of India had prepared a
draft of 'Self-Regulation Guidelines for the Broadcasting Sector - 2008',
proposing a two-tier self regulatory mechanism. Firstly a self-regulatory
system where a broadcaster would nominate an individual charged with
the duty to comply with the law, to whom a complaint could be
addressed. At the second tier was, if we may use the expression, an
Appellate Forum at the industry level being 'Broadcasting Consumers
Complaint Committee' (BCCC) consisting of professional experts
representing all stake holders such as industry, consumer, civil society
and organizations of eminence in social sciences. As per the Union of
India concerns were expressed by various sections in the media. A wide
ranging consultative process was put into motion with all stake holders,
but a consensus eluded. Conceding that the regulations of 2008 have no WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 11 of 38 statutory force, as per Union of India and respondent No.3 the Indian
Broadcasting Foundation, a body of broadcasters has set up BCCC which
is functioning from July 01, 2011. The Committee consists of:- transmit through a cable service any advertisement unless
 such advertisement is in conformity with the prescribed
 advertisement code.‖ 25. Sections 16 and 17 provide for punishment for contravention
of the provisions of the Act and offences by companies respectively. The
two provisions read as under:- 2. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
 of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), the
 contravention of section 4A shall be a cognizable
 offence under this section. 17. Offences by companies. - (1) Where an offence under this Act has been
 committed by a company, every person who, at the
 time the offence was committed, was in charge of,
 and was responsible to, the company for the
 conduct of the business of the company, as well as
 the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
 offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
 and punished accordingly: section (1), where any offence under this Act has
 been committed by a company and it is proved that
 the offence has been committed with the consent or WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 14 of 38 connivance of, or is attributable to any negligence
 on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or
 other officer of the company, such director,
 manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
 deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
 liable to be proceeded against and punished
 accordingly. Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, - (a) ‗Company' means any body corporate and
 includes a firm or other association of individuals;
 and (b) ‗director' in relation to a firm means a
 partner in the firm.‖ 26. Sections 19 and 20 , enable the authorized officer to prohibit
a cable operator from transmitting or re-transmitting a programme which
is not in conformity with the prescribed programme code or the
advertisement code referred to in Sections 5 and 6 as also such
programmes which are found to be within the ambit of the latter part of Section 19 . Section 20 empowers the Central Government to prohibit the
operation of a cable television network itself if as contemplated by Section 20 it becomes necessary in public interest to do so. Sections 19 and 20 read as under:- 27. Providing flesh and blood to the skeleton of Section 5 and Section 6 of the Act, pertaining to ‗Programme Code' and ‗Advertising
Code', Rule 6 and 7 of The Cable Television Networks Rules 1994
enumerate as under:- 7. Advertising Code. - (1) Advertising carried in the cable service shall
 be so designed as to conform to the laws of the
 country and should not offend morality, decency
 and religious susceptibilities of the subscribers. (2) No advertisement shall be permitted which - (i) derides any race, caste, colour, creed and
 nationality; (ii) is against any provision of the Constitution
 of India: Women must not be portrayed in a manner that
 emphasises passive, submissive qualities and
 encourages them to play a subordinate,
 secondary role in the family and society. The
 cable operator shall ensure that the portrayal of
 the female form, in the programmes carried in
 his cable service is tasteful and aesthetic, and is
 within the well established norms of good taste
 and decency; (vii) exploits social evils like dowry, child
 marriage. (viii) promotes directly or indirectly production,
 sale or consumption of-- (a) cigarettes, tobacco products, wine,
 alcohol, liquor or other intoxicants; (b) infant milk substitutes, feeding bottle or
 infant foods. (3) No advertisement shall be permitted the
 objects whereof are wholly or mainly of a
 religious or political nature; advertisements must
 not be directed towards any religious or political
 end. (3A) No advertisement shall contain reference
 which hurt religious sentiments. (4) The goods or services advertised shall not
 suffer from any defect or deficiency as mentioned
 in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . (5) No advertisement shall contain references
 which are likely to lead the public to infer that
 the product advertised or any of its ingredients
 has some special or miraculous or super-natural
 property or quality, which is difficult of being
 proved. (6) The picture and the audible matter of the
 advertisement shall not be excessively 'loud'

 (7) No advertisement which endangers the safety
 of children or creates in them any interest in
 unhealthy practices or shows them begging or in
 an undignified or indecent manner shall not be
 carried in the cable service. (8) Indecent, vulgar, suggestive, repulsive or
 offensive themes or treatment shall be avoided in
 all advertisements. (9) No advertisement which violates the
 standards of practice for advertising agencies as
 approved by the Advertising Agencies
 Association of India, Bombay, from time to time
 shall be carried in the cable service. (10) All advertisements should be clearly
 distinguishable from the programme and should
 not in any manner interfere with the programme
 viz., use of lower part of screen to carry captions,
 static or moving alongside the programme.‖ 28. As per the petitioner, the programmes of respondent No.3
offend good taste and decency as also denigrate women in such way that
the mind thinks derogatory of women; in any case, says the petitioner, the
format of the programmes not only corrupts but even injures public
morality as also the morals of the society. 29. As a matter of fact, though the respondent No.3 never
admitted it, but the Union of India admits that the three violations as
alleged by the petitioner have been found to have been committed.
Pertaining to the first violation, the content of the programme was found
to be not suitable for children, requiring the time slot to be shifted post
11:00 PM i.e. after the children have gone to bed, and we understand that
this would be the time when ‗Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town;
Upstairs and Downstairs, in his night gown. Peeping through the
windows and knocking at the doors : are all the children in their bed for
it is past 8 O'clock.' When the second set of violations were detected,
after issuing a show-cause notice, on July 26, 2011 (Annexure R-1/5) an
order was passed to run Apology Scroll every hour for seven days
between July 29, 2011 to August 05, 2011. It was informed that any
further violation would entail stringent action which may include
suspension or prohibition of the broadcast. 30. The grievance of the petitioner was that in spite of a third
violation being found as per minutes of the meeting dated August 08,
2011, Annexure R-1/6, no order was passed because instant writ petition
was pending. Learned counsel would urge that even the BCCC i.e. the
Self Regulatory Body found two programmes dated June 25, 2011 and
July 02, 2011 to be having objectionable content, but passed no directions
since instant writ petition was pending. 31. To summarize, learned counsel for the petitioner urged that
since the Act and the Rules envisage that any broadcast which is vulgar,
offensive of public morality, is indecent or not in good taste should not
only be prohibited but even registration of the broadcaster cancelled, an
authority to enforce the Act and the Rules has to be put in place and it
should not be left to the discretion of the Executive to take cognizance of
complaints and adjudicate thereon. On facts, learned counsel urged that
three violations were found by the Executive and one by BCCC. Counsel
urged that respondent No.3 is a proved incorrigible violator of the law
warranting the strictest action to be taken against it i.e. power to be
exercised under Section 20 and hence a direction to be issued to prohibit
respondent No.3 from transmitting the broadcast ‗Emotional Atyachar'.
In fact, Mr.Rahul Mehra, pleaded that the facts admitted by the Union of
India pertaining to the four violations, were sufficient to even direct the
registration of respondent No.3, to function as a cable operator, to be
cancelled. 32. Responding to the factual aspect of the matter, i.e. the four
violations alleged against the respondent No.3, Shri Ashok Desai, learned
senior counsel urged that Emotional Atyachar was envisaged to be having
four parts, called Season-1, Season-2, Season-3 and Season-4. Learned
senior counsel highlighted that whereas Season-1, 2 and 3 were an WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 22 of 38 unscripted reality show, having a theme of the loyalty of a partner,
Emotional Atyachar Season-4 is a dramatized show of real life incidents
of a person, who have themselves undertaken or conducted a loyalty test
on their partners. The social relevance was explained by urging that in
today's modern society, infidelity in relationship is a fact of life and thus
a media house was entitled to hold a mirror up to the society, portraying
life and society as it exists in its many hues, with unsavoury truths of
relationships being one of the many colours of the society. Learned
senior counsel urged that it is useless to portray only good, the perfect or
the idyll for unless the worst is shown to the society, it would be difficult
to make the society understand what plagues the society. Learned senior
counsel urged that respondent No.3 had to experiment with the truth.
Thus, the respondent No.3 itself was on a learning curve; but striving to
improve, based upon public reaction to the programmes it improved the
broadcasts. Learned senior counsel urged that there may be aberrations in
an episode or two out of roughly 25 episodes constituting each Season.
Therefore, learned senior counsel would urge that reality shows have to
be viewed not episode by episode but collectively. Learned senior
counsel urged that based upon the reaction received pertaining to the
earlier shows, the respondent No.3 kept on making improvements: 33. Print media is regulated by ‗ The Press Council Act 1978'.
To enforce the Act, a Council called ‗The Press Council of India' is
constituted as per Section 4 of the Act, and as per Section 5 thereof, the
composition of the Council is : a Chairman and 28 other members. The
Chairman is to be nominated by a Committee constituting of the
Chairman of the Council of States (Rajya Sabha), the Speaker of the
House of the People (Lok Sabha) and a person elected by the members of
the Council. Of the 28 members, 13 are nominated by working
journalists, 6 are nominated from amongst persons who own or carry on
business of management of newspapers, 1 is nominated in accordance
with such procedure as may be prescribed from among persons who
manage news services, 3 persons are nominated, 1 each by the University WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 24 of 38 Grants Commission, Bar Council of India and Sahitya Academy, i.e.
persons having special knowledge in Education, Law and Literature, and
5 persons being Members of Parliament are nominated; 3 by the Speaker
of the Lok Sabha and 2 by the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. The
Chairman and the Members of the Council hold office for a period of 3
years. As per Section 7 of the Act, the Chairman is a whole-time officer
to be paid a salary by the Central Government; and notwithstanding who
could be the Chairman, by tradition it has always been a retired Judge of
the Supreme Court of India. 34. As per the Cinematograph Act 1952, a Board is constituted
as per Section 3 , consisting of a Chairman and not less than 12 but not
more than 25 members appointed by the Central Government. The
Chairman of the Board has to be paid a salary as determined by the
Central Government. As per Section 5 , to enable the Board to discharge
its functions efficiently, at Regional Centres, Advisory Panels have to be
established. An Appellate Forum i.e. a Tribunal is constituted under Section 5(d) of the Act consisting of a Chairman who shall be a person
who has held the office of a Judge of a High Court or is qualified to be
appointed as a Judge of the High Court; the Chairman receives salary as
determined by the Central Government, and not more than 4 members. 35. Pertaining to publications, if a newspaper, a document or a
book is opined to contain matters, publication whereof would be
punishable under Section 124A, 153A, 153B, 292, 293 or 295A of the Indian Penal Code , stating the grounds for its opinion, by notification,
Government can direct such document, newspaper or book to be seized as
per Section 95 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973. But, as per
Section 96 thereof, a person interested can seek a declaration from the
High Court to set aside the notification issued and such an application has WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 25 of 38 to be heard by 3 Judges, where the High Court consists of 3 or more
Judges and by a Special Bench if the High Court consists of less than 3
Judges. 36. The Press Council Act 1978, The Cinematographic Act 1952
and the applicable provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973
highlight that freedom of expression, Print and Celluloid has been
accorded a very high status in India, in conformity with the march of
times by State which claims democratic credentials. Recognizing that
freedom enjoyed by the media cannot be unregulated, at the same time
unshackling from State control the freedom of the media, a balance is
struck by constituting Boards consisting of men and women of stature
enjoying public confidence, charged with the duty to ensure that the
media does not become a ‗feral beast'. 37. In the United Kingdom we find that the Communications
Act 2003 regulates media broadcast. A statutory body named 'Office of
Communication' (OFCOM), consisting of a Chairman and such number
of members as OFCOM deems fit has been constituted which is charged
with the duty to ensure that broadcast media conforms to The
Communication Act 2003. 38. But, does television have any impact on social behaviour?
Does a particular kind of broadcast have an impact on social behaviour? 39. We do not find much literature on the subject which is based
on empirical data. But would hasten to add that social scientists are of
the opinion that television has impacted the behaviour of the society as
also that a particular kind of a broadcast can also impact social behaviour.
These opinions are unsupported by any empirical data. 40. We could lay our hands on one publication by sociologists in
Canada. The publication is called 'The Impact of Television : A Natural
Experiment in Three Communities'. 41. Television is awful! Kids watch too much of it! Are
exclaims commonly heard in soft discussions at social gatherings. 42. Of the various usages of Cathode rays, one led to the
invention of television. T.V. broadcast began on July 02, 1928 in the
United States of America. The next year 1929 we had television in the
United Kingdom and Germany. Followed by France and USSR in the
year 1931. With single TV channels : Unitel, commencing from news
only, slowly and steadily various kinds of programmes were introduced.
Came along multi channels. Simultaneously, the industrial revolution
was also having its impact on the society in the said countries. World
War-I was over. These countries were re-building themselves. It was the
age of travel, discovery and of reason. Which factor outweighed the
others in the changing behavioral pattern leading towards consumerism, it
was difficult to guess. Depending upon the sample size and the method
adopted to study the sample, different social scientists propounded
different theories. 43. Television broadcasts were introduced in Canada in the year
1952. They were available in most parts of Canada by the year 1973
except for a few towns in Central British Columbia. The terrain was
mountainous and therefore the TV signals didn't carry far. In the year
1973, the town elders convinced the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
(CBC) the official channel of the Government to install transmitter for
them. The towns would be exposed to television, not in its early
formative stage, but in its mature and virulent form. Tannis MacBeth
Williams, a Professor of Sociology at the University of British Columbia WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 27 of 38 in Vancouver, learnt about the transmitters being installed and decided to
test the hypothesis about the effects of television by studying the social
behavioural pattern in the towns before and after the television arrived. 44. Hard Science students routinely denigrate the subject of
Sociology for its lack of controlled experiments, ignoring the fact that
even the field scientists have the same problem. Just as astronomers do
not get to try out different galactic structures in the laboratory nor do
geologists get to bang continents together to see what happens, like
sociologists, they too have to find reasons for things from studying them
as they are. But in this case in Canada there was a beautiful example of a
community where the effect of a change in one variable could be
observed. 45. Williams and 12 other faculty and students from the
University of British Columbia did extensive surveys around the towns
which they code-named 'Notel'. They did control studies in towns
having a single TV channel and towns having four broadcast channels.
They studied the towns twice : once before TV came and once after two
years of the advent of TV. 46. Fortunately, the homogenous character of the towns was the
same. Nearly similar in size. Around same population. Similar
economic base : logging, mining and farming being the activities yielding
income. Income level being around C$ 7000 per family. The class
structure being similar : 10% business; 60% skilled labour/farmer and
20% - 30% unskilled labour. All towns had small libraries, weekly
newspapers, telephones and a regular road and rail service. 47. So, what did the team discover? 48. It was observed that the introduction of television had caused
significant changes in the attitudes and behavior of the people of the WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 28 of 38 towns where television had been introduced, especially in the case of
young children. It was observed that television seemed to increase the
differences that the children saw between the sexes, mainly between boys
and girls. It led to increase gender awareness at a young and tender age.
A drastic effect was noticed concerning social activities in the form of
religious, civic, business or sports events wherein participation dropped
significantly. The group most affected was those over 55 years of age
and their participation dropped dramatically. The number of activities did
not change, however the amount of participation reduced. Upon
examination of the reading fluency of young children using a
Tachistoscope, an instrument which flashes a word on a screen for a few
milliseconds, and the speed of response determines the reading fluency of
the reader, it was observed that the reading skills of children below the 8th
grade (whose reading skills had already developed) had been hindered
since television distracted and consumed reading time, thus reducing time
dedicated to reading and hampering the children's reading abilities and
habits. The most profound effect was noted in relation to the behavior of
the children. It was observed that there was increased aggression in
children of a young age reflected by increased acts of pushing, taunting,
scuffles etc. in the class room and in the playground. Boys were more
physically aggressive than girls; however, they were both equally
verbally aggressive. The overall level of aggression was noted to have
increased in both boys and girls. Interestingly, no significant effect was
found in the behavioural pattern where single TV channel was broadcast
and where four channels were broadcast. Meaning thereby, the advent of
television made the impact and not the particular contents of a
programme. 49. In conclusion of the study it was observed that the introduction of
television had made children more aggressive, harmed the reading skills
of the children, decreased creativity and cut participation in leisure
activities amongst children and adults as well. Overall, introduction of
television had a negative effect on the community where it was
introduced. 50. The virulent form of television in a virgin community would have
no better study, in any case we have not come across any. 51. The reason for changed social behaviour is obvious. Take children.
In the play field with a football, they learn to form two teams : 52. Whether Emotional Atyachar or Sach Ka Samna is to be blamed
for the ills in the society or over 200 channels 24 x 7, 365 days a year,
and not to forget 366 in the leap year. 53. The study by Professor Williams and his team, with empirical data,
and a good sample, tell us that it is the latter and not the former. 54. The test whether a piece of writing, a cinematograph film, a
painting or a TV serial is vulgar or is against good taste or decency is to
keep in mind the mythical 'common man' who has been created by
creative judicial minds. Now, this common man is supposed to be a
person with ordinary prudence, robust common sense, sense of humour,
sense of rationale and understanding, of course with the usual failings of
an imperfect mind. One would ordinarily expect such a common man to
shun something which is not in good taste or is against decency. Do we
not instinctively grimace when foul odour is smelt? Do we not
instinctively cover our nose? Do we not instinctively spit bitter and
festered food? Do we not instinctively put our hands on the ears if we
hear a loud bang? Do we not instinctively remove our hand if it touches
hot iron? But why is it that when the eyes perceive something
sensational, some look the other side and like Gandhiji's first monkey, WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 31 of 38 shut the eyes, but the gaze of some gets fixed to that sensational
something. Are those who shut their eyes the mythical common man or
is it those who do not? 55. We have no answer. We venture none. Who are we to say that
50% of the people in society are foolish. 56. But, we have an explanation for such diametrically opposite
behaviour in society when it comes to doing things which some perceive
as objectionable and worthy of a response by shutting of the eyes and
some consider it worthy of a gaze. Human nature is a union of opposites
: love and hatred; peace and violence; truth and falsehood; unselfishness
and self-centeredness; saintliness and sinfulness; and the spiritual and the
physical. These opposite traits are inseparable from one another. 57. This appears to be the reason why the 'Self-Regulation Guidelines
for the Broadcasting Sector - 2008', remained a subject matter of debate;
with a consensus eluding the Government, as informed to us by the
respondents. 58. We have reached far enough to realize that two Judges sitting on a
Division Bench would hardly be capable of carrying the mantle and
resolve the deadlock of two competing claims and in particular how to
regulate the mass media. 59. But fortunately for us we are not called upon to lay down
guidelines pertaining to broadcast for the reason we have a Statutory
Programme Code and we have statutory provisions to enforce the same.
The limited question with which we are concerned is whether or not to
accept self regulation as sufficient or nudge the Government to put in
place a statutory body to enforce the Programme Code or leave it to the
Executive to do the needful. 60. Learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned senior counsel
for respondent No.3 conceded that the third option was the worst. The
debate therefore was on the first two i.e. self regulation vis-à-vis a
statutory body composed of men and women of eminence to regulate
mass media. 61. The freedom of expression is a pivotal component of our individual
development - as human beings and as political animals - and to improve
and radicalize democracies. The invention of the Press was a turning
point in the debate about freedom of expression. The printing press
magnified the reach of opinions, information and ideas. Indeed, the pen
became mightier than the sword. Guaranteeing each individual the right
to freely give and receive information was perceived as a threat to the
sovereign and sometimes even the State; when ideologies clashed. It was
the era of mass media. Except for the United States of America, due to
the First Amendment, democracies all over the world regulated mass
media. 62. The countervailing viewpoints i.e. society would be better off
without any regulation versus that society would be better off with a
regulation has of lately been debated by Professor Amartya Sen who has
persuasively argued that it is the precondition of social and economic
development that transparent and open communications are necessary to
ensure economic and social development that benefit everyone. There is
often a tussle between the forces of media and state authorities over the
communication of certain material with the general view that the State
tries to limit media exposure. The response of the Media and the
citizenry to state control and intervention in a democratic government
may be summated in a quote: 'If liberty means anything to all, it means
the right to tell people what they do not want to hear'. George Orwell. 63. However, the absence of state intervention on its own is no
guarantee of a rich media environment. On the contrary: to promote a
media environment characterized by pluralism and diversity, State
intervention is necessary. To guarantee pluralism and diversity of
opinion requires provisions for public broadcasting, commercial
broadcast and print media and community-based broadcast. To ensure
media pluralism may require the application of competition law by the
State to prevent monopoly of forms of communications, airwaves etc.
The other circumstance where the State plays a role, through its judicial
arm, is in the regulation of content in certain limited circumstances.
Freedom of expression is not an absolute right and it can be restricted to
protect the rights of others for example by prohibiting speech that incites
violence or hatred against a particular racial group; to protect children
from sexual exploitation or to protect the reputation of individuals from
false accusations etc. But only be legislation. 64. This debate in India has been won by the latter viewpoint
evidenced by the fact that the print as also the broadcast media and the
third form of mass communication i.e. cinema has been regulated by
legislation. 65. Under self-regulation the media voluntarily commits to uphold a
code of ethics that it itself drafts. It establishes a complaints mechanism,
often called a media council or complaints commission, to which the
public can complain about perceived breaches of the code. The
independent council adjudicates on the complaints and decides upon
appropriate remedies. The courts play no role in enforcing the code of
practice. Compliance with the code is voluntary and the media does so
out of a desire to secure the credibility of its profession and the trust of
the public. Self regulation is combination of standards setting out the WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 34 of 38 appropriate codes of behaviour for the media that are necessary to support
freedom of expression, and process how those behaviours will be
monitored or held to account. But as observed by us in para 4 above,
ethics itself is a complex and controversial subject due to society not
being homogeneous. 66. Some of the Advantages of self regulations could be : 67. Some of the Disadvantages of promoting self-regulation of media
could be : 68. Self regulation therefore is not a simple matter; it places
requirements upon every level of the media organization, on the journalist
themselves, on their editors and managers, on the approach of the media
organization to the production of content and the overall behaviour of the
media company. 69. Even media personnel can be heard crying that the taint of money
has polluted the clear stream of reason which should dictate the
conscience of mass media. In the print media, paid news has already
started sullying the stream of news. Similarly, the desperate rush to grab
eyeballs due to higher revenue earned if viewership is more has led the
broadcast media to sully itself with sensationalization by adding colour
and spice to events. Transgression of individual privacy and the rush to
produce programmes which may be tainted but attract viewership has
been witnessed in the past. 70. Thus, as we find in the United Kingdom and as we find pertaining
to cinema and print media, there is no reason why the legislature does not
put in place a statutory, regulatory body, and taking cue from The
Cinematograph Act 1952 and The Press Council Act 1978 legislate to
have a statutory Board comprising men and women of eminence in the
field of Law, Science, Art and Culture, Literature, History and Social
Sciences. 71. Since broadcast has been regulated by The Cable Television
Networks (Regulation) Act 1995 and The Cable Television Network
Rules 1994 and there exists a Programme Code as also an Advertising
Code, violation whereof entails action under Section 16 , 17 , 19 and 20 of
The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995, finding no
statutory regulatory body constituted, meaning thereby, as per the extant
law the duty would fall on the executive to ensure that the mandate of the
legislation is complied with, a situation which would be an anathema in a
democratic set up inasmuch as it would put broadcast under the direct
control of the state, we recommend that a statutory regulatory body be
constituted consisting of men and women of eminence. Security of
tenure of a kind should be provided for the Members of the Board so that
they are free from Government interference. 72. Till said happens, since the law as it stands today has to be
enforced, taking on record the stand of Union of India that as a stop gap
mechanism the self-regulatory body formed by the Indian Broadcasting
Foundation named 'Broadcasting Consumers Complaint Committee' is
recognized by the Union of India as a body competent to take cognizance
of and decide complaints pertaining to violation of the law by
broadcasters, but since decisions by said committee would lack the legal
foundation to take action i.e. the non statutory committee cannot direct a
particular kind of action to be taken or an order passed; its decisions shall
be treated by the Union of India as the foundation to take appropriate
action and pass necessary directions as also orders against the offender. 73. We do not comment upon the merits of the arguments advanced by
learned counsel for the petitioner and learned senior counsel for
respondent No.3 which we have noted in paragraph 16 and 32 above
pertaining to the alleged 3rd and the 4th violation, as per Annexure R-1/6 WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 37 of 38 and the one allegedly found by BCCC for the reason a final decision was
not taken by either the executive or BCCC on account of the reason both
felt that the instant writ petition being pending in this Court they should
not proceed to pass final directions. We therefore direct the Union of
India and BCCC to pass final directions with respect to the said two
alleged violations; Union of India would take the decision with respect to
the first of the two violations and BCCC shall pass an order with respect
to its opinion, which order would be taken to its logical conclusion by the
Union of India. 74. We place on record a word of appreciation for Mr.Rahul Mehra
learned counsel who appeared for the petitioner pro-bono for arguing the
writ petition detaching himself from the one sided projection of a stand
pleading in a writ petition and assisting us by presenting a correct
overview of the intricate and delicate subject with which we have dealt
with. Likewise we acknowledge the measured response by Shri Ashok
Desai learned senior counsel who appeared for respondent No.3. 75. Parties shall bear their own costs. (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG)
 JUDGE

 (PRATIBHA RANI)
 JUDGE
APRIL 09, 2013
rk/mm/dk WP(C) No.1200/2011 Page 38 of 38