GITA MITTAL, J. 1. The writ petition challenges the notification dated 17th

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 1
 October, 2011 issued by the Lieutenant Governor, National Capital
Territory of Delhi in exercise of powers under Section 127 of the
Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003 giving a one time exemption
with regard to the self draw conducted by the 26 societies including
the Naval Technical Officers CGHS Ltd. (which appears at Sl.
No.16 of the said notification); from applicability of Section 77 (1) of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003. 2. This writ petition can be disposed of on the preliminary
objection with regard to locus of petitioner to invoke the writ
jurisdiction in the present case. This writ petition was filed on 23rd
December, 2011 by the Naval Technical Officers, Cooperative
Group Housing Society Ltd. as petitioner No.1. The society was
arrayed as suing through „President - Shri Manohar Lal‟. Shri
Surender Singh was arrayed as petitioner No.2. 3. It is noteworthy that when the writ petition was listed for the
first time on 24th of January, 2012, the respondent no.1 had raised
an objection to the locus of Shri Mahnohar Lal to file the petition
on behalf of the society. It was disclosed that the Naval Technical
Officers CGHS Society Ltd. was working under an Administrator
and therefore a person claiming to be the President of the society
could not file a writ petition on behalf of the society. In this
background, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners
had stated that Shri Manohar Lal has been arrayed in person as
petitioner No.1 and Shri Surinder Singh had filed the writ petition
as petitioner No.2. 4. The society was directed to be impleaded/transposed as the

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 2
 respondent No.4 while the Commissioner of Police was directed to
be deleted from the array of parties. An amended memo of parties
in terms of the order dated 24th of January, 2012 stands filed on
record. 5. It is noteworthy that though the writ petitioner made several
prayers on 24th of January, 2012, the petitioner confined the
challenge in the writ petition to the first prayer that is the quashing
of the order/notification dated 17th October, 2011 whereby the one
time exemption etc. was given. 6. Mr. Sanjay Poddar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
respondent No.4 society submits during the pendency of the writ
petition, elections to the managing committee of the respondent
No.4 society were held and as such a duly elected managing
committee is looking after the affairs of the society since
December, 2012. The submission is that Shri Manohar Lal was not
a member of the respondent No.4 society at any point of time and
that he had not made payment of any amount to the society. 7. So far as Shri Surender Singh is concerned, the submission is
that he stood removed from the membership of the society and the
resolution of the society removing him from the membership of
the society stands duly approved by an order passed on 17th
October, 1997 dispatched on 18th November, 1998. This document
has been placed before us. It appears that Shri Surender Singh was
one of 48 defaulter members who were expelled from the
membership of the society. His expulsion stands approved as per
the order dated 17th October, 1998. The submission is that neither

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 3
 Shri Manohar Lal nor Shri Surender Singh were members of the
society on 17th October, 2011 when the notification was issued. It
is further contended that therefore it is not open to either Shri
Manohar Lal or Shri Surender Singh to maintain any challenge qua
the working of the affairs of the respondent No.4 society. Learned counsel for the petitioner is unable to point out any
document to support the membership of Shri Manohar Lal. The
order dated 17th October, 1998 affirming the expulsion of Shri
Surender Singh has also not been assailed before any forum and
has attained finality. Hence clearly neither Shri Manohar Lal nor
Shri Surender Singh have locus to file the present writ petition. 8. Mr. B.S. Randhawa, Advocate appearing for the petitioners
would seek to place a challenge in these proceedings to the order
dated 17th October, 1998 whereby the expulsion of Surender Singh
from the membership of the society was approved. We may also
note that apart from the general prayer made in Sr.No.(b) of the
prayer clause, the petitioner has not pleaded any ground of
challenge to the order dated 17th October, 1998 nor placed a copy
thereof with the writ petition. It is the society which has placed the
copy thereof on record with its counter affidavit. In any case, so
far as this challenge is concerned, the petitioner had an efficacious
alternative statutory remedy of revision available to him under Section 112 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act which he ought
to have availed if he was assigned thereby. The challenge pressed
at this stage before us by Mr. Randhawa is involving disputed
question of facts and the present writ petition is certainly not the

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 4
 appropriate remedy to go into this question. 9. It is apparent that this writ petition could have been
dismissed on the short ground that the petitioners are not the
members of the society and have no locus standi to bring or to
maintain the petition. We would have disposed of the writ petition
on this short technical ground. But we cannot do so in view of the
order dated 24th of January, 2012 recorded in this writ petition. 10. The writ petitioners have assailed the notification dated 17th
October, 2011 issued by the Lt. Governor of Delhi in exercise of
powers conferred by Section 127 of Delhi Cooperative Societies
Act, 2003 giving the one-time exemption from the rigours of Section 77(1) of the said Act and regularising the self-draw
conducted by the 26 cooperative housing societies which have been
named in the notification. In addition, the Lt. Governor has been
pleased to direct the manner in which the regularization would be
effected. Given the nature of the challenge, this court while issuing
notice to the respondents on the 24th of January 2012 had noted the
opposition of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies to the self-
draw conducted in various societies. This court had taken a prima
facie view that the grant of the exemption may not be permissible
inasmuch as the will of the Parliament, while enacting Section 77 of the Act, should not be diluted and that in case such allotment
pursuant to the self-draw was finally recognized, there was a
possibility of third party interest being created. In this background,
pending consideration of the respondents‟ response, this court had
directed maintenance of the position as on the 24th of January 2012

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 5
 permitting the application submitted by the society to be processed,
but without permitting the RCS to finally recognise the allotment
made in pursuance to the self-draw. The issue raised is of
importance and has far reaching consequences. 11. We are informed by Mr. V.K. Tandon, learned counsel
representing the respondent no.1 that as a result, the process of
scrutiny and acceptance of the allotment qua 26 societies, in
accordance with the notification dated 17th October, 2011 has been
halted. For this reason, having regard to the importance of the
issues flagged by the court and noted in the order dated 24 th
January, 2012 and also the fact that counsel for the parties
(petitioners‟ counsel as well) on both sides have made extensive
submissions on the merits of the challenge, we are adjudicating on
the issues noted and pointed out by this court in the order dated 24th
of January, 2012. 12. The legislative assembly for the National Capital Territory of
Delhi enacted Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003 inter alia with
the object of consolidating and amending laws relating to the
cooperative societies, to facilitate voluntary formation and
democratic functioning of co-operatives as people‟s institutions
based on self-help and mutual aid to enable them to promote their
economic and social betterment and to provide for regulation,
management, functional autonomy of such societies. In exercise of
the powers under Section 137 , the Delhi Cooperative Societies
Rules were also notified. The statutory provisions came to be
amended in the year 2000 which amendments took effect from 1 st

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 6
 April, 2004, whereafter the Rules under the enactment were also
amended which took effect from 19th October, 2007. 13. The Naval Technical Officers Group Housing Society Ltd.
stands constituted and registered as a cooperative group housing
society in accordance with the provisions of the Delhi Cooperative
Societies Act, 1972 . There is no dispute with regard to the
registration of the respondent no.4 society. 14. It appears that the respondent no.4 society was allotted a plot
of land admeasuring 160000 sqr.mtrs. by the Delhi Development
Authority on the recommendations made by the respondent no.1.
As per the counter affidavit of the respondent no.4, it had an
approved list of 238 members who contributed their share in the
cost of the land as well as their pro-rata shares in the construction
of 238 flats effected by the society through a contractor. The
submission is that an amount of over Rs.30 crores has been paid by
the respondent no.4 from funds made available by the members to
the contractor. It is necessary to note that the members of the
society, amongst others, include retired and serving officers of the
central government. These members made the contribution
towards land cost and construction by availing loans from various
sources, for which they obviously had to pay interest. 15. An Administrator had been appointed under Section 87 of
the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act to manage the affairs of
respondent no.4. The counter affidavit which was filed on behalf
of the society by the Administrator encloses a list of members as on
31st March, 2011 as well as their contributions to the funds of the

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 7
 society. 16. The list placed before this court would show that these
members have paid between Rs.14 lakhs and Rs.45 lakhs from the
year 2000 to 2011 towards the construction of the flats. It is also
on record that the construction of the flats was completed and the
flats were ready for occupancy in the year 2005. 17. Before allotment of the flats could be effected, it appears that
in the year 2004, a writ petition bearing W.P.(C)No.10066/2004
entitled Yogi Raj Krishna Cooperative Group Housing Society
Ltd. v. Delhi Development Authority & Anr. was filed in this
court. On examination of this petition, a Division Bench of this
court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to register a case
and conduct an investigation into the affairs in the office of the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies pertaining to an alleged scam
whereby builders and architects had illegally managed registration
of societies with either fake membership or their friends and
relatives lending names to complete the membership to enable
registration. These builders financed the amounts which had to be
paid to the DDA by way of premium for allocation of lands by the
DDA to group housing societies. After the land was allotted,
membership of these societies was sold at hefty premiums by
completing records through spurious resignations of name lenders
or fictitious members. As a result, valuable land was got allotted
from the DDA at the special rates notified by the central
government for group housing societies by unscrupulous builders
and architects. In this writ petition, the court stayed allotment of

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 8
 flats of the cooperative societies whose affairs had to be
investigated. Determination had to be effected with regard to the
genuineness of the societies. 18. So far as the instant society was concerned, the CBI found
that there was no defect in the registration of the society and that its
membership was genuine. It was also ascertained that the finances
for construction had been provided by duly enrolled members. 19. We are informed that because of these reasons, in addition to
the respondent no.4 society, there were 25 other similarly situated
cooperative societies whose members continued to suffer because
of the non-allotment of the duly constructed flats on land which
was allotted to the societies which allotment had been found to be
genuine. 20. It appears that documents for verification of the genuineness
of members as well as approval of the membership of the
respondent no. 4-society were forwarded to the Registrar of
Cooperative Societies vide letter dated 15th September, 2006. 21. It is submitted by Mr. Sanjay Poddar, learned Senior
Counsel for the respondent no.4 that the members of these societies
were heading towards financial crisis, many of them being retired
government officials who were subsisting on paltry pensions and
were being compelled to pay not only the interest towards loans
taken by them to pay towards the land allotted to the society and
construction of the flats, but also had to bear monthly rentals for
accommodation. Penalties by way of penal and overdue interest
were also accumulating and being levied upon these members and

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 9
 the situation was assuming desperate proportions. In these
circumstances, in a general body meeting of the respondent no.4
society held on 10th January, 2010, pursuant to a unanimous
decision, a self-draw of lots was conducted for allocation of the
constructed flats amongst the 238 enrolled members. It is an admitted position before us that pursuant to the self-
draw, members took possession of the flats drawn by them in the
self-draw held by the society. 22. Similar draw of lots were conducted by the 25 other societies
whose registration and membership had been ascertained as
genuine by the DDA. 23. We are informed by Mr. V.K. Tandon, learned counsel
appearing for the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, that various
representations had been made to the Government of NCT of Delhi
with regard to the delays in allotment of flats in cooperative
housing societies. For this reason, deliberations were conducted by
the Government of NCT of Delhi and all aspects of the matter
including the hardship to the members; the status of the
investigation in various cases by the CBI; the directions of this
court in W.P.(C)No.10066/2004 were considered. Given the
urgency placed before it, the Government of NCT of Delhi
constituted a committee consisting of two members namely, Shri
K.K. Mathur, Former Chief Secretary, Government of NCT of
Delhi and Shri Y.D. Venkata, IAS (Retd.) with the following terms
of reference : 24. Referring to the Order No.F 47/RCS/Policy/152/2011/164-
175 dated 30th March, 2011 of the Government of NCT of Delhi,
this Committee submitted a report dated 10th June, 2011 giving
detailed recommendations after a close examination of every aspect
of the construction and functioning of the group housing
cooperative societies in Delhi as well as of the Office of the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies. 25. It was after confabulation with the concerned departments
and consultations at the highest level, that a decision was taken by
the Lt. Governor on the 31st May, 2011 directing that, societies,
who had conducted the self-draw, may be considered for
regularization by the DDA if the members of the societies were

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 11
 unanimous in the decision taken and also fairness of the self-draw
was transparent as well as affidavits stood given by the members
and the secretary of the societies to the effect that they had no
objection either to the manner or the outcome of the self-draw. 26. It appears that the matter did not end here and the issue was
again raised by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies. By an order
passed on 20th September, 2011, the Lt. Governor had observed
that so far as conducting the self-draw of lots was concerned, it was
merely a procedural irregularity, and therefore, the
recommendations of the Shri K.K. Mathur Committee regarding
imposition of charges for the same in money terms may be
followed. The consideration shows that the Lt. Governor was
conscious of the statutory power conferred under Section 127 of
the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003 to exempt the
applicability of any provision of the enactment through cooperative
society. It is this power which was exercised in granting the one
time exemption. This consideration and the directions came to be
notified formally by the impugned notification dated 17th October,
2011 which reads as follows : (Underlining by us) 27. We are informed that pursuant to the said notification, the
Office of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies had called upon
the 26 societies to submit the required documentation as a one time
exemption. 28. This notification stands challenged by way of the present
writ petition resulting in the observations noted by the court on 24 th
January, 2012. At first blush, there appears to be substance in the
observations of this court to the effect that prohibition under Section 77 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003 is absolute
and no exemption thereto ought to be permissible, given the fact
that it takes effect to ensure fair allocation of property in a
cooperative group housing society and is in keeping with the spirit,
object and intendment of the Act. Of course the requirements of
fairness in the allocation of the properties of the cooperative
societies cannot be diluted, no matter what the situation may be.
However, the situation and the background facts in which the self-
draw came to be conducted and was put to effect in the instant case
arise in a peculiar situation. 29. We have heard learned counsel for the parties on the various
submissions made on the issue which we are considering in this
factual background and are evaluating the legality and fairness of
the notification dated 17th October, 2011 to ensure the highest

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 14
 standards of transparency and equality. 30. Let us first and foremost examine the scope of Section 127 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003. This is best stated in
the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at ( 1980) 1 SCC
340 The Registrar of Cooperative Societies Trivandrum & Anr. v.
K. Kunjabmu & Ors. The Supreme Court was considering the
vires of Section 60 of the Madras Cooperative Societies Act, 1932
which is pari materia to Section 127 of the Delhi enactment. While
considering the vires of the statutory provision, the Supreme Court
also delineated the scope and policy of the aforesaid statutory
provisions in paras 11 and 12 which deserve to be considered in
extenso and read thus :- 12. The policy of the Act is there and so are the
 guidelines. Why the legislation? "To facilitate the
 formation and working of Cooperative Societies".
 Cooperative Societies, for what purpose ? "For the

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 15
 promotion of thrift, self-help and mutual aid".
 Amongst whom ? "Among agriculturists and other
 persons with common economic needs". To what end ? (Emphasis above)

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 16 31. We have noted above the spirit, object and purpose of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act . It cannot be disputed that the
power under Section 127 can be exercised only for furtherance of
the purposes of the Act and for none other. The challenge as made
to the action of the Lieutenant Governor in the present case has to
bear scrutiny from this aspect alone. 32. It appears that the exercise of power by the Lt. Governor
under Section 127 of the Act exempting the applicability of the
provision of the statute had not arisen in 2010/2011 for the first
time. The respondents have placed before us an office order issued
by the DDA dated 2nd February, 1996 in this regard whereby the
Commissioner (Housing) notified the policy laid down by the Vice
Chairman, Delhi Development Authority to regularise/confirm
self-draw of lots conducted by a few cooperative group housing
societies for allotment of flats to their members on their own, in
violation of the prohibition under the RCS norms/directives. As
per this decision, the DDA had laid down the policy to
regularize/confirm such draws subject to the following conditions: It is an admitted position that above order was duly
implemented. The grant of the exemption by the Lieutenant
Governor is not by itself assailable without anything more. 33. The question of the legality of the allotments by self-draws
has also been raised before this court on several prior occasions.
Reliance is placed before us on the case of Dr. Zakir Hussain
Cooperative Group Housing Society Ltd. (W.P.(C) No.1203/2010)
wherein a similar self-draw had been regularized by the Lt.
Governor of Delhi. We may extract the relevant portion of the
order of this court dated 21st May, 2010 in W.P.(C) No.1203/2010
in Dr. Zakir Hussain Cooperative Group Housing Society Ltd. (supra) in this regard which reads as follows : 34. In the case of yet another society namely, Nehru
Cooperative Group Housing Society, the respondents were
objecting to the enrolment of members in violation of the Rule
24(2) of the Delhi Cooperative Housing Society Rules. These
persons filed W.P.(C)No.494/2011. On the 9th of May, 2011, the
petitioners conceded that they would be satisfied if the case was
considered within the established parameters for regularization of
membership and their agreement was recorded that they would file
fresh applications with all requisite documents for regularization of
membership within two weeks from the date of the order. We may
note that this regularization of membership was in terms of the
notification dated 31st July, 2008 permitting the same for
regularization of members who had been enrolled in contravention
of Rule 21(2) of the Rules. 35. Learned senior counsel for the respondent no. 4 has placed
yet another instance to the exercise of the power to exempt
application of the provisions of the Delhi Cooperative Societies
Act to a particular society. It is pointed out that Section 88 of the
Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 1972 was in pari materia to Section 12 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003. The

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 19
 Lieutenant Governor of Delhi had opportunity to exercise the
power conferred upon him by Section 88 of the then extant
enactment to the effect that Section 12 of the Delhi Cooperative
Societies Act would not apply to the Rehabilitation Ministry
Employees Cooperative House Building Society Limited. Disputes
with regard to this order were taken to the court. While the matter
was sub-judice before the Supreme Court of India, the Lieutenant
Governor appears to have issued yet another order dated 29th
August, 1990 rescinding the earlier order. 36. By virtue of the exemption under Section 88 , it had been
directed that the condition with regard to a member of a society
being a resident of Delhi would stand relaxed in favour of those
persons who were employees of the Ministry and had been posted
outside Delhi who had the intention to settle in Delhi after
retirement. Such persons who intended to settle in Delhi thus could
not be barred from membership of a society. In order to comply
with the benefit of this order of the Lieutenant Governor, the bye-
laws of the society were permitted to be amended by the Registrar
of Cooperative Societies after statutory compliance. Upon
considering the challenge in the judgment reported at (1991) 4 SCC
485, H.C. Suman & Anr. v. Rehabilitation Ministry Employees'
Cooperative House Building Society Ltd., New Delhi & Ors., the
Supreme Court noted that the order granting the exemption from
the operation of Section 12 was for the benefit of the members of
the society and in furtherance of the object of the Act. It was held
that the grant of exemption to the society from the operation of

W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 20 Section 12 was not ultra vires the statutory provision.
Consequently, the order dated 27th October, 1987 was upheld while
the order rescinding the same dated 29th August, 1990 was
quashed. It thus needs no further elaboration that if the order of
exemption under Section 127 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies
Act, 1972 is intended for the benefit of the society and is in
furtherance of the statutory aims and objects, the Lieutenant
Governor is justified in exercising his power to do so by virtue of Section 127 of the Act. 37. It needs no elaboration that it is impossible for even the
legislature to contemplate every possible factual situation which
could arise in the functioning of societies. It has been noted in the
judicial pronouncements set out above that to rigor an application
of some of the provisions of the enactment may itself result in
frustrating the very objectives of the statute instead of advancing
them. For this reason, the government is vested with the power to
relax the rigors of the application of particular statutory provisions
which power has to be exercised only to advance the spirit
intendment and purpose of the statute. 38. Mr. Sanjay Poddar, learned senior counsel appearing for the
respondent no. 4 has drawn our attention to certain writ petitions
wherein similar problems faced by other societies had arisen and
relaxation from the operation of Rule 90 of the Delhi Cooperative
Societies Rules, 2007 was approved. Amongst others, the learned
senior counsel has drawn our attention to the following orders :- W.P.(C)No.519/2012 pg. 21
 "1. Order dated 18th August, 2010 in W.P.(C) No.
 5619/2010 (page 183) 2. Order dated 9th September, 2010 in W.P.(C)
 No.5164/2010 (page 185) 3. Order dated 10th March, 2011 in W.P.(C) No.
 1463/2011 (page 188) 4. Order dated 21st April, 2011 in W.P.(C) No.1654/2011
 (page 193)"