R.F. Nariman, J. 1. These two appeals being Civil Appeal No. 5145 of 2016 by Avitel Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by INDU MARWAH Date: 2020.08.19 16:25:13 IST Reason: Post Studioz Ltd. [“Avitel India”] and its promoters [the “Jain family”], 1 and the cross appeal being Civil Appeal No. 5158 of 2016 by HSBC PL

Holdings (Mauritius) Ltd. [“HSBC”], impugn the interlocutory judgment

and order passed in the appeal under section 9 of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 [“1996 Act”] dated 31.07.2014. To dispose of the

said appeals, we refer to the facts in Civil Appeal No. 5145 of 2016. The

brief facts necessary to appreciate the controversy that arises in the

present case are as follows: 16.1.5. If within 14 days of a request from the other party to
do so, a party fails to nominate an arbitrator, or if the two (2)
arbitrators fail to nominate the third arbitrator within 14 days
after the confirmation of the appointment of the second
arbitrator, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a
party, by the SIAC council in accordance with the Rules.
16.1.6. The parties waive any right to apply to any court of
law and/or other judicial authority to determine any
preliminary point of law and/or review any question of law
and/or the merits, insofar as such waiver may be validly
made. The parties shall not be deemed, however, to have
waived any right to challenge any award on the ground that
the tribunal lacked substantive jurisdiction and/or the ground
of serious irregularity affecting the tribunal, the proceedings
or the award to the extent allowed by the law of the seat of
the arbitration. 16.1.7. Nothing in this Clause 16.1 shall be construed as
preventing any party from seeking conservatory or interim
relief in any court of competent jurisdiction.
16.1.8. Any award of the arbitration tribunal shall be made in
writing and shall be final and binding on the parties from the
day it is made and the parties agree to be bound thereby
and to act accordingly. The parties undertake to carry out the
award without delay. 3 16.1.9. During the conduct of any arbitration proceedings
 pursuant to this Clause 16.1, this Agreement shall remain in
 full force and effect in all respects except for the matter
 under arbitration and the parties shall continue to perform
 their obligations hereunder, except for those obligations
 involved in the matter under dispute, and to exercise their
 rights hereunder. 16.2. Costs
 The costs and expenses of the arbitration, including the fees
 of the arbitration and the Arbitration Tribunal, shall be borne
 equally by each Party to the dispute or claim and each Party
 shall pay its own fees, disbursements and other charges of
 its counsel, except as may be determined by the Arbitration
 Tribunal. The Arbitration Tribunal would have the power to
 award interest on any sum awarded pursuant to the
 arbitration proceedings and such sum would carry interest, if
 awarded, until the actual payment of such amounts.
 16.3. Final and Binding
 It is agreed by the Parties that any award made by the
 Arbitration Tribunal shall be final and binding on each of the
 Parties that were parties to the dispute. 16.4. Application of Arbitration Act
 Save for section 9 , Part 1 of the Indian Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 (the “ Arbitration Act ”), the provisions of
 Part 1 of the Arbitration Act shall not apply to the terms of
 this Agreement.” (ii) On 06.05.2011, the aforesaid parties entered into a Shareholders’

Agreement [“SHA”] which defined the relationship between the parties

after the SSA dated 21.04.2011 had been entered into. The SHA also

contained an arbitration clause which was identical to the arbitration

clause contained in the SSA. It is the case of HSBC that a

representation had been made by Appellants No. 2-4 (the Jain family) 4 that the Appellants were at a very advanced stage of finalising a contract

with the British Broadcasting Corporation [“BBC”] to convert the BBC’s

film library from 2D to 3D. This contract was expected to generate a

revenue of USD 300 million in the first phase, and ultimately over USD 1

billion. It is the further case of HSBC that this investment of USD 60

million was required by Avitel India to purchase equipment for Avitel Post

Studioz FZ LLC [“Avitel Dubai”] to service the BBC contract (Avitel

Dubai is a 100% subsidiary of Avitel Holdings Ltd., Mauritius [“Avitel

Mauritius”], which, in turn, is a 100% subsidiary of Avitel India. Avitel

India, Avitel Mauritius, and Avitel Dubai are collectively referred to as the

“Avitel Group”). (iii) In early April 2012, HSBC grew suspicious about the Avitel Group’s

business of digitising films and Ernst & Young and KPMG Dubai were

appointed to inquire into and return findings as to the business activities

of the Avitel Group. It is the further case of HSBC that they discovered,

thanks to certain preliminary findings of Ernst & Young and KPMG

Dubai, inter alia, that the purported BBC contract was non-existent and

was set up by the Appellants to induce HSBC into investing the

aforesaid money of USD 60 million in the shares of Appellant No. 1. It is

also HSBC’s case that though Avitel Dubai received the entire

investment proceeds of USD 60 million on or about 10.05.2011, it 5 appeared that around USD 51 million were not used to purchase any

equipment to service the BBC contract, but appeared to have been

siphoned off to companies in which the Jain family had a stake. (iv) As disputes arose between the parties, on 11.05.2012, notices of

arbitration were issued by HSBC to the Singapore International

Arbitration Centre [“SIAC”] to commence arbitral proceedings. On

14.05.2012, the SIAC appointed Mr. Thio Shen Yi, SC, as an Emergency

Arbitrator pursuant to an application dated 11.05.2012. On 17.05.2012,

the Appellants’ challenge to the appointment of the Emergency Arbitrator

was considered by the SIAC and rejected. On 25.05.2012, the

Appellants filed their response to the notices of arbitration. (v) The Emergency Arbitrator then passed two Interim Awards dated

28.05.2012 and 29.05.2012, in the SSA and the SHA, respectively, in

favour of HSBC, directing the Appellants and Avitel Dubai to refrain from

disposing of or dealing with or diminishing the value of their assets up to

USD 50 million, and permitting HSBC to deliver a copy of the Interim

Awards to financial institutions in India and the UAE with which any of

the Appellants hold or may hold or be signatory to accounts, together

with a request that the financial institutions freeze such accounts

consistent with the Interim Awards. On 27.07.2012, the Emergency

Arbitrator made an amendment to Interim Awards dated 28.05.2012 and 6 29.05.2012 passed in the SSA and the SHA, respectively, granting

further relief to HSBC by, inter alia, directing the Appellants and Avitel

Dubai to cease and desist from prohibiting or inhibiting Ernst & Young

and KPMG Dubai from conducting investigations into the financial affairs

of Avitel Dubai and Avitel Mauritius. (vi) On 30.07.2012, HSBC filed Arbitration Petition No. 1062 of 2012

under section 9 of the 1996 Act in the Bombay High Court, inter alia

seeking directions to call upon the Appellants to deposit a security

amount to the extent of HSBC’s claim in the arbitration proceedings that

had begun under both the SSA and the SHA. (vii) On 03.08.2012, a learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court

passed an interim order under the section 9 petition, inter alia directing

the Corporation Bank to allow the Appellants to withdraw a sum of INR 1

crore from their account on or before 09.08.2012, but not to allow any

further withdrawals until further orders, till which time, the account was to

remain frozen. (viii) Meanwhile, the Appellants challenged the jurisdiction of the three-

member Arbitral Tribunal comprising of Mr. Christopher Lau, SC as its

Chairman, and Dr. Michael C. Pryles and Justice (Retd.) Ferdino I.

Rebello as co-arbitrators [“Arbitral Tribunal”] set up under the auspices 7 of the SIAC. On 25.09.2012, the Arbitral Tribunal decided that this would

be decided as a preliminary issue. On 17.12.2012, the Arbitral Tribunal

passed a unanimous “final partial award on jurisdiction”, dismissing the

jurisdictional challenge, and stating that since Singapore law governs the

arbitration agreement, allegations of fraud and complicated issues

relating to facts are arbitrable. (ix) Meanwhile, in the section 9 petition pending before the Bombay

High Court, an order was passed by a learned Single Judge dated

22.01.2014, in which the Appellants were directed to deposit any

shortfall in their account with the Corporation Bank so as to maintain a

balance of USD 60 million. The learned Single Judge gave prima facie

findings that the seat of arbitration was at Singapore and that the

arbitration agreement was governed by Singapore law; hence,

arbitrability of the dispute at hand would be governed by Singapore law.

It held that the unanimous “final partial award on jurisdiction” dated

17.12.2012, delivered by the Arbitral Tribunal in Singapore, upholding

the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to proceed, had not been

challenged in Singapore by the Appellants, and further held that this

being the case, since HSBC has a good chance of success in the final

arbitral proceedings, the aforesaid order to deposit the shortfall in the

account so as to maintain a balance of USD 60 million was passed. 8 (x) An appeal against the order of the learned Single Judge was

disposed of by the impugned judgment and order of the Division Bench

dated 31.07.2014, returning a prima facie finding that since Singapore

law governs the arbitration agreement, there was no need to interfere

with the findings of the learned Single Judge in this respect. Further, it

was held that there is no estoppel in filing the present proceeding

despite the Emergency Awards being passed in Singapore as the section 9 petition could be maintained on a plain reading of the

arbitration agreement itself. It was further held that an issue of fraud in

the context of sections 17 and 18 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872

[“ Contract Act ”] referred to want of free consent, and was a well-

accepted ground that would vitiate the contract, rendering it voidable.

After referring to various judgments of this Court, it was held that there

was a distinction between the “suitability” and “arbitrability” of disputes,

and on the facts of the present case, it could not be said that the dispute

was not arbitrable because of an allegation of fraud made by HSBC.

After then referring to the claim statement of HSBC before the Arbitral

Tribunal at Singapore, it was held that the allegations of fraud and

misrepresentation were primarily in the context of “fraud” and

“misrepresentation” as defined in sections 17 and 18 of the Contract Act,

thus establishing a civil profile of the disputes that had arisen between 9 the parties. However, after referring to certain judgments on interim

mandatory injunctions, the High Court prima facie found that HSBC had

carried out due diligence by engaging leading agencies like Ernst &

Young and Clifford Chance. Also, it was held that the measure of

damages that may ultimately be awarded may not be the amount of loss

ultimately sustained by HSBC, but can at best be the difference between

the price paid by HSBC in acquiring Avitel India’s shares and the price

HSBC would have received had it resold the said shares in the market.

This being the case, and an interim mandatory injunction being in the

nature of equitable relief, the Division Bench was of the opinion that the

interest of justice would be served if the Appellants are directed to

deposit an additional amount equivalent to USD 20 million in its

Corporation Bank account, so that the total deposit in the said account is

maintained at half the said figure of USD 60 million, i.e., at USD 30

million. The appeal against the order dated 22.01.2014 was therefore

partly allowed. (xi) By a Final Award in the SSA dated 27.09.2014 [“Foreign Final

Award”], the Arbitral Tribunal held as follows: f. the Avitel Group's key customers Kinden,
 SPAC and Purple Passion as well as Avitel
 Dubai's key supplier, Digital Fusion, and key
 service provider, Highend, were all independent
 and legitimate companies; g. the representations and warranties contained
 in Clauses 6.1 and 6.2 of the SSA and in Clauses
 7.1, 7.3, 7.5 , 8, 10 and 11 of Schedule 3 of the
 SSA to be true, complete, accurate and not
 misleading; 21.3 Finds that the Respondents made the representations
and/or warranties in order to induce the Claimant to invest in
the First Respondent; 21.4 Finds that the Claimant did rely on the representations
and/or warranties in making its investment in the First
Respondent; 21.5 Finds that the representations and/or warranties
referred to in paragraph 21.2 (a) to (g) above were false
and/or misleading; 21.6 Finds that the Respondents made the representations
and/or warranties referred to in paragraph 21.2 (a) to (g) 11 above knowing that these were false and/or without belief in
their truth; 21.7 Finds that the Respondents are jointly and severally
liable to the Claimant in tort for deceit; 21.8 Finds that the Respondents are jointly and severally
liable to the Claimant for fraudulent misrepresentation under
the Contract Act ; 21.9 Finds that the Respondents are jointly and severally
liable to the Claimant for breach of warranty; 21.10 Finds that the Second, Third and Fourth Respondents
are to jointly and severally indemnify the Claimant for the
loss of its investment in the amount of USD 60 million as well
as for the costs of and associated with this arbitration and
associated court actions; 21.11 Finds that the Claimant in respect of its claim for
fraudulent misrepresentation and its claim in tort for deceit is
entitled to damages in the total amount of USD 60 million;
21.12 Finds that the Claimant is entitled to interest on the
sum of USD 60 million from 6 May 2011 to the date of this
Final Award at the rate of 4.25 % per annum; 21.13 Finds that the Claimant is entitled to its legal and other
costs as well as the costs of the arbitration in the total
amount of SGD 827,615.67 comprising of the following: 21.14 Finds that upon the Respondents’ paying in full and
unconditionally the sums awarded to the Claimant in
paragraphs 21.15, 21.16, 21.18, 21.19 below, the Claimant's
Preference Subscription Shares and Equity Subscription
Shares (as defined in the SSA) in Avitel India are to be
cancelled forthwith; 21.15 Awards to the Claimant and Orders the Respondents
to pay damages in the amount of USD 60 million in respect
of which award the First, Second, Third and Fourth
Respondents are jointly and severally liable; 12 21.16 Awards to the Claimant and Orders the Respondents
to pay interest on the sum of USD 60 million from 6 May
2011 to the date of this Final Award at the rate of 4.25% per
annum in respect of which award the First, Second, Third
and Fourth Respondents are jointly and severally liable;
21.17 Orders in terms identical to the orders in the Interim
Award (as amended by the Addendum and Amendment to
Interim Award dated 15 June 2012 and by the Amendment to
Interim Award dated 27 July 2012), which orders are to
remain in force up to and including the date on which the
Respondents comply with all other orders in this Final Award;
21.18 Awards to the Claimant and Orders the Respondents
to pay the Claimant's legal and other costs amounting to
USD 1,652,890.14 in respect of which award the First,
Second, Third and Fourth Respondents are jointly and
severally liable; 21.19 Awards to the Claimant and Orders the Respondents
to pay all the costs of this arbitration in the total amount of
SGD 827,615.67 as follows: 21.20 Declares the Second, Third and Fourth Respondents
jointly and severally liable to indemnify the Claimant for the
loss of its investment in the amount of USD 60 million
together with interest thereon for the period and at the rate
specified in paragraph 21.16 hereinabove and the Claimant's
legal costs, related expenses as well as the costs of this
arbitration as specified in paragraph 21.19 hereinabove;
21.21 Declares and Orders that upon the Respondents’
paying in full and unconditionally the sums awarded to the
Claimant in paragraphs 21.15, 21.16, 21.18, 21.19
hereinabove and all costs arising out of and incidental to the
cancellation of the Claimant's Preference Subscription
Shares and Equity Subscription Shares (as defined in the
SSA) in Avitel India, that the said shares be cancelled and
that in this regard, the Parties take the requisite steps to 13 effect the said cancellation within 30 days of receipt of such
 payment.”

Initially, this Foreign Final Award was challenged by the Appellants in a section 34 proceeding in the Bombay High Court. By a judgment dated

28.09.2015, the section 34 petition was dismissed as being not

maintainable. An appeal under section 37 of the 1996 Act was dismissed

on 05.05.2017. Meanwhile, HSBC moved the Bombay High Court on

15.04.2015 to enforce the Foreign Final Award in the SSA dated

27.09.2014, which enforcement proceedings are still pending. 2. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate and Mr. Saurabh

Kirpal, learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the Appellants, took us

through the Single Judge order and the Division Bench judgment, and

then referred to the Indian law on the allegations of fraud made in arbitral

proceedings, which, according to them, show that if the transaction

entered into between the parties involve serious criminal offences such

as forgery and impersonation, then it is clear that under Indian law, such

dispute would not be arbitrable. In fact, they stated that a criminal

complaint was filed by HSBC against the Appellants dated 16.01.2013,

alleging offences under sections 420, 467, 468, read with section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, with the Economic Offences Wing,

Mumbai [“EOW”], resulting in an FIR being registered. However, the

EOW informed HSBC that a closure report was filed before the 14 concerned Magistrate in Mumbai. This closure report was then accepted.

HSBC then filed a protest petition seeking rejection of the closure report,

which was dismissed by the learned Magistrate on 05.05.2018. This

order passed by the Magistrate was in turn challenged by HSBC in Writ

Petition (Criminal) No. 5659 of 2018, which petition is still pending. They

then argued that, ultimately, in enforcement proceedings in India, the

gateways of section 48 of the 1996 Act have to be met. “The public

policy of India” is contained in the judgments of this Court regarding

serious allegations of fraud made in arbitral proceedings, and if HSBC

cannot pass this gateway, then enforcing a foreign award in India would

not be possible. It was from this prism that a prima facie case had to be

made out under section 9 of the 1996 Act. They, therefore, attacked both

the Single Judge order and the Division Bench judgment, stating that a

prima facie case for enforcement of such foreign awards cannot possibly

refer to the Singapore law on fraud being alleged in arbitral proceedings,

but can only refer to Indian law. They further argued that the Division

Bench of the Bombay High Court had relied upon a Single Judge

judgment of this Court reported as Swiss Timing Ltd. v.

Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising Committee, (2014) 6 SCC

677 [“Swiss Timing”] which had held the judgment in N.

Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 [“N.

Radhakrishnan”] per incuriam, vitiating the entire Division Bench 15 judgment. This is clear because a Single Judge judgment of this Court

under section 11 of the 1996 Act has no precedential value as has

correctly been held in State of West Bengal v. Associated

Contractors , (2015) 1 SCC 32 [“Associated Contractors”]. Mr. Rohatgi

also indicated that Mr. Christopher Lau, SC, the Chairman of the Arbitral

Tribunal in the Singapore proceedings was biased, in that HSBC was a

client of the firm to which he belonged, and this is one of the important

grounds taken up in the section 48 proceeding which is pending in the

Bombay High Court. He also sought to raise an argument (for the first

time before us) that the award being insufficiently stamped could not be

looked at and that this would also go to show that there is no prima facie

case in order to sustain the interim mandatory orders passed by the

Division Bench of the High Court. It was further added that Report No.

246 of the Law Commission of India on ‘ Amendment to the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act, 1996 ’ of August 2014 [“246th Law Commission

Report”] had recommended that a section 16(7) be added so as to do

away with the ratio of N. Radhakrishnan (supra). However, Parliament

thought it fit, when it passed the Arbitration and Conciliation

(Amendment) Act, 2015 [“2015 Amendment Act”], not to incorporate

such a section, showing that N. Radhakrishnan (supra) holds the field

and that, therefore, serious questions of fraud raised, like in the present

arbitral proceedings, would render such dispute inarbitrable. For this 16 proposition, they relied heavily on the House of Lords judgment in

President of India and La Pintada Compania Navigacion S.A., [1985]

A.C. 104 [“La Pintada”]. 3. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

the Respondent, HSBC, countered all these submissions by relying upon

several judgments of this Court, including the recent judgment in Rashid

Raza v. Sadaf Akhtar , (2019) 8 SCC 710 [“Rashid Raza”]. According to

the learned Senior Advocate, this judgment has, with great clarity,

explained the judgment in A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam , (2016) 10

SCC 386 [“Ayyasamy”], which in turn had explained N. Radhakrishnan

(supra), as referring only to such serious allegations of fraud as would

vitiate the arbitration clause along with the agreement, and allegations of

fraud which are not merely inter parties, but affect the public at large. He

argued that a reading of the pleadings in the present case would show

that neither of these two tests has been met. He also copiously read

from the Foreign Final Award dated 27.09.2014, which found not merely

on impersonation, which was one small leg on which it stood, but also on

siphoning off or diversion of a substantial portion of the USD 60 million

paid by HSBC into companies owned or controlled by the Jain family. He

said that these issues are predominantly civil law issues to be decided

inter parties. He further argued that insofar as Mr. Christopher Lau SC’s 17 alleged bias is concerned, this was not the time or place to go into such

allegations, which would only be fully met in the section 48 proceedings

which are pending. He indicated that in any case, this Foreign Final

Award was unanimous and consisted of two other arbitrators, Dr.

Michael C. Pryles and Justice (Retd.) Ferdino I. Rebello, retired Chief

Justice of the Allahabad High Court. He also asked us not to go into the

stamping aspect of the Foreign Final Award inasmuch as it was raised

here for the first time without any proper pleading; if properly pleaded,

then his client would have had an opportunity to rebut the same to show

that there was no insufficiency of stamp duty paid. Mr. Salve therefore

supported the ultimate order of the learned Single Judge of the Bombay

High Court, and said that the Division Bench ought not to have reduced

the amount of USD 60 million to half, i.e., USD 30 million without any

reasoning worth the name, particularly because the Foreign Final Award

had held that the USD 60 million was to be paid by way of damages with

interest and costs, the shares in HSBC’s name standing cancelled. Once

it is clear that the aforesaid shares stood cancelled, it is clear that the

7.8% of the paid-up share capital of Avitel India that was held by HSBC

reverts to Avitel India. This being the case, there would be no awarding

of the difference between market value of the shares as on the date of

breach and USD 60 million, as the shares are back in the hands of Avitel

India. 18 4. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of both the

parties, the only real question that needs to be addressed in the section

9 proceedings is the extent to which HSBC could be said to have a

strong prima facie case in the enforcement proceedings under section

48 which are pending before the Bombay High Court. If so, whether

irreparable prejudice would be caused to HSBC if protective orders were

not issued in its favour, and generally, whether the balance of

convenience tilts in its favour and to what extent. 5. First and foremost, it is correct to state that this prima facie case

would necessarily depend upon what is the substantive law in India qua

arbitrability when allegations of fraud are raised by one of the parties to

the arbitration agreement. The law on this point has its origins in a

judgment under the Arbitration Act, 1940 [“1940 Act”], the predecessor

to the 1996 Act, which repealed the 1940 Act. Thus, in Abdul Kadir

Shamsuddin Bubere v. Madhav Prabhakar Oak , [1962] 3 SCR 702

[“Abdul Kadir”], disputes arose out of an agreement between the

parties, which contained an arbitration clause. Consequently,

respondents no.1 and 2 filed an application under section 20 of the 1940

Act, as it then stood. This application was opposed by the appellant on

four grounds before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. The fourth ground is

important from our point of view and reads thus: 19 6. In N. Radhakrishnan (supra), differences between the partners of

a firm were sought to be adjudicated in a civil suit filed by the

respondents. The appellant filed an application under section 8 of the

1996 Act stating that as there was an arbitration clause between the

partners, the matter should now be referred to arbitration. This Court,

after considering the judgment in Abdul Kadir (supra), extracted one

sentence from the said judgment at p. 714 as follows: 7. In Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. v. Cherian Varkey Construction

Co. (P) Ltd. , (2010) 8 SCC 24 [“Afcons”], this Court held as follows: 8. In Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd. , (2011)

5 SCC 532 [“Booz Allen”], this Court decided that proceedings in rem,

such as a mortgage suit filed under Order XXXIV of the Civil Procedure

Code, 1908 (which was a proceeding in rem), would not be arbitrable. In

a significant passage, this Court held: Correspondingly, a judgment in personam refers to a
 judgment against a person as distinguished from a judgment
 against a thing, right or status and a judgment in rem refers
 to a judgment that determines the status or condition of
 property which operates directly on the property itself.
 (Vide Black’s Law Dictionary.) 38. Generally and traditionally all disputes relating to rights in
 personam are considered to be amenable to arbitration; and
 all disputes relating to rights in rem are required to be
 adjudicated by courts and public tribunals, being unsuited for
 private arbitration. This is not however a rigid or inflexible
 rule. Disputes relating to subordinate rights in personam
 arising from rights in rem have always been considered to be
 arbitrable. 39. The Act does not specifically exclude any category of
 disputes as being not arbitrable. Sections 34(2)(b) and 48(2) of the Act however make it clear that an arbitral award will be
 set aside if the court finds that “the subject-matter of the
 dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the
 law for the time being in force”.”

The Court then held, following Haryana Telecom Ltd. v. Sterlite

Industries (India) Ltd. , (1999) 5 SCC 688, that similarly, winding up

proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956 cannot be referred to

arbitration (see paragraph 42). As against this, suits for specific 26 performance are arbitrable despite the fact that the court is vested with

discretion to be exercised based upon principles laid down as to when

not to decree specific performance (see paragraphs 43 and 44). The

Court then concluded: Further, the provisions of sections 5 and 16 of the 1996 Act were also

not referred to. Section 5 of the 1996 Act states as follows: 10. The next judgment to be dealt with, chronologically speaking, is

the judgment in Vimal Kishor Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah , (2016) 8

SCC 788 [“Vimal Kishor Shah”]. To the six categories of exceptions to

arbitrability of civil disputes, a seventh category has been added,

namely, disputes arising under trust deeds governed by the Trusts Act,

1882 . Here, it was held that a consideration of the Trusts Act would show

that the intention of the legislature was to confer jurisdiction only on civil

courts for deciding disputes arising under the Trusts Act , which would

amount to an implied bar on other proceedings including arbitral

proceedings. The Court therefore found: SBI Home Finance Ltd., (2011) 5 SCC 532 : (2011) 2 SCC
 (Civ) 781] which as held above cannot be decided by the
 arbitrator(s).”

[This judgment was referred to with approval in Vidya Drolia and Ors.

v. Durga Trading Corporation , 2019 SCC OnLine SC 358 at

paragraph 30]. 11. Now comes the important judgment in Ayyasamy (supra). Two

separate judgments were delivered by a Division Bench of this Court. Sikri, J., after referring to the judgments in Abdul Kadir (supra), N.

Radhakrishnan (supra), Swiss Timing (supra), and Booz Allen (supra), then referred to the 246 th Law Commission Report, in particular

to paragraphs 50 and 51 thereof. He then held: Ltd. [SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] as a
judicial power, cannot be deemed to have precedential value
and, therefore, it cannot be deemed to have overruled the
proposition of law laid down in N. Radhakrishnan [N.
Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 : 25. In view of our aforesaid discussions, we are of the
opinion that mere allegation of fraud simpliciter may not be a
ground to nullify the effect of arbitration agreement between
the parties. It is only in those cases where the court, while
dealing with Section 8 of the Act, finds that there are very
serious allegations of fraud which make a virtual case of 33 criminal offence or where allegations of fraud are so
complicated that it becomes absolutely essential that such
complex issues can be decided only by the civil court on the
appreciation of the voluminous evidence that needs to be
produced, the court can side-track the agreement by
dismissing the application under Section 8 and proceed with
the suit on merits. It can be so done also in those cases
where there are serious allegations of forgery/fabrication of
documents in support of the plea of fraud or where fraud is
alleged against the arbitration provision itself or is of such a
nature that permeates the entire contract, including the
agreement to arbitrate, meaning thereby in those cases
where fraud goes to the validity of the contract itself of the
entire contract which contains the arbitration clause or the
validity of the arbitration clause itself. Reverse position
thereof would be that where there are simple allegations of
fraud touching upon the internal affairs of the party inter se
and it has no implication in the public domain, the arbitration
clause need not be avoided and the parties can be relegated
to arbitration. While dealing with such an issue in an
application under Section 8 of the Act, the focus of the court
has to be on the question as to whether jurisdiction of the
court has been ousted instead of focusing on the issue as to
whether the court has jurisdiction or not. It has to be kept in
mind that insofar as the statutory scheme of the Act is
concerned, it does not specifically exclude any category of
cases as non-arbitrable. Such categories of non-arbitrable
subjects are carved out by the courts, keeping in mind the
principle of common law that certain disputes which are of
public nature, etc. are not capable of adjudication and
settlement by arbitration and for resolution of such disputes,
courts i.e. public fora, are better suited than a private forum
of arbitration. Therefore, the inquiry of the Court, while
dealing with an application under Section 8 of the Act, should
be on the aforesaid aspect viz. whether the nature of dispute
is such that it cannot be referred to arbitration, even if there
is an arbitration agreement between the parties. When the
case of fraud is set up by one of the parties and on that
basis that party wants to wriggle out of that arbitration
agreement, a strict and meticulous inquiry into the
allegations of fraud is needed and only when the Court is
satisfied that the allegations are of serious and complicated
nature that it would be more appropriate for the Court to deal 34 with the subject-matter rather than relegating the parties to
 arbitration, then alone such an application under Section 8 should be rejected.”

Chandrachud, J., in a separate judgment, referred to the judgment in N.

Radhakrishnan (supra) and then held: The present legislation on the subject embodies a conscious
 departure which is intended to strengthen the efficacy of
 arbitration. xxx xxx xxx 43. Hence, the allegations of criminal wrongdoing or of
 statutory violation would not detract from the jurisdiction of
 the Arbitral Tribunal to resolve a dispute arising out of a civil
 or contractual relationship on the basis of the jurisdiction
 conferred by the arbitration agreement.”

He then cautioned against the use of N. Radhakrishnan (supra) as a

precedent, and distinguished it as follows: 35 Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ)
12] does not subscribe to the broad proposition that a mere
allegation of fraud is ground enough not to compel parties to
abide by their agreement to refer disputes to arbitration.
More often than not, a bogey of fraud is set forth if only to
plead that the dispute cannot be arbitrated upon. To allow
such a plea would be a plain misreading of the judgment in
N. Radhakrishnan [N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers,
(2010) 1 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 12] . As I have noted
earlier, that was a case where the appellant who had filed an
application under Section 8 faced with a suit on a dispute in
partnership had raised serious issues of criminal
wrongdoing, misappropriation of funds and malpractice on
the part of the respondent. It was in this background that this
Court accepted the submission of the respondent that the
arbitrator would not be competent to deal with matters
“which involved an elaborate production of evidence to
establish the claims relating to fraud and criminal
misappropriation”. Hence, it is necessary to emphasise that
as a matter of first principle, this Court has not held that a
mere allegation of fraud will exclude arbitrability. The burden
must lie heavily on a party which avoids compliance with the
obligation assumed by it to submit disputes to arbitration to
establish the dispute is not arbitrable under the law for the 36 time being in force. In each such case where an objection on
 the ground of fraud and criminal wrongdoing is raised, it is
 for the judicial authority to carefully sift through the materials
 for the purpose of determining whether the defence is merely
 a pretext to avoid arbitration. It is only where there is a
 serious issue of fraud involving criminal wrongdoing that the
 exception to arbitrability carved out in N. Radhakrishnan [N.
 Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 : 45.2. Allegations of fraud are not alien to ordinary civil
 courts. Generations of judges have dealt with such
 allegations in the context of civil and commercial disputes. If
 an allegation of fraud can be adjudicated upon in the course
 of a trial before an ordinary civil court, there is no reason or
 justification to exclude such disputes from the ambit and
 purview of a claim in arbitration. The parties who enter into
 commercial dealings and agree to a resolution of disputes by
 an arbitral forum exercise an option and express a choice of
 a preferred mode for the resolution of their disputes. The
 parties in choosing arbitration place priority upon the speed,
 flexibility and expertise inherent in arbitral adjudication. Once
 parties have agreed to refer disputes to arbitration, the court
 must plainly discourage and discountenance litigative
 strategies designed to avoid recourse to arbitration. Any
 other approach would seriously place in uncertainty the
 institutional efficacy of arbitration. Such a consequence must
 be eschewed.”

After the statement of the law, the learned Judge referred to an

instructive passage by Gary B. Born as follows: Quite apart from what has been stated by us in paragraph 9 above, as to

how N. Radhakrishnan (supra) cannot be considered to be a binding

precedent for the reasons given in the said paragraph, we are of the

view that the development of the law by this Court cannot be thwarted 41 merely because a certain provision recommended in a Law Commission

Report is not enacted by Parliament. Parliament may have felt, as was

mentioned by Lord Reid in British Railways Board and Herrington,

1972 A.C. 877 [House of Lords], that it was unable to make up its mind

and instead, leave it to the courts to continue, case by case, deciding

upon what should constitute the fraud exception. 1 Parliament may also

have thought that section 16(7) , proposed by the Law Commission, is

clumsily worded as it speaks of “a serious question of law, complicated

questions of fact, or allegations of fraud, corruption, etc.” N.

Radhakrishnan (supra) did not lay down that serious questions of law or

complicated questions of fact are non-arbitrable. Further, “allegations of

fraud, corruption, etc.” is vague. For this reason also, Parliament may

have left it to the courts to work out the fraud exception. In any case, we

have pointed out that dehors any such provision, the ratio in N.

Radhakrishnan (supra), being based upon a judgment under the 1940

Act, and without considering sections 5 , 8 and 16 of the 1996 Act in their

proper perspective, would all show that the law laid down in this case

cannot now be applied as a precedent for application of the fraud mantra

to negate arbitral proceedings. For the reasons given in this judgment,

the House of Lords’ decision would have no application inasmuch as N.

1 This case is referred to in Lord Brandon’s judgment in La Pintada (supra) and
distinguished at p. 130 of his judgment. 42 Radhakrishnan (supra) has been tackled on the judicial side and has

been found to be wanting. 13. The judgment in Ayyasamy (supra) was then applied in Ameet

Lalchand Shah v. Rishabh Enterprises , (2018) 15 SCC 678. After

extracting paragraph 25 from Sikri, J.’s judgment and paragraph 48 of

Chandrachud, J.’s judgment in Ayyasamy (supra), the Court held: 14. In a recent judgment reported as Rashid Raza (supra), this Court

referred to Sikri, J.’s judgment in Ayyasamy (supra) and then held: 15. At this stage, it is necessary to deal with the broad statement of

the law in Afcons (supra) and Booz Allen (supra). When Afcons (supra) refers in paragraph 27(iv) to “cases involving serious and specific

allegations of fraud, fabrication of documents, forgery, impersonation,

coercion, etc.”, this must now be understood in the sense laid down in Ayyasamy (supra) and Rashid Raza (supra). When it comes to

paragraph 27(vi) in Afcons (supra), and paragraph 36(i) in Booz Allen 44 (supra), namely, cases involving prosecution for criminal offences, it is

also important to remember that the same set of facts may have civil as

well as criminal consequences. Thus, in K.G. Premshanker v.

Inspector of Police , (2002) 8 SCC 87 [“Premshanker”], this Court had

to answer a reference made to it as follows: 770, para 11)
 “11. As seen that the civil court after full-dressed
 trial recorded the finding that the appellant had
 not come into possession through the
 Company but had independent tenancy rights
 from the principal landlord and, therefore, the
 decree for eviction was negatived. Until that
 finding is duly considered by the appellate court
 after weighing the evidence afresh and if it so
 warranted reversed, the findings bind the
 parties. The findings, recorded by the criminal
 court, stand superseded by the findings recorded
 by the civil court. Thereby, the findings of the civil
 court get precedence over the findings recorded
 by the trial court, in particular, in summary trial for
 offences like Section 630. The mere pendency of 45 the appeal does not have the effect of
 suspending the operation of the decree of the
 trial court and neither the finding of the civil court
 gets nor the decree becomes inoperative.”
 (emphasis in original)

After referring to sections 40 to 43 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and

the judgment in M.S. Sheriff v. The State of Madras , 1954 SCR 1144,

this Court held: 16. In Iqbal Singh Marwah v. Meenakshi Marwah [(2005) 4
SCC 370 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1101] this Court held as under: 17. In Syed Askari Hadi Ali Augustine Imam v. State (Delhi
Admn .) [(2009) 5 SCC 528] this Court considered all the
earlier judgments on the issue and held that while deciding
the case in Karam Chand [(1970) 3 SCC 694 : AIR 1971 SC
1244], this Court failed to take note of the Constitution Bench
judgment in M.S. Sheriff [AIR 1954 SC 397 : 1954 Cri LJ
1019] and, therefore, it remains per incuriam and does not
lay down the correct law. A similar view has been reiterated 49 by this Court in Vishnu Dutt Sharma v. Daya Sapra [(2009)
 13 SCC 729 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 1229] , wherein it has been
 held by this Court that the decision in Karam Chand [(1970)
 3 SCC 694 : AIR 1971 SC 1244] stood overruled in K.G.
 Premshanker [(2002) 8 SCC 87 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 223 : AIR
 2002 SC 3372]. 18. Thus, in view of the above, the law on the issue stands
 crystallised to the effect that the findings of fact recorded by
 the civil court do not have any bearing so far as the criminal
 case is concerned and vice versa. Standard of proof is
 different in civil and criminal cases. In civil cases it is
 preponderance of probabilities while in criminal cases it is
 proof beyond reasonable doubt. There is neither any
 statutory nor any legal principle that findings recorded by the
 court either in civil or criminal proceedings shall be binding
 between the same parties while dealing with the same
 subject-matter and both the cases have to be decided on the
 basis of the evidence adduced therein. However, there may
 be cases where the provisions of Sections 41 to 43 of the
 Evidence Act, 1872, dealing with the relevance of previous
 judgments in subsequent cases may be taken into
 consideration. ”

To complete the review of case law on the subject, we may finally refer

to Guru Granth Saheb Sthan Meerghat Vanaras v. Ved Prakash ,

(2013) 7 SCC 622, wherein this Court, after referring to the previous

case law on the subject held as follows: Secondly, in the facts of the present case there is no
 likelihood of any embarrassment to the defendants
 (Respondents 1 to 4 herein) as they had already filed the
 written statement in the civil suit and based on the pleadings
 of the parties the issues have been framed. In this view of
 the matter, the outcome and/or findings that may be arrived
 at by the civil court will not at all prejudice the defence(s) of
 Respondents 1 to 4 in the criminal proceedings.” 16. In the light of the aforesaid judgments, paragraph 27(vi) of Afcons (supra) and paragraph 36(i) of Booz Allen (supra), must now be read

subject to the rider that the same set of facts may lead to civil and

criminal proceedings and if it is clear that a civil dispute involves

questions of fraud, misrepresentation, etc. which can be the subject

matter of such proceeding under section 17 of the Contract Act, and/or

the tort of deceit, the mere fact that criminal proceedings can or have

been instituted in respect of the same subject matter would not lead to 51 the conclusion that a dispute which is otherwise arbitrable, ceases to be

so. 17. Section 17 of the Contract Act defines “fraud” as follows: Explanation.—Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
 the willingness of a person to enter into a contract is not
 fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such that,
 regard being had to them, it is the duty of the person keeping
 silence to speak3, or unless his silence is, in itself, equivalent
 to speech.” Section 10 of the Contract Act states that all agreements are contracts if

they are made with the free consent of parties competent to contract, for

a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby

expressly declared to be void. Section 14 states that consent is said to

be free when it is not caused inter alia by fraud as defined in section 17 .

Importantly, the section goes on to say that consent is said to be so

caused when it would not have been given but for the existence, inter

2 Cf. S. 238, infra. 3 See S. 143 , infra. 52 alia, of such fraud. Where such fraud is proved, and consent to an

agreement is caused by fraud, the contract is voidable at the option of

the party whose consent was so caused. This is provided by section 19 of the Contract Act which reads as follows: 4 It is important to note that the exception in section 19 does not apply to fraudulent
misrepresentation as the words “by silence” alone go with the word “fraudulent”, thus
not applying to cases of fraudulent misrepresentation. In John Minas Apcar v.
Louis Caird Malchus , AIR 1939 Cal 473, the concurrent judgments of Derbyshire,
C.J. and Lort Williams, J. referred to a passage from Sir Frederick Pollock and Sir
Dinshah Mulla, in their work on the Contract Act, 6 th Edition, which said: Thus, fraud that is practiced outside of section 17 of the Contract Act,

i.e., in the performance of the contract, may be governed by the tort of

deceit, which would lead to damages, but not rescission of the contract

itself.5
5 In State of Tripura v. Province of East Bengal, Union of India , 1951 SCR 1, in a
separate concurring judgment, Mukherjea, J. went into what in English law was
considered as a tort (see pp. 44-49). The learned Judge concluded as follows: (ii) a series of payments was then made by Avitel Dubai as
follows: c. on 9 June 2011 the Avitel Dubai Account was
 debited in the amount of USD 10 million which
 amount was then credited to a different Emirates
 NBD bank account which is also held in the
 name of Highend. On 27 July 2011 this amount
 was transferred to a further Emirates NBD
 account in the name of Digital Fusion. This sum
 was thereafter transferred to Cralton Capital
 Commercial Broker Services LLC (“Cralton")
 which appears to be a broking and investment
 company [Witness Statement of Mr. van
 Schalkwyk, at para.17(b) (iii)] in respect of which
 company Mr. Boban Idiculla is the sole signatory
 to its bank account with Emirates NDB [Witness
 Statement of Mr. van Schalkwyk, at fn. 9]; d. on 13 June 2011 and 14 June 2011, the Avitel
 Dubai Account was debited in the amounts of
 USD 10 million and USD 5 million respectively
 which amounts were credited to an Emirates
 NBD account held in the name of Digital Fusion. On 19 July 2011 and 26 July 2011, Digital
 Fusion's account was debited in the amounts 63 USD 5 million and USD 10 million respectively
 which amounts were credited to an Emirates
 NBD account held in the name of Cralton. The
 account records of Cralton held with Emirates
 NBD show that the transfers in July 2011 totalling
 USD 25 million were used to make various
 transfers, fixed term deposits and investments
 between Cralton, Highend, Digital Fusion and
 SPAC [Witness Statement of Mr. van Schalkwyk,
 at para.17(b)(iv)]; e. on 23 February 2012, the Avitel Dubai Account
 was debited in the amount of USD 8 million
 which amount was credited to the Emirates NBD
 account held in the name of Highend. On 28
 February 2012, this account was debited in the
 amount of USD 7.48 million which was credited
 to a different Emirates NBD account held in the
 name of SPAC. A further debit in the amount of
 USD 500,000 occurred on 28 February 2012
 which sum was routed through two different
 Emirates NBD accounts, one held in the name of
 DejaVu FZ-LLC and one in the name of Al Jalore
 Trading FZE, before this sum was finally credited
 to a Dubai Multi Commodities Centre entity,
 namely Emerald DMCC [Witness Statement of
 Mr. van Schalkwyk, at para.17(b)(v)]; f. Mr. van Schalkwyk understands that between
 18 April 2012 and 29 April 2012, there was a
 further transfer from the Avitel Dubai Account of
 USD 8.5 million. However, he has been unable to
 ascertain to which account(s) these funds have
 been transferred to [Witness Statement of Mr.
 van Schalkwyk, at para.18].”

It then found that the following admitted facts would show that most of

the representations made by the Avitel Group and the Jain family to

HSBC were false in that: i. In total, USD 59.72 million of the
Claimant's USD 60 million investment have
been transferred out of Avitel Dubai's bank
accounts and into bank accounts the
majority of which are controlled by the Jain
Family; j. the domain names for Kinden, SPAC,
Highend and Digital Fusion had been
registered by Mr. Hrishi Jain; k. on 28 January 2012, the websites for
Kinden, SPAC, Highend and Digital Fusion
had been transferred from the hosting site
"rediffinalpro.com " to "rirev.com", the same
hosting site which had been utilized by
Avitel Dubai since 28 June 2011. Each 65 website was thereafter re-registered
 employing a proxy service called "Domains
 By Proxy, LLC”, which provides anonymity
 to the owners of websites on the internet.”

As a result thereof, issue (iv) was answered stating: While the Tribunal accepts this, this hearing which was
scheduled for and to be held in Singapore together with the
substantial delay in seeking a postponement of the
November 2013 Oral Hearing was not satisfactorily
explained. The Respondents also sought an adjournment on
the grounds, inter alia, of their inability to engage counsel.
However, it appears to the Tribunal that during this period
(i.e. from the time when they sought an adjournment up to
the date of the November 2013 Oral Hearing), they were
able to. The Tribunal also points out that although the
Respondents at various stages ceased to be represented by
lawyers, the letters written and signed by Mr. Yogesh
Garodia either on behalf of the First Respondent or on behalf
of all Respondents or the letters signed by the First
Respondent (through Mr. Yogesh Garodia) Second, Third
and Fourth Respondents, during this period were written in
legal terminology including the employment of legal Latin
maxims. The Respondents’ applications for re-scheduling
the hearing dates in the Tribunal's view must be viewed
against the background of the failure of the Respondents to
comply with the orders of the Emergency Arbitrator in
proceedings in Singapore in which the Respondents had
been represented by both Indian and Singapore counsel and
provided evidence. All of the above are suggestive to the
Tribunal of an attempt to delay these proceedings.
20.2 The Respondents provided no witness statements and
did not adduce any oral evidence before this Tribunal
although the Tribunal accepts that they did so in the
proceedings before the Emergency Arbitrator, namely in Mr.
Yogesh Garodia’s Witness Statement. In reaching its
findings and its decisions, this Tribunal has considered fully
the Respondents’ numerous submissions and Mr. Yogesh
Garodia's Witness Statement as well as the documentary
evidence. The Claimant provided evidence from a number of
witnesses and also documentary evidence. As the
Respondents did not attend the November 2013 Oral
Hearing, the Tribunal tested the evidence of the Claimant's
witnesses by asking a number of questions. The Tribunal
finds each of the Claimant's witnesses to be credible and it
accepts their evidence part of which is corroborated by the
documentary evidence submitted by the Claimant Including
an email from Ms. Sarah Jones, General Counsel at the 70 BBC, dated 4 May 2012 confirming, inter alia, that the BBC
 had not entered into a contract with Avitel India, that Mr.
 John Linwood had not attended a meeting on 19 April 2011
 with Mr. Anthony Bernbaum but at the same time was in an
 internal meeting with BBC staff. 20.3 In summary, the Tribunal finds that the Jain Family
 (namely the Second, Third and Fourth Respondents)
 engaged in a deliberate and dishonest scheme to induce the
 Claimant (part of HSBC) to invest in Avitel India (namely the
 First Respondent). The Claimant placed the investment
 because it had been advised by the Jain Family (making the
 representations also on behalf of Avitel India), verbally, in
 writing and in the SSA itself, that Avitel India was about to
 and from 2 August 2011 had signed a contract with the BBC,
 for the BBC to use the services of Avitel India. This was
 false. Not only had a contract not been negotiated, let alone
 signed with the BBC, but the BBC had no knowledge of it.
 20.4 The misrepresentations and deception of the
 Respondents included the arrangement of a meeting
 between a representative of HSBC and a person who was
 falsely held out by the Respondents and purported to be the
 Chief Technical Officer of the BBC and who falsely purported
 to corroborate the Respondents’ misrepresentations. The
 representations were made prior to the conclusion of the
 SSA and in the SSA itself. They were made knowingly to be
 untrue and were fraudulent.”

As a result thereof, it was found that HSBC, in respect of its claim for

fraudulent misrepresentation, and its claim in tort for deceit, is entitled to

damages in the total amount of USD 60 million plus interest and costs as

awarded. The final declaration made in the Award then reads: 21.19 hereinabove and all costs arising out of and incidental
 to the cancellation of the Claimant’s Preference Subscription
 Shares and Equity Subscription Shares (as defined in the
 SSA) in Avitel India, that the said shares be cancelled and 71 that in this regard, the Parties take the requisite steps to
 effect the said cancellation within 30 days of receipt of such
 payment.” 21. There can be no doubt whatsoever after reading the issues and

some of the material findings in the Foreign Final Award that the issues

raised and answered are the subject matter of civil as opposed to

criminal proceedings. The fact that a separate criminal proceeding was

sought to be started and may have failed is of no consequence

whatsoever. We, therefore, hold on a conspectus of these facts, and

following our judgments, that the issues raised and answered in the

Foreign Final Award would indicate: 22. Thus, a reading of the Foreign Final Award in this case would show

that a strong prima facie case has indeed been made out as the Award

holds the BBC transaction as a basis on which the contract was entered

into and the USD 60 million paid by HSBC, which would clearly fall within

fraudulent inducement to enter into a contract under section 17 of the

Contract Act. Such a contract would be voidable at the instance of

HSBC. Also, the findings on the siphoning off of monies that were meant

to be allocated for the performance of the BBC contract would attract the

tort of deceit. The measure of damages for such fraudulent

misrepresentation is not the difference between the value of the shares

on the date of making the contract and the value HSBC would have

received, if it had resold those shares in the market, after the purchase.

As has been held in the judgments stated hereinabove, the measure of

such damages would be to put HSBC in the same position as if the

contract had never been entered into, which is, the entitlement to

recover the price paid for the shares and all consequential losses. This

being the case, it is difficult to accede to the Division Bench’s finding as

to the measure of damages in such cases. 73 23. So far as the other points raised by M/s. Mukul Rohatgi and

Saurabh Kirpal are concerned, we wish to say nothing, as any finding on

these points even prima facie would prejudice the section 48 proceedings pending in the Bombay High Court. So far as the appeal of

HSBC is concerned, we are of the view that it has substance in that the

USD 60 million that was to be kept aside vide the Single Judge’s order,

was fair and just in the facts of the case in that it is only the principal

amount without any interest or costs that is ordered to be kept aside.

Further, the reduction of USD 60 million to USD 30 million by the

Division Bench is not justified given our finding on the measure of

damages in the facts of this case. 24. It is clarified that any finding made on facts in this judgment is only

prima facie for the purpose of deciding the section 9 petition. We have

held that HSBC has made out a strong prima facie case necessitating

that USD 60 million, being the principal amount awarded to them, is kept

apart in the manner indicated by the learned Single Judge of the

Bombay High Court. The balance of convenience is also in its favour. It

is clear that in case HSBC was to enforce the Foreign Final Award in

India in accordance with section 48 of the 1996 Act, irreparable loss

would be caused to it unless at least the principal sum were kept aside

for purposes of enforcement of the award in India. Accordingly, we 74 dismiss Civil Appeal No.5145 of 2016 filed by Avitel India and the Jain

family, and allow Civil Appeal No.5158 of 2016 filed by HSBC. Civil Appeal No. 9820 of 2016 25. In this case, the Appellant is an angel investor in the shares of

Avitel India. By a letter dated 04.07.2016, the Appellant herein

expressed his concern on the observations and the freezing of the

company’s bank account by the Bombay High Court vide orders dated

22.01.2014 and 31.07.2014. The Appellant attended a meeting of the

Board of Directors of Avitel India on 11.07.2016, in which the Chairman

of the company, i.e., Mr. Pradeep Jain, explained to the Appellant in

some detail as to the proceedings filed by HSBC against the company

and the orders passed by the Arbitrators and Courts therein. The

Chairman expressed a view that, ultimately, they were likely to succeed

in this litigation. The Appellant stated that he was not satisfied with this

point of view and asked for the return of the money invested along with

interest at the rate of 12% per annum. The Chairman stated that the

amounts invested by the Appellant were in equity shares, which were the

fixed capital of the company, and any return of such investment is not

permissible in law. The Appellant then stated the following, which is

recorded in the Minutes of the Board Meeting dated 11.07.2016: 75 …………..………………J.
 (R. F. Nariman)

 ……..……………………J.
 (Navin Sinha)
New Delhi
August 19, 2020. 78