The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology ( MeitY ) on Thursday released the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Rules, 2025 , aiming to regulate how personal data is handled.

Among other things, the rules state that Data Principals (users), who have given consent for processing their personal data, must be issued an “identifier” by Data Fiduciaries, including social media and e-commerce platforms.

For context, an identifier can be any sequence of characters issued by the Data Fiduciary to identify the Data Principal, including a customer identification file number, customer acquisition form number, application reference number, enrolment ID, email address, mobile number or licence number that enables such identification.

As per the DPDP Rules, 2025, all Data Fiduciaries and Consent Managers must also:

Publish Details: Companies need to provide clear-cut instructions on their website or app or both for Data Principals to make requests for exercising their rights. They must also publish particulars, such as username or other “identifier” of Data Principal that may aid in their identification.

Grievance Redressal: Every Data Fiduciary and Consent Manager must establish a grievance redressal mechanism and address concerns of Data Principals within 90 days .

Individuals are entitled to access information about their personal data to review what information Data Fiduciaries hold and share with third parties. Data Principals must also provide identification and necessary details to aid businesses in locating their data.

The DPDP Rules, 2025 state that:

2. The Data Fiduciary must also notify the Data Principal immediately in case their personal data is compromised in the event of a breach. Affected users can be contacted through their user account or any other mode of communication registered by them with the Data Fiduciary. The intimation of personal data breach must include the following—

Data Principals have the right to request corrections to their personal data if it is inaccurate, misleading, incomplete or outdated. Furthermore, they can also request the erasure of their personal data unless retention is necessary for the purposes it was collected, or if they withdraw their consent.

It is to be noted that the retention period varies by the type of data fiduciary, as defined in the Third Schedule. For context, e-commerce entities, online gaming intermediaries and social media platforms can retain personal data for:

Notably, before erasing personal data, the Data Fiduciary must:

Data Principals have the right to submit grievances through designated channels provided by businesses. These grievances should clearly state the issue and may include relevant details and evidence.

Businesses are required to acknowledge the receipt of the complaints, conduct an investigation and respond to the Data Principal with the resolution within 90 days.

Data principals have the right to nominate one or more individuals to exercise their data protection rights in case of death or incapacity, ensuring that personal data is managed according to the data principal’s wishes even when they cannot do so themselves. Importantly, it provides a way to designate a trusted person to manage or control access to one’s personal data.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event