The captioned appeal, preferred the assessee, is directed against the order of
learned Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals), Moradabad, arising out of the order
dated 31.12.2016, u/s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 , passed by the DCIT-I,
Moradabad, pertaining to the assessment year 2014-15. The assessee has raised following grounds of appeal: 2. None appeared on behalf of the assessee despite issuance of notice on several
occasions. We find from the order-sheet noting, the assessee had not bothered to
secure his presence on 7.7.2022; 3.1.2023; 5.4.2023; 1.6.2023; 31.7.2023; 1.8.2023;
21.9.2023; and 31.1.2024. Since sufficient opportunities were given to the assessee by
this tribunal, the Bench felt it desirable not to wait for the presence of the assessee or 3 ITA no. 6345/Del/2019

his authorized representative and proceed to dispose of this appeal on hearing the
learned DR and based on materials available on record. 3. The assessee filed his return of income for A.Y. 2014-15 on 30.11.2014 declaring
total income of Rs. 28,86,490/-. The assessee claimed exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act
in respect of sale of shares for the long term capital gains of Rs. 49,52,385/- arising out
of sale of shares of M/s Eco Friendly Food Processing Park Limited. This scrip was
considered by the Department as a penny stock based on Kolkata Investigation Wing
report and the assessment was completed by treating the entire sale proceeds of
shares of Rs. 52,44,182/- as unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of the Act, considering the
entire transactions as bogus. 4. The learned CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee made
before him, upheld the action of the learned AO by observing as under: 3.5 The above case was referred to the Hon'ble High Court from the
judgement of Hon'ble ITAT Delhi in ITA No. 6717/DEL/2017 dated 08.01.2019.
The Hon'ble Tribunal held as under: 3.6 Further, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of NDR Promoters Pvt.
Ltd. Dated 17.01.2019 (ITA 49/2018) has made a thread bare analysis of section
68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The Hon'ble Court has mentioned that there are
two sets of judgments related to section 68 and both sets have their own facts.
In one set of cases, assessee has produced necessary documents and no further
inquiries are conducted by the Department. In second set of cases, inquiries
have been conducted by the AO and the requirements of identity, genuineness
and creditworthiness have to be tested not superficially but in depth, having
regard to human probabilities and normal course of human conduct. The
relevant portion of this judgment is reproduced below for the sake of
convenience: The primary requirements, which should be satisfied in such cases is,
identification of the creditors/shareholder, creditworthiness of
creditors/shareholder and genuineness of the transaction. These three
requirements have to be tested not superficially but in depth having
regard to the human probabilities and normal course of human conduct. 14. Certificate of incorporation, PAN number etc. are relevant for purchase
of identification, but have their limitation when there is evidence and
material to show that the subscriber was a paper company and not a
genuine investor. It is in this context, the Supreme Court in CIT Vs. Durga
Prasad More (1971) 82 ITR 540 (SC) had observed:- 15. Summarizing the legal position in Nova Promoters and Finlease (P)
Ltd.(supra), and highlighting the legal effect of section 68 of the Act, the
Division Bench has held as under:- (emphasis supplied) Section 68 recognizes the aforesaid legal position. The view
 taken by the Tribunal on the duty cast on the Assessing 8 ITA no. 6345/Del/2019

 Officer by section 68 is contrary to the law laid down by the
 Supreme Court in the judgment cited above. Even if one
 were to hold, albeit erroneously and without being aware of
 the legal position adumbrated above, that the Assessing
 Officer is bound to show that the source of the unaccounted
 monies was the coffers of the assessee, we are inclined to
 think that in the facts of the present case such proof has
 been brought out by the Assessing Officer. The statements
 of Mukesh Gupta and Rajan Jassal, the entry providers,
 explaining their modus operandi to help assessee"s having
 unaccounted monies convert the same into accounted
 monies affords sufficient material on the basis of which the
 Assessing Officer can be said to have discharged the duty.
 The statements refer to the practice of taking cash and
 issuing cheques in the guise of subscription to share capital,
 for a consideration in the form of commission. As already
 pointed out, names of several companies which figured in
 the statements given by the above persons to the
 investigation wing also figured as share-applicants
 subscribing to the shares of the assessee-company. These
 constitute materials upon which one could reasonably come
 to the conclusion that the monies emanated from the coffers
 of the assesseecompany. The Tribunal, apart from adopting
 an erroneous legal approach, also failed to keep in view the
 material that was relied upon by the Assessing Officer. The
 CIT (Appeals) also fell into the same error. If such material
 had been kept in view, the Tribunal could not have failed to
 draw the appropriate inference." 3.7 The Hon'ble High Court further stated that the AO has not kept quiet and
had made inquiries and also queried the respondent assessee to examine the
issue of genuineness of transactions. The tribunal unfortunately did not examine
that aspect and ignored the factual position. 3.8 The Apex Court has delivered a landmark judgment in the case of NRA
Iron & Steel Pvt. Ltd. Vide order dated 05.03.2019. The issue in this case was
with respect to the onus of proof in respect of Share capital/premium credited in
the books of account of the assessee company, which was added u/s 68 of the
Income Tax Act, 1961. The Hon'ble Apex Court enumerated the following
principles: The Assessee is under a legal obligation to prove the receipt of share
capital/premium to the satisfaction of the AO, failure of which, would justify
addition of the said amount to the income of the Assessee. 3.10 In the present case, the AO has carried out detailed investigation. He has
not kept quiet and after having received the investigation report from Directorate
of Investigation, Kolkata, he has made extensive inquiries. After investigation, he
has mentioned the facts in the assessment order which are as under: Therefore, even if, the specific name is not listed anywhere, the action of AO is
justified based on the human conduct and preponderance of probabilities. 3.12 Also, it has been held by Hon'ble Apex Court in the Durga Prasad Mor and
Sumati Dayal that the test of human probabilities has also to be applied by the
authorities below. In the case of Sumati Dayal 214 ITR 801, it was held that
during the year 1970 - 71 (pertaining to the assessment year 1971-72) between
April 6, 1970, and March 20, 1971, the appellant claims to have won in horse
race a total amount of Rs * 0.3 * 0.11 * 0.831 /. on 13 occasions out of which
ten winnings were from jackpots and three were from treble events. Similarly in
the year 1971-72, the appellant won races on two occasions and both times the
winning were from a jackpot. These receipts were tested on the touch stone of
human probability and it was found that apparent was not real. That it was
contrary to statistical theory and experience of the frequencies and probabilities.
The exceptional luck enjoyed by the appellant was held to be beyond
preponderance of probability. Hence the Hon'ble Apex Court has affirmed the
view that it would not be unreasonable to infer that the appellant had not really
participated in any of the races except to the extent of purchasing the winning
tickets after the events presumably with unaccounted funds. When the present
case is examined on the touch stone of above case law, it is clear that these
transactions of the appellant can by no stretch of imagination be considered as
investment transactions. They are only make believe transaction. Hence I do not
find any infirmity in the AO taxing the receipt in this regard. 3.13 In view of the above discussion, it is apparent that lots of inquiries have
been made by the AO and substantial material is collected by him. The following
particular facts, which have been gathered by the AO are relevant for this case. i. The assessee is not a regular investor. However, she has invested in the
 scrip i.e. M/s Eco Friendly Food Ltd and hit the jackpot in the same. This is 11 ITA no. 6345/Del/2019

 quite abnormal in view of the test of human probabilities laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Durga Prasad Mor and Sumati Dayal. ii. The investigation report of the Income Tax Department suggests that
 the scrip i.e. M/s Eco Friendly Food Ltd was pertaining to the paper
 companies, which were used for manipulation of shares in the LTCG
 Scam. iii. Unrealistic rise in the share price of M/s Eco Friendly Food Ltd as
 mentioned in the assessment order. iv. Poor financial health of the companies as mentioned by the AO in the
 assessment order. 3.14 In view of the above facts, it is clear that the claim of LTCG o Rs.
 49,52,385/- on the alleged sale of shares is basically accommodation entry from
 the entry operator. The appellant is involved in the scam o accommodation entry
 and there is no merit in his submission that the sal consideration has been
 received through banking channel and shares were sold in stock exchange. The
 shares in which he has invested belong to pape companies. Their financial
 position is extremely poor and they do not seem to be carrying out a regular
 business. The exponential rise in their share prise is nothing else but a
 manipulation by the syndicate of operators involved in the scam. In the present
 case, the appellant's explanation that the said receipt is on account of
 investment in shares, whereby shares of unknown company have jumped in no
 time has been totally rejected by the AO. The appellant has not at all been able
 to adduce cogent evidences in this regard. There is no economic or financial
 justification for the sale price of these shares. The fantastic sale price realization
 is not at all humanly probable, as there is no economic or financial basis that a
 share of little known company would jump so high. In these circumstances, I do
 not find any infirmity in the order of the AO. Also, the case laws on which
 appellant has relied have different set of facts. In view of the facts discussed in
 earlier paras, I am of the considered view that the AO was justified to disallow
 the claim of long term capital gain of Rs.49,52,385/- and to treat the total sale
 consideration as income from undisclosed sources. 4.0 In the result, the appeal is dismissed." 5. The assessee has not controverted the aforesaid findings of the learned CIT(A)
by cogent evidences. Hence, we do not deem it fit to interfere in the order of the 12 ITA no. 6345/Del/2019

learned CIT(A) in peculiar facts and circumstances of the instant case. Accordingly, the
grounds raised by the assessee are hereby dismissed. 6. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in open court on 29.04.2024.