What’s the news: An inter-ministerial task force set up to form rules and regulations for the online gaming sector has restarted the debate on whether such game aggregators are intermediaries or publishers, reported the Hindustan Times .

As per a report viewed by HT, the task force discussed whether gaming platforms can be regulated under section 79(2)(c) of the IT Act, 2000 , “providing for rule-making power to prescribe due diligence to be observed by the intermediaries to claim safe harbour under section 79(1) against third party content,” while also acting as publishers. While the task force favours a new central legislation to license the online gaming sector and block/deregister entities violating Indian laws, it fails to define an online gaming platform.

However, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) said that such platforms can only be publishers of content since they “play a significant role in determining the information/content being offered to users.” It said that section 79 cannot be used for regulating online gaming platforms. Further, rules framed under a central law may not be able to override state laws leading to inconsistency of regulation across India, said MIB as per HT. While it suggested framing of an appropriate central legislation for regulation, the Ministry said rules under the IT Act “may not serve the desired purpose.”

The report mentioned that the task force’s scope only covers online gaming i.e. games of skill including real money games of skill. It does not include online gambling since “betting & gambling” is a state subject, said HT.

Gaming platforms claim to be intermediaries: Recognition as intermediaries exempts the aggregators from penal action for publishing third party content, said HT. Until now, platforms have evaded content-related provisions by saying they only act as intermediaries. This limits punishment and blocking powers of law enforcement agencies. As such, the task force report said such rules may not be sufficient to completely address the issues under the existing law.

“For example, if the current scope of section 69A does not allow blocking of offshore unauthorised gaming or gambling websites, it may be difficult to expand such scope through rules under section 79 of the IT Act,” said the HT report.

Ministry departments say gaming platforms can be both: In the task force report, the department of legal affairs said that “gaming platforms can qualify as both intermediaries and publishers,” and that the government may review appropriate provisions under the IT Act and other ancillary Acts to cover responsibilities and liabilities of the online gaming platforms. Similarly, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that online gaming service providers may be considered as intermediaries under the IT Act. While a central law or the proposed Digital India Act can be considered for a long-term measure, the ministry suggested that “a suitable ministry administer the content and other regulation of the gaming platform by enacting new rules under the IT Act.”

Similarly, DPIIT favoured the idea of viewing gaming platforms as intermediaries and publishers. Referring to section 79 and section 69A of the IT Act it said, “The set of rules may specify conditional immunities to online gaming platform while acting as intermediary from liability for third party content.”

Meanwhile, the Department of Consumer Affairs representative said that the Consumer Protection Act (CPA) can be used to regulate online gaming for unfair trade practices and misleading ads. However, the overall regulation of the online gaming industry lies outside the scope of CPA, it said.

No laws to look at gamers’ rights in India: An in-depth discussion between the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and gamers on July 14, 2022 has highlighted the lack of rights of gamers under the Indian law.

“Presently, online gaming platforms are also not legally required to follow basic requirements like protecting gamers’ data, preventing sexual harassment or inappropriate behaviour on the gaming platform, having an anti-bot policy,” the report said as per HT.

The report observed that many offshore betting and gambling websites have become popular in India despite being illegal in the country. These websites are widely advertised in Indian newspapers and TV channels and allow users to transact in Indian currency through internet banking, UPI and popular wallets. In this direction, MIB had issued an advisory on June 13, 2022 to print and online media to refrain from publishing advertisements of online betting platforms.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event