1 Facts of the case of prosecution in brief are that on the

basis of source information case RC No. 39(A) of 2003 was

registered by the CBI on 11.07.2003 with the allegation that

accused Dharamvir Khattar entered into a criminal conspiracy

with Sh. S. K. Mittal and P. L. Garg, both JEs of the DDA and other

unknown DDA officials and attempted to cheat and cause

pecuniary loss to the Govt. Exchequer by using premises of

Bhairon Mandir Samiti (hereinafter referred to as "BMS") and Hari

Chan Parkash Wanti Trust as hotel as against the agreed religious

purposes, for which the land have been allotted by the DDA. The

investigation in respect of Hari Chand Parkash Wanti Trust, which

had been allotted a plot for religious purpose at 2, Khel Gaon Marg,

New Delhi was separately conducted. 2 It is further case of the prosecution that during the

course of investigation, it was found that on 17.01.1986 plot bearing

no. 1, Kalindi College Road, East Patel Nagar, Institutional Area,

Prasad Nagar, New Delhi measuring 600 sq. yards was allotted to CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 2 of 179 3 BMS for religious purpose through accused Dharamvir Khattar.

Allotment for religious purpose was made on the basis of false

declaration filed by accused Dharamvir Khattar. The building plans

were also got sanctioned on the basis of false declaration. As per

the sanctioned building plan, the BMS was to construct a basement

for storage purpose, ground floor; having certain rooms, toilets, etc.

mezzanine floor consisting of four store rooms, first floor and

second floor. The actual construction carried out was totally in

contradiction to the sanctioned building plan in as much against the

mezzanine floor consisted of four store rooms, staircase, first floor

and second floor, accused Dharamvir Khattar constructed full four

storeys in addition to the ground floor. Accused Dharamvir Khattar

had applied for sanction of the building plan on 11.03.1986. Form

C was issued by building section of DDA to BMS on 26.02.1988.

From D was issued on 22.04.1988 and the Occupancy Certificate

was issued on 25.08.1988. 3 As per case of the prosecution, accused Dharamvir

Khattar entered into a criminal conspiracy with accused K. M. Johri

and in pursuance thereof, he inspected the premises of BMS and CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 3 of 179 4 dishonestly submitted a false NOC report form on 16.08.1988 that

there was only ground floor, mezzanine floor consisting of just four

store rooms, first floor and second floor apart from basement

though no mezzanine floor consisting of four store rooms were

constructed in the building. According to the case of prosecution,

during investigation it was revealed that from the year 1988,

accused Dharamvir Khattar started misusing the unauthorisedly

constructed premises as a restaurant named "Atithi". In the year

1992-93 Delhi Fire Service and MCD found at the time of inspection

that the aforesaid building was named as "Atithi Guest House" and

not "Bhairon Mandir Samiti". Delhi Fire Service also mentioned in

its report that premises consisted of a restaurant, reception office,

kitchen on the ground floor and well furnished 8 guest rooms each

on the rest of the floors. It is further case of the prosecution that JE

S. Phogat inspected the site on 17.8.93 and reported that a hotel in

the name of "Basera' was being run on plot no. 1, Prasad Nagar,

New Delhi allotted to BMS. Even in the year 1997 unauthorized

construction and misuse of premises was continued due to

complicity of accused Dharamvir Khattar with accused M. K.

Sharma, JE of the DDA. Accused M. K. Sharma was required to CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 4 of 179 5 make a report regarding construction of a hotel on the plot allotted

for temple in Institutional Area, Prasad Nagar. However, in his

report dated 1.5.98 he reported that the building has been

constructed upto top floor with basement and mezzanine floor. He

further reported that the mezzanine floor was being used for Mandir

and Kirtan activities and on the other floors there were number of

rooms. He again reported on 9.6.98 that building plan was

sanctioned by DDA vide letter no. F.13(31)/86/Bldg/172 dated

11.3.86 and the occupancy certificate has been issued upto 2 nd

Floor, with basement and mezzanine floor. He made a false report

by hiding the fact that there was no mezzanine floor and that

instead of first and second floor, there were 1 st, 2nd , 3rd and 4th

Floors. It is case of the prosecution that number of persons and

travel agencies were using the hotel at plot no. 1, Prasad Nagar,

Institutional Area, New Delhi to accommodate their guests.

4 It is further case of the prosecution that accused H. C.

Sharma who was the General Manager of the Hotel, in conspiracy

with accused Dharamvir Khattar was misusing the plot for

commercial purposes which was allotted for religious purpose. The CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 5 of 179 6 prosecution alleges that there was a bar cum restaurant in the hotel

and number of foreign tourists used to occupy the said hotel. The

hotel had a banquet hall where birthday/wedding functions were

frequently organized by the residents of the area. Accused

Dharamvir Khattar in conspiracy with accused K. M. Johri and

accused M. K. Sharma also caused a wrongful loss of

Rs.2,62,810/- to the DDA as the ground rent for the plot was also

not paid for several years. 5 On completion of investigation, charge-sheet was filed

before the Court. Copies of documents were supplied to the

accused persons in compliance with provisions of Section 207

Cr.PC. CHARGE

6 Charge for offences punishable under Sections 420 IPC

and Section 120B IPC read with Section 13(2) read with Section 13

(1) (d) of PC Act were framed against Dharamvir Khattar (A-1). Charge for offences punishable under Sections 120B IPC read with Section 13(2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 6 of 179 7 and substantive offence under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13

(1) (d) of the PC Act were framed against K. M. Johri (A-2). Charge for offences punishable under Sections 120B IPC read with Section 13(2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act

and substantive offence under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13

(1) (d) of the PC Act were framed against K. M. Johri (A-3) vide

order dated 23.09.2006, to which all the accused persons pleaded

not guilty and claimed trial. Prosecution was called upon to lead

evidence. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

7 In order to prove its case, prosecution examined

following witnesses:- PW9-HC Rajender Prasad- Anti Corruption Branch, Govt. of
 NCT
 PW10-Sh. S. Kannu Samay- Manager, Corporation Bank,
 Karur Branch, Tamil Nadu. PW11-Sh. Amar Chaterjee- Deputy Resident Commissioner,
 Govt. of Bihar, Bihar Bhawan,
 New Delhi. PW12-Sh. Akhlesh Kumar Barnwal- Retired from Govt. of UP. PW15-Sh. V. Edward Johonson- Retd. Chief Manager of
 Syndicate Bank, K. G.
 Marg, New Delhi. PW16-Sh. R. S. Yadav - R/o H. No. B-1233, Gali CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 8 of 179 9 No.35, Sant Nagar Burari,
 Delhi. PW17-Sh. J. B. Sharma- Photographic Officer, DDA,
 Vikas Sadan, INA, New
 Delhi. PW18-Sh. Tapan Mandal - Director (Planning) DDA.
 PW19-Sh. R.Laxmi Narayappa- Manager, SBI, Mysore,
 C CPC , Banglore, India. PW20-Sh. N. V. N. Krishnan- DSP, CBI AC-II, New Delhi. persons recorded. In statement under Section 313 CrPC, accused

persons denied all the incriminating material appearing in evidence

against them and claimed innocence. DEFENCE EVIDENCE

9 In their defence, accused persons examined Insp. Arjun

Singh as DW1, Sh. S. K. Arora as DW2 and Sh. Sanjay Upadhaya

as DW3. Defence evidence in the present matter was closed on

24.11.2015. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE : During cross-examination on behalf of A1, this witness

further stated that Atithi is at a distance of 500 yards from his

house. He had seen the sign board Atithi on the right hand corner.

The front of this building is towards the east. He did not know if

Atithi is not a Hotel. No receipt of payment was issued to him. He

did not see any temple in Atithi. He had brought soft drinks from

the outside and the halwa was prepared and served in Atithi. He

did not know if Atithi was running by BMS or if Atithi is a

Dharamshala. This witness was not cross-examined by A2. During cross-examination on behalf of A3, nothing

substantial has been challenged to this witness. During entire cross-examination, it is admitted case of

A1 that there was existence of Atithi though it is claimed that it was

running by BMS and is a Dharamshala. It is also not disputed that

the ring ceremony was performed, as per testimony of PW1, in the

year 1993. Witness stated that nominal charges were paid by him.

However, nothing has been suggested during cross-examination

that Rs.5000/- - Rs.6000/- were paid by him not as charges but as CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 11 of 179 12 donation and receipt was issued to PW1. No such receipt book has

been brought on record. Therefore, there is no serious dispute

raised against the testimony of PW1 by accused persons.

11 PW-2 was retired as Dy. GM, MTNL in the year 2001.

He was living in Flat no. 225 since the year 1997. Sh. Rajinder

Singh Arora was his neighbour. He had performed function of

betrothal ceremony of his daughter in the basement of Atithi

sometime in the year 1992. He stated that the building may have

been constructed in the year 1987 or 1988. This is a five storey

building since the very beginning and never seen any temple in the

compound of this building. He identified photograph of this building

as Ex PW2/A. He did not know if Atithi was later on known as

BMS. He had not seen any religious activity in Atithi. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is stated by

PW2 that since there is a intervening wall between his flat and

Atithi, he could not say whether any function used to be held there

or not. There are two temples near Atithi but he could not tell their

names. Kirtan used to perform in said temples. He further stated

that people used to discuss that a building used to be constructed CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 12 of 179 13 and that is how he knew about construction of the building. It took

two years in constructions of the said building. There is no building

on the back of Atithi. He denied the suggestion that Atithi is a

Dharamshala. He has further stated that he never heard that any

Dharamshala was running in Atithi. There is no challenge to the testimony of this witness on

behalf of A2. During cross-examination on behalf of A3, it is stated

that building may have been constructed in the year 1988-89. He

denied the suggestion that unauthorized construction was made

after the year 1989-90. He stated that he used to seek building

from outside but he entered the building for the first time when he

attended function of sagai ceremony. He denied the suggestion

that building was completed in one row. He further stated that he

was noticing the building since its construction had started. He

neither admitted or denied that if any additions were made in this

building in 1992-93. He further stated that he had given the period

only by approximation but he could not tell if construction of building

was started in the year 1987. Thus, it is clear that from the entire examination and CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 13 of 179 14 cross-examination of PW2 that existence of PW2 at the address

mentioned, has not been disputed. Therefore, it proves that PW2 is

a witness who is living at the address mentioned in his testimony.

The function as held in the basement of Atithi has also not been

disputed. The testimony of PW2 is also not challenged wherein it is

stated that this is a five storey building since the very beginning.

He has clearly stated that it took about 2 years in completion of this

building. He also differentiated between religious functions and

social activities on the one hand and others on the other hand. He

denied the suggestion that Atithi is Dharamshala. He also stated

that construction took place in the year 1987. During arguments, it is submitted on behalf of A3 that

witness is not able to tell the date when the construction of this

building was started or completed as witness has denied the

suggestion that construction was made after the year 1989-90 but

specifically he stated that construction took place in the year 1987- 88. Ex PW2/A is perused wherein it is specifically mentioned that

there was no temple existing in the premises of Atithi hotel.

Moreover, photograph which is part of the statement of Ex PW2/A

wherein ground floor, first floor, second floor, third floor and fourth CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 14 of 179 15 floor are clearly visible. Therefore, testimony of PW2 remained

almost unblemished in as much as the ring ceremony and betrothal

ceremony of the daughter of PW2 has not been challenged. It is

also not challenged that this five storey building was constructed

since the very beginning. No where it is challenged that the

building was not constructed upto five storey since very beginning.

The only suggestion given on behalf of A3 was that the

unauthorized construction was made in the building after the year

1989-90. It is also suggested to PW2 that building was completed

in one row. Another challenge has been given to PW2 that additions

were made in the building in the year 1992-93 but it is not

challenged that the building was constructed in one row. Therefore,

the testimony of PW2 could not be demolished by either of the

accused. 12 PW-3 stated that he was posted as JE (Civil) in

Institutional Building Section of DDA from August, 1993 to May

1994. His duty was to pursue building permits and to submit CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 15 of 179 16 Inspection reports. In addition he was also expected to submit any

special report asked for by any officer. He was expected to inspect

the buildings for which form C, form D, completion

certificate/occupancy certificate had been applied by any party. He

had to serve show cause notice/sealing cum demolition order in

concerned cases. He was directed by Sh. P. S. Uttarwar, Deputy

Director, Institutional Area (Building) to make inspection of

institutional buildings in the area of Prasad Nagar and to submit his

report regarding the same. He inspected 4-5 Institutional plots

where buildings were constructed by allottee. He had inspected the

premises BMS only from outside. On inspection, it was found that

in the building basement, ground floor, first floor, second floor, third

floor and fourth floor were constructed. He was not permitted to

inspect the building from inside. Thereafter, he observed the

building from outside and recorded his notings at the spot in his

diary and prepared his report alongwith rough sketch in his office.

Photocopy of same are Ex PW3/A1 and Ex PW3/A2. Both these

documents were objected by learned counsel being photocopy as

their originals were not proved. Reports were prepared in his

handwriting. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 16 of 179 17 On 18.8.1993, Sh. Ripin Prakash, AE (C) again

inspected the same area in his presence and submitted his report

in his handwriting. Said report is Ex PW3/B. Witness identified

handwriting and signatures of Sh. Ripin Prakash. This document is

objected by learned defence counsel. On 5.11.93 he pasted the show cause notice on plot no.

1, Prasad Nagar, Institutional Area and submitted his report which

was in his handwriting and same is Ex PW3/C (Objected by learned

defence counsel). He contacted the dealing assistant of

Institutional Land, DDA. He told that building file has already been

sent to DDA, L & I, Building. It is further stated by him that he

submitted note sheet in his hand-writing and same is Ex PW3/D.

Sh. Anand, his AE marked the file to him vide his endorsement from

portion B to B for necessary action. Same is Ex PW3/D1.

Thereafter, he prepared his detailed report Ex PW3/D2 in his office.

The unauthorized construction was noted at the spot, as mentioned

in his report from Sl. No. 1 to 6 of Ex PW3/D2. He had taken

photograph after pasting show cause notice. Those photographs

are Ex PW2/A and Ex PW3/E1 to Ex PW3/E4 and negatives are Ex

PW3/F. He further identified the file regarding plot no. 1, Prasad CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 17 of 179 18 Nagar Ex PW3/G (colly whole file). He dealt with this file and

therefore he identified the notings of this file. He further shown note dated 23.10.1993 of Mr. P. S.

Utarwar regarding plot no. 1 of Institutional area allotted to Bhairo Ji

Mandir Samiti vide file no. F8(25)84/IL and lease also executed on

17.01.86. As per noting of P.S. Uttarwar "that the use of the

building is contrary to allotment i.e. institutional, you are requested

to examine and take necessary action for mis-use if any". He further shown note dated 27.10.93 of Mr. P.S.

Uttarwar and the note is sent to Sh. J.P.N Grover, JD (Institutional

Land), DDA. The copy of said note is Mark PW-3/Z.

 This witness was cross-examined at length by counsel

for A1 wherein it is admitted by this witness that his statement was

recorded by the CBI. He further stated that whatever he had stated

to the CBI that was recorded in his statement. He further stated

that he had read his statement there and then only which was

found correct as per his narration. He remembered that he had

visited property no. 1, Institutional Area, Prasad Nagar, 3-4 times

but seen from inside only once. When he had visited inside of the

premises, he had noted down about the construction. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 18 of 179 19 During further cross-examination, he stated that he was

refused to enter the said premises by the staff present there. He

did not disclose his identity. He had spoken to guard to allow him

enter the premises which the guard told him that he would not allow

it. The guard called someone from inside, the said person also did

not allow him to inspect the premises. After one or two days, he

again visited the premises with his immediate boss. Again, they

were not allowed to enter into the premises. Sh. P.S. Uttarwar, Dy.

Director, (L & I, DDA) had not specifically told him that some

construction activities were going on in property No. 1, Prasad

Nagar, Institutional Area. He admitted that he told to CBI at the

time of recording of his statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . that the said

statement was based upon Ex. PW-3/G (colly whole file). Upon specific question, this witness further stated that

document D-11, D-12, D-13, D-14, D-15, D-20, D-21 and D-22

were shown by IO at the time of his examination U/s 161 Cr.P.C .

He further stated that he told that at the time of his examination

under Section 161 CrPC about D-11, D-12, D-13, D-14, D-15, D-20,

D-21 and D-22 to IO but IO did not mention in his statement. He

further denied the suggestion that he had not visited property in CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 19 of 179 20 question i.e. 1, Prasad Nagar, Institutional Area with AE Ripin

Prakash. He further admitted during cross-examination that when

he visited the premises 3-4 times, he had noticed a signboard of

"Bharaon Mandir Society". Vol. 'Basera Bharon Mandir Society'.

Besides 'Basera', he had noticed that it was mentioned in the Board

that Basement for Banquet Hall, Ground Floor for Restaurant and

Offices and Guest House for Upper Floors. The 'Basera' mentioned

in the board was noticed in his first visit and remaining things were

noticed in the year 1994 at the time of detailed inspection. He has further stated that inference from the word

'Basera' was drawn as Guest House from the people met at the

spot. Those people did not disclose their names. He had enquired

from Guard, staff working inside and all of them disclosed that it

is/was a Guest House. He had admitted that premises was leased

for religious and Dharamshala purposes. A suggestion was given

to the witness that no notice was available on Court record but

witness sought permission to see court record. Learned defence

counsel did not object and after seeing the entire file, notice was

found in the Court file and same was Ex PW3/D2. Witness stated CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 20 of 179 21 that it is the same notice which he had pasted at the premises. Dy.

Director Sh. P. S. Uttarwar had issued the said notice.

Photographer had taken photograph of the pasted notice in his

presence. He further denied the suggestion that he never noticed

any guest house in the said premises. During cross-examination on behalf of A2, witness

stated that DDA has various branches like Building Section,

Institutional Land and Enforcement Department and others. Each

and every department/Section has its own duties fixed by the

Department. Misuse of the building is to be verified and checked

by the Institutional Land and Enforcement Department. Building

Section is duty bound to verify unauthorized construction. During cross-examination on behalf of A3, this witness

stated that he could not tell the extent of construction existing on

the property in question as on 23.8.98. He denied the suggestion

that he deliberately not told the CBI that unauthorized construction

was going in the building in the year 1993. Ex PW3/J is perused. It is page 6 of Ex PW3/G (colly

whole file). In Ex PW3/J, it is noted at point C "this is a case of

unauthorized construction". Ex PW3/D1 which is noting made by CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 21 of 179 22 PW3 where it is clearly mentioned that building plan was

sanctioned with 33 % coverage and 100 FAR in which mezzanine

floor and basement is not counted. It is also mentioned in the

noting that building plans were sanctioned/completion issued for

ground floor + first floor + second floor + mezzanine + basement

(only for storage) where as existing are basement + ground floor +

first floor + second floor + third floor + four floor + store and toilet at

terrace floor. Ex PW3/D2 wherein it is clearly mentioned that there

are following main unauthorized construction:- Through lift, he took him to first and second floor. He had looked

two/three rooms and then he came down. The rooms were fitted

with Television, Air conditioner, Double Bed and telephone. He told

the person at reception that he wanted to make entry regarding his

stay. The person told him that they did not have any such register.

Witness told that person that since he could have any record of his CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 25 of 179 26 stay, therefore, he would not take room as anything can happened

to him. At this stage, man at the reception started arguing with him

that the witness was unnecessarily wasting his time. As he was

coming out, there was a small room opposite the reception. He

noticed two young boys taking whiskey. One of the boy came out

and told him that he was owner of the hotel and enquired as to

what was the trouble. He told the boy that his hotel did not have

any tariff card, menu card and any register for the guest. That boy

told him that he was son of the owner and he could get him

anything including whiskey. Witness told him that he did not want

to stay in his hotel and came out. 4-5 of the hotel staff came out

when he was going towards his car. Witness told them that he was

a businessman and hopefully they would meet again very soon. Next morning in the office, he collected his team

Director (V) A. K. Baranwal. Dy. Directors and Asstt. Directors,

Camera photographer, Video photographer and first of all they

raided at 2 Khel Gaon Marg. They officially seized the tariff card,

menu card and the documents which established that regular hotel

was being run over there. The member of the team visited various

rooms. They took photographs and videography from inside as well CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 26 of 179 27 as outside the building. From there they went to plot no. 1, Patel Nagar,

Institutional Area and took the photographs and videography from

the hotel from inside as well as outside. They returned to their

office and submitted report to Vice Chairman to DDA and also to

Hon'ble LG after 1-2 days. Report is Ex PW4/A, which was signed

by witness at point A.

 It is further stated by the witness that during inspection,

of 1, Patel Nagar, Institutional Area alongwith his team, it was found

that a hotel was being run in the building. There were more than 35

rooms in hotel Basera at Patel Nagar though this land was allotted

to BMS Dharamshala. He identified the signatures of Sh. A. K.

Baranwal, Director Vigilance on his report Ex PW4/B at point A.

Photography and videography were deposited in the office. It is further stated by the witness that letter dated

28.5.98 addressed to Smt. Ashma Manzar, Director Land, DDA,

Vikas Sadan. This letter was written by him in connection with

inquiry which was pending in Vigilance Branch of DDA. The letter

is Ex PW4/C. He identified his signatures at point A.

 During cross-examination on behalf of A1, witness CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 27 of 179 28 stated that he joined DDA as Chief Vigilance Officer on 13.7.97

and placed under suspension from DDA w.e.f. 18.8.98. He stated

that telephone call was received by him in his DDA Vigilance Office

on telephone no. 24621489 which was put to him through his PA

inside the room. On second call on his insistence, caller disclosed

his name as Vinod. Both the calls were received on the same day

one after other. He further stated that he was sure that his PA was

not keeping record of his incoming calls. Upon receipt of this call,

he did not depute any of his subordinates to visit the place of the

property regarding which this call was made. He did not make any

official requisition for calling for the records of the two properties.

CBI had collected all the documents in connection with raid

conducted by him. He denied the suggestion that his designation

or his post did not empower him to carry out inspection and

surprise check. His first visit to the property in question was on

10.6.98. At the time of second visit, only the police station of Hauz

Khaz was informed and he also deputed by Assistant to collect the

police report in which they earlier inspected the premises and

issued the NOC for these premises. All these reports were the part

of the DDA record which were seized by the CBI. Mr. A. K. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 28 of 179 29 Barnwal, Director Vigilance had arranged all these photographers.

Out of these one was of DDA and two were private photographers.

The photographers were taken by him only on 11.6.98 alongwith

DDA staff. On 11.6.98, he alongwith officials of Vigilance

Department visited the Patel Nagar property in the afternoon and

photographs were taken in his presence. At that time, he was

inside the premises when the photographs and videography was

done. The number of photographs were 20 if he remembered the

same correctly. He did not remember the time for how long the

videography continued. He denied the suggestion that out of

malice towards A1 he had made wrong statement or he created

false record against A1. He denied the suggestion that there was

no misuse of property in question or that it was being used only for

the purpose in accordance with the terms and conditions of the

lease deed. During cross-examination on behalf of A2, witness

stated that at the time of his first visit, it was a private visit otherwise

if it was an official visit then departmental instructions were that

single officer should avoid the same. He admitted that on second

visit on 11.6.98, he found waiters wearing dhoti and signing CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 29 of 179 30 Bhajans in front of a small statue of Lord Hanuman in a hall in the

second property i.e. Patel Nagar property as informed by

anonymous caller. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of A3. Ex PW4/A is perused. This document bears date

12.06.1998 wherein it is specifically observed about unauthorized

construction of the huge building came up. It is further observed

that DDA officials did not take notice of it and there was nexus

between DDA and unscrupulous builder lobby. Copy of this

document was also sent to Secretary, CVC for information. Ex

PW4/B is also perused. It is also dated 12.06.1998 wherein it is

specifically observed that at the entrance of hotel, there is very

small temple has been established. It is further reported that AE,

JE were not reported the misuse to higher authorities for taking

action. Ex PW4/C is perused. It bears date 28.05.98 wherein it

was reported that four storey air-conditioned hotel on a temple plot

was constructed. Report was not forthcoming even after issuance

of nine reminders. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 30 of 179 31 14 PW- 5 stated that in year 1993, he was posted as

Deputy Director (Buildings) in Layout and Institutional Unit of DDA.

His duties were to comprise of sanction of building plans monitoring

work of the staff of the said unit. He stated that probably in the year

1993-94, some site inspection took place regarding unauthorized

construction and misuse of building. Show cause notice was

issued to some institute namely BMS or something. Concerned AE

and JE must have been instructed to inspect the site. He has

further stated that it is difficult to identify hand-writing of the author

of site inspection report dated 17.8.93 in respect of Patel Nagar

Institutional Area plots no. 1 to 4. However, said report was

submitted by Sh. S. Phogat. He identify his signatures at point A on

the report Ex PW3/A1. He further stated that he knew Rippin

Prakash, AE working under him. He had directed Rippin Prakash

for inspection of plot no. 1 to 4, Prasad Nagar, Institutional Area.

Mr. Phogat was authorized by AE for inspection of the abovesaid

plots. Ex PW3/D2 is the inspection report regarding plot no. 1,

Prasad Nagar Institutional Area given by Mr. Phogat, JE. It bears

endorsement of Sh. Shrish Khodankar in this report at point C.

Mr. Khondankar was his successor. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 31 of 179 32 Ex PW5/1 is the copy of note dated 19.08.1993

whereby it was asked for verification of records bearing his

signatures at point A. They had also submitted Land Protection

Branch and Joint Director Institutional Land for record for

allotment/possession of plot no. 1. It was put by him before Joint

Director for approval and he identified his signatures at point B. He

also proved note date 25.08.93 as Ex PW5/3 which bears his

signatures at point C. Again he put up the note on 26.08.93 which

bears his signatures at point D. He further proved Ex PW3/B which

is site inspection report of Sh. Phogat, JE dated 18.08.93 regarding

unauthorized construction on plot no. 1. He further proved site

inspection report dated 17.08.93 of plot no. 1 to 4 Ex PW3/1/A1.

By this Mr. Phogat recommended that information be asked from

records that if there was any building plan approved or not for BMS

and cases may be referred to Land and Enforcement Section DDA.

Rough sketch plan Ex PW3/A2 which bears signatures of Sh.

Phogat at point A. This report came to the witness through AE. AE

Rippen Prakash was transferred from office of Chief Engineer in a

routine manner. He further referred Ex PW3/C which is pasting

report of the show cause notice pasted by Mr. Phogat at site CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 32 of 179 33 building of BMS, Plot no. 1 Prasad Nagar Institutional Area. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, this witness

stated that when his statement was recorded in the office of CBI, he

almost spent whole day there. No one else accompanied him to

the CBI office. He has further admitted that copy of show cause

notice retained in the file. He further stated that he did not visit the

site and therefore he did not know how far the police station was

away from the property in question. He admitted that he never

visited the property in this case. He denied the suggestion that he

never dealt with the file of Bharon Mandir Samiti,

 During cross-examination on behalf of A2, this witness

stated that Jr. Engineers in his department are supposed to inspect

the site in cases of sanction of building permits and unauthorized

constructions etc or as directed by the Sr. officers from time to time.

He has further stated that he was authorized to give notice for

unauthorized constructions. During cross-examination on behalf of A3, this witness

further stated that D Form, completion/NOC was issued in 1988

and at that time he was not working with Building Department and

as he had not seen these documents. He admitted that site CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 33 of 179 34 inspection was conducted in the year 1993 in which some

unauthorized construction was detected. Upon specific question,

he stated that construction was not processed in the year 1993. He

has further admitted that his field staff reported construction on plot

no.1 in the year 1993. Ex PW5/1, Ex PW5/2 and Ex PW5/3 supported by Ex

PW3/B are perused though objected as photocopy but nowhere it is

challenged that this photocopy has been forged by DDA official.

Therefore, in absence of original, in my considered opinion, if

document is to be read then no prejudice is going to be caused as

this document has been maintained by a government office during

the official course of discharge of duties. In this document, similar

observations have been made as mentioned in Ex PW3/D2.

15 PW6 stated that during October 2002, he visited Delhi

with group of students, teachers and staff and they stayed at BMS

Hotel in Karol Bagh. He identified his entry at Sl. No. 14 in the

register prescribed under regulation place of Public Entertainment.

He has further stated that said entry encircled at point A in his own

hand-writing. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 34 of 179 35 During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is stated by

the witness that he cannot deny whether place where he stayed

was Dharamshala. He also stated that he had seen board of BMS

at the premises but not of BMS Hotel. He did not know the full form

of BMS. Therefore, in entire cross-examination it is not challenged

to the witness that he did not stay at the place regarding which he

deposed. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of remaining accused persons. A suggestion was given to the witness that BMS stands

for Bhairo Mandir Samiti. Witness further stated that he has seen

board of BMS at the premises but not of BMS Hotel. Therefore, this

Court observes that BMS displayed at the hotel must be with object

to mislead the government authorities. If there was no intention to

use the premises as hotel then definitely instead of writing BMS it

should be written as Bhairo Mandir Samiti/Society. This Court can

take judicial notice of the intention of A1 that BMS was written so

that prospective guest/customer should be attracted to the hotel

and they may avail the services for the hotel. Bhairo Mandir Samiti

was not written so that it should not come in the mind of the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 35 of 179 36 customer that it is not a hotel but only a Bhairo Mandir Samiti i.e.

religious place or luxuries of hotel would not be available there.

Very conveniently it was written as 'BMS' to mislead the

government agencies so that it can be used as protection /shield

from the government agency i.e. DDA so that a defence can be

taken regarding Bhario Mandir Samiti/religious place. This Court is

of the view that what stopped A1 to written Bhairo Mandir Society

completely. No religious place or temple would write BMS or name

of any temple in short form. If it was a temple then it should be

written completely i.e. Bhairo Mandir Samiti not 'BMS'. BMS gives

an obvious impression that a stranger cannot get impression that

BMS means Bhairo Mandir Samiti. Therefore, the testimony of

PW6 specifically proved that the place where PW6 stayed was not

a religious place but 'BMS' Hotel. Moreover, nowhere it is

challenged to this witness by defence that there was symbols

relating to a temple visible at the spot i.e. any temple bells,

manjiras, dholak etc were visible. Even construction of a temple or

dharamshala is always different which gives impression to any

passerby about existence of temple. It is also not suggested to the

witness that like temple he was not allowed to enter into the temple CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 36 of 179 37 with his shoes/chappal. Nothing as such has been suggested to

this witness. It is observed by this Court as matter of common

knowledge, when a person enters into a temple, then he has to

remove his shoe/chappal etc. as it is against the tenets of

Mandir/temple to enter with wearing shoes/chappal. Moreover,

PW6 must aware about Hindu culture that he if would enter into a

temple of Bahiro ji then definitely he would not say that he had

stayed in a hotel because in hotel anyone can allow to enter with

his shoe/chappal. It is further pertinent to mention that almost

outside of every temple there are vendros/shops from where

devotees purchase items like flowers, garlands, scented sticks,

diyas, etc. for worship of the idols. Moreover, in Dharamshala

also there are different ambiance and atmosphere which reflect in

the mind of the person to be entered inside about its specific

identify. Moreover, during cross-examination, he referred his entry

at Mark A but defence nowhere puts to this witness that a register

was being maintained in Bhairo Mandir Dharamshala/Samiti. The

court can take judicial notice of a very fact that every Dharamshala

also regularly maintains register of pilgrims stay therein. Nowhere

the said document is put to the witness or brought before this Court CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 37 of 179 38 by A1. Moreover, Dharamshala also issued receipt for donation

received from pilgrims who stayed there. Nowhere during entire

trial any such receipt book has been brought before this Court.

16 PW-7 stated that in June 2004, he was posted as

Assistant Divisional Officer in Prashad Nagar, Fire Station. One

day he attended the office of CBI and handed over one file to the

CBI in respect of Atithi Guest House, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi.

However, this witness was not examined completely therefore, his

testimony cannot be relied upon. 17 PW-8 stated that in the year 2002, he was in the

employment of M/s Supreme Universe Destination, a travel agency

and he used to work as its Manager in the year 2002 alongwith a

group of student came Delhi and stayed in BMS Hotel. He has

seen photocopy of D-8 which is Mark A. The relevant entry is at Sl.

No. 12 in his own hand-writing. He did not know about the activities

of BMS Hotel. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged. Nothing has been suggested to this witness that he

stayed not in any hotel but in a Dharamshala and whatever he had CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 38 of 179 39 paid not as charges to stay therein but only as donation for which

receipt was issued. It is also not suggested to the witness that like

temple he was not allowed to enter into the temple with his

shoes/chappal. Nothing as such has been suggested to this

witness also. It is already observed by this Court hereinabove that

as matter of common knowledge, when a person enters into a

temple, then he has to remove his shoe/chappal etc. as it is against

the tenets/customs of Mandir/temple to enter with wearing

shoes/chappal. 18 PW-9 stated that in June 2004, he was posted in

Licensing Branch of Delhi Police and in the said Branch and Hotel

Section, there was one Sub Inspector and three Head constables

beside him. SI Nalini Mahajan was the incharge and the Section

was supervised by Inspector Leela Ram. He had handed over two

files pertaining to two properties one of which was situated in East

Patel Nagar and the other situated in Siri Fort Institutional Area,

New Delhi. Both were related to Dharamvir Khattar (A1). He

remained posted in the Licensing Branch from May, 2002 to CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 39 of 179 40 January, 2006. He was custodian of these two files maintained at the

office of DCP Licensing of Delhi Police. File No.I (D-23/1) is Ex

PW9/1 and File No.II (D-23/2) is Ex PW9/2. These files were given

to CBI on 15.06.04 vide letter Ex PW9/3. It bears signatures of Sh.

R. P. Sharma, ACP License at point A.

 On page 1 of File No. II which is the application

received from Dharamvir Khattar and the same is Ex PW9/4.

Alongwith application, there are documents in photostat which are

copy of the Perpetual Lease Deed dated 17.01.86 executed

between BMS and DDA mentioning therein for religious purpose.

Same is Ex PW9/4/1. Site plan of BMS situated at 1, East Patel Nagar, New

Delhi. Same is Ex PW9/6. Letter of Fire Department dated 21.8.01

issued by Deputy Chief Fire Officer, Delhi Fire Services with regard

to the subject Inspection Report from Fire Safety Point of View for

grant of license to run a Guest House/Hotel in the name and style

Atithi Guest House situated at premises no. 1, East Patel Nagar,

New Delhi. Same is Ex PW9/7. Show cause notice issued vide no.

22466-67 dated 14.9.2001 of DCP Licensing, New Delhi addressed CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 40 of 179 41 to A1 is Ex PW9/8. Show cause notice issued vide no. 21573-72

dated 30.07.03 to DCP Licensing New Delhi addressed to A1 is Ex

PW9/9. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it was stated

by witness that supervisory power of the Insp. Leela Ram was to

sent file to the superior officers through him. He has admitted that

he did not have any authority to participate in the process of issuing

of license of his own. He admitted that application moved by A1 which is Ex

PW9/4 was for the purpose of grant of license of Dharamshala at 1

East Patel Nagar, behind Kalinidi College, New Delhi. Testimony of

this witness remained unchallenged on behalf of other accused

persons. Ex PW9/2 is perused wherein A1 has mentioned his

address as 431, Mathura Road, New Delhi where he was seeking

to grant license to run a guest house under the name and style of

Dharamshala at 1, East Patel Nagar, behind Kalindi College, New

Delhi, plot measured as 600 square metere wherein it is specifically

mentioned that 8 rooms at first floor, 8 rooms at second floor and 8

rooms at third floor, 8 rooms on fourth floor. It was also mentioned CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 41 of 179 42 that there was no room at ground floor. It bears the signatures of

ACP/Inspector. Moreover, Ex PW9/4 which is a format of application for

grant of license under Entertainment Regulation Act wherein

address has mentioned as 1, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi but no

where mentioned that it was a religious premises. Therefore,

perusal of the entire testimony of PW9 and documents show that

A1 has sought license to run an entertainment place not a religious

place from the Police Department as well as from Fire Safety

Department. 19 PW-10 stated that in June, 2003 that he was working as

an officer, Corporation Bank, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New

Delhi. He proved videography memo in PE No. 5(A)/2003. Same

is Ex PW10/1. He has further stated that it was a Mandir (Temple)

like situation. The structure was built as ground floor, first floor,

second floor, third floor and fourth floor. There was temple

structure on the ground floor, on first floor and second floor, there

were some rooms and at top floor there were water tanks. He

further stated that Ex PW10/1 was prepared at the spot and he CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 42 of 179 43 signed it. He has further stated that at the time of visiting there was

no priest in the temple. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of other accused. During entire testimony of PW10 there was no

challenge to the testimony of the witness about any presence of

priest in the premises. It was not challenged that no videography

was taken place in his presence. 20 PW-11 has stated that he joined DDA in November, 96

as Deputy Secretary. He was working as Deputy Director (IL) from

July 97 to September 98. He has further stated that Ex PW4/C was

issued by Brijender Rai asking report from Smt. Asma Manzer,

Director Land and Ms. Asma Manzer in turn had asked report from

some JE. The report of JE is encircled at point B and this report

was forwarded by AE to Director and then Director marked it to the

office of PW1. Signatures of Ms. Asma Manzer is at point E. The

endorsement of Ms. Asma Manzer was to the effect that issue a

show cause notice and it was endorsed by PW11 to the Dealing

Assistant. His signatures at point F. He identified his report has Ex CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 43 of 179 44 PW4/B which was a correct report prepared on the basis of visit by

him and other members of the Team headed by CVO. It is further

stated that Vigilance Department had conducted the inspection and

they were requested to join the said team. 21 PW-12 stated that he joined DDA on deputation in the

year 1994 to July, 99. Initially, he worked as Director Land and

thereafter as Director Vigilance. He has further stated that 1, East

Patel Nagar Institutional Area has been allotted to BMS but on the

site one hotel with 35 rooms with the facilities of AC, TV and

attached toilets were found during investigation. Lift facility was

also available. At the entrance of the hotel a very small space was

available where Bhairon Ji Temple was established. Both the institutional sites were being misused and the

concerned AE and JE have not reported the misuse to the higher

authorities for taking action. DD institutional showed ignorance

about the misuse being carried out by both the societies. Both the

building plans were sanctioned and C and D forms were issued

without proper site inspections. He has proved copy of DO letter dated 4.4.97 CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 44 of 179 45 addressed to Sh. S. Roy, the then Commissioner Land DDA. The

letter is Mark PX PW11/1 and which was exhibited as Ex PW12/1.

It bears his signatures at point A. The letter is reminder of letter

dated 29.10.92. Subsequent reminders were 5.1.94, 1.9.94 and

20.1.97 regarding construction of hotel on a temple plot institutional

area Prasad Nagar for which the action taken report was called but

no report was received so far and the Commissioner Land was

further requested to look into the matter and expedite the matter. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is

suggested to PW12 that Ex PW4/B is the carbon copy and it is a

fake document. Suggestion was denied. It is admitted that as per

Ex PW4/B there was no mention that any document collected

during the survey being annexed to it. It is admitted by the witness

that Ex PW4/B was prepared by him while sitting in his office in

DDA. It is further stated that he did not prepare any document

reflecting that any site plan was prepared regarding subject

properties. Tariff card and menu card mentioned in Ex PW4/B

would be available in the vigilance file of DDA. He denied the

suggestion that he never inspected the subject property. During cross-examination on behalf of A2, it is stated by CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 45 of 179 46 the witness that generally AE and JE act upon the report of

surveyor. It is admitted that Ex PW12/1 is photocopy and its

original is not on record. A3 adopted the cross-examination

conducted on behalf of A1. 22 PW-13 stated that in December 2003, he was working

as Accounts Officer (Institutional Land) DDA, Vikas Sadan, New

Delhi. He proved letter dated 11.12.03 as Ex PW13/1 which bears

his signatures at point A. This document contained information

desired by CBI in respect of ground rent, interest thereon in respect

of institutional plot no. 1 near Kalinidi College. The ground rent in

respect of plot no. 1 worked out to Rs.50,408/- and the cost of this

land is Rs.1,18,606/- as per record available. Testimony of this

witness remained unchallenged on behalf of all the accused

persons. 23 PW-14 stated that in August 1988 he was working as

AE (Building) DDA, Vikas Sadan, INA. He worked AE since

November, 1987. He proved occupancy certificate dated

25.08.1988 as Ex PW14/1. It was issued in favour of BMS, East CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 46 of 179 47 Patel Nagar, New Delhi. The description of structure mentioned in

this document in detail and he proved his signatures at this

document at point A. The occupancy certificate issued by him

after taking approval from competent authority. It was duly

approved by Dy. Director (Building) Sh. P. M. Parate and finally

approved by Joint Director (Building). He further proved NOC

Report form No. R-7 prepared by A3 as Ex PW14/2. He proved

signatures of A3 at point A and his signatures at point B. He further

supported that inspection was carried out by A3 and recommended

on the basis of that report to the higher ups to take further action in

the matter. Witness further stated that he did not make any

personal visit for the spot inspection. It was marked by him to Mr.

Prate, Dy. Director (Building), DDA. Thereafter, he was again

recommended by Dy. Director to Joint Director. He identified

signatures of Mr. Parate at point C. It was duly approved by Joint

Director at point D and after preparing all the details, it was signed

by him. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is stated by

the witness that all the signatures identified by him were not made

in his presence or noting in the file made by those officers were CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 47 of 179 48 also not made in his presence. He has further admitted that he did

not visit the plot in his tenure in the branch. He admitted that as

and when a note is put to the senior officer by a junior officer then it

is discretionary to him either to approve or disapprove it. He

admitted that order of discussing the matter is given by senior on

the file in writing always. There is no serious challenge on behalf

of A2 & A3 to the testimony of this witness. 24 PW-15 stated that on 21.06.04, he was working as

Chief Manager of Central Accounts Officer, Syndicate Bank, K. G.

Marg, New Delhi. He proved record of three original DDs and three

photocopies of DD application forms as Ex PW15/1. He has

identified his signatures at point A. He further proved original DDs

as Ex PW15/2 to Ex PW15/4 though it was objected to mode of

proof on behalf of defence. He also proved DD application forms

as Ex PW15/5 and Ex PW15/7 though it was also objected to mode

of proof on behalf of defence. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, he has

admitted that he has not dealt with this current account where from

amount of purchase of DDs was transferred from current account. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 48 of 179 49 Ex PW15/10 is perused. It is letter written of SP CBI

ACP for enclosing Ex PW15/2 to Ex PW15/7. Ex PW15/2 is

perused. It is in favour of BMS and similarly other documents Ex

PW15/3, Ex PW15/4 to Ex PW15/7 are in favour of BMS. It is not a

case of accused that this amount was not transferred in favour of

the BMS. However, nowhere it is suggested that account of BMS

was for religious institution for which only donations were remitted

by the devotees and not as charges for hotel. 25 PW-16 stated that he has passed Diploma in Civil

Engineering in the year 1988. He was doing work of preparing site

plan, valuation report and also prepared the inspection report as

per the requirement of the parties approaching him for the work.

He was registered with MCD and having registration no. S-1106. It

is further stated by him that Ex PW9/2 relates to a property known

as Dharamshala, 1, East Patel Nagar, Shri Bhairo Ji Mandir Samiti,

Delhi. It is further stated by him that he has further shown the

photocopy of the structure dated 23.10.99 and stated it was issued

by him. He has further stated that site plan is Ex PW9/6 was

prepared by him on the asking of Dharamvir Khattar. He visited the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 49 of 179 50 site and structure on the ground floor, first floor, second floor, third

floor and fourth floor was constructed. Witness identified his

signatures on the site plan at point A alongwith rubber stamp. It

was constructed as per site plan. He found that rooms in the

property were furnished with AC facilities. He did not find religious

activity at the site. He did not see approved site plan of the

property. He was paid charge of Rs.700/- for preparing the site

plan. Ex PW9/6 which was prepared on 30.10.99. Testimony of

this witness remained unchallenged by all the accused. Ex PW9/6 is perused. The witness categorically stated

that site plan was prepared on 30.10.1999 and the same is perused

wherein ground floor, first floor, second floor, third floor and fourth

floor have been shown. The key plan to reach at the site is also

mentioned in the site plan. It is specifically stated by the witness

that this site plan was prepared on the asking of A1 and there is no

challenge to the testimony of this witness. This court observes that

the site plan was prepared after inspection of the premises as the

witness specifically stated that it had construction as shown in Ex

PW9/6. Therefore, on the date of inspection carried out by PW16

of such floors were existing as shown in the site plan Ex PW9/6. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 50 of 179 51 26 PW-17 stated that during November 1993, he was

posted as photographer in Video Section, DDA, Vikas Sadan. He

was posted in the same capacity in 1983 to 2005. On 05.11.93, Sh.

R. K. Jairath, Photographic Officer was his immediate boss and

who ordered him to cover site alongwith JE Sh. Phogat at Plot no.

1, Patel Nagar where he pasted show cause notice and he had

taken photograph of the said building. He proved the register for

the period 1991 to 1994 which was maintained by him in the official

course of duties. Same is Ex PW17/1. The entry pertaining to visit

at Sl. No. 1 dated 5.11.93 of year 1986 which was in his

handwriting. Same is under his signatures at point A and

signatures of Sh. R. K. Jairath at point B as he acquainted with the

signatures of Sh. R. K. Jairath as he worked with him. Said entry is

Ex PW17/2. He further identified the photographs Ex PW3/E1 and

Ex PW3/E4. Ex PW2/A and its negative Ex PW3/F (five) having

signatures on photographs and negatives. He confirmed that these

were taken by him. The photographs were instructed to be

displayed on the notice put up on the building by JE concerned and

while taking the photographs, he put newspaper to confirm date of

the fact of such photographs. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 51 of 179 52 During cross-examination on behalf of A1, witness

stated that photographs did not display the property identification

number. He further stated that he did not enter into the building or

made attempt to talk with any occupant of the building personally.

He denied the suggestion that he is deposing falsely regarding his

visit to any building or taking photographs. Ex PW7/1 was taken

from his possession in CBI office. He has further stated that he is

resident of Delhi and knew the distance between Pitampura and

Prasad Nagar which is approx. 15 kms. He denied the suggestion

that he deposed at the instance of CBI and concealed correct and

true facts. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of other accused. 27 PW-18 stated that he has joined as Asstt. Director

Planning of DDA in the year 1982. He has shown sanction plan of

BMS Plot no. 1, near Kalinidi College Institutional Area East Patel

Nagar was submitted by the owner of the property i.e. A1 and the

name of architect was Sh. T. K. Sarkar. The sanctioned plan

contains the ground floor plan, first floor plan, second floor plan,

mezzanine floor plan, basement plan and front elevation. The CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 52 of 179 53 basement contains storage purpose, ground floor is consisting of

three rooms, one sitting area, one manager room, accounts room

and store, lift, toilets and mezzanine floor is having four stores

alongwith provisions of stair case, first floor plan is having provision

of library, reading, dispensary doctor/waiting room, yoga ladies

room and yoga gents rooms, store, one toilet, two bath and stair

case and lift from the ground floor. There is no provision for

balcony on first floor in the sanctioned plan. The second floor plan

is having provision for prayer hall mediation room - one ladies and

another for gents, three stores, one pantry, two toilets. He proved

site plan Ex PW18/1 which was sanctioned on 11.03.1986. He has

further stated that in this plan there is not sanction for balcony on

any of the floor. He has further shown the proposed completion for

BMS in plot no. 1, near Kalindi College which bears signatures of

A1. The site plan is Ex PW18/2. The plan at the first floor and

second floor shows the existence of balcony. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is

submitted by the witness that an application was submitted for

seeking completion certificate through an architect and also filed

with the application, a plan as per the existing building erected by CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 53 of 179 54 him. He has admitted that there may be some alteration/additions

in such completion plan when it is compared with the sanctioned

plan. He has further stated that both plans Ex PW18/1 and Ex

PW18/2 were not processed by him for the purpose of assessing

the completion certificate with regard to the property of BMS which

is mentioned in the respective plans. The testimony of this witness

remained unchallenged on behalf of A2. During cross-examination

on behalf of A3, this witness stated that neither sanction plan nor

completion plan is signed by him nor he had dealt with it. During entire cross-examination, the testimony of the

witness remained unchallenged regarding construction as per

sanctioned plan contained ground floor, second floor and

mezzanine floor and front roof. Witness stated that there was no

provision of balcony on any of the floor. However, this part of the

testimony of this witness remained unchallenged.

28 PW-19, proved forwarding letter addressed to Shri

N.V.N. Krishnan, Insp. CBI vide which he forwarded seven original

DD Forms as asked by him. Same is Ex. PW 19/1 bearing his

signatures at point A. The original DD application Form dated CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 54 of 179 55 11.10.2000 for Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one

S.A. Azam. Same is Ex. PW 19/2. Against this, a DD number

113897 was issued and copy thereof is Ex. PW 19/3. The original DD application Form dated 31.07.2001 for

Rs. 20,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one Sayeed

Tanzam Ahmed. Same is Ex. PW 19/4. Against this, a DD number

114116 was issued and copy thereof is Ex. PW 19/5. The original DD application Form dated 06.11.2001 for

Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one S.A. Azam.

Same is Ex. PW 19/6. Against this, a DD number 114029 was

issued and copy thereof is Ex. PW 19/7. The original DD application Form dated 08.01.2002 for

Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one S.A. Azeem.

Same is Ex. PW 19/8. Against this, a DD number 114259 was

issued and copy thereof is Ex. PW 19/9. The original DD application Form dated 06.09.2002 for

Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one S.A. Azeem.

Same is Ex. PW 19/10. Against this, a DD was issued. The original DD application Form dated 22.11.2002 for

Rs. 3,500/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one S.A. Azeem. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 55 of 179 56 Same is Ex. PW 19/11. Against this, a DD number 115941 was

issued. The original DD application Form dated 23.10.2002 for

Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS was submitted by one S.A. Azeem.

Same is Ex. PW 19/12. Against this, a DD was issued. All the above original DD Forms bear the stamp of his

branch at point A, where he was working at that time. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, he stated that

his signatures did not appear on Ex PW19/1 to Ex PW19/2. He

was not posted in the branch during the period when drafts

ExPW19/1 to Ex PW1/2 were prepared. He did not know the full

form of BMS. The entire testimony of this witness shows that the

amount was remitted in favour of BMS as document regarding

payment as clearly mentioned. Moreover, there is Ex PW20/2

which is original bank draft for payment, which was also realized in

favour of BMS. The testimony of this witness remained

unchallenged. However, nothing has been suggested to the

witnesses that the payment was remitted by the devotee as

donation. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 56 of 179 57 29 PW-20 stated that he was directed to conduct part

investigation. During part investigation, he recorded the statement

of witnesses and seized some documents. He proved seizure

memo Ex PW20/1 dated 21.06.2004 signed by him at point A.

Documents were seized from Shri R.P. Gupta, Manager of the bank

who has also signed this memo at point B. He further seized three

DDs which are Ex. PW 15/2, Ex PW 15/4 and Ex. PW 20/2 . He

also seized certified copy of three applications Ex. PW 15/5 to Ex

PW15/7. He also seized the documents vide memo dated

14.06.2004 consisting two pages and second page was signed by

him at point A. Vide this memo he had seized sixteen documents

from Mr S.A. Azeem, Prop of M/s. Supreme Universe International

at Bangalore. Memo is Ex. PW 20/3 which was also signed by Mr

Azeem at point B on its second page. He also examined five

witnesses out of which three were from Bangalore and other two

witnesses were from Delhi. The examination of said witnesses

establishes that the property in dispute were used for commercial

purpose. He further proved production cum seizure memo dated

14.03.2004. Through this seizure memo, 19 documents mentioned CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 57 of 179 58 therein were seized from S. A. Azim, proprietor of M/s Supreme

Universe International. Seizure memo is Ex PW20/4. It bears

signatures of S. A. Azim at point B on first and last page. Testimony

of this witness remained unchallenged on behalf of all the accused

persons. 30 PW-21 stated that on 14.06.2003 he alongwith

Inspector H.K. Lal, Inspector S.S. Bhullar, Inspector R.K. Rishi, SI

Prem Nath and one independent witness Sh. Kanu Swamy, Officer

of Corporation Bank, CGO Complex Branch had visited plot no. 1,

East Patel Nagar, Institutional Area for the purpose of videography

of the premises. He reached there at about 13:30 hrs. They found one

Sh. Hukam Chand Sharma Manager who was informed about the

purpose of visit. He readily agreed for the same. Sh. Hukam

Chand Sharma had informed them that the said premises was in

the name of Bhairon Mandir Samiti. The premises was consisting

of basement, ground floor and four floors consisting of eight rooms

on each floor. They also observed small temple of Bhairon at this

premises. Sh. Prem Nath the then SI was directed to conduct the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 58 of 179 59 videography of the premises. He inserted panasonic cassette in

panasonic video camera. The videography was recorded in two

cassettes i.e. cassette no. 1 and 2. All the particulars have been

mentioned in the videography memo (3 pages) was Ex.PW10/1. It

bears his signatures at point B on all three pages. Testimony of this

witness remained unchallenged on behalf of all the accused

persons. 31 PW-22 stated similar facts in his testimony. He further

identified signatures of SI Prem Nath at point B whereas his

signatures at point C on all the three pages and signatures of H. K.

Lal at point D on Ex PW10/A. He also identified signatures of S. S.

Bhullar at point F on Ex PW10/A.

 During cross-examination on behalf of A1, he denied the

suggestion that he was a planted witness of CBI. He stated that he

signed Ex.PW10/1 after going through its contents. He also stated

that he did not remember whether any board of Bharon Mandir

Samiti or Bharon Mandir was mounted on the building. He has

further stated that he did not remember whether any disclosure was

made before IO by any of the occupant of the building that the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 59 of 179 60 premises at the basement is available for public in general, on

nominal donation to the Mandir for social functions like marriage,

uthala etc. He further stated that contents of Ex.PW10/1 reflect that

the premises was used for marriage purposes by general public.

He denied that no videography was conducted in his presence. He

denied the suggestion that that there was no person by the name of

Hukum Chand Sharma, associated with Bharon Mandir Samiti or

Bharon Mandir (Temple). Testimony of this witness remained

unchallenged on behalf of A2 and A3. 32 PW23 stated that In the year 2003 he was posted as

Zonal Inspector (ZI), MCD, Karol Bagh Zone. He handed over a file

of Bhairon Mandir Samiti, plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, near Kalindi

College, Karol Bagh Zone (Special Cell) to H.K. Lal, Inspector CBI,

New Delhi on the instructions of Alka R. Sharma, Joint Assessor &

Collector, Karol Bagh. This file is Ex.PW23/1 (colly.)

 He proved letter dated 28.11.2003 bearing no.

Tax/KBZ/SC/2003-04/522 through which documents handed over to

H.K. Lal Inspector, CBI, New Delhi by Alka R. Sharma, Joint

Assessor & Collector, Karol Bagh. The letter is Ex.PW23/2. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 60 of 179 61 He proved inspection report of AZI (Asstt. Zonal

Inspector) dated 30.03.1992 regarding erection of building of Sh.

Bhairon Mandir Samiti, plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi. AZI

inspected the said building and found that the property comprised

of basement, ground floor, first floor, second floor, third floor, fourth

floor. This building is known as Atithi Hotel. This document is

Ex.PW23/3. He also identified the signature of Ajit Singh AZI at

point A as he seen him writing and signing during the official course

of duties. He proposed rateable value of the said premises

amounting to Rs.18,80,820/- which was enhanced by Asstt.

Assessor & Collector to Rs.19 lacs. He has further proved notice u/s 126 of DMC Act dated

30.03.1992 addressed to President, Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti

(Regd.) for amounting to Rs.19 lacs w.e.f. 01.03.1992 regarding

property at plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi issued by C.R.

Sharma, Asstt. Assessor & Collector, Karol Bagh Zone, MCD. He

identified his signatures at point A as he had worked with him. This

document is Ex.PW23/4. He further proved notice u/s 126 of DMC Act dated

28.03.1993 bearing no. 12181 addressed to President, Sh. Bhairon CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 61 of 179 62 Mandir Samiti (Regd.) (Atithi Hotel) for amounting to Rs.19,98,690/-

regarding the property at plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi issued

by B.R. Malhotra, Deputy Assessor & Collector, Special Cell 4, SP

Mukherjee Marg due to addition at ground floor and addition of fifth

floor. This document is Ex.PW23/5. He has further proved page of inspection book serial no.

43407 addressed to President, Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti, Plot no.

1, East Patel Nagar. This is regarding addition at ground floor and

addition of fifth floor. This document is now Ex.PW23/6. In the

inspection report that additional portions are also being used as

commercial. He has further stated that it is the practice in MCD that

file relating to RV (Rateable Value) above Rs.10 lacs forwarded to

Special Cell, Minto Road, HQ, Delhi. So this file was also sent to

the Special Cell. He has proved assessment order signed on 10.01.1995

bearing no. 8265. This letter is signed by B.L. Kardam, Dy.

Assessor & Collector, C No. X. This order is addressed to

President, Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti regarding Plot no. 1, East

Patel Nagar near Kalindi College, New Delhi. This document is CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 62 of 179 63 Ex.PW23/7. He has proved exparte order dated 29.02.1996 by B.C.

Meena, Joint Assessor & Collector, SA-II addressed to President,

Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti regarding Plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar

near Kalindi College. This document is Ex.PW23/8 (internal page

no. 38). He has proved letter of President, Sh. Bhairon Mandir

Samiti (Regd.), plot no. 1 East Patel Nagar, near Kalindi College,

New Delhi requesting to reconsider his case and grant him

exemption from house tax of property at plot no. 1, East Patel

Nagar, near Kalindi College, New Delhi. This document is

Ex.PW23/9 (colly. two pages)

 At page 70 of Ex.PW23/1 (colly.) which is assessment

order addressed to Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti, plot no. 1 East Patel

Nagar, dated 23.03.1996. This assessment order was issued by

B.C. Meena, Joint Assessor and Collector/SAU-II. Through this

order RV was decided as Rs.2,34,000/- (exempted) and

Rs.2,34,000/- (non exempted) w.e.f. 01.04.1993. Due to adoption

of new assessment bye-laws from 01.04.1994 the standard

deduction has to be allowed @ 15% instead of 10% earlier. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 63 of 179 64 Accordingly w.e.f. 01.04.1994 the RV are decided as 1)

Rs.2,21,000/- (exempted) and 2) Rs.2,21,000/- (non exempted).

The reason is also mentioned for the exemption in the said order.

This document is Ex.PW23/10. At page 80 of Ex.PW23/1 (colly.) which is inspection

report dated 21.03.1998 regarding the property of Sh. Bhairon Ji

Mandir, Plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, near Kalindi College

addressed to the President Sh. Bhairon Ji Mandir Samiti. As per

this order RV is proposed of Rs.20 Lacs due to change of use in

the property. This document is Ex.PW23/11. At page 87 of Ex.PW23/1 which is assessment order

addressed to President, Sh. Bhairon Mandir Samiti, East Patel

Nagar, near Kalindi College by Sangeeta Kampani, Joint Assessor

& Collector. This is an exparte order through which Joint Assessor

& Collector confirmed the proposed RV of Rs.20 Lac w.e.f.

01.04.1997 due to non submission of required documents. This

document is Ex.PW23/12. It is also mentioned in this order billing

be made as per use of the property. At page 89 of file Ex.PW23/1(collectively) which is a

transfer memo dated 12.11.2001 bearing no. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 64 of 179 65 Tax/HQ/RKP/2001/439 regarding transfer of assessment

file/demand in respect of property no.1, East Patel Nagar, near

Kalindi College, New Delhi. As per the document recorded owner

Sh. Bhairon Mandir, plot no.1, East Patel Nagar, Near Kalindi

College, New Delhi. This document show the rateable value of Rs.

20 lac w.e.f. 1.4.1997 and dues shows Rs.32,81,872/-. This

document is Ex. PW23/13. At page 90 of file Ex.PW23/1(collectively) which is

demand notice dated 9.8.2002 bearing ledger folio no.50/7053

addressed to Sh. Bhairon Mandir, plot no.1, East Patel Nagar, Near

Kalindi College, New Delhi. This document shows the tax of Rs.

32,81,872/-. It bears the signature of K. Vijayan alongwith seal at

point A. He identify his signature as he had worked with him and

seen him writing and signing. This document is Ex. PW23/14. At page 91 of file Ex.PW23/1(collectively) which is a

note sheet of MCD which shows that Joint A&C marked filed to AZI

for ID action i.e. increase, decrease action for pending proposal

w.e.f. 1.4.97 is decided and AZI is directed to take ID action and

send the bill. Thereafter AZI marked to Bill Clerk for the same.

After reading the note sheet dated 9.10. This document is CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 65 of 179 66 Ex.PW23/15, wherein there is a mention of 'may kindly see the said

assessment file of Bhairon Mandir Samiti in East Patel Nagar'. He

inspected the property. There is one small room which owner is

using as Mandir. This is a five storey building. The owner is

running a hotel at site. He has further stated that Mandir is exempted for the

levy of property tax. At page 80 of file Ex.PW23/1 (collectively) which is an

inspection report dated 21.3.98 bearing no. 54531 already

Ex.PW23/11. This report shows one room measuring 12 x 10 ft. at

ground floor and commercial 2130 sq. ft. and idol of Sh. Bhairon Ji

covered with glass. During cross-examination on behalf of A1 and A2, this

witness stated that Ex PW23/2 to Ex PW23/15 were not drawn or

prepared or signed or issued in his presence. He has further stated

that none of the notices is received or signed in his presence. In cross-examination on behalf of A3, witness admitted

that since additional construction was noted in the building plot

no.1, East Patel Nagar, Kalindi College Road, Parsad Nagar

therefore, the notice was issued on 29.3.1993. He has further CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 66 of 179 67 stated that due to the addition in construction it was proposed to

increase the rateable value for house tax vide notice Ex.PW23/5

w.e.f. 1.4.93. He further admitted that vide decision taken by Jt.

Assessor & Collector already Ex.PW23/10 the date of completion of

building was taken as 1.4.93. He has further stated that as per file

Ex.PW23/1 (collectively) prior to this notice dated 30.3.1992 was

issued. 33 PW-24 stated that on 14.06.2003 he was posted as Sub

Inspector to assist Sh. Umesh Vashisht, Inspector for videography

of premises of Plot No. 1, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi, in

connection in PE No. 5A/2003. In this regard, a team was

constituted which also included an independent witness as Sh.

Kanu Swami from Corporation Bank of India, CGO Complex, New

Delhi. He further stated that premises was videographed by him

and videograph memo was prepared at the spot. He further stated

that videograph memo bears his signatures at point A and the

independent witness also signed videography memo. He further

proved that Sh. H. C. Sharma also signed recovery memo on all the

pages at point X in token of receipt of videography memo. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 67 of 179 68 During cross-examination on behalf of A1, this witness

admitted that no departure entry was made on 14.06.2003. He

further stated that it was not compulsory to make departure entry.

He could not say whether there was any board of any Dharamshala

or Mandir at plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi. He denied the

suggestion that he has made false deposition at the behest of CBI.

He further denied the suggestion that he never conducted any

videography at the spot or that he had submitted fabricated

cassettes. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of A2 and A3. 34 PW-25 stated that in June 2004, he was posted as DSP

in CBI, ACB, New Delhi on the instructions of the then SP Sh. S. C.

Tiwari. He rendered his assistance in investigation of this case by

recording statements of four witnesses namely Sh. Brijender Rai,

Sh. Hari Kishan, Sh. Rajinder Prasad & Sh. R. S.Yadav in the

month of 2004. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, this witness

admitted that he recorded aforementioned statement of the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 68 of 179 69 witnesses. He denied the suggestion that statement under Section

161 CrPC was manipulated. During cross-examination on behalf of A2, he stated that

he did not check the veracity of alleged statement recorded under Section 161 CrPC by him or referred by the witness. Thereafter,

counsel for A2 adopted the cross-examination conducted by A1. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of A3. 35 PW26 stated that on 30.07.05, he was posted as Vice

Chairman, DDA, Vikas Sadan, New Delhi. A request was received

from CBI alongwith FIR and statement of witnesses and other

documents to grant sanction under Section 19 of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 to prosecute A2 and A3. He further stated that

he had gone through the documents and applied his mind and after

examining the facts and circumstances of the case, he was of the

view that A2 and A3 should be prosecuted in the present case.

Being competent authority, he accorded sanction for their

prosecution under Section 19 of P. C. Act. He proved sanction

order bearing no. F-25(8)03/Vig.ACB dated 30.07.05 running into CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 69 of 179 70 four pages. Same is Ex PW26/A (colly four pages) for A3. He

further proved sanction order bearing no. F-25(8)03/Vig.ACB dated

30.07.05 running into four pages. Same is Ex PW26/B (colly four

pages) for A2. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of A1. During cross-examination on behalf of A2, this witness

stated that it was part of duty of JE (IL) to check unauthorized

construction. He denied the suggestion that he was not competent

authority to accord sanction Ex PW26/B or he had accorded

sanction without being authorized to do so. He further denied the

suggestion that he put the date on Ex PW26/B at the direction of

CBI at the later stage. During cross-examination on behalf of A3, this witness

stated that he could precisely state what documents were received

in the file at the time of presentation of file at the time of sanction.

He further stated that he perused the documents, statement of

witnesses relating to the case which were placed before him.

Upon specific question, he further stated that present case pertains

to sanction for prosecution against the accused under the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 70 of 179 71 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . He denied the suggestion that

without looking into complete documents, relevant documents,

application of mind in a mechanical manner, accorded the sanction

for prosecution of A2. It is specifically admitted by the witness that

the sanction for prosecution against the accused persons i.e. A2

and A3 under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 .

36 PW-27 stated that in the year 2003-2004, he was

posted as Deputy Director, Institutional Land, DDA. He has further

stated that Master Plan 2001 which defines the various categories

of lands and usage it can put into. The Master Plan is now Ex

PW27/1 (colly). He further stated that the word "Religious purpose" is

given in Chapter 4 (Development Code Schedule and Annexures)

at page no. 87 in the Master Plan 2001. It is further submitted that

according to Master Plan 2001, the words "Religious Premises" This Court further refers illustration to this Section as: Therefore, if the premises was being used for religious

purpose, then burden to prove such particular use was upon the

accused persons not upon CBI. The Court further refers Section

106 of Indian Evidence Act: CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 77 of 179 78 Here this Court further refers illustration (b) to this Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act. Therefore, if documents to establish the fact the

premises was being used for religious purpose or as Dharamshala

then definitely such documents like register to be maintained for

Dharamshala, register to be maintained for payment of wages to

employees of Dharamshala, registers/files of the employees of their

appointment of workers for Dharamshala, donation register

received from devotees, expenditure incurred being Dharamshala,

appointment letter for particular Pandit jit/ Pujari for Bhairo Mandir.

Witnesses to prove that they were attending rituals that took place

in mandir i.e. daily Aarti etc. and festival attended by the devotees

etc. is upon such person. Therefore, the joint reading of Section

103 and 106 of Indian Evidence Act and illustrations to said CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 78 of 179 79 sections referred herein puts a duty upon the accused persons

especially A1 to prove that premises was being used as

Dharamshala or Bhairo Mandir as such facts were within the

special knowledge of A1 who supposed to maintain such register.

Moreover, a Dharamshala is also to maintain register wherein

devotees entry and exit have been mentioned and if such registers

would have been supplied to CBI then definitely CBI could verify

about those people who stayed at plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, New

Delhi not as guest/customers but as pilgrims to the said place.

37 PW-28 stated that he was posted as SI CBI ACB, during

the year 2000 onward. He remained posted there till 2009. During

the said period, he was worked with H. K. Lal, the then Inspector

CBI, ACB. Witness identify signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at point A &

B on charge sheet Ex PW28/A. He also identified signatures of Sh.

S.C. Tiwari, the then SP CBI ACB Delhi at point X and seal at point

Y as he worked under him as he was his superior during service

and seen him signing during official course of duties. He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of P.S. Uttarwar. Said CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 79 of 179 80 statement is Ex. PW-28/B.

 He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of R.P. Gola. Said statement

is Ex. PW-28/C.

 He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of Tapan Mandal. Said

statement is Ex. PW-28/D.

 He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of Akhilesh Kumar Barnwal.

Said statement is Ex. PW-28/E.

 He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of Avdesh Kumar. Said

statement is Ex. PW-28/F.

 He has further identified signatures of Sh. H. K. Lal at

point A on statement U/s 161 Cr.P.C . of J. B. Sharma. Said

statement is Ex. PW-28/G.

 He further proved signatures of the then SP at point A at

two places on FIR is Ex. PW-28/H. He identify the signatures of the

then SP as he worked under him and seen him signing and writing

during the course of official duties. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 80 of 179 81 This witness was cross-examined on behalf of A1 and

stated that he had worked with Sh. H. K. LaL, the then Inspector

CBI, ACB for 3-4 years. During cross-examination, he was

confronted with letter dated Nil bearing signatures of H. K. Lal at

point X. Said document is Ex PW28/DX1. He further admitted that

the document which he identified bearing signatures of Late Sh. H.

K. Lal were not executed in his presence. The testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on

behalf of A2 & A3. Both adopted cross-examination of A1 for the

said witness. 38 PW 29 stated that he was looking after the arrangement

of booking of hotels for guests. He knew Mr. Syed Abdul Azeem

and also acquainted with his handwriting. PW29 acquainted with

the handwriting of Mr. Syed Abdul Azeem as he received the letter

pertaining to booking of the hotel and the same is written and

signed by Mr. Syed Abdul Azeem and whenever he used to write a

letter then PW29 got confirmation then he confirmed the same

through hand written letter/mail. He identified signatures of of Mr. Syed Abdul Azeem at CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 81 of 179 82 point B on seizure memo dated 14.06.04 which is Ex. PW-20/3; at

point X on letter on the letter head of BMS dated 11.10.2000.

Same is Ex. PW-29/1. He further proved following documents:- (b). DD no. 849872 dated 01.10.01 for Rs. 40,000/- in

 the name of BMS, which is already Ex. PW-15/5 and

 mentioned at Sr. NO. 2 in seizure memo Ex. PW-20/3. (c). Photocopy of pay in slip dated 04.09.01 for Rs.

 10,030/- including commission charge of Rs. 30/- the

 same is Ex. PW-15/5 and mentioned at Sr. No. 3 in

 seizure memo Ex. PW-29/2. Witness identified the

 impression of signatures of Sh. S.A. Azeem at point A. (d). Photocopy of DD no. 113897 dated 11.10.00 for

 Rs. 10,000/- in the name of BMS, which is already Ex.

 PW-19/3 and mentioned at Sr. No. 4 in seizure memo

 Ex. PW-20/3. (e). Counter foil of pay in slip of BMS dated 31.07.01 CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 82 of 179 83 for purchasing DD of Rs. 20,000/- in favour of BMS,

 which is already Ex. PW-19/5 and mentioned at Sr. No.

 5 in seizure memo Ex. PW-20/3. (f). Photocopy of DD no. 114116 dated 31.07.01 for

 Rs. 20,000/- in the name of BMS which is already Ex.

 PW-19/5 and mentioned at Sr. no. 6 in seizure memo

 Ex. PW-20/3. (g). Counter foil of pay in slip of BMS dated 06.11.01

 for purchasing DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS and

 the same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and same

 is Ex. PW-29/3 and mentioned at Sr. No. 7 in seizure

 memo Ex. PW-20/3. (h). Photocopy of DD no. 114209 dated 06.11.01 for

 Rs. 10,000/- in the name of BMS which is already Ex.

 PW-19/7 and mentioned at Sr. No. 8 in seizure memo

 Ex. PW-20/3. (i). Counter foil of pay in slip dated 07.09.01 for

 purchasing DD of Rs. 5,000/- in favour of BMS and the

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem which is Ex.

 PW-29/4 and mentioned at Sr. No. 9 in seizure memo CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 83 of 179 84 Ex. PW-20/3. (j). Counter foil of pay in slip dated 08.01.02 for

 purchasing DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS and

 witness stated that the same is in the handwriting of

 S.A. Azeem and is Ex. PW-29/5 and mentioned at Sr.

 No. 11 in seizure memo Ex. PW-20/3. (k). Photocopy of DD no. 114259 dated 08.01.02 for

 Rs. 10,000/- is in the name of BMS which is Ex. PW-

 19/9 and mentioned at Sr. No. 12 in seizure memo Ex.

 PW-20/3. (l). Counter foil of pay in slip dated 06.08.02 for

 purchasing DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS and the

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and is Ex.

 PW-29/6 and mentioned at Sr. No. 13 in seizure memo

 Ex. PW-20/3. (m). Counter foil of pay in slip dated 22.11.02 for

 purchasing DD of Rs. 3,500/- in favour of BMS and the

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and is Ex.

 PW-29/7 and mention at Sr. No. 11 in seizure memo Ex.

 PW-20/3. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 84 of 179 85 (n). Application form dated 11.10.2000 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS. The

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and bears his

 signatures at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/2. (o). Application form dated 06.11.2001 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS. The

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and his

 signatures are at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/6. (p). Application form dated 08.01.2002 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS. The

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and his

 signatures are at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/8. (q). Application form dated 06.09.2002 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS. The

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and his

 signatures are at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/10. (r). Application form dated 23.10.2002 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 10,000/- in favour of BMS. The

 same is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and his

 signatures are at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/12. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 85 of 179 86 (s). Application form dated 22.11.2002 for the

 purchase DD of Rs. 3500/- in favour of BMS. The same

 is in the handwriting of S.A. Azeem and his signatures

 are at point A. The same is Ex. PW-19/11. He further stated that production cum seizure memo

dated 14.06.2004 Ex. PW-20/4 bears signatures of S.A. Azeem at

point B on first and fourth page of Ex. PW-20/4. During cross-examination on behalf of A1, it is stated by

this witness that he was not a travel agent. He did not operate with

any name and style. He stated that he had received a telephone

call from Sh. Upadhyay from the Court and received a call from Sh.

S.A. Azeem on mobile phone No. 9350206060. He further stated

that there is another hotel Carat 87 at Naiwalan Karol Bagh, New

Delhi, address of which he did not know. He also did not know the

name of the owner of the hotel. He stated that Mr. Uttam is the

lease holder. 118 guests were booked by this witness in this hotel.

He stated that Ex PW29/DX1 was prepared by him for record. He

further stated that it did not contain the name of Mr. S.A. Azeem or

his address or his phone number. He stated the he is preparing

such kind of records for the last 3-4 years. He further stated the he CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 86 of 179 87 used to keep the record till the time of schedule of booking and

thereafter weeded out, the record pertaining to bookings already

over and keeping the one which are pending. He further stated that

Mr. S.A. Azeem must be a person of about 70 years of age. He admitted that if the record from the hotel Carat 87 at

Naiwalan Karol Bagh, New Delhi, is brought, his name would not be

available. He further admitted that the documents shown to him in

the court i.e. Ex. PW-20/3, Ex. PW-29/1, Ex. PW-20/5, Ex. PW-

29/2, Ex. PW-19/3, Ex. PW-19/5, Ex. PW-19/7, Ex. PW-29/3, Ex.

PW-29/4, Ex. PW-29/2, Ex. PW-19/6, Ex. PW-19/8 and other

documents related to the period when he did not know Sh. S.A.

Azeem. He stated that he knew four persons, who work in the

office of Sh. S.A. Azeem, namely Mr. Sameer, Mr. Ashfaq, Mr.

Shahzad and Ms. Anjum. However, he could not identify their

signatures and handwriting. He further stated that all letters were in

the handwriting of Sh. S.A. Azeem and none of those letters were

in the handwriting of these four persons. He further stated that he has not seen Mr. S.A. Azeem

in the state of illness but he got knowledge about his illness through CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 87 of 179 88 his son who used to visit Delhi. He stated that Mr. S.A. Azeem has

four sons and one daughter and two of his sons visit Delhi

frequently. He further stated that he did not have the visiting cards

of either of his son. He stated that first time, he had worked for Mr. S.A.

Azeem in the year 2012. He had never visited his house. He

stated that he received some letter below which name S.A. Azeem

was written therefore, he stated that it was written by Mr. S.A.

Azeem. Between 2012 to 2015, he had made 70-80 times booking

for Mr. S.A. Azeem. He further stated that for these 70-80

bookings, he received commission in cash. There was no cheque

for such commission issued by Mr. S.A. Azeem. He had sent the

amount of such commission on line. He denied the suggestion that

he was a planted witness of CBI and therefore, he had appeared

before this Court without any summons. There is no letter of

authority given by Mr. S.A. Azeem to appear and depose before this

Court either by mail or otherwise. He further disclosed e-mail i.d. of

Mr. S.A. Azeem is [email protected] . He further stated that in

Ex. PW-29/DX1, the handwritten portion is not related to Mr. S.A.

Azeem. It is his personal note being quotation for some other CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 88 of 179 89 client. He further stated that he engaged in the business of

Taxis and Tempo, other tourist vehicles alongwith hotel booking. He

is having two e-mail Ids and one E-mail I.D. is reflected on Ex.

PW-29/DX1. He further stated that he has no hotel but he provide

room to stay in hotels. He further stated that he never made any

booking in any hotel by issuing a letter to his client. He denied the

suggestion that he has falsely identified the documents or that he

has stated falsely about the authorship of writing and signature

there. Testimony of this witness remained unchallenged on behalf

of A2 and A3. This witness referred about one person namely Mr. S. A.

Azeem who made payments through demand drafts in favour of

BMS. The payments referred during the testimony of PW29 were

made to BMS. It only happens when the said premises were used

as hotel. Morever, the testimony of PW29 further refers that he was

not working for BMS but also for various other hotels like Apra Inn,

Hotel Carat 87. Nowhere it is challenged to the witness that

payments referred to by PW29 during his cross-examination were

not remitted to BMS. Moreover, it is also not challenged to this CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 89 of 179 90 witness that all such payments were made for the religious purpose

i.e. as donation and not as charges. This Court further observes

that PW29 operates as an agent for hotel booking in the area and

around where BMS is situated and this witness is aware about hotel

business being operated in the said area. Nothing has been

suggested to this witness that BMS is not a hotel but a temple

where entry is not allowed with shoes/chappal.

39 Statements of all the accused persons u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is

also perused. Accused no.1 in his statement has admitted that in the

year 1993-94, PW3 Sukhbir Phogat was posted as Jr. Engineer

(Civil) in Institutional Building section and was permitted to submit

inspection reports. He has further stated in his statement that three

floors were constructed including the basement, ground floor, first

floor and second floor. He has further admitted that the plot i.e. 1,

East Patel Nagar Institutional area, Prasad Nagar near Kalandi

College, Delhi was in his possession and was allotted for religious

purposes by the DDA. He further stated in the said statement that

the construction was carried out according to the sanctioned plan. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 90 of 179 91 He further stated that there is no BMS Hotel but simply a

Dharmshala. He further accepted the testimony of PW9 who deposed

that site plan of Bhairo Mandir Samiti (Regd.) situated at 1, East

Patel Nagar, New Delhi as Ex.PW9/6 and the same was annexed

with Ex.PW9/4 and the Licensing Authority Department had not

checked the genuineness of the site plan. He has further admitted

that he had never met with accused no.3 as he met him only in the

court in this case. He has further accepted the testimony of PW14

who deposed that the occupation certificate issued in favour of

Bhaironji Mandir Samiti, 1, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi is

Ex.PW14/1. This witness duly identified the signature of Sh. Parate,

Deputy Director (Building) and was finally approved by Joint

Director (Building). He has further accepted the testimony of PW16

who deposed that Ex.PW9/2A relates to the property known as

Dharmshala 1, East Patel Nagar, Shri Bhaironji Mandir Samiti,

Delhi and has been shown structural certificate dated 30.10.99

which was issued by him and was signed by him. He has further

stated that there is a full fledged temple on the ground floor and

there were four floors in total which were constructed up to 4th floor CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 91 of 179 92 at different stages finally in the year 1993. He denied about the

existence of Atithi Hotel at the site. He has also denied any

commercial use of the building and the building was strictly used as

Dharmshala. He has further stated that the Master Plan 2001 is not

applicable in this case as the allotment in the present case was of

the year 1984 and the society had applied in the prescribed form for

allotment of institutional land for the purpose of construction of

Dharmshala and temple. He has further admitted that the testimony

of PW27 who deposed that by note dated 11.09.2003 of Deputy

Director,Land Management sealing was done on 30.07.2003 Ex

PW 27/7. He further stated that the building was de-sealed on the

directions of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. 40 In defence, accused no.1 examined DW1 Inspector

Arjun Singh, in Charge,Malkhana CBI/ACB, New Delhi. He has

stated that he had brought complete vigilance file available in the

Malkhana of CBI. He has produced two file folders of DDA, one of

them bearing F-27(176)98/AVO 7 and other bearing no. F-

27(154)97/2/AVO 6. Both these files were collectively Ex.DW1/A

(colly). He further stated that the documents consisting of file no. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 92 of 179 93 F(8)25/84-IL, F(8)25/8/4Pt and F-17(2)/2004/LMC/93 recording

reflecting compliance of order dated 05.11.07 of this court. He

further stated that the original assessment file of House Tax

mentioned at 4(e) is not available in Malkhana, CBI, therefore, he

could not produce the same. He also brought the malkhana register

pertaining to the period 1998-2011. It contains the entry pertaining

to deposit of documents in case RC No. 39/A/2003. The photocopy

of the relevant page is Ex.DW1/B(colly 2 pages). As per register,

the entries are, case number M.R. Number, IO name, date of entry,

remarks and location. The column "M.R. number" reflects the

serial number of the seizure memo received in Malkhana. He also

proved the photocopy of these pages Ex.DW1/C (colly) and

Ex.DW1/D(colly). During the course of examination, this witness

stated that he joined as Malkhana incharge in 2014. He also

admitted that he has not made any of the entries in the Malkhana

register brought by him in the court. He also admitted that he did

not know whether document which are mentioned in the malkhana

registers Ex.DW1/B to Ex.DW1/D are/were retained by the

concerned IO or returned to the party concerned. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 93 of 179 94 41 DW2 stated that he was working as Assistant in

Personal Branch-I of DDA. He had brought the entire transfer file of

accused no.3. It contains the transfer order dated 05.04.1989

reflecting the transfer of A3 at serial no. 10. The said copy of the

transfer order is Ex.DW2/1. He further stated that as per file noting,

accused no. 3 was relieved vide order daed 30.05.1989 available in

the said file maintained in the office which is Ex.DW2/2 (OSR).

During cross-examination of this witness it is stated that no such

order passed overriding Ex DW2/1 is available in the personal file

of A3 maintained by the office. He denied the suggestion that there

was no joining report in the personal file, as accused no.3 did not

join Bhoomi Suraksha Sakha (Land Protection Branch) in

pursuance of Ex DW2/1. A1 further examined DW3 Sh. Sanjay Upadhyay,

Inspector ACB, CBI Delhi who has stated that Ex.PW3/A is the

note-sheet which is the original document. He further stated that

the rough sketch plan is Ex PW3/A2 is also an original document.

He did not have any original document pertaining to this case and

whatever documents are material worth lying with him, he has CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 94 of 179 95 already filed before this court. He did not know about the original

file bearing no. F8(25)/84-IL. He has further stated that in file

bearing no. F8(25)/84-IL/PT this file is regarding Bhairon Mandir

Samiti. He further stated that all documents relating to allotment of

plot of BMS, cancellation of lease deed, original notice sent to

accused no.1, newspaper cutting related to Bhairo Mandir Samiti

regarding allotment of land to Bhaironji Mandir Samiti, final show

cause notice and other documents relating to Bhairo Mandir Samiti,

Institutional Area, New Delhi. 42 First of all, I shall discuss law regarding conspiracy. Conspiracy

 "120B- Punishment of criminal
 conspiracy - (1) Whoever is a party to a
 criminal conspiracy to commit an offence
 punishable with death, or rigorous
 imprisonment for a term of two years or
 upwards, shall, where no express provision
 is made in this Code for the punishment of
 such a conspiracy, be punished in the same
 manner as if he had abetted such offence. (2) Whoever is a party to a criminal
 conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy
 to commit an offence punishable as
 aforesaid shall be punished with
 imprisonment of either description for a term CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 95 of 179 96 not exceeding six months, or with fine or
 with both." 43 The allegations in the charge sheet are for offences

under Section 420IPC , 120B IPC read with Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act . It is a well settled law that in a case of conspiracy,

the agreement between the conspirator cannot be proved directly

but it can be only inferred from the circumstances of each case. A

conspiracy need not be established by evidence of an actual

agreement between the conspirators. Overt acts raised a

presumption of an agreement and knowledge of the purpose, of the

conspiracy. The connection has to be established with the

conspiracy and not with the separate acts of different conspirators

which are the overt acts of the different individuals in proof of the

conspiracy. Overt acts may properly be looked at as evidence of

the existence of concerted intention in many cases, it is only by

means of overt acts that the existence of the conspiracy can be

made out. Further, a conspiracy is generally a matter of inference

deduced form certain criminal acts of the accused, done in

pursuance of an apparent criminal purpose in common between CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 96 of 179 97 them. In a case of conspiracy, when there is no direct evidence,

inference from proved circumstances must be to a large extent from

the basis of courts conclusion. Direct evidence of conspiracy is

almost an impossibility as it is in a rare case only that there is direct

evidence of the place where the conspiracy was entered into.

Conspiracies have to be inferred from the subsequent conducts of

the parties having regard to all the circumstances of the case.

44 In case of State v. Mohd. Afzal & Ors. 2003 VII AD

(Delhi) 1, the Hon'ble High Court, observed (in paras no. 212 to 214) as under:- Thus, the proof of offence of conspiracy
 would require in most cases some kind of physical
 manifestation of agreement. The physical
 manifestations may not be proved by overt acts but
 may be evidenced by conscience acts or conduct of
 parties and reasonably clear to mark their
 concurrence. Where evidence is clear, offence of
 conspiracy may be proved by necessary
 implications. Innocuous, innocent or inadvertent
 acts and events should not enter the judicial verdict.
 The court must be cautious not to infer agreement
 from a group of irrelevant facts carefully arranged
 so as to give an assurance of coherence. Since
 more often than not conspiracy would be proved on
 circumstantial evidence, four fundamental
 requirements as laid down as far back as in 1881 in
 the judgment reported 60 years later at the
 suggestion of Rt. Hon'ble Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru
 1941 Allahabad ALJR 416, Queen Empress v. Hoshhak may be re-emphasised:- Now I have to discuss the entire evidence available on

record in respect each accused separately. DHARAMVIR KHATTAR (A1)

45 The charge against A1 was ordered to be framed by my

Ld. Predecessor for offences under Section 420 IPC and Section CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 99 of 179 100 120B IPC read with Section 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act. First of all I have to discuss Section 420 IPC. Section 420 IPC reads as : 46 In the light of entire evidence which has already come

on record and discussion hereinabove, this Court comes to the

conclusion that A1 is guilty of offence under section 420 IPC. A1 applied and was alloted land i.e. plot no. 1, Patel

Nagar, New Delhi for the purpose of religious as per Ex PW9/4/1,

which is copy of perpetual lease. It is specifically mentioned in

clause 13 i.e. at point A that it is applied and allotted for one

purpose i.e. religious purpose. Proviso to this clause specifically

mentions that if lessee was desirous of using the said land or CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 100 of 179 101 building thereon for a purpose other than that of religious purpose

then it was the prerogative of lessor who may allow such change of

user on such terms and condition including payment of additional

premium and additional yearly rent as the Lessor may in his

absolute discretion determine. This land was allotted to Sh. Bhairo

Mandir Samiti for which A1 had claimed himself as President of the

said society. However, till date A1 has not disclosed about name of

any other officer bearer of the society or brought before this Court.

As per Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, it is upon A1 himself to

bring before this Court about details of other members of the

society as such names are within the special knowledge of A1. Moreover, Ex PW14/1 which is occupancy certificate

issued on 25.8.88 and Ex PW14/2 wherein report was prepared by

A2 for construction existing according to the sanctioned plan, as

mentioned therein. But the fact remains that it has come in

evidence that building has not constructed as per sanctioned plan

but it comprises basement, ground floor, first floor, second floor,

third floor and fourth floor. Nowhere any such plan, wherein it was

sanctioned to construct the building to such an extent, has been

brought on record. It is evident from the answer given by A1 CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 101 of 179 102 during his statement under Section 313 CrPC. As per evidence

come on record when it is put to A1 that as per site inspection

report Ex PW3/B there was unauthorised construction on plot no. 1,

East Patel Nagar, New Delhi, then he had simply given answer that

he did not know. Nowhere it was challenged by A1 that building

has been constructed unauthorizedly or there exists only authorized

construction at the site. During answers given in the same statement by A1, A1

also claimed that building is not a hotel but a Dharamshala. But the

fact remains that the statement of PW1 who organized the function

in the building for the purpose of ring ceremony and paid Rs.5000/-

or Rs.6000/- in the year 1993. It is nowhere challenged that the

said amount was paid as a donation and not as charges to arrange

for function. 47 It is further claimed by A1 in the said statement that

there was no BMS Hotel but simply a Dharamshala but the fact

remains that it is not explained by for simple "BMS" written on the

board of the building but it was not written completely i.e. Bhairo

Mandir Samiti which fact indicates that it was not only to cheat CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 102 of 179 103 people but also DDA and other government officials. Thus, A1

committed cheating 'in rem' towards the entire society. If A1 would

have specifically written at the building Bhairo Mandir Samiti then

definitely people would come to attend rituals at the temple but not

in a hotel. Therefore, this Court is of the considered view that A1

applied his mind only to use the building as hotel and to cheat

people as well as the Government functionaries in such a way that

he would avoid the liability for misusing the land which was allotted

as a lessee and to conceal this fact of misuse from the people also.

48 In the last, it is stated by A1 that when the society got

donation, its started some addition in the building after 2-3 years of

issuance of the completion certificate. The additional construction

was done at different stages as per availability of funds, finally the

building was completed in the year 1993 and was strictly used for

Dharamshala and temple purposes. He has further stated that

there was no commercial activity in the said building and same was

upheld in the civil matters against DDA wherein the civil Court held

that there is no misuser in plot no.1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi.

However, said judgment is not applicable to the facts of the present CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 103 of 179 104 case in as much as in the judgment relied upon by A1 dated

16.10.08 passed by Dr. Kamini Lau, ADJ, Delhi wherein it was

observed that DDA did not substantiate the allegations of users as

alleged by them in the show cause notice and the notice was not

specified. However, this Court is of the considered view that CBI

has brought all the evidence to substantiate the charges of misuser

by corrupt activities by A1 for the said premises/plot/building. This

court has already made detailed observations in para 13 of this

judgment. It is also come in the evidence that such offences

committed by A1 in connivance with A2 and A3 who are public

servants. In the statement made by A1 under Section 313 CrPC

nowhere it is claimed by A1 that he had broken mezzanine floor of

the building but the fact remains that A2 had given report Ex

PW14/2 wherein it is stated that there was existing mezzanine floor

but the fact remains that any person who is going to make additions

in the building would not got demolish the mezzanine floor in the

building. Nowhere it is challenged by A1 during cross-examination

of all the witnesses nor claimed in his statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC. Moreover, this Court further refers the

statement of PW2 who categorically stated that this is a five storey CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 104 of 179 105 building since the very beginning. He has further stated that it

might have taken two years in completion of this building. Now

again reference has been made to Ex PW9/4/1 which bears date

17.1.1986. Therefore, the perpetual lease was granted to A1 on

17.01.1986 and Ex PW14/2 was prepared by A2 on 22.8.1988.

Therefore,the testimony of PW2 corroborate by both these

documents i.e. Ex PW9/4/1, Ex PW14/2 who has stated that it took

about two years in completion of this building.

49 PW2 is an independent witness. In any manner it is not

possible for him to have knowledge about date of the allotment or

perpetual lease in favour of A1 but the moment perpetual lease was

granted, construction was started and it was completed in about 2

years as per the testimony of PW1 who has specifically stated that

building took two years in completion of construction. Morever, if

mezzanine floor was existing then definitely during cross-

examination it must have been challenged to any other witness by

A1 that there was existence of mezzanine floor. But that challenge

is nowhere to any of the witnesses. Therefore, this building was

constructed unauthorizedly beyond the sanctioned plan. Moreover, CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 105 of 179 106 none of the witnesses offered either on behalf of the prosecution or

on behalf of the defence brought before this Court who deposed

about stage of construction after 1988 of the building.

50 Regarding commercial use, this Court can very well

depend upon the testimony of PW29, who stated that drafts for

payment were remitted in favour of BMS wherein it is not

mentioned that it was a donation and further upon the testimonies

of PW6, PW8 and other witnesses, whose testimonies have already

been discussed herein above. During arguments, learned Sr. counsel for A1 had made

submissions that nowhere there is whisper by any of the witness to

prove offence under Section 420 IPC. However this Court does not

agree with the arguments raised by learned Sr. counsel for A1 in as

much as entire material and evidence available on record show that

A1 was using the premises for committing cheating not only with

general public but also with DDA. He induced the DDA to deliver

the plot measuring 600 square meter as per Ex PW9/4/1 for

religious purpose but he changed the usage of the premises it for

commercial purpose i.e. to make profit by running hotel. He CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 106 of 179 107 confidently written 'BMS' but nowhere written Bhairo Mandir Samiti.

He displayed Atithi but not as Atithi Dharamshala. Even no such

photograph or any witness has been brought by A1 either during

statement under Section 313 CrPC or defence evidence. During

defence evidence, learned counsel for A1 pressed upon list of

some documents filed by CBI but the fact remains that neither

register maintained for Dharamshala purpose nor any receipt book

nor any person on behalf of A1 nor any photograph has been

brought on record to prove that premises was used as

Dharamshala/religious purpose. This Court already made detailed

observations in foregoing pass of this judgment. He has further claimed that prosecution has not

examined IO of the case which is fatal to the case of the

prosecution. This Court does not agree with this contention as IO

has already been died and in such circumstances, this Court can

rely upon the evidences which have come before this Court.

51 It is further objected by learned defence counsel that no

one from investigating agency to prove the document annexed with

the charge-sheet. However, this Court is of the considered opinion CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 107 of 179 108 that what material brought before this Court during evidence, this

Court has to consider whether the prosecution is able to prove the

guilt of the accused. Prosecution has already prove the case in

accordance with the law which has already been discussed herein

above in this judgment. Learned defence counsel further raised the

objection that there is no witness of any demand or acceptance or

there is no allegation or there is no witness for collision. He has

further submitted that no witness has alleged about unauthorized

construction or misuse of the property in the year 1988. It is further

submitted that no witness has deposed regarding any misconduct

of any accused. It is further submitted that there is no recovery, no

statement or notice, even no photograph pertaining to alleged

unauthorized construction. Even no witness has deposed the

name of any of the accused. Therefore, he submits that

prosecution is not able to prove the case. Again this Court does not

agree with all such submissions. 52 In the light of testimony of PW2, the contention raised

by learned defence counsel that there is no witness of the year

1986, does not hold water as PW2 specifically stated that building CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 108 of 179 109 was five storey building from the very beginning and the

construction took about two years. Moreover, Court is of the

considered opinion that case of the CBI is not based upon any

bribe or demand but the conspiracy committed by A1 for misuse of

the building for commercial use and to make unathorized

construction thereof. Therefore, such arguments are not going to

help in view of the specific observations made by this Court in para 13. This Court further observed that even no person such Pandit ji/

Pujari has been disclosed during the entire statement of A1. In the

light of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, this fact was within the

knowledge of A1. In his statement under Section 313 CrPC, he

could disclose the name of Pujari/Pandit ji, who performs rituals in

the temple. At the cost of repetition, this Court again observes that

in every temple there is ambiance/atmosphere of temple, so every

person who enters therein, there is sound of bell in morning and

Aarti (daily rituals). There is distribution of prasad (holy sweet)

among devotees who are attending the temple. Even nowhere it is

claimed about salary to be paid to Pujari of the temple, care

taker/manager of the Dharamshala and other related workers

thereof. It is a matter of evidence that in the premises in every CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 109 of 179 110 room there was installation of AC, TV, fridge and all modern

amenities. The source of funds for payment of such facilities also

not been disclosed which must be in within the special knowledge

of A1. No such person has been named by A1 in his statement

recorded under Section 313 CrPC challenged during cross-

examination of the prosecution witnesses. Even no account book

has been brought which was being maintained by Bhairo Mandir

Samiti regarding any donation received and expenditure incurred.

Even no caretaker/Manager of Dharamshala produced before the

Court as defence evidence. A Dharamshala wherein about 35

rooms were in existence then definitely it requires various workers,

care taker/Manager who could depose either before CBI or before

this Court but none of them has been produced nor A1 has taken

name of any such person in his statement recorded under Section

313 CrPC. Moreover, there are many list of witnesses submitted by

A1 for defence evidence but in none of them, there is mention of

any such witness. Therefore, this Court has no hesitation that A1

has committed offence under Section 420 IPC. Moreover, the offence of unauthorized construction in

violation of approved plan has been committed and the said fact CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 110 of 179 111 was concealed from the DDA for the purpose of pecuniary

advantage in collusion with A2 and A3 and in agreement with A2

and A3 who as public servant abused their position for themselves

and for A1 committed offence under Section 120B read with

Section 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of Pct Act 1988. 53 Learned defence counsel has further relied upon

judgment Thermax Limited and Ors v. K. M. Johny and Ors. (2011) 13 SCC 412. The facts of this judgment are not applicable

to the facts of the present case as dishonest intention of A1 in this

case as it is very much apparent in the light of evidence discussed

hereinabove. Similarly judgment S. V. L. Murthy v State & Ors. (2009) 6 SCC 77 is applicable to the facts of present case as it is

regarding a bank matter wherein all the evidence was documentary

but herein evidence is regarding unauthorized construction which is

manifest in the light of discussion hereinabove. Learned counsel for A1 has further relied upon

judgment titled as Sujit Biswas v. State of Assam (2013) 12 SCC

406 but this judgment is not applicable to the facts of the present CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 111 of 179 112 case. In the said judgment , appellant was convicted for offenses

under Section 376 (2)(f) whereas present case pertains to Prevention of Corruption Act, 1999 . Learned counsel further relied upon Subramanian

Swamy v. A. Raja AIR 2012 SC 3336. However, this judgment is

not applicable to the facts of the present case where evidence is

yet to be recorded and criminal conspiracy was inferred that there

was discussion between officers and facts are not as such in the

present case. Similarly, facts of Thimmareddy and Ors. v. State of

Karnataka in SLP (CRL) No. 903/2014 are not applicable to the

present case as the question of TIP was involved and it was argued

that as per evidence none of the witnesses stated that they had

sent the accused persons in the said case. Learned counsel has further relied upon P.

Satyanarayana Murthy v. The Distt . Inspector of Police and

Anr. Crl. Appeal No. 31of 2009. However, said case is regarding

demand of direct illegal gratification but here the case of the CBI is

not as such for illegal gratification. Thus, fact of the cited case are

clearly different to the present case. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 112 of 179 113 Similarly facts of judgment titled as B. Jayaraj v. State

of A. P. (2014) 13 SCC 55 are not applicable to the facts of the

present case, as in that judgment there was case of demand of

illegal gratification, which is not as such in the present case. Similarly, facts of judgment titled as A. Subair v. State

of Kerala (2009) 6 SCC 587, in the said case question of non-

examination of the complainant was involved and the appellant was

trapped but this is not a trap case. Moreover, present case was

registered on the source information. Learned counsel for A1 has further relied upon State of

Kerala v. C. P. Rao (2011) 6 SCC 450. However, in the judgment

case of the prosecution was of illegal gratification but there is no

such direct demand of illegal gratification in this case. Similarly, facts of case titled as Srichand P. Hinduja v.

State MANU/DE/0758/2005 are not applicable to the present case

as in that case order on charge was challenged whereas in the

present case entire evidence has been concluded after framing of

charge. Learned counsel has further relied upon Govind v.

State of Madhya Pradesh MANU/MP/0374/2001. In view of the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 113 of 179 114 observation made in the judgment:- In view of the above, this judgment is not applicable to

the present case. Similarly, judgment titled as Ashok Dulichand v.

Madahavlal Dube and Anr. AIR 1975 SC 1748 are not applicable

to the present case as in that case Representation of People Act 1951 was involved and the question for secondary evidence was

involved. However, this Court has considered the material already

available on record and therefore, this judgment is not applicable to

the present case. Similarly facts of Sakuntala v. State MANU/DE/2428 /

2011 are not applicable to the present case as there was question

of circumstantial evidence whereas in the present there are

documentary and direct evidence on record. Learned counsel has further relief upon Arati Bhargava

v. Sh. Kavi Kumar Bhargava AIR 1999 Delhi 280. However, facts

of this case are not applicable to the present case as there was CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 114 of 179 115 delay in placing of record some documents and such fact is not

involved in the present case. Further learned counsel has relied upon R. V. E.

Venkatachala Gounder v. Arulmigu Viswesaraswami and V. P.

Temple and Anr. MANU/SC/7314/2007, Smt. J. Yashoda v. Smt.

K. Shobha Rani MANU/7314/2007, S. K. Rashid @ Abdul Rashid

and Anr. v. State of Bihar 1987 ( 35) BLJR 335 and Lahu

Kamlakar Patil and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra . However, facts

of above judgments are entirely different from the facts of present

case and are not applicable to the present case. 54 Now, this court has to consider the law laid down in A.

K. Ganju v. CBI Crl . M. C. 2384/2011 decided by Hon'ble High

Court on 22.11.2013 which has been heavily relied upon by the Ld.

defence counsels. The judgment has been gone through. a) In para 3 of the judgment, it is mentioned that as

per the chargesheet, the case of CBI is regarding issuance of

wrong completion certificate etc. where A.K. Ganju, who was an

approved Architect, submitted faulty completion drawings. The

building was booked for unauthorized construction by the then JE in CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 115 of 179 116 the said case and some servant quarters in the terrace floor were

demolished, show cause notices have been issued to the owners.

The role of A.K. Ganju was that he had submitted faulty completion

drawings, infringements of various provisions of law in the

construction of property and not shown by the Architect in the plan.

Completion plan prepared by A.K. Ganju did not tally with the

photographs submitted with the plan. It was agitated in the said

case that the entire case of the CBI was that there was

unauthorized construction and, therefore, it should be presumed

that there was collusion between the Architect, MCD Officers and

Engineers. It was also argued that there was no evidence to

support that there was any unauthorised and/or illegal construction

at the time when the completion certificate was granted, therefore,

ingredients of section 13(1) (d) of P.C. Act were missing in the case. b) It is further argued in para 31 of the judgment that

since MCD Act is a complete code in itself and bars any other

agency or court from taking cognizance of any violation of the MCD

Act. Therefore, CBI has no power to usurup the functions of the

Commissioner under the DMC Act and to investigate the matter of CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 116 of 179 117 unauthorized construction in violation of MCD Bye-laws. c) In para no. 40 of the said judgment , it is

mentioned that there was no evidence to show that there was any

illegal or unauthorized construction in 1991 when the completion

certificate was granted. d) In para - 98 of th judgment, the Hon'ble High

Court held that the building was booked for unauthorized

construction by the then JE and show cause notices were issued. e) In para - 99 of the judgment, it is mentioned that

the report was submitted by the MCD officers committee. Moreover,

it is held that the charges against the accused persons are in

pursuance of the violation of the MCD Act and therefore, the

Hon'ble High Court held that CBI or any Authority has no power to

investigate the matter of unauthorized construction in violation of

MCD Bye-laws, unless, it is notified by the Central Government.

However, the fact as discussed herein above pertaining to A.K.

Ganju case (Supra) are not applicable to the present case. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 117 of 179 118 f) The fact involved in the said case is regarding

submissions of wrong completion drawings which were issued by

an Architect. Moreover, the building was booked by JE in the said

case; show cause notices were issued; faulty completion drawings

were submitted; infringements of various provisions of law in the

construction of property not shown by the Architect in the plan;

completion plan was prepared and submitted which was got by

having the illegal coverage and unauthorized construction and

violation of MCD Act. But in this case there is no such fact

submitted by CBI. The case of the CBI in this case is to establish

illegal nexus between builders and JE, who involved in corrupt

practices which is covered under P.C. Act . h) In the referred judgment, JE booked the building

for unauthorized construction whereupon show cause notices were

issued. Thus, in the said case, JE had done his duty but in the

present case JE i.e. A2 and A3 never booked the building or had

ever issued any show cause notice or taken any demolition action

upon the property of A-1. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 118 of 179 119 i) In the judgment, there was no statement which

refers to active collusion, conspiracy between builder and MCD

Officers, therefore, MCD Persons were different persons. In the

present case according to CBI, evidence has been brought

regarding active collusion and conspiracy between JE and builders

and JE are public servants. j) In the present case, CBI has not relied upon any

report of any committee but in A.K Ganju 's case CBI had relied

upon the report submitted by the MCD Officers Committee.

Moreover, in the judgment, unauthorized and non-compoundable

construction existed in the buildings were demolished much prior to

the case registered by the CBI. There is no such case of CBI here,

regarding any demolition of unauthorized or non-compoundable

construction. k) In para - 116, of the judgment Hon'ble High Court
of Delhi held :- Therefore, Hon'ble High Court in the said case made

observations and has given findings in the facts of the said case

only. Similarly, in para no. 114, Hon'ble High Court observed the

facts by referring the facts of the said case and the chargesheet

filed in the said case. Therefore, the Hon'ble High Court has made

observations in A.K Ganju 's case in the light of set of the facts of

the said case only and those set of facts are different from the set

of the facts involved in the present case. 55 Hence, in view of above discussion, A1 is held guilty for

the offences under Section 420 IPC and Section 120B IPC read

with Section 13 (2) read with 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption

Act, 1988 . CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 120 of 179 121 M. K. SHARMA (A2)

56 PW4 has proved report dated 09.06.1998, Ex PW4/C.

This report prepared by PW4 is dated 28.05.1998 wherein PW

directed for report for the purpose of inspection. This report

referred to the JE, concerned who prepared report dated

09.06.1998 wherein it is specifically mentioned that basement was

found vacant and at the ground floor a small Mandir has been

constructed and Kirtan and Bhajan activities were found at the time

of inspection. A reception centre was also erected on this floor. On

another floor of the building there were well furnished AC rooms

found constructed and on the date of inspection, some pilgrims

from Gujarat were staying on the second floor and other rooms

were found locked. A board of Samiti was existed on front side of

the building and no board of hotel etc. existed at the site.

57 PW12 also stated that this site was being misused and

concerned AE/JE did not report the misuse. He was authorized for

taking action. The building plan was sanctioned and C & D forms

were issued without proper site inspection. He further referred Ex

PW12/1 which bears his signatures at point A wherein there is CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 121 of 179 122 reference of letter dated 29.10.1992 and subsequent reminders

dated 05.01.1994, 01.09.1994 and 20.01.1997 regarding

construction of hotel on temple plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi.

It is further reported that action taken report was called for but no

report was received. At the bottom of this letter there is direction

dated 01.04.1997. This was referred to Sh. M. K. Shrama (A2) who

by report dated 01.05.1997 inspected the site and reported that the

building was constructed upto three floor with basement and

mezzanine floor used for function etc. but at the time of inspection,

it was vacant. The mezzanine floor was used for small mandir

where kirtan and bhajan activities were going on and a reception

was erected on the ground floor and on the other floor of the

building there are number of rooms were constructed and all were

found locked. But the fact remains that it has already been

observed by this Court that in deposition of the all the witnesses it

has come that building was consisting of ground floor, first floor,

second floor, third floor and fourth floor but none of the witnesses

stated about mezzanine floor. This Court referred the testimony of

PW1 and PW2. Even A1 has in his statement under Section 313 CrPC neither stated about mezzanine floor nor stated about any CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 122 of 179 123 demolition activity carried out at the building.

58 This Court further refers testimony of PW26 who proved

sanction order in respect of A2 and Ex PW26/B and wherein it has

been mentioned as: 59 During cross-examination of PW26, there is no

challenge to this witness that A2 was not working at the relevant

period as mentioned in Ex PW26/B or the report Ex PW4/C and Ex

PW12/1 were not prepared by A2. Therefore it is proved that A2

was duty bound to report about unauthorized use over the building

or misuse thereof, but A2 did not report it. During cross-

examination of PW12, there is no challenge to the testimony of

PW12 to the effect that JE had reported the misuse to the higher

authorities for taking actions. It is not challenged on behalf of A2

that building at plot no. 1, East Patel Nagar, was not being misused.

Therefore, to that extent, the testimony of PW12 is accepted as the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 123 of 179 124 by accused. In his statement under Section 313 CrPC, it is claimed

by A2 that Ex PW12/1 is a photocopy and has not been proved as

per law. However, it is not disputed about Ex PW4/C which is itself

is handwritten document and bears signatures of A2. It is further

admitted the same was considered at the time of issuance of show

cause notice and it was relied upon by Vice-Chairman, DDA at the

time of determination/cancellation of lease deed. However, another

Ex PW4/C also there is no indication about existence of third floor

and fourth floor of the building. Therefore, this document i.e. Ex PW4/C itself is enough

to prove the guilt of A2. Moreover, the testimony of PW12 also

proved that it was the duty of JE to report about the misuse or

violation of the building plan. Existence of third and fourth floor in

the building has not been disputed by A1 in his statement under Section 313 CrPC. Even other witnesses and documents also

proved that there was existence of third and fourth floor but nothing

has been brought on record by A2 that he ever reported about the

existence of third and fourth floor at the building either in Ex

PW12/1, Ex PW4/C or even in any other document. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 124 of 179 125 60 A2 in his statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC

himself stated that in case of violation of lease terms the

recommendation for determination of lease is the part of duty of

institutional land branch, but the role of JE is limited to inspect and

report the misuse of building that too after receiving the complaint

from the surveyor. 61 Admittedly no such document has been brought by A2

on record. It is not claimed by A2 that Ex PW12/1 is forged or

fabricated document. During arguments, it is argued on behalf of A2 that

generally AE/JE act upon the report of surveyor. This arguments is

not going to help A2 as if at the time of preparation of report, if it

was required by JE, then definitely he could call report of surveyor

but nothing has been brought on record to prove that at the time of

preparation of report, surveyor was called or surveyor had falsely

reported the matter to JE. It is further argued that there is no evidence of collusion

between the builder or A2 and thus he is entitled for acquittal. He

has further relied upon A. K. Ganju 's case (supra) which has CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 125 of 179 126 already been discussed by this Court in para 54 of this judgment.

62 In view of the above discussion, this Court comes to the

conclusion that CBI is successfully proved that A2 has abused his

official position by not reporting unauthorized construction and

misuse of the premises and therefore, A2 is held guilty and

convicted for offences under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act as A2 by abusing his position as a public servant,

obtained for himself and for A1 pecuniary advantage and

substantive offence under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act . M. K. JOHRI (A3)

63 Now this court is going to discuss entire evidence

regarding the roll of A3 in the crime. This Court has already

discussed that testimony of PW2, Ex PW9/4/1 and Ex PW14/2. Ex

PW14/2 was signed and issued by A3 which fact has not been

denied by A3. It is not disputed by A3 that Ex PW14/2 was issued by

him wherein he has specifically mentioned about mezzanine floor CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 126 of 179 127 and construction thereupon. This Court has detailed observations

in para 48 for this judgment. Therefore, in the light of PW2 also this

Court comes to the conclusion that A3 had prepared false report

upon which Ex PW14/1 i.e. completion certificate was issued. Statement of A3 recorded under Section 313 CrPC

wherein question no. 2 put to him that it was a five storey building

from the very beginning for which he replied that building was in

existence on 16.08.1988 as per inspection report. Thereafter, he

transferred in 1989 to Land Protection Branch of DDA. Hence he

did not know about the building and construction thereafter. He has

admitted that he had carried inspection at plot bearing no. 1, East

Patel Nagar, Delhi. He has claimed that he is not responsible for

unauthorized construction if carried out after the date of inspection

of building. However, he has not stated what was reason for

deposition of PW2 about the fact that building is five storey since

the very beginning. PW2 is an independent witness and who

deposed only as per his observations made being in the

neighbourhood of the premises. Therefore, this Court relies upon

the testimony of PW2 when nothing as been suggested by any of

the accused against the testimony of PW2 in any manner not to be CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 127 of 179 128 relied upon due to any reason. Moreover, this Court has already

observed that nowhere any of the witness or even A1 or other

accused has mentioned anywhere that mezzanine floor was broken

to add more floor at any time. There is no challenge about the

mezzanine floor to any witness by any of the accused regarding

demolition thereof or any witness had ever seen the mezzanine

floor or demolition or removal thereof. Even no defence witness

has been brought in this regard. Therefore, there is no question to

remove mezzanine floor from the building. Thus report prepared

by A3 that the building was constructed as per Ex PW14/2 was

false on the very date of preparation of this document and

therefore, the said report was prepared only in collusion or in

agreement to commit criminal conspiracy by A3 for illegal act.

Thus A3 has committed offence under Section 120B read with Section 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of PC Act by abusing his position as a

public servant, obtained for himself and for A1 pecuniary

advantage. During arguments on behalf of A3, learned counsel for

A3 has submitted that PW2 as deposed was not living at the place

as mentioned. Rather he was living near the premises. However, CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 128 of 179 129 it is not disputed that PW2 is living in the neighbourhood of the

premises i.e. 1, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi. He has no interest

towards anyone as nothing challenged by any accused as such

during cross-examination of PW2. Arguments submitted by learned counsel for A3,

wherein it is contended that sanction for prosecution was not

obtained by CBI under Section 197 CrPC which is mandatory for

criminal proceedings against public/government official. He has

further submitted that the statement of PW2 is also not reliable in

as much as there is one side Santoshi Mata Mandir of the plot and

DDA guest house on the other side. He further argued that PW2

has mentioned his address in MIG Flats, DDA Prasad Nagar

whereas plot no. 1 is in East Patel Nagar. It is further stated that

house of PW2 is 200 meters away from the building in question and

therefore, his testimony cannot relied upon. He has further stated

that PW1 that in 1992-93 there was 2-3 storey building whereas

PW2 has falsely stated that the building was five storey since

beginning. The testimony of PW2 has material contradiction with

PW5 and PW23 and thus PW2 is not reliable witness. It is further

argued that there was no question put to A3 with respect to the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 129 of 179 130 conversion of mezzanine floor later on i.e. after 1993. It is

submitted the mezzanine floor was converted in the regular floor in

contravention of sanctioned plan. The objection of technical nature,

however in all circumstance, A3 is not responsible for any such

conversion. The arguments raised by learned counsel for A3 are not

going to help A3. First of all, PW26 has specifically stated that

sanction for prosecution has already been obtained under Section

19 of PC Act, 1988. Section 19 (1) of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 states as: In cross-examination on behalf of A3, PW26 specifically

stated that in the present case sanction for prosecution against A3

was accorded under Prevention of Corruption of Act, 1988 . The

charge also framed against A3 for offence under Prevention of

Corruption Act and for conspiracy. Therefore, there is no

irregularity in the sanction for prosecution. Moreover, this Court is

also to see whether there is failure of justice if there is any error,

omission or irregularity in sanction. Neither any error, omission or

irregularity in sanction has been brought during the cross-

examination of PW26 and also has not been established by the

defence counsel that such error, omission or irregularity, if has,

resulted is failure of justice to A3. Moreover, no such objection has

been raised during cross-examination of PW26 by A3. Therefore,

such objection is not going to help A3. In support of this argument, learned counsel for A3

relied upon Professor N. K. Ganguly v. CBI, New Delhi Crl .

Appeal No. 798/2015 decided by the Hon'ble High Court on

19.11.2015 and submits that since there is no sanction under Section 197 CrPC, therefore, appellant is entitled for acquittal in CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 131 of 179 132 view of this law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. In my

considered opinion, this judgment is not going to help A3. In para

9 of the referred judgment, it is specifically observed in the said

case that charge-sheet was filed before the Special Judge, Anti

Corruption, CBI against all the appellants except an accused under Section 120B IPC read with Section 13 (1) (d) and 13 (2) of the PC

Act and requested sanction for prosecution as for one accused

sanction was declined by the competent authority. However, it is

not stated that sanction for other accused was applied and only for

one accused sanctioned was declined. Upon the material available

on record in the referred judgment, facts indicate that Special

Judge still taken cognizance. In para 23, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that since the

offence was committed by the accused in discharge of his official

duties and it was not open to the Special Judge, to take cognizance

of the offence since without obtaining previous sanction of the

Central Government by respondent. But in the present case

sanction under Section 19 of PC Act has already been taken as

observed by this Court herein. PW26 specifically stated as such

and his testimony almost remained unimpeached. Moreover, facts CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 132 of 179 133 of the case in Prof. N. K. Ganguly (Supra) indicates in para 9 that

competent authority of Noida declined to grant sanction under Section 19 of PC Act for prosecuting few accused. Therefore, the

facts of the case relied upon in the present case are not applicable

as sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 has already been

granted in this case. Therefore, law laid down in Prof. N. K.

Ganguly 's case is not applicable to the present case.

64 Regarding testimony of PW2, this court is of the

considered opinion as it is himself admitted by A3 in his arguments

that PW2 is resident of MIG Flats, Prasad Nagar stated to be very

close and therefore, if a witness is living in nearby area and also

stated that he has a flat 200 meters away from the premises,

therefore, there is no failure of justice in the testimony of PW2 in as

much as it is stated that PW2 is living 200 meters away from the

premises, then if a person is living at a distance of 200 meter and if

any construction is going on, in all circumstances, it comes into the

knowledge of such person. Moreover, such questions were not

challenged during the cross-examination of PW2 otherwise PW2

would explain about all such facts. In my considered opinion, even CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 133 of 179 134 otherwise the testimony of PW2 remained un-impeached before

this Court. Moreover, it is further argued that PW1 stated that in the

year 1992-93, it was three storey building but by stating this fact it

cannot be said that the testimony of PW2 is false in as much when

the person passing through a building then it is not necessary that

the said person would have counted the floor of the building.

Further even a person passes or enters in a building then also that

person remained on the ground floors as evident from the

testimony of PW1. It is usual practice until and unless the said

person has any occasion to climb the floor or top of the building,

persons have habit to not to count the floor of the building but only

have rough idea about the floors of the building. Moreover, no

question put by A3 during cross-examination of PW1 and PW2

whether he had seen any mezzanine floor of the building when

they entered into therein. It is further argued that mezzanine floor

was converted into regular. However, A1, A2 & A3 has not stated in

there respective statements recorded under Section 313 CrPC that

any mezzanine floor was ever converted into regular floor in the

building. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 134 of 179 135 65 It is not the case of A3 that after year 1988, he ever

entered into building then A3 was not in a position to state that at

any time, the mezzanine floor was converted into the regular floor.

A1 or any other accused has not stated that at any time that

mezzanine was converted into regular floor. Therefore, such

arguments are not going to help A3. 66 Learned counsel for the A3 also relied upon Raghubir

Singh & Chatter Singh v. Uinion Territory of Chandigarh AIR

1993 SC 1943. This judgment is also not applicable to the facts of

the present case in as much as the facts of the present case that

there was no conversion of mezzanine floor into regular floor.

Nothing has been alleged by anyone before this Court that there

was conversion of mezzanine floor into regular floor. It is case of

the CBI that there was no such mezzanine floor existing in the

building and for this reason, this judgment is not applicable to the

facts of the present case. A3 further relied upon Sunil Kumar v. State of

Haryana decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 04.12.2009 CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 135 of 179 136 which is on the point of approximation date and in view of decision

therein, the testimony of PW2 cannot be relied upon. However, this

judgment is of no help of A3 as in the case cited by learned counsel

A3, the date of birth of the accused was involved. This Court is not

going into minute accuracy of the building constructed at plot no. 1,

East Patel Nagar. The Court has to see whether building was

constructed at the time and description as per testimony of PW2.

For this reason minute accuracy is not required and thus this

judgment is not applicable to the present. 67 In view of the discussion, this Court comes to the

conclusion that CBI has successfully proved that A3 has abused

his official position by not reporting unauthorized construction and

misuse of the premises and therefore, A3 abused his position as a

public servant, obtained for himself and for A1 pecuniary

advantage, is held guilty and convicted for offence under Section

120 B read with Section 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of PC Act and

substantive offence under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act . CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 136 of 179 137 68 Hence, all the accused persons are held guilty and

convicted accordingly. Dictated & announced (JITENDRA KUMAR MISHRA)
in the open Court on SPECIAL JUDGE (P.C. ACT) CBI,
10.12.2015. (EAST), KKD COURTS: DELHI. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 137 of 179 138 IN THE COURT OF JITENDRA KUMAR MISHRA
 SPECIAL JUDGE (PC ACT) CBI,
 KARKARDOOMA COURTS : EAST DISTRICT
 DELHI

Unique ID no. 02402R0717132005
AC No. 14/11/05
RC No. 39(A)/03

IN THE MATTER OF :- (President Bhairon Mandir Samiti,
 Plot No. 1, Prasad Nagar, Institutional Area,
 New Delhi. ...... (C - 1) 2) Sh. M.K. Sharma (JE, DDA)
 S/o Late Sh. Saidev Sharma
 R/o H. No. 4, Maheshwari Apartment,
 Sec. - 1, Rohini Delhi - 84. above-mentioned convicts have been held guilty for commission of

offences mentioned herein under :- (c) Sh. K.M Johri (C-3) has been held guilty for

 commission of offences punishable U/s 120 B IPC r/w Section

 13 (2) & 13(1) (d) of PC Act and further held guilty for

 commission of substantive offence punishable u/s 13 (2) read

 with section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act. 2 On 14.12.2015, arguments on sentence on behalf of all

the convicts and CBI have been heard for about 2-1/2 hours. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 139 of 179 140 3 In this case, it is A-1 in whose favour lease for the plot

bearing No. 1, East Patel Nagar, Delhi was allotted by DDA for the

use of religious purposes. A-1 also informed everyone that he is

using the premises for religious as well as Dharamshala purposes

but the fact remains that as per the evidence came on record, he

has flouted the sanctioned building plan and used the premises for

other illegal or illegitimate purposes i.e. to run hotel business

activities. It is writ large from the evidence which has come on

record, C-1 has applied his sharp mind how to make hole to break

the law as instead of writing 'Bhairon Mandir Samiti', he wrote

'BMS' so that he could represent to the people that it is the short

form of 'Bhairon Mandir Samiti' i.e. 'BMS'. In fact, he was using the

premises for carrying out the hotel business by providing facilities

such as well furnished Rooms with AC, TV and other amenities.

4 It has also come in evidence before the court that C-1

provided all sorts of luxuries be it legitimate or illegitimate such as

wine and women to his customers/visitors. In fact, he misused the

State policy. The policy of the Welfare State is to flourish religious CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 140 of 179 141 harmony amongst its subjects. But in the name of running such

religious institution/Dharamshala, C-1 has not only blatantly flouted

every rules and regulations and bylaws of Government Authority i.e.

DDA but also has played with religious and pious stentiments of

people of the State/country. To achieve his nefarious designs/goals

to earn more and more money, C-1 did not fear for a single second

and tired to mis-led the prime investigating agency of the country

i.e. the CBI by giving false evidence to show that this

premises/building was being used for the religious purposes and

for running Dharamshala but the fact remains that except a very

small temple at the ground floor, there was nothing of that sort. C-1

neither could produce any donation receipt book or accounts

thereof to show that the building/premises was being maintained as

Dharamshala or is being run for any religious purposes. It is very

unfortunate that in this country people exploitation the religious faith

of the people not for the purpose of getting the mental piece but to

earn illegal profits by exploiting the sentiments of the State as well

as its subject. In this case, C-1 flouted all the rules/regulations and

bylaws of the State very conveniently, very daringly and without any

hesitation started misusing the building for the purpose of earning CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 141 of 179 142 illegal profits wherein it has also come on record that he entertained

Senior bureaucrats, politician and members of judiciary. It has also

come on record that C-1, since very beginning was having intention

of mis-using the premises to deceive the State and he falsely and

mischievously got allotted the plot in the name of Bhairon Mandir

Society for the religious purposes and for the purpose of running a

Dharamshala and also got the building built up more than twice of

the sanctioned building plan. 5 Admittedly, the State sees, acts and functions through

its employees. C-3, who is the employee of the DDA had given a

false report for the purpose of completion certificate to facilitate the

C-1. He reported about the construction which in fact was not

existing. Similarly, C-2 also conducted inspection in the same

manner and has not reported the abuse and mis-use of the

premises in question. He also reported about the existence which

in fact did not exist. In fact, he did not report about the existence of

3rd and 4th Floor of the building. Therefore, C-2 and C-3 both

being public servants did not discharge their duties honestly and

diligently and both kept their eyes closed in order to facilitate or to CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 142 of 179 143 allow C-1 to misuse the premises in question and allowed him to

carry out illegal construction perverse to the sanctioned building

plan which was built upon the leased land of DDA.

6 It is submitted by learned Sr. PP for CBI that C-2 and

C-3 have committed such offences in connivance with C-1, while

they were holding responsible posts in such a reputed Government

Organisation like DDA which ultimately affected the social objects

of the people of the city of Delhi which affects the society at large. Learned Sr. PP for CBI further submits that accused

persons are not small people. They are educated persons having

deep roots in the society and in way or the other, are the role model

of the people and the society which they represent. It is further

submitted by Sh. U.C Saxena, learned Sr. PP for CBI that the

offences for which the convicts have been convicted not only

affects the society, but also to the whole nation at large. Ld. Sr. PP for CBI further submits that C-1 is not a small

person, he is highly dangerous man towards the society. He further

submits that CBI has put all tooth and nail to bring this culprit in the

books as people were not daring to come forward to depose CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 143 of 179 144 against him. It is further submitted that even DDA officials also

hesitated to depose against him. Ld. Sr. PP for CBI further submits

that C-2 and C-3 are not illiterate but both are engineers working in

prime office of Government of India, i.e. DDA where, they were

given responsibility to secure the interest of the Government

agency and to secure that the laws and bylaws of the State should

be followed. Ld. Sr. PP further submits that all the convicts are

leading luxurious life and having their weight in their respective

communities. It is further submitted that if such people are allowed

to go scot-free by providing lesser punishment then definitely it will

convey wrong message to the society to the effect that nothing

would happen if one does corruption in whatsoever manner. Thus,

Ld. Sr. PP for CBI further prays that all the convicts should be

given maximum punishment as provided under statute alongwith

highest amount of fine. Learned PP Sr. for CBI further argues that C-2 and C-3

have got education from the institutions where the State provided

subsidy in the education. He further submits that instead of serving

their nation, they involved in such illegal activities and white collar CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 144 of 179 145 crimes which caused harm to the society. Thus, they also wasted

the money provided by the State in their education and caused loss

of the valuable money received from the tax-payers. He further

submits that both the convicts were selected in DDA, the premiere

institution because of their qualification at the relevant time.

Government spent expenditure for recruiting and selection with

expectation that they would serve the people of the nation towards

progress of the country. Instead of taking care of progress of the

country, C-2 and C-3 misused their education and worked to harm

the society at large that too being public servants. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI further submits that one should

not allow to make rich himself at the cost of the tax payers of the

nation. It is further argued that if C-1 wanted to use the premises

then the condition for which the premises was allotted then

definitely, he would apply to the lessor i.e. DDA which as per rules

may be permitted him after recovering share of the profits to be

earned by C-1 but C-1 instead of going in accordance with the

covenants of the perpetual lease of deed, concealed this fact from

the DDA and thus, made himself rich at the cost of DDA i.e. the

State. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 145 of 179 146 He further submits that all the convicts are not entitled

for any sympathy on any ground as mentioned by Hon'ble Supreme

Court in various cases, as crime has been committed by the

convicts towards the society. Learned Sr. PP claims maximum

punishment for all the offences committed by all the three convicts

which should run consecutively and not concurrently. He relied

upon Section 31 Cr.P.C. and submits that punishment should be

consecutive so that convicts should get maximum punishment. He

further submits that convicts should be made liable to pay fine upto

crores of rupees. Learned Sr. PP further claim cost of entire prosecution

as per Section 357 (a) of CrPC for the amount of Rs.30 lac since

the CBI has investigated the matter thoroughly and called

witnesses from different parts of the country. He further submits

that CBI has taken services for the purpose of investigation of best

professionals and also hired best prosecutors to bring the guilt at

home of the accused persons. He further submits that keeping in

view all the facts of rising cost of transportation, communication and

various other applicable methods for the purpose of investigation

and to bring the witnesses before the Court from different parts of CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 146 of 179 147 the country, Rs.30 lacs would not be actual cost incurred in

prosecution but definitely it will compensate to some extent the

expenses incurred in the prosecution of this case.

7 Sh. S.K. Rungta, Learned Sr. Counsel for C-1 submits

that C-1, Dharamvir Khattar is aged about 75 years and has under 8 Sh. Amit Sharma, Ld. Counsel for C-2 namely Sh. M.K.

Sharma has argued that there was no mensrea in the present case

to commit any crime by the convicts. It is further submitted that C-2

is aged about 62 years and has ailing wife who is suffering from

backbone and knee pain. It has been further submitted that C-2

has one unmarried daughter of 28 years old and the quantum of

sentence would adversely affect the prospects of marriage of his

daughter. It has been further argued that C-2 during the trial of the

case has always been regular and no exemption has been sought

on his behalf at any point of time and thus, has not caused any

delay in the trial of the case. It is further submitted that C-2,

alongwith his family is residing in a rented accommodation in Delhi

and does not have his own house and further requested that

keeping in view the background of the case, his limited role in the

crime and circumstances mentioned herein above, a lenient view

may be taken against him while awarding sentence to him.

9 Sh. Atul Kumar, Learned Counsel for C-3 submits C-3 CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 148 of 179 149 Sh. K.M. Johri is 57 years of age and is a patient of Diabetes and

his wife is also heart disease. He has one unemployed son aged

about 27 years suffering from depression and schizophrenia. It is

further submitted that his wife is earning income by tuitions. It has

been further argued that no departmental inquiry was initiated

against him by his Department. Ld. Counsel for C-3 further submits

that C-3 did not receive any pecuniary advantage/bribe from any

person in any manner whatsoever and has under gone the

tremendous agony and mental trauma during the trial. Keeping in

view the limited role of C-3 in the crime and circumstances

mentioned herein above, a lenient view may be taken against him

while awarding sentence to him so that ends of justice may meet.

10 Learned counsels for convicts jointly submit that the

purpose of criminal judicial administration system is towards

reformation and not towards retribution. They further submit that

keeping in view all such facts mentioned herein, lenient view may

be taken in favour of all the convicts and may be sentenced

accordingly. Learned counsel for the convicts further argued that CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 149 of 179 150 none of them is a hardened criminal. If they would be given severe

punishment then definitely it would affect their health as well as

cause adverse consequences upon them as well as upon their

family persons. 11 All the Ld. Defence Counsels further jointly submit that

claim of the CBI that punishment should be consecutive is again

going to be harsh towards the convicts. They further submit that

there is no example or precedent could be cited by learned PP

regarding consecutive sentences. Rather sentence always be run

concurrently as practice. It is submitted that illness of the convicts

and their dependents of their family members should be taken into

consideration. 12 Learned Sr. PP countered the arguments and submits

that it was upon the convicts when they had committed crime and if

they did not think for consequences at the time of commission of

crime then definitely they cannot claim leniency from this Court

now. He further submits that in catena of judgments Hon'ble Apex

Court and other Courts held that corruption is like a cancer to the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 150 of 179 151 society, it should be uprooted so that society should behave in

accordance with the law. Learned Sr. PP has relied upon State of

Rajasthan v. Dhool Singh AIR 2004 SC 1264, wherein the Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed as under:- CBI has further relied upon judgment Sevaka Perumal,

etc. v. State of Tamil Nadu AIR 1991 SC 1463, wherein Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed as under:- If he courts did not protect the injured, the
 injured would then resort to private
 vengeance. It is, therefore, the duty of
 every court to award proper sentence
 having regard to the nature of the offence
 and the manner in which it was executed or
 committed etc. 10. It is clear from the evidence that the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 151 of 179 152 accused indulged in illegal business of
 purchase and sale of ganja. They
 conspired to entice innocent boys from
 affluent families took them to far flung
 places where the dead body could not be
 identified. The letters were written to the
 parents purporting to be by the deceased to
 delude the parents that the missing boy
 would one day come home alive and that
 they would not give any report to the police
 and the crime would go undetected. For
 murder in a span of five years were
 committed for gain in cold blooded,
 premeditated and planned way. It is
 undoubted that if the trial relating to
 Athiappan murder had taken place and
 concluded earlier to the trial and conviction
 of other three murders are not relevant facts
 to be considered. But in this case the trial
 of the murder relating to Athiappan and
 Hariamachandran practically took place
 simultaneously by which date the appellants
 were convicted for the murder of Chellaurai
 and Christodas. Therefore, the reference of
 conviction and sentence by the Sessions
 Court to those two cases also are relevant
 facts. The deceased Harimachandran is no
 other than the nephew (elder sister's son) of
 A-1. This would establish his depravity and
 hardened criminality. No regard for
 precious lives of innocent young boys was
 shown. They adopted the crime of murder
 for gain as a means of living." He further submits that as per judicial verdict

pronounced earlier in various cases that when the statutes provides CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 152 of 179 153 maximum sentence, it is only for the talk purpose but it should be

implemented. He further submits that if the Court is not going to

pass maximum sentence, then there must be some strong reasons

for not doing so by the Court. He further submits that if statute

provides maximum sentence then definitely maximum sentence

should be awarded as there is no reason for non-awarding of

maximum sentence. He strongly objects about leniency towards

any of the convicts. 13 Learned defence counsel for all the convicts submits

that learned Sr. PP for CBI misconstrued the law, in as much as if

the Court is going by the arguments of learned Sr. PP then

definitely in every case maximum punishment i.e. capital

punishment to be awarded as a rule but intention of the legislature

is not as such. It is discretion lies with the Court depending upon

the circumstances and facts of each and every case.

14 This Court considers rival contentions of both the

parties. This Court after hearing arguments of both the parties this

court is of the considered opinion that it is not disputed that being CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 153 of 179 154 public servants C-2 and C-3, who involved in the corrupt practices

in connivance with C-1 committed criminal conspiracy. Ld. Counsel

for the convicts and also refers other judgments passed by superior

Courts such as:- In the case titled Raj Kumar Vs. State of Delhi ,

Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, 2015 IV AD (Delhi) 280 has held

that :- In the case titled State of Madhya Pradesh Vs.
Shambhu Dayal Nagar Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, 2007
(2) ACR 1428 (SC) has held that :- "15. The corruption by public servants has
 become a gigantic problem. It has spread
 everywhere. No facet of public activity has
 been left unaffected by the stink of
 corruption. It has deep and pervasive
 impact on the functioning of the entire
 country. Large scale corruption retards the
 national building activities and everyone has
 to suffer on that count. As has been aptly
 observed in Swatantar Singh Vs. State of
 Haryana reported in MANU/SC/0510/1997,
 lymph nodes, the vital veins of the body
 politics social fabric of efficiency in public
 service would improve only when the public
 servant devotes his sincere attention and
 does the duty diligently, truthfully, honestly
 and devotes himself assiduously to the
 performance of the duties of his post. The
 reputation of corrupt would gather thick and
 untraceably clouds around the conduct of
 the officer and gain notoriety much faster
 than the smoke. And also in para no. 19 held that :- In the case titled Soman Vs. State of Kerala , Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India, (2013) 1 SCC 382 has held that :- In the case titled Manish Jalan Vs. State of
Karnataka , AIR 2008 SC 3074, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India,
AIR 2011 SC 3845 has held that :- this court has observed thus: The facts of the present case as
 unfurled by the overwhelming evidence led
 by the prosecution at trial reveal a shocking
 and spine-chilling state if affairs prevalent in
 our country. An ingenious employment
 scam spanning across eighteen (18)
 districts of State of Haryana was given
 effect to by persons at the helm of power
 and the entire bureaucratic machinery fell
 prey to its satanic influence. Laudably, few CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 162 of 179 163 individuals who were examined at the trial
 were forthright in the hour of adversity and
 did not succumb to the pressures exerted
 upon them from all quarters. Some
 individuals, such as PW-14, Dhup Singh,
 were not even high ranking officers of th
 Civil Services, but mustered courage to
 successfully repel the pressure exerted
 upon them. It is submitted that the authors of the
 present crime were essentially public
 servants; who were duty bound to preserve
 and uphold the dignity of law. Some had
 even been administered 'oath' in terms of
 the Constitution of India. Yet they chose to
 flagrantly violate the law, betraying the trust
 reposed in them by the citizens and the
 Constitution. The very nature of the present
 crime, its magnitude, ramifications,
 designed manner of execution and the
 deleterious impact on the society at large,
 warrants a strict view, lest, justice be
 rendered sterile. Very recently the Supreme Court in its
 decision pronounced on 06.05.2014 in the
 case of Dr. Subramanian Swamy Vs.
 Director, Central Bureau of Investigation
 and Another , (2014) 8 SCC 682 while
 holding section 6A of the Delhi Special
 Police Establishment Act, 1946 to be
 ultravires took serious note of malaise of
 corruption in our country and pertinently
 observed : 81 In balakrishna Dattatrya Kumbhar,
 this Court observed that corruption was not
 only a punishable offence but also,
 "undermines human rights, indirectly
 violating them, and systematic corruption, is
 a human rights' violation in itself, as it leads
 to systematic economic crimes". 82 In R.A. Mehta, the two-Judge Bench
 of this Court made the following CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 164 of 179 165 observations about corruption in the society: 83 ..... It was observed : In the case titled Shanti Lal Meena Vs. State of NCT
of Delhi (CBI ), Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in its decision
reported as 222 (2015) Delhi Law Times 654 (SC), has held that :- Therefore, here again this court draws the inference that convicts

are not good citizens by not putting criminal law into motion but

instead they themselves involved in the crime. If corruption is being

done by some one then other citizen has duty to report the crime to

law enforcing agency. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 168 of 179 169 18 Arguments have been taken place regarding family

members, dependents and condition of family members of C-2 and

C-3. I do not agree with all such arguments also. It was the duty of

all the family members of C-2 and C-3 that whenever the convicts

were going to do crime like corruption and got themselves rich,

then the duty of their family members was to stop the convicts to

refrain themselves from doing such a crime. The family members

of C-2 and C-3 instead of stopping them kept silent and thus, by

keeping mum, in way or the other just abated the crime and instead

of refraining him to do such an illegal act of corruption. Therefore,

the court cannot have mercy upon family members of such

convicts. 19 Moreover, this Court does not agree with the said

contention in as much as in the present case, convicts have also

been convicted under Prevention of Corruption Act . The legislator

has stated the statement of objects and reasons for this Act as

such :- 20 Thus, the legislature in clear words expressed its

intention that for giving coverage of offences of corruption by

widening their coverage with more effective registration has been

indicated and therefore, the court has to consider this case

according to the intentions of the legislature. The legislature is of

the view that corruption should be stopped and curbed at the very

foundation. 21 This court is of the considered opinion that all the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 170 of 179 171 convicts have multiplied their profits of money/wealth ill gotten by

them by indulging in the corrupt practices as they might have

invested the said ill-gotten wealth in other investments which may

not have come in the notice of the court. Moreover, in this case all

the convicts had joined hands to commit corruption to earn the ill

gotten wealth and their act of corruption further generates black

money which is the prime concern now a days as legislature is

putting all the efforts to curb the menace of black money.

22 This Court agrees with the contention raised by

the Ld. Sr. PP for CBI that in this country most of the people have

made the way of corruption as their way of living style as it appears

to them the easiest route to get early success and easy wealth.

The corruption has spread to such an extent in the society that it

becomes disease among professionals, medical professionals,

educational professionals or even the custodian of the nation i.e.

politician of this country. No corruption can take place until and

unless the public opinion may give it sanctity. Sanctity only comes

when it becomes the life style of the people of the country. Great

Scholars of the country Chanakya and Vidur have mentioned in old CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 171 of 179 172 testaments that if servant of the king becomes corrupt then integrity

of the State would be at threat. Here servants of the King would be

C-2 and C-3 as they were getting salary from the State. Now, in the

democratic system by every citizen of the country is like King of the

State because all such citizens of the country elect their

representative and those representatives conduct affairs of the

State through public servants. It is the duty of the public servants

that they should remain faithful to the State, otherwise integrity of

the State would be at jeopardy. C-2 and C-3 are employees of the

State but not only the employees of the State but rather high

officials of the State upon whom people of the State had faith. But

instead to prove their faith, they committed the crime by joining the

hands. Therefore, I do not find that any leniency can be granted as

prayed by their respective counsels. But the court has to balance

with the contentions of the convicts as already observed that all

such persons either not getting pension or received retirement

benefits. 23 This Court further observes that in this case, the

convicts not only committed economic offence but also committed CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 172 of 179 173 social and religious offence. They exploited the religious

sentiments of the institution i.e. DDA when the premises was

allotted for the religious purposes but C-1 mis-used the premises

for his commercial benefits and earned huge profits thereupon.

Thus, he stepped on the faith of the people of this country and C-2

& C-3 facilitated him to use the premises which was allotted to him

for religious purpose or for running a Dharamshala for gaining

illegitimate wealth by carrying out the hotel business and thus,

made themselves rich at the cost of the people of this country for

which they were not entitled. 24 This court agrees with the contentions raised by Ld. Sr.

PP for CBI that the punishment should run cosecutively as, if the

legislature has made the provision for consecutive then the court

has to award consecutive sentence. But in this case all the

convicts are on their advance stage. C-1 is more than 75 years old,

C-2 is aged about 65 years and C-3 is in late fifties. The crime

committed by all the convicts attracts consecutive sentence but

their keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case,

family background and also adopting a lenient view towards the CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 173 of 179 174 accused persons, in view of the facts as stated before the court

that son of C-3 is unemployed and patient of depression i.e.

Schizophrenia, unmarried daughters of C-2 and C-3 and health

conditions of C-1, a sympathetic and lenient view is taken by the

Court, especially when it is apparent that all the convicts have

undergone the pangs of procreated trial. 25 Thus, this Court keeping in view all the facts and

circumstances and health of the convicts, their age, their economic

condition and responsibility towards their family and maintaining

balance between reformative theory as argued by the Ld. Defence

counsels and arguments in favour of exemplary punishment to be

awarded as argued by the Ld. PP for CBI. 26 In this case, it has been brought before the court that C-

1 in connivance of C-2 and C-3 who are the Government servants

organised only to commit crime i.e. corruption in such a manner by

abusing their official position extended every possible help and

favour to C-1 to commit the crime of corruption and thus, caused

huge loss to the public exchequer. All the convicts never gave CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 174 of 179 175 second thought as per the facts before this court that what they

were doing is against the moral law and civilization. Therefore, the

court has convicted all such convicts, then definitely, they should

face the punishment which should not be exemplary but having

deterrent effect, so that other people should also take lesson that if

they commit similar act then definitely, they would also face the

consequences. Whatever loss suffered by the Public exchequer

should also be recovered as no body should be allowed to get

enrich by amassing ill-gotten wealth out of the malafide acts of

corruption. Keeping in view all the facts and circumstances of the

case, rival contentions of the parties and case law discussed, this

court is of the considered opinion that the punishment should be

given to all the convicts which is as under:- One Crore). In default of payment of fine, he is to further undergo

simple imprisonment for a period of 18 months. While imposing

the fine the court is taking into consideration very important fact that

the leased premises was being used by C-1 since the year 1989 for

the purpose of hotel business and by raising extra floors and thus,

he earned lot of profit as per the testimony of PW-9 recorded in this

case. Therefore, he is bound to pay earned profit to the State as

he was not entitled to earn all such profits as the premises was

allotted to him for the religious purposes only. (b) Convict M.K. Sharma (C-2), is the government

employee and from the evidence led by the prosecution, it has

come on record that C-2 by abusing his official position as a public

servant concealed the fact of unauthorized construction in violation CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 176 of 179 177 of the approved plan and allowed C-1 to carrying out hotel activities

instead of religious activities and thus, has been convicted and is

being awarded sentence of simple imprisonment for a period of 3

Years 6 months for the offences punishable U/s 120-B read with Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of P.C. Act. He is

further awarded sentence to undergo simple imprisonment for a

period of 3 Years 6 months years for commission of substantive

offence punishable u/s 13(2) r/w section 13(1) (d) of PC Act. He is

further directed to deposit fine of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lacs

only). In default of payment of fine, he is to further undergo simple

imprisonment for a period of 1 year. (c) Convict Sh. K.M Johri (C-3) from the evidence which

has come on record that C-3, being public servant in order to

extend favour to the C-1 submitted false NOC report dated

16.08.88 by concealing the fact of unauthorized constructions in

violation of the approved plan and thereby facilitated for issuance of

occupancy certificate by DDA and thus, has been convicted and is

being awarded sentence of simple imprisonment for a period of 3

Years 6 months for the offences punishable U/s 120-B read with CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 177 of 179 178 Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of P.C. Act. He is

further awarded sentence to undergo simple imprisonment for a

period of 3 Years 6 months for commission of substantive offence

punishable u/s 13(2) r/w section 13(1) (d) of PC Act. He is further

directed to deposit fine of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lacs only). In

default of payment of fine, he is to further undergo simple

imprisonment for a period of 1 year. 27 All the sentences shall run concurrently. 28 The fine imposed shall be dealt with U/s 357 (1) Cr.P.C .,

out of the collected fine 25 % shall be applied towards the

expenses incurred for the prosecution and is payable to CBI. Rest

75% of the total collected fine amount shall be released to the State

as compensation, who has suffered pecuniary loss due to the crime

committed by the convicts. 29 Benefit of Section 428 CrPC, if any, be given to all the

convicts. CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 178 of 179 179 30 All the convicts have been supplied with copy of

judgment and order on sentence free of cost separately. File be consigned to Record Room. Dictated and announced in ( Jitendra Kumar Mishra)
the open Court on 17.12.15 Special Judge, CBI (PC Act)
 East District, KKD Courts : Delhi CBI Vs. Dharamvir Khattar & Ors. Page 179 of 179