The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on June 17, released its Payments Vision 2025 , with a key focus on “strengthening the e-payments ecosystem” in India.

Continuing from the targets set earlier in the Payments Vision 2019-21 document, the primary objective of this new project looks to achieve an over three-fold increase in digital transactions and gain more control over the various sectors of e-commerce.

The proposals on the ‘Vision 25’ document include regulations for fintech and Big Tech firms in payments; guidelines on payments involving “Buy-Now-Pay-Later” (BNPL) services; introducing a central bank digital currency (CBDC); and linking credit cards and credit components of banking products to the Unified Payments Interface (UPI).

To achieve these goals, the RBI has planned 47 initiatives through which it aims to achieve 10 outcomes, including the UPI registering 50% annualised growth, Immediate Payment Service (IMPS) and National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) registering 20% growth and debit card usage surpassing credit card usage.

The central bank expects an increase in the payment transactions turnover vis-à-vis GDP to 8%; an increase in debit card transactions at point-of-sale terminals (PoS) by 20%; an increase in prepaid instruments (PPI) transactions by 150%, etc.

Why does it matter? Considering the vast increases in the number of digital transactions that the country has seen since the RBI had last come out with a roadmap document, it is imperative to note the plans that the central bank has for the upcoming years to get a better idea of what aspects of their policies, e-payments enablers should be focusing their energies on. Most importantly, the paper gives us an inkling of which verticals the bank’s governance wishes to extend to.

Below we have classified RBI Vision 2025’s contents into two broad objectives and one major outcome.

Never miss out on important developments in tech policy, whether in India or across the world. Sign up for our morning newsletter , with a “Free Read of the Day”, to experience MediaNama in a whole new way.

Electronic payment systems in India have grown more and more popular over the years. However, till 2022 they haven’t been of particular regulatory interest to the central bank. With ‘Vision 25’ the RBI seeks to push the envelope further in terms of rules and guidelines, in the name of user affordability, convenience and access.

“Resilience to operational and security concerns would continue to be at the heart to withstand and recover from the evolving threat landscape,” the document notes as part of its “core themes”. Not only does the RBI seem to be not only seeking more governance over the security of transactions but also covering data security and means of cover to defrauded customers.

Some of the more prominent security initiatives are discussed below:

The roadmap document notes that there is a change in customer behaviour in embracing digital and touchless modes of payments, with the COVID-19 pandemic playing a role in this change. There is an estimated 50% increase in mobile banking users with many of them being first-time users. One of the key challenges that this vision document envisages addressing is making this an irreversible shift.

Apart from listing the expected outcomes for ‘Payments Vision 2025’, the RBI laid out the plan for various initiatives which could contribute to achieving the outcomes. These are represented by the 5 Is i.e. “Integrity, Inclusion, Innovation, Institutionalisation and Internationalisation.” There are, in total, 47 specific initiatives outlined under the five broad goals.

Some of the highlights of these initiatives include:

The Reserve Bank’s three-year plan is geared to achieve 10 expected outcomes which could act as measurables for the various initiatives that are proposed in line with the five goals mentioned earlier. But all ten points can be summed up into one idea: “increase digital transactions and reduce cash dependency”.

These expected outcomes can be broadly classified as achieving two purposes – to reduce the usage of cash around the country and to increase the usage of various modes of digital payments including UPI, digital wallets and prepaid payment instruments (PPI).

The RBI looks to involve Big Tech companies and “encourage innovation” to pave way for solutions to meet these targets.

The RBI has been coming out with these ‘Vision’ documents since 2001. The previous iteration of this roadmap was published in 2019 titled ‘ Vision 2019-21 ’.

The adoption of digital modes for payments was one of the important outcomes for the initiatives envisaged in the 2021 document. The Indian banking regulator has stated that there is a 500% increase in the number of merchants accepting digital modes of payment by the end of September 2021, compared to the half-year ending March 2019. During the same period, the number of unique users of mobile banking increased by 99% and that of internet banking by 18%.

On the other hand, there was also a drop in the usage of paper instruments for retail transactions from 3.83% to 0.8% in terms of volume. However, one expected outcome which was not met by end of 2021, was the increase in the usage of debit cards for payment transactions, especially at PoS. The RBI speculates that lockdown measures due to the COVID-19 pandemic could be a major reason for the same. In 2019-20, 512 crores transactions were done through debit cards, while in the ensuing two years, it was 411 crores and 394 crores respectively. Meanwhile, there is an increase in credit card transactions in 2021-22 after a measured drop in 2020-21.

In its statement alongside the ‘Payment Vision 2025’ document, the RBI highlighted the current regulations which were listed in ‘Vision 2021’. These include – a waiver of charges for online transactions, full-day, all-year-round availability of NEFT, RTGS and National Automated Clearing House (NACH), frameworks for regulating payment aggregators, setting up of a Centralised Payments Fraud Information Registry (CPIFR), etc. among others.

Even as the Reserve Bank goes on to elaborate its 2025 objectives, here we take a look at what it is doing right now across various verticals of the e-payments space. All of these moves can be found in the roadmap. The section also briefly covers the banking regulator’s current stance on crypto since a central digital currency is also mentioned in ‘Vision 25’.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read also:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event