Price Waterhouse & Co. now known as
 Price Waterhouse & Co. Bangalore LLP,
 a partnership firm registered with the Institute
 of Chartered Accountants of India bearing
 Registration No. 007567S/S200012
 5th Floor, Tower D, The Millennia,
 #1 & 2 Murphy Road, Ulsoor,
 Bangalore - 560008. 2. Price Waterhouse & Co. now known as
 Price Waterhouse & Co. Chartered
 Accountants LLP, a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 304026E/E300009. Plot No. Y-14, Block EP, Sector V, Salt
 Lake, Electronics Complex, Bidhan Nagar,
 Kolkata - 700091. 3. M/s. Lovelock & Lewes, a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 301056E
 Plot No. Y-14, Block EP, Sector V, Salt
 Lake, Electronics Complex, Bidhan Nagar,
 Kolkata - 700091. 4. M/s. Lovelock & Lewes now known as
 Lovelock & Lewes LLP, a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 116150W/W100032. 252, Veer Savarkar Marg, Shivaji Park,
 Dadar (West), Mumbai - 400 028. 5. Price Waterhouse, a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 301112E. Plot No. Y-14, Block EP, Sector V, Salt
 Lake, Electronics Complex, Bidhan Nagar,
 Kolkata - 700091. 6. Price Waterhouse now known as Price
 Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, a
 partnership firm registered with the Institute
 of Chartered Accountants of India bearing
 Registration No. 12754N/N500016. Sucheta Bhawan, 11A Vishnu Digambar
 Marg, New Delhi - 110002. 7. Price Waterhouse & Co., a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 50032S. 8th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan,
 129-140, Greams Road, Chennai,
 Tamil Nadu 600006. 8. Price Waterhouse & Co. now known as Price
 Waterhouse & Co. LLP, a partnership firm
 registered with the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India bearing Registration No.
 016844N/N500015. Sucheta Bhavan, 1st Floor, 11-A, Vishnu
 Digambar Marg, New Delhi - 110002. 9. M/s. Dalal & Shah now known as Dalal &
 Shah LLP, a partnership firm registered with
 the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
 India bearing Registration No.
 102020W/W100040. 1701, 17th Floor, Shapath V, Opp. Karnavati
 Club, S. G. Highway, Ahmedabad 380051,
 Gujarat. 10. M/s. Dalal & Shah now known as Dalal &
 Shah Chartered Accountants LLP, a
 partnership firm registered with the Institute ...Appellants
 of Chartered Accountants of India bearing
 Registration No. 102021W/W100110. 252, Veer Savarkar Marg, Shivaji Park,
 Dadar (West), Mumbai - 400028. Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Janak Dwarkadas,
Senior Advocate, Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Mr. Zerick Dastur,
Ms. Archana Uppuluri, Mr. Kunal Kothary, Ms. Palak Agrawal,
Mr. Khushil Shah, Ms. Ruby Singh Ahuja and Mr. Anupam Prakash,
Advocates i/b Zerick Dastur Advocates & Solicitors for the
Appellants. Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kevic Setalvad, Senior
Advocate, Mr. Jayesh Ashar, Mr. Mihir Mody, Ms. Shreya Parikh,
Mr. Sushant Yadav and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates i/b K. Ashar
& Co. for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 7 of 2018 Price Waterhouse, Bangalore,
a partnership firm registered with the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India bearing
Registration No. 007568S. 5th Floor, Tower D, The Millennia,
1 & 2 Murphy Road, Ulsoor,
Bangalore - 560008. ...Appellant
 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ...Respondent 4 Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Zerick Dastur,
Ms. Archana Uppuluri, Mr. Kunal Kothary, Ms. Palak Agrawal and
Mr. Khushil Shah, Advocates i/b Zerick Dastur Advocates &
Solicitors for the Appellant. Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kevic Setalvad, Senior
Advocate, Mr. Jayesh Ashar, Mr. Mihir Mody, Ms. Shreya Parikh,
Mr. Sushant Yadav and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates i/b K. Ashar
& Co. for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 190 of 2018 S. Gopalakrishnan
LH5, 1404, Lanco Hills,
Manikonda, Rajendra Nagar,
Hyderabad - 500 089. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Mr. R. Sudhinder,
Ms. Prerana Amitabh and Ms. Vatsala Pant, Advocates i/b Argus
Partners for the Appellant. Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kevic Setalvad, Senior
Advocate, Mr. Jayesh Ashar, Mr. Mihir Mody, Ms. Shreya Parikh,
Mr. Sushant Yadav and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates i/b K. Ashar
& Co. for the Respondent. AND Appeal No. 191 of 2018 Srinivas Talluri
Flat No. 4B, Macherla Apartments,
6-3-1218/6, Umanagar, Begumpet,
Hyderabad - 500 016. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. R. Sudhinder,
Ms. Prerana Amitabh and Ms. Vatsala Pant, Advocates i/b Argus
Partners for the Appellant. Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kevic Setalvad, Senior
Advocate, Mr. Jayesh Ashar, Mr. Mihir Mody, Ms. Shreya Parikh,
Mr. Sushant Yadav and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates i/b K. Ashar
& Co. for the Respondent. CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Dr. C. K. G. Nair, Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. In this group of appeals, the appellants have questioned the

legality and veracity of the impugned order passed by the Whole

Time Member (hereinafter referred to as, 'WTM') of Securities and

Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred to as, 'SEBI') under Sections 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as, ' SEBI Act ') which empowers 6 SEBI to issue directions in the nature of remedies in the interest of

the securities market and investors in securities. 2. The WTM held that:- 3. Even though, separate appeals have been filed against a

common order we have clubbed all these appeals and are being

decided together by a common order. 4. Appeal No. 6 of 2018 has been filed by Price Waterhouse &

Co. alongwith nine other Chartered Accountant (CA) firms under the

banner "Price Waterhouse" (PW). Appeal No. 7 of 2018 has been

filed by Price Waterhouse, Bangalore. Appeal No. 190 of 2018 has

been filed by S. Gopalakrishnan and Appeal No. 191 of 2018 has

been filed by Srinivas Talluri. 5. The facts leading to the filing of the aforesaid appeals are that

PW Bangalore was given the audit for auditing the books of accounts

of Satyam Computers Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as

"SCSL"). The engagement partner for the audit of SCSL for the

period 2000-07 was S. Gopalakrishnan and for the financial year

2007-08 which was extended till September 2008, the engagement

partner was Srinivas Talluri. 6. SCSL was regarded as one of the top IT outsourcing firms in

the world. The Company had won numerous awards and accolades 8 including in the areas of its internal audit and corporate governance.

SCSL was admired as one of India's multinational companies. SCSL

was also listed in the New York Stock Exchange in 2001 after

necessary due diligence carried out by renowned merchant bankers

including Merrill Lynch. It is claimed that SCSL had been clocking a

good growth in line with peer companies and adding a number of top

customers each year. SCSL had eminent board members with

experience and qualifications in diverse fields as Independent

Directors. SCSL was very much in the limelight on account of media

and Analysts and there were no signs of adverse comments or

suspicious remark on its performances or the management came to

light. More also PCAOB conducted an oversight inspection on SCSL

as a US listed Company in 2006-07 and the inspection team did not

find any negative in the performance of SCSL as a whole. 7. In the year 2009, SEBI received an email dated January 7, 2009

from Shri B. Ramalinga Raju, the then Chairman of SCSL stating

that the statements of accounts of SCSL were not true and fair. The

e-mail basically revealed that there was large scale financial

manipulation in the books of accounts of SCSL, namely, that the

balance sheet of SCSL as of September 30, 2008 carried inflated /

non-existent cash and bank balances. 8. On the basis of this information, SEBI carried out an

investigation into the affairs of SCSL. The investigations revealed

that the statutory auditor of SCSL was Price Waterhouse Chartered

Accountant w.e.f. April 1, 2000. The investigations found that

certain directors and employees of SCSL had connived and

collaborated in the overstatement, fabrication, falsification and

misrepresentation in the books of account and financial statements of

SCSL. The published books of accounts of SCSL contained false and

inflated current account bank balances, fixed deposit balances,

fictitious interest income revenue from sales and debtors' figures.

The investigation also noted that the statutory auditors of SCSL had

connived with the directors and employees of SCSL in falsifying the

financial statements of SCSL. 9. On the basis of the investigation, a Show Cause Notice (SCN)

dated February 14, 2009 was issued to Price Waterhouse Bangalore,

Price Waterhouse's Company Bangalore, Price Waterhouse &

Company Kolkata, Lovelock & Lewes Hyderabad, S.

Gopalakrishnan and Srinivas Talluri directing them to show cause as

to why directions under Section 11 , 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act

should not be issued for violation of Sections 12A(a) , 12A(b) and 12A(c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3(c), 3(d), 4(1),

4(2)(a), 4(2)(e), 4(2)(f), 4(2)(k) and 4(2)(r) of the Securities and 10 Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003

(hereinafter referred to as, "PFUTP Regulations). Subsequently, a

supplementary show cause notice dated February 19, 2010 was

issued to the above persons/entities alongwith Lovelock & Lewis

Mumbai, Price Waterhouse Kolkata, Price Waterhouse New Delhi,

Price Waterhouse & Co. Chennai. Another show cause notice dated

February 19, 2010 was issued to Dalal & Shah Ahmadabad, and

Dalal & Shah Mumbai. 10. The show cause notice is a voluminous document. In a nutshell,

the respondent directed the appellants to show cause for : 11. It was also mentioned in the SCN that PWC International Ltd.

had approved 11 partnership firms consisting of Chartered

Accountants as their partners to use the name "Price Waterhouse" in

India. The auditor's report, balance sheets, Profit & Loss accounts of

SCSL were signed by S. Gopalakrishnan, Chartered Accountant for

the period from April 2000 to March 2007. S. Gopalakrishnan was a 13 partner in Price Waterhouse Bangalore as well as in Lovelock &

Lewes Kolkata. Srinivas Talluri was the Chartered Accountant who

signed the auditor's report, etc. of SCSL for the period from April

2007 to March 2008. He was a partner in Price Waterhouse

Bangalore and Lovelock & Lewes Kolkata as well as in Price

Waterhouse & Co. Kolkata. 12. It was further alleged in the SCN that the 11 firms have

common branch offices located in New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata,

Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Pune, Gurgaon, Bhuvneshwar &

Ahmedabad and there were several common partners in these firms.

These firms share resources, manpower, offices, revenues, etc.

amongst themselves and, for this purpose, the 11 firms have entered

into an agreement in 2000 for resource sharing. It was further stated

that the members of the "engagement team" which worked on the

audit of SCSL was on the pay roll of Price Waterhouse Kolkata and

Lovelock & Lewes Kolkata. 13. Two Writ Petitions were filed in July 2010 before the Bombay

High Court for the quashing of the SCNs on the ground that SEBI

lacked jurisdiction as it was encroaching upon the jurisdiction of

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). Writ Petition No.

5249 of 2010 was filed by Price Waterhouse Bangalore and Writ

Petition No. 5256 of 2010 was filed by 10 CA firms along with their 14 partners who were using the brand name "Price Waterhouse" in

India. By judgment dated August 13, 2010, the Bombay High Court

dismissed the Writ Petition holding that it cannot be said that SEBI at

that stage, had no jurisdiction to issue a SCN simply because the

appellants are professional Chartered Accountants. The Bombay

High Court, however, set out the scope and extent of SEBI's power

under Section 11 and 11B of SEBI Act read with Regulation 11 of

the PFUTP Regulations to act against Chartered Accountants and the

circumstances under which SEBI could issue direction to Chartered

Accountants acting in their professional capacity. The Bombay High

Court emphatically held that the jurisdiction of SEBI in the present

case would depend upon the evidence which is available during the

investigation and that if there was only some omission without any

mens rea or connivance with anyone, in any manner, then SEBI

could not issue any further direction. 14. The judgment of the Bombay High Court has become final

inter se between the parties, as it was not challenged before a higher

forum. All the parties thus, acquiesced to the observations / findings

/ directions given by the Bombay High Court. Much will depend

upon the scope and extent of SEBI's power against CAs as provided

by the Bombay High Court and therefore it would be necessary to 15 extract the relevant directions / observations of the Bombay High

Court. 15. The two Writ Petitions were principally directed against the

initiation of proceedings by SEBI against the CA's under the SEBI

Act . It was contended that SEBI lacked inherent jurisdiction to

enquire into the conduct of the appellants who were professionals. It

was asserted that the appellants are not required to submit to the

jurisdiction of SEBI unless SEBI was vested with such jurisdiction. It

was contended that it was not open to SEBI to encroach upon the

rights and powers of the ICAI provided under the Chartered

Accountants Act, 1949 (hereinafter referred to as ' CA Act '). It was

submitted that under the provisions of the SEBI Act and the

Regulations framed thereunder, directions can be issued by SEBI for

regulating the securities market, but beyond that, it had no power to

issue any such directions. It was contended that the powers of SEBI

cannot be construed to cover anybody under its umbrella on the

ground of regulating the securities market. The petitioners in Writ

Petition No. 5256 of 2010 submitted that the said petitioners had not

taken part in any manner in the matter of audit of accounts of the

Company and therefore the show cause notice could not be issued

against them. It was asserted that the show cause notice could not be

issued simply because the petitioners were associated with Price 16 Waterhouse & Company. It was contended that if there was any

occasion or request on the part of any Chartered Accountants in the

matter of discharging their professional duties, it is only the ICAI

which had the power to regulate the profession of the Chartered

Accountant (CA) under the CA Act . 16. The contention of SEBI before the High Court was that by

issuing notices to CA's and to the audit firms, SEBI was not

regulating the profession of CAs but was safeguarding the interest of

the investors as well as the securities market. It was asserted that if

by the acts and misdeeds of the CAs and its firms it was found that

the books of accounts and balance sheets had been manipulated, it

was open to SEBI to take remedial measures by keeping such

persons and entities at a distance. It was asserted that the show cause

notices were issued on the basis of the material available with SEBI

and ultimately if it was found that the books of accounts of the

Company were manipulated with knowledge and intent, then such

manipulation would have a direct bearing on the securities market for

which appropriate action could be taken. It was further asserted that

if during the enquiry any evidence is brought to the effect that the

auditors had connived and were in collusion with B. Ramalinga Raju

and had fabricated the accounts then SEBI could proceed against the

CAs and the audit firms. It was asserted that if the CAs had violated 17 the norms and standards of accounting prescribed by the CA Act ,

SEBI had powers to take regulatory measures for protecting the

investor's interest by taking appropriate steps against the CAs by

preventing the CA from auditing the books of accounts of such listed

Companies. It was thus contended that on the basis of prima facie

evidence of fudging the books of accounts SEBI had the power and

jurisdiction to issue notices and enquire into the matter. 17. The question whether SEBI as a market regulator could be said

to have jurisdiction to pass any of the directions as contained in the

SCN was considered by the Bombay High Court. Despite the fact

that the CA Act conferred exclusive jurisdiction upon the ICAI to

adopt disciplinary misconduct, the Bombay High Court held that in a

given case SEBI can pass orders directing CA to keep away from the

securities market from auditing listed Companies. However, such

directions came with a caveat, namely, that unless and until the

evidence on record established the "jurisdictional fact", SEBI could

not exercise any jurisdiction under the SEBI Act against a CA. 18. In Arun Kumar and Others vs. Union of India and Others [(2007) 1 SCC 732] the Supreme Court held: 19. On the question of jurisdiction, the Bombay High Court held

that it was not open to SEBI to encroach upon the powers vested with

the ICAI under the CA Act . The powers available to SEBI under SEBI Act are to be exercised in the interest of investors and interest

of securities market. Further, in order to safeguard the interest of

investors or interest of securities market, SEBI was entitled to take

all ancillary steps and measures to ensure that the interest of the

investors were protected. 20. The Bombay High Court held that the jurisdiction of SEBI

would depend upon the evidence which is available during such

enquiry and if any material was found against a CA to the effect that

he was instrumental in preparing false and fabricated accounts, then

SEBI had the power to take any remedial measures or preventive

measures in such a case. The Bombay High Court further held that

on conclusion of enquiry, if no evidence was available regarding

fabrication and falsification of accounts etc. then SEBI could not 19 give any direction in any manner. The Bombay High Court further

held that whether any particular firm of CA had any role to play in

any manner and if it was found that there was only some omission

without any means rea or connivance with anyone in any manner,

then on such evidence, SEBI could not give any further directions.

The Bombay High Court was quite specific in holding that the

jurisdictional fact would clearly depend upon the evidence that was

unearthed during the enquiry. 21. The Bombay High Court held:- and further held:- 22. The Bombay High Court held that the role of auditors is very

important under the Companies Act and owe a duty to the 21 shareholders and are required to give a correct picture of the financial

affairs of the Company. The Bombay High Court observed:- 23. On the question whether SEBI can regulate the profession of a

CA, the Bombay High Court held:- The Bombay High Court further held :- 24. The Bombay High Court held that it is open to SEBI to take

into consideration the accounting standards prescribed under the CA

Act to see if the CA has violated any audit norms then whether such

CA should be allowed to function as an auditor of a listed Company

if by construing such auditor of a listed Company it may hamper the

interest of the investors of such a listed Company. The Bombay High

Court however held that it is only the ICAI which is the regulating 23 body to consider the professional norms, but in a given case if there

is evidence to show that a CA has fabricated the books of accounts

etc., then SEBI can issue directions not to utilize the services of such

a CA in the matter of audit of a listed Company. The Bombay High

Court further went on to hold:- 25. The Bombay High Court after considering the scheme

of the SEBI Act held that in the instant case, on the basis of a

show cause notice, SEBI had the jurisdiction to enquire and

investigate the matter in connection with manipulation and

fabricating the books of accounts and balance sheet of the

Company. The Bombay High Court further held that the

power of SEBI are independent and does not encroach upon

the powers of the ICAI under the CA Act . The Court further

held that whether any of the CA and the CA firms had, with

intention and knowledge, tried to fabricate and fudge the

books of accounts was a matter of investigation and enquiry

by SEBI and, if ultimately if any evidence came on record to 24 this effect, in that event, SEBI could take appropriate steps.

The Bombay High Court thus held:- 26. Insofar as the petitioner's of Writ Petition No. 5256 of 2010

were concerned, the Bombay High Court held that SEBI would

adjudicate whether a petitioner firm of CA had any role to play and if

in a given case, ultimately it was found that there was only omission

without any mens rea or connivance with anyone, then on such

evidence, SEBI could not issue any further directions. The Bombay

High Court, in this regard, held:- 27. The findings of the Bombay High Court setting out the scope

and extent of SEBI's power to act against CAs and the circumstances 25 under which SEBI could issue directions to CA acting in their

professional capacity can thus be culled out as under:- 28. We have heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Senior Advocate along

with Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate and assisted by

Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Mr. Zerick Dastur, Ms. Archana

Uppuluri, Mr. Kunal Kothary, Ms. Palak Agrawal, Mr. Khushil Shah,

Ms. Ruby Singh Ahuja and Mr. Anupam Prakash, Advocates for the

appellants in Appeal No. 6 of 2018; Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior

Advocate along with Mr. Zerick Dastur, Ms. Archana Uppuluri,

Mr. Kunal Kothary, Ms. Palak Agrawal and Mr. Khushil Shah,

Advocates for the appellant in Appeal No. 7 of 2018; Mr. Gaurav

Joshi, Senior Advocate along with Mr. R. Sudhinder, Ms. Prerana

Amitabh and Ms. Vatsala Pant, Advocates for the appellant in

Appeal No. 190 of 2018; Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate

along with Mr. R. Sudhinder, Ms. Prerana Amitabh and Ms. Vatsala

Pant, Advocates for the appellant in Appeal No. 191 of 2018 and 27 Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate along with Mr. Kevic Setalvad,

Senior Advocate, Mr. Jayesh Ashar, Mr. Mihir Mody, Ms. Shreya

Parikh, Mr. Sushant Yadav and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates for

the respondent in all the appeals. 29. As per the directions of the Bombay High Court, the scope of

enquiry was restricted only to the charge of conspiracy and

involvement in the fraud and not to any charge of professional

negligence. The charge of conspiracy and involvement in the fraud

was required to be established on the basis of material available on

the basis of investigation. The Bombay High Court had narrowed the

scope of enquiry under the SEBI Act as it was aware that the

appellants are Chartered Accountant / Chartered Accountant firms

and were not dealing directly in the securities. The Bombay High

Court, thus, held that there must be evidence to show that the

engagement partners / audit firms had indulged in or were

instrumental in the fabrication of the books of account of SCSL and

that there was an intention or knowledge in connivance or collusion

with the management of the SCSL in fudging the books of account.

The Bombay High Court further held that if there was some omission

but without any mens rea then no further direction would be issued

otherwise it would encroach upon the jurisdiction of ICAI. Thus, the 28 scope of enquiry was limited to the conspiracy and involvement in

the fraud and not on professional negligence. 30. In this regard the term / words used consistently by the Bombay

High Court in its judgment becomes important and provides an

insight to the scope of enquiry. The Bombay High Court in its

judgment has consistently used the words "false", "fabricated",

"fabrication", "falsification", "concocted" and "fudge" in relation to

the books of account of SCSL. The Bombay High Court has also

used the words "indulged", "instrumental", "intention",

"knowledge", "connived", "collusion", "manipulation", "fraud" and

"mens rea" in the fabrication or falsification of the books of account.

These words speak volumes of the intent, scope and extent of the

enquiry to be conducted under the SEBI laws. 31. Black's Law Dictionary 8th Edition, defines "false" as untrue,

deceitful, lying, not genuine. What is false can be so by intent. The

term "fabricate" means to invent, forge or devise falsely. To fabricate

a story is to create a plausible version of events that is advantageous

to the person relating those events. The term is softer than a lie

(Black's Law Dictionary 7th Edition). "Falsification" means to

counterfeit or forge; to make something false; to give a false

appearance to anything. To make false by mutilation, alteration, or 29 addition; to tamper with, as to falsify a record or document (Black's

Law Dictionary 7th Edition). The word "falsify" may be used to

convey two distinct meanings- either that of being intentionally or

knowingly untrue, made with intent to defraud or mistakenly and

accidentally untrue (Black's Law Dictionary 8th Edition). Chambers

Dictionary 2004 Edition defines "concoct" as to fabricate, to plan,

devise, to make up or put together, to prepare. The same dictionary

defines "fudge" as the act of distortion, to cheat, to dodge, to cover

up and "indulge" as to yield to the wishes of, to favour, to gratify, to

gratify one's appetite freely. "Instrumental" has been defined as

acting as an instrument or means, serving to promote an object. means the act of manipulating by hands. 32. From the aforesaid, it becomes apparently clear that what the

Bombay High Court meant was that there must be evidence to show

that there was fabrication, falsification and fudging of the books of

account of SCSL by the appellants and that the said fabrication, etc.

was done with intent, knowledge, connivance and collusion with the

management in order to play a fraud on the shareholders / investors.

The evidence must be apparent and glaring and not on the basis of 32 preponderance of probabilities. There must be direct evidence of

falsification and fabrication of the books of account of SCSL. 33. This leads us to go into the question as to how WTM has

arrived at a finding that the appellants were guilty of misconduct and

were responsible for the fabrication of the books of account of SCSL.

The findings are as follows:- 34. In a nutshell, the WTM held that failure to seek external

confirmation of the bank balances, fixed deposits, failure to detect

fake invoices without adopting the rigorous procedure mandated by

AAS draws an inference of gross negligence and inference of

involvement in the fudging of the accounts. This gross negligence

amounts to an act of commission of a fraud for the purposes of SEBI 38 Act and SEBI PFUTP Regulations for which mens rea is not

required to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt but could be based

on a preponderance of probability. 35. Reliance has been made on a decision of the Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Shri Kanaiyalal

Baldevbhai Patel , (2017) 15 SCC 1 wherein the Supreme Court held

that mens rea is not indispensable in PFUTP violations. The Supreme

Court held:- 36. Before we deal with the findings given by the WTM and the

submission made by the parties it would be appropriate to extract the

provisions of Section 12A of the SEBI Act as well as Regulation

2(1)(b) , 2(1) (c) , 3 & 4 of the PFUTP Regulations which reads as

follows:- And "fraudulent" shall be construed accordingly;

Nothing contained in this clause shall apply to any general
comments made in good faith in regard to-- whether such comments are made in public or in
 private; Prohibition of certain dealings in securities 3. No person shall directly or indirectly-- defraud in connection with dealing in or issue
 of securities which are listed or proposed to
 be listed on a recognized stock exchange; (d) engage in any act, practice, course of
 business which operates or would operate as
 fraud or deceit upon any person in connection
 with any dealing in or issue of securities
 which are listed or proposed to be listed on a
 recognized stock exchange in contravention 42 of the provisions of the Act or the rules and the
 regulations made there under. 4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and
 unfair trade practices

 (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of
 regulation 3, no person shall indulge in a
 fraudulent or an unfair trade practice in
 securities. (2) Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a
 fraudulent or an unfair trade practice if it
 involves fraud and may include all or any of
 the following, namely:- .............. (e) any act or omission amounting to
 manipulation of the price of a security; (f) publishing or causing to publish or
 reporting or causing to report by a
 person dealing in securities any
 information which is not true or which
 he does not believe to be true prior to or
 in the course of dealing in securities;" ................ (r) planting false or misleading news which
 may induce sale or purchase of
 securities." 37. In Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Pan Asia

Advisors Limited and Another , (2015) 14 SCC 71 the Supreme

Court has set out the scope of Section 12A of the SEBI Act. The

Supreme Court held:- 38. In N. Narayanan vs Securities and Exchange Board of India ,

(2013) 12 SCC 152 the Supreme Court held:- impairs economic growth and erodes investor's
 confidence. Market abuse refers to the use of
 manipulative and deceptive devices, giving out
 incorrect or misleading information, so as to encourage
 investors to jump into conclusions, on wrong premises,
 which is known to be wrong to the abusers. The
 statutory provisions mentioned earlier deal with the
 situations where a person, who deals in securities, takes
 advantage of the impact of an action, may be
 manipulative, on the anticipated impact on the market
 resulting in the "creation of artificiality"." 39. Thus, Section 12A of the SEBI Act creates a clear prohibition

of manipulative and deceptive devices, insider trading and

acquisition of securities. Section 12A(a) ,(b) & (c) stipulates that no

person should directly or indirectly indulge in such manipulative and

deceptive devices in connection with the issue, purchase and sale of

any securities or use any device or engage in any act which would

operate as fraud or deceit on any person while dealing in securities.

The emphasis is on the word(s) "securities" and "dealing in

securities". The manipulative and deceptive devices which would

operate as a fraud or deceit is directly linked to "securities" and

"dealing in securities". If a person is not dealing in securities either

directly or indirectly then Section 12A would not be applicable. In

this regard "securities" have been defined under Section 2(h) of the

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ('SCRA Act' for short)

which is extracted hereunder:- and (iii) rights or interest in securities;" 40. "Dealing in securities" have been defined under Regulation

2(1)(b) of PFUTP Regulations, 2003 which has already been

extracted above, includes an act of buying and selling of any security

or otherwise transacting in any way in any security. The term

security has been defined under Section 2(h) of the SCR Act to

include shares, scrips, stocks, bonds, etc. Thus, Section 12A becomes 47 applicable only when a person deals in securities either directly or

indirectly and indulges in manipulative and deceptive devices, etc. 41. The scope of PFUTP Regulations, 2003 has been set out by the

Supreme Court in Kanaiyalal 's case (supra). The Supreme Court

held:- 11. Regulation 3 prohibits certain dealings in
 securities, whereas Regulation 4 prohibits
 manipulative, fraudulent and unfair practices. Regulation 5 deals with the power of the board to order
 investigation. Regulation 6 elaborates on the power of
 the investigating authority. 14.2. Clauses (i), (j), (l), (m), (p), (o) and (q) of sub-
 regulation (2) of Regulation 4 expressly make
 themselves applicable only to the case of intermediaries
 and not to individual buyers or sellers. 23. The object and purpose of the 2003 FUTP is to
 curb "market manipulations". Market manipulation is
 normally regarded as an "unwarranted" interference
 in the operation of ordinary market forces of supply
 and demand and thus undermines the "integrity" and
 efficiency of the market. 29. On a comparative analysis of the definition of
"fraud" as existing in the 1995 Regulations and the
subsequent amendments in the 2003 Regulations, it can
be seen that the original definition of "fraud" under the
FUTP Regulations, 1995 adopts the definition of
"fraud" from the Contract Act, 1872 whereas the
subsequent definition in the 2003 Regulations is a
variation of the same and does not adopt the strict
definition of "fraud" as present under the Contract Act .
It includes many situations which may not be a "fraud"
under the Contract Act or the 1995 Regulations, but
nevertheless amounts to a "fraud" under the 2003
Regulations. 30. The definition of "fraud" under clause (c) of Regulation 2 has two parts; first part may be termed as
catch all provision while the second part includes
specific instances which are also included as part and
parcel of term "fraud". The ingredients of the first part
of the definition are: The second part of the definition includes specific
instances: 33. Regulation 3 prohibits a person from committing
fraud while dealing in securities. A reading of the
aforesaid provision describes the width of the power
vested with SEBI to regulate the security market. In our
view, the words employed in the aforesaid provisions
are of wide amplitude and would therefore take within
its sweep the inducement to bring about inequitable
result which has happened in this instant case. 34. Regulation 4 prohibits manipulative, fraudulent
and unfair trade practices. It is to be noted that Regulation 4(1) starts with the phrase "without
prejudice to the provisions of Regulation 3 ". This
phrase acquires significance as it portrays that the
prohibitions covered under Regulation 3 do not bar the
prosecution under Regulation 4(1) . Therefore Regulation 4(1) has to be read to have its own ambit
which adds to what is contained under Regulation 3 . 39. It should be noted that the provisions of
Regulations 3(a), (b), (c), (d) and 4(1) are couched in
general terms to cover diverse situations and
possibilities. Once a conclusion, that fraud has been
committed while dealing in securities, is arrived at, all
these provisions get attracted in a situation like the one
under consideration. We are not inclined to agree with
the submission that SEBI should have identified as to
which particular provision of the 2003 FUTP
Regulations has been violated. A pigeon-hole approach
may not be applicable in this case instant. 47. Accordingly, non-intermediary front-running may
be brought under the prohibition prescribed under
Regulations 3 and 4(1), for being fraudulent or unfair
trade practice, provided that the ingredients under
those heads are satisfied as discussed above. From the
above analysis, it is clear that in order to establish
charges against tippee, under Regulations 3(a), (b), (c)
and (d) and 4(1) of the 2003 FUTP, one needs to prove
that a person who had provided the tip was under a
duty to keep the non-public information under
confidence, further such breach of duty was known to
the tippee and he still trades thereby defrauding the
person, whose orders were front-runned, by inducing
him to deal at the price he did. 54. The definition of "fraud", which is an inclusive
definition and, therefore, has to be understood to be
broad and expansive, contemplates even an action or
omission, as may be committed, even without any deceit
if such act or omission has the effect of inducing
another person to deal in securities. Certainly, the
definition expands beyond what can be normally
understood to be a "fraudulent act" or a conduct
amounting to "fraud". The emphasis is on the act of
inducement and the scrutiny must, therefore, be on the
meaning that must be attributed to the word "induce". 55. The dictionary meaning of the word "induced"
may now be taken note of: 56. A person can be said to have induced another
person to act in a particular way or not to act in a
particular way if on the basis of facts and statements
made by the first person the second person commits an 51 act or omits to perform any particular act. The test to
 determine whether the second person had been induced
 to act in the manner he did or not to act in the manner
 that he proposed, is whether but for the representation
 of the facts made by the first person, the latter would
 not have acted in the manner he did. This is also how
 the word "inducement" is understood in Criminal law.
 The difference between inducement in Criminal law and
 the wider meaning thereof as in the present case, is that
 to make inducement an offence the intention behind the
 representation or misrepresentation of facts must be
 dishonest whereas in the latter category of cases like
 the present the element of dishonesty need not be
 present or proved and established to be present. In the
 latter category of cases, a mere inference, rather than
 proof, that the person induced would not have acted in
 the manner that he did but for the inducement is
 sufficient. No element of dishonesty or bad faith in the
 making of the inducement would be required." 42. In the light of the above and on the totality of the facts in the

given case, we are of the opinion that while interpreting a statute, an

effort must be made to give effect to each and every word used by

the legislature. The Courts should presume that the legislature

inserted every part for a purpose and the legislative intention is that

every part of the statute should have effect. While interpreting a

provision, the effort must always be made to find out the true

intention behind the law. 43. From the aforesaid decisions and on a reading of the provisions

of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 & 4 of PFUTP

Regulations, it is apparently clear that the object of Section 12A & 52 PFUTP Regulations is to curb "market manipulations". The

manipulative and deceptive devices must be in relation to

"securities" and must be by a person "dealing in securities". The

Supreme Court in Kanaiyalal (supra) has expanded the term

'person' to include a non-intermediary culpable under the PFUTP

Regulations as the front runner was found to be dealing with the

securities. Further, the charge against the "tippee" was required to be

proved under Regulation 3(a) ,(b),(c),(d) & 4(1) of the PFUTP

Regulations. Further, the use of manipulative device was intended to

deceive another person. The Supreme Court thus enlarged the scope

of "fraud" under the PFUTP Regulations to cover an action or

omission even without deceit if such act or omission had the effect of

inducing another person to deal in securities. Thus, more than

"reckless or careless", "inducement" becomes more significant where

'fraud' is required to be proved. The Supreme Court held that mens

rea is not an indispensible requirement and fraud can be inferred on a

preponderance of probabilities. However, the inferential conclusion

must be arrived at from proven and admitted facts. 44. From the aforesaid, it becomes apparently clear that Regulation

3 and 4 of PFUTP Regulations applies only on persons dealing in

securities. The applicability can be extended to persons who are

associated with the securities directly or indirectly. Admittedly, the 53 appellants are not dealing in the securities either directly or

indirectly. They are auditors of listed companies. In order to bring

them culpable within the four corners of Section 12A and Regulation

3 and 4 of PFUTP Regulations, fraud has to be proved on the basis of

evidence. The Supreme Court in Kanaiyalal 's case (supra) extended

the applicability of the provisions of Regulation 3 and 4 of PFUTP

Regulation on a "tippee" only when a charge against him was

proved. In the instant case, there is no shred of evidence to show that

the auditor / audit firm had fabricated or falsified or fudged the books

of account of SCSL in collusion with the top management of the

SCSL. Further, fraud cannot be proved only on alleged gross

negligence, carelessness or recklessness as amounting to collusion

and connivance on a preponderance of probabilities. The Supreme

Court in Kanaiyalal 's case (supra) has categorically held that the

element of "inducement" must exist and should be proved before

holding that a person is guilty of fraud. In the instance case, there is

no finding that the appellants had induced someone and thereby

played a fraud in the securities market. Assuming without admitting

that the concept of preponderance of probabilities would also apply

in the case of the appellants, still, it must be proved by cogent

evidence that the appellants are guilty of "inducement". In the

absence, of any evidence, the charge of fraud is not proved, nor the

provisions of Regulation 3 and 4 of PFUTP Regulations applicable. 54 If there was gross negligence, recklessness in adhering to the AAS in

the course of auditing the accounts of SCSL, it can and can only

point out to professional negligence which would amount to a

misconduct to be taken up only by ICAI. 45. The evidence that has been brought on record indicates that

certain directors and employees had connived in the fabrication,

falsification and misrepresentation in the books of account and

financial statements of SCSL. The books of account contained false

and inflated current account bank balances, fixed deposit balances,

fictitious interest from sales. We find that there is no direct evidence

to show that the engagement partners / audit firms / other PW firms

were directly involved in the fabrication of the books of account of

SCSL. In fact, the Chairman of SCSL has gone on record in so many

words that the statutory auditors were kept in the dark and that they

had no role to play in the fudging of the books of account. 46. The fraud at SCSL involved deception by way of manipulation,

fabrication, alteration of accounting records and supporting

documents from which the financial statements were prepared.

Apparently, audit team's audit procedures did not reveal SCSL's

alleged fraud because there was a devious systematic scheme by the

SCSL's Directors, management and employees to circumvent SCSL 55 own corporate governance structure, internal controls and internal

audit as well as the statutory audit process. The modus operandi of

this complex fraud was perpetuated by the management of SCSL

which deceived the naked eye of the auditors. The fake sale invoices

as in the case of genuine sale invoices had a perfect document trail

like purchase orders, time sheets, master software, service

agreements, etc. and therefore very difficult to detect. 47. The scope of the enquiry as directed by the Bombay High Court

was restricted only to the charge of conspiracy and involvement in

the fraud and not to any charge of professional negligence. The

charge of conspiracy or connivance was required to be established by

the respondent on the basis of the material available pursuant to the

investigation. The Bombay High Court while passing the order was

conscious of the fact that Chartered Accountants were not amenable

to SEBI Act . The order of the Bombay High Court was thus passed

in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the given case wherein

jurisdiction was conferred upon SEBI only if it proved that on the

basis of the material the Chartered Accountant was instrumental in

preparing false and fabricated accounts or had connived in the

preparation and falsification of the books of accounts. 48. In our view, action against a Chartered Accountant can be taken

only in terms of Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 . SEBI cannot in 56 the garb of proving conspiracy and connivance on the part of the

Chartered Accountant interpret the auditing standard on a standalone

basis. The auditing standards can only be related to the

professionalism of a Chartered Accountant vis-à-vis its professional

misconduct which can only be considered by the ICAI. 49. The respondent on the basis of the material was required to

prove that the audit firm or the engagement partners had willfully

with intent and knowledge connived with the management of SCSL

in the fabrication and falsification of the accounts and induced the

investors in taking a wrong decision. No such finding has been

arrived at by the WTM in the impugned order. 50. The WTM has dwelt at great length in considering the auditing

standards prescribed under the Chartered Accountants Act in coming

to a conclusion that the auditors acted in reckless or careless manner

and thus committed a "fraud" as defined under Section 2(c) of the

PFUTP Regulations. The approach adopted by the respondents is

patently misconceived and based on surmises and conjectures. In the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, a finding of guilt cannot

be imposed upon the appellants on the basis of preponderance of

probabilities. There has to be a specific finding that there was an

intention on the part of the engagement partners and/or of the audit

firm that they had deliberately with intention and knowledge 57 fabricated the books of accounts of SCSL in connivance with the top

management of SCSL. In the instant case, there is overwhelming

evidence to show that the fabrication and falsification of books of

accounts was done only by the top management of SCSL and that the

engagement partners as well as the audit firm had no clue nor had

any hand in this fraud. Thus, pinning down the engagement partners

and the audit firms on a preponderance of probabilities that they had

committed a big fraud in a reckless and careless manner cannot in

our view lead to a conclusion that there was any intention or mens

rea on their part. The High Court was very clear and categorical that

SEBI could only proceed under the SEBI laws only if there was a

specific finding of mens rea against the engagement partners and / or

the audit firm. 51. The contention that the term "mens rea" should be broadly

construed and recklessness should be equated to be a part of the term

"mens rea" is erroneous. On this issue, reliance by the respondents

in the case of Naresh Giri vs. State of M.P. (2008) 1 SCC 791 is

misplaced as it was dealing with Sec. 304A of the Indian Penal Code

where it was observed that a person is reckless if he carried out a

deliberate act knowing that there is some risk of damage resulting

from that act but nevertheless continues in the performance of that

act. It was also stated that there are only two states of mind which 58 contributes mens rea, namely, "intention" and "recklessness". In the

instant case, both elements are missing. No such finding to this

extent has been given by the WTM. The said decision is thus not

applicable. Contention that proof of intention is not required and that

standard of proof can be based on preponderance of probabilities is

also misplaced Reliance on this issue in Securities and Exchange

Board of India vs. Rakhi Trading P. Ltd. 2018(13) SCC 753 is

wholly erroneous. In the case of Rakhi Trading (supra) the standard

of proof was based on preponderance of probability in synchronized

trading under the PFUTP Regulations. That principle is applicable to

persons dealing in the securities market and is not applicable in the

instant case. In the instant case, mens rea was not proved. There is

no finding that the auditors or the audit firms had knowledge or had

intention to connive or collude with the management in the

fabrication of the books of account of the company. 52. On the issue of fraud reliance by SEBI on the decision of the

Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Shri

Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel , (2017) 15 SCC 1 is misconceived. The

contention of SEBI that it can exercise its jurisdiction on a Chartered

Accountant as the definition of fraud under Section 2(c) of PFUTP

Regulations includes any representation made in a reckless or

careless manner cannot be applied in the facts of the present case. 59 The decision of the Supreme Court in Kanaiyalal matter (supra) was

passed where the person was dealing directly in securities. In the

present case directions have been issued in a matter where a

Chartered Accountant has certified the books of accounts. Such act

of Chartered Accountant by no stretch of imagination could be

treated as dealing directly or indirectly in securities. It is in this light

that the Bombay High Court clearly held that mens rea is required to

be proved and that there must be an intention and knowledge that an

engagement partner / audit firm connived or colluded with the

management in the falsification and fabrication of the books of

account. The High Court clearly recorded:- In furtherance to the aforesaid, the Bombay High Court further

held :- 53. Thus, in order to issue any directions under the SEBI Act , SEBI

was required to establish with evidence regarding "connivance" and 60 "collusion" by the auditors with the management of SCSL in the

falsification of the books of accounts. In the present case there is no

shred of evidence of any connivance or collusion nor there is any

finding of actual collusion or connivance by the engagement partners

and / or by the audit firm with the management of SCSL. 54. In this regard Section 11(4)(b) of the SEBI Act provides that

the Board may by an order for reasons to be recorded in writing, in

the interest of investors or securities market, take measures to

restrain persons from accessing the securities market and prohibit

any person associated with the securities market to buy, sell or deal

in securities. Taking this provision into consideration, the Bombay

High Court accordingly laid down the parameters by which SEBI

could issue a direction against a Chartered Accountant while

certifying the books of accounts of SCSL. The provisions of the SEBI Act cannot be construed to take into its sweep any professional

who is remotely connected with the securities market by way of

certifying the books of accounts. Such inclusion would necessarily

expand the scope and ambit of the SEBI Act and simultaneously

encroach upon the powers of the ICAI under the Chartered

Accountants Act . 55. The impugned order deals at length with the non-adherence to

the auditing standards issued by ICAI. These auditing standards 61 cannot be utilized to prove conspiracy or connivance on the part of a

Chartered Accountant in the absence of any material evidence.

Reliance on the auditing standards would only, at best, lead to a

finding of a lapse in the professional work of Chartered Accountant

which can become a ground for professional misconduct to be taken

up strictly by the ICAI but such lapse under no circumstances could

lead to a conclusion that the engagement partner / the audit firm had

with intent manipulated the books of accounts in a reckless or

careless manner. 56. Let us now consider what is the role of an auditor. Under Section 224 of the Companies Act, 1956, a Company is required to

appoint an auditor. Under Section 226 of the Companies Act, an

auditor must be a Chartered Accountant within the meaning of the CA Act . Section 227 provides powers and duties of an auditor. Under

Section 229, an auditor is required to sign the auditor's report. Under

Section 230, the auditor is required to read the auditor's report before

the Company in general meeting. Failure to comply with the

provisions of the Companies Act entails penalty upon the auditor

under Section 233 of the Companies Act. 57. Auditing and Assurance Standards (AAS) has been framed by

ICAI relating to the role and responsibility of an auditor. Under

AAS2, the objective of an audit of financial statements, prepared 62 within a framework of recognized accounting policies and practices

and relevant statutory requirements, if any, is to enable an auditor to

express an opinion on such financial statements. The auditor's

opinion helps determination of the true and fair view of the financial

position and operating results of an enterprise. The user, however,

should not assume that the auditor's opinion is an assurance as to the

future viability of the enterprise or the efficiency or effectiveness

with which management has conducted the affairs of the enterprise.

The auditor's work involves exercise of judgement, for example, in

deciding the extent of audit procedures and in assessing the

reasonableness of the judgements and estimates made by

management in preparing the financial statements. Furthermore,

much of the evidence available to the auditor can enable him to draw

only reasonable conclusions therefrom. Because of these factors,

absolute certainty in auditing is rarely attainable. In forming his

opinion on the financial statements, the auditor follows procedures

designed to satisfy himself that the financial statements reflect a true

and fair view of the financial position and operating results of the

enterprise. The auditor recognizes that because of the test nature and

other inherent limitations of an audit, together with the inherent

limitations of any system of internal control, there is an unavoidable

risk that some material misstatement may remain undiscovered.

While in many situations the discovery of a material misstatement by 63 management may often arise during the conduct of the audit, such

discovery is not the main objective of audit nor is the auditor's

programme of work specifically designed for such discovery. The

audit cannot, therefore, be relied upon to ensure the discovery of all

frauds or errors but where the auditor has any indication that some

fraud or error may have occurred which could result in material

misstatement, the auditor should extend his procedures to confirm or

dispel his suspicion. 58. Under AAS 4, the primary responsibility for the prevention and

detection of fraud and error rests with both those charged with the

governance and the management of an entity. The respective

responsibilities of those charged with governance and management

may vary from entity to entity. Management, with the oversight of

those charged with governance, needs to set the proper tone, create

and maintain a culture of honesty and high ethics, and establish

appropriate controls to prevent and detect fraud and errors within the

entity. An auditor cannot obtain absolute assurance that material

misstatements in the financial statements will be detected. Owing to

the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that

some material misstatements of the financial statements will not be

detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in

accordance with the auditing standards generally accepted in India. 64 An audit does not guarantee that all material misstatements will be

detected because of such factors as the use of judgment, the use of

testing, the inherent limitations of internal control and the fact that

much of the evidence available to the audit is persuasive rather than

conclusive in nature. For these reasons, the auditor is able to obtain

only a reasonable assurance that material misstatements in the

financial statements will be detected. The risk of not detecting a

material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than the risk of

not detecting a material misstatement resulting from error because

fraud, generally, involves sophisticated and carefully organized

schemes designed to conceal it, such as forgery, deliberate failure to

record transactions, or intentional misrepresentations being made to

the auditor. Such attempts at concealment may be even more difficult

to detect when accompanied by collusion. Collusion may cause the

auditor to believe that evidence is persuasive when it is, in fact, false.

The auditor's ability to detect a fraud depends on factors such as the

skillfulness of the perpetrator, the frequency and extent of

manipulation, the degree of collusion involved, the relative size of

individual amounts manipulated, and the seniority of those involved.

Audit procedures that are effective for detecting an error may be

ineffective for detecting fraud. Furthermore, the risk of the auditor

not detecting a material misstatement resulting from management

fraud is greater than for employee fraud, because those charged with 65 governance and management are often in a position that assumes

their integrity and enables them to override the formally established

control procedures. Certain levels of management may be in a

position to override control procedures designed to prevent similar

frauds by other employees, for example, by directing subordinates to

record transactions incorrectly or to conceal them. Given its position

of authority within an entity, management has the ability to either

direct employees to do something or solicit their help to assist

management in carrying out a fraud, with or without the employees'

knowledge. The auditor's opinion on the financial statements is based

on the concept of obtaining reasonable assurance; hence, in an audit,

the auditor does not guarantee that material misstatements, whether

from fraud or error, will be detected. Therefore, the subsequent

discovery of a material misstatement of the financial statements

resulting from fraud or error does not, in itself, indicate: This is particularly the case for certain kinds of intentional

misstatements, since auditing procedures may be ineffective for 66 detecting an intentional misstatement that is concealed through

collusion between or amongst one or more individuals in the

management. Whether the auditor has performed an audit or not in

accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in India is

determined by the adequacy of the audit procedures performed in the

circumstances and the suitability of the auditor's report based on the

result of these procedures. However, unless the audit reveals

evidence to the contrary, the auditor is entitled to accept records and

documents as genuine. Accordingly, an audit performed in

accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in India rarely

contemplate authentication of documentation, nor are auditors trained

as, or expected to be, experts in such authentication. 59. Under AAS 30, the auditor should determine whether the use of

external confirmations is necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate

audit evidence to support certain financial statement assertions. In

making this determination, the auditor should consider materiality,

the assessed level of inherent and control risk, and how the evidence

from other planned audit procedures would reduce audit risk to an

acceptably low level for the applicable financial statement assertions.

The auditor should employ external confirmation procedures in

consultation with the management. In deciding the extent to use

external confirmations, the auditor is required to consider the 67 characteristics of the environment in which the entity being audited

operates and the practice of potential respondents in dealing with

requests for direct confirmation. When obtaining evidence for

assertions not adequately addressed by confirmations, the auditor

considers other audit procedures to complement confirmation

procedures or to be used instead of confirmation procedures. 60. Under AAS 28, the report should include a statement that the

financial statements are the responsibility of the entity's management

and a statement that the responsibility of the auditor is to express an

opinion on the financial statements based on the audit. Financial

statements are the representations of management. The preparation of

such statements requires management to make significant accounting

estimates and judgments, as well as to determine the appropriate

accounting principles and methods used in preparation of the

financial statements. This determination will be made in the context

of the financial reporting framework that management chooses, or is

required to use. In contrast, the auditor's responsibility is to audit

these financial statements in order to express an opinion thereon. The

auditor's report should describe the audit as including: The report should include a statement by the auditor that the

audit provides a reasonable basis for his opinion. 61. Further, considering the auditing practices adopted by the ICAI,

the Bombay High Court in Tri-Sure India Ltd. vs A.F. Ferguson

and Co. and Others 1985 SCC OnLine Bom 342 : (1987) 61 Comp

Cas 548, held:- and further held- The Court further held- On consideration of the authorities cited at the Bar,
 the principles which can be carved out are as
 follows: 62. In Re Kingston Cotton Mill Company, 1896 2 Ch 279 the

Court of Appeals examined the role of auditors and held that an

auditor is not an insuror and that in the discharge of his duty, he is

only bound to exercise a reasonable amount of care and skill

depending on the circumstances of that case. The notion that the 70 auditor is bound to be suspicious as distinguished from reasonably

careful would lead to a serious error. 63. In Institute of Chartered Accountants of India vs P.K.

Mukherjee , AIR 1968 SC 1104, the Supreme Court held:- 64. In Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of

Finance Vs S.N. Das Gupta , AIR 1956 Cal 414, the Calcutta High

Court while examining whether a Chartered Accountant was guilty

of negligence in the discharge of his duties as auditor held:- 65. In the light of the aforesaid, picking one para of an AAS and

thus holding the appellants to be guilty of gross negligence and

recklessness in conducting the audit is misplaced. Merely because

the auditors failed to seek direct confirmation from the Bank relating

to bank balances and fixed deposit does not amount to gross

negligence or recklessness. AAS should be read as a whole. No

doubt, under AAS-30 there is a responsibility of sending letters

seeking external confirmation and, by not seeking external

confirmation, the auditors failed to exercise care and prudence.

However, it does not mean that there was gross negligence or

carelessness or that the auditors had any intention to defraud the

shareholders of the investors especially when alternate procedure as

per para 39 of AAS-30 was adopted and no fault was found in 72 following such procedure. It may be noted here that SCSL enjoyed a

good reputation for corporate governance and thus there was nothing

wrong in accepting the bank statements and fixed deposits provided

by SCSL. The same were on the letterhead of the Bank and there

was no reason to suspect that the bank statement or the fixed deposits

were not genuine. Merely saying that the norms laid down in AAS

were not followed leads to an inference of gross negligence is

misplaced. The auditor is required to employ reasonable skill and

care and is not required to proceed in the manner of trying to detect a

fraud. When the bank statements were presented by SCSL, the

auditor was entitled to accept the document as genuine. Subsequent

discovery of a material misstatement does not in our opinion amounts

to gross negligence or recklessness amounting to fraud or complete

failure to comply with the auditing standards. At best, it amounts to a

lapse. The audit could have been conducted with more care and

prudence. 66. The contention that the auditor should proceed with the attitude

of professional skepticism as mandated under AAS-4 is misplaced.

Picking a para somewhere from an AAS does not mean that the

auditor only has to sniff like a bloodhound and proceed with an

attitude of professional skepticism. The entire AAS is required to be

considered as a whole to see what are the duties of an auditor and 73 what professional standards are required to be mentioned. Reliance

by the respondents of a decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals in Kyle

Pippins vs. KPMG LLP, MANU/FESC/0889/2014 has no

application to the present controversy. The Court was faced with the

question whether the plaintiffs were entitled to receive overtime

compensation. It was found that the plaintiffs received substantial

specialised education as accountants and held that they were

employed in a professional capacity and thus were not entitled to

receive overtime compensation. While considering the kind of

specialization, the Court observed that professional skepticism

includes having a questioning mind and not doing something

mindlessly, but with perpetual diligence founded in specialized

knowledge and with consistent exercise of discretion and judgment.

None of the above has been found in the impugned order except that

the auditor should proceed with an attitude of professional

skepticism. The WTM lost fact that there are other accounting

standards apart from AAS-4. 67. Reliance on the decision in United States vs Benjamin 328 F.

2D 854 (1964) of the US Court of Appeals is misplaced. The case

was concerned with a securities fraud by an accountant. The Court

was examining whether there was sufficient evidence to convict the

accountant. In that context, the Court held that the accountant 74 deliberately closed his eyes to facts he had duty to see. The

accountant was convicted for conspiring willfully. It was found that

the accountant had knowledge of the falsity of his reports and

deliberately conspired to defraud investors. In that light the Court

observed that the accountant deliberately closed his eyes. No such

finding to this extent has been found in the instant case. 68. From the aforesaid decisions, the principles which can be

culled out is that the auditor is required to employ reasonable skill

and care but the auditor is not required to begin with suspicion or to

proceed in the manner of trying to detect a fraud or a lie, unless some

information has reached which creates suspicion. What is reasonable

care and skill must depend upon the circumstance of each case. The

auditor is not required to perform the functions of a detective. The

auditor is a watchdog and not a blood hound. The duty of an auditor

is verification and not detection. 69. Audit regulators around the world have identified certain

themes, such as the need to exercise more professional skepticism in

difficult audit areas. The circumstances may indicate a need for

deeper examination of how the firms can improve audit quality so

that the audit can serve as reliable and useful for shareholders and

investors. There is a need to maintain a high quality audit on a

consistent basis. In the Indian Courts, the audit oversight mechanism 75 is still evolving. The Companies Act, 2013 now mandates

constitution of a separate National Financial Reporting Authority

which would, inter alia, also review quality of services provided by

the member of the ICAI which has already been set up in 2018.

Complaints against auditors could be considered by this authority but

professional skepticism in isolation cannot be considered under SEBI

Laws. Under Section 28B of the CA Act, a Quality Review Board

has been constituted to perform the following functions, namely- (i) to make recommendations to the Council with regard to

 the quality of services provided by the members of

 Institute; (ii) to review the quality of services provided by the members

 of the Institute including audit services; and (iii) to guide the members of the Institute to improve the

 quality of services and adherence to the various statutory

 and other regulatory requirements. 70. Thus, in view of the aforesaid, SEBI as a regulator has no

authority under SEBI laws and regulations to look into the quality of

audit services performed by the auditors. 71. Detecting fraud is difficult, especially, involving material

financial statement, misstatements, which occur in about 2 percent of 76 all financial statements (as per the study on forensic accounting and

fraud detection issued by ICAI). Normally the documents supporting

omitted transactions are not kept in Company files. False

documentation is often created or legitimate documents are altered to

support fictitious documents. While fraud detection techniques will

not identify all frauds, the use forensic audit increases the likelihood

that misstatements or defalcators could be detected. The job in

forensic audit is to catch the perpetrators of the financial theft and

fraud which could range from money laundering, tax evasion, false

documentation, etc. Auditing the books of account and forensic

auditing are two different and distinct areas. The procedures for

financial audits are designed to detect material misstatement and not

in material frauds. There is no doubt that many of the financial

misstatements and frauds could be detected with the use of financial

audits which can only be done by a detailed examination of the audit

trail as well as the events and activities behind the documents. This

procedure is problematic and involves a lot of time. On the other

hand, financial audit is dependent on sample documents and reliance

on the audit trail coupled with the fact that financial audit has to be

completed within a stipulated period. 72. Thus, the auditor must not be made liable for not tracking the

carefully laid schemes of fraud when there was nothing to arouse 77 their suspicion especially when the fraud is perpetuated by the top

management of the Company and remain undetected for years. The

auditor does conduct the audit with the objective of discovering all

frauds. When an action is taken against the auditor, one has to look at

the facts which have been subjected to scrutiny and explained by the

auditors. The duty of the Tribunal is to endeavour and ascertain what

was the problem presented to the auditor and what was the

knowledge available to them at the time of audit. In our opinion it

would not be fair to consider the case with hindsight and hold that

the auditor was grossly negligent or reckless in the discharge of their

duties. One must keep in mind the facts available at the time of the

alleged negligence by the auditors and one should not be cowed

down by the facts that emerged after a scrutiny was carried out by the

special audit. So also the standard of care, while assessing the

practice as adopted is justified in the light of knowledge available at

the time of incident and not at the time of trial. The law requires that

a professional man lives up in practice to the standard of the ordinary

skilled man exercising and preferring to have special professional

skill. He need not possess the highest expert skill; it is enough if he

exercises the ordinary skill of an ordinary competent man exercising

his particular art. 73. In Bolam vs Friern Hospital Management Committee [1957]

1 WLR 582 it was held:- 74. In Eckersley & Others vs. Binnie & Others, the Court of

Appeal (Civ Div) held :- 75. The aforesaid principle was adopted by the Supreme Court in Jacob Mathew vs State of Punjab and Another (2005) 6 SCC 1. In

Re: A Vakil, ILR (1925) 49 Mad, it was held that negligence by

itself is not a professional misconduct. It must have the element of

moral delinquency. Similar view was adopted by the Supreme Court

in Pandurang Dattatraya Khandekar vs. Bar Council of

Maharashtra, Bombay and Ors. AIR 1984 SC 110. 76. SEBI under the SEBI Act enjoys wide powers under Section

11 , 11A and 11B to protect the interests of the investors in the

securities market by taking such measures as it thinks fit. In Securities and Exchange Board of India vs Pan Asia Advisors

Limited and Others (2015) 14 SCC 77, the Supreme Court held:- 77. Under Section 11-B , SEBI has been invested with
 powers in the interest of the investors or orderly
 development of the securities market or to prevent the
 affairs of any intermediary or other persons referred to
 in Section 11 in themselves conducting in a manner
 detrimental to the interest of investors of securities
 market and also to secure proper management of any
 such intermediary or person. It can issue directions to
 any person or class of persons referred to in Section 11 or associated with securities market or to any company
 in respect of matters specified in Section 11-B in the
 interest of investors in the securities and the securities
 market. The paramount duty cast upon the Board, as
 stated earlier, is protection of interests of the investors
 in securities and securities market. In exercise of its
 powers, it can pass orders of restraint to carry out the
 said purpose by restraining any person." 77. In Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited and Others

vs Securities and Exchange Board of India and Another (2013) 1

SCC 1, the Supreme Court held the SEBI Act is a special law and a 81 complete code in itself containing elaborate provisions with respect

to protection of the interests of the investors. The SEBI Act is a

special Act dealing with a specific subject which has to be read in

harmony with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . The

Companies Act and the SEBI Act will have to work in tandem in the

interests of the investors. The Supreme Court held:- 78. Thus, the powers conferred on SEBI under Section 11 and 11B is to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the

development of and to regulate the securities market. Therefore, the

measure to be adopted by SEBI is remedial and not punitive. In a

given case a measure of debarring a person from entering the 82 securities market will be justified, but in our view, banning an audit

firm or an auditor from auditing the books of a listed Company or

from certifying any report of a listed Company cannot be justified.

By no stretch of imagination, a direction debarring an auditor from

auditing the books of a listed Company can be said to be remedial in

nature. A remedial action is to correct a wrong, or a defect. Preventive measure can be issued in a given case of unfair trade

practice or where fraud is proved. However, in the instant case, the

direction to debar the auditor from auditing the books of a listed

Company is neither remedial nor preventive. In fact, the direction is

clearly punitive and violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution

of India as it takes away the fundamental right to carry on its

business. Reliance on the decision of Bank of Baroda vs. Securities

and Exchange Board of India (2000) SCC OnLine SAT 2 to

contend that the powers under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act

are very wide and includes entities not within the regulatory purview

of SEBI is misplaced. The decisions in Bank of Baroda, Sahara and

Pan Asia deal with entities and market participants over whom SEBI

has direct jurisdiction under the SEBI Act and its Regulations. Thus,

the role of debarment is beyond the scope and powers under Section

11 and 11B of the SEBI Act. Direction under Section 11 and 11B of

the SEBI Act can be issued to a person associated with the securities

market. Such directions can only be remedial. If such person is not 83 dealing in securities then only remedial direction could be issued.

Preventive directions cannot be issued. In our opinion, debarment is

punitive. We may further point out that ICAI had initiated

proceedings against the auditors under the CA Act and cancelled

their license to practice as CA. Once their license has been cancelled,

there was no need for SEBI to issue an order of debarment. In our

opinion, it was a redundant exercise in view of Section 226 of the

Companies Act which stipulates that only a CA under the CA Act could audit a Company. Once the license of an auditor to practice as

a CA has been cancelled by the ICAI, the question of auditing the

books of account of any company does not arise. 79. Appeal No. 6 of 2018 has been filed by ten partnership firms of

CA comprising several partners having their head office at various

places in India. The said ten firms are registered with the Institute of

Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) established under the CA Act .

The said ten firms does not deal in securities either directly or

indirectly. Further, the ten firms were never the statutory auditor of

Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCSL). 80. The charge against the said ten firms is that they are entities /

firms practicing as CA in India under the brand and banner of Price

Waterhouse (PW) and are liable for the audit of SCSL on the basis of 84 them being a member of network of firms under the banner Price

Warehouse (PW). 81. As regards the liability of the firms in the PW Network, the

following facts, as revealed during the investigation, are relevant for

consideration: 82. It has been alleged in the SCNs that these 11 firms have

common branch offices located at New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata,

Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Pune, Gurgaon, Bhubaneswar and

Ahmedabad and there are several common partners in these firms.

These firms share resources, manpower, offices, revenues etc.

amongst themselves and, for this purpose, the ten firms entered into

an agreement with each other. Most of the 'engagement team'

members which worked on the audit of SCSL were on the payroll of

Price Waterhouse, Kolkata and Lovelock and Lewes, Kolkata. 83. As per available documents, PW network firms in India are

linked to each other on the following two fundamental basis: 86 84. The WTM by the impugned order restrained the ten firms from

issuing any certificate of audited listed companies under the brand 87 and banner PW and further directed the listed companies and

intermediaries registered with SEBI not to engage any one firm

forming part of the PW network for issuing any certificate with

respect to compliance of statutory obligations with SEBI. The

reasoning and finding of the WTM leading to the passing of the

impugned order was based on the following reasons:- 85. It was contended that the impugned order is manifestly

erroneous in law and the directions given by the Bombay High Court

was totally disregarded. The impugned order is stated to have been

passed under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act which empowers

SEBI to issue directions in the nature of remedies in the interest of

the securities market and investors in securities. It was urged that the

action taken in the impugned order is not remedial but punitive in

nature. It was contended that the alleged irregularities from 2000 to

2009 was only noticed when B. Ramalinga Raju made a statement in

January 2009 with regard to financial manipulation in the books of

account of the SCSL. The impugned order was passed on January 10,

2018 after nine years from the date of issuance of the SCN. It was

thus urged, that no remedial action could be taken after nine years.

The action had become stale and the delay caused, at the instance of

SEBI, was not curable. 86. It was urged that the ban imposed is on the CA firms and not on

the partners. It was contended that as on the date of the impugned

order there were 98 partners in the ten firms out of which 70 are new

partners who were not partners of the firms during the period 2000 to

2009 and thus banning them from doing audit work of listed

Company merely because those are presently partners in PW firms is

wholly arbitrary and illegal. Further, 90% of the staff engaged in the

"engagement team" are different now and debarring them for no fault

of theirs was thus also arbitrary and illegal. 87. It was thus contended that vicarious liability of a CA cannot be

extended to the firm and other firms other than the audit firm nor the

vicarious liability could be fastened upon the new partners who

admittedly had no role in the audit of SCSL as they were not partners

at the relevant moment of time. 88. It was contended that the WTM has failed to consider the

provisions of The Partnership Act, 1932 which governs the appellant

firms. The learned counsel submitted that under Section 31(2) of The

Partnership Act, 1932 a partner is not liable for any act of the firm

before he became a partner and thus submitted that the present

partners who were not partners at the relevant moment of time could

not be held liable for any act of the firm or its erstwhile partners. 91 89. It was contended that the ten firms were not involved in the

audit of SCSL. Each of the ten firms is a separate legal entity

registered with ICAI and has its own budget and is assessed

separately under the Income Tax Act . The ten firms have a resource

sharing agreement with each other, based on which the ten firms

share resources, manpower, offices, etc. The sharing of such

resources is to facilitate mobilizing of space, manpower at short

notice and, does not in any way, make the ten firms as one big unit /

firm. 90. Insofar as the engagement team was concerned, it was urged

that the manpower were on a payroll of PW firms of Calcutta and

Lovelock & Lewes Calcutta and their services were paid by PW

Bangalore who undertook the audit of SCSL. 91. It was contended that banning the ten firms on the strength that

they are part of the PW network was wholly illegal. Sharing of

resources, offices, manpower was permissible by ICAI which

governs the profession of CAs and thus holding that such networking

under the brand name PW was responsible for the fraud in SCSL was

totally farfetched which cannot be sustained under any provision of

law. It was contended that each of the ten firms is a separate entity 92 registered separately with the ICAI and is assessed separately under

the Income Tax Act . 92. It was urged that the ban order was wholly illegal and in

violation of Article 14 & 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. 93. The stand of SEBI before us is the same. The learned senior

counsel submitted that the findings given by the WTM does not

suffer from any error of law. It was contended that under the SEBI

Act , especially under Section 11 & 11B of the Act, SEBI enjoys wide

and extensive power to issue any measures in the interest of investors

and to promote the development of, and regulate the securities

market. It was urged that one of the powers which SEBI can exercise

is to issue a direction of debarment against persons associated with

the securities market. 94. It was contended that the SCSL scam had a direct and adverse

impact in the share market. The prices of SCSL scrip fell drastically.

Millions of investors lost their hard earned money on account of

abject failure on the part of the statutory auditor of SCSL in failing to

comply with its duty to the shareholders of ensuring fairness and

accuracy in the audited accounts. It was urged that failure to comply

with the basic auditing standards constituted fraud and thus it was 93 vital to uphold the directions in the impugned order against all PW

entities. 95. It was contended that even though PW Bangalore is stated to

have taken up the audit assignment of SCSL, the audit assignment

was accepted on behalf of PW. The letterhead did not mention PW

Bangalore. In fact, the letter of acceptance was issued on the

letterhead of PW Hyderabad and thus an irresistible inference can be

drawn that all PW CA firms were one and the same under a common

brand and network. This is further fortified that persons deployed for

the audit were sourced from other PW firms of PW network. 96. The learned senior counsel submitted that the PW network

enabled the PW entities to set up and maintain standards of auditing

which were grossly deficient as per accounting norms prescribed by

ICAI. The PW entities were projecting themselves as a brand value

under the banner PW. Since the auditing standards across PW entities

were deficient, it became imperative to issue directions against all the

PW entities network. It was contended that since partners and staff

were sourced from other PW entities, the gross non-compliance with

accounting standards was not limited to those partners and staff but

was related to all PW entities. It was urged that PW Bangalore was

not representing the audit of SCSL. In fact, the network of PW

entities represented themselves as the single network and functioned 94 as one "loose knit" unit. It was thus urged that the appellant's

contention that each firm was independent and a separate entity

cannot be accepted. In any case, the alleged independence and

individuality of the PW entities was not taken upon by them before

the regulatory authorities in USA and the action taken against them

was accepted by the appellant. Thus, it does not lie in their mouth to

contend that they are independent entities. 97. It was further urged that the resource sharing agreement

between the PW entities clearly indicated that they were entitled to

draw resources from other firms and share notes relating to

maintaining professional standards of accounting. The agreements

makes it apparently clear that the firms worked closely with each

other, as part of the PW network to maintain common standards in

auditing and other services and therefore functioned as one

consolidated unit. 98. In the light of the aforesaid, the admitted fact that is culled out

on which there is no dispute is, that the ten firms are not dealing in

the securities market. These firms are auditors registered with ICAI.

They are independent bodies and have their own budget, maintain

separate books of account and are assessed separately as a separate

entity by the Income Tax Authority. These firms have no stakes in 95 one another. These ten firms were not the statutory auditors of SCSL

and were not involved in the auditing of the books of account of

SCSL. There is no evidence of revenue sharing between the PW

firms. 99. There is no evidence to indicate that the ten firms had any role

to play in the audit of SCSL. These ten firms had nothing to do with

the audit of SCSL. They had no knowledge of the day to day affairs

of SCSL either directly or indirectly. There is not even a whisper of a

finding in the impugned order against the ten firms about any

connivance or collusion or intention or knowledge on their part in the

audit of SCSL. The entire basis of debarring the ten firms is the

resource sharing agreement, the brand PW and the networking of PW

as a brand. In our opinion, the approach adopted by the WTM is

patently erroneous and is flawed. 100. In the absence of any finding of connivance or collusion or

intention or knowledge on the part of the ten firms in the audit of

SCSL, and in view of the clear cut directions of the Bombay High

Court, no directions could have been issued by the WTM against the

ten firms. The reasoning adopted by the WTM in relation to the

resource sharing agreement, the brand PW and the networking of the

PW cannot be accepted. 101. The ten firms have entered into a resource sharing agreement in

which resources are shared pursuant to an agreement and on the basis

of consideration and without liability being transferred. For facility,

the contents of the agreement is extracted hereunder:- 102. The resource sharing agreement makes it clear that the firms

could draw collective resources employed amongst the firms on an

"as necessary" basis in order to ensure rendering of quality services

to their respective clients in the field of audit, etc. For the services

rendered consideration would be paid to the said firm. Clause (E) of

the agreement makes it apparently clear that the responsibility and

liability will remain with the audit firm relating to the professional

assignment executed by such firm and the firm which is providing

any kind of resources would not be made liable or responsible.

Clause (F) further amplifies that firms providing resources would not

give any authority in favour of that firm to represent on behalf of

other firms of the firm which has been given the audit. Further, the

resource sharing agreement would not constitute a partnership

between them and the sharing of resources would be purely on a

principal-to-principal basis. 103. The WTM on the basis of this resource sharing agreement has

concluded that the said agreement indicates a network between the

PW firms. It is an admitted fact that one of the PW firms, namely,

Lovelock & Lewes provided the staff which formed part of the

engagement team deputed to work on the SCSL audit. As per the

resource sharing agreement, this arrangement was permissible. There

is evidence to the effect that the Bangalore firm paid Lovelock & 99 Lewes for the services rendered by them. No evidence of any

misconduct of any kind has surfaced with regard to any member of

the engagement team. 104. Thus, engaging staff from another PW firm was permissible

under the resource sharing agreement which was allowed by ICAI.

Therefore, no adverse inference of any kind of networking can be

drawn. Further, the mere fact that Srinivas Talluri and S.

Gopalakrishnan were also partners in other PW firms does not mean

that all PW entities is one big entity or are working under one

umbrella. If the law permits a person to be a partner in two or more

firms, then it is permissible for that person to become partners in

more than one firm. Misconduct committed by a partner in one firm

will not make the second firm liable. Under the Companies Act it is

permissible for a person to be a director in many Companies. If one

director of a Company commits a violation of any SEBI laws and is

penalized it does not mean that other Companies in which the said

person is also a director are also penalized. Thus, if Srinivas Talluri

and S. Gopalakrishnan are partners in a CA firm, a fault committed

by them in that firm would not affect their liability in other CA firms. 105. ICAI has formulated Rules of Network amongst the firms

registered with the ICAI. These Rules enable the practice of CA

firms as a Network on a sharing of resources basis. In order to 100 appreciate as to what in fact is a network, it would be relevant to

extract a few provisions of the Rule:- 2. An entity shall not be treated as an affiliated
 of another merely for the reason that they (a) Share professional knowledge and data
 base. (b) Refer certain professional assignment or
 authorize the other to represent certain
 specific matters. 3. If different Indian firms are network with a
 common Multi‐National Accounting Firms (MAF)
 then irrespective of the presence/absence of any
 affiliate relationship between the Indian firms
 inter‐set they shall be considered as part of a
 network) (ii) Formal Network - Formal network means a
 network amongst two or more firms registered
 with The Institute of Cost Accountants of India
 (ICAI) where the object of network is to use the
 collective resources of the affiliates for execution
 of professional services of one or more type at one
 and/or at multination points. The resources would
 include financial technical and other logistic
 support required to execute the professional
 assignment. In such type of network, the common
 resources may be pooled and exhibited together
 the service user as those belonging to one
 particular set of professional. 3. Name of Network: 4. Registration: 5. Ethical Compliance : 6. Consent of Client: 109. In accordance with the AAS 28, the audit opinion has been

signed by the engagement partner, namely, Mr. Srinivas Talluri who

has also put his ICAI membership number and the name of the firm

which conducted the audit i.e. the appellant in Appeal No. 7 of which

he was a partner. Clause 27 of the AAS 28 requires "place of

signature" to be mentioned in the auditor's report. Accordingly, the

place of signature i.e. Hyderabad was mentioned. Thus, it is clear

that the letterhead bearing "Price Waterhouse" and the name of

"Price Waterhouse" appearing in the signature clause is not the

network of firms as suggested by SEBI. It is the name of the firm

which conducted the audit namely "Price Waterhouse". The ICAI

registration number of this auditing firm is 07568S. 107 110. SEBI's argument that the audit opinions were signed by the

network of Price Waterhouse is legally untenable and contrary to the

applicable law. Section 226(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 provides

that- Therefore, the stress on the words "We", "our" etc in the audit

opinion means that it represents the PW network is absolutely

erroneous in as much as the representation was only by the concerned

firm which conducted the audit. 111. SCSL and shareholders knew that they were appointing a firm

and not a brand or a PW network. Further, SCSL and its shareholders

knew that the specific partner alone would carry out the audit and not

entire Firm. Audit can only be performed by a partner on behalf of a

Firm and thus, the audit opinions have been signed by the concerned

engagement partners of SCSL responsible for the audit. Section 229 108 of the Companies Act is a complete answer to the aforesaid. It

provides:- 112. The definition of "engagement partner" under the ICAI Code of

Ethics means the partner or other person in the firm who is a member

of the ICAI and is in full time practice and is responsible for its

engagement and its performance and its report that is issued on

behalf of the firm and, who, where required, as an appropriate

authority from a professional, legal or regulatory body. Much stress

has been laid by the WTM on the engagement letter to mean that the

audit was given to the PW network. The approach adopted is

erroneous. The engagement letter is addressed by the firm which was

appointed as the auditor viz., the appellant in Appeal No. 7 and not

by the network of firms. Clause 12 of the Code of Ethics by ICAI

states that- 113. The engagement letter indicates that it is the firm and not the

network that has issued the engagement letter as can be seen from the

letter heads and the signature clause of the engagement letters issued

by firms Dalal & Shah, Price Waterhouse & Co. and Lovelock &

Lewes. Similarly, even the letter for appointment of statutory

auditors was addressed by SCSL to Mr. Gopalakrishnan at the

Hyderabad branch of appellant in Appeal No. 7. The response was

addressed by the Mr. Gopalakrishnan of the appellant in Appeal

No. 7. 114. The WTM referred to certain letters to show that the letters

were being addressed in the name of "Price Waterhouse" from the

Shivaji Park office in Mumbai. It was thus urged that it was that PW

network that was auditing the accounts of SCSL. The submission of

the respondent is untenable for the same reasons that the said letters

were issued by the appellant in Appeal No. 7 and not by the network

firms. The Shivaji Park address is the branch office of the appellant

in Appeal No. 7. It was signed by a partner of the appellant in Appeal

No. 7. This does not in any way show any acceptance of

responsibility by the network of appellant firms as alleged by SEBI. Section 27 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 permits 110 maintenance of branch offices for Chartered Accountancy firms

"Maintenance of branch offices: where a chartered accountant in

practice or a firm of chartered accountants has more than one office

in India, each one of the offices shall be in separate charge of a

member of the institute. This clearly explains signing of the letter by

the Shivaji Park branch of the appellant in Appeal No. 7 by one of its

partner. 115. Thus the mere fact that the webpage of PWC India describes

that they have offices at various places in India does not mean that

they refer to the offices of the ten firms in question. The webpage of

PWC global may describe PWC as a brand but it does not mean that

it includes the brand PW which is operational in India. In any case,

even if there is a network of PW firms, implicating the ten firms on

the ground of networking as PW firms is misconceived and

untenable. There has to be a specific finding that the ten firms were

in collusion and that there was intention and knowledge to play fraud

in the audit of SCSL. 116. The webpage of PWC or PWC global does not identify that PW

entities are working closely with each other under the same brand

and identify themselves with the said brand. Even if the PW brand is

being used by the ten firms, it does not lead to an inference that these

ten firms are PWC and the same entity. Using the brand PW, does 111 not make the ten firms liable for the act done by one PW firm. The

liability for acts or omissions is certified to individual firms and

cannot be passed on to the network firms using PW brand. The

resource sharing agreement between the firms relates to sharing of

certain types of resources. It was nothing to do with the brand PW.

The ten firms have been allowed to use the PW name from the

PWCIL UK. The mere fact that PW firms in India are members of

PWCIL UK and are allowed to use the brand PW does not make

them into a "loose knit network arrangement as one consolidated

entity" and thus be made liable. If any advantage is gained by using

the brand PW, it does not mean that all the PW firms are working

under one umbrella even if the network is omnipresent and

identifiable by its name. 117. The contention that investors were misled into believing that

the audit was carried out by an international firm called PW is

patently erroneous. The international firm is called PWC and the

Indian firm is PW. There is a world of a difference between PWC

and PW. 118. Much reliance has been placed on the settlement orders of the

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Public Company

Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). To elaborate on this issue, 112 we find that in the aftermath of the SCSL scam, the SEC and the

PCAOB of the United States of America deemed it appropriate to

institute "cease and desist" and censure proceedings against PW,

Bangalore, Lovelock and Lewes, Kolkata, Price Waterhouse & Co.

Bangalore, PW, Kolkata and Price Waterhouse & Co. Kolkata

(Appellant Nos. 1, 5 and 2 in Appeal No. 6 of 2018). These

proceedings were instituted pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Securities Act which, inter alia, dealt with an auditor lacking in

character or integrity or found to have engaged in unethical or

improper professional conduct or willfully violated or aided or

abetted the violation of the securities laws. The consenting PW

entities anticipated the institution of these proceedings and submitted

'an offer of settlement' which was accepted by the SEC and PCAOB.

In the light of the said offers of settlement, consent orders were

passed by both, SEC and PCAOB dated 5th April 2011. In the order

dated 5th April 2011, the SEC observed that there had been gross

violations of the auditing standards in the SCSL audit. 119. The WTM has relied upon certain observations made in these

orders, some of which are extracted hereunder:- 120. We have perused the SEC order and PCAOB order. We are of

the opinion that the observations made in the said orders cannot be

relied upon as a piece of evidence in as much as these are settlement

orders where the firms agreed to settle with SEC and PCAOB in

exchange for a reasonable order involving remedial measures as a

result of which the firms were allowed to continue with the existing

audit engagement. The settlement orders issued a slew of remedial

measures which was accepted and acted upon by the appellants. In

our view, the settlement orders have no precedential value in SEBI

proceedings. If SEC and PCOAB are to be relied upon by SEBI, then

they should have also issued similar measures and further allowing

PW firms to continue with the existing audit arrangement instead of

debarring them from auditing listed Companies. The appellants have

denied the findings and observations in these orders and in our

opinion are entitled to deny these findings in any other legal or

regulatory proceedings. Whereas, SEC & PCAOB had jurisdiction

over auditors of US listed Companies, the same is not the case with

SEBI. We may point out that PCAOB in its order acknowledged at

multiple places that PW Bangalore served as SCSL's auditor. The

PCAOB also recorded that Price Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore, Price

Waterhouse, Calcutta and Price Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta did not

participate in the audits of SCSL. 121. In our view the observations made in SEC & PCAOB orders

that failure in the confirmation process in the SCSL audit were not

limited to that engagement but were indicative of a quality control

failure throughout PW India or the observations that there had been

gross violations of the auditing standards in the SCSL audit cannot

be utilized. The WTM, in order to implicate the PW firms was then

required to go into the individual accounting standards adopted by

each firm in relation to their audit engagement with their listed

Company and then arrive at a finding that the accounting standards

were not a per the standards prescribed by the ICAI. Resource

sharing agreement would not in our view lead to a conclusion that

each firm was adopting the same accounting standards as adopted by

the audit firm which audited SCSL. Thus, reliance by the WTM on

the SEC & PCAOB orders does not prove connivance or collusion,

nor leads to a conclusion that these firms do not meet with the

prescribed accounting standards as per ICAI. 122. The decision in S. Sukumar vs. Secretary, Institute of

Chartered Accountants of India , (2018) 14 SCC 360 relates to

possible violation of Section 25 and Section 29 of CA Act and

FEMA Regulations. The observations given are only prima facie. In

fact the Supreme Court directed the Union of India to constitute a

three member Committee of experts to look into the statutory 116 framework of Sections 25 and 29 of the CA Act and to bring

appropriate legislation for oversight of the profession of auditors, etc.

In the instant case, the jurisdiction of SEBI to pass orders against CA

is governed by the Bombay High Court order which provides that

SEBI has to establish intention, knowledge, connivance, collusion,

mens rea on the part of a CA. The order of Bombay High Court is

binding on SEBI. 123. There is one other aspect which nails the issue and this is Section 31(2) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. For facility, the

provision is extracted hereunder:- 124. The aforesaid provision is patently clear. A new partner

inducted into a firm is not liable for any act of the firm done before

he became a partner. Further, when a new partner is taken or an

existing partner retires with the consent of all the partners, it becomes

a case of reconstitution of the partnership firm under Section 187 of

the Income Tax Act. Where a firm is dissolved either by agreement

of the partners or by operation of law and another firm takes over the

business, then it will be a case of succession governed by Section 117 188 of the Income Tax Act as held by a Full Bench of the Allahabad

High Court in Dahi Laxmi Dal Factory vs. Income Tax Officer,

Sitapur , 1974 All LJ 883. 125. Thus, the liability of a new partner commences from the date of

his admission as a partner in the firm. He is not liable for the pre-

existing debts. Unless there is an agreement to show that the

incoming partner is liable for the pre-existing debts, a new partner

cannot be made liable to honour the liabilities of the old firm before

he became a partner. 126. In this regard, reliance is placed on the judgment of Sharad

Vasant Kotak and Ors vs Ramnik Lal Mohanlal Chawda and Anr. [(1998) 2 SCC 171]. Paragraph 16 of the judgment states:- 127. From the aforesaid, it is apparently clear that every time there is

a change in the partnership, the firm is treated to have been 118 reconstituted and appropriate filings are done as per Regulation

190(4) and 190(7) of CA Regulations, 1988. 128. In this regard the appellants have taken a specific plea in

paragraphs 6.20 and 6.24 of the memo of appeal, namely, that a

majority of the current partners of the ten firms became partners only

after 2009. This fact has not been denied by the respondent. As on

the date of the impugned order there were 98 partners in the ten firms

out of which 70 are new partners who were not partners of the PW

firms during the period 2000 to 2009. Thus banning them from doing

audit work of listed Company merely because they are presently

partners in PW firm is in complete violation of Section 31(2) of the

Partnership Act. Specific arguments were raised by the ten firms on

this issue before this Tribunal which was not countered by the

respondent. However, in the written submission a feeble assertion

was made to the effect that the SEBI Act is a standalone statute and

the direction issued under the SEBI Act cannot be tested on the basis

of the provisions of the other Acts. It was asserted that securities

fraud is unique and must be viewed in the context of the securities

market and innocent investors which cannot be rectified by resorting

to conventional and old laws. Such submissions show bankruptcy of

ideas. Instead of conceeding, the attitude of the respondent appears to

be that SEBI and SEBI laws are superior, and that SEBI cannot be 119 brow beaten. The respondent has lost sight of Section 32 of SEBI Act

which specifically provides that the provisions of the SEBI Act shall

be in addition to, and not in derogation of the provisions of any other

law for the time being in force. Such "old" law is the Partnership Act which is still in force and is squarely applicable. 129. Section 4 of The Partnership Act, 1932 defines a "partnership".

The Supreme Court in Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, (Law)

Board of Revenue (Taxes), Ernakulam vs. M/s. K. Kelukutty,

(1985) 4 SCC 35 explained partnership as- 130. The aforesaid makes it clear that partners may be different

even though the business may be same, still it would constitute two

separate distinct partnership and therefore two distinct firms. 131. In Ritesh Agarwal and Another vs Securities and Exchange

Board of India and Others , (2008) 8 SCC 205, the Supreme Court

held:- 132. The said principle is squarely applicable in the instant case. If

the appellants have violated the provisions of the Companies Act they can be prosecuted there under but the respondent cannot invoke

the SEBI laws in this cavalier fashion which violates the appellants'

fundamental right to carry on business as envisaged under Article

19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. 133. There is yet another aspect. The show cause notice was issued

on February 14, 2009 and August 26, 2009. The impugned order was

passed on January 10, 2018. It took SEBI nine long years to complete

the proceedings and the fault lay entirely on SEBI. The request of the

appellants to cross examine certain individuals whose statements

were relied upon by SEBI was rejected. This Tribunal on June 1,

2011 allowed the appeal and directed SEBI to allow cross

examination. SEBI did not do so and took the matter to the Supreme

Court and kept it pending for six years. The Supreme Court on

January, 2017 held that the stand of SEBI was incorrect and directed 122 that cross examination and inspection should be allowed to the

appellants. 134. During the pendency of the proceedings, the appellants were

carrying on their business and auditing listed companies to the

satisfaction of the shareholders and / or of the investors without any

blemish. Over the last decade, the appellants have adopted extensive

remedial measures as per SEC / PCAOB settlement orders. The

independent monitors appointed by SEC / PCAOB have certified that

remedial measures have been successfully implemented, meaning

thereby that the audit quality met with the requisite standards. Thus

looking from this angle also, the order of debarment was not the

appropriate choice. 135. Thus, considering the aforesaid we are of the view that the

order of WTM debarring the PW firms to audit listed company on the

ground of PW network or projecting it as a PW brand cannot be

sustained. 136. There is no doubt that there has been a professional lapse on the

part of the auditors in conducting the audit especially their failure to

seek direct confirmation from the Bank relating to Bank Balances

and fixed deposits. These lapses amounted to negligence. Action has

already been taken by ICAI against the auditors. Negligence is the 123 breach of duty caused by omission to do something which a

reasonable man is guided by these considerations to do something

which a prudent and reasonable man would not do so. Negligence

becomes actionable on account of a lapse or omission amounting to

negligence. In the concept of negligence amounting to an offence, the

element of mens rea must be shown to exist, but under Torts,

negligence becomes actionable on account of lapse or omission.

Once you breach your duty, negligence becomes actionable as there

has been a failure to attain that standard of care. 137. A professional such as an auditor comes under a category of

persons professing some special skill. Any task which is required to

be performed with a special skill would generally be undertaken to

be performed only if the person possesses the requisite skill for

performing that task. The only assurance which such professional can

give is, that he is possessed of the requisite skill in that branch of

profession which he is practicing and that he would be exercising his

skill with reasonable competence. This is what a person / Company

approaching the professional can expect. 138. Thus, a professional may be held negligent if he is not

possessed of the requisite skill which he professed to have possessed

or he did not exercise with reasonable competence. The standard to

be applied for judging whether the person charged has been negligent 124 or not, would be that of an ordinary competent person exercising

ordinary skill in that profession. It is not necessary for that person to

possess the highest level of expertise in that branch which he

practices. 139. In the light of the aforesaid, the WTM found that for this

negligence, the auditors and the firms benefitted by way of charging

a fee amounting to Rs. 13,09,01,664/-. The WTM was of the opinion

that this wrongful gain was liable to be disgorged. We find that for

this professional lapse, there has been a breach of duty and failure to

maintain that standard of care. For this lapse / negligence, we are of

the opinion that the appellants were not justified to retain this

amount. In our opinion, the WTM was justified in disgorging the said

amount along with interest. The power was rightly exercised under Section 11 and 11-B of the SEBI Act to persons who in some way

was associated with the securities market as well as under the Companies Act . 140. For the reasons stated aforesaid, the order of the WTM of SEBI

debarring the PW firms as well as the two auditors from auditing

listed Companies cannot be sustained and is quashed. Directions to

listed Companies not to engage any audit firm forming part of PW

network is also quashed. Appeal No. 6 of 2018, Appeal No. 190 of

2018 and Appeal No. 191 of 2018 are allowed. The order of the 125 WTM disgorging the amount is sustained and consequently Appeal

No. 7 of 2018 is partly allowed. In the circumstances of case, parties

shall bear their own costs. Sd/- Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Dr. C. K .G. Nair
 Member

09.09.2019
Prepared and compared by:msb