The two plaintiffs viz. a) H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, Sweden and b) H & M Hennes & Mauritz Retail Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi have sued the

defendants no.1 to 4 viz. i) HM Megabrands Pvt. Ltd., ii) Mr. Arif Merchant, iii) Mr. Hamza Arif Merchant and iv) Mr. Hashim Arif Merchant, inter alia

for injunction restraining passing off / infringement of trade mark /

 of the plaintiffs, by use of the trade mark and for

ancillary reliefs. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 1 of 36 2. The suit along with the application for interim relief came up before

this Court first on 2nd June, 2016 when the defendants being on caveat

appeared and the hearing of the application for interim relief was deferred to

the after notice stage. Pleadings were completed and the senior counsel for

the plaintiffs and the senior counsel for the defendants were heard on 22 nd

August, 2016 and 23rd August, 2016 and order reserved. 3. It is the case of the plaintiffs i) that plaintiff no.1 H & M Hennes &

Mauritz AB, Sweden is the proprietor of the trade marks H&M, /

 and the plaintiff no.2 H & M Hennes & Mauritz Retial Pvt. Ltd.,

New Delhi is a subsidiary of plaintiff no.1 in India and carries on business

under the trade / service mark / name H&M, / on behalf of the

plaintiff no.1; ii) that plaintiff nos.1&2 form part of the H&M Group of

companies which are designers / marketers / sellers of wide and varied

fashionable clothing collection and ancillary products / services for women,

men, teenagers and children; iii) that plaintiff no.1 has more than 4000 stores

/ outlets in 61 markets worldwide and provides goods through online

shopping in 21 countries; iv) that plaintiff no.1 adopted the trade mark /

name „H&M‟ in early 1970 and secured earliest registration for the mark IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 2 of 36 in the year 1985 in the United Kingdom; v) that the defendant no.1

HM Megabrands Pvt. Ltd. of which defendants no.2 to 4 are officers /

Directors are engaged in the business of marketing, supplying, selling of

garments and ancillary products under the mark / name HM/ since

the year 2011 and applied for registration thereof on 11 th April, 2014; vi) that

a comparative analysis of the plaintiffs‟ and defendants‟ marks / artworks is

as under: United Kingdom : August 01, 1985 Application filed on April 11,
 India: October 21, 2005 2014 2. the defendants is in violation of the plaintiffs‟ copyright as well; viii) that in

India, the trade mark / of the plaintiffs is registered under

No.1393619 in Classes 25 and 35 since October, 2005; ix) that apart from

being a well known trade mark, / forms a prominent part of

the corporate name of the plaintiffs; x) that plaintiffs have also registered

domain names comprising the mark / name „HM‟/ „HM.com‟ which was

registered in the year 1998; xi) that the website www.hm.com contains

information on the plaintiffs and their business and is used / accessed

extensively by customers all over the world; xii) that information / news

pertaining to plaintiffs and the mark / name „H&M‟ is readily available and

frequently accessed through search engines such as www.google.com, IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 5 of 36 www.yahoo.com and www.msn.com; xiii) that plaintiffs have been

manufacturing clothes / garments bearing the trade / service mark / name

H&M/ / for the purpose of export since 1972; xiv) that plaintiff

no.2 was incorporated on 16th December, 2013 to formally and firmly

establish plaintiff no.1‟s presence in India; xv) that plaintiff no.2‟s foray into

the Indian market as a retailer was in the year October, 2015 when its first

store was launched in a very prominent mall in Saket, New Delhi; xvi) that

plaintiffs‟ product / service / business bearing the trade mark H&M/ /

 are extensively marketed and promoted in India with the result that

the said mark has achieved extensive recognition amongst members of trade

and customers; xvii) that the representatives of the plaintiff no.2 came across

the goods of the defendants bearing the mark „HM‟/ along with use

of and and on making enquiries it was learnt

that the defendants have registered a domain name comprising „HM‟ viz.

„hmmegabrands.com‟ and are operating website www.hmmegabrands.com

and offering products / goods / services similar to that of the plaintiffs under

the mark „HM‟/ through the said website; defendants were also IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 6 of 36 offering goods bearing the mark „HM‟/ through other online

shopping portals such as www.jabong.com, www.amazon.com,

www.myntra.com etc. and the defendants have retail stores in Mumbai and

various other cities in India; xviii) that the defendants have also incorporated

the alphabets „H‟ and „M‟ in their corporate name and have filed applications

seeking registration of the marks „HM‟/ / and

logo in Classes 16, 18, 25 and 35; xix) that the defendants, in

order to come close to plaintiffs‟ business, are also representing the

alphabets „H‟ and „M‟ in an informal and asymmetrical italicized manner

similar to that of the plaintiffs‟ artwork as well as is using the colour

combination of red and white identical to that of the plaintiffs‟; xx) that the

defendants are also found to be marketing their product under other brands

such as „Femme‟ and „Bonjour‟ which are popular French words showing

further intent to pass off their goods as those; xxi) that the cease and desist

notice got issued by the plaintiffs to the defendants resulted in the caveat in

this suit and in a suit in the High Court of Bombay to prevent the plaintiffs

from meting out the threats of infringement to the defendants; xxii) that the

defendants being in the same line of business as the plaintiffs, cannot deny IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 7 of 36 knowledge of the trade mark / name / artwork / of the

plaintiffs; xxiii) that the trade mark of the defendants is confusingly similar

to the registered trade mark of the plaintiffs; and, xxiv) that plaintiffs‟ trade

mark is a well known trade mark and entitled to receive the highest level of

protection. 4. The defendants have contested the suit by filing written statement

pleading i) that in or about 2011, defendant no.4 Mr. Hashim Merchant

started his proprietorship concern „HM Enterprise‟ utilizing the first two

alphabets of his name „Hashim Merchant‟, to carry on business of selling /

trading of various Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) on commission

basis; ii) that in 2011, „H&M‟ had no recognition in India; iii) that later on as

business grew, in or about May, 2012 the defendant no.4 Mr. Hashim

Merchant along with his brother defendant no.3 Mr. Hamza Merchant,

considering the initials of both of them, honestly and bona fidely conceived

and adopted the trade marks „HM MEGABRANDS‟ ,

 to carry on business inter alia in relation to manufacture, IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 8 of 36 distribution and trading of various kinds of footwears, leather bags, designer

bags, belt, clutches, readymade garments, imitation jewellery and other

accessories; iv) that the defendant no.1 HM Megabrands Pvt. Ltd. was

incorporated in September, 2012 and made applications for registration of

the trade marks „HM MEGABRANDS‟ in Classes 16,18,25 and 35 and of

„.HM. MEGABRANDS‟ in Class 25 and which applications

are pending registration; v) that „HM‟ has always been an integral part of

defendants, their sister concern‟s business, corporate name / trade name,

trading style and trade mark since the year 2011; vi) that this Court does not

have territorial jurisdiction to entertain the suit as the defendants have no

stores in Delhi and the suit has been instituted in this Court with mala fide

intention; vii) that the present suit is liable to be stayed owing to the

pendency of previously instituted suit filed by the defendant no.1 against the

plaintiff at Bombay; viii) that no person can claim exclusive rights to the

acronym / two letter mark „HM‟ or „H & M‟ or ; ix) that the

alphabets „H‟ and „M‟ do not have any trade mark significance; x) that a

search of the online records of the Trade Marks Registry or Registrar of

Companies shows the alphabets „H‟ and „M‟ and / or the term „HM‟ is used IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 9 of 36 by several manufacturers / companies including as their trade name, trading

style and trade mark; xi) that the mark „H&M‟ being a two letter mark is not

registrable under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and is inherently not distinctive

or capable of distinguishing the goods / services of the plaintiffs from those

of others; xii) that the plaintiffs have not used the mark in India for five years

from the date of registration and the question of the same having acquired

any distinctiveness does not arise; xiii) that the plaintiffs‟ mark is not similar

to the defendants‟ and there is no scope of confusion or deception; xiv) that

the defendants have challenged the validity of the plaintiffs‟ registration; xv)

that the defendants have independently and honestly conceived and adopted

the trade marks comprising of „H‟ and „M‟ and have been continuously,

extensively and uninterruptedly using the same since the year 2012; xvi) that

the trade mark of the defendant no.1 has been derived from the initials of

defendants no.3 and 4; and, xvii) that the plaintiffs are not entitled to any

relief on the ground of laches, acquiescence and waiver. 5. No replication is found to have been filed by the plaintiffs. Rather

both counsels, upon the conclusion of hearing stated that the proceedings in

the suit, after disposal of the application for interim relief, are liable to be

stayed under Section 124 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 10 of 36 6. Though the senior counsels addressed extensive oral arguments as

well but having filed written submissions also, need to record the oral

arguments is not felt and summary is given hereunder of the written

submissions besides the pleadings recorded above. 7. Written submissions on behalf of the senior counsel for the plaintiffs: commerce website www.hmmegabrands.com all over the

 country; the defendants are also carrying on business in Delhi

 and selling products in Delhi through online portals like

 www.jabong.com, www.myntra.com and www.amazon.com

 and thus the objection to the territorial jurisdiction is

 misconceived; reliance is placed on Banyan Tree Holding (P)

 Ltd. Vs. A. Murali Krishna Reddy 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780

 (DB) and World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc. Vs. Reshma

 Collection 2014 SCC OnLine Del 2031 (DB). ii) that Section 10 of the CPC does not bar passing of interlocutory

 order and identification of the matter in issue is the determining IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 11 of 36 test; reliance is placed on Indian Bank Vs. Maharashtra State

 Cooperative Marketing Federation Ltd. ( 1998) 5 SCC 69 and

 Arjies Aluminium Udyog Vs. Sudhir Batra, New Delhi AIR

 1997 Del 232 (DB). iii) that though the plaintiffs opened their first store in India in 2015

 but have been manufacturing clothes, garments bearing the

 trade / service mark / name H&M/ / in India for

 the purpose of export since 1972. iv) that per Section 56 of the Trade Marks Act, use of trade marks

 in respect of export outside India constitutes use of trade mark

 in India; well aware of the reputation and goodwill vesting in the mark

 H&M/ / on account of media, television, IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 12 of 36 newspaper etc.; reliance is placed on Milmet Oftho Industries

 Vs. Allergan Inc. (2004) 12 SCC 624. vii) that on account of extensive use and promotion, a secondary

 meaning stands attached in respect of the mark / name / artwork

 H&M/ / and the same is exclusively associated by

 members of the trade and public with plaintiffs and plaintiffs

 products; reliance is placed on B.K. Engineering Company Vs.

 Ubhi Enterprises 1986 ( 6) PTC 291 (Del), Larsen & Toubro

 Ltd. Vs. Lachmi Narain Traders (2008) 149 DLT 46 (DB) and

 Laxmikant V. Patel Vs. Chetanbhai Shah (2002) 3 SCC 65. viii) that the defendants having applied for registration of the marks

 and , cannot contend the marks

 H&M/ / to be non-distinctive; Megabrands is

 descriptive of the service of the defendants and in effect the

 mark of which registration is applied is „HM‟; the defendants

 having tried to claim exclusivity over the letters „H‟ and „M‟

 cannot contend the same to be non-distinctive; reliance is placed

 on Automatic Electric Ltd. Vs. P.K. Dhawan ( 1999) 77 DLT IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 13 of 36 292 and Procter & Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

 Vs. Anchor Health & Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. (2014) 211 DLT

 466 (DB). ix) that the stay of suit under Section 124(5) of the Trade Marks

 Act does not preclude the Court from making interlocutory

 orders; x) that it is only in exceptional circumstances such as the

 registration being ex facie illegal, fraudulent and which shocks

 the conscience of the Court that the Court will refuse the interim

 injunction in favour of registered proprietor of the trade mark;

 reliance is placed on Lupin Limited Vs. Johnson & Johnson AIR 2015 Bom 50 (FB). xi) that use by third parties cannot be a defence; reliance is placed

 on Prakash Roadline Ltd. Vs. Prakash Parcel Service (P) Ltd. ( 1992) 48 DLT 390 and Pankaj Goel Vs. Dabur India Ltd . MANU/DE/2271/2008 (DB). 8. Written submissions of the senior counsel for the defendants: 9. I have considered the rival contentions. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 17 of 36 10. The objection in the written statement to the territorial jurisdiction of

this Court to entertain the suit, on the plea of the defendants not having any

stores in Delhi, not only has not been pressed in the written submissions,

though generally taken during the course of arguments but on the admission

of the defendants, of the defendants having generated revenue over Rs.12

crores in the financial year 2015-2016 including through extensive online

sales through websites, nullifies the said objection. As long as the effect of

the infringement or passing off, if any by the defendants of the trade mark of

the plaintiffs and/or of the goods of the defendants as the goods of the

plaintiffs can be felt in Delhi, this Court would have cause of action to

entertain the suit. Even under Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, though

as per the dicta of Division Bench of this Court in P.K. Sen Vs. Exxon

Mobile Corporation (2017) 236 DLT 333 (DB), this Court would have no

territorial jurisdiction but I have subsequently in Zenner International

GMBH & Co. KG Vs. Anand Zenner Company Pvt. Ltd. 2018 SCC OnLine

Del 7011 given reasons as to why the said judgment needs reconsideration. 11. Similarly, the challenge made by the defendants to the validity of the

plaintiffs‟ registration does not come in the way of consideration of the

application for interim relief. I have in Clinique Laboratories LLC Vs. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 18 of 36 Gufic Limited 2009 SCC OnLine Delhi 751 dealt with the said aspect (and

which has not been interfered in appeal, though on merits setting aside the

said judgment ) and the need to reiterate the same herein is not felt. 12. Yet another objection of the defendants, of the proceedings in the

present suit being liable to be stayed on account of pendency of the

previously instituted suit filed by the defendant No.1 against the plaintiff at

Bombay, also has no merit. The said suit is stated to be to prevent the

plaintiffs from meting out threats of infringement to the defendants i.e. under Section 142 of the Trade Marks Act and per Section 142(2) would not lie,

once the plaintiffs have commenced and/or are prosecuting this suit for

infringement of their trade mark. Even otherwise, a suit for infringement is a

substantial suit in which claims of both parties can be adjudicated and the

adjudication of claims of plaintiffs cannot be kept pending decision of a suit

under Section 142 . 13. That brings me to the meat of the controversy qua which the following

questions arise: Needless to say, only for the purpose of consideration of

 application for interim relief. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 20 of 36 14. Qua question (VI) above, this Court in Express Bottlers Services Pvt.

Ltd. Vs. Pepsico Inc. 1989 ( 9) PTC 14 and Century Traders Vs. Roshan Lal

Duggar & Co. AIR 1978 Delhi 250 (DB), besides in Prakash Roadline Ltd.

and Pankaj Goel supra cited by the plaintiffs, held that mere presence of

mark in register (or of a name on the records of Registrar of Companies)

does not prove use and a proprietor of a trade mark is not expected to pursue

each and every insignificant infringer. It thus follows that use, even if any by

others of the alphabets „HM‟ or „H&M‟ as part of their trade mark/ trade

name, cannot deprive the plaintiffs, if otherwise found entitled to interim

injunction against the defendants of such injunction. Reference may also be

made to P.M. Diesels Vs. S. M. Diesels AIR 1994 Delhi 264 holding that in

a suit for infringement, it is the right of the two parties before the Court only

which are to be examined and not qua others. 15. The plea of the defendants, of the plaintiffs, at the time of seeking

registration and when confronted with „HMT‟, „HMV‟, „HMW‟, „H.M. Tex

Kamal‟ and „H.M.C.‟, having taken a stand that the mark has to be

considered in entirety, may be considered at this stage. The question to be

adjudicated is, whether the plaintiffs, having taken such a stand, is estopped

from suing for infringement. The question, in my opinion, cannot be IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 21 of 36 answered in abstract and has to be answered on facts. None of the

businesses, marks whereof as aforesaid the plaintiffs were confronted with,

were in any business even remotely connected to business of the plaintiffs. In

fact the marks HMT & HMV were abbreviations of their earlier names

Hindustan Machine Tools and His Masters Voice respectively and which

businesses, over the years had come to be referred by their abbreviation.

Merely because the plaintiffs at the stage of seeking registration took a stand

as aforesaid, cannot stop the plaintiff from exercising its statutory and

natural rights. There is no estoppel against statute. 16. I will take up the other questions together. At the outset, I may state

that the names of the defendants No.3&4 are Hashim Merchant and Hamza

Merchant. The defendants however did not choose to set up or carry on

business in their own names but claim to have chosen the first alphabets of

their name and surname as mark under which they set up business. It is also

not as if the defendants initially set up business under their full names of

Hashim and/or Hamza Merchant and which businesses over a period of time

came to be known as „HM‟. On the contrary, it is the plea of the defendants

themselves that defendant No.4 Hashim Merchant in the year 2011 started

his proprietorship concern „HM Enterprises‟ using the first two alphabets of IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 22 of 36 his name to carry on business. The defendants having done so, cannot claim

that those transacting business with the defendant No.1 HM Megabrands Pvt.

Ltd. or with the brand/mark „HM Megabrands‟ would know that they are

transacting business with Hashim Merchant and / or Hamza Merchant. The

adoption could have been said to be bona fide if to attract customers by

disclosing the identity of the proprietor who was well known to the

customers or commanded a goodwill, unless adoption of name itself in

childhood was mala fide. Even otherwise, Supreme Court in Laxmikant V.

Patel supra cited by the plaintiffs, dealing with such a plea held that law

does not permit anyone to carry on his business in such a way as would

persuade the customers or clients in believing that the goods or services

belonging to someone else are his or are associated therewith and that it does

not matter whether the latter person does so fraudulently or otherwise. It

was reasoned that honesty and fair play are, and ought to be, the basic policy

in the world of business and that when a person adopts or intends to adopt a

name in connection with his business or services which already belongs to

someone else, it results in confusion and has propensity of diverting the

customers and clients of someone else to himself and thereby resulting in

injury. Reliance was placed on Kerly on the Law of Trade Marks and Trade IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 23 of 36 Names (12th Edn) opining that fraud is not a necessary element of the right of

action and the absence of an intention to deceive is not a defence, though

proof of fraudulent intention may materially assist a plaintiff in establishing

probability of deception. Reliance was also placed on Christopher Wadlow

in Law of Passing Off (1995 Edition) opining that the defendant‟s state of

mind is wholly irrelevant to the existence of the cause of action for passing

off. It was thus held that where a defendant is found to have imitated or

adopted the plaintiff‟s distinctive trade mark or business name, injunction

has to follow. Mention may also be made of Mahendra & Mahendra Paper

Mills Ltd. Vs. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (2002) 2 SCC 147 holding that

since the plaintiff in that case had been using the word "Mahindra" and

"Mahindra & Mahindra" for its business/business concerns for a long span of

time and since the name had acquired a distinctiveness and a secondary

meaning in the business or trade circles and people had come to associate the

name "Mahindra" with the plaintiff, the attempt by the defendant in that case to use the name and business in trade circles was likely to create an

impression of a connection of the defendant with the plaintiff and was likely

to prejudicially affect the plaintiff. Accordingly, inspite of the surname of

the defendant also being "Mahendra", the defendant was restrained from IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 24 of 36 using the same. Reference in this context may also be made to Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. Vs. Reddy Pharmaceuticals Limited 2004 (29) PTC 435

Delhi. 17. Before proceeding further, the crux of the matter i.e. similarity and

likelihood of deception between the two marks may be dealt with at this

stage. The main argument of the senior counsel for the defendants in this

regard was that though the alphabets „H‟ and „M‟ in the two marks are the

same, the addition of the word "Megabrands" distinguishes the mark of the

defendants from that of the plaintiffs. The need to cite any authorities on the

said aspect is not felt, inasmuch as no broad statement can be made, whether

the addition of a prefix or suffix always creates distinctiveness or never

creates distinctiveness. It depends upon the nature of the prefix and suffix

and the nature of the business carried on under the mark as well as on a host

of other factors. Mention may only be made of Ahmed Oomerbhoy Vs.

Gautam Tank (2008) 146 DLT 774 where the defendant added prefix

„Super‟ to the trade mark „Postman‟ of plaintiffs. It was held that considering

the fact that the goods to which the defendant applied the mark were the

same as under mark of plaintiffs and the trade areas were same and colour IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 25 of 36 combination of two marks was the same / similar and the shape of container

was same / similar, addition of prefix „Super‟ was immaterial. 18. The business of the plaintiffs herein under their mark „H&M‟ is of

manufacturing and marketing fashionable clothing collection and ancillary

products / services for women, men, teenagers and children, with the

plaintiffs having stores / outlets under the mark. The business of the

defendants is also of manufacture, marketing, supplying and selling garments

and ancillary products including through its own stores / outlets under the

impugned mark. The business of the two is thus the same and/or alike and

the trade circles and patrons / customers of the two are also the same. 19. „Brand‟ is a name given to a product and/or service such that it takes

on an identity by itself. „Mega‟ means very big or huge or excellent. Thus,

the word „Megabrands‟ would mean a brand which is very big or huge or

which is excellent. Thus, the addition of suffix „Megabrands‟ to the

alphabets „HM‟, which are the same as in the mark of the plaintiffs, only

connotes that „HM‟ is a megabrand. 20. The defendants, in their written statement claim to have christened

themselves „HM Megabrands‟ from the very inception of their business in

the year 2011 / 2012 i.e. the defendants stepped into the market by claiming IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 26 of 36 their brand to be a megabrand. It is significant that the word „Megabrands‟

is a descriptive and a generic word and is used generally to describe any big

or successful brand and use of the word „Megabrand‟ cannot be associated

only with the defendants. The only inference from the defendants launching

themselves in the market under the name „HM Megabrands‟ is that the

defendants from inception of their business portrayed their brand to be a

megabrand. The brand of the defendants was none other than „HM‟.

However the said brand, on the date of launch, could not be a megabrand.

Now applying the test, as to how a purchaser with an average mind of

ordinary intelligence will look upon or react to the mark of the defendants

and what association he will form by looking at it and in what respect he

would connect the mark to the goods he was purchasing, the only answer is

that a purchaser familiar with the plaintiffs and their brand H&M, seeing the

brand HM of the defendants and seeing it described as a megabrand, is likely

to associate the goods of the defendants as those of the plaintiffs. It is not

disputed by the defendants that the plaintiffs were in the market from at least

over two decades prior to the defendants coming into the market. Anyone

familiar with the mark „H&M‟ of the plaintiffs on seeing the mark „HM

Megabrands‟ thus is unlikely to differentiate the defendants from the IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 27 of 36 plaintiffs. The suffix „Megabrands‟ to the alphabets „HM‟, rather than

distinguishing, reinforces the impression in the mind of the consumer that

the business of the defendants is the business of the plaintiffs which vis-a-vis

the defendants at least was a megabrand on the date when the defendants

commenced business. 21. The only other distinguishing feature is the symbol „&‟ between the

alphabets „H&M‟ in the mark of the plaintiffs and which is absent in the use

of the same alphabets by the defendants. Not only is the symbol „&‟ in the

mark of the plaintiff written in a much smaller font than the font in which the

alphabets „H&M‟ are written but even otherwise a mere presence of the said

symbol, in my view, is unlikely to distinguish the said alphabets in the mark

of the plaintiffs and in the mark of the defendants. The patrons of the

plaintiffs as well as the defendants are only likely to remember and recollect

the alphabets „H&M‟ in the mark of the plaintiff and not the symbol „&‟

between the said two alphabets. 22. That brings me to exclusivity if any of H&M and / or HM and

registrability thereof. 23. A Division Bench of this Court in S.B.L. Limited Vs. The Himalaya

Drug Co. ILR 1997 (2) Delhi 168 was concerned with the question whether IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 28 of 36 „LIV-T‟ is deceptively similar with the mark „Liv.52‟. After discussing a

large number of judgments, it was held that though nobody can claim

exclusive right to use any word, abbreviation, or acronym which becomes

publici juris and the question whether such feature is publici juris or generic

is a question of fact but if the two trade marks by two competing traders use

a generic word or an expression publici juris common to both the trade

marks, it has to be seen if the customers who purchase the goods would be

guided by the use of such word / expression or would ignore it and give

emphasis to prefixes or suffixes or words used in association therewith. It

was further held that the primary question to be asked is, what would remain

in the memory of customers. On facts, however, it was held that the

defendant‟s trade mark was neither deceptive nor confusingly similar to the

plaintiff‟s trade mark for grant of injunction. Interestingly, though the suit,

post trial also was dismissed but the Division Bench of this Court in The

Himalaya Drug Company Vs. S.B.L. Limited 194 (2012) DLT 536 allowed

the appeal and held that if the word has attained distinctiveness as mark of a

particular party, the distinctiveness is entitled to recognition unless

distinctiveness is lost due to a volume of common user which destroys

distinctiveness. On facts, it was found that LIV-52 was distinctive and not a IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 29 of 36 generic word common to the trade. It was further held that if the presence of

the word „LIV‟ is considered for the purposes of deceptive resemblance, the

mere existence of „52‟ or „T‟ was inconsequential for the purposes of

arriving at the finding as to infringement. 24. „H&M‟ or „HM‟ however are not generic or publici juris to the trade

or business for which they are being used by the plaintiffs and the

defendants. The said alphabets are alien to the trade / business of clothing /

garments / accessories and were applied thereto by the plaintiffs, admittedly

much prior to the defendants, merely on account of being first alphabets of

the originators of business of the plaintiffs. As distinct therefrom, LIV 52 &

LIV-T were at interim stage found being used for medicinal preparations for

treatment of Liver and were thus held to be generic and / or publici juris.

That is not so here. A word, even if generic, if applied to a business with

which the word is unrelated, is indeed to be protected. Merely because it is

alphabets or acronym, is immaterial. Moreover, this Court has to be wiser

from the experience of LIV-52 case aforesaid, where ultimately injunction

sought against use of „LIV-T‟ was granted. It is not even the case of the

defendants that „H‟ and „M‟ or „HM‟ are generic to the trade in which the

plaintiffs and defendants are. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 30 of 36 25. Supreme Court, also in Laxmikant V. Patel supra, held that a mark

includes amongst other things a name or a word also and name would

include any abbreviation of a name. 26. Mention may also be made of NRB Bearings Ltd. Vs. Windsor

Export 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1672 where the trade mark of the plaintiff

was NRB and the defendant had created the domain name nrbearing.com.

Relying on the principle that a person is not entitled to carry on his business

in a dishonest manner, an injunction followed. 27. Yet another Judge of this Court in KSB Aktiengesellschaft Vs. KSB

Global Limited 2011 (45) PTC 103(Del) was concerned with a claim for

injunction of use of the mark „KSB‟. It was held that the defendant could

not be permitted to use the mark „KSB‟ as it created confusion in the mind of

the trading community and customers. RFA (OS) 107/2010 preferred

thereagainst was dismissed. 28. Protection by the Division Bench was also granted in DPS World

Foundation Vs. Delhi Public School Society 2017 SCC OnLine Del 7794 of

the mark „DPS‟ in relation to schools. 29. I will next take up the plea of the defendants, of the plaintiffs having

not used the mark in India for five years from the date of registration and of IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 31 of 36 the plaintiffs having not acquired any distinctiveness in India and/or of the

plaintiffs having no reputation in India. 30. I have in Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Vs. Cipla Limited 2009 (39) PTC 347, relying inter alia on Americal Home Products

Corporation Vs. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. AIR 1986 SC 137 held, that a

defendant in a suit for infringement, without seeking remedies under Section

47 of the Trade Marks Act before the Registrar of Trademarks, cannot set up

pleas of non-use and the same if permitted, will undermine the efficacy of

registration and the presumption of validity of registration under Section 31 of the Act and an action for infringement of trade mark cannot be defeated

for disuse. In Ahmed Oomerbhoy supra also, it was held that whether the

mark has not been used is to be adjudicated and the defendant on its own

cannot decide that the mark has not been used by the plaintiff and the

defendant is thus entitled to use the same. It was further held that even

pendency of rectification petition was immaterial and the defendant, in the

same business was deemed to be aware of mark of the plaintiff. 31. The present admittedly is not a case of non-use of the mark. The plea

of the defendants also is only of the plaintiffs having no sales in India and

which the defendants also admit the plaintiffs have since 2015 i.e. since prior IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 32 of 36 to the institution of the present suit. It is the plea of the plaintiffs that the

plaintiffs were having their goods under the subject mark

fabricated/manufactured in India and / or procuring their goods from India

and exporting them for sale outside India. The senior counsel for the

plaintiffs has already, as aforesaid, invoked Section 56 . 32. The opening up of the Indian Economy in the year 1991and the

increased travels of Indians outside the country and the increased interaction

of Indians with foreigners has changed the dynamics of reputation and

goodwill. For a mark/brand to have a reputation or goodwill in India, setting

up a shop in India or sale in India is no longer a necessity. The introduction

of web based sales which enables Indians to shop for whatever brands/goods

available wheresoever, has further increased the familiarity in India with the

marks and brands essentially sold/marketed outside. Supreme Court

comparative recently in Neon Laboratories Limited Vs. Medical

Technologies Limited (2016) 2 SCC 672 reiterated that "first in the market

test" has always enjoyed pre-eminence and referred to N.R. Dongre Vs.

Whirlpool Corpn. ( 1996) 5 SCC 714 and Milmet Oftho Industries supra to

hold that worldwide prior user is given preference nay predominance over

the registered trade mark in India. It was reasoned that as the world shrinks IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 33 of 36 almost to a global village, the relevance of the transnational nature of a trade

mark will progressively diminish into insignificance and the attainment of

valuable goodwill will have ever increasing importance. This Court in Cadbury Uk Ltd. Vs. Lotte India Corporation Ltd. 2014 SCC OnLine Del

367 has again held that for the purpose of establishing reputation, visibility

in India of webpages displaying the product is sufficient to show that buyers

or Indians travelling abroad are aware of the product and are likely to

associate it with plaintiffs. 33. It is not in dispute here that the plaintiffs are the prior user and thus at

this stage, the argument of the plaintiffs being not entitled to injunction for

the reason of having no sales in India prior to 2015 will not enure to the

benefit of the defendants. 34. I am therefore of the opinion that the plaintiffs have a prima facie

case. The defendants, though have commenced their business in the year

2011 but if permitted to continue their business during the pendency of the

suit, are likely to develope further goodwill / mark under the impugned mark

and once a prima facie case is found in favour of the plaintiffs, it is not

deemed appropriate to allow the defendants to gather further goodwill and

business in the mark. The injury and loss to the plaintiffs, if the defendants IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 34 of 36 during the pendency of the suit are permitted to continue using the mark, is

implicit and no order of keeping an account can compensate the plaintiff

sufficiently. It is also quite evident that owing to the pendency of the

proceedings initiated by the defendants for cancellation of the mark of the

plaintiff, the proceedings in the present suit have to be stayed and thus the

disposal of the suit also cannot be expedited. Rather, I am of the view that in

the aforesaid facts and circumstances, no trial even is required in the present

suit and the suit itself can be disposed of on the basis of material on record.

However, since the parties did not consent thereto and both the counsels

agreed that the proceedings in the suit have to be stayed, the said course of

action is not open. 35. The plaintiff is thus found entitled to an order of interim injunction as

claimed. 36. There has been an unusual delay in pronouncing this order. I have

wondered whether owing thereto I should refrain from now passing an

interim order. However, on deliberation, I am of the opinion that once the

plaintiff is found entitled to the interim relief, owing to my delay, the

plaintiff should not be deprived therefrom. It is also not as if in the

interregnum, any rights have accrued to the defendants. IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 35 of 36 37. However, since the summer vacation of this Court is on the anvil and

to give time to the defendants to stop use of the impugned mark and

commence business under an alternative mark, it is deemed appropriate to

make the order of interim injunction operative with effect from 9 th July,

2018. 38. IA No.7259/2016 of the plaintiffs is thus allowed. 39. The defendants, with effect from 9th July, 2018, are restrained from

using in any manner whatsoever the trade / service mark / trade name

„HM/ / / or any deceptive variation/s

thereof, singularly or in conjunction with any other word or monogram/logo

or label in relation to their products/services/business whether as a trade

mark, service mark, trade name, corporate name, trading style or as website,

domain name and e-mail address. 40. In accordance with the aforesaid, the proceedings in the suit are

adjourned sine die with liberty to the parties to apply for revival as and when

need arises. RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J
MAY 31, 2018
„gsr/bs‟ IA No.7259/2016 in CS(COMM) No.707/2016 Page 36 of 36