1. This appeal has been filed against the Order-in-Appeal No. 119/2006-S.T., dated 31-5-2006 passed by the Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise (Appeals) Cochin. 2. The appellants are engaged in the services of Clearing and Forwarding Agent to M/s. Bell Ceramics Ltd., Gujarat. Besides the Commission for the services rendered to the principals, they received reimbursement of various expenses such as rent, loading and unloading, postage and telegraph, printing and stationary, telephone charges, sundry expenses etc. incurred by them for and on behalf of their principals. The Assistant Commissioner in his Order-in-Original dated 16-2-2006 demanded the service tax on the gross amount charged from the client for the services rendered, which includes the amount received as reimbursement for the period from 1-4-2001 to 30-9-2004 with interest. The appellants challenged the order before the Commissioner (Appeals). They relied on various case laws. However, the Commissioner (Appeals) upheld the Order-in-Original. 3. The appellants have filed a written submission and urged the following points: 4. In the present case it can be seen from the above table, a show cause notice was issued beyond the latest date, before which the same should not been caused. There is also no reason for invoking the extended period as no finding has been recorded that the allowed short-levy was on account of fraud or collusion, wilful misstatement suppression of facts. 5. The learned Departmental Representative Shri Anil Kumar, reiterated the impugned order. 6. On a very careful consideration of the issue, find that these reimbursements are on account of Rent, Loading/Unloading, Packing/Repacking, Freight/Cartages, Octroi/Taxes, Other Expenses on actual like Telephone/Courier/Photocopying/Printed Stationery. The actual service charges received by the appellant is also mentioned in the contract. It is actually Rs. 2 per M2 up to 8000 M2 per month or Rs. 16,000/- whichever is higher. There are also further slabs. The contention of the appellant is that they are liable to pay service tax only for the charges received in respect of the services and not on the reimbursements. Rs. 12,000/- per month is the rent for the godown which is reimbursed by the principal. According to the appellant this amount does not represent the charges received for rendering services to their principals. There is no justification for levying service tax on this amount. Similarly, in respect of other reimbursements, the Commissioner (Appeals) held that the gross amount received is liable to service tax which includes all the reimbursements find that the case laws cited by the appellant have held that the reimbursements of actual expenses incurred on behalf of the appellants are not liable to service tax. Following the ratio of the cited case laws, I allow the appeal with consequential relief. (Pronounced in open Court on 7-1-2008)