“Unlike other technologies such as AI, machine learning, etc., blockchain is a social and human behaviour marvel,” Ajeet Khurana, the CEO of Zebpay, said to highlight how blockchain and Bitcoin should be understood.

MediaNama conducted a boot camp on understanding cryptocurrencies, supported by Zebpay, in New Delhi on August 23. Khurana gave a lowdown on the different aspects of Bitcoin — the token, the network, and the software.

Bitcoin has three meanings:

Bitcoin costs about ₹7.3 lakh today. However, it is possible to buy a very small fraction of it — one hundred millionth of it. “That means, you can buy a part of Bitcoin for less than 1 rupee,” Khurana said, “though in reality, your transaction fee will be greater than the money you are putting.”

As a result, there is a layer-2 technology, built on top of a blockchain-based cryptocurrency, called Lightning Network that allows you to break a Bitcoin into a 100 million parts. “Just as you have a rupee and a paisa, you have a Bitcoin and a Satoshi,” Kharana said.

1 rupee = 100 paise 1 Bitcoin = 100,000,000 Satoshi

A Satoshi “can be broken further upto 3 decimal places, and eventually more, on the Lightning Network when it has to be used for [micro]payments,” Khurana said.

“Mining is a very bad term because it means the Bitcoin is gold, that’s why it has to be mined. But, it is basically a software activity that involves solving a complex cryptographic problem.” — Ajeet Khurana

As a result, “we have started giving an extremely high incentive to the token”, just as children covet the free gift with a McDonald’s Happy Meal more than the meal itself, Khurana explained with an analogy. “Because this extraordinary influence has been attributed to that token, we are not looking at the fact that there’s a food industry, there’s a restaurant industry, there’s a specific restaurant called McDonald’s, there’s a whole menu, we are only focusing on that [free gift/token],” Khurana said.

Khurana gave the example of the site, Proof of Existence , which uses Bitcoin “at the point of issuance of a digital asset, such as a song or a movie or a degree certificate or a land record or any of those” to explain how Bitcoin can be used to create official, tamper-proof, public records: “I can write the digital representation of this degree certificate on the Bitcoin blockchain. Unlike exchanges and people’s digital wallets, Bitcoin has never been hacked. Now tomorrow, if the university or any other issuer of digital asset to me dies, … If I had written it on the Bitcoin blockchain, the verifying authority can say say, ‘Show me your degree certificate. I can take its digital representation, go back to that date and every transaction on the Blockchain is timestamped.’ I can go to the exact second at which this transaction was made 30 years ago and check if this digital representation was issued and if it this certificate is genuine — even if the issuer says I didn’t issue it, even if the issuer is not to be found, even if you don’t know whether such assets existed at that point of time. So, this is Proof of Existence. This can be done on the Bitcoin network.”

Khurana raised five questions around blockchain and cryptocurrency that most affect the regulatory and perceptual landscape :

“It costs ₹300 crore to get your NEFT payment to me because these banks, all three players are paying 100, 100 crore rupees, Blockchain will cost at least ₹3,000 crore.” — Ajeet Khurana

ONE: Everybody can create their own cryptocurrency. “Today, I could say, ‘You know what, this is my currency. This is called Ajeet’s coin. This is worth 1 lakh rupees’.”

but … For the currency to have any value, a certain number of people have to adopt it. Thus, the problem is not that people can print their own notes.

TWO: Tulip mania driven by greed and fear. People start behaving irrationally as they are too afraid to miss the bus. In that scenario, it is easy to dupe people and tell them, as Khurana explained, “You know what? Bitcoin costs like ₹7 lakh, what nonsense are you saying? You will buy it for ₹7 lakh? Instead, you know, I have this coin, let’s call it Shitcoin, right? This costs only ₹7 and this is exactly the same. Same blockchain, everything is the same.”

Power of Bitcoin: “The only thing intrinsically true about Bitcoin which [makes it] a magnet for scam is that it is such a powerful thing that these leeches and parasites around it come and start selling their own versions of it which are obviously nonsensical and people, [for the fear of missing out on a lucrative deal, fall prey to it]”. — Ajeet Khurana

“Value, mining, value and using that word value to mean price. They are totally unrelated … not totally unrelated, but they are two very separate things. Market price and the value of Bitcoin such as you know how much money does it take to mine the Bitcoin and those kind of things. These are fairly different things, price is a function of market, whether you make a profit or loss is your problem. Value is societal at an economic level and you know affects us,” Khurana said.

***Update (September 10 9:28 am): The headline was updated.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event