The Deputy Superintendent of Police, CBI/ACB Bengaluru

has filed a charge sheet against the above accused No.1 to

3 for the offences punishable under Sec. 120B , 420 of IPC

and Sec. 13(2) r/w 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption

Act, 1988 . 2. The brief facts of the prosecution case are that: - 3 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

United States of America, New York. In the said export

contract, State Trading Corporation of India was termed as

the "seller", and M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports

Pvt. Ltd., was the "shipper". (b) On 23.3.2000, Sri. N. Jeyakumar, the then

Branch Manager of State Trading Corporation of India Ltd.,

New York, USA had sent a fax message to the State

Trading Corporation of India, Chennai, Bengaluru and

Cochin Branches, regarding a trade enquiry for export of

40 FCLs (720 metric tones) of Indian Arabica Cherry Bulk

Clean Coffee to the USA, to the buyer M/s. Coffee America

of New York. (c) In pursuance of the fax message dated

23.3.2000 of Shri N. Jeyakumar, STC, New York, Chennai

Branch conveyed confirmation for the export of 15 FCLs,

and STC Bengaluru Branch conveyed confirmation for the

export of 25 FCLs of coffee. Whereas, STC, Chennai

Branch arranged for the export of the coffee, through

established coffee exporters, arranged by an accredited

broker in the field. In respect of STC, Bengaluru, Accused

No.1, being the Branch Manager and Head of Coffee

Division in the branch, awarded the export of coffee
 4 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

contract to M/s Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

directly, without calling for any tenders and without

looking for any other well established exporters in the field

having market credibility. (d) In pursuance of the trade enquiry dated

23.3.2000, Accused No.1 had directly contacted the

Shipper and on 24.3.2000, had entered into two back to

back contracts with the Shipper, for the export of 25 FCLs

of Indian Arabica Cherry Bulk Clean Coffee, to the U.S.A. (e) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha, during the period

from February, 1999 to March, 2000 had awarded 53

Coffee Export contracts to M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices

Exports (P) Ltd., out of 175 contracts entered into by the

State Trading Corporation of India, Bengaluru Branch. Out

of the 53 contracts, 26 contracts had either been washed

out or had some claims preferred by the buyers on the

seller. (f) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had allowed M/s.

Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., to do coffee

export, on behalf of a number of other exporters also with

whom the company was having tie-up arrangements. By

such tie-up arrangements, Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha,
 5 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

not only managed to award export contracts but also

helped M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices (Pvt.) Ltd.,

Bengaluru, in not suffering any loss of face in the market,

in case any claims were preferred by the buyers on

account of quality deviations. (g) The samples drawn from the first consignment,

which were exported by Accused No.2 & 3 was found to be

not conforming with the stipulated quality, sub-standard

and even then, Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had allowed

the Shipper who are Accused No.2 & 3 to export the first

consignment. (h) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had allowed Accused

No.2 & 3 to export the subsequent consignments of coffee

even without drawing samples especially when the sample

drawn from the first consignment was found to be sub-

standard in quality, due to which the buyer M/s Coffee

America had rejected the subsequent consignments.

Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha failed to take required steps

and measures to ensure the export of coffee, which was in

conformity with the prescribed standards. (i) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had received two fax

messages from STC, Frankfurt Branch, Germany on
 6 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

23.3.2000, regarding the rejection of the coffee exported

by M/s. Kaycee Coffee Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., to France.

Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha despite being warned by his

Deputy Marketing Manager, regarding the performance of

this exporter preferred to sign the agreements, P-6651 &

P-6652 with Accused No.2 and 3 on 24.3.2000. (j) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha on 3.3.2000, sent a

proposal to the Corporate Office, State Trading Corporation

of India Ltd., New Delhi, seeking the approval of the

competent authority, for entering into direct export tie-up

arrangements with M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports

Pvt. Ltd., for extending financial assistance to the

exporter. Though the competent authority at the

Corporate Office sought from Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha,

certain clarifications regarding the credit worthiness and

export performance of M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices

Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, for considering his proposal,

Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha did not respond to the queries

of the Corporate Office due to which the said proposal was

not acted upon. (k) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha while selecting M/s.

Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Bengaluru, for
 7 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

awarding the biggest coffee export order ever secured by

STC, Bengaluru Branch, had violated the instructions

contained in STC, Corporate Office, Circular dt. 19.8.1999,

by not insisting the exporter to furnish any Performance

Bank Guarantee. Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had also not

taken into consideration the various parameters stipulated

while selecting an export associate as laid down in the STC

Corporate Office Circular No.105 dt. 28.1.1994. Further,

Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha had extended favour to M/s.

Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., represented by

Accused No.2 & 3 by sending a proposal to the Corporate

Office of State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., New

Delhi, on 3.3.2000, for entering into a direct export tie-up

with the Shipper i.e., Accused No.2 & 3 and had also

recommended for extending financial assistance to them,

whereas, the Shipper did not qualify for the same.

Accused No.1 tried to show official favour to Accused No.2

& 3. (l) Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha was well aware that

M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

represented by Accused No.2 & 3 did not adhere to the

various parameters as laid down in Circular No.105 dt. 8 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

28.1.1994 of the Corporate Office of STC Ltd., and had

signed export contracts P-6651 and P-6652 with M/s.

Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., on 24.3.2000

in furtherance of conspiracy and with dishonest and

fraudulent intention. (m) The Coffee exported by Accused No.2 & 3 who

are Managing Director and Chairman respectively of M/s.

Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was rejected by

the American buyer, being sub-standard in quality and the

buyer accordingly, initiated arbitration proceedings against

the State Trading Corporation of India being the "seller" in

the exports contracts. (n) The sub-standard coffee exported by M/s Kaycee

Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt., Ltd., in the month of June,

2000 was rejected by the buyer M/s. Coffee America of the

U.S.A. who initiated arbitration proceedings against the

State Trading Corporation of India for breach of contract,

as the State Trading Corporation was the "seller" in the

export contracts and had penalized the Corporation for an

amount of US $ 2,65,000, which includes the invoice price

of the Coffee exported and freight charges towards the

settlement of the arbitration. The State Trading
 9 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

Corporation of India paid the said amount to the buyer,

settled the claim and thereby, suffered financial losses,

whereas, M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

represented by Accused No.2 & 3, had already received

the export proceeds from the buyer. (o) The Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha, after entering

into the exports contract with the shipper i.e., Accused

No.2 and 3 being the Managing Director and the Chairman

of M/s. Kaycee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., by

violating the laid down guidelines, in furtherance of

conspiracy, did not ensure that the exporters exported the

stipulated quality of coffee. As a result, M/s. Kaycee

Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., represented by accused

No.2 and 3 could get away by exporting sub-standard

quality of coffee and the exports proceeds thereof were

received by them promptly from the buyer. The buyer

rejected the coffee and arbitration proceedings were

initiated against STC., being the seller in contracts entered

into with them. Accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha did not

safeguard the interests of STC., and had favoured the

exporter M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

represented by Accused No.2 and 3 by allowing them to
 10 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

export sub-standard coffee for which STC., was penalized

by the buyer. (p) Accused No.2 and 3 were the Managing Director

and the Chairman of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports

Pvt. Ltd., during the relevant time and they dishonestly

and fraudulently, in pursuance of the criminal conspiracy

hatched among themselves, with Accused No.1 Dr. R.B.

Saha had exported sub-standard coffee, in breach of the

terms and conditions of the export contracts and had

thereby, cheated the State Trading Corporation of India,

Government of India to the tune of US $ 2,65,000 (Rs.1.25

Crores) and thereby, a great irreparable loss was caused

to the reputation of State Trading Corporation of India and

other Indian Exporters in Overseas markets. (q) The accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha, as a public

servant had showed undue official favours to the accused

No.2 and 3, who are Managing Director and Chairman

respectively of M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spice Exports Pvt.

Ltd., in helping them to export sub-standard coffee to the

buyer, by entering into two back-to-back contracts No.P-

6651 & P-6652 dtd. 24.03.2000 acting as 'seller', instead

of as an intermediary, by violating all laid down guidelines
 11 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 of the Corporation and thereby he had committed criminal

 mis-conduct as a public servant. (r) Sri. A.P. Singh, the then Superintendent of Police,

 CBI, ACB, Bengaluru on the basis of reliable information

 received in respect of criminal conspiracy of accused No.1

 to 3, causing financial loss to the tune of Rs.1.25 crore to

 the State Trading Corporation of India, a Govt. of India

 undertaking registered a case in RC 22(A)/2003 CBI,

 Bengaluru on 26.9.2003 under Section 120B , 420 IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act,

 1988 and submitted FIR to the court and entrusted the

 investigation of the case to Sri. Y. Hari Kumar who was

 Inspector of Police, CBI, and he took up investigation in

 the matter. (s) During the investigation, he collected the

 relevant documents pertaining to the contracts of this case

 from STC, examined the witnesses and recorded their

 statements. Then he concluded the investigation and filed

 a charge sheet against the accused No.1 to 3 before the

 court. 3. After filing the charge sheet, looking to the material

 forthcoming against the accused No.1 to 3, cognizance has
 12 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 been taken against all accused. Then in response to the

 service of summons, the accused No.1 and 3 appeared

 before the court and they were enlarged on bail and

 necessary police papers have been furnished to them. The

 presence of accused No.2 was not secured, therefore, the

 case against him came to be split up and separate case in

 Spl.C.C.No.73/2006 came to be registered. 4. The learned counsel for Accused No.1 submitted No

 Objections for framing the charge against accused No.1

 and learned counsel for Accused No.3 did not address any

 arguments before framing charge. Therefore, the court

 proceeded to frame charge against accused No.1 and 3. 5. Thereafter the charge against the accused No.1 and 3 was

 framed, contents of the charge were read over and

 explained to them in the language known to them and

 both of them pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 6. Thereafter accused No.2 approached the Hon'ble High

 Court in Criminal Petition No.5478/2009 and as per the

 order passed by the Hon'ble High Court dated 30.10.2009,

 he appeared before this court, he was enlarged on bail and

 necessary police papers have been furnished to him. 13 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 7. Then the charge against accused No.2 has been framed,

 after hearing the arguments before charge and explained

 the contents of the charge in the language known to him

 and he pleaded not guilty and claims to be tried.

 Thereafter, the case registered against accused No.2 has

 been merged with this case by the order dated 19.1.2010. 8. Then the prosecution has examined in all 23 witnesses as

 PWs.1 to 23, got exhibited Ex.P1 to P97 and closed its

 side. Then the statement of the accused No.1 to 3 as

 required under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., has been recorded,

 after explaining the incriminating circumstances appearing

 against them in the evidence of prosecution witnesses and

 they have denied all the incriminating circumstances

 appearing against them. 9. The Accused No.1 to 3 have not entered the defence

 evidence on their behalf but during the evidence of

 prosecution witnesses, they have got exhibited Ex.D1 to

 D48 in support of their defence. 14 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 10. Then I have heard the detail arguments advanced by

 learned Special Public Prosecutor for CBI and the learned

 defence counsel for the Accused No.1 to 3. 11. The Learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted his

 synopsis and citations. The learned defence counsel for

 accused No.1 submitted his detail notes of arguments on

 two occasion and learned counsel for accused No.2 and 3

 also submitted detail notes of arguments and citations. 12. The points that would arise for my consideration are: - Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,
 entered into a criminal conspiracy in respect of
 two back to back contracts P-6651 & 6652
 entered on 24.3.2000 for the export of 25
 Foreign Container Load (FCLs) (450 metric
 tons) of Indian Arabic Cherry bulk clean coffee
 to M/s. Coffee America, New York, United
 States of America, and thereby committed an
 offence? 2) Whether the prosecution further proves beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused No.1 to 3 during the relevant time, in furtherance of
 their criminal conspiracy, dishonestly and
 fraudulently exported sub-standard coffee, in
 breach of the terms and conditions of the
 export contracts and thereby cheated the State
 Trading Corporation of India, to the tune of US
 $ 2,65,000 (Rs.1.25 Crores) and also harmed
 to the reputation of State Trading Corporation
 15 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 of India and other Indian Exporters in
 Overseas Markets and thereby committed an
 offence? 3) Whether the prosecution further proves beyond
 all reasonable doubt that accused No.1 being a
 public servant while discharging his duty as a
 Branch Manager of STC, Bengaluru, by corrupt
 or illegal means, by abusing his position as a
 public servant, shown official favour to accused
 No.2 and 3 in respect of contract No.6651 &
 6652 and obtained for himself or for any other
 person, any valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage without any public interest and
 thereby committed an offence of criminal
 misconduct? 4) What order? 13. My findings on the above points are as follows: 14. POINT No.1 & 2: - Both these points have been taken up

 together for consideration and discussion to avoid the

 repetition of facts and evidence. 16 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 15. The main allegations of prosecution forthcoming against

 accused No.1 to 3 are: - Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt., Ltd., have

 entered into a criminal conspiracy in respect of

 contract No.6651 and 6652 for supply of coffee to

 M/s. Coffee America, New York, USA. (b) In furtherance of criminal conspiracy, accused No.2

 and 3 supplied sub-standard quality of coffee to the

 buyer and received the payment and cheated the

 STC., Bengaluru, a Govt. of India undertaking. (c) The accused No.1 being a public servant has

 committed criminal misconduct. 16. Looking to the defence of the accused No.1 to 3, it is an

 admitted fact that accused No.1 Dr. R.B. Saha was the

 Branch Manager of State Trading Corporation of India

 Ltd., Bengaluru Branch for the period from March 1996 to

 July 2002. It is further admitted that M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru is a private limited
 17 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

company registered under the Companies Act ,

represented by its Managing Director the accused No.2

and Chairman Accused No.3. It is further admitted that

M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was

registered with Coffee Board, Bengaluru as dealers/ FSQ

Exporters and allotted Registration No. 568 and Export

Code No.699 on 4.12.1997 for export of coffee to

Overseas Buyers. It is further admitted that Sri. N.

Jeyakumar (PW.16) who was the Branch Manager, State

Trading Corporation of India Ltd., New York, on 23.3.2000

had sent a fax message to State Trading Corporation of

India, Chennai, Bengaluru and Cochin branches regarding

a trade enquiry for supply of 40 FCLs (720 metric tons) of

Indian Arabica Cherry Bulk clean coffee to USA, to the

buyer M/s. Coffee America of New York. It is further

admitted that pursuant to the said offer contained in the

fax message, STC, Bengaluru Branch made enquiry with

M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and after

their acceptance of proposal to supply, conveyed the

acceptance of proposal for export of 25 FCLs of coffee and

after confirmation of buyer, the STC, Bengaluru awarded

the export contract to Accused No.2 and 3 of M/s. Kaycee
 18 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. It is further

 admitted that STC, Bengaluru entered into two back to

 back export contracts P-6651 & P-6652 on 24.3.2000 one

 with M/s. Coffee America, USA and another with M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru of

 accused No.2 and 3 for the export of 25 Foreign Container

 Load of Indian Arabica Cherry clean Coffee to M/s. Coffee

 America, New York of United States of America and in the

 said export contract, State Trading Corporation of India

 was named as "seller" and M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru was the "shipper"

 represented by accused No.2 and 3. 17. In support of its case, the prosecution has relied upon the

 oral and documentary evidence. In this regard, firstly the

 prosecution has adduced and relied upon the evidence of

 PW.1 Sri. N.K. Subramanya, Head Clerk in Coffee Board,

 Bengaluru. In his evidence, PW.1 has deposed that they

 have been maintaining the records regarding data of the

 exporters, their performance in exports and the

 complaints received against exporters. The exporter is

 required to make an application for registration for export

 of coffee with the coffee board, along with the application
 19 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

he is required to submit import and export code allotted

by the respective foreign trade department, photograph

and the photograph of any authorized person to carry on

business and such photographs are required to be

attested by the bankers of the applicant and applicant has

to sign the application and attest the signature of

authorized person and Coffee Board is competent to

register the applications of exporters and after the

registration, the exporter is required to make separate

application seeking permission as and when he proposes

to export coffee and in the application, the applicant is

required to mention the name of the notified purchaser

and the quality, type and grade proposed to be exported

and the coffee board would issue export permit and

certificate of origin. On issue of such permit and

certificate, the exporter has to submit proof of export of

coffee against the permit issued by the coffee board. At

the time of export, the customs department would put

their office seal in token of export of coffee in the permit

as well as in the certificate issued by the coffee board

mentioning the date of export. He has further stated that

if any complaint is received against the exporter regarding
 20 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

any malpractice or defect in the quality of coffee, the

exporter is informed about the complaint and after

receiving the reply from the exporter, the copy of the

reply would be sent to the complainant. Thereafter, the

coffee board would make sincere attempt to bring about

amicable settlement between the complainant and the

exporter and in case of failure of settlement, the parties

would normally approach the arbitrator. If the allegations

in the complaint are found to be true, the board has right

to cancel the registration of the exporter. The coffee

export data consists of name of the notified importer and

exporter, the quality of coffee exported, the type and

grade of coffee, the value of the coffee exported and the

name of the country to which it was exported and the

port. The coffee board at Bengaluru being a Central office

has full details of coffee production all over the country,

type and grade of coffee and such details are maintained

in their office for the purpose of statistics and requisite

information. The coffee board also maintains the list of

exporters registered with it and their track record and

such details are computerized 21and are readily available
 21 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 for a period of 5 years and the board can also retrieve

 records of more than 5 years in case of exigency. 18. Further, he has deposed that M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru was registered in Coffee

 Board on 4.12.1997 based on application dated

 27.11.1997 and were allotted registration No.568 and

 exporter code 699 and the registration details are

 furnished to the company by registered post dated

 4.12.1997 and the letter is Ex.P1 and as per Ex.P1, one

 Sri. K.C. Santosh and Sri. D. Manjunatha were authorized

 to transact business on behalf of the company. The coffee

 board also issued permit card as per Ex.P2 and the

 specimen signatures of K.C. Santosh and D. Manjunath

 are Ex.P2(a) and P2(b) and signature of Deputy Director

 of Coffee Board Ex.P2(c). In the course of investigation

 by CBI, he furnished the details of the export of coffee

 during the period from 1.4.1999 to 31.3.2000 as per

 Ex.P3 and entry pertaining to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru is Ex.P3(a). There were

 series of complaints against the accused No.2 and 3

 alleging that they exported items other than the declared

 one for getting permission. In that regard, State Trading
 22 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Corporation approached the Coffee Board with the

 complaint against accused No.2 and 3. On the basis of

 the complaint, the board intimated the same to accused

 No.2 and 3 and as there was no proper response from

 them, the board was constrained to cancel the registration

 during 2000. Accordingly, they cancelled the registration

 of accused No.2 and 3 in the year 2000. 19. Secondly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.2 Sri. Vijaya Kuradagi, Chief Manager,

 STC, Bengaluru. He has deposed that the State Trading

 Corporation is a public sector undertaking under the

 control of Ministry of Commerce, Govt. of India,

 established in the year 1956. Initially, the corporation

 was doing the work of imports and exports with East

 European countries. Subsequently after decanalization,

 the corporation has become regular trading company in

 view of relaxation of imports and exports business. The

 corporation is a facilitator between the buyer and seller.

 The corporate office is situated in New Delhi and it has

 branches all over India and mostly in the capital cities of

 the States. 23 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 20. He has further stated that the corporation used to have its

 officers in foreign countries like USA, Germany, Australia,

 Singapore etc., and now the branches in foreign countries

 are closed. The role of foreign branches was to identify

 the business potential in respective countries and send

 those respective potential to branches in India. The

 branches in India in turn used to contact associates of

 State Trading Corporation who could supply the offer of

 purchase. Once the deal was finalized, the corporation

 entered into agreement with the supplier in India in the

 standard format which is normally called as back to back

 contract. Back to back contract would indicate

 incorporation of terms and conditions stipulated by foreign

 buyer in the contract entered by corporation with the

 supplier of India and for the service rendered by the

 corporation, charges are collected in the form of trade

 margin or service charges from the supplier in India. The

 corporation was having two types of contracts, they are (i)

 back to back contract, (ii) direct contract. In back to back

 contract, the responsibility of supply of goods to be

 exported is on the part of supplier in India and in that

 contract, the role of the corporation is to act like a
 24 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 commission agent and in direct contract corporation will

 be directly dealing with foreign buyer and procure

 materials and take the responsibility of exporting the

 goods to the foreign buyer and the corporation would

 generally delegate its powers in respect of the duties. 21. Then he has deposed that all the branches of the

 corporation in the State are headed by Branch Managers

 and there are about 6 to 7 officers of various designations

 below Branch Manager in each branch and those officers

 are designated as Chief Manager, Deputy Manager, Asst.

 Manager and they look after marketing, finance and

 personnel sections and they report their work to the

 Branch Manager and the cadre of Branch Manager is

 equivalent to Deputy General Manager or General

 Manager of the Head Office. The branch office in

 Bengaluru was established in the year 1976 and

 Bengaluru Branch was headed by Branch Manager and

 below him, there were Asst. Manager, Deputy Manager

 and Manager working at the relevant time. Coffee was

 one of the items which STC was exporting and there was

 no import of coffee by STC. Accused No.1 was the Branch

 Manager of Bengaluru Branch in the year 1998 and
 25 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bengaluru Branch was having jurisdiction over entire

 Karnataka and coffee export was mainly done by

 Bengaluru, Chennai and Cochin branches and the

 branches were maintaining the list of exporters of coffee

 and the list was updated every year and selection of

 exporters was being made by assessing their performance

 and the coffee exporters have to get their names duly

 registered and required to obtain necessary permit for the

 purpose of export of coffee. 22. Then he has deposed about the documents Ex.P4 to P26.

 STC, Bengaluru filed a civil suit against M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru in O.S.No.

 15412/2001 before City Civil Court, Bengaluru for

 recovery of Rs.1,25,54,348/-, as they had paid

 compensation to Coffee America and the legal proceeding

 was instituted because of the fraud committed by accused

 No.1 to 3. 23. Thirdly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.3 Sri. P.B. Malde, Manager (Marketing),

 STC, Mumbai who was working as Asst. Manager, STC,

 Bengaluru from March 1998 to July 2001. He has deposed

 that accused No.1 was working as Branch Manager as well
 26 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

as Head of Coffee Division, STC, Bengaluru and below him

PW.2, himself, Smt. Shyamala and Sri. Sudarshan were

working as Asst. Managers. On 18.4.2000, accused No.1

called him, instructed him to visit internal container depot

at Whitefield, Bengaluru for the purpose of taking samples

from the containers that were being shipped by M/s.

Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. M/s.

Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru

exported the coffee on behalf of STC, Bengaluru. Accused

No.1 further instructed Sri. Jayaramulu to assist him since

he was not conversant with the area and the local

language. On behalf of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru one company by name

Rosemount Shipping Lines was the authorized Clearing

and Handling Agent as per the records submitted by M/s.

Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. On

the morning of 19.4.2000 at about 11.30 A.M., himself

and Sri. Jayaramulu went to Whitefield at about 2 P.M.

and visited the Rosemount Office and the employee of the

said company took them to the container which was about

to shipped in respect of the contract between STC and the

foreign buyer. On their visit, they noticed only one
 27 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 container was ready for export as against the 5 containers

 agreed to be shipped and he informed the concerned

 company about the purpose of his visit. The coffee bags

 were identified by C & HA Employee in their presence and

 accordingly he took 2 KG of samples from 15 bags by

 using the poker and then returned to their office at 7 P.M.

 and gave the samples to accused No.1 and informed

 accused No.1 that only one container was available as

 against 5 containers that were agreed to be shipped. On

 next day, on 20.4.2000, as per the instructions of accused

 No.1, himself and Smt. Shyamala Sharma took the

 samples drawn by him to the Coffee Board for analysis as

 Sri.Sudarshan incharge of transactions was on tour,

 accused No.1 instructed him to take samples from the

 container and later he came to know that the buyer

 noticed some defects in the coffee already exported and

 accepted the consignment with some deduction in price. 24. Fourthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.4 Sri. S. Dharmaraj, who was working as

 Asst. Surveyor Grade-II in M/s. J.B. Boda & Co., Pvt.,

 Ltd., Bengaluru. He has deposed that their company was

 a designated to survey work of shipment of cargo through
 28 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

shipping lines. Their company was the main customer of

Aspinwal and & Co., Pvt. Ltd., the steamer agent for M/s.

Mearsk lines. On behalf of Aspinwal, their company

deputed him and his colleague Badarinath to conduct

survey of the export of coffee by M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru to America. Shipping

agent for that export was Rosemount Shipping Lines. The

containers in which goods are loaded are identified by the

Rosemount Shipper and as a surveyor their duty was to

unload the coffee from the lorry and they load in the

container by the labours. During the stuffing process,

they, concern surveyor representatives of Rosemount

Shipping Lines were present and after loading the cargo,

the container will be locked with one time locker which

was put by Rosemount Shipping Lines and Shipping Bills

would reflect the number of locks used and the number of

containers. The coffee would be loaded in the container

heightwise and breadthwise and 7 bags are loaded at the

heightwise and 5 bags are loaded breadthwise and one

row contains 35 bags and each container can

accommodate 8 rows in the said manner and 280 bags

can be stuffed and the container can also accommodate
 29 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

additional 20 bags near the door and in all the container

can accommodate total number of 300 bags. As

Surveyor, they are not responsible to ensure quality and

indemnification of the container and the description of

container is also reflected in the shipping bill and their

survey report is based on the shipping bill. The quality of

the coffee has to be checked by the customs and

Rosemount Shippings. The quality and quantity of coffee

is tallied with shipping bills and packing list, after the

completion of survey them, they would prepare survey

report and such survey report is forwarded to Aspinwal

along with their bill and their survey report is signed by

their Principal Surveyor who would also sign the payment

bill. Then he has deposed that Ex.P27 is their survey

report and as per Ex.P27 exporter is M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and importer is Coffee

America, USA and the brand name of coffee exported was

Indian Arabica Cherry Clean Bulk. In the said container,

300 gunny bags weighing 18210 Kgs., were stuffed and

Ex.P27 contains the round seal of their office. Ex.P28 is

their company survey report dated 22.4.2000 and as per

Ex.P28, exporter is M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports
 30 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and importer is Coffee America, USA.

 The brand name of coffee exported was Indian Arabica

 Cherry Clean Bulk and in the said container 300 gunny

 bags weighing 18210 Kgs., were stuffed. 25. Then he has deposed that Ex.P29 is their company survey

 report dated 20.4.2000 and as per Ex.P29 stuffing was

 commenced on 19.4.2000 at 12.30 hours and completed

 on 19.4.2000 at 13.25 hours and sealing was completed

 at 15.05 hours and as per Ex.P29 exporter was M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and

 importer was Coffee America, USA, the brand name of

 coffee exported was Indian Arabica Cherry Clean Bulk and

 in the said container 300 gunny bags weighing 18210

 Kgs., were stuffed. 26. Then he has deposed that Ex.P30 & 31 are their company

 survey reports dated 20.4.2000, Ex.P32 to 36 are their

 company survey reports dated 2.5.2000, Ex.P37 to 41 are

 their company survey reports dated 19.5.2000, Ex.P42 to

 46 are their company survey reports dated 8.6.2000 and

 Ex.P47 to 51 are their company survey reports dated

 10.6.2000 and as per those reports the exporter is M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and
 31 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 importer is Coffee America and in each container 300

 gunny bags weighing 18210 Kgs., were stuffed. 27. Fifthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.5 Sri. M. Sudarshan, Deputy Manager,

 STC, who was working as Asst. Manager in STC,

 Bengaluru Branch from 1999 to 2001. He has deposed

 that during the year 2000 March, he was asked to look

 after the coffee export in addition to his regular duties and

 prior to that, the coffee export division was handled by 3

 other Managers. On 23.3.2000, there was an enquiry

 from their branch at New York regarding 25 FCLs of

 Arabica Cherry Coffee. During that period, accused No.1

 was the Branch Manager at Bengaluru and he asked him

 to contact three parties out of which one was M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and accused

 No.1 spoke to them over phone in his presence and

 instructed him to get the offer from M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and forward the same

 to New York Branch. Thereafter accused No.1 informed

 him stating that contract has been done with M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru for 25 Full

 Container Loads (FCLs) and each container was having the
 32 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 capacity of 18.1 metric tons. Further he has deposed that

 Ex.P9 and P10 are two back to back contracts entered into

 between accused No.1 and M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and accused No.1 has signed

 on it. He went to the office of M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and obtained the

 signature of Managing Director Sri. Manjunath,

 Davanagere (A3). Further, he has deposed that Ex.P5 is a

 fax message sent by him to STC, New York, Ex.P6 is the

 confirmation received from STC, New York, Ex.P7 is the

 fax message sent by him to STC, New York and Ex.P8 is

 the fax message sent by accused No.1 to M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. Ex.P11 is

 the fax message sent by accused No.1 to the Director,

 STC, New Delhi. Then he has deposed that Ex.P54 and 55

 are fax message and Ex.P56 and 57 are the circulars and

 Ex.P58 is the STC Trading Manual. 28. Sixthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.6 Sri. N.V. Badarinath, Private Surveyor,

 Bengaluru. He has deposed that from 1993 to 2007, he

 worked as Asst. Surveyor in M/s. J.B. Boda & Co., Pvt.,

 Ltd., and the business of their company to supervise the
 33 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 number of packages in the container exported and there is

 a inland container depot at Whitefield, Bengaluru, wherein

 their company was having a small room and they used to

 inspect the container stuffing in the ICD Premises.

 Further, he has deposed that in the year 2000, when the

 coffee was exported to New York, their company

 supervised the number of packages in the container on

 behalf of shipping line. Their company submitted survey

 reports as per Ex.P27 to P51. 29. Seventhly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.7 Sri. Arun K.G. who was working in

 M/s. Metcalf and Hodkinson Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru from

 1998 to 2003. He has deposed that their company was

 doing survey work of consignment, their supervisor Mr.

 Shaju was issuing work order copy and then they were

 going to container and records the container number,

 vehicle number and number of packages loaded in the

 container and after doing the survey, they used to write in

 the stuffing report. 30. Eighthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.8 Sri. Shaju V.J. who was working in M/s.

 Metcalf & Hodkinsons Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru from 1991 to
 34 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 2003. He has deposed that their company was doing

 survey work of consignment, he was issuing work order

 copy and then they were going to container and records

 the container number, vehicle number and number of

 packages loaded in the container and after doing the

 survey, they used to write in the stuffing report. 31. Ninthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.9 Sri. Ashok who was working in M/s.

 Metcalf & Hodkinsons Pvt. Ltd., from 1998 to 2003. He

 has deposed that their company was doing survey work of

 consignment, he was issuing work order copy and then

 they were going to the container and records the

 container number, vehicle number and number of

 packages loaded in the container and after doing the

 survey, they used to write in the stuffing report. 32. Tenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon the

 evidence of PW.10 Sri. M.B. Somanna, who was working

 as Superintendent of Customs in Inland Container Depot,

 Whitefield, Bengaluru from 2001 to 2003 in Export

 Examination Center. He has deposed that whatever the

 pre-shipping bills coming to ICD for export, he was

 scrutinizing them and checking the consignment for the
 35 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 purpose of export. Their custom department randomly

 check 5% of consignment to know the commodity and

 they will go to the container and make random checking

 of 5% of the goods to see whether they tally with the

 declaration made by the parties. The shipping bill and

 bills of lading will be submitted to their department, after

 receiving them he used to entrust the checking work to

 their Inspectors working under him and there were three

 Inspectors working under him to conduct the checking and

 their Inspectors after inspection note the same in the

 shipping bill in the particular column. Ex.D30, Ex.P59 to

 62 are the 5 shipping bills. 33. Eleventhly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.11 Sri. Ravishankar.R. Manager,

 Rosemount Shipping India Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. He has

 deposed that since 17 years he is working in Rosemount

 Shipping India Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru joined as Asst.

 Manager and then became Manager in the said company.

 For export of goods, invoice, packing list and GR Form

 were coming to their office and based on those documents

 they used to prepare bill of lading and GR Form and

 further based on the above documents in their office
 36 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 shipping bill will be prepared and thereafter the

 documents would be submitted to the Customs Office for

 their clearance and they issue shipping bill No. and the

 matter would be verified by the Superintendent of

 Custom. Thereafter, Customs Officers would go and

 inspect the consignment as per their procedure. Ex.P52

 and 53 are the GR Form, Ex.D30, Ex.P59 to 62 are the 5

 shipping bills and Ex.P63 to 67 are the bill of lading. 34. Further, he has deposed that after getting those

 documents cleared from the custom and send two copies

 of shipping bills to shipping line and he will submit one

 copy to the container, Corporation of India for movement

 of containers for export and one copy will be sent to their

 office for record. After inspection by the custom, after

 completion of loading, the shipping line will put one time

 lock to the container and the lock No. would be mentioned

 in the shipping bill and bill of lading and once the lock is

 put, it cannot be re-opened and it can only be cut and

 opened at the final destination. They acted as custom

 house agents for M/s. Kaycee Coffee in 2000 involved in

 this case. There was no complaint from either by M/s. 37 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Kaycee Coffee or from anybody for tampering of lock in

 the subject matter involved in this case. 35. Twelfthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.12 Sri. N. Surendra, Senior Supervisor

 in Container Corporation of India Ltd., Bengaluru, who

 was working as Senior Executive during 2000. He has

 deposed that their corporation has got a yard in Whitefield

 and they are providing the service of transporting the

 containers from ICD Whitefield to Exporting Courts at

 Chennai, Mumbai and Cochin and they also provide

 service for import. M/s. Metcalf & Hadkinsons were

 survey contractors who used to take service of their

 corporation. 36. Thirteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.13 Sri. Y.L. Lingappa, Executive

 (Operation) M/s. Rosemount, Bengaluru who was working

 as Assistant earlier in the said company. He has deposed

 that for export of goods, invoice, packing list and GR form

 were coming to their office and based on those

 documents, they used to prepare bill of lading and GR

 form. Further, based on the above documents in their

 office shipping bill will be prepared and thereafter the
 38 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

documents would be submitted to the Customs Office for

their clearance and they issue Shipping Bill No. and the

matter would be verified by the Superintendent of

Customs and then the Custom Officers would go and

inspect the consignment as per their procedure. Ex.P52,

53 are the GR Forms, Ex.P59 to P62 and Ex.D30 are the

shipping bills and Ex.P63 to 67 are also bills. After getting

those documents cleared from the customs they send two

copies of shipping bills to shipping line and he will submit

one copy to the Container Corporation of India for

movement of containers for export and one copy will be

sent to their office for record. After inspection by the

custom, after completion of loading, the shipping line will

put to one time lock to the container. The lock number

would be mentioned in the shipping bill and bill of lading

and once the lock is put, it cannot be reopened and it can

only be cut and opened at the final destination. They

acted as Custom House Agent for M/s. Kaycee Coffee in

2000 involved in this case. There was no complaint from

either by M/s. Kaycee Coffee or from anybody for

tampering of lock in the subject matter involved in this

case. 39 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 37. Fourteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied

 upon the evidence of PW.14 Sri. P. Kumar, Retired Chief

 General Manager, STC, Corporate Office, New Delhi. He

 has deposed that he worked as Chief General Manager in

 STC, Corporate Office, New Delhi from 1995 to 2003. As

 per the delegation of powers of STC, during 2000, the

 Branch Manager was given power to export coffee worth

 Rs. Three (3) Crores as a single contract. If the Branch

 Manager wanted to export coffee more than Rs. Three

 crores in a single contract, he had to seek the contract

 approval from the Corporate Office, New Delhi. The

 branch was given power to select the shippers. Ex.P68 is

 the copy of the norms for non-canalized trade and

 whenever they received message from BM, STC, New

 York, they passed on the message to STC, Bengaluru and

 Ex.P11 was issued from STC, Bengaluru to Central Office.

 After receiving the goods at New York, the buyer raised

 objection for the quality and BM, STC, New York visited

 the warehouse of the buyer and personally informed them

 about the bad quality of exported coffee. The buyer did

 not accept the goods supplied and demanded for return of

 full funds already paid by him and for damages. He also
 40 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 issued notice and informed to go to arbitration

 proceedings. Their corporate office, STC, New York

 realized that there is no merit in their favour to fight

 against the buyer before the Arbitrator and accordingly

 they entered into a settlement with the buyer and agreed

 to repay the entire amount paid by him. Accordingly,

 STC, Bengaluru has paid US $ 2,65,000. Ex.P69 is the

 Settlement Agreement between STC, Bengaluru and M/s.

 Coffee America Limited and the same has been signed by

 accused No.1 on behalf of STC, Bengaluru. They advised

 their branch, Bengaluru to recover the funds from the

 shipper and also advised in the event of not paying the

 amount to lodge a FIR. Accordingly, FIR was lodged in

 the matter. 38. Fifteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.15 Ms. Rita Kunur, Retired Director of

 STC, New Delhi. She has deposed that she served in STC

 from 1972 to 2001 and served as a Director from 1995

 November to 2001, June. She know about contract No.

 6651 and 6652 vide Ex.P9 and P10 between STC and STC,

 New York. In that connection, she had received a fax

 letter Ex.P22 from their Branch Manager, STC, New York
 41 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 on 24.3.2000 and by the said letter, she was requested to

 communicate to STC, Bengaluru to ensure timely

 shipment and proper quality by M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Export Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. Based on that she

 marked the same to the Chief General Manager, STC, New

 Delhi to take up to the Branch Manager and ensure proper

 pre-shipment inspection and he spoke to STC, Bengaluru

 and informed her that the Branch Manager, STC,

 Bengaluru formed a drill to that effect. 39. Sixteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.16 Sri. N. Jeyakumar, Chief General

 Manager, STC, New Delhi. He has deposed that he served

 as Branch Manager, STC, New York from November 1995

 to May 2002. He received the enquiry from the buyer in

 March 2000. Ex.P5 to P8 and 70 are the fax messages.

 Ex.P16 is the message sent by accused No.1 to M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Export Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru to

 maintain the quality of coffee. Ex.P63 is the first

 consignment dated 24.4.2000, Ex.P64 is the second

 consignment dated 6.5.2000, Ex.P65 is the another

 consignment dated 31.5.2000, Ex.P66 is the consignment

 dated 10.6.2000 and Ex.P67 is the consignment dated
 42 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

8.6.2000 and normally 3 to 4 weeks time will be required

to reach consignment from Cochin to New York. After

receiving the first consignment buyer at New York

informed him stating that the quality of coffee is not of the

quality specified by him. Then he conveyed the same to

STC, Bengaluru and in turn STC, Bengaluru conveyed the

same to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Export Pvt. Ltd.,

Bengaluru. Ex.P71 is the shipment instrument relating to

Contract No.6651 and Ex.P72 is the shipment instrument

relating to contract No.6652 and Ex.P73 and 74 are two

FOB contracts signed between STC, Bengaluru and Coffee

America for shipment which are pertaining to contract

No.6651 and 6652. Ex.P13 is the price fixing confirmation

message sent by Coffee America to STC, Bengaluru. The

buyer Coffee America informed the STC, New York about

the poor quality of coffee supplied to them and they would

go to arbitration for the loss incurred by them. The

matter was taken to STC, New Delhi, STC, Bengaluru and

with their consent, they decided to go for settlement

outside the arbitration. Accordingly, there was settlement

and agreement was signed between STC, Bengaluru and

Coffee America as per Ex.P69. As per the settlement, the
 43 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Govt. of India agreed to pay US $ 2,65,000 to the buyer

 Coffee America on or before 30.11.2000. Accordingly,

 after obtaining the permission from Reserve Bank of India,

 the STC, Bengaluru made the payment directly to Coffee

 America. 40. Seventeenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied

 upon the evidence of PW.17 Sri. G.D. Pushparaj, Retired

 Joint General Manager of Finance & Accounts, STC,

 Bengaluru. He has deposed that he worked as Finance

 Manager in STC, Bengaluru from 1987 to 2006.

 Thereafter, he became Branch Manager, STC, Bengaluru.

 He knows about two contracts No.6651 and 6652. As

 allowed in the letter of credit, after shipment M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Export Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru negotiated the

 shipping documents and obtained the payment from

 Syndicate Bank, Bengaluru Branch. Since the coffee

 supplied by the shipper was of inferior quality, the buyer

 made the claim on STC, Bengaluru for the payment.

 Immediately, when they received the complaint from the

 foreign buyer, called the shipper and enquired as to why

 they have supplied inferior quality of coffee to the buyer.

 Since the main contract was between the STC, Bengaluru
 44 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 and the buyer, the settlement was to be settled

 immediately and accordingly the settlement was arrived at

 US $ 2,65,000 and they had to obtain permission from the

 RBI, Bengaluru and send the remittance to foreign buyer.

 After the permission was given by the RBI, Bengaluru

 through their permit, they remitted US $ 2,65,000 to the

 US Buyer and the said payment was equivalent to Rs.1.25

 Crores approximately. 41. Eighteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.18 Dr. K. Basavaraj, Head of Coffee

 Quality, Coffee Board, Bengaluru. He has deposed that

 since 23 years, he has been working in Coffee Board,

 Bengaluru. He is Coffee Quality Expert and analyzing the

 quality of coffee and certifying the quality of coffee for

 domestic market and export market. Ex.P17 to 21 are the

 reports given by him after analyzing physical coffee

 quality parameters for moisture contained, defects, grade

 specifications and presence and absence of foreign

 matters. Ex.P17 to 21 are issued for physical standard

 and moisture contents. As per Ex.P17, the sample

 contains 25.9% of triage as against the tolerance of 18%.

 It is not conforms to the standard. The Ex.P18 is the final
 45 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 result of 3 samples are mentioned and they are not

 identical to the control sample and not conformed to the

 standard. As per Ex.P19 and 20, the sample analysed are

 admixtures of Arabica Coffee and Robusta Coffee and it is

 a serious quality deviation. As per Ex.P20, there is 29%

 of blacks by weight and 10.9% of bids by weight. As per

 Ex.P21, the sample does not conform to the standard.

 Ex.P75 is one more quality evaluation report issued by

 him and as per Ex.P75, the sample contains 27.5% of

 husk and extraneous matters and this is a serious

 deviation from the standard quality. All samples analysed

 by him in this case were sent by STC, Bengaluru in a

 sealed pack and those sealed packs are opened in the

 presence of him and STC Officers and Scientists of the

 Quality Lab. 42. Ninteenthly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.19 Sri. Y. Hari Kumar, Addl.

 Superintendent of Police, CBI, Special Crime, Trivendram.

 He has deposed regarding the entire investigation done by

 him in this case. Further, he has deposed that he collected

 the records and recorded the statements of witnesses. 46 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 43. Twentiethly, the prosecution has adduced and relied upon

 the evidence of PW.20 Sri. Abraham Oommen, Chief

 Marketing Officer. He has deposed that he was working

 as Branch Manager in M/s. Aspinwal & CO., Ltd., Airport

 Road, Bengaluru from 1995 to 2005. M/s. Aspinwal & Co.,

 Ltd., was an agent for Maersk Shipping Line and he was

 enquired by CBI Officer about some containers. He has

 produced bills of lading and other documents as per

 Ex.P63 to 67 and they have been issued on behalf of M/s.

 Aspinwal & Co., Ltd. Those documents have been issued

 after the Custom Authority given permission for exporting

 the consignment. Custom authority have put one time

 lock to the container before loading. The container was

 inspected by the Supervisor, Excise Authority and then it

 was locked and it was checked at the destination point

 and found intact. At the destination point, the consignee

 refused to accept the consignment and the consignment

 was deposited in the warehouse and they claimed

 demurrage charges from the consignee. 44. Twenty firstly, the prosecution has adduced and relied

 upon the evidence of PW.21 Sri. Surendranath Rajguru,

 Retired Chief General Manager (Law), STC, New Delhi. He
 47 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 has deposed that he was working as Chief Legal Advisor

 (Law) in State Trading Corporate Office, New Delhi from

 1999 to 2005. During August 2000, their General

 Manager instructed him to go to Bengaluru office to take

 steps for the recovery of the damages claimed by the

 buyer in this case. After reaching Bengaluru, he

 contacted their panel advocate, discussed about the

 problems, who advised him to file a criminal complaint

 against M/s. Kaycee Coffee. In the meanwhile, the

 Managing Director and other officers of M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee, came forward to negotiate for settlement, but they

 did not settle the claim. Their Branch Manager filed a

 complaint before the police. Initially, the foreign buyer

 claimed damages of US $ 4,12,000 and after negotiation,

 they agreed for damages of US $ 2,65,000. If the matter

 was contested before Arbitrator in USA, the cost would

 have been much more high. Therefore, the efforts were

 made to settle the matter outside the arbitration. 45. Twenty Secondly, the prosecution has adduced and relied

 upon the evidence of PW.22 Sri. Srikanteshwara S.,

 Branch Manager, STC, Bengaluru. He has deposed that

 Ex.P91 is the copy of the approval letter received from
 48 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Head Office for making payment. Ex.P92 is the copy of

 permission accorded by Reserve Bank of India for making

 payment. Ex.P93 is the copy of the letter to State Bank of

 India, Overseas Branch, Bengaluru requesting for issue of

 Demand Draft for payment to the buyer in this case.

 Ex.P94 is the copy of the demand draft sent to the buyer

 and Ex.P95 is the copy of bank advise and Ex.P96 is the

 copy of conformation of receipt and Ex.P97 is the copy of

 letter of buyer admitting the settlement and withdrawal of

 the case. 46. Twenty Thirdly, the prosecution has adduced and relied

 upon the evidence of PW.23 Dr. Arvind Pandalai, retired

 Chairman & Managing Director, STC, New Delhi. He has

 deposed that from 2003 to 2008, he functioned as

 Chairman & Managing Director, State Trading Corporation

 of India Ltd., (Sanctioning Authority), New Delhi. Accused

 No.1 was their Branch Manager at Bengaluru STC during

 the relevant period. He was the appointing and removing

 authority of accused No.1. CBI sought sanction to

 prosecute accused No.1 and sent the material to their

 Vigilance Department. Their Vigilance Department after

 examining the matter placed the file before him and he
 49 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 has gone through the papers and taken his own view in

 the matter and passed the sanction order as per Ex.P77. 47. Now, coming to the documentary evidence of prosecution,

 Ex.P1 is the letter of Coffee Board, registering M/s. Kay

 Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., as a registered

 dealers /FSQ Exporters allotted the registration No. 568

 and Export Code No.699. It is clearly admitted by the

 accused that M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt.

 Ltd., submitted their application dated 27.11.1997 to the

 Coffee Board and the Coffee Board has registered and

 allotted registration number and Export Code on

 4.12.1997. In Ex.P1 it is mentioned that accused No.2 and

 3 are authorised to represent M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. 48. Ex.P2 is the registered permit for export of FSQ Coffees in

 the name of M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt.

 Ltd., in which the name and signatures of authorised

 representatives of the dealer along with their photographs

 are appearing in the said document. The contents of Ex.P2

 are clearly admitted. 49. Ex. P3 is the statement maintained by the Coffee Board,

 Bengaluru, showing the export of coffee during 1.4.1999 to
 50 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 31.3.2000 by the coffee exporters. At Sl. No.30, the name

 of M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., is

 forthcoming. During the above period, the said company

 exported 1494.6 metric tons of coffee to various countries

 having the value of 832.8 lakhs. It is clearly admitted

 about the export of coffee made by M/s. Kay Cee Coffee

 and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., during the above period. 50. Ex.P4 is the fax message received from Branch Manager,

 STC, New York on 23.3.2000 conveying the offer of the

 buyer for purchase of Indian Arabica Cherry bulk clean

 coffee 45 FCL. Ex.P5 is the fax message from STC,

 Bengaluru to STC, New York conveying the message on

 24.3.2000. Ex.P6 is the fax message from STC, New York

 to Mr. Bill Fritsch/Mr. Sean Starke confirming the

 acceptance of proposal stating that the orders against

 subject to approval of sample basis and payment Letter of

 Credit at sight was accepted. 51. Ex.P7 is the fax message dated 25.3.2000 from STC,

 Bengaluru to STC, New York accepting the proposal for

 showing the STC, Bengaluru as a Seller and M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee as a Shipper. It was further informed that purchase
 51 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 contract to be sent immediately so as to enable them to

 organise shipment in time on 25.3.2000. 52. Ex.P8 is the fax message dated 25.3.2000 of accused No.1

 to M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 requesting to send the samples of 500 grams to send the

 same to the buyers for their evaluation. 53. Ex.P9 and P10 are the contracts between STC., Bengaluru

 and M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 represented by accused No.2 and 3 in respect of contract

 P6651 and 6652 dated 24.3.2000. The said contracts have

 been signed by accused No.1 as Branch Manager, STC.,

 Bengaluru and Accused No.3 as Authorised Signatory of

 M/s. Kay Cee Coffee and Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. In the

 said contracts, it is mentioned that order against subject to

 approval of sample by buyer. It is further mentioned that

 "Contract between the buyer and STC forms an integral

 part of this contract and you shall be responsible for the

 due fulfilment of the obligation set out thereunder. In case

 of default of any nature, whatsoever, you will be fully

 responsible for the consequential damages, penalties etc.,

 and STC will not have obligation or liability whatsoever in
 52 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 this respect." The contents of Ex.P9 and P10 are clearly

 admitted by all the accused. 54. Ex.P11 is the fax message dated 3.3.2000 of accused No.1

 to Ms. Rita Kunur, Director (Marketing), STC of India Ltd.,

 New Delhi in respect of Direct Coffee Exports under DOP.

 Ex.P12 and 13 are the fax messages of buyer Coffee

 America dated 30.5.2000 fixing the price of the export

 coffee, which are not disputed by any of the accused. 55. Ex.P14 is the letter of accused No.1 to M/s. Kay Cee

 Coffee, Bengaluru dated 4.4.2000 and the same is

 admitted by all the accused. In Ex.P14 it is mentioned in

 respect of contract No.6651 and 6652 that: 56. Ex.P15 is the Export Journal pertaining to 1997-98 in

 respect of export of coffee by the exporters maintained in

 the STC., Branch, Bengaluru. Ex.P16 is the fax message

 from accused No.1 to M/s. Kay Cee, Bengaluru on

 25.4.2000, wherein it is mentioned that the sample drawn

 from the first load of shipment (5 FCLS) from ICD,

 Bengaluru by representatives of STC, against the ABV

 referred contract, has been sent to Coffee Board for Lab

 Analysis. It is further mentioned that: REPORT RECEIVED FROM COFFEE BOARD IN R/O
 THE QUALITY OF THE COFFEE DESPATCHED BY
 YOU TO 'COFFEE AMERICA" AGAINST THE ABV
 MENTIONED CONTRACT. IN ALL RESPECTS, THE COFFEE IS FAR BELOW
 THE AVERAGE. PL NOTE THAT WE HOLD YOU
 TOTALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING
 OUT OF THE ABV MENTIONED CONTRACT DUE TO
 THIS POOR QUALITY OF COFFEE DESPTACHED BY
 YOU. WE SUGGEST YOU TO KINDLY ENSURE THE
 PROPER QUALITY OF COFFEE BEFORE
 DESPATCHING THE BALANCE 10 FCLS. PL LET US
 54 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 KNOW THE READINESS OF THE COFFEE ENABLE
 US TO DRAW THE SAMPLE FOR LAB TESTING BY
 COFFEE BOARD. WE FEEL THIS IS A VERY UNETHICAL
 /UNPROFESSIONAL WAY OF HANDLING COFFEE
 FOR EXPORT. KINDLY TAKE APPROPRIATE
 ACTION TO CORRECT THE DEFECTS SINCE YOU
 ARE TOTALLY LIABLE FOR MAINTAINING THE
 QUALITY OF THE COFFEE". 57. Ex.P17 is the Quality Evaluation Report dated 20.4.2000

 issued by Deputy Director, Quality Control, Coffee

 Board, Bengaluru. It is pertinent to note the

 observations of Quality Analyser. He has reported as

 follows: - 58. Ex. P18 is the letter of Deputy Director, Quality Control,

 Coffee Board, Bengaluru dated 21.9.2000 to STC,

 Bengaluru. The contents of the letter reads as follows: - H&M Warehousing of Jacksonville, INC, 2101
 West 33rd Street, Jacksonville, Florida - 32209-
 0028 and 1(one) Control Sample of Arabica
 Cherry Bulk which was sent to buyer for
 approval were handed over to the Quality
 Control Division, Coffee Board, Bengaluru by
 Mrs. Shyamala Sharma, Asst. Manager (Mktg)
 and Shri P.B. Malde, Asst. Manager (Marketing)
 of State Trading Corporation of India,
 Bengaluru. The sealed samples are opened before the
 above representatives of STC and also in
 presence of the Deputy Director (QC) and the
 Asst. Coffee Marketing Officer (QC) besides the
 other scientific staff of this Division. The
 samples were analyzed and the evaluation
 reports are enclosed herewith. The samples were analyzed against the
 Control Sample of Arabica Cherry Bulk. The
 3(three) samples received were not identified to
 the Control Sample and are identified as
 Robusta Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1341), Robusta
 Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1344) and mix of Arabica
 and Robusta Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1325). The detailed 4(four) evaluation reports are
 enclosed herewith." 59. Ex. P19 to 21 are the Quality Evaluation Reports. It is

 pertinent to note the contents of Ex.P19 which reads as

 follows: - 60. It is pertinent to note the contents of Ex.P20 which reads

 as follows: - 61. It is pertinent to note the contents of Ex.P21 which reads

 as follows: - 62. Ex.P22 is the fax message dated 24.3.2000 from B.M.

 STC., New York to the Director, STC, New Delhi. It is

 pertinent to note the contents of Ex.P22 at para No.1

 which reads as follows: - Alpha plantations (many poor quality shipments,
 weight shortage claim), M/s. Kaycee Coffee
 (problem with STC, Chennai, switching over to
 another STC's branch), M/s. Chola (earlier
 known as Kuriakose whose cargo-5 FCLs got
 rejected by FDA) are among such shippers.
 Have already sounded Dr. Saha, BM, Bengaluru
 about their poor performances and hope he
 would be extra careful for timely / quality
 shipments. Further, needless to mention, above
 shows we are not serious in increasing our
 supply base and yet to come out of the limited
 suppliers/small circle that was formed long time
 back. 59 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 63. Ex.P23 is the fax message dated 30.9.2000 from STC,

 Bengaluru to STC, New Delhi, wherein it is mentioned

 about the action taken against M/s. Kay Cee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. 64. Ex.P24 is the letter of Arbitration, Administrator to STC,

 New York dated 28.8.2000 which reads as follows: - 65. Ex.P25 is the fax message dated 14.8.2000 from the buyer

 to STC, New York in respect of Contract No.6651 which

 reads as follows: - 66. Ex.P26 is the statement of claim and demand for technical

 arbitration in respect of Contract P-06651 wherein, Para-

 17 to 20 of the claim statement reads as follows: - 61 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 67. Ex.P27 to P51 are the container stuffing survey reports

 from 22.4.2000 to 10.6.2000 issued by J.B. Boda

 Surveyors Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. 68. Ex.P52 is the shipping bill GR Form dated 1.6.2000.

 Ex.P53 is the commercial invoice dated 2.6.2000 in respect

 of Contract P6652. Ex.P54 is the fax message dated

 21.3.2000 from STC, New Delhi to STC, Bengaluru in

 respect of direct coffee exports. Ex.P55 is the fax message

 dated 29.3.2000 from STC., Corporate Office, New Delhi to

 STC., Bengaluru. 69. Ex.P56 is the Circular No.173 dated 27.7.2000 issued by

 STC, New Delhi. This circular was subsequent to the

 finalisation of Contract No.6651 and 6652. Ex.P57 is the

 Circular dated 19.8.1999 issued by the STC., New Delhi to

 follow the norms for non-canalised trade. 70. Ex.P58 is the extract of STC Trading Manual. Ex.P59 to 62

 are the Shipping Bills for Export of coffee issued by

 Rosemount Shipping India Pvt. Ltd. Ex.P63 to 67 are the

 Bill of Lading issued by Maersk Sealand to M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Ex.P68 is the norms for

 non-canalysed Trade dated 19.7.2000 issued by STC., New

 Delhi. 62 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 71. Ex.P69 is the Settlement Agreement between Coffee

 America (USA) Corporation, STC, New York and STC,

 Bengaluru. This Settlement Agreement has been signed

 by accused No.1 as a Branch Manager on behalf of STC,

 Bengaluru. In the Settlement Agreement, it is mentioned

 as follows: - In para-4 of the Settlement Agreement, it is mentioned

 about payment of the settled amount which reads as

 follows: - 72. Ex.P70 is the fax message dated 3.4.2000 send from

 Coffee America to STC, New York. Ex.P71 is the fax

 message dated 31.3.2000 of Coffee America to STC, New

 York in respect of Contract No.6651. Ex.P72 is the fax

 message dated 17.4.2000 from Coffee America to STC,

 New York in respect of contract No.6652. Ex.P73 and 74

 are the two EOE contract between the STC, Bengaluru and

 M/s. Coffee America in respect of contract No.6651 and

 6652. 73. Ex.P75 is Quality Evaluation Report dated 21.9.2000

 issued by the Deputy Director (Quality Control), Coffee

 Board, Bengaluru. In Ex.P75, the opinion, feedback report

 and remarks are mentioned as follows: - 74. Ex. P76 is the FIR submitted by the CBI by registering a

 criminal case against accused No.1 to 3 and others in RC

 No.22(A)/2003 for the offences punishable u/s 120B r/w Sec. 420 IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act, 1988 . 75. Ex.P77 is the sanction order dated 14.2.2005 to prosecute

 accused No.1. Ex.P78 is the letter dated 24.2.2005 of

 Chief Vigilance Officer to the CBI. Ex.P79 is the

 Notification issued by the Govt. of Karnataka dated

 2.9.2003 according consent for investigation of this case

 by the CBI. Ex.P80 is the Notification issued by the Govt.

 of India dated 26.9.2003 extending the powers and

 jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police

 Establishment to the whole of State of Karnataka for

 investigation of offences against accused No.1 to 3 by the

 CBI. Ex.P81 is the statement showing the contracts

 entered by STC, Bengaluru with M/s. KayCee Coffee for

 European Buyers for the year 1999-2000. Ex.P82 is the

 Certificate of Incorporation pertaining to M/s. KayCee
 65 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., issued by the Registrar

of Companies dated 11.11.1997. Ex.P83 is the statement

of account in respect of current account No.1865,

pertaining to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Pvt. Ltd., in

Syndicate Bank, Basaveshwara Road, Bengaluru. Ex.P84

to 87 are the commercial invoices dated 2.5.2000,

2.6.2000 and 12.6.2000 in respect of Contract No.6651

and 6652. Ex.P87 to 89 are the copies of bills purchased

by Syndicate Bank in respect coffee exported by M/s.

Kaycee Coffee. Ex.P90 is the letter dated 1.10.2004 of

Chief Manager, Syndicate Bank, Millers Road Branch,

Bengaluru to CBI. Ex.91 is the Fax Message dated

15.12.2000 regarding approval from Head Office for

making payment to the buyer. Ex.P92 is the true copy of

the permission accorded by the RBI to make payment.

Ex.P93 is the true copy of the letter to SBI, Overseas

Branch, Bengaluru for issue of DD. Ex.P94 is the true copy

of Demand Draft for US$ 2,65,000 dated 15.12.2000.

Ex.P95 is the true copy of bank advice dated 15.12.2000.

Ex.P96 is the true copy of fax message regarding the

confirmation of receipt of amount for US$ 2,65,000 from

M/s. Coffee America dated 21.12.2000. Ex.P97 is the true
 66 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 copy of fax letter dated 20.12.2000 from M/s. Coffee

 America to STC., New York admitting the settlement and

 withdrawal of arbitration case. 76. Looking to the documentary evidence relied upon by the

 accused No.1, Ex.D1 is the attested copy of the Fax

 Message dated 12.12.2000 from STC, New Delhi to STC.,

 Bengaluru and other branches communicating the

 guidelines in respect of export of coffee as per the minutes

 of Board meeting held on 7.12.2000 which reads as

 follows: - 77. Ex. D2 is the attested copy of letter dated 2.3.2000 issued

 by the Syndicate Bank, Miller Road Branch, Bengaluru to

 STC., Bengaluru about the credit worthiness of M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru.

 Ex.D3 is the attested copy of Circular No.173 dated

 27.7.2000. Ex.D4 is the copy of the FIR in Crime

 No.343/2000 of Cubbon Park Police Station, Bengaluru.

 Ex.D5 is the copy of the complaint lodged by accused No.1
 67 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 and his Finance Manager on 26.8.2000. Ex.D6 is the

 attested copy of verification of assets of M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru by Private Eye

 (P) Ltd., dated 14.7.2001. Ex.D7 is the certified copy of

 the order on I.A.No.1 and 2 passed in O.S.No.15412/01

 dated 1.8.2003. Ex.D8 is the attested copy of Appraisal

 Report. Ex.D9 is the attested copy of self-appraisal report

 of PW.5 Sri. M. Sudarshan. Ex.D10 is the attested copy of

 office order No. 46/98-99 dated 11.1.1999. Ex.D11 is the

 attested copy of office order No.58/98-99 dated 4.3.1999.

 Ex.D12 is the office order No.30/2000-01 dated 21.7.2000. 78. Ex.D13 is the attested copy of final notice dated 9.8.2000.

 Ex.D14 is the attested copy of note for consideration of the

 board put up by Ms. Rita Kunur, Director, STC., New Delhi

 dated 30.9.2000 regarding settlement of quality claims

 arising out of supply of coffee by export by M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. Ex.D15 is

 the contracts concluded by M/s. Kaycee & Group of

 Companies during 1999-2000 and 2000-2001 with STC.,

 Bengaluru. Ex.D16 is the copy of the office note. Ex.D17

 is the attested copy of fax message dated 14.7.2000 from

 STC., Bengaluru to STC., New York. Ex.D18 is the
 68 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 attested copy of letter dated 11.7.2000 from M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru to STC.,

 Bengaluru. Ex.D19 is the copy of the letter dated

 22.8.2000 written by accused No.1 to the General

 Manager, Zonal Office, Syndicate Bank. Ex.D20 is the

 letter written by accused No.1 on 24.8.2000 to the Chief

 Commissioner of Customs. Ex.D21 is the attested copy of

 Status Report dated 11.9.2000. Ex.D22 is the attested

 copy of covering letter dated 11.9.2000 from STC.,

 Bengaluru to STC., New Delhi. Ex.D23 is the Branch

 Opinion on entire issue. Ex.D24 is the Circular No.105

 dated 28.1.1994 wherein it is mentioned with regard to

 selection of supplier/ associates which reads as follows: 79. Ex.D25 is the statement showing shipper-wise contracts

 during 1999-2000. Ex.D26 is the original complaint lodged
 69 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 by accused No.1 and his Finance Manager to the Inspector

 of Police, Cubbon Park Police Station on 26.8.2000.

 Ex.D27 is the FIR submitted by Cubbon Park Police Station

 to the court after registering a criminal case against M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru,

 accused No.2 and 3 and others. 80. Ex.D28 is the certified copy of the plaint in O.S.No.

 15412/2001 on the file of City Civil Court, Bengaluru.

 Ex.D29 is the certified copy of the judgment and decree

 passed by the IV Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge, Mayo

 Hall Unit, Bengaluru (CCH-21) on 4.1.2010. Ex.D30 is the

 shipping bill dated 8.4.2000. Ex.D31 is the Copy of GR

 Form. Ex.D32 is the Circular No.105. Ex.D33 is the fax

 message dated 28.3.2000 from STC, Bengaluru to STC,

 New York. Ex.D34 is the fax message dated 20.4.2000

 from STC, Bengaluru to M/s. Kaycee Coffee. Ex.D35 is the

 fax message from STC, Bengaluru to M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 on 25.4.2000. Ex.D36 is the fax message from STC,

 Bengaluru to STC, New York dated 1.1.2000. Ex.D37 is

 the copy of standard quotation proposal. Ex.D38 is the fax

 message dated 22.3.2000 from STC, Bengaluru to STC,

 New York. Ex.D39 is the fax dated 19.5.2000 from STC,
 70 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bengaluru to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spice Exports Pvt. Ltd.

 Ex.D40 is the fax message dated 24.5.2000 from STC,

 Bengaluru to STC, New York. Ex.D41 is the letter of

 accused No.1 to STC, New York dated 4.7.2000. Ex.D42 is

 the fax message dated 23.5.2000 from STC, Bengaluru to

 STC, New York. Ex.D43 is the letter dated 15.4.2000 from

 accused No.1 to M/s. Kaycee Coffee. Ex.D44 is the copy of

 the Arbitration Proceedings. Ex.D45 is the fax message

 dated 14.7.2000 from accused No.1 to STC, New York.

 Ex.D46 is the fax message dated 23.10.2000 from STCL,

 Bengaluru to STC., New York for disposal of stock in New

 York. Ex.D47 is the letter dated 19.1.2001 from accused

 No.1 to STC., New Delhi seeking permission to file a civil

 suit against M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 Ex.D48 is the copy of the Airway bill dated 28.3.2000 for

 sending the coffee sample. 81. Bearing in mind, the above admitted facts, now I will

 proceed to consider the allegations of the prosecution

 against accused No.1 to 3. 82. A) AWARDING OF CONTRACT WITHOUT INVITING

 TENDER AND WITHOUT LOOKING FOR ANY OTHER
 71 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 WELL ESTABLISHED EXPORTERS IN THE COFFEE

 FIELD: 72 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., termed as

 back to back contract. Accordingly, the contracts have

 been executed for due performance in between the

 respective parties. 86. It is further admitted that M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., was in the export field since 1997. PW.1

 N.K. Subramanya has deposed about the registration of

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and

 permission to export of coffee and allotment of registration

 number and Export Code as per Ex.P1 and P2. It is also

 admitted about the export of Coffee during 1.4.1999 to

 31.3.2000 by the various exporters as per Ex.P3

 maintained in the Coffee Board, Bengaluru. As per Ex.P3,

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was 30th in

 the rank of exporter of coffee to overseas buyers. It is

 forthcoming from Ex.P3 that the said company exported

 1494.6 metric tons coffee having the value of 832.8 lakhs. 87. It is pertinent to note the evidence of PW.5 M. Sudarshan

 who was working as Asst. Manager in STC., Bengaluru. He

 has deposed that during the year 2000 March, he was

 looking after the coffee export in addition to his regular

 duties. Then he has deposed that prior to that the coffee
 73 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 export division was handled by three other Managers.

 Then he has deposed that on 23.3.2000 there was an

 enquiry from their branch at New York regarding export of

 25 FCLS of Arabica Cherry coffee and accused No.1 was

 the Branch Manager at Bengaluru and he asked him to

 contact three parties out of which one was M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and accused No.1 spoke

 to them over phone in his presence and instructed him to

 get the offer from M/s. Kaycee Coffee and forward the

 same to New York. Then he has deposed that accordingly

 he has sent the fax message to STC, New York and

 contract was concluded. Then he has deposed that Ex.P9

 and P10 are the contracts entered into between accused

 No.1 and M/s. Kaycee Coffee. 88. As per the evidence of PW.5, accused No.1 was a Branch

 Manager and head of STC, Bengaluru. PW.5 was working

 in STC., Bengaluru and looking after coffee division during

 March 2000 and he attended the proposal which was

 received from PW.16 from STC., New York. 89. It is deposed by PW.1 that the Coffee Board maintained

 data regarding the significant exporters in terms of exports

 and track record of exporters. The data contains the
 74 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 quantity of coffee exported by M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd. Export Summary extract of Coffee Board

 as per Ex.P3 confirmed that M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., made export of quantity of 1494.6

 metric tons valued at Rs.832.8 lakhs. M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., ranked 30th among 169

 registered exporters and doing fairly good business. 90. Further, he has deposed that STC., Bengaluru used to get

 list of exporters from Market Solutions Coffee Board,

 Bengaluru. List was updated every year. The selection of

 exporters was being made by assessing their performance.

 STC would use to kept their performance appraisal either

 from market or Coffee Board being regulatory body. 91. PW.2 Vijaya Kuradagi has deposed about the

 establishment of STC and Branch at Bengaluru. Then he

 has deposed that STC., had branches in USA, Germany,

 Australia, Singapore etc., and those foreign branches have

 been closed. The role of foreign branches was to identify

 the business potential in respective countries and sent

 those respective potential to branches in India. The

 branches in India in turn used to contact associates of

 STC, who could supply the offer of purchase. Once the
 75 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 deal was finalised, the corporation entered into agreement

 with the supplier in India in the standard format which is

 normally called as back to back contract. Back to back

 contract would indicate incorporation of terms and

 conditions stipulated by foreign buyer in the contract

 entered by corporation with the supplier of India and for

 the service rendered by the corporation, charges are

 collected in the form of trade margin or service charges

 from the supplier in India. 92. Then he has deposed that the corporation was having two

 types of contracts. They are (i) back to back contracts (ii)

 direct contract. In back to back contract, the responsibility

 of supply of goods to be exported is on the part of the

 supplier in India. In this contract the role of the

 corporation is to act like a commission agent. In direct

 contract, corporation will be directly dealing with the

 foreign buyer and procure the materials and take the

 responsibility of exporting the goods to the foreign buyer.

 The corporation would generally delegate its powers in

 respect of the duties. 93. In his cross-examination, he has admitted the registration

 and export business of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices
 76 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Exports Pvt. Ltd. Then he has admitted the note put up for

 consideration of the board at STC, New Delhi by PW.15 as

 per Ex.D14. 94. It is pertinent to note the evidence of PW.2 and the

 contents of Ex.D14 wherein the track record of suppliers is

 mentioned at Para No.3 which reads as follows: - 95. As per the evidence, STC, Bengaluru verified financial

 soundness/credit worthiness of M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., from their banker, Syndicate
 77 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bank, Miller Road, Bengaluru and their transaction report

 and experience as to Kaycee Coffee dealings were found

 satisfactory in coffee trade. Ex.D2 is the Information

 Report and PW.2 has admitted the same. The track report

 of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., with STC,

 Bengaluru confirmed that M/s. Kaycee Coffee concluded 36

 contracts quantity 1912 metric tons valued at Rs.12 crores

 during 25.6.1999 to 24.3.2000. Out of those contracts 26

 contracts of intermediary and 10 contracts were of seller

 contract as per Ex.D14 and D15. 96. As per the evidence during 1999-2000 M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was a major and established

 exporter of coffee to foreign buyers through STC.,

 Bengaluru and identified Kaycee Coffee as a good

 associate supplier. PW.2 has admitted this fact in his

 cross-examination. It is evident from the evidence that

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was having

 a curing unit at Hassan. The installed capacity of curing

 unit of M/s. Kaycee Coffee was 9000 metric ton per

 annum. PW.2 has admitted it in his cross-examination. As

 per the evidence, M/s. Kaycee Coffee owned coffee estate
 78 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 and they were processing raw coffee in their curing unit

 and they were direct manufacturers. 97. That Circular No.105 dated 28.1.1994 prescribed several

 norms for non-canalised trade as per Ex.D24. In Ex.D24

 norms were prescribed for selection of suppliers/

 associates. Looking to the contents of Ex.D24 referred

 above, it is clear that while making selection of associates/

 suppliers, it shall not be necessary to invite any tenders of

 competitive offers etc., and the selection will be solely

 based on commercial judgment of the operating division.

 In respect of contract No.6651 and 6652 all the norms

 were followed. 98. BAC Note dated 3.3.2000 as per Ex.P11(a) identified M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee as a good associate based on their

 performance and a proven record in coffee export through

 STC, Bengaluru at that time. BAC, consists of Billing

 Manager PW.2, Finance Manager PW.17 and Branch

 Manager to do direct export of coffee. This proposal was

 not accepted by the Corporate Office. This Ex.P11 is

 nothing to do with Ex.P9 and P10 which are back to back

 contract. Further, PW.2 Billing Manager confirmed that at

 the relevant time about 15 to 20 suppliers were working
 79 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 with STC, Bengaluru during 1999-2000. M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee were major and established coffee exports to STC,

 Bengaluru. PW.2 dealt with M/s. Kaycee Coffee in his

 capacity as a Deputy Manager, STC., Bengaluru. PW.2 has

 entrusted several contracts to M/s. Kaycee Coffee for

 European Buyers. It is forthcoming from the evidence of

 PW.2 that at relevant time as a Billing Manager identified

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee as a good associate exporter. 99. Further, in his cross-examination PW.2 has admitted that

 the coffee trade is a gentlemen's trade and contracts are

 made over phone and subsequently they are formalised by

 documentation. Further, he has admitted that in case of

 coffee trade, the goods are valued for very short time and

 the contract in many cases would be finalised within 10 to

 15 minutes and there is no procedure of floating tenders

 for export of coffee and by and which M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 executed the contracts to the satisfaction of STC and

 buyer. Further, he has admitted that to his knowledge,

 STC, Bengaluru has not taken any hasty decision in

 awarding contracts bearing No.6651 and 6652 to M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. 80 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 100. Looking to the evidence of PW.17 G.D. Pushparaj who was

 working as Finance Manager in STC, Bengaluru has

 deposed about the Contract No.6651 and 6652. Further,

 he has deposed about the rejection of coffee by the buyer

 and settlement. In his cross-examination he has admitted

 that there was no procedure or practice to float tenders in

 coffee trade during 2000. Further, he has admitted that

 under accused No.1 four Managers i.e., one Deputy

 Manager (Marketing) and three Asst. Managers

 (Marketing) were working in coffee division. He has also

 admitted the Board Advisory Committee in respect of

 export of coffee in STC, Bengaluru. Further, he has

 admitted that while selecting the exporter, they will see

 their reputation in the market, performance and then

 select. Then he has admitted that prior to this contract,

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., exported

 Rs.25 crores of coffee through STC, Bengaluru. Further he

 has admitted that their Branch Advisory Committee

 selected the name of accused No.2. Further, he has

 admitted that based on their selection contract was

 awarded to accused No.2. 81 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 101. As per the evidence of PW.17, it is proved that accused

 No.1 was the Branch Manager and head of coffee division

 during the relevant period, under him one Deputy Manager

 and three Asst. Managers were working in the coffee

 division. Further, there was a Branch Advisory Committee

 to select the exporter. In the present case, the Branch

 Advisory Committee has selected accused No.2 and on the

 basis of their selection contract was awarded to M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru

 represented by accused No.2 and 3. 102. It is urged by accused No.2 that in case of export of coffee

 seeds, quality of the coffee is directly and proportionately

 based on (a) quantity of the coffee to be supplied, (b)

 distance involved and (c) urgency involved. Coffee seeds

 are not manufactured, whereas it is naturally grown. M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., is not the

 manufacturer of coffee seeds whereas they are exporters

 of coffee seeds after curing the same. A successful coffee

 exporter is one whose performance is assessed not only

 based on the quantum of coffee supplied over a period of

 time but also based on the concluded contract. The dispute

 with regard to the quality is rampant, existing and no
 82 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 exporter is an exception to the same but the question is

 how best an Exporter satisfies his buyer either by replacing

 or by compensating to an extent of disputed quality?

 Generally, disputed quality would be around 20%. The

 name of the Kaycee Coffee was in news during the year

 1998-2000 because M/s. Kaycee Coffee has exported more

 than Rs.100 crores Coffee Seeds to various other countries

 under the Direct Private Contracts and nearly Rs.83 Crores

 of Coffee Seeds through State Trading Corporation of

 India. The Contracts done through STC were to the

 satisfaction of STC and hence, decent number of Contracts

 were allotted to M/s. Kaycee Coffee by STC Cochin, STC

 Chennai and STC Bangalore. 103. Considering the above contention of accused No.2 and 3,

 they have admitted about the dispute of quality of coffee

 in 20% of cases. Out of those cases, the present case and

 dispute regarding quality has also covered. 104. In the present case, looking to the urgency of the supplier

 and the time required for concluding the contract was very

 minimum. As stated by PW.17 there was a Branch

 Advisory Committee for the coffee division in STC.,

 Bangalore for selection of supplier/exporter. PW.17 has
 83 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 clearly admitted that in the present case, in respect of

 present contracts Branch Advisory Committee selected

 accused No.2 for supply of coffee to America. As seen

 from the evidence of PW.2, 5 and 17, it is clear that it is

 not the individual decision of Branch Manager alone to

 select the supplier of coffee. PW.2 who was the Asst.

 Manager was dealing with coffee division along with other

 officers were responsible. When the Branch Advisory

 Committee has taken decision to select the accused No.2

 for supply of coffee. There is no substance in the

 allegations that the norms prescribed for selecting the

 suppliers were not followed by accused No.1. 105. Pursuant to the Branch Advisory Committee Selection, the

 selection of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 who was having credibility, capacity to export the quantity

 of coffee offered was selected by the STC, Bengaluru. No

 doubt, accused No.1 as a Branch Manager and head of

 coffee division has signed the contracts on behalf of STC,

 Bengaluru with Coffee America which cannot be said that

 he had alone taken decision and responsible for the

 selection of the supplier. 84 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 106. When the norms says that there was no necessity of

 inviting the tenders and selection of suppliers should be

 based on commercial judgment, there is no truth in the

 allegations of the prosecution regarding this matter.

 Further, STC, Bengaluru looking to the business of M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and the export

 done by them and their financial condition, credibility in

 the market they were selected in the present contract to

 supply the coffee to Coffee America as per the sample

 approved by the buyer. 107. Though the prosecution has examined 5 witnesses from

 STC, Bengaluru, 4 witnesses from STC., Corporate Office,

 New Delhi and one witness from STC., New York, none of

 them have deposed that it was required to call for the

 tenders in respect of present contracts and to ascertain the

 credibility of the supplier. Therefore, absolutely no

 evidence is forthcoming before the court to prove this

 allegation against the accused No.1. B) PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE FROM THE ACCUSED NO.2 & 3 108. Secondly, it is alleged by the prosecution that accused

 No.1 has not taken performance bank guarantee from the
 85 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 accused No.2 and 3. PWs.2, 3, 5, 14 to 17 and 21 to 23

 have nowhere deposed that in the present contracts

 accused No.1 was required to insist or take bank

 guarantee from accused No.2 and 3 for due performance

 of the contract by them. Admittedly, there are no circulars

 which mandate as on the date of the transactions

 produced by the prosecution proving that the accused No.1

 was required to take performance bank guarantee from

 accused No.2 and 3. Admittedly there were 169 contracts

 executed by STC, Bengaluru and in none of those

 contracts, the said performance bank guarantee has been

 obtained or insisted. 109. It is relevant to note that PW.2 in his cross-examination

 has admitted that STC, Bengaluru had done about 26

 contracts with European countries and those contracts

 were handled by him and in those contracts they have not

 taken performance bank guarantee in coffee trade from

 exporter. Further, he has admitted that from 12.12.2000

 getting of bank guarantee of Rs. 5 lakhs and EMD of Rs. 2

 lakhs from new exporters to STC was introduced by the

 Corporate Office. Further, he has admitted that M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., exported huge
 86 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 quantity of coffee to foreign buyers earlier in the year

 2000. Then he has admitted that STC, Bengaluru has

 already done a business to the tune of Rs.20 to 25 crores

 during the year with associate. Therefore, the prosecution

 has failed to prove that in any of the earlier contracts in

 which the performance bank guarantee were taken.

 Therefore, there is no merit in the allegation of the

 prosecution against accused No.1 that he has failed to

 obtain performance bank guarantee from accused No.2

 and 3 in respect of the present contracts. 110. Thirdly, it is alleged by the prosecution that accused No.1

 in order to help the accused No.2 and 3 included the STC,

 Bengaluru as seller clause in the agreement. It is evident

 from the oral and documentary evidence of the

 prosecution that Coffee America specifically insisted that in

 the agreement STC, Bengaluru should be the seller. As

 per the offer and acceptance conditions finalised in

 between the parties STC, Bengaluru has been named as

 seller in the contract. None of the witnesses of the STC,

 Bengaluru, STC Corporate office, New Delhi have deposed
 87 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 that naming of STC, Bengaluru as a seller in contract was

 not proper and it was the individual decision of accused

 No.1, contrary to the norms prescribed under the circulars. 111. The accused No.1 as a Branch Manager acted as per the

 norms and signed contracts with Coffee America and M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and termed as

 back to back contract. As stated earlier, it is not the

 individual decision of accused No.1, it was the decision of

 the Branch Advisory Committee. As per Ex.14 out of 36

 contracts with M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt.

 Ltd., 10 are in terms of seller. The incorporation of the

 word 'seller' in back to back contracts making STC has as

 seller is not foreign to coffee transaction and such terms

 have been accepted even earlier, knowing fully well the

 liability of STC in case of breach. 112. Even PW.16 has admitted that in respect of American

 buyers through STC they insist STC as the seller for the

 transaction. Ex. D14 and Ex.D16 support the say of

 PW.16. Therefore, the said contention of incorporation of

 STC as seller is not disputed by any of the witnesses.

 Hence, there is no merit in the contention of the

 prosecution regarding this allegation. 88 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 D) PRIOR APPROVAL OF COMPETENT AUTHORITY: 89 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 wherein the accused No.1 was empowered to enter into

 contract for export of coffee worth Rs. 3 Crores as a single

 contract and for more than the said amount, he was

 required to obtain the approval from the Corporate Office.

 He also mentions about the bad quality report from the

 New York buyer and ultimate settlement and payment of

 amount. 115. PW.15 Ms. Rita Kunur, Former Director, STC, New Delhi

 speaks about the fax message Ex.P22 from STC, New

 York, wherein she was requested to communicate to STC,

 Bengaluru to ensure prompt shipment and proper quality

 by M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., as such

 she had marked the same to PW.14 for communication to

 accused No.1 and accordingly that was so done. 116. As per the delegation of powers with effect from 1.3.1995

 issued from the Corporate Office, accused No.1 was having

 power to enter into contract for coffee export to the extent

 of Rs. 3 Crores for single contract. Therefore, there is no

 merit in the allegation that in respect of the present

 contract accused No.1 was required to obtain prior

 approval from the Corporate Office for payment of the

 amount to the shipper. 90 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 E) PRE-SHIPMENT INSPECTION OF COFFEE: shipment inspection by independent surveyors as most of

 the trade is conducted on self-certification and on mutual

 trust and they have between buyer and the seller. The

 pre-shipment inspection of independent surveyor is

 undertaken only in case where it is specifically stipulated

 on the contract and the cost of the same is inbuilt in price.

 However, in the indemnity clause in back to back contract

 with shipper STC's interest is protected. Notwithstanding

 this, STC, Bengaluru regularly notified party for

 maintaining the quality and shipment schedule. Therefore,

 this allegation is not substantiated by the prosecution

 against accused No.1. F) REJECTION OF COFFEE BY THE BUYER: 91 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 FCLs under contract 6651 and of 10 FCLs under contract

 6652 buyer rejected those 15 containers vide their

 messages of 4.8.2000 and 18.8.2000. It is further alleged

 that buyer informed that the goods shipped were full of

 dust, husk, blacks and bids and did not at all resemble

 with the quality contracted and the beans were unusable

 by them and have no commercial value. 119. The accused No.1 has admitted this allegation and alleged

 against the accused No.2 and 3 for the quality deficiency in

 those 15 FCLs. In this regard, it is pertinent to note the

 evidence of PW.16 N. Jeya Kumar who was Branch

 Manager, STC, New York. He has deposed that he

 received the enquiry from the New York buyer in March

 2000 and Ex.P5 is the aceptance by STC, Bengaluru to

 supply 30 containers of coffee and Ex.P6 is the

 confirmation by the New York buyer and Ex.P7 is the fax

 message from Bengaluru to New York, on the same day,

 confirming of 25 containers to the said buyer. Then he has

 deposed that after receiving the first consignment buyer at

 New York informed him stating that the quality of the

 coffee is not of the quality specified by him. Then he has

 conveyed the same to STC, Bengaluru and in turn STC,
 92 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bengaluru conveyed the same to M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. Then he has deposed about the

 rejection of shipment by the Coffee America intimation to

 him and claim for damages through arbitration. In the

 cross-examination of learned counsel for accused No.2 he

 has admitted that accused No.2 in all sent 5 consignment

 each 5 containers relating to contract No. 6651 and 6652

 to the buyer. Further, he has admitted that there was

 initial dispute between the buyer and the shipper in

 respect of consignment of contract No.6652. Further, he

 has admitted that against the contract No.6652, the buyer

 had agreed to retain 22% of the value and release

 remaining 78% of the value because it was letter of credit

 payment terms. He has further deposed that initially there

 was dispute in respect of contract No.6651 and the same

 was resolved. Further, he has admitted that when the

 dispute arose between the shipper and the buyer about the

 quality of the coffee supplied, he acted on the instructions

 of his superiors, STS, USA to value the quality but because

 of poor quality they did not agree to evaluate. 120. Secondly, looking to the evidence of PW.3 P.B. Malde has

 deposed that as per the instructions of accused No.1 on
 93 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 19.4.2000 himself and Jayaramulu went to White Field

 around 2 PM and draw the sample from the first

 consignment and returned to the office. Further, he has

 deposed on 20.4.2000 as per the instructions of accused

 No.1 himself and Smt. Shyamala Sharma took the sample

 drawn by them to Coffee Board for analysis. 121. The learned counsel for accused No.2 seriously doubted

 the evidence of PW.3. Considering the entire evidence of

 PW.3 he was working as Asst. Manager in STC, Bengaluru.

 He has acted as per the instructions of accused No.1 who

 was a Branch Manager. Looking to his consistent evidence

 deposed before the court, there are no reasons to doubt

 about his evidence or to discard his evidence. Whatever

 he has done on 19.4.2000 and 20.4.2000 has been

 deposed by him. Therefore, his evidence is supporting the

 case of the prosecution that on 19.4.2000 he went to ICD,

 White Field, draw the sample from the first consignment

 and on 20.4.2000 he went to Coffee Board and gave the

 sample for analysis. His evidence is supported from the

 evidence of the other witnesses. 122. PW.4 has deposed about the survey work done by him as

 an Asst. Surveyor of M/s. J.B. Boda & Company. 94 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 123. PW.5 M. Sudarshan has deposed about the offer and

 acceptance for the contract and how the contract was

 concluded. PW.6 N.V. Badarinath has deposed about the

 survey conducted by him at ICD, White Field. P.W.7 Aruna

 K.G. has also deposed about the survey work for

 consignment. PW.8 Saju V.J. has deposed about the

 survey work of consignment done by M/s. Metcalf &

 Hudkinsons Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. PW.9 Ashok has deposed

 about the survey work of consignment done by him on

 behalf of M/s. Metcalf & Hudkinsons Pvt. Ltd. PW.10 Sri.

 M.B. Somanna who was Superintendent of Custom has

 deposed about the checking of consignment for the

 purpose of export. PW.11 Ravi Shankar has deposed

 about the preparation of bill of lading and GR Form.

 PW.12 N. Surendra has deposed that they have provided

 the service of transporting the containers from ICD, White

 Field for exporting purpose at Chennai, Mumbai and

 Cochin. PW.13 has deposed about the preparation of bill

 of lading and GR form. 124. PW.14 has deposed that after receiving the goods at New

 York, the buyer raised objections for the quality and

 Branch Manager, STC, New York visited the warehouse as
 95 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 the buyer had personally informed them about the bad

 quality of the exported coffee. Then he has deposed that

 the foreign buyer did not accept the goods supplied and

 demanded for return of full funds already paid by him and

 for the damages. He has further deposed that he also

 issued notice and informed to go to arbitration

 proceedings. Then he has deposed that their Corporate

 Office realised that there is no merit in their favour to fight

 against the buyer before arbitrator and accordingly they

 entered into settlement with the buyer and agreed to

 repay the entire amount paid by him. 125. PW.16 has deposed about the receipt of Ex.P22 and

 communication and the same to STC, Bengaluru. PW.17

 has deposed about the rejection of coffee by the Coffee

 America and Settlement and payment of amount. PW.20

 has deposed about the production of Ex.P63 to 67 before

 the CBI. Then he has deposed about the procedure for

 loading the container, lock and checking at the destination

 point. PW.21 has deposed about the action taken against

 accused No.2 and 3. PW.22 has deposed about the

 settlement and payment of the amount to the buyer. 96 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 126. It is pertinent to note the contents of Ex.P24 letter dated

 28.8.2000 by Arbitration Administrator to STC, New York

 along with the statement of claim and payment for

 technical arbitration. In the said record, Ex.D44 has been

 got marked by the accused No.1. 127. Para No.17 to 20 of the said claim statement reads as

 follows: - This claim statement is pertaining to contract 6652. 97 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 128. Ex.P26 is the statement of claim and payment for

 Technical Arbitration in respect of Contract No.6651. Para

 No.17 to 20 of the said document reads as follows: - 129. Ex.P69 is the Settlement Agreement between Coffee

 America and STC, Bengaluru on 31.10.2000. In Ex.P69, it

 is mentioned as follows: - It is also mentioned about the payment in para-4 as

 follows: - This agreement has been signed by accused No.1 on

 behalf of STC, Bengaluru and President of Coffee America. 130. As per Ex.D13, accused No.1 wrote a letter to M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., on 9.8.2000 intimating

 the low quality of coffee and to show positive response for

 settlement. 99 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 131. Ex.D14 is the note for consideration of the board put up by

 pw.15 Ms. Rita Kunur, the Director, STC, New Delhi. In para No.5 it is mentioned as follows: - 132. Ex. D23 is the Branch opinion of entire issue wherein at

 para No.1, it is mentioned as follows: - 133. Ex.P23 has been signed by accused No.1. PW.2, 5 and

 other officers. Ex.D34 is the letter of accused No.1 to M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., on 20.4.2000. It
 100 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 is pertinent to note the contents of Ex.D34 which reads as

 follows: - Ex.D35 is the letter of PW.2 to STC, New York. 134. As seen from the evidence of the prosecution, Coffee

 America rejected 5 FCLs under Contract 6651 and all 10
 101 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 FCLs under Contract 6652 vide their messages on

 4.8.2000 and 18.8.2000. 135. It is the contention of accused No.2 and 3 that there is no

 mahazar for rejection of coffee by the buyer and no

 witnesses have been examined by the prosecution from

 the Coffee America to prove that they have rejected the

 coffee. Admittedly, there was a contract between the STC,

 Bengaluru and Coffee America through STC, New York and

 so also there was a contract between STC., Bengaluru,

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., when the

 coffee was exported how one can predict that it was of low

 quality and not as per the sample approved by the buyer.

 It is only after receiving the coffee at a destination point,

 the buyer examined the quality of the coffee and found

 that it was not in accordance with the sample approved by

 him, therefore he rejected the same. 136. When the export of coffee was based on the contract, it

 was not required to prepare the mahazar at the time of

 rejection of coffee. When the coffee was rejected, there

 was no criminal case registered either by the police or by

 the CBI to investigate into the matter. When the accused

 No.2 and 3 did not come forward for effective settlement,
 102 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 then only the complaint came to be lodged before the

 police by accused No.1 and his Finance Manager.

 Thereafter, STC., Bengaluru settled the matter with Coffee

 America and paid the amount to it. Therefore, there is no

 merit in the contention of accused No.2 and 3 that the

 mahazar was not prepared at the destination point for

 rejection of coffee by the buyer. 137. It is further contended by the accused No.2 and 3 that the

 buyer had not informed them directly about rejection of

 coffee and not made any correspondence with them.

 Therefore, the rejection of coffee by the buyer was not

 within their knowledge. 138. When the back to back contract was between the Coffee

 America, STC, Bengaluru and STC., Bengaluru and accused

 No.2 and 3 the contention of accused No.2 and 3 that the

 Coffee America has not informed them about the dispute

 of quality of coffee has no merit. 139. When the coffee was received at Jacksonville, Florida, the

 buyer on verifying the quality of the coffee rejected it. It

 is not proper on the part of the accused No.2 and 3 to say

 that the prosecution has not examined the witness from

 America to prove the rejection of coffee. The prosecution
 103 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 has placed ample evidence to prove that the Buyer Coffee

 America looking to the serious quality deficiencies rejected

 the coffee. Therefore, the evidence brought before the

 court is sufficient to prove that the Buyer Coffee America

 rejected the 15 FCLs coffee exported by M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. G) QUALITY OF COFFEE EXPORTED: 104 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 sample of the coffee and on next day he had taken the

 coffee sample to coffee analysist for analysis and to know

 the quality of the coffee. As stated earlier, there are no

 reason to disbelieve the evidence of PW.3 who was in the

 cadre of Asst. Manager in STC, Bengaluru and working in

 the coffee division. 142. Apart from the evidence of PW.3, the prosecution has

 mainly relied upon the evidence of PW.18 Dr. K. Basavaraj,

 Head of Coffee Quality, Coffee Board, Bengaluru. He has

 deposed that since 23 years he has been working in Coffee

 Board, Bengaluru and presently he is Head of Coffee

 Quality and he is coffee quality expert and analysing the

 quality of the coffee and certifying quality of coffee for

 domestic market and export market. Then he has deposed

 that Ex.P17 to P21 are the reports given by him after

 analysing the physical coffee quality parameters for

 moisture contents, defects, grade specifications and

 presence and absence of foreign matters. Then he has

 deposed that Ex.P17 to P21 are issued for physical

 standard and moister contents. Then he has deposed that

 Ex.P75 is one more quality evaluation report issued by him

 after analysing the sample of coffee. Further, he has
 105 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 deposed that all the samples analysed by him in this case

 were sent by STC., Bengaluru in a sealed pack and those

 sealed packs were opened in his presence, STC Officers

 and Scientists of Quality Lab and samples were analysed

 and deviations were noticed and the same are mentioned

 in his reports. 143. Accused No.1 has not disputed the evidence of PW.18 and

 the reports given by him. Accused No.2 and 3 have

 disputed the reports but they are not able to substantiate

 to disbelieve the evidence of PW.18 and the reports given

 by him as per Ex.P17 to P21 and P75. 144. As seen from the entire evidence of PW.18, he is working

 in the coffee board since 23 years and he is an expert in

 analysing the Quality of Coffee. Looking to his experience,

 there are no reasons to discard or disbelieve his evidence.

 When he is an officer of the Coffee Board, analysed the

 samples of coffee and given his report without any

 sufficient reason, his evidence and reports cannot be

 disbelieved. Therefore, the evidence of PW.18 is fully

 supporting the case of the prosecution and proves that he

 has analysed the quality of coffee and given his reports as
 106 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 per Ex.P17 to 21 and Ex.P75. His evidence is also proving

 the contents of Ex.P17 to 21 and P75. 145. Now coming to the coffee Quality Evaluation Reports

 Ex.P17 to 21 and P75, it is proved that from time to time

 the samples were analysed by PW.18 and the quality of

 coffee exported was of inferior quality and not as per the

 sample approved by the buyer at USA. On perusal of

 Ex.P17, it is mentioned that the physical quality rating of

 the sample was below average. Why the quality of the

 coffee was below average has been mentioned in Ex.P17.

 Therefore, Ex.P17 dated 20.4.2000 proves that even from

 the first container, the quality exported was below

 average. Ex.P18 is the letter of PW.18 to STC., Bengaluru

 dated 21.9.2000. It is pertinent to note the contents of

 Ex.P18 which reads as follows: - " The 3 (three) sealed coffee samples
 weighing 1 (one) Kg. each received from M/s.
 H&M Warehousing of Jacksonville, INC, 2101
 West 33rd Street, Jacksonville, Florida - 32209-
 0028 and 1(one) Control Sample of Arabica
 Cherry Bulk which was sent to buyer for
 approval were handed over to the Quality
 Control Division, Coffee Board, Bengaluru by
 Mrs. Shyamala Sharma, Asst. Manager (Mktg)
 and Shri P.B. Malde, Asst. Manager (Marketing)
 of State Trading Corporation of India,
 Bengaluru. 107 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 The sealed samples are opened before the
 above representatives of STC and also in
 presence of the Deputy Director (QC) and the
 Asst. Coffee Marketing Officer (QC) besides the
 order scientific staff of this Division. The
 samples were analyzed and the evaluation
 reports are enclosed herewith. The samples were analyzed against the
 Control Sample of Arabica Cherry Bulk. The
 3(three) samples received were not identified to
 the Control Sample and are identified as
 Robusta Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1341), Robusta
 Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1344) and mix of Arabica
 and Robusta Cherry Bulk (B/L No.1325). The detailed 4(four) evaluation reports are
 enclosed herewith." 146. Ex.P18 is pertaining to analysis of coffee sample in respect

 of Contract No.P6651 and P6652. It is mentioned that

 three sealed coffee samples weighing 1 Kg., each were

 received from M/s. H & M Warehousing at Jacksonville,

 Florida and one control sample of Arabica Cherry Bulk

 which was sent to buyer for approval were send to Coffee

 Board for analysis. Ex.P19 is the Quality Evaluation Report

 dated 18.9.2000 in respect of contract No.6652. In

 Ex.P19, it is mentioned that analysis of the sample

 received from M/s. H & M Warehousing at Jacksonville,

 Florida was analysed. In this report, it is opined that

 physical quality of coffee "Very Poor Quality found to

 contain Robusta Cherry Bulk coffees". 108 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 147. Ex.P20 is the Quality Evaluation Report dated 18.9.2000

 pertaining to a Contract No.6651. In this report, it is

 mentioned that analysis of the sample received from M/s.

 H & M Warehousing, Jacksonville, Florida was analysed.

 The physical quality of the coffee is mentioned as "Very

 Poor Quality Admixture of Arabica Cherry and Robusta

 Cherry coffees". 148. Ex.P21 is the Quality Evaluation Report dated 18.9.2000. In this report, it is mentioned that analysis of the control

 sample retained by M/s. State Trading Corporation of India

 Ltd., Bengaluru. In this report, the physical quality of

 coffee is mentioned as "Fair Average Plus". 149. Ex.P75 is another Quality Evaluation Report dated

 18.9.2000 pertaining to Contract No.6652. In this report,

 it is mentioned that analysis of the sample received from H

 & M Warehousing at Jacksonville, Florida was analysed. In

 this report, physical quality of coffee is mentioned as Very

 Poor Quality. 150. The evidence of the prosecution proves that how the

 quality of coffee was sub-standard in respect of coffee

 exported by M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.

 When Coffee America insisted the STC, Bengaluru as a
 109 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 seller and entered into a contract for supply of coffee how

 the Coffee America can have a correspondence with M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. Though the

 contract was back to back, the buyer will only make the

 seller as responsible for the quality. There are several

 correspondences between the Coffee America and STC.,

 Bengaluru and STC., New York to show that the quality of

 coffee was not as per the sample approved by the buyer. 151. PW.16 N. Jeya Kumar who was at New York has

 consistently deposed how the quality of coffee was of

 inferior quality. Then he has deposed that the buyer

 rejected the consignment and told to go to arbitration and

 to recover the amount and damages. PW.16 who was

 working at STC., New York visited the Warehousing, saw

 the material and his evidence is an acceptable evidence by

 the court. He was the Branch Manager, STC., New York

 working for the STC., and there are no reason to disbelieve

 his evidence in the matter. 152. PW.17 GD Pushparaj has also deposed about the rejection

 of coffee, quality deficiency and settlement of matter.

 Even the officers from Corporate Office have deposed

 about the rejection of coffee by the buyer due to inferior
 110 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 quality of coffee. Therefore, the evidence of the

 prosecution is acceptable and proving the rejection of

 coffee by the buyer coffee America as the coffee supplied

 in respect of 15 FCLs was of sub-standard and intimated

 the same to the concerned. H) SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM & PAYMENT OF AMOUNT: 111 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 related to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.

 Then he has deposed that as per Ex.P24 Green Coffee

 Association, New York addressed a letter to STC., New

 York on 28.8.2000 intimating initiating arbitration

 proceedings and damages because of inferior quality

 coffee. Then he has deposed that Ex.P25 is the fax

 message from Coffee America to STC, New York dated

 14.8.2000 stating that the matter would be settled out of

 arbitration in case of amount of US$ 99,200 is paid to

 them. Then he has deposed that the original arbitration

 notice issued by Convey & Convey Attorney for claimant is

 Ex.P26. 155. Then considering the evidence of PW.14 P. Kumar has

 deposed that the buyer did not accept the goods supplied

 and demanded for return of full fund already paid by him

 and for damages. The buyer issued notice and informed to

 go to Arbitration Proceedings. Their corporate office

 realised that there is no merit in their favour to fight

 against the buyer before arbitrator and accordingly they

 entered into a settlement with buyer and agreed to repay

 the entire amount paid by him. Accordingly STC.,

 Bengaluru has paid US$ 2,65,000 (Rs.1.25 Crores) to
 112 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 buyer M/s. Coffee America and Ex.69 is the settlement

 agreement. On perusal of Ex.69 it is a settlement

 agreement between Coffee America and STC., Bengaluru

 and STC., Bengaluru agreed to pay a sum of US$2,65,000. 156. Then considering the evidence of PW.16 N. Jeya Kumar, he

 has deposed that, he has actually settled the matter with

 the permission of Corporate office. He has deposed that

 the Buyer Coffee America informed the STC., New York

 about the inferior quality of coffee supplied to them and

 they would go to arbitration for the loss incurred by them.

 The matter was taken to STC., New Delhi, STC, Bengaluru

 and with their consent they decided to go for settlement

 outside the arbitration and accordingly there was

 settlement and agreement was signed between STC.,

 Bengaluru and Coffee America as per Ex.P69. As per the

 settlement, the Govt. of India agreed to pay US$ 2,65,000

 to the Buyer Coffee America on or before 30.11.2000.

 Accordingly, after obtaining permission from the Reserve

 Bank of India, STC., Bengaluru made the payment directly

 to Coffee America. 157. Looking to the evidence of PW.17 G.D. Pushparaj has

 deposed that M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. 113 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Ltd., negotiated shipping documents and obtained

 payment from Syndicate Bank pertaining to Contract

 No.6651 and 6652 as allowed in the letter of credit after

 shipment. Since the coffee supplied by the shipper was of

 inferior quality, the buyer made the claim from STC.,

 Bengaluru for the payment. Immediately after receiving

 the complaint from the foreign buyer they called the

 shipper and enquired as to why they have supplied the

 inferior quality of coffee to the buyer. Since the main

 contract was between STC Bengaluru and the buyer, the

 settlement was to be settled immediately and accordingly

 the settlement was arrived for payment of US$ 2,65,000.

 Then STC had obtained the permission from RBI and paid

 the amount to the buyer. 158. Looking to the evidence of PW.21 who was Chief Legal

 Advisor in STC, Corporate Office, New Delhi has deposed

 about the filing of complaint before the police, damages

 claimed by the buyer and the settlement of damages for

 US$2,65,000. 159. Lastly, looking to the evidence of PW.22, he has deposed

 that they received letter from the Head Office for making

 the payment as per Ex.P91. Then they obtained
 114 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 permission from Reserve Bank of India for making

 payment as per Ex.P92. Then they submitted letter to

 State Bank of India, Overseas Branch, Bengaluru

 requesting for issuing of Demand Draft for payment to the

 buyer as per Ex.P93. Then they obtained Demand Draft as

 per Ex.P94 and bank advise sent to the buyer is Ex.P95.

 Then they received confirmation receipt of amount from

 the buyer as per Ex.P96 and letter of the buyer admitting

 the settlement and withdrawal of arbitration case as per

 Ex.P97. 160. In the present case, the above witnesses have consistently

 deposed about the buyer issuing notice, approaching for

 arbitration, decision of STC., to settle the matter outside

 the arbitration, settlement and payment of amount to the

 buyer by the STC, Bengaluru. Since the STC is a Govt. of

 India undertaking, the amount has been paid by the Govt.

 of India. On behalf of the Govt. of India, the Reserve Bank

 of India has accorded permission. As per the permission,

 the DD was obtained and sent to the buyer. The buyer

 acknowledged the receipt of the amount and withdraw the

 arbitration proceedings initiated by him against STC.,
 115 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bengaluru. As a result of the settlement, the Govt. of

 India had incurred loss of Rs.1.25 Crores (US$2,65,000). 161. It is the main contention of accused No.2 and 3 that the

 settlement was arrived behind their back, without making

 them as a party to the said settlement. It is pertinent to

 note that the witnesses have deposed that the primary

 contract for supply of coffee was between STC., Bengaluru

 and Coffee America. When the primary contract was

 between the STC., Bengaluru and Coffee America, the

 question of buyer issuing notice, intimating and making

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., as a party

 to the arbitration proceeding and settlement does not

 arise. It was STC., which was mainly concerned as a seller

 clause in the agreement, for due performance of contract

 as per the agreement. 162. Therefore, the STC., struggled to arrive to a settlement

 within the time and paid the damages to the buyer as per

 the settlement Ex.P69. The STC., Bengaluru has from

 time to time called upon and intimated M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., about the inferior quality of

 coffee supplied and buyer has gone to arbitration and to

 come forward for positive settlement. 116 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 163. The accused No.2 and 3 who are the Managing Director

 and Chairman of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt.

 Ltd., have not come forward and not shown any inclination

 to go for settlement. Looking to the evidence forthcoming

 before the court there is no justification on the part of the

 accused No.2 and 3 to contend that the settlement was

 behind their back. Hence, the STC., has taken proper

 timely decision to settle the matter outside the arbitration,

 paid the amount to the buyer, who accepted the amount

 and withdrawn the arbitration proceedings. If the STC.,

 contested the arbitration proceedings instituted by the

 buyer, the amount liable to be paid by the STC., would

 have been much more. Due to timely settlement, the

 reasonable amount has been paid to the buyer by the

 STC., Bengaluru. I) REGARDING CIVIL SUIT: 164. It is an admitted fact that STC., Bengaluru represented by

 accused No.1 as a Branch Manager instituted O.S. No.

 15412/2001 before the City Civil Court, Bengaluru against

 M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and

 accused No.2 and 3 for recovery of Rs.1,25,63,048/- along

 with future interest. In the said suit, defendants 1 to 3
 117 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 appeared before the court through their learned counsel.

 After the trial, the said suit came to be decreed on

 4.1.2010. It is pertinent to note the reasons recorded by

 the court in the judgment. The court has come to the

 conclusion that the coffee supplied by M/s. Kaycee Coffee

 & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., was of inferior quality and STC.,

 Bengaluru is entitled for recovery of the amount paid by it

 to the buyer. PW.2, 14 and 21 have deposed about the

 institution of the suit and decreeing of the suit against M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., and present

 accused No.2 and 3. It is admitted that the Execution

 Proceedings for execution of decree passed in the said suit

 is still pending. J) REGARDING SANCTION: examination to disbelieve his evidence. It is not disputed

 that he being the Chairman & Managing Director of STC.,

 Corporate Office, New Delhi was appointing and removing

 authority of accused No.1. As per his evidence by applying

 his mind he has accorded sanction as per Ex.P77. 167. The learned Special Public Prosecutor has relied upon a

 decision reported in 2002 SCC (Cri) 564 in the case of Shivendra Kumar vs. State of Maharashtra , wherein it

 has been held as follows: - Therefore, the sanction order Ex.P77 is valid in the eye of

 law. 119 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 K) MAINTAINABILITY OF FIR REGISTERED: 120 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 170. It is the defence of accused No.2 and 3 that FIR registered

 by CBI as per Ex.P76 is not maintainable. It is the

 contention of the prosecution that the first FIR and FIR

 registered by the CBI were for different offences and such

 FIR cannot be said as not maintainable. It is an admitted

 fact that on 26.8.2000, on the complaint lodged by

 accused No.1 along with his Finance Manager a criminal

 case came to be registered by Cubbon Park Police,

 Bengaluru in Crime No.343/2000 for the offences

 punishable u/s 406, 420 r/w Sec. 120-B of IPC., and

 investigation was undertaken. It is further admitted that

 on the source of information, CBI registered a case in RC

 No. 22(A)/2003 on 26.9.2003 and investigated the matter.

 The CBI registered a case against accused No.1 who was a

 Branch Manager and Head of Coffee Division, STC.,

 Bangalore, a public servant and accused No.2 and 3 who

 are the Managing Director and Chairman of M/s. Kaycee

 Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., for the offences

 punishable u/s 120B , 420 of IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w sec.

 13(1)(d) of PC Act, 1988. It is further admitted that when

 the CBI registered a case, the Cubbon Park Police have not

 submitted final report before the concerned court. 121 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 171. It is deposed by the Investigating Officer in the present

 case that after registering a criminal case, he has collected

 the records from the Cubbon Park Police. 172. The learned counsel for accused No.2 and 3 relied upon

 the principles of the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Upkar Singh vs. Ved Prakash and others dated 10.9.2004 in Appeal (Crl.) 411/2002 wherein it has

 been held as follows: - 173. Then the learned counsel for accused No2. and 3 relied

 upon the principles of the judgment rendered by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in T.T. Antony vs. State of

 Kerala and others dated 12.7.2001 in Appeal (Crl.)
 122 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 689 of 2001 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as

 follows: - 174. In TT Anthony case referred above , the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court held that "The course adopted in this case, namely

 the registration of the information as the 2nd FIR in regard

 to the same incident and making a fresh investigation is

 not permissible under the scheme of the provisions of the Cr.P.C ., therefore the investigation undertaken and the

 report thereof cannot but be invalid". 175. In Upkar Singh case referred above , the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has considered the principles laid down in Kari

 Choudhary (2002 (1) SCC Page 714) wherein it was held

 that when there are rival versions in respect of the same

 episode, they would normally take the shape of two

 different FIR and investigation can be carried on under

 both of them by the same Investigating Agency. Even that
 123 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 apart, the report submitted to the court styling it as FIR

 No.208/1998 need be considered as information submitted

 to the court regarding the new discovery made by the

 police during investigation that persons not named in FIR

 No.135 are the real culprits. 176. In the present case, the allegations made in the complaint

 of accused No.1 and his Finance Manager were against

 accused No.2 and 3 and others. Subsequently, CBI

 registered a case against the accused No.1 who filed a

 complaint before State Police in Cubbon Park Police

 Station, Bangalore and accused No.2 and 3 who are the

 Managing Director and Chairman of M/s. Kaycee Coffee &

 Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd. The Cubbon Park Police registered

 a case for offences under Sections 406, 420 r/w Sec. 120-

 B of IPC. The CBI registered a case against the public

 servant Accused No.1 and two others for the offences

 punishable u/s 120B, r/w 420 IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w

 13(1)(d) of PC Act . 177. Admittedly, Cubbon Park Police have no power to

 investigate for the offences under Prevention of Corruption

 Act . The CBI is competent to investigate the offences

 under the Prevention of Corruption Act . When the CBI
 124 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 registered a case against the public servant, accused No.1

 and two others for the offences under IPC and the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, it cannot be said that the FIR

 registered by the CBI is not maintainable. 178. I have gone through the facts and principles in the

 decisions rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and

 relied upon by the learned counsel for accused No.2 and 3,

 the facts of that case were entirely different and in that

 context, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the 2nd FIR

 is not maintainable. The principles laid down in the above

 decisions cannot be applied to the facts of the present case

 and investigation done by the CBI. 179. It is pertinent to note that as per Ex.P79, the Govt. of

 Karnataka in pursuance of the provisions contained in Sec.6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946

 r/w sec. 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 accorded

 consent to the extension of powers and jurisdiction to the

 members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment for

 registration of the case and investigation of the present

 case by the CBI against accused No.1 and others.

 Thereafter, as per Ex.P80, in exercise of the powers under

 sub section (1) of Sec. 5 r/w Sec. 6 of the Delhi Special
 125 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Police Establishment Act, 1946 the Govt. of India has

 issued notification authorising the CBI and conferring the

 powers and jurisdiction of Members of the Delhi Special

 Police Establishment to the whole of State of Karnataka for

 investigation of the present case. 180. Based on the authority and powers as per Ex.P79 and 80,

 the CBI investigated the matter and placed the charge

 sheet before this court against accused No.1 to 3.

 Therefore, there is no merit in the contention of accused

 No.2 and 3 that the FIR registered by the CBI is not

 maintainable. L) CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY: 181. Based on the above aspects, now I will proceed to consider

 the alleged offences by the prosecution one after the

 other. In this regard, firstly I will consider the allegations

 of criminal conspiracy alleged against the accused No.1 to 3. 182. In his evidence, PW-1 has deposed that there were series

 of complaints against accused No.2 and 3 alleging that

 they have exported items other than the declared ones for

 getting permission. In that regard, STC., approached the

 coffee board with the complaint against accused No.2 and
 126 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 3. On the basis of the complaint, the coffee board

 intimated the same to accused No.2 and 3 and as there

 were no proper response from them, the board was

 constrained to cancel their Registration with the coffee

 board during 2000. 183. PW.2 has deposed about the correspondence between

 STC., Bengaluru and M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports

 Pvt. Ltd., from time to time. PW.4 has deposed about the

 survey work conducted by them. PW.5 has deposed about

 the contract. PW.6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and PW.13 have

 deposed about their respective survey and locking of the

 container. When the container was properly put to one

 time lock and opened at destination there was no chance

 for anyone to intermediate with the container and bags

 containing the coffee exported by accused No.2 and 3.

 When the STC., Bengaluru came to know that the first

 consignment coffee was not as per the sample approved

 by the buyer immediately brought it to the notice of M/s.

 Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru as per

 Ex.P14. Further, a request was made to maintain the

 quality of the coffee to be exported as per the sample

 approved by the buyer. Further, informed to give
 127 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 intimation to the STC., Bengaluru about the readiness of

 the stock for shipment before stuffing. Further, it was

 informed that an official from STC., Bengaluru would visit

 ICD, White Field, Bengaluru to draw the composite lot

 sample from the bags. 184. The evidence of the witnesses relied upon by the

 prosecution and the documents prove that the dispute

 arose for the quality of the coffee from the first

 consignment itself in respect of both contracts. The buyer

 accepted the first consignment by reducing the price of the

 coffee to some extent. The witnesses have deposed that

 the accused No.2 and 3 sent subsequent consignments

 without intimating them inspite of their specific instructions

 to intimate them. There is no evidence forthcoming to

 show that accused No.2 and 3 informed the STC.,

 Bengaluru for further consignment and to depute an official

 to draw the sample. 185. Ex.P16 proves that immediately after receiving the quality

 analysis report from the Coffee Board, the same was

 informed to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 Bengaluru. In Ex.D14, it is mentioned that the suppliers

 committed a fraud in connivance with various agencies. It
 128 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 is further mentioned that the eagle eyes of Customs, Port

 Authorities, C & F Agents, Shipping Lines etc., also could

 not detect this fraud. In Ex.D15, it is mentioned that

 massive fraud has been committed by a shipper for the

 last 5 FCLs in respect of Contract No.6651 and 10 FCLs in

 respect of Contract No.6652. Ex.D17 to 20 shows the

 efforts made by accused No.1. In Ex.D23, it is mentioned

 that the shipper has committed a total and massive fraud

 in the contract. 186. The accused No.1 being a public servant has made all

 possible efforts to safeguard the interest of STC. Looking

 to the contracts, business of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., the STC., Bengaluru awarded the

 contract to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt. Ltd.,

 for Contract No.6651 and 6652 hoping that they were

 capable to supply the quantity required and as per the

 quality approved by the buyer. None of the witnesses

 examined by the prosecution have deposed before the

 court anything against the accused No.1. None of the

 witnesses have deposed that accused No.1 has shown any

 favour or colluded with accused No.2& 3 who are Managing

 Director and Chairman of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices
 129 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., in respect of contract No.6651 and 6652.

 Absolutely, no evidence to establish that the accused No.1

 has conspired with accused No.2 and 3 in respect of the

 present transaction. 187. It was the duty casted on the accused No.2 and 3 to

 perform the contract by supplying good quality coffee as

 per the sample approved by the buyer. Though, they have

 been awarded a bulk contract for supply of coffee to the

 buyer since the date of back to back contract they are not

 diligent and involved in doing the illegal acts. The

 witnesses have deposed the manner in which accused No.2

 and 3 have failed to supply the coffee as per the sample

 approved by the buyer and supplied inferior quality coffee

 from the first consignment till the last one. The accused

 No.2 and 3 hatched a plan to supply inferior quality of

 coffee to the buyer taking undue advantage of the back to

 back contract and naming them as shipper in the said

 contract. When accused No.2 and 3 are the Managing

 Director and Chairman of M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices

 Exports Pvt. Ltd., they were doing the business on behalf

 of the said company and looking after all the affairs of the

 said company. Therefore, the evidence proves their
 130 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 meeting of mind for each and every decision and action

 taken by them for supply of coffee as per the contract.

 When the accused No.2 and 3 have hatched conspiracy

 with their meeting of mind secretly in such situations, it is

 difficult to get the direct evidence to establish their

 criminal conspiracy. Under such circumstances the

 criminal conspiracy can be proved by placing

 circumstantial evidence. Based on the circumstantial

 evidence placed before the court an agreement in between

 accused No.2 and 3 to do an illegal act can be very well

 inferred. So also, a presumption can be drawn from the

 facts of the present case, how accused No.2 and 3 made

 up their mind to supply an inferior quality of coffee to an

 overseas buyer i.e., Coffee America by their illegal act.

 Therefore, the facts, evidence and circumstances are

 sufficient to prove the ingredients of the offence of criminal

 conspiracy against accused No.2 and 3. M) CHEATING: 131 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 prosecution has examined the officers from STC.,

 Bengaluru, officers from STC., New Delhi and Branch

 Manager of STC., New York and none of them have

 whispered that in the transaction accused No.1 has acted

 fraudulently and dishonestly. The evidence placed before

 the court proves that though the contract was awarded to

 accused No.2 and 3, the accused No.1 was struggling for

 the due performance of contract by the accused No.2 and

 3 and for supply of coffee as per the sample approved by

 the buyer to protect the reputation of STC., in the eye of

 American buyer. At each and every stage, he has acted

 diligently and taken proper decision. He has acted as per

 the directions of Corporate Office, followed the norms

 prescribed for back to back contract and nothing malafide

 can be attributed to him in the present contracts. When he

 came to know that coffee supplied for the first

 consignment was not in accordance with the sample

 approved by the buyer, he has taken all steps to maintain

 the quality of coffee for further consignment by intimating

 accused No.2 and 3. 189. PW.15 Ms. Rita Kunur who was Director, STC., New Delhi

 has admitted that, the accused No.1 who was the Branch
 132 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Manager, STC., Bengaluru had punctually obeyed the

 instructions issued by her from time to time. The Director

 of STC., New Delhi has not made any remarks against the

 decisions taken by accused No.1 in the present contract.

 Looking to the attitude of the accused No.2 and 3, the

 officers of STC., including the accused No.1 have made all

 efforts to save the reputation of STC., who was in seller

 term in the contract. Nothing is forthcoming against

 accused No.1 to show his involvement, fraudulent and

 dishonest intention and causing loss to STC., by his acts. 190. The prosecution has established that even in the first

 consignment there was dispute for the quality of coffee.

 The evidence further proves that even in the first

 consignment, the quality of coffee supplied by the accused

 No.2 and 3 was not satisfactory one. Inspite of it, the

 buyer accepted the supply of coffee by making deduction

 in the price. The same was brought to the notice of

 accused No.2 and 3 and requested them to maintain the

 quality in the future consignments. Accused No.2 and 3

 did not follow the instructions of accused No.1. They have

 straight away supplied future consignments to the buyer

 even without bringing to the knowledge of STC., Bengaluru
 133 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 and allowing the STC., to make inspection and to draw the

 samples. The analysis reports prove that an inferior

 quality of coffee was supplied by the accused No.2 and 3

 to Coffee America. When the Coffee America rejected the

 consignment, STC., had no other go except to settle the

 matter and accordingly settled the matter outside the

 arbitration and paid the amount to the buyer. By the act of

 accused No.2 and 3, STC., Bengaluru which is a Govt. of

 India undertaking suffered loss of Rs.1.25 crores during

 2000. As per the evidence of the witnesses, it is proved

 that the accused No.2 and 3 did not respond promptly for

 settlement, did not come forward to pay the amount to the

 buyer and they disappeared from their place of business. 191. Looking to the evidence of the prosecution, it is proved

 that accused No.2 and 3 by their fraudulent and dishonest

 intention supplied inferior quality of coffee to the American

 buyer and received the payment from the buyer. By

 supplying inferior quality of coffee accused No.2 and 3

 received the payment from time to time from the buyer

 knowing fully well that their act was dishonest and

 fraudulent one. 134 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 192. It is deposed by the witnesses that due to the act of

 accused No.2 and 3 STC., had lost its reputation in

 American Market. STC., Bengaluru hoping and trusting

 accused No.2 and 3 entrusted bulk supply of coffee to

 them. Accused No.2 and 3 instead of supplying coffee as

 per the sample approved by the buyer supplied inferior

 quality of coffee and their act certainly lowered the

 reputation of the STC., in the eyes of international market. 193. It has come in the evidence of the witnesses that due to

 the act of Accused No.2 and 3 STC., lost their coffee

 export business and ultimately they wind up their coffee

 business at US Market. 194. Section 415 of IPC defines cheating which reads as

 follows: - 135 Spl.C.C.29/05 J 195. Section 420 of IPC reads as follows: - For Section 420, it is necessary that accused should not

 only cheat but he must induce to deliver any property as

 well. 196. The learned counsel for the accused No.2 and 3

 vehemently argued that there is a damage clause in the

 agreement. Therefore, the matter is of civil in nature and

 it will not constitute an offence u/s 420 IPC. He further

 argued that to constitute an offence of cheating there must

 be a fraudulent and dishonest intention at the inception of

 the contract. 197. In support of his arguments, the learned counsel for

 accused No.2 and 3 placed reliance on the principles of

 judgment rendered by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

 in Criminal Appeal No. 1868/2011 wherein the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court held that: - In the said decision in para-11, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

has referred to the principles laid down in Madhavrao

Jiwajirao Scindia & Ors., vs. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao

Angre & Ors. (1998) 1 SCC 692,

 "this Court, after pointing out the grounds on
 which the criminal proceedings be quashed under
 Section 482 of the Code at preliminary stage by the
 High Court highlighted that a case of breach of trust
 is both a civil wrong and a criminal offence. While
 elaborating the same, this Court further held that
 there would be certain situations where it would
 predominantly be a civil wrong and may or may not
 amount to criminal offence. Based on the materials
 in that case, the court concluded that the case is one
 of that type where, if at all, the facts may constitute
 a civil wrong and the ingredients of the criminal
 offences are wanting. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India referred to the

principles of decisions in Nagawwa vs. Veeranna

Shivalingappa Koujalagi , ( 1976) 3 SCC 736 and State of

Haryana vs. Bahajan Lal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, this

Court concluded thus: 138 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 10 ...... The injury alleged may form the basis of civil
 claim and may also constitute the ingredients of some
 crime punishable under criminal law. When there is
 dispute between the parties arising out of a
 transaction involving passing of valuable properties
 between them, the aggrieved person may have a right
 to sue for damages or compensation and at the same
 time, law permits the victim to proceed against the
 wrongdoer for having committed an offence of criminal
 breach of trust or cheating. Here the main offence
 alleged by the appellant is that the respondents
 committed the offence under Section 420 IPC and the
 case of the appellant is that the respondents have
 cheated him and thereby dishonestly induced him to
 deliver property. To deceive is to induce a man to
 believe that a thing is true which is false and which
 the person practising the deceit knows or believes to
 be false. It must also be shown that there was fraud
 or dishonest inducement on the part of the
 respondents and thereby the respondents parted with
 the property. It is trite law and common sense that
 an honest man entering into a contract is deemed to
 represent that he accepted the pecuniary advantage
 involved in the transaction, he fails to pay his debt, he
 does not necessarily evade the debt by deception. 198. I have gone through the facts and principles laid down in the above decisions rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. The facts of that case were entirely different. The

 facts and allegations of the present case are entirely

 different. The present transaction and acts of accused No.2

 and 3 cannot be termed as a civil in nature. By agreeing

 to supply the coffee accused No.2 and 3 have supplied the

 inferior quality of coffee and received the amount from the

 buyer and caused loss of Rs.1.25 Crores to the Govt. of
 139 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 India. Therefore, the allegations of the present case

 constitute not only a civil wrong but also an offence under

 criminal law. The evidence of the prosecution proves that

 since the date of contract and supply of first consignment

 the accused No.2 and 3 had fraudulent and dishonest

 intention. The evidence further proves that they continued

 the said intention till the last consignment to the foreign

 buyer. They have done the supply of inferior quality of

 coffee from the beginning till the end with fraudulent and

 dishonest intention. Therefore, the act of accused No.2

 and 3 amounts to deceiving the STC., Bengaluru and the

 ingredients of Sec. 415 of IPC are well established in the

 present case. Further, the accused No.2 and 3 by their

 cheating have obtained the amount from the foreign buyer

 and caused loss to STC., Bengaluru and their act attracts

 of the ingredients of Section 420 IPC. Hence, I answer

 Point No.1 and 2 partly in the affirmative against accused

 No.2 and 3 only. 199. POINT NO.3: - 200. Thirdly, it is alleged by the prosecution that accused No.1

 being a public servant has committed criminal misconduct. 140 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 There is no evidence of the prosecution forthcoming to

 prove that the accused No.1 being a public servant by

 corrupt or illegal means, by abusing his position as a public

 servant obtained any valuable thing or pecuniary

 advantage for himself or for any other person or shown

 any official favour to accused No.2 and 3. None of the

 witnesses have deposed that in the present transaction

 accused No.1 has acted against the norms and shown any

 official favour to M/s. Kaycee Coffee & Spices Exports Pvt.

 Ltd., represented by accused No.2 and 3. Therefore, no

 evidence is forthcoming to prove that accused No.1 has

 committed criminal misconduct. Therefore, the

 prosecution has utterly failed to prove the allegations of

 criminal misconduct against accused No.1. Hence, I answer

 Point No.3 in the negative. 201. POINT No.4: - The prosecution has established beyond all

 reasonable doubt that accused No.2 and 3 have entered

 into a criminal conspiracy and in furtherance of their

 criminal conspiracy cheated the STC., Bengaluru, a Govt.,

 of India undertaking in respect of contract No. 6651 and

 6652. The act of accused No.2 and 3 amounts to an

 offence u/s 120B and 420 of IPC. Hence, the accused No.2
 141 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 and 3 are found guilty for the offence u/s 120B and 420 of

 IPC. Hence, I proceed to pass the following

 ORDER

 Acting under Section 235(1) of Cr.P.C., Accused No.1
 Dr. R.B. Saha is hereby acquitted for the offence
 punishable u/s 120-B r/w 420 IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w sec.
 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Acting under Section 235(2) of Cr.P.C., Accused
 No.2 K.C. Santosh and Accused No.3 Manjunath
 Davanagere are convicted for the offences punishable u/s
 120-B and 420 of IPC. To hear regarding sentence of accused No.2 and 3.

(Dictated to the Judgment Writer, transcribed by him, revised by
me personally and incorporated additional paragraphs directly on
computer, corrected and then pronounced by me in the Open
Court on this the 9th day of November 2015)

 (BHEEMANAGOUDA K. NAIK)
 XXI Addl.City Civil and Sessions Judge
 And Prl. Special Judge for CBI Cases,
 Bengaluru City. ORDER REGARDING SENTENCE

 Heard learned Special Public Prosecutor for CBI, learned

counsel for accused No.2 and 3 and accused No.2 and 3

regarding the sentence. 142 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 The learned Special Public Prosecutor for CBI submitted

that looking to the gravity of the offences, a maximum sentence

may be ordered against accused No.2 and 3. The learned counsel for accused No.2 submitted that

accused No.2 is a young man, has got two small children,

unemployed wife and old age sick mother and lost his father and

only earning member in the family and lenient view may be

taken in imposing the sentence. Accused No.2 personally submitted that due to the case

they have suffered and made all efforts to settle the matter but

STC., did not come forward. Therefore, to take lenient view in

the matter. The learned counsel for accused No.3 submitted that

accused No.3 is aged 57 years, got mother aged 80 years, his

wife and unmarried daughter aged 22 years and his wife is

suffering from illhealth and he is the main earning member in

the family and to show sympathy and take lenient view. Accused No.3 personally submitted that he is suffering

from family problems and to take lenient view while imposing

sentence. Looking to the submission made by the accused No.2 and

3 respectively, their learned counsel and the present conditions
 143 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

of accused No.2 and 3 and their family problems, it is proper to

take some lenient view in imposing the sentence. Hence, I

proceed to pass the following

 ORDER

 For the offence u/s 120B of IPC Accused No.2 K.C. Santosh

and Accused No.3 Manjunath Davanagere shall undergo Rigorous

Imprisonment for 3 (three) years each and shall pay a fine of

Rs.2,50,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs Fifty Thousand only) each and in

default of payment of fine to undergo Simple Imprisonment for 9

(Nine) months each. Further for the offence u/s 420 of IPC Accused No.2 K.C.

Santosh and Accused No.3 Manjunath Davanagere shall undergo

Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) years each and shall pay a

fine of Rs.2,50,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs Fifty Thousand only) each

and in default of payment of fine to undergo Simple

Imprisonment for 9 (Nine) months each. Both sentences shall run concurrently.

 Acting u/s 428 Cr.P.C., the days spent by accused No.2

and 3 in judicial custody during investigation and trial of this

case is given set off towards the imprisonment ordered. The bail bond of accused No.1 to 3 shall stand cancelled. 144 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Free copy of judgment is supplied to the accused No.2 and

3 in the open court. (Dictated to the Judgment Writer, transcribed by him, corrected
and then pronounced by me in the Open Court on this the 9th
day of November 2015)

 (BHEEMANAGOUDA K. NAIK)
 XXI Addl.City Civil and Sessions Judge
 And Prl. Special Judge for CBI Cases,
 Bengaluru City. ANNEXURE

LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE PROSECUTION: Ex.P.77: Original sanction order dated 14.2.2005 (4 sheets)
Ex.P.78: Covering letter dt. 24.2.2005 of C.V.O., STC, New
 Delhi to CBI, Bengaluru (1 sheet)
Ex.P.79: Copy of Notification dt. 2.9.2003 of Govt. of
 Karnataka u/s 6 of DSE Act (1 sheet)
Ex.P.80: Copy of Notification dt. 26.9.2003 issued by Govt. of
 India u/s 5 of DSPE Act, (1 sheet)
Ex.P.81: CC of Statement of contracts between M/s Kaycee
 Coffee & S.T.C., Bengaluru (2 sheets)
Ex.P.82: Copy of Certificate of Incorporation in respect of M/s. Kaycee Coffee
Ex.P.83: CC of statement of account of Syndicate Bank in
 respect of C.A.No.1865 (4 sheets)
Ex.P.84: CC of Commercial Invoice No.41 dt. 25.5.2000
Ex.P.85: CC of Commercial Invoice No.47 dt. 2.6.2000
Ex.P.86: CC of Commercial Invoice No.48 dt. 12.6.2000
Ex.P.87 to 89: Copies of Bills purchased by Syndicate Bank in
 respect of Coffee exported by M/s. Kaycee Coffee
 (3 sheets)
Ex.P.90: Letter dated 01.10.2004 of Chief Manager, Syndicate
 Bank, Millers Road Branch, Bengaluru (2 sheets)
Ex.P.91: True copy of the Fax Message dated 15.12.2000
 regarding approval from H.O., S.T.C., for making
 payment (1 sheet)
Ex.P.92: True copy of the permission according by the RBI to
 make payment (1 sheet)
Ex.P.93: True copy of the letter to SBI, Overseas Branch,
 Bengaluru for issuance of D.D. (1 sheet)
Ex.P.94: True copy of DD for US$2,65,000 (1 Sheet)
Ex.P.95: True copy of bank advise for US$2,65,000 (1 Sheet)
Ex.P.96: True copy of the confirmation of receipt of amount
 for US$2,65,000 (1 Sheet) from M/s. Coffee America
Ex.P.97: True copy of the Fax letter from M/s. Coffee America
 148 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 admitting the settlement and withdrawal of
 Arbitration

LIST OF DOCUMENTS EXHIBITED FOR THE DEFENCE: 149 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Bengaluru to M/s. Kaycee Coffee. Ex.D-35: Copy of Fax dated 25.4.2000 from S.T.C. Bengaluru to
 M/s. Kaycee Coffee
Ex.D-36: Copy of Fax dated 01/05/2000 written by PW.5 to
 S.T.C. New York
Ex.D-37: Copy of Standard quotation proposal
Ex.D-38: Copy of fax dated 22.3.2000 written by PW.5 to
 S.T.C. New York
Ex.D-39: Copy of Fax dt: 19.5.2000 written by PW.5 to
 M/s. Kaycee Coffee 2 sheets. Ex.D-40: Copy of fax dt. 24.5.2000 signed by PW.5 to S.T.C.
 New York
Ex.D-41: Copy of the letter addressed to S.T.C. New York written
 by A1 - 2 sheets
Ex.D-42: Letter dt. 23.5.2000 addressed to S.T.C., New York
 written by Finance Manager, S.T.C. Bengaluru (copy)
Ex.D-43: Copy of the letter dt. 15.4.2000 written by A1 to
 M/s Kaycee Coffee
Ex.D-44: Copy of the arbitration proceedings
 (marked in Ex.P24 only)
Ex.D-45: Copy of the fax dt: 14.7.2000 from A1 to PW.16 - 1 sheet
Ex.D-46: Fax copy of the office Note dt. 23.10.2000 for disposal
 of Stock in New York - 2 sheet (produced by the
 defence)
Ex.D-47: Letter dt: 19.1.2001 seeking permission to file a civil
 suit addressed to Corporate Office, New Delhi - 3
 sheets (produced by defence)
Ex.D-48: Copy of the airway bill dt. 28.3.2000 for sending coffee
 sample - 1 sheet (produced by defence)

LIST OF MATERAIL OBJECTS MARKED FOR PROSECUTION: Acting under Section 235(1) of Cr.P.C., Accused No.1 Dr. R.B.
Saha is hereby acquitted for the
offence punishable u/s 120-B r/w
420 IPC and Sec. 13(2) r/w sec. XXI Addl.City Civil and Sessions Judge,
 and Prl. Special Judge for CBI Cases,
 Bengaluru. Order pronounced in open
court, vide separate detailed order. For the offence u/s 120B of
IPC Accused No.2 K.C. Santosh and
Accused No.3 Manjunath
Davanagere shall undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for 3 (three) years
each and shall pay a fine of
Rs.2,50,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs Fifty
Thousand only) each and in default
of payment of fine to undergo
Simple Imprisonment for 9 (Nine)
months each. 151 Spl.C.C.29/05 J

 Further for the offence u/s 420 of IPC Accused No.2 K.C. Santosh and Accused No.3
Manjunath Davanagere shall
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment
for 3 (three) years each and shall
pay a fine of Rs.2,50,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs Fifty Thousand only)
each and in default of payment of
fine to undergo Simple
Imprisonment for 9 (Nine) months
each. Both sentences shall run
concurrently. Acting u/s 428 Cr.P.C., the days spent by accused No.2 and 3 in judicial custody during
investigation and trial of this case
is given set off towards the
imprisonment ordered. The bail bond of accused
No.1 to 3 shall stand cancelled. Free copy of judgment is supplied to the accused No.2 and 3 in the open court. (Bheemanagouda K. Naik)
 XXI Addl.City Civil and Sessions Judge,
 and Prl. Special Judge for CBI Cases,
 Bengaluru.