For Applicant : Mr. Kunwar Lal Sahu, Advocate
For Respondent/State : Mr. Akash Agrawal, P.L.

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal
 Order On Board
20.03.2026 1. The victim and her father appeared in person before this Court

 today and objected in granting bail to the applicant. 2. This is the first bail application filed u/s 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik

 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail to the applicant

 who has been arrested in connection with Crime No.708/2025

 registered at Police Station Sirgitti, District- Bilaspur (CG) for the 2 offence punishable under Sections 74, 75(2), 79 of BNS, Section

 67 of the Information Technology Act and Sections 8 & 14 of the

 POCSO Act. 3. As per the prosecution case, the victim's father made a written

 report at Sirgitti Police Station stating that 09.12.2025, an

 acquaintance informed him about an obscene video of his minor

 daughter being circulated and showed him the footage. Upon

 questioning, the victim revealed that she had met the applicant

 through Instagram a year ago, after which they began

 communicating over the phone. On 20.03.2025, the applicant met

 her near the Mannadol railway tracks and recorded a video of

 them kissing without her consent. The applicant then allegedly

 used this footage to blackmail her, threatening to release it unless

 she sent him nude videos. Under fear of public exposure, the

 victim complied. However, once she stopped communicating with

 him, the applicant allegedly circulated the private video content

 publicly to defame her. Based on the written report, the applicant

 was arrested on 27.12.2025. 4. Learned counsel for applicant submits that the applicant is

 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in this case. He

 submits that the FIR was lodged with an inordinate and

 unexplained delay. No obscene videos or photos of the victim

 were seized from the applicant's mobile phone nor is there any

 evidence of such content being circulated or made viral from his

 mobile. He further submits that the applicant is in jail since 3 27.12.2025 and there is no likelihood of the trial to be concluded

 at the earliest. Therefore, considering all these facts, the applicant

 may be released on bail. 5. Learned State counsel, on the other hand, opposing the bail

 application submits that the victim was minor at the time of

 incident and considering the nature of offence, the applicant does

 not deserve to be released on bail. 6. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case diary. 7. Taking into consideration the entire facts and circumstances of the

 case, particularly the fact that the trial has not commenced, this

 Court is not inclined to release the applicant on bail at this stage. 8. Accordingly, the present bail application stands rejected. 9. Office is directed to send a certified copy of this order to the trial

 Court concerned for necessary information. Sd/-