Aadhaar mandatory for drivers in Cyberabad

24 July: Under the Cyberabad Police Commissionerate, bike riders will now have to carry Aadhaar card along with other necessary documents, failing which their vehicles will be seized, police. More at Indiatoday .

Universalisation of Aadhaar can help security agencies

24 July: According to a former DGP in Bhopal, security agencies suffer for the lack of a comprehensive citizen database, and Aadhaar can solve the problem if all citizens are given Aadhaar. More at The Free Press Journal .

Aadhaar not sufficient for mutual fund and stocks investment

25 July: A KYC (Know Your Customer) based on PAN or Aadhaar will no more be sufficient for investing in mutual funds, stock and commodities markets. More at The Times of India .

Aadhaar card mail fraud

24 July: A 27-year-old Bandra resident uncovered a fake Aadhaar card scam after letters addressed to an unknown person kept coming to his house. More at MumbaiMirror .

Government fixes a target of 100 per cent Aadhaar-linked DBT

24 July: All Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) will be linked to Aadhaar by the end of the current calendar year. The Centre has decided to bring all subsidies and welfare schemes under the DBT net by March 31, 2017. More at The Economic Times .

Aadhaar enrolment to begin in 10 states

23 July: The home ministry has agreed to allow the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to do enrolment for Aadhaar in 10 states where the exercise was being solely done by the Registrar General of India (RGI). More at The Economic Times .

BJP was sceptical of Aadhaar during 2014 election campaign

23 July: Information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has conceded that many within the BJP were sceptics about the Aadhaar project during the 2014 general election campaign but Prime Minister Narendra Modi later realised the scheme’s game-changing potential. More at The Economic Times .

States to get incentives based on Aadhaar’s DBT platform

23 July: The government has transferred Rs 1.02 lakh crore under 74 central schemes to about 30 crore beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer or DBT system. The Centre is considering special incentives for States that take the lead in embracing the Aadhaar-based direct benefit transfer platform. More at The Hindu .

Government has no proposal to link Aadhaar Card for EPF benefits

18 July: Provident Fund (PF) subscribers, whose details like Aadhaar Number and Bank Account Number have been seeded in their Universal Account Number (UAN) and have been activated, may submit claim forms directly to the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) without attestation of their employers. They will also be eligible for online services of EPFO.

Image Credit: Sam Greenhalgh under CC BY 2.0

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event