Dear Sir/Madam, 


ISSUE:

My name is Dr Parmanand Gedam, working as Senior Planner (designation of Superintendent Engineer) in CIDCO, Navi Mumbai. I am cheated by the Future Generali Insurance Company along with one of my college Mr Arvind Shende, Senior Transportation Engineer (designation of Superintendent Engineer).


It is suprising the higly educated citizens of India are cheated by a foreign Insurance Company, then what could be the status of common man of India. This company had cheated many. Please see the vast cheating cases of Future Generali Insurance Company (FGIC) at www.consumercomplaints.in/future-generali-b102889.


My CASE:

I had received the first call from no[protected] on 08/04/2015 assuring me to get a Loan within 45 days, but till date loan is not received. And above all the numbers are defunct and no body is picking up the mobile.


I am vicitim of the Scam of the Future Generali Inscurance Company. This company has appointed agents through Call Centre who trap the innocent citizens of India who are in need of Housing or any other Loan or some Finance. These agents call the individual on their mobile (getting mobile numbers of the people is very easy in India) and ask if they require any loan. If the person is in need and he/she replies in affirmative, these agents lure them to take out policy from the Future Generali Insurance Company. These agents assure the person that they will get the Loan against the insurance policy (an audio clip is attatched herewith). But they also successfully convince the person that they should not divulge to anybody (or to the verification calls) that they are assured of getting/sanctioning of the Loan against the Insurance Policy.


The set up is so quick that the company arranges to collect the papers and premium amount (through Chaque) on the same day (surprisingly) or the next day. The persons in need are in dire need of money and get trapped by the scandulous system of Future Generali Insuranc Company.


These agents are appointed by Future Generali Company only. They advice the person that he/she should not expose that they are assured by the Company of sanctioning the Loan against the Insurance. 


MY Pathetic Condition:
I was in dire need of the housing loan to pay out the remaining agreement value of the purchased flat in Navi Mumbai. I have purchased two policies from Future Generali. I didn't have the money to pay the First Premium to book the Insurance Policy. But in hope of getting the Loan from this company I borrowed the money from my friends and relatives. I borrowd Rs 70, 000/- from my sister in law Mrs Harshlata Wankar staying at Bengalure and Rs 50, 000/- from my office collegue Mr Anil Sankhe staying in Navi Mumbai. Now, due to cheating by the Future Generali Insurance Company I am not in position to return this money to these my relatives.


Also I had registered a RD (Recurring Deposit) in SBI, Belapur, Navi Mumbai of Rs 1, 80, 000/- annum (Monthly Rs 15, 000/-) to pay out the premium of the FGIC on regular basis. I also have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 20, 000/- for my rented house in Seawoods, Navi Mumbai. My net salary is only Rs 50, 000/- monthly from which I have to manage all this compulsory payments. And I have to manage my house cores only with a meagre sum of Rs 15, 000/- every month, which includes the expense for my 3 kins and other dependants in house.


And now we can not get back my Rs 1, 20, 000/- from the FGILICL by closing or returning the policy.


Details of the Policy :

1. My Policies- (a) FGILICL Pearl Guarantee Policy no. 01259525 and (b)Future Generali Policy No. 01260413


2. Policy Nos of my collegue Mr Arvind Shende- (a) FGILICL Pearl Guarantee Plan Policy no. 01260011, dtd 28/04/15 and (b) FGILICL Assure Plus Plan Policy No. 01260451, dtd 12/05/2015.


NAME AND CONTACT NOS OF THE AGENTS:

The agents of Future Generali Insurance Company used to call us by following name and numbers-

1. Vikas Sharma-[protected]

2. Sachin Sharma- [protected]

3. Ritu- [protected]

Land line numbers[protected],[protected],[protected],[protected],[protected],[protected].


URGE:

NOW THERE IS NO RESPONSE FROHM THE COMPANY NOR THE AGENTS. THEY DONT EVEN PICK UP THE MOBILE. WE REQUEST THE GOVERNMENT TO CLOSE THE BUSINESS OF FGIC IN INDIA SEAL THEIR BANK ACCOUNTS AND PAY OUT THE MONEY OF THE PEOPLE WHO DONT WANT TO CONTINUE THE INSURANCE WITH THIS COMPANY.


Thanking you.


Dr P T Gedam, Emp No 32569, Senior Planner, JNPT Influence Area, CIDCO, Navi Mumbai. Mob No-[protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)