Uday Umesh Lalit, J. WRIT PETITION (CRL.) NO.48 OF 2014 1. This Writ Petition has been placed before the Constitution Bench

 pursuant to reference made by a Bench of three learned Judges of this Court in

 its order dated 25.04.20141, hereinafter referred to as the Referral Order. 1 2014(11) SCC 1 175 Background Facts:- 2. On the night of 21.05.1991 Rajiv Gandhi, former Prime Minister of India

was assassinated by a human bomb at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu. With him

fifteen persons including nine policemen died and forty three persons suffered

injuries. Crime No.329 of 1991 of Sriperumbudur Police Station was

immediately registered. On 22.05.1991 a notification was issued by the

Governor of Tamil Nadu under Section 6 of Delhi Special Police Establishment

Act (Act No.25 of 1946) according consent to the extension of the powers and

jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Police Establishment to the whole of

the State of Tamil Nadu for the investigation of the offences in relation to Crime

No.329 of 1991. This was followed by a notification issued by the Government

of India on 23.05.1991 under Section 5 read with Section 6 of Act No.25 of

1946 extending such powers and jurisdiction to the whole of the State of Tamil

Nadu for investigation of offences relating to Crime No. 329 of 1991. After due

investigation, a charge of conspiracy for offences under the Terrorist and

Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (TADA for short), Indian Penal

Code ( IPC for short), Explosive Substances Act, 1908 , Arms Act, 1959 , Passport Act, 1967 , Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Indian Wireless Telegraphy

Act, 1933 was laid against forty-one persons, twelve of whom were already

dead and three were marked as absconding. Remaining twenty six persons

faced the trial before the Designated Court which found them guilty of all the

charges and awarded punishment of fine of varying amounts, rigorous 176 imprisonment of different periods and sentenced all of them to death. The

Designated Court referred the case to this Court for confirmation of death

sentence of all the convicts. The convicts also filed appeals against their

conviction and the sentence awarded to them. These cases were heard together. 3. In the aforesaid Death Reference Cases and the appeals, this Court

rendered its judgment on 11.05.1999, reported in State through Superintendent

of Police, CBI/SIT v. Nalini and others2. At the end of the judgment, the

following order was passed by this Court: 4. Two sets of Review Petitions were preferred against the aforesaid

 judgment dated 11.05.1999. One was by convicts A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-18 on

 the question of death sentence awarded to them. These convicts did not

 challenge their conviction. The other was by the State through Central Bureau

 of Investigation (CBI for short), against that part of the judgment which held

 that no offence under Section 3(3) of TADA was made out. These Review

 Petitions were dismissed by order dated 08.10.19993. Wadhwa, J. with whom

 Quardi J. concurred, did not find any error in the judgment sought to be

 reviewed and therefore dismissed both sets of Review Petitions. Thomas J.

 opined that the Review Petition filed in respect of A-1 (Nalini) alone be allowed

 and her sentence be altered to imprisonment for life. Thus, in the light of the

 order of the majority, these Review Petitions were dismissed. 5. The convicts A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-18 then preferred Mercy Petitions

 before the Governor of Tamil Nadu on 17.10.1999 which were rejected on

 27.10.1999. The rejection was challenged before Madras High Court which by

 3 Suthendraraja alias Suthenthira Raja alias Santhan and others vs. State through
DSP/CBI, SIT, CHENNAI (1999) 9 SCC 323 178 its order dated 25.11.1999 set-aside the order of rejection and directed

reconsideration of those Mercy Petitions. Thereafter Mercy Petition of A-1

(Nalini) was allowed while those in respect of the convicts A-2, A-3 and A-18

were rejected by the Governor on 25.04.2000. Said convicts A-2, A-3 and A-18

thereafter preferred Mercy Petitions on 26.4.2000 to the President of India

under Article 72 of the Constitution. The Mercy Petitions were rejected by the

President on 12.08.2011 which led to the filing of Writ Petitions in Madras

High Court. Those Writ Petitions were transferred by this Court to itself by

order dated 01.05.20124. By its judgment dated 18.02.2014 in V. Sriharan @

Murugan v. Union of India and others5 a Bench of three learned Judges of this

Court commuted the death sentences awarded to convicts A-2, A-3 and A-18 to

that of imprisonment for life and passed certain directions. Paragraph 32 of the

judgment is quoted hereunder: 4 L.K. Venkat v. Union of India and others (2012) 5 SCC 292
 5 2014 (4) SCC 242 179 that Government of Tamil Nadu proposed to remit the sentence of life

imprisonment imposed on convicts A-2, A-3 and A-18 as well as on the other

convicts namely A-9, A-10 and A-16. It stated that these six convicted accused

had already served imprisonment for 23 years, that since the crime was

investigated by the CBI, as per Section 435 of Cr.P.C. the Central Government

was required to be consulted and as such the Central Government was requested

to indicate its views within three days on the proposal to remit the sentence of

life imprisonment and release those six convicts. 7. Union of India immediately filed Crl.M.P. Nos.4623-25 of 2014 on

20.02.2014 in the cases which were disposed of by the judgment dated

18.02.20145 praying that the State of Tamil Nadu be restrained from releasing

the convicts. On 20.02.2014 said Crl.M.P. Nos.4623-25 of 2014 were taken up

by this Court and the following order was passed: 19.02.2014 and the Decision of the Respondent no.8, Government
 of Tamil Nadu to consider commutation/remission of the sentences
 awarded to the Respondents No.1 to 7;” 9. After hearing rival submissions in the present writ petition, the Referral

Order was passed which formulated and referred seven questions for the

consideration of the Constitution Bench. Paragraph Nos. 49 and 52 to 54 of the

Referral Order were to the following effect:- 10. In terms of the Referral Order, this petition came up before the

Constitution Bench on 09.03.2014 which issued notices to all the State

Governments and pending notice the State Governments were restrained from

exercising power of remission to life convicts. This order was subsequently

varied by this Court on 23.07.2015 and the order so varied is presently in

operation. While the present writ petition was under consideration by this

Court, Curative Petitions Nos.22-24 of 2015 arising out of the dismissal of the

review petition vide order dated 01.04.2014 came up before this Court which

were dismissed by order dated 28.07.2015. PRELIMINARY OBJECTIONS 11. At the outset when the present writ petition was taken up for hearing, Mr.

Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the State of Tamil

Nadu and Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

respondents convicts raised preliminary objections regarding maintainability of

this writ petition at the instance of Union of India. It was argued that in the

petition as originally filed, nothing was indicated about alleged violation of any

fundamental right of any one and it was only when the State had raised

preliminary submissions, that additional grounds were preferred by Union of

India seeking to espouse the cause of the victims. It was submitted that the

issues sought to be raised by Union of India as regards the powers and

jurisdiction of the State of Tamil Nadu were essentially federal in nature and 183 that the only remedy available for agitating such issues could be through a suit

under Article 131 of the Constitution. In response, it was submitted by Mr.

Ranjit Kumar, learned Solicitor General that neither at the stage when the

Referral Order was passed, nor at the stage when notices were issued to various

State Governments, such preliminary objections were advanced and that the

issue had now receded in the background. It was submitted that after Criminal

Law Amendment Act 2013, rights of victims stand duly recognized and that the

instant crime having been investigated by the CBI, Union of India in its

capacity as parens patriae was entitled to approach this Court under Article 32. It was submitted that since private individuals, namely the convicts were parties

to this lis, a suit under Article 131 would not be a proper remedy. We find

considerable force in the submissions of the learned Solicitor General. Having

entertained the petition, issued notices to various State Governments,

entertained applications for impleadment and granted interim orders, it would

not be appropriate at this stage to consider such preliminary submissions. At

this juncture, the following passage from the judgment of the Constitution

Bench in Mohd. Aslam alias Bhure v. Union of India and others7 would guide

us:- DISCUSSION 12. We have heard Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned Solicitor General, assisted by Ms. V. Mohana , learned Senior Advocate for Union of India. The submissions

on behalf of the State Governments were led by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned

Senior Advocate who appeared for the States of Tamil Nadu and West Bengal,

Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Advocate and Mr. Yug Mohit Chaudhary,

learned Advocate appeared for respondents – convicts, namely, A-2, A-3, A-18,

A-9, A-10 and A-16. We have also heard Mr. Ravi Kumar Verma, learned

Advocate General for Karnataka, Mr. A.N.S. Nadkarni, learned Advocate

General for Goa, Mr. V. Giri, learned Senior Advocate for State of Kerala, Mr.

Gaurav Bhatia, learned Additional Advocate General for State of Uttar Pradesh,

Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina, learned Senior Advocate for one of the intervenors and

other learned counsel appearing for other State Governments, Union Territories

and other intervenors. We are grateful for the assistance rendered by the

learned Counsel. 13. The Challenge raised in the instant matter is principally to the

competence of the State Government in proposing to remit or commute 185 sentences of life imprisonment of the respondents-convicts and the contention is

 that either the State Government has no requisite power or that such power

 stands excluded. The questions referred for our consideration in the Referral

 Order raise issues concerning power of remission and commutation and as to

 which is the “appropriate Government” entitled to exercise such power and as

 regards the extent and ambit of such power. It would therefore be convenient to

 deal with questions 3, 4 and 5 as stated in Paras 52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 at the

 outset. Re: Question Nos.3, 4 and 5 as stated in para Nos.52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 of the
 Referral Order

 52.3. Whether Section 432(7) of the Code clearly gives primacy to
 the executive power of the Union and excludes the executive
 power of the State where the power of the Union is co-extensive?

 52.4. Whether the Union or the State has primacy over the
 subject-matter enlisted in List III of the 7th Schedule to the
 Constitution of India for exercise of power of remission?

 52.5. Whether there can be two appropriate Governments in a
 given case under Section 432(7) of the Code? 14. Powers to grant pardon and to suspend, remit or commute sentences are

 conferred by Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution upon the President and the

 Governor. Articles 72 and 161 are quoted here for ready reference: “161. Power of Governor to grant pardons, etc, and to suspend, remit or
commute sentences in certain cases.-The Governor of a State shall have
the power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of
punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person
convicted of any offence against any law relating to a matter to which the
executive power of the State extends. 15. Before we turn to the matters in issue, a word about the nature of power

 under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution. In K.M. Nanavati v. State of

 Bombay8 it was observed by Constitution Bench of this Court, “……. Pardon is

 one of the many prerogatives which have been recognized since time

 immemorial as being vested in the sovereign, wherever the sovereignty may

 lie…….”. In Kehar Singh and another v. Union of India and another9

 8 (1961) 1 SCR 497 at 516
 9 (1989) 1 SCC 204 at 213 187 Constitution Bench of this Court quoted with approval the following passage

from U.S. v. Benz [75 Lawyers Ed. 354, 358]

 “The judicial power and the executive power over sentences are
 readily distinguishable. To render judgment is a judicial function.
 To carry the judgment into effect is an executive function. To cut
 short a sentence by an act of clemency is an exercise of executive
 power which abridges the enforcement of the judgment, but does
 not alter it qua a judgment. To reduce a sentence by amendment
 alters the terms of the judgment itself and is a judicial act as much
 as the imposition of the sentence in the first instance.”

The Constitution Bench further observed: 10 (2006) 8 SCC 161 188 granted, it is the determination of the ultimate authority that the
 public welfare will be better served by inflicting less than what the
 judgment fixed.”

 In his concurring judgment Kapadia J. (as the learned Chief Justice then

was) stated: The controlling factor in determining whether the exercise of
 prerogative power is subject to judicial review is not its source but
 its subject-matter. It can no longer be said that prerogative power is
 ipso facto immune from judicial review. An undue exercise of this
 power is to be deplored. Considerations of religion, caste or
 political loyalty are irrelevant and fraught with discrimination.
 These are prohibited grounds. The Rule of Law is the basis for
 evaluation of all decisions. The supreme quality of the Rule of Law
 is fairness and legal certainty. The principle of legality occupies a
 central plan in the Rule of Law. Every prerogative has to be subject
 to the Rule of Law. That rule cannot be compromised on the
 grounds of political expediency. To go by such considerations
 would be subversive of the fundamental principles of the Rule of 189 Law and it would amount to setting a dangerous precedent. The
 Rule of Law principle comprises a requirement of “Government
 according to law”. The ethos of “Government according to law”
 requires the prerogative to be exercised in a manner which is
 consistent with the basic principle of fairness and certainty.
 Therefore, the power of executive clemency is not only for the
 benefit of the convict, but while exercising such a power the
 President or the Governor, as the case may be, has to keep in mind
 the effect of his decision on the family of the victims, the society
 as a whole and the precedent it sets for the future.” 16. The power conferred upon the President under Article 72 is under three

heads. The Governor on the other hand is conferred power under a sole head

i.e. in respect of sentence for an offence against any law relating to the matter to

which the executive power of the State extends. Apart from similar such power

in favour of the President in relation to matter to which the executive power of

the Union extends, the President is additionally empowered on two counts. He

is given exclusive power in all cases where punishment or sentence is by a

Court Martial. He is also conferred power in all cases where the sentence is a

sentence of death. Thus, in respect of cases of sentence of death, the power in

favour of the President is regardless whether it is a matter to which the

executive power of the Union extends. Therefore a person convicted of any

offence and sentenced to death sentence under any law relating to a matter to

which the executive power of the State extends, can approach either the

Governor by virtue of Article 161 or the President in terms of Article 72(1)(c) or both. To this limited extent there is definitely an overlap and powers stand

conferred concurrently upon the President and the Governor. 190 17. Articles 73 and 162 of the Constitution delineate the extent of executive

 powers of the Union and the State respectively. Said Articles 73 and 162 are as

 under:- 162. Extent of executive power of State.- Subject to the provisions of this
Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters
with respect to which the Legislature of the State has power to make
laws: Provided that in any matter with respect to which the Legislature of
a State and Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of
the State shall be subject to, and limited by, the executive power
expressly conferred by this Constitution or by any law made by
Parliament upon the Union or authorities thereof. ” 18. As regards clause (b) of Article 73(1) there is no dispute that in such

 matters the executive power of the Union is absolute. The area of debate is with

 respect to clause (a) of Article 73(1) and the Proviso to Article 73(1) and the 191 inter-relation with Article 162. Clause (a) of Article 73(1) states that the

executive power of the Union shall extend to the matters with respect to which

Parliament has power to make laws. Parliament has exclusive power in respect

of legislative heads mentioned in List I of the 7th Schedule whereas in respect of

the entries in the Concurrent List namely List III of the 7 th Schedule, both

Parliament and the State have power to legislate in accordance with the scheme

of the Constitution. The Proviso to Article 73(1) however states, subject to the

saving clause therein, that the executive power so referred to in sub-clause (a)

shall not extend in any State to matters with respect to which the legislature of

the State has also power to make laws. The expression “also” is significant.

Under the Constitution the State has exclusive power to make laws with respect

to List II of the 7th Schedule and has also concurrent power with respect to

entries in Concurrent List namely List III of the Constitution. The Proviso thus

deals with situations where the matter relates to or is with respect to subject

where both Parliament and the Legislature of the State are empowered to make

laws under the Concurrent List. Subject to the saving clause mentioned in the

Proviso, it is thus mandated that with respect to matters which are in the

Concurrent List namely where the Legislature of the State has also power to

make laws, the executive power of the Union shall not extend. The saving

clause in the Proviso deals with two exceptions namely, where it is so otherwise

expressly provided in the Constitution or in any law made by Parliament. In

other words, only in those cases where it is so expressly provided in the 192 Constitution itself or in any law made by Parliament, the executive power of

the Union will be available. But for such express provision either in the

Constitution or in the law made by Parliament which is in the nature of an

exception, the general principle which must govern is that the executive power

under sub-clause (a) of Article 73 shall not extend in any State to matters with

respect to which the legislature of the State has also power to make laws. In

the absence of such express provision either in the Constitution or in the law

made by Parliament, the normal rule is that the executive power of the Union

shall not extend in a State to matters with respect to which the legislature of the

State has also power to make laws. 19. It will be instructive at this stage to see the debates on the point in the

Constituent Assembly. The proceedings dated 30th December, 1948 in the

Constituent Assembly11 show that while draft Article 60 which corresponds to

present Article 73 was being discussed, an Hon’ble Member voiced his concern

in following words: We shall have to deal with them when the time comes. But this
 clause gives even executive powers to the Centre with reference to
 the subjects which are detailed in the Concurrent List.…….”

 After considerable debate on the point the clarification by Hon’ble

Member Dr. B.R. Ambedkar is noteworthy. His view was as under: 20. In Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur and others v. State of Punjab12 this

Court while dealing with Article 162 of the Constitution, observed as under:- 21. The same principle as regards the extent of Executive Power of the Union

and the State as stated in Articles 73 and 162 of the Constitution finds echo in Section 55A of the Indian Penal Code which defines appropriate Government as

under: 22. At this stage we may quote Sections 432 to 435 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as Cr.P.C .) :- 433. Power to commute sentence. The appropriate Government
may, without the consent of the person sentenced, commute- (a) a sentence of death, for any other punishment provided by the Indian Penal Code ; (b) a sentence of imprisonment for life, for imprisonment for a
term not exceeding fourteen years or for fine ; (c) a sentence of rigorous imprisonment, for simple imprisonment
for any term to which that person might have been sentenced, or 197 for fine ; (d) a sentence of simple imprisonment, for fine. 433A. Restriction on powers of remission or Commutation in
certain cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 432,
where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction
of a person for an offence for which death is one of the
punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death
imposed on a person has been commuted under section 433 into
one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released
from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of
imprisonment. 434. Concurrent power of Central Government in case of death
sentences. The powers conferred by sections 432 and 433 upon the
State Government may, in the case of sentences of death, also be
exercised by the Central Government. 435. State Government to act after consultation with Central
Government in certain cases. (1) The powers conferred by
sections 432 and 433 upon the State Government to remit or
commute a sentence, in any case where the sentence Is for an
offence- (a) which was investigated by the Delhi Special Police
Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special Police
Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946), or by any other agency
empowered to make investigation into an offence under any
Central Act other than this Code, or (b) which involved the misappropriation or destruction of, or
damage to, any property belonging to the Central Government, or (c) which was committed by a person in the service of the
Central Government while acting or purporting to act in the
discharge of his official duty, shall not be exercised by the State
Government except after consultation with the Central
Government. (2) No order of suspension, remission or commutation of
sentences passed by the State Government in relation to a person,
who has been convicted of offences, some of which relate to
matters to which the executive power of the Union extends, and 198 who has been sentenced to separate terms of imprisonment which
 are to run concurrently, shall have effect unless an order for the
 suspension, remission or commutation, as the case may be, of such
 sentences has also been made by the Central Government in
 relation to the offences committed by such person with regard to
 matters to which the executive power of the Union extends.” 23. As regards definition of appropriate Government, Section 432(7) of

Cr.P.C. adopts a slightly different approach. It defines Central

Government to be the appropriate Government in cases where the sentence is

for an offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power

of the Union extends. In that sense it goes by the same principle as in Article

73 of the Constitution and Section 55A of the IPC. The residuary area is then

left for the State Government and it further states that in cases other than those

where the Central Government is an appropriate Government, the Government

of the State within which the offender is sentenced shall be the appropriate

Government. In other words, it carries the same essence and is not in any way

different from the principle in Article 73 read with Article 162 on one hand and Section 55A of the IPC on the other. The specification as to the State where the

offender is sentenced serves an entirely different purpose and helps in finding

amongst more than one State Governments which is the appropriate

Government as found in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ratan Singh and

others13, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ajit Singh and others14, Hanumant Dass

 13 (1976) 3 SCC 470
 14 (1976) 3 SCC 616 199 v. Vinay Kumar and others15and Govt. of A.P. and others v. M.T. Khan16 .

According to this provision, even if an offence is committed in State A but if the

trial takes place and the sentence is passed in State B, it is the latter State which

shall be the appropriate Government. 24. There is one more provision namely Section 435(2) of Cr. P.C. which

needs to be considered at this stage. It is possible that in a given case the

accused may be convicted and sentenced for different offences, in respect of

some of which the executive power of the Union may extend and to the rest the

executive power of the State may extend. Since the executive power either of

the Union or the State is offence specific, both shall be appropriate

Governments in respect of respective offence or offences to which the executive

power of the respective government extends. For instance, an offender may be

sentenced for an offence punishable under an enactment relatable to subject

under List I of the Constitution and additionally under the Indian Penal Code .

Such eventuality is taken care of by sub-section (2) of Section 435 and it is

stipulated that even if the State Government in its capacity as an appropriate

Government in relation to an offence to which the executive power of the State

Government extends, were to order suspension, remission or commutation of

sentence in respect of such offence, the order of the State Government shall not

have effect unless an appropriate order of suspension, remission or

commutation is also passed by the Central Government in relation to the

 15 (1982) 2 SCC 177
 16 (2004) 1 SCC 616 200 offence(s) with respect to which executive power of the Union extends.

Relevant to note that it is not with respect to a specific offence that both the

Central Government and State Government have concurrent power but if the

offender is sentenced on two different counts, both could be the appropriate

governments in respect of that offence to which the respective executive power

extends. 25. It was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that if the Executive Power is

co-extensive with the Legislative Power and the law making power of the State

must yield to the Legislative Power of the Union in respect of a subject in the

Concurrent List, reading of these two principles would inevitably lead to the

conclusion that the executive power of the Union takes primacy over that of the

State thereby making it i.e. the Central Government the appropriate

Government under Section 432(7) of Cr. P.C. It was further submitted that it

was Parliament which made law contained in Cr.P.C . in exercise of power

relatable to Entry 1 and 2 of List III and that the provisions in the IPC (existing

law under Article 13 ) and under the Cr. P.C., both relatable to the powers of

Parliament, which provide for “appropriate Government” as prescribed in Section 55A of the IPC and 432(7) of the Cr.P.C . without any validity enacted

conflicting or amending law by the State, would clearly show that it is the

Union which has the primacy. In our considered view, that is not the correct

way to approach the issue. For the purposes of Article 73(1) it is not material

whether there is Union law holding the field but what is crucial is that such law 201 made by Parliament must make an express provision or there must be such

express provision in the Constitution itself as regards executive power of the

Union, in the absence of which the general principle as stated above must apply.

If the submission that since the IPC and Cr. P.C. are relatable to the powers of

Parliament, it is the executive power of the Union which must extend to aspects

covered by these legislations is to be accepted, the logical sequitor would be

that for every offence under IPC the appropriate Government shall be the

Central Government. This is not only against the express language of Article

73(1) but would completely overburden the Central Government. 26. In the instant case as the order passed by this Court in State v. Nalini and

others2, the respondents-convicts were acquitted of the offences punishable

under Section 3(3) , 3(4) and 5 of the TADA. Their conviction under various

central laws like Explosive Substances Act, Passport Act, Foreigners Act and

Wireless Telegraphy Act were all for lesser terms which sentences, as on the

date, stand undergone. Consequently, there is no reason or occasion to seek any

remission in or commutation of sentences on those counts. The only sentence

remaining is one under Section 302 IPC which is life imprisonment. It was

submitted by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate that Section 302 IPC falls in Chapter XVI of the IPC relating to offences affecting the human

body. In his submission, Sections 299 to 377 IPC involve matters directly

related to “public order” which are covered by Entry 1 List II. It being in the

exclusive executive domain of the State Government, the State Government 202 would be the appropriate Government. It was further submitted that assuming

Sections 302 read with Section 120B IPC are relatable to Entry 1 of List III

being part of the Indian Penal Code itself, then the issue may arise whether

Central Government or the State Government shall be the appropriate

Government and resort has to be taken to provisions of Articles 73 and 162 of

the Constitution to resolve the issue. 27. At this stage it would be useful to consider the decision of this Court in G.V. Ramanaiah v. The Superintendent of Central Jail Rajahmundry and

others.17. In that case the appellant was convicted of offences punishable under Section 489-A to 489-D of IPC and sentenced to imprisonment for 10 years. On

a question whether the State Government would be competent to remit the

sentence of the appellant, this Court observed as under: 28. In Zameer Ahmed Latifur Rehman Sheikh v. State of Maharashtra and

others18 challenge was raised to the competence of the State Legislature to

enact Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 . While rejecting the

challenge, it was observed by this Court as under:- 29. We are however concerned in the present case with offence under Section

302 IPC simplicitor. The respondents-convicts stand acquitted insofar as

offences under the TADA are concerned. We find force in the submissions of

Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate that the offence under Section

302 IPC is directly related to “public order” under Entry 1 of List II of the 7 th

Schedule to the Constitution and is in the exclusive domain of the State

Government. In our view the offence in question is within the exclusive

domain of the State Government and it is the executive power of the State

which must extend to such offence. Even if it is accepted for the sake of

argument that the offence under Section 302 IPC is referable to Entry 1 of List

III, in accordance with the principles as discussed hereinabove, it is the

executive power of the State Government alone which must extend, in the

absence of any specific provision in the Constitution or in the law made by

Parliament. Consequently, the State Government is the appropriate

Government in respect of the offence in question in the present matter. It may

be relevant to note that right from K.M. Nanavati v. State of Bombay (supra)8

in matters concerning offences under Section 302 IPC it is the Governor under Article 161 or the State Government as appropriate Government under the 206 Cr.P.C . who have been exercising appropriate powers. 30. In the light of the aforesaid discussion our answers to questions 3, 4 and 5

as stated in paragraph 52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 are as under: 31. We now turn to the exercise of power of remission under Section 432(1) of Cr.P.C.. Remissions are of two kinds. The first category is of remissions

under the relevant Jail Manual which depend upon the good conduct or 208 behavior of a convict while undergoing sentence awarded to him. These are

generally referred to as ‘earned remissions’ and are not referable to Section 432 of Cr.P.C. but have their genesis in the Jail Manual or any such Guidelines

holding the field. In Shraddananda(2)6 this aspect was explained thus: …….. Though, therefore, the effect of an order of remission
 is to wipe out that part of the sentence of imprisonment which has
 not been served out and thus in practice to reduce the sentence to
 the period already undergone, in law the order of remission merely
 means that the rest of the sentence need not be undergone, leaving
 the order of conviction by the court and the sentence passed by it
 untouched.” 32. The difference between earned remissions “for good behaviour” and the

remission of sentence under Section 432 is clear. The first depends upon the

Jail Manual or the Policy in question and normally accrues and accumulates to

the credit of the prisoner without there being any specific order by the

appropriate Government in an individual case while the one under Section 432

requires specific assessment in an individual matter and is case specific. Could

such exercise be undertaken under Section 432 by the appropriate Government

on its own, without there being any application by or on behalf of the prisoner?

This issue has already been dealt with in following cases by this Court.

A]. In Sangeet and another. v. State of Haryana22, it was observed in paras

59, 61 and 62 as under:- State of Haryana, there is a misconception that a prisoner
 serving life sentence has an indefeasible right to release on
 completion of either 14 years’ or 20 years’ imprisonment. A
 convict undergoing life imprisonment is expected to remain in
 custody till the end of his life, subject to any remission
 granted by the appropriate Government under Section 432 of
 the Code which in turn is subject to the procedural checks
 mentioned in the said provision and further substantive check
 in Section 433-A of the Code.”

C] In Yakub Abdul Razak Memon v. State of Maharashtra through CBI,

Bombay24, it was observed in paras 921 and 922 as under: 33. Relying on the aforesaid decisions of this Court, it was submitted by the

learned Solicitor General that there cannot be suo motu exercise of power under

Section 432 and that even when the power is to be exercised on an application

made by or on behalf of the prisoner, opinion of the Presiding Judge of the

Court before or by which the conviction was confirmed, must be sought. In the

submission of Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate, power under

Section 432(1) can be exercised suo motu and that Section 432(2) applies only

when an application is made and not where power is exercised suo motu. 34. We find force in the submission of the learned Solicitor General. By

exercise of power of remission, the appropriate Government is enabled to wipe

out that part of the sentence which has not been served out and over-ride a

judicially pronounced sentence. The decision to grant remission must,

therefore, be well informed, reasonable and fair to all concerned. The

procedure prescribed in Section 432(2) is designed to achieve this purpose. The

power exercisable under Section 432(1) is an enabling provision and must be in

accord with the procedure under Section 432(2). 213 Thus, our answer to question posed in para 52.6 is:- 35. Section 435(1) of Cr.P.C. sets out three categories under clauses (a), (b)

and (c) thereof and states inter alia that the powers conferred by Sections 432 and 433 of Cr.P.C. upon the State Government shall not be exercised except

after consultation with the Central Government. The language used in this

provision and the expressions “… shall not be exercised” and “except after

consultation”, signify the mandatory nature of the provision. Consultation with

the Central Government must, therefore, be mandatorily undertaken before the

State Government in its capacity as appropriate Government intends to exercise

powers under Sections 432 and 433. This is an instance of express provision in

a law made by Parliament as referred to in proviso to Article 73(1) of the

Constitution. The question is whether such consultation stipulated in Section

435(1) implies concurrence on part of the Central Government as regards the

action proposed by the State Government. Relying on the decisions of this 214 Court in L&T McNeil Ltd. v. Govt. of Tamil Nadu25 , State of U.P. & another

v. Johri Mal26 , State of Uttar Pradesh and others v. Rakesh Kumar Keshari and another27, Justice Chandrashekaraiah (Retd.) v. Janekere C. Krishna

and others28 Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate submitted that the

term consultation as appearing in Section 435 ought not to be equated with

concurrence and that the action on part of the State of Tamil Nadu in seeking

views of the Central Government as regards the proposed action did satisfy the

requirement under Section 435. On the other hand, the learned Solicitor

General relied upon Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association and

others v. Union of India29 and State of Gujarat and another v. Justice R.A.

Mehta(Retd.) and others30 to submit that the consultation referred to in the

provision must mean concurrence on part of the Central Government. In his

submission without such concurrence, no action could be undertaken. 36. Speaking for the majority in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record

Association (supra) J.S. Verma, J (as the learned Chief Justice then was)

considered the effect of the phrase “consultation with the Chief Justice of India

” appearing in Article 222 of the Constitution . The observations in paragraphs

438 to 441 are quoted hereunder: 439. The primacy of one constitutional functionary qua the
others, who together participate in the performance of this
function assumes significance only when they cannot reach an
agreed conclusion. The debate is academic when a decision is
reached by agreement taking into account the opinion of
everyone participating together in the process, as primarily
intended. The situation of a difference at the end, raising the
question of primacy, is best avoided by each constitutional
functionary remembering that all of them are participants in a
joint venture, the aim of which is to find out and select the
most suitable candidate for appointment, after assessing the
comparative merit of all those available. This exercise must
be performed as a pious duty to discharge the constitutional
obligation imposed collectively on the highest functionaries
drawn from the executive and the judiciary, in view of the
great significance of these appointments. The common
purpose to be achieved, points in the direction that emphasis
has to be on the importance of the purpose and not on the
comparative importance of the participants working together
to achieve the purpose. Attention has to be focussed on the
purpose, to enable better appreciation of the significance of
the role of each participant, with the consciousness that each
of them has some inherent limitation, and it is only
collectively that they constitute the selector. 440. The discharge of the assigned role by each functionary,
viewed in the context of the obligation of each to achieve the
common constitutional purpose in the joint venture will help
to transcend the concept of primacy between them. However,
if there be any disagreement even then between them which
cannot be ironed out by joint effort, the question of primacy
would arise to avoid stalemate. 441. For this reason, it must be seen who is best equipped
and likely to be more correct in his view for achieving the
purpose and performing the task satisfactorily. In other
words, primacy should be in him who qualifies to be treated
as the ‘expert’ in the field. Comparatively greater weight to
his opinion may then be attached.” 216 The principle which emerges is that while construing the term

‘consultation’ it must be seen who is the best equipped and likely to be more

correct in his view for achieving the purpose and performing the tasks

satisfactorily and greater weight to his opinion may then be attached. While considering the phrase “after consultation of the Chief Justice of

the High Court”, this Court in State of Gujarat v. R.A. Mehta (supra) stated the

principles thus: Clause (a) deals with cases which are investigated by the Delhi Special Police

Establishment i.e. the Central Bureau of Investigation or by any other agency 217 empowered to make investigation into an offence under any Central Act. The investigation by CBI in a matter may arise as a result of express

consent or approval by the concerned State Government under Sections 5 and 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act or as a result of directions by a

Superior Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction in terms of the law laid down

by this Court in State of West Bengal and others v. Committee for Protection

of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and others 31. For instance, in the present

case the investigation into the crime in question i.e. Crime No. 3 of 1991 was

handed over to the CBI on the next day itself. The entire investigation was

done by the CBI who thereafter carried the prosecution right up to this Court. 38. In a case where the investigation is thus handed over to the CBI, entire

carriage of the proceedings including decisions as to who shall be the public

prosecutor, how the prosecution be conducted and whether appeal be filed or

not are all taken by the CBI and at no stage the concerned State Government

has any role to play. It has been laid down by this Court in Lalu Prasad Yadav

and another v. State of Bihar and another32 that in matters where

investigation was handed over to the CBI, it is the CBI alone which is

competent to decide whether appeal be filed or not and the State Government

cannot even challenge the order of acquittal on its own. In such cases could the

State Government then seek to exercise powers under Sections 432 and 433 on

 31 (2010) 3 SCC 571
 32 (2010) 5 SCC 1 218 its own? 39. Further, in certain cases investigation is transferred to the CBI under

express orders of the Superior Court. There are number of such examples and

the cases could be of trans-border ramifications such as stamp papers scam or

chit fund scam where the offence may have been committed in more than one

States or it could be cases where the role and conduct of the concerned State

Government was such that in order to have transparency in the entirety of the

matter, the Superior Court deemed it proper to transfer the investigation to the

CBI. It would not then be appropriate to allow the same State Government to

exercise power under Sections 432 and 433 on its own and in such matters, the

opinion of the Central Government must have a decisive status. In cases where

the investigation was so conducted by the CBI or any such Central Investigating

Agency, the Central Government would be better equipped and likely to be

more correct in its view. Considering the context of the provision, in our view

comparatively greater weight ought to be attached to the opinion of the Central

Government which through CBI or other Central Investigating Agency was

in-charge of the investigation and had complete carriage of the proceedings. 40. The other two clauses, namely, clauses (b) and (c) of Section 435 deal

with offences pertaining to destruction of any property belonging to the Central

Government or where the offence was committed by a person in the service of

the Central Government while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his 219 official duty. Here again, it would be the Central Government which would be

better equipped and more correct in taking the appropriate view which could

achieve the purpose satisfactorily. In such cases, the question whether the

prisoner ought to be given the benefit under Section 432 or 433 must be that of

the Central Government. Merely because the State Government happens to be

the appropriate Government in respect of such offences, if the prisoner were to

be granted benefit under Section 432 or 433 by the State Government on its

own, it would in fact defeat the very purpose. Our Answer to Question post in Para 52.7 is:- Re: Question No.2 as stated in para 52.2 of the Referral Order

 52.2. Whether the “appropriate Government” is permitted to
 exercise the power of remission under Sections 432/433 of the
 Code after the parallel power has been exercised by the President
 under Article 72 or the Governor under Article 161 or by this Court
 in its constitutional power under Article 32 as in this case? 41. As regards this question, the submissions of the learned Solicitor General

were two-fold. According to him the Governor while exercising power under 220 Article 161 of the Constitution, having declined remission in or commutation of

sentences awarded to the respondents-convicts, second or subsequent exercise

of executive power under Section 432/433 by the State Government was not

permissible and it would amount to an over-ruling or nullification of the

exercise of constitutional power vested in the Governor. In his submission, the

statutory power under Section 432 / 433 Cr.P.C. could not be exercised in a

manner that would be in conflict with the decision taken by the constitutional

functionary under Article 161 of the Constitution. It was his further submission

that Sections 432 and 433 of Cr.P.C. only prescribe a procedure for remission,

while the source of substantive power of remission is in the Constitution.

According to him Sections 432 and 433 , Cr.P.C. are purely procedural and in

aid of constitutional power under Article 72 of 161. He further submitted that

as laid down in Maru Ram (supra), while exercising powers under Articles 72 and 161 , the President or the Governor act on the aid and advice of the Council

of Ministers and thus the Council of Ministers, that is to say the executive

having already considered the matter and rejected the petition, a subsequent

exercise by the same executive is impermissible. On the other hand, it was

submitted by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate that there was

nothing in the statute which would bar or prohibit exercise of power on the

second or subsequent occasion and in fact Section 433A of Cr.P.C. itself gives

an indication that such exercise is permissible. It was further submitted that the

power conferred upon an authority can be exercised successively from time to 221 time as occasion requires. 42. We would first deal with the submission of the learned Solicitor General

that the provisions of Section 432 / 433 Cr.P.C. are purely procedural and in aid

of the constitutional power. This Court had an occasion to deal with the issue,

though in a slightly different context, in Maru Ram (supra). We may quote

paragraphs 58 and 59 of the decision, which are as under: 43. The submission that Sections 432 and 433 are a statutory expression and

modus operandi of the constitutional power was not accepted in Maru Ram (supra). In fact this Court went on to observe that though these two powers, 222 one constitutional and the other statutory, are co-extensive, the source is

different, the substance is different and the strength is different. This Court saw

the two powers as far from being identical. The conclusion in para 72(4) in Maru Ram (supra) was as under: 44. Section 433A of Cr.P.C. inter alia states, “…… where a sentence of death

imposed on a person has been commuted under Section 433 into one of

imprisonment for life”, such person shall not be released from prison unless he

had served at least 14 years of imprisonment. It thus contemplates an earlier

exercise of power of commuting the sentence under Section 433 Cr.P.C. It may

be relevant to note that under Section 433 a sentence of death can be commuted

for any other punishment including imprisonment for life. A prisoner having

thus been granted a benefit under Section 433 Cr.P.C. can certainly be granted

further benefit of remitting the remainder part of the life sentence, subject of 223 course to statutory minimum period of 14 years of actual imprisonment. We

 therefore accept the submission of Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior

 Advocate that there is nothing in the statute which either expressly or impliedly

 bars second or subsequent exercise of power. In fact Section 433A

 contemplates such subsequent exercise of power. At this stage, the observations

 in G. Krishta Goud and J. Bhoomaiah v. State of Andhra Pradesh and

 others33 in the context of constitutional power of clemency are relevant: 45. In State of Haryana and others v. Jagdish35it was observed by this Court

 as under: In State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) v. Prem Ram36 it was observed thus: 46. We see no hindrance or prohibition in second or subsequent exercise of

power under Section 432 / 433 Cr.P.C. As stated above, such exercise is in fact

contemplated under Section 433A. An exercise of such power may be required

and called for depending upon exigencies and fact situation. A person may be

on the death bed and as such the appropriate Government may deem fit to grant

remission so that he may breathe his last in the comfort and company of his

relations. Situations could be different. It would be difficult to put the matter

 36 (2003) 7 SCC 121 225 in any straight jacket or make it subject to any guidelines, as was found in

Kehar Singh. The aspects whether “the convict had lost his potentiality in

committing the crime and whether there was any fruitful purpose of confining

the convict any more” as stated in State of Haryana v. Jagdish (supra) could

possibly yield different assessment after certain period and can never be static.

Every case will depend on its individual facts and circumstances. In any case,

if the repeated exercise is not for any genuine or bona fide reasons, the matter

can be corrected by way of judicial review. Further, in the light of our decision

as aforesaid, in any case an approach would be required to be made under Section 432(2) Cr.P.C. to the concerned court which would also result in having

an adequate check. 47. In the instant case, A-1 Nalini and other convicts A-2, A-3 and A-18 who

were awarded death sentence had initially preferred mercy petition under Article 161 of the Constitution. The petition preferred by A-1 Nalini was

allowed, while those of other three were rejected. Those three convicts then

preferred mercy petition under Article 72 of the Constitution which was rejected

after considerable delay. On account of such delay in disposal of the matters,

this Court commuted the sentence of those three convicts to that of life

imprisonment. The other convicts namely A-9, A-10 and A-16 had not

preferred any petition under Article 161 against their life imprisonment. Thus

the Governor while exercising power under Article 161 on the earlier occasion

had considered the cases of only three of the convicts and that too when they 226 were facing death sentence. The cases of other three were not even before the

 Governor. In the changed scenario namely the death sentence having been

 commuted to that of the imprisonment for life under the orders of this Court, the

 approach would not be on the same set of circumstances. Each of the convicts

 having undergone about 23 years of actual imprisonment, there is definitely

 change in circumstances. An earlier exercise of power under Article 72 or 161

 may certainly have taken into account the gravity of the offence, the effect of

 such offence on the society in general and the victims in particular, the age,

 capacity and conduct of the offenders and the possibility of any retribution.

 Such assessment would naturally have been as on the day it was made. It is

 possible that with the passage of time the very same assessment could be of a

 different nature. It will therefore be incorrect and unjust to rule out even an

 assessment on the subsequent occasion. 48. While commuting the death sentence to that of imprisonment for life, on

 account of delay in disposal of the mercy petition, this Court in its jurisdiction

 under Article 32 concentrates purely on the factum of delay in disposal of such

 mercy petition as laid down by this Court in Shatrughan Chauhan and

 another v. Union of India and others37. The merits of the matter are not

 required and cannot be gone into. The commutation by this Court in exercise of

 power under Article 32 is therefore completely of a different nature. On the

 other hand, the consideration under Section 432/433 is of a different dimension

37 (2014) 3 SCC 1 227 altogether. Our Answer to Question posed in Para 52.2 is :- Re: Question No.1 as stated in para 52.1 of the Referral Order 49. Question no. 1 as formulated in the Referral Order comprises of two

sub-questions, as set out hereunder: Re: Sub-question (a) of question No.1 in Para 52.1 228 (a) Whether imprisonment for life in terms of Section 53 read
 with Section 45 of the Indian Penal Code meant imprisonment for
 rest of the life of the prisoner or a convict undergoing life
 imprisonment has a right to claim remission? 50. In Gopal Vinayak Godse v. The State of Maharashtra and others38, the

petitioner was convicted on 10.02.1949 and given sentences including one for

transportation for life. According to him, he had earned remissions to the tune

of 2893 days upto 30.09.1960 and if such earned remissions were added, his

actual term of imprisonment would exceed 20 years and therefore he prayed

that he be set at liberty forthwith. Repelling these submissions, it was observed

by the Constitution Bench of this Court that in order to get the benefit of earned

remissions the sentence of imprisonment must be for a definite and

ascertainable period, from and out of which the earned remissions could be

deducted. However, transportation for life or life imprisonment meant that the

prisoner was bound in law to serve the entire life term i.e. the remainder of his

life in prison. Viewed thus, unless and until his sentence was commuted or

remitted by an appropriate authority under the relevant provisions, the prisoner

could not claim any benefit. It was observed: 51. In Maru Ram (supra) while considering the effect of Section 433A of

Cr.P.C. this Court summed up the issue as under: 52. Section 53 of the IPC envisages different kinds of punishments while Section 45 of the IPC defines the word ‘life’ as the life of a human being unless

the contrary appears from the context. The life of a human being is till he is

alive that is to say till his last breath, which by very nature is one of indefinite

duration. In the light of the law laid down in Godse and Maru Ram, which law

has consistently been followed the sentence of life imprisonment as

contemplated under Section 53 read with Section 45 of the IPC means

imprisonment for rest of the life or the remainder of life of the convict. The

terminal point of the sentence is the last breath of the convict and unless the

appropriate Government commutes the punishment or remits the sentence such

terminal point would not change at all. The life imprisonment thus means

imprisonment for rest of the life of the prisoner. 53. In paras 27 and 38 of the decision in State of Haryana v. Mahender

Singh and others39 , this Court observed:- 54. The convict undergoing the life imprisonment can always apply to the

concerned authority for obtaining remission either under Articles 72 or 161 of

the Constitution or under Section 432 Cr.P.C. and the authority would be

obliged to consider the same reasonably. This was settled in the case of Godse

which view has since then been followed consistently in State of Haryana v.

Mahender Singh ( supra), State of Haryana Vs. Jagdish (supra), Sangeet Vs.

State of Haryana ( supra) and Laxman Naskar Vs. Union of India and

others40 . The right to apply and invoke the powers under these provisions does

not mean that he can claim such benefit as a matter of right based on any

arithmetical calculation as ruled in Godse. All that he can claim is a right that

his case be considered. The decision whether remissions be granted or not is

entirely left to the discretion of the concerned authorities, which discretion

ought to be exercised in a manner known to law. The convict only has right to

apply to competent authority and have his case considered in a fair and

reasonable manner. Our Answer to sub question (a) of Question in Para 52.1 is: 40 (2000) 2 SCC 595 232 Answer: The sentence of life imprisonment means imprisonment for the rest of

life or the remainder of life of the convict. Such convict can always apply for

obtaining remission either under Articles 72 of 161 of the Constitution or under

Section 432 Cr. P.C. and the authority would be obliged to consider the same

reasonably. Re: sub-question (b) of Question No.1 in Para 52.1 (b) Whether as per the principles enunciated in paragraphs 91 to
 93 of Swamy Shraddananda(2)6, a special category of sentence
 may be made for the very few cases where the death penalty might
 be substituted by the punishment for imprisonment for life or
 imprisonment for a term in excess of fourteen years and to put that
 category beyond application of remission? 55. In Swamy Shraddananda(1)4 the appellant was convicted for the offence

of murder and given death sentence, which conviction and sentence was under 56. But this leads to a more important question about the
 punishment commensurate to the appellant’s crime. The sentence
 of imprisonment for a term of 14 years, that goes under the
 euphemism of life imprisonment is equally, if not more,
 unacceptable. As a matter of fact, Mr Hegde informed us that the
 appellant was taken in custody on 28-3-1994 and submitted that by
 virtue of the provisions relating to remission, the sentence of life
 imprisonment, without any qualification or further direction would,
 in all likelihood, lead to his release from jail in the first quarter of
 2009 since he has already completed more than 14 years of
 incarceration. This eventuality is simply not acceptable to this
 Court. What then is the answer? The answer lies in breaking this
 standardisation that, in practice, renders the sentence of life
 imprisonment equal to imprisonment for a period of no more than
 14 years; in making it clear that the sentence of life imprisonment
 when awarded as a substitute for death penalty would be carried
 out strictly as directed by the Court. This Court, therefore, must lay
 down a good and sound legal basis for putting the punishment of
 imprisonment for life, awarded as substitute for death penalty,
 beyond any remission and to be carried out as directed by the
 Court so that it may be followed, in appropriate cases as a uniform
 policy not only by this Court but also by the High Courts, being the
 superior courts in their respective States. A suggestion to this effect
 was made by this Court nearly thirty years ago in Dalbir Singh v.
 State of Punjab . In para 14 of the judgment this Court held and
 observed as follows: (SCC p. 753)

 “14. The sentences of death in the present appeal are liable to be
 reduced to life imprisonment. We may add a footnote to the ruling
 in Rajendra Prasad case. Taking the cue from the English
 legislation on abolition, we may suggest that life imprisonment 234 which strictly means imprisonment for the whole of the men’s life
 but in practice amounts to incarceration for a period between 10
 and 14 years may, at the option of the convicting court, be subject
 to the condition that the sentence of imprisonment shall last as
 long as life lasts, where there are exceptional indications of
 murderous recidivism and the community cannot run the risk of the
 convict being at large. This takes care of judicial apprehensions
 that unless physically liquidated the culprit may at some remote
 time repeat murder. We think that it is time that the course suggested in Dalbir Singh should
 receive a formal recognition by the Court.” 56. The discussion in aforesaid paragraph 56 shows the concern that weighed

with this Court was the standardization rendering the sentence of life

imprisonment in practice as equal to imprisonment for a period of no more than

fourteen years. Relying on Dalbir Singh & others v. State of Punjab41 which

in turn had considered Rajendra Prasad v. State of U.P.42 , it was observed that

the Court must in appropriate cases put the punishment of life imprisonment

awarded as a substitute for death penalty, beyond any remission and direct it to

be carried out as directed by the Court. Paragraphs 91 to 93 of the decision in

Shraddananda(2) which gives rise to sub-question (b) of the first question in

the Referral Order were as under: The issue of sentencing has two aspects. A sentence may be
 excessive and unduly harsh or it may be highly disproportionately
 inadequate. When an appellant comes to this Court carrying a
 death sentence awarded by the trial court and confirmed by the
 High Court, this Court may find, as in the present appeal, that the
 case just falls short of the rarest of the rare category and may feel
 somewhat reluctant in endorsing the death sentence. But at the
 same time, having regard to the nature of the crime, the Court may
 strongly feel that a sentence of life imprisonment subject to
 remission normally works out to a term of 14 years would be
 grossly disproportionate and inadequate. What then should the
 Court do? If the Court’s option is limited only to two punishments,
 one a sentence of imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not
 more than 14 years and the other death, the Court may feel tempted
 and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty. Such a
 course would indeed be disastrous. A far more just, reasonable and
 proper course would be to expand the options and to take over
 what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the Court i.e. the vast
 hiatus between 14 years’ imprisonment and death. It needs to be
 emphasised that the Court would take recourse to the expanded
 option primarily because in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14
 years’ imprisonment would amount to no punishment at all. 93. Further, the formalisation of a special category of sentence,
 though for an extremely few number of cases, shall have the great
 advantage of having the death penalty on the statute book but to
 actually use it as little as possible, really in the rarest of rare cases.
 This would only be a reassertion of the Constitution Bench
 decision in Bachan Singh besides being in accord with the modern
 trends in penology.” 57. Finally, in paragraph 95 of its Judgment in Shraddananda(2)6 this

Court substituted the death sentence given to the appellant to that of

imprisonment for life and directed that he would not be released from the prison

till the rest of his life. While doing so, this Court made it clear that it was not

dealing with powers of the President and the Governor under Article 72 and 161 236 of the Constitution but only with provisions of commutation, remission etc. as

contained in the Cr.P.C . and the Prison Acts, as would be evident from

paragraph 77 of the judgment which was to the following effect:- 58. The decision in Shraddananda(2)6 is premised on the following: The view so taken in Shraddananda(2)6 has been followed in some of

the later Bench decisions of this Court. It is the correctness of this view and

more particularly whether it is within the powers of the Court to put the

sentence of life imprisonment so awarded beyond application of remissions,

which is presently in question. 59. We must at the outset state that while commuting the death sentence to

that of imprisonment for life, this Court in V. Sreedhar v. Union of India (supra)5 had not put any fetters or restrictions on the power of commutation

and/or remission. In fact paragraph 32 of the decision expressly mentions that

the sentence so awarded is subject to any remission granted by the Appropriate

Government under Section 432 of Cr.P.C. Strictly speaking, sub-question (b) of 238 the first question does not arise for consideration insofar as the present writ

petition is concerned and that precisely was the submission of Mr. Rakesh

Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate. However since the question has been

referred for our decision we proceed to deal with said sub-question (b) of

question No.1. Further a doubt has been expressed in Sangeet v. State of

Haryana (supra) regarding correctness of the decision in Shraddananda(2)6 in

following words: 60. The decision of this Court in Maru Ram (Supra) refers to the

background which preceded the introduction of Section 433 A in Cr. P.C. The

Joint Committee which went into the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill had 239 suggested that a long enough minimum sentence should be suffered by both

classes of lifers namely, those guilty of offence where death sentence was one

of the alternatives and where the death sentence was commuted to

imprisonment for life. Paragraph 5 of the decision in Maru Ram sets out the

objects and reasons, relevant notes on clauses and the recommendations and

was to the following effect: 61. Shraddananda(2)6 referred to earlier decision of this Court in Dalbir

Singh and others v. State of Punjab (supra). In that decision, taking cue from

English Legislation on abolition of death penalty, a suggestion was made in

following words:- 62. Committee of Reforms on Criminal Justice System under the

Chairmanship of Dr. Justice Malimath in its report submitted in the year 2003

recommended suitable amendments to introduce a punishment higher than life

imprisonment and lesser than death penalty, similar to that which exists in USA

namely “Imprisonment for life without commutation or remission”. The 241 relevant paragraphs of Malimath Committee Report namely paragraphs 14.7.1

and 14.7.2 were as under:- 63. In its report submitted in January 2013, Committee on Amendment to

Criminal Law under the chairmanship of Justice J.S. Verma made following

recommendations on life imprisonment:- Thus what was implicit in the sentence for imprisonment of life as laid down in Godse and followed since then has now been made explicit by the Parliament in

certain Sections of the IPC . However, none of the amendments reflected the

introduction of punishment suggested by Malimath Committee. 64. Thus despite recommendations of Justice Malimath Committee to 243 introduce a punishment higher than life imprisonment and lesser than death

penalty similar to the one which exists in USA, Parliament has chosen not to

act in terms of recommendations for last 12 years. In this backdrop, it was

submitted by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate that in

Shraddananda(2)6 this court in fact carved out and created a new form of

punishment and resorted to making a legislation on the point. It was further

submitted that Section 433A of Cr.P.C. prescribes minimum actual

imprisonment which must be undergone in cases of life imprisonment on two

counts, where death sentence is one of the alternatives or where death sentence

is commuted to imprisonment for life. Even the prisoner who at one point of

time was awarded a death sentence is entitled, upon his death sentence being

commuted to life imprisonment, to be considered under Section 433A. In his

submission, it would not be within the powers of the court to put the sentence of

life imprisonment in such cases beyond application of remissions, in the teeth of

the Statute. Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina, learned Senior Advocate appearing for one

of the intervenors submitted that what is within the domain of the judiciary is

power to grant or award sentence as prescribed and when it comes to its

execution the domain is that of the executive. In his submission howsoever

strong be the temptation on account of gravity of the crime, there could be no

trenching into the power of the executive. He submitted that it is not for the

judiciary to say that there could be no commutation at all, which would be

violative of the concept of separation of powers. Reliance was placed on 244 Section 32A of NDPS Act to contend that wherever the Parliament intended that

there be no remissions in respect of any offence, it has chosen to say so in

specific terms. 65. In a recent decision of this Court in Vikram Singh @ Vicky & another v.

Union of India and others43, while considering challenge to the award of death

sentence for an offence under Section 364A of the IPC this Court considered

various decisions on the issue of punishment. It considered some American

decisions holding that fixing of prison terms for specific crimes involves a

substantive penalogical judgment which is properly within the province of

legislatures and not courts and that the responsibility for making fundamental

choices and implementing them lies with the legislature. In the end, the

conclusions (b), (c) and (d) as summed up by this Court were as under: 66. Section 302 IPC prescribes two punishments, the maxima being the death

sentence and the minima to be life sentence. Shraddananada(2)6 proceeds on

the footing that the court may in certain cases take recourse to the expanded

 43 AIR 2015 SC 3577 245 option namely the hiatus between imprisonment for 14 years and the death

sentence, if the facts of the case so justify. The hiatus thus contemplated is

between the minima i.e. 14 years and the maxima being the death sentence. In

fact going by the punishment prescribed in the statute there is no such hiatus

between the life imprisonment and the death sentence. There is nothing that can

stand in between these two punishments as life imprisonment, going by the law laid down in Godse’s case is till the end of one’s life. What Shraddananda(2)6

has done is to go by the practical experience of the life imprisonment getting

reduced to imprisonment for a period of not more that 14 years and assess that

level to be the minima and then consider a hiatus between that level and the

death sentence. In our view this assumption is not correct. What happens on the

practical front cannot be made basis for creating a sentence by the Courts. That

part belongs specifically to the legislature. If the experience in practice shows

that remissions are granted in unsound manner, the matter can be corrected in

exercise of judicial review. In any case in the light of our discussion in answer

to Question in Para 52.6, in cases of remissions under Section 432 / 433 of

Cr.P.C. an approach will necessarily have to be made to the Court, which will

afford sufficient check and balance. 67. It may be relevant to note at this state that in England and Wales, the

mandatory life sentence for murder is contained in Section 1(1) of the Murder

(Abolition of the Death Penalty) Act, 1965. The Criminal Justice Act, 2003

empowers a trial judge, in passing a mandatory life sentence, to determine the 246 minimum term which the prisoner must serve before he is eligible for early

release on licence. The statute allows the trial judge to decide that because of

the seriousness of the offence, the prisoner should not be eligible for early

release (in effect to make a “whole life order” that is to say till the end of his

life. In effect, the recommendations of Malimath Committee were on similar

lines to add a new form of punishment which could similarly empower the

Courts to impose such punishment and state that the prisoner would not be

entitled to remissions. Section 32A of the NDPS Act is also an example in that

behalf. What is crucial to note is the specific empowerment under the Statute by

which a prisoner could be denied early release or remissions.

It ma 68. Shraddananda (2)6 does not proceed on the ground that upon

interpretation of the concerned provision such as Section 302 of the IPC, such

punishment is available for the court to impose. If that be so it would be

available to even the first court i.e. Sessions Court to impose such sentence and

put the matter beyond any remissions. In a given case the matter would not go

before the superior court and it is possible that there may not be any further

assessment by the superior court. If on the other hand one were to say that the

power could be traceable to the power of confirmation in a death sentence 247 which is available to the High Court under Chapter XXVIII of Cr.P.C ., even the

High Court while considering death reference could pass only such sentence as

is available in law. Could the power then be traced to Article 142 of the

Constitution? 69. In Prem Chand Garg and another v. Excise Commissioner, U.P. and

others44, Constitution Bench of this Court observed:- 70. Further, in theory it is possible to say that even in cases where court were

to find that the offence belonged to the category of “rarest of rare” and deserved

death penalty, such death convicts can still be granted benefit under Section

432 / 433 of Cr.P.C. In fact, Section 433A contemplates such a situation. On the

other hand, if the court were to find that the case did not belong to the “rarest of

rare” category and were to put the matter beyond any remissions, the prisoner in

the latter category would stand being denied the benefit which even the prisoner

of the level of a death convict could possibly be granted under Section 432 / 433 249 of the Cr.P.C. The one who in the opinion of the Court deserved death sentence

can thus get the benefit but the one whose case fell short to meet the criteria of

“rarest of rare” and the Court was hesitant to grant death sentence, would

languish in Jail for entirety of his life, without any remission. If absolute

‘irrevocability of death sentence’ weighs with the Court in not awarding death

sentence, can the life imprisonment ordered in the alternative be so directed that

the prospects of remissions on any count stand revoked for such prisoner. In

our view, it cannot be so ordered. 71. We completely share the concern as expressed in Shraddananda(2)6 that at

times remissions are granted in extremely unsound manner but in our view that

by itself would not and ought not to nudge a judge into endorsing a death

penalty. If the offence in question falls in the category of the “rarest of rare” the

consequence may be inevitable. But that cannot be a justification to create a

new form of punishment putting the matter completely beyond remission.

Parliament having stipulated mandatory minimum actual imprisonment at the

level of 14 years, in law a prisoner would be entitled to apply for remission

under the statute. If his case is made out, it is for the executive to consider and

pass appropriate orders. Such orders would inter alia consider not only the

gravity of the crime but also other circumstances including whether the prisoner

has now been de-sensitized and is ready to be assimilated in the society. It

would not be proper to prohibit such consideration by the executive. While

doing so and putting the matter beyond remissions, the court would in fact be 250 creating a new punishment. This would mean- though a model such a Section

32A was available before the Legislature and despite recommendation by

Malimath Committee, no such punishment was brought on the Statute yet the

Court would create such punishment and enforce it in an individual case. In our

view, that would not be permissible. 72. In Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan v. Union of India and others , while

emphasizing that the court cannot rewrite, recast or reframe the legislation it

was observed as under:- 73. The power under Section 432 / 433 Cr.P.C. and the one exercisable under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution, as laid down in Maru Ram (supra) are

streams flowing in the same bed. Both seek to achieve salutary purpose. As

observed in Kehar Singh (supra) in Clemency jurisdiction it is permissible to

examine whether the case deserves the grant of relief and cut short the sentence

in exercise of executive power which abridges the enforcement of a judgment.

Clemency jurisdiction would normally be exercised in the exigencies of the

case and fact situation as obtaining when the occasion to exercise the power

arises. Any order putting the punishment beyond remission will prohibit

exercise of statutory power designed to achieve same purpose under Section

432 / 433 Cr.P.C.. In our view Courts cannot and ought not deny to a prisoner

the benefit to be considered for remission of sentence. By doing so, the

prisoner would be condemned to live in the prison till the last breath without

there being even a ray of hope to come out. This stark reality will not be

conducive to reformation of the person and will in fact push him into a dark

hole without there being semblance of the light at the end of the tunnel. 74. As stated in Prem Chand Garg (supra) an order in exercise of power

under Article 142 of the Constitution of India must not only be consistent with

the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but it cannot even be

inconsistent with the substantive provisions of the relevant statutory laws. In A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Naik48a direction by which the petitioner was denied a

statutory right of appeal was recalled. A fortiorari, a statutory right of
 48 (1988) 2 SCC 602 252 approaching the authority under Section 432 / 433 Cr.P.C. which authority can,

as laid down in Kehar Singh (supra) and Epuru Sudhakar (supra) eliminate the

effect of conviction, cannot be denied under the orders of the Court. 75. The law on the point of life imprisonment as laid down in Godse’s case

(supra) is clear that life imprisonment means till the end of one’s life and that by

very nature the sentence is indeterminable. Any fixed term sentence

characterized as minimum which must be undergone before any remission

could be considered, cannot affect the character of life imprisonment but such

direction goes and restricts the exercise of power of remission before the expiry

of such stipulated period. In essence, any such direction would increase or

expand the statutory period prescribed under Section 433A of Cr.P.C. Any such

stipulation of mandatory minimum period inconsistent with the one in Section

433A, in our view, would not be within the powers of the Court. Our answer to Sub Question (b) of Question in Para 52.1 is: Answer. In our view, it would not be open to the Court to make any special

category of sentence in substitution of death penalty and put that category

beyond application of remission, nor would it be permissible to stipulate any

mandatory period of actual imprisonment inconsistent with the one prescribed

under Section 433A of Cr. P.C. 253 76. Reference answered accordingly. W. P (CRL.) Nos.185, 150, 66 OF 2014 & Crl. Appeal NO.1215 OF 2011 These Writ Petitions and Criminal Appeal are disposed of in terms of the

decision in Writ Petition (Criminal) No.48 of 2014. 77. Our conclusions in respect of Questions referred in the Referral Order,

except in respect of sub question (b) of Question in Para 52.1 of the Referral

Order, are in conformity with those in the draft judgment of Hon’ble Kalifulla

J. Since our view in respect of sub question (b) of Question in Para 52.1 of the

Referral Order is not in agreement with that of Hon’ble Kalifulla J., while

placing our view we have dealt with other questions as well. ……………………………..……J.
 (Abhay Manohar Sapre)

 ……………………………..……J.
 (Uday Umesh Lalit)

New Delhi,
December 2, 2015 254 [

 Reportable
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (Crl.) No. 48 OF 2014

Union of India …..….Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

V. Sriharan @ Murugan & Ors. ……Respondent(s)

With

Writ Petition (Crl.) No.185/2014
Writ Petition (Crl.) No.150/2014
Writ Petition (Crl.) No.66/2014
Criminal Appeal No.1215/2011

Abhay Manohar Sapre, J. 1. I have had the benefit of reading the elaborate, well
considered and scholarly written two separate draft opinions
proposed to be pronounced by my learned Brothers Justice
Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla and Justice Uday Umesh
Lalit. 2. Having gone through the opinions of both the learned
Brothers very carefully and minutely, with respect, I am in
agreement with the reasoning and the conclusion arrived at by
my Brother Justice Uday Umesh Lalit in answering the reference. 3. Since I agree with the line of reasoning and the conclusion 255 arrived at by my Brother Justice Uday Umesh Lalit while
answering the questions referred to this Bench, I do not consider
it necessary to give my separate reasoning nor do I wish to add
anything more to what has been said by Brother Lalit J. in his
opinion. 4. In my view, it is only when some issues are not dealt with or
though dealt with but requires some elaboration, the same can
be supplemented while concurring. I, however, do not find any
scope to meet such eventuality in this case and therefore no
useful purpose would be served in writing an elaborate
concurring opinion. ..……..................................J.
 [ABHAY MANOHAR SAPRE]
New Delhi; December 02, 2015. appropriate three learned Judges' Bench for appropriate 258 orders and directions in the light of the majority

Judgment of this Court. ...................CJI
 (H.L. DATTU)

 …...............................J.
 (FAKKIR MOHAMED IBRAHIM KALIFULLA)

 ....................J.
 (PINAKI CHANDRA GHOSE)

 …..................J.
 (ABHAY MANOHAR SAPRE)

 …..................J.
 (UDAY UMESH LALIT)
 NEW DELHI,
 DECEMBER 02, 2015. Date : 02/12/2015 These petitions/appeal were called
 on for pronouncement of Judgment today. For Petitioner(s) Mr.Ranjit Kumar, Sol.Gen.of India
 Ms.V.Mohana, Sr.Adv. Mrs. Binu Tamta, Adv. Mr. Dhruv Tamta, Adv. Mr.D.L.Chidananda,Adv. Ms.Movita, Adv. Mr.R.K.Verma, Adv. Mr. B. Krishna Prasad,Adv. Ms.Sushma Suri, Adv. Mr. Sinha Shrey Nikhilesh, Adv.. Mr.Sarthak Sachdev,Adv. Mr.Toyesh Tewari, Adv. Mr.Jai Sahai Endlaw,Adv. Mr.Shouryendu Ray,Adv. Mr. Maanav Kumar, Adv. Mr.harish Kr.Khinchi,Adv. Mr.Vinay Navare, Adv. Ms. Abha R. Sharma,Adv. Mr. Harshvir Pratap Sharma, Adv. Mr. Ajay Sharma, Adv. Mr.Pankaj Kumar, Adv. Mr.Varinder Kumar Sharma, Adv. Mr. Varun Thakur, Adv. Ms. Shraddha Saran, Adv. Ms. Meera Kaura Patel, Adv. Mr.S.C.Patel, Adv. Mr. Tejas Patel, Adv. For Respondent(s) Mr.Rakesh Dwivedi, Sr.Adv. Mr.Kabir S.Bose, Adv. Mr.Anip Sachthey, Adv. Ms. Sansriti Pathak, Adv. Ms. Shagun Matta, Adv. Ms. Hancy Wadhwa, Adv. Date : 02/12/2015 These petitions/appeal were called on for
 pronouncement of Judgment today. The reference is answered by Hon'ble the Chief Justie,
Hon'ble Mr.Justice Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla, Hon'ble
Mr.Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose and Hon'ble Mr.Justice Abha Manohar 264 Sapre and Hon'ble Mr.Justice Uday Umesh Lalit by the Bench
comprising of Hon'ble the Chief Justice, Hon'ble Mr.Justice Fakkir
Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla, Hon'ble Mr.Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose
and Hon'ble Mr.Justice Abha Manohar Sapre and Hon'ble Mr.Justice
Uday Umesh Lalit, in terms of two separate signed reportable
Judgments. Hon.the Chief Justice, Hon.Mr.Justice Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim
 Kalifulla, Hon.Mr.Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose and the other
 by Hon.Mr.Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre and Hon.Mr.Justice Uday
 Umesh Lalit and a separate short note by Hon'ble Mr.Jusitce
 Abhay Manohar Sapre, agreeing with the view of the Hon'ble
 Mr.Justice Uday Umesh Lalit is also separately attached
 herewith are placed on the file)