Bharatiya Janata Party MP, Bharti Pardhi from Madhya Pradesh introduced a private member’s bill, the Artificial Intelligence (Ethics and Accountability) Bill, 2025 , during the ongoing Winter Session of the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament. The AI Ethics bill aims to “establish an ethics and accountability framework for the use of artificial intelligence technologies.” Although dated Jan. 20, 2025, Pardhi introduced the bill on Dec. 5, 2025, according to the Parliament website.

However, the Bill doesn’t offer a comprehensive overlook on the various AI-related issues, like copyright and the rightful compensation, and the clear process to be followed for obtaining legal licences. The Bill merely proposes the establishment of an AI Ethics Committee comprising several “experts” to develop ethical guidelines and ensure compliance with the same.

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is defined in the bill as “computer systems or applications capable of performing tasks that typically require human intelligence, including but not limited to decision-making, language processing, and visual perception.”

The proposed bill calls for the formation of a centrally funded “Ethics Committee for Artificial Intelligence (AI),” constituting the following numbers:

The committee should also ensure the prevention of algorithmic bias by conducting regular audits of AI systems to identify and mitigate bias. It also has to ensure that AI companies are using diverse and inclusive training datasets, and withdrawing AI systems that exhibit significant bias until “corrective measures” are implemented.

The committee is supposed to be conferred with the following responsibilities:

As per the Bill, every AI developer should comply with the following:

The committee also has a grievance redressal mechanism and investigative powers to let users file complaints regarding “misuse or harm caused by AI technologies.”

The Bill cites the rapid expansion of artificial intelligence technologies as a driver of economic and social progress, while warning that their unchecked use raises serious ethical and regulatory concerns. These include algorithmic bias, misuse of surveillance capabilities, and a lack of transparency and accountability in automated decision-making systems.

According to the Bill, the proposed legislation seeks to address these risks by:

The Bill claims to adopt a balanced approach, aiming to encourage the positive uses of AI while putting safeguards in place against misuse. It proposes the creation of an independent ethics committee and the imposition of penalties for violations, with the stated objective of ensuring that AI technologies operate in the public interest and align with democratic values.

The Bill proposes that AI systems for surveillance should be limited to “lawful purposes with prior approval of the Committee.” However, it doesn’t offer further explanation on what would constitute “lawful purposes”, leaving the power to interpret to the proposed AI Ethics Committee.

Additionally, the bill also suggests that AI systems deployed in law enforcement, financial credit and employment should be free of discrimination on the basis of race, religion and gender. These safeguard mechanisms are to be “subjected to stringent ethical reviews by the Committee.”

Recently, both central and state governments have been trying to leverage AI technologies to surveil their citizens. For instance, recently, on December 17, the Maharashtra government announced the state-wide rollout of MahaCrimeOS AI, expanding the system from a pilot in Nagpur district to all 1,100 police stations across the state to assist police in analysing cybercrime complaints, drafting first information reports (FIRs) and legal notices, and even recommending the investigation pathways. The Maharashtra government was also planning to create an AI-powered command control centre to advance the existing predictive policing mechanisms that the state police began using in February 2024.

Similarly, Hyderabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar, who executed the extrajudicial encounter of four alleged accused in the Disha gang rape and murder case in 2019, also revealed that they are planning to use AI in police investigations. For some additional context on Hyderabad, it is one of the most CCTV-surveilled cities in India. In addition to measures to empower their existing surveillance tools, the Telangana police also floated a tender inviting bids for four cyber-tech tools, including tools that can break the existing end-to-end encryption protocol on platforms like WhatsApp and also tools to monitor online conversations and news. They also want a tool that can snoop into the citizen’s device that doesn’t alert the user and doesn’t even leave a trace in the device.

Similarly, the Goa Police is creating a ‘radical content analyser’ tool to monitor both online and offline content. Reportedly, the Uttar Pradesh Police also used the AI-powered CCTV cameras to control the crowd during the landmark Mahakumbh Mela.

India currently lacks dedicated legislation to regulate AI. The Indian government repeatedly kept saying that it doesn’t want to regulate AI and doesn’t want to bring new laws addressing AI-related concerns.

In light of these, the AI companies continue to blatantly exploit the content available on the internet without giving either the credit or the “compensation” for relying on the so-called “public data”. This reality makes it essential to study and develop existing policy-oriented questions, even for private member bills, whose chances of debate or passage remain extremely low. The following points outline some of the many valid arguments policymakers should consider before framing any AI-related policy or legislation.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event