1. This is a suit for declaration filed by the plaintiff against the
defendants seeking a declaration that the plaintiff society is the
actual and lawful owner of the property measuring 31 bighas
comprised in Khasra Nos. 206/2, 208/2, 209, 210/2 and 211/2,
Basai Dara Pur, Rothak Road, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to
as the "suit property") with consequential relief of mandatory
injunction seeking a direction for the defendants to
transfer/convey the suit property in the name of the plaintiff. 2. The case of the plaintiff as per the plaint is that the plaintiff
society was initially formed as an Association for re-settlement of CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 1 of 35 people belonging to Jhang (Pakistan), who migrated from
Pakistan to India after partition. The Association decided to take in
auction from the Government the property at Basai Dara Pur,
Delhi comprised in Khasra Nos. 206, 207, 208, 209, 210 and 211
measuring 61 bighas and 6 biswas (hereinafter referred to as the " 3. It is averred in the plaint that after having made the entire
payment, the Association requested the Assistant Settlement
Commissioner, Delhi to issue Sale Certificate for the said land. It
is stated that out of the entire payment made for the purchase of
the said land, some amount came from the members of the
Association while some other people who were not the members
of the Association had paid the rest. Accordingly, out of the said
land measuring 61 bighas 6 biswas, land measuring 30 bighas 6
biswas was acquired and the remaining land measuring 31 bighas
(the suit property) remained vested in the Association. Later on, it
was decided by the Association that payments be made to the
non-members of the Association who had paid some money in the
bid amount. For this purpose, some members of the Association
made contributions. The names of some of them are given in Para
8 of the plaint. 4. Vide a General Power of Attorney dated 16th April, 1960
which was executed by late Sh. Amir Chand and Sh. Brij Lal, Sh.
Matwal Chand was appointed as the Secretary of the Association.
Certificate of sale pertaining to the suit property was issued in the
name of Amir Chand and Sh. Brij Lal. However, later on Sh. Amir
Chand and Sh. Brij Lal were not interested in continuing as
members of the Association and wanted to move out by taking
their share as per market value after a portion of land was taken
over by the Government. The sale deed pertaining to the
remaining land (i.e. the suit property) was to be executed in the
name of the Association, however, since the Association was not
registered, it was decided that pending registration of the suit
property be transferred in the name of the new Secretary, Sh.
Matwal Chand. Accordingly, sale deed dated 16th May, 1962 was
executed pertaining to the suit property in the name of the
Secretary of the Association, Sh. Matwal Chand. 5. The Association was thereafter converted into a regular
society, i.e. the plaintiff herein, registered under the Societies
Registration Act on 23rd, January, 1996. Sh. Matwal Chand was
re-appointed as the Secretary of the plaintiff. 6. As stated earlier, out of the land measuring 61 bighas 6
biswas, land measuring 30 bighas 6 biswas was acquired and
compensation was disbursed. The remaining land i.e. the suit
property measuring 31 bighas was also sought to be acquired for
which acquisition proceedings were started. The said acquisition
proceedings were challenged by way of Writ Petition (W.P. (C) CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 3 of 35 697/1983) in the name of Sh. Matwal Chand since in the official
records, the suit property was in his name. The said writ petition
was allowed vide order dated 15th April, 2004. The said order was
challenged by Union of India before the Supreme Court by way of
an special leave petition which was pending at the time of filing of
this suit. 7. On 21st October, 2006, Sh. Matwal Chand expired and was
survived by his legal heirs - two sons and a daughter, who are
defendants No. 1 to 3 herein. It is averred by the plaintiff that after
demise of Sh. Matwal Chand, the intentions of defendants
gradually became malafide. They started dealing with civic
authorities and revenue authorities in their own name. The
mutation in their names was affected in the February, 2009,
however, the said fact came to the knowledge of the plaintiff in
2011, before filing of the suit. 8. It is averred that the said mutation is illegal, fraudulent and
capricious which does not confer any title or ownership rights on
the defendants. The plaintiff continues to be the rightful and actual
owner of the suit property and the mutation obtained by the
defendants is liable to be declared null and void. Hence this suit. 9. Defendants have filed their written statement. Defendants
also filed application being I.A. No. 13043/2011 under Order 7
Rule 11 CPC . Subsequently, the plaintiff filed I.A. No. 16791/2011
under Order 6 Rule 17 CPC . Both these applications are pending
for disposal where the parties have addressed their submissions. I.A. No.13043/2011 ( Order 7 Rule 11 CPC ) 10. Defendants' in their application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC have averred that the suit as framed is not maintainable. Neither
the plaintiff has any title in the suit property nor Sh. Gulab Singh,
who has claimed himself to be President of the Society, has any
title to the suit property. Plaintiff has concealed material facts and
also distorted facts including court proceedings, wherein individual
interest has been claimed by Gulab Singh and others in
contradistinction to the claim made on behalf of plaintiff in the
present suit. 11. The suit is not valued correctly for the purposes of court fees
and jurisdiction. The sale deed in favour of Sh. Matwal Chand was
executed on 16th May, 1962. More than 48 years have elapsed
from the date of execution of the sale deed which is now sought to
be set aside by filing the present suit despite of having full
knowledge about the sale deed. The same is barred by limitation. 12. Though the suit property was purchased on 16th May, 1962,
no one claimed any interest in the suit property since that time
except by way of filing the present suit by the plaintiff. Plaintiff
itself is not claiming to be the owner of the suit property and
appears to be espousing the cause of its so called members, who
individually have not claimed any interest in the said property.
Consequently, suit is barred by the provisions of Benami
Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988 and suit is not maintainable in
view of provisions of Section 4 of the said Act. 13. It is submitted by the defendants during the course of
hearing that the plaint itself mentions the cause of action having
accrued when the suit property was conveyed from the name of
earlier owners to the name Sh. Matwal Chand, i.e. in the year
1962. This fact has been in the knowledge of all the so called
members of the plaintiff society, as is apparent from reading of
various paragraphs of the plaint. Even Sh. Matwal Chand died on
21st October, 2006, who is alleged to have acted against the
interest of plaintiff and that means prior to his death and as such
the suit filed in the year 2011 on the face of it is barred by
limitation. 14. After conveying of the suit property in favour of Sh. Matwal
Chand in the year 1962, no fresh cause of action can be said to
have been occurred giving rise an occasion to the plaintiff to file
the suit in the year 2011. The suit filed in the year 2011 is barred
by limitation as decree of declaration has been sought in respect
of suit property that plaintiff is the actual, bonafide and genuine
owner of the suit property. 15. Once the plaintiff knew that the suit property was transferred
to Sh. Matwal Chand in the year 1962, the suit is barred by
limitation and the cause of action not being a re-occurring event
and right to sue having occurred immediately at that time, the suit
is liable to be dismissed having been filed beyond a period of
three years under Article 58/59 of Limitation Act . 16. Learned counsel for the plaintiff in order to give reply on
limitation stated that the suit has been filed seeking declaration
and mandatory injunction and not for cancellation of the sale
deed. It is against the illegal mutation effected by the defendant
in 2009 regarding the suit property, thus, a fresh cause of action
has arisen and suit is filed in 2011 which is within limitation. 17. With regard to merit of the case, various submissions are
made by the plaintiff with regard to malafide conduct of Matwal
Chand. It is submitted that in fact he has played a fraud upon the
Society, however, it is not denied by the counsel that the Society
was registered in the year 1996 after 34 years from the execution
of sale deed of the suit property and the suit has been filed after
15 years from the date of registration of society and death of
Matwal Chand. It is not denied by the plaintiff and/or its members
that they were aware about the registration of sale deed in 1962
itself. 18. On legal issue, it is submitted by the plaintiff that the
application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC contains allegations and
averments which are factual in nature and thus it requires
evidence and cannot come under the ambit of Order 7 Rule 11
CPC as several triable issues has been raised by the plaintiff
which needs evidence and adjudication. The plaint bears sufficient
cause of action for trial as on perusal of paragraphs of the plaint
being paras 5 to 9 and 17 to 21, which makes sufficient averments
and bears adequate cause of action for the suit to go for trial. The
suit filed by the plaintiff is maintainable as when fraud and CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 7 of 35 misrepresentation is alleged there is enough cause of action to try
the suit in accordance with law as the averments made in the
plaint deals with mixed question of law and facts which raises
triable issues which can only be decided by leading evidence. 19. The said land was acquired prior to the alleged sale deed in
favour of father of the defendant Shri Matwal Chand. It is stated
that the said land was acquired by the Land Acquisition
Department vide notification dated 6th January, 1961 and an
award was passed on 7th December, 1961 and the alleged sale
deed was executed on 16th May, 1962 and it is well settled that no
transfer of suit property could have been effected after the land
was acquired by the Government as such the sale deed was non-
est in the eyes of law. 20. It is stated that Shri Matwal Chand was not the owner of the
suit property by virtue of the sale deed executed in his favour. It is
stated that Shri Matwal Chand was the General Secretary of the
plaintiff Society and the sale deed was executed for the benefit of
the plaintiff society as in the award passed by the Land
Acquisition Collector on 7th December, 1961 it has been held that
compensation as awarded was to go to plaintiff Society and not to
Shri Matwal Chand. In the amended plaint it is stated that the
plaintiff society is now claiming its possession of part of the suit
property from the inception i.e. 1958 till date as the society has an
office in the suit property and has been performing their work from
the said office. 21. It is argued by Mr.Arun Bhardwaj, learned Senior counsel
appearing on behalf of the plaintiff that there is no force in the
arguments of the defendants who have alleged that the suit of the
plaintiff is barred by limitation. It is stated that the plaintiff has
averred in the plaint that the suit land belonged to the plaintiff
Society and that only in 2011 it came to the knowledge of the
plaintiff Society that in February, 2009 the defendants had
mutated the suit property in their names fraudulently and were
trying to sell of the same without any legal right as such the suit is
within the period of limitation and is not barred by provisions of
law. 22. It is also argued by the learned Senior counsel, that the
plaint discloses some cause of action or raises some questions fit
to be decided by the Court, mere fact that the case is weak and
not likely to succeed is no ground for striking it out. This
proposition of law has been laid down in the case of Sangeeta
Garg Vs. Deepak Bansal & Another,155 (2008) DLT 173 (DB). 23. Reliance was placed by the plaintiff on the case of Vijay
Pratap Singh Vs. Dukh Haran Nath Singh , AIR 1962 SC 941,
wherein the Supreme Court held as under : 24. It is submitted that the same view has been taken by the
Supreme Court in Popat and Kotecha Property Vs. State Bank
of India Staff Association , (2005) 7 SCC 510 Para 10, wherein
it has been held that disputed question cannot be decided at the
time of considering an application filed under Order 7 Rule 11
CPC . 25. Another decision was referred by the plaintiff in Mayar
(H.K.) Ltd. Vs. Owners & Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune
Express , 2006 AIR (SC) 1828, wherein the Supreme Court
observed as under : 26. It is argued that the suit is not barred by limitation as alleged
as fraud has been alleged by the plaintiff and it is well settled that
the limitation begins to run from the date plaintiff discovers fraud
played upon him and not from the date of execution of the sale
deed and other transfer documents etc, as alleged in the plaint
and the same proposition of law has been held to be good by the
Supreme Court and reliance is placed on Ningawwa Vs. Byrappa
Shiddappa Hireknrabarand , AIR 1968 S.C. 956 and Virendra
Singh vs. Kashiram, AIR 2004 Rajasthan 196, where in it was
held that it is not the date of execution of Gift Deed but time when
fraud became to known to the plaintiff. 27. It is argued that as the acts and deeds of the defendants of
mutating the property in February, 2009 after the death of their
father Shri Matwal Chand in 2006 came to be known to the
plaintiff in the year 2011 thus the suit is well within the period of
limitation. The plaintiff has taken several grounds to succeed in
the above matter both in the plaint and also in the amended plaint
which could not attract rejection of the plaint. 28. It is also argued on behalf of plaintiff that it is held by several
decisions rendered by Supreme Court that where fraud is alleged
by the petitioner then the limitation starts running from the date of
knowledge and not from the date of execution and thus Articles CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 11 of 35 58 , 59 and 64 of Limitation Act, 1963 is not attracted and the suit
cannot be held to be barred by limitation. Reliance is placed on
Rameshwar Dubey vs. Masomat Asha Kaur, (1996) 11 SCC
160 and Md.Noorul Hoda vs. Bibi Raifunnisa, (1996) 7 SCC 767. 29. The plaintiff has affixed proper and sufficient court fee on
the plaint and there is no deficiency in the same as the suit land is
under acquisition and the compensation awarded is Rs.3000/- per
bigha. The area of land is 31 Bighas and even if interest is added
to the above amount, the value of land shall not exceed Rs.21
lakhs as valued by the plaintiff. 30. Amendment has been sought of the plaint and certain
documents have been filed along with the amendment application
in order to show that the suit land belonged to plaintiff Society
even as per para 22 of the award passed. 31. Mr.Rajiv Nayar, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf
of the defendants, opposed the prayer made in the amendment
application. He argued that the suit is totally misconceived,
barred by limitation and is not maintainable as per original plaint.
The application under Order 6 Rule 17 CPC is not maintainable as
by virtue thereof, the plaintiff introducing entirely new case and
also trying to withdraw the admissions made in the original plaint. 32. There is no dispute about the settled legal proposition that it
is only the averments made in the plaint and the accompanying
documents which can be gone into for the purpose of dealing with CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 12 of 35 an application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC . The statements of
plaintiff No.1 and plaintiff No.2 recorded under Order 10 CPC can
also be seen for this limited purpose. In T.Arivandandam vs.
T.V. Satyapal , (1977) 4 SCC 467, the Supreme Court while
dealing with the powers of the Court under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC had noted that where the meaningful reading of the plaint
disclosed that the suit which had been filed was in fact vexatious
and meritless; it being a case of clever drafting which has created
the illusion of a cause of action, it must be nipped in the bud by
the Court. 33. As far as the reliance of decisions referred by the plaintiff is
concerned, there is no dispute that while deciding the application
under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC , the plaint and documents filed along
with plaint are to be read and considered in meaningful manner.
In case, the Court finds that the defendant is not able to make a
case under any part of the said provision, the plaint cannot be
rejected. The benefit of doubt on the issue of limitation would go
in favour of the plaintiff, however, at the same time if it is apparent
on the face of the plaint that the plaint does not disclose cause of
action and the suit is apparently barred by law, then the plaint is to
be rejected. 34. The plaintiff is claiming declaration in the present suit, no
relief is sought for cancellation of sale deed dated 16th May,
1962, whereunder Sh. Matwal Chand drew title. Even no relief is
sought for possession. In the original plaint, the plaintiff has not CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 13 of 35 averred or claimed possession of the suit property. Suit having
been filed for mere declaration without possession. Besides there
is no averment of plaintiff being in possession, which fact on the
contrary having been asserted by the defendants that they are in
possession and no relief has been claimed for possession and the
suit has not been valued for the relief of possession for the
purposes of court fees nor any ad valorem court fees having been
paid on the market value of the suit property. 35. From the reading of the plaint, neither the plaintiff nor Sh.
Gulab Singh, who has claimed himself to be President of the
Society, has any title to the suit property. Admittedly, as
mentioned in paragraph 11 of the plaint, plaintiff society was
formed in the year 1996. 36. It has been pleaded to the knowledge of the plaintiff that
sale deed in respect of the suit property in favour of predecessor
in interest of the defendants was executed on 16th May, 1962 as
per paragraph 10 of the plaint. No prayer is made in the plaint for
cancellation of sale deed or to seek declaration that the sale deed
is null and void nor the plaintiff has paid the court fee as per value
of the property. 37. In paragraph 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, it is stated that as per
the version of the plaintiff, all these acts had taken place with the
knowledge of the members of the plaintiff society. The plaintiff
has filed the present suit in the year 2011 i.e. after 49 years from
the date of execution of the sale deed. 38. In paragraph 21 of the plaint it is mentioned that the cause
of action accrued when the suit property was conveyed from the
name of earlier owners to the name of predecessor in interest of
defendant, i.e. in the year 1962. This fact has been in the
knowledge of the members of the plaintiff society, as it is apparent
from reading of the paragraphs of the plaint mentioned in
paragraph 2. Even predecessor in interest of the defendants died
on 21st October, 2006 as admitted in the plaint in para 21, who is
alleged to have acted against the interest of the plaintiff. The suit
was filed in the year 2011 i.e. after 5 years. The Society was
registered in the year 1996 as per the case of the plaintiff. On the
date of registration, the plaintiff was fully aware about the alleged
conduct of Sh. Matwal Chand despite of same the suit was filed
after 15 years. 39. Once the plaintiff knew that the suit property was transferred
to the predecessor in interest of defendants in the year 1962, suit
is barred by limitation. The cause of action not being a re-
occurring event and right to sue having occurred immediately at
that time, suit is liable to be dismissed having been filed beyond a
period of three years under Article 58/59 of Limitation Act . 40. In the case of J.D. Jain & Ors vs. Sharma Associates &
Ors. , 167 (2010) DLT 766 it was held as under: 41. In Abdul Rahim & Ors vs. Abdul Zabar & Ors. , (2009) 6
SCC 160 it was held as under: (See also Sneh Gupta v. Devi Sarup [(2009) 6
 SCC 194 : (2009) 2 Scale 765] .)" 42. In N.V.Srinivasa Murthy & Ors. vs. Mariyamma , (2005) 5
SCC 548 it was held as under: 9. The cause of action is said to have arisen when
 the Assistant Commissioner by order dated 28-4-
 1994 confirmed the orders of the lower authorities
 directing mutation of the names of the defendants on the
 suit lands and then again in the first week of July
 1995 when the defendants as alleged had made an
 attempt to interfere with the plaintiffs' possession and
 enjoyment of suit lands. The suit was filed on 26-8-1996.
 In the prayer clause, the reliefs claimed in the suit are (a)
 declaration that the plaintiffs are absolute owners of the
 suit lands, and (b) permanent injunction restraining the
 defendants from wrongfully entering the scheduled
 property and from interfering with the peaceful
 possession and enjoyment of scheduled lands. 10. As seen from the pleadings it is clear that
 foundation of the suit is that the registered sale deed
 dated 5-5-1953 was, in fact, only a loan transaction CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 19 of 35 executed to secure the amount borrowed by the
 plaintiff's predecessor. The amount borrowed was
 alleged to have been fully paid back on 25-3-1987 and in
 acknowledgement thereof a formal receipt was obtained.
 At the same time, there was an alleged oral agreement
 by the defendants to reconvey the property to the plaintiff
 by registered deed. 11. On the above averments, relief of declaring the
 registered sale deed dated 5-5-1953 to be a loan
 transaction and second relief of specific performance of
 oral agreement of reconveyance of the property by
 registered instrument should and ought to have been
 claimed in the suit. A suit merely for declaration that the
 plaintiffs are absolute owners of the suit lands could not
 have been claimed without seeking declaration that the
 registered sale deed dated 5-5-1953 was a loan
 transaction and not a real sale. The cause of action for
 seeking such a declaration and for obtaining
 reconveyance deed according to the plaintiff's own
 averments in para 9 of the plaint, arose on 25-3-1987
 when the plaintiffs claimed to have paid back the entire
 loan amount and obtained a promise from the
 defendants to reconvey the property. Reckoning the
 cause of action from 25-3-1987, the suit filed on 26-8-
 1996, was hopelessly barred by time. xxx xxx xxx 15. Civil Suit No. 557 of 1990 was pending when the
 present suit was filed. In the present suit, the relief
 indirectly claimed is of declaring the sale deed of 5-5-
 1953 to be not really a sale deed but a loan transaction.
 Relief of reconveyance of property under alleged oral
 agreement on return of loan has been deliberately
 omitted from the relief clause. In our view, the present
 plaint is liable to rejection, if not on the ground that it
 does not disclose "cause of action", on the ground that
 from the averments in the plaint, the suit is apparently CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 20 of 35 barred by law within the meaning of clause (d) of Order 7
 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure . 16. The High Court does not seem to be right in
 rejecting the plaint on the ground that it does not disclose
 any "cause of action". In our view, the trial court was right
 in coming to the conclusion that accepting all averments
 in the plaint, the suit seems to be barred by limitation. On
 critical examination of the plaint as discussed by us
 above, the suit seems to be clearly barred on the facts
 stated in the plaint itself. The suit as framed is prima
 facie barred by the law of limitation, provisions of the Specific Relief Act as also under Order 2 Rule 2 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure ." 43. In the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of N.V.Srinivasa Murthy (supra) the Court had observed that the
mutation proceedings in the year 1994 did not give rise to a fresh
cause of action as it was only in furtherance to the sale deed
dated 5th May, 1953 and it appeared to have been made as a
camouflage to get over the bar of limitation. Therefore, the Court
had dismissed the suit under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC . 44. The suit filed by the plaintiff for a declaration that the plaintiff
is an owner without seeking any declaration for cancellation of
sale deed is not maintainable at all. Despite claiming declaration,
no relief sought for cancellation of sale deed dated 16th May,
1962. In the absence of relief of cancellation of the sale deed, the
suit itself is not maintainable. The suit is not maintainable so long
as the sale deed stands, no relief of declaration can be granted to
the plaintiff. The plaint does not disclose cause of action and is CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 21 of 35 barred by law within the meaning of clause (d) of Order 7 Rule 11
CPC . I.A. No.16791/2011 ( Order 6 Rule 17 CPC ) 45. The plaintiff has filed the abovesaid application under Order
6 Rule 17 read with Section 151 CPC for amendment of the plaint
in paras 2, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 18 by adding paras 2A, 9A, 9B, 10A,
10B, 10C, 12A, 13A, 13B and 18A. It is stated inter alia in the
amendment application that the plaintiff Society is in use and
occupation and is in legal possession of the suit land since its
inception from 1958 till date and also maintained a society office
in the suit premises and has been performing their work from the
said office situated in the suit premises above mentioned. The
father of the defendants No.1 and 2 was the Secretary of the
Society and he got a General Power of Attorney executed by Sh.
Amir Chand and Shri Brij Lal in his favour on 16th April, 1960
registered on 4th May, 1960. 46. It is stated that the amendments sought is necessary for
determining the real question in controversy between the parties
and the same is prayed for the purpose of determining the real
question of disputes between the parties and same does make
out a new case or a new cause of action. It is also stated that the
amendment sought is a further explanation of pleadings which
already exists in the plaint. It is also necessary to avoid
multiplicity of the proceedings. 47. The following decisions are referred by the plaintiff in
support of application for amendment of plaint : b) In the case of Saif-ul-Islam Company, L.P vs. Roshan Lal
Arora & Another , 2003 AIHC 2966 Delhi High Court, (paras 12
to 15) it was held - c) In the case of Suraj Prakash Bhasin v. Raj Rani Bhasin ,
(1981) 3 SCC 652 (para 5 to 8) it was held - d) In the case of Reevajeetu Builders and Developers vs.
Narayanaswamy & Sons & Ors. , (2009) 10 SCC 84 (paras 58,
59, 63 and 64) it was held - e) In the case of Peepee Publisher & Distributors (P) Ltd vs.
Dr. Neena Khanna & Anr. , 2009 (110) DRJ 489 (paras 16 to 18)
it was held - f) In the case of Chet Ram Gupta v. Motian Devi Lamba ,
148 (2008) DLT 473 (DB) (paras 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18) it was
held - 48. It is settled law that the Court must not refuse bonafide,
honest and necessary amendment but at the same time, it is also
settled law that the Court should never permit malafide, dishonest
and unnecessary amendment which may cause prejudice to the
other side which cannot be compensated adequately in terms of
money. If plaint does not disclose cause of action as per
averment made in the plaint and the suit is apparently barred by
law, the Court normally should reject the amendment in case a CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 24 of 35 party trying to introduce different new case and seeking to
displace the case of the other side by withdrawing admissions. 49. The following decisions are necessary to be discussed in
this regard : b. In Heeralal vs. Kalyan Mal , AIR 1998 SC 618 it was held as
 under: If such amendments are allowed in the written
 statement the plaintiff will be irretrievably prejudiced by
 being denied the opportunity of extracting the
 admission from the defendants. In that case a suit was
 filed by the plaintiff for claiming a decree for Rs
 1,30,000 against the defendants. The defendants in
 their written statement admitted that by virtue of an
 agreement dated 7-4-1967 the plaintiff worked as their
 stockist-cum-distributor. After three years the
 defendants by application under Order VI Rule 17
 sought amendment of written statement by substituting
 paras 25 and 26 with a new paragraph in which they
 took the fresh plea that the plaintiff was mercantile
 agent-cum-purchaser, meaning thereby they sought to
 go behind their earlier admission that the plaintiff was
 stockist-cum-distributor. Such amendment was rejected
 by the trial court and the said rejection was affirmed by
 the High Court in revision. The said decision of the High
 Court was upheld by this Court by observing as
 aforesaid. This decision of a Bench of three learned
 Judges of this Court is a clear authority for the
 proposition that once the written statement contains an
 admission in favour of the plaintiff, by amendment such
 admission of the defendants cannot be allowed to be
 withdrawn if such withdrawal would amount to totally
 displacing the case of the plaintiff and which would CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 26 of 35 cause him irretrievable prejudice. Unfortunately the
 aforesaid decision of the three-member Bench of this
 Court was not brought to the notice of the Bench of two
 learned Judges that decided the case in Akshaya
 Restaurant [1995 Supp (2) SCC 303] . In the latter case
 it was observed by the Bench of two learned Judges
 that it was settled law that even the admission can be
 explained and even inconsistent pleas could be taken in
 the pleadings. The aforesaid observations in the
 decision in Akshaya Restaurant [1995 Supp (2) SCC
 303] proceed on an assumption that it was the settled
 law that even the admission can be explained and even
 inconsistent pleas could be taken in the pleadings.
 However the aforesaid decision of the three-member
 Bench of this Court in Modi Spg. [(1976) 4 SCC 320 : However, so far as Schedule B properties are
 concerned, from the very inception the defendants'
 case qua those properties was that the plaintiff had no
 interest therein. By proposed amendment they wanted
 to introduce an event with reference to those very
 properties by submitting that they had been in
 possession of trespassers. Such amendment could not
 be said to have in any way adversely or prejudicially
 affected the case of the plaintiff or displaced any
 admission on their part qua Schedule B properties CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 27 of 35 which might have resulted into any legal right in favour
 of the plaintiff. Therefore, so far as Schedule B
 properties were concerned, the amendment could not
 be found fault with. Hence exercising the powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India we would not be
 inclined to interfere with that part of the decision of the
 High Court allowing the amendment in the written
 statement, even though strictly speaking High Court
 could not have interfered with even this part of the order
 under Section 115 CPC." c. In Modi Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. and Anr. Vs.
 Ladha Ram & Co. , AIR 1977 SC 680 it was held as under: d. In Gautam Sarup vs. Leela Jetley & Ors. , (2008) 7 SCC 85 it
 was held as under: e. The Supreme Court in the case of Revajeetu Builders 's case
 (supra) held as under: f. The Supreme Court in the case of Radhika Devi vs. Bajrangi
 Singh., JT 1996 (2) SC 238 held as under: 50. This suit for declaration has been filed admitting that plaintiff
is not in possession. After filing the present application, an
application for amendment was filed and claim was made that the
plaintiff is in possession. In fact, the plaintiff was/is aware that if
the plaintiff is not in possession, an ad valorem court fees having
not been paid on the market value of the suit property and
consequential relief of possession, after claiming declaration,
having not been claimed, thus suit became barred under Section
34 of Specific Relief Act. 51. The prayer clause of I.A. 9562/2011 under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 CPC as well as prayer clause of plaint and document filed
by the plaintiff at pages 211 and 226, being judgment dated 15th
April, 2004 in W.P.(C) No.2677 of 1981, wherein admission of
predecessor-in-interest of defendants have been acknowledged
and admitted. The sale Deed dated 16th May, 1962 by virtue
whereof predecessor-in-interest the defendants became owner
was filed by plaintiff wherein it has been mentioned that
predecessor-in-interest of the defendants were the owner and in
possession of the suit property. 52. While claiming declaration, no relief sought for possession
and plaintiff admittedly not even averred or claimed possession of
the suit property. Suit filed merely for declaration without
possession, is barred under Section 34 of Specific Relief Act.
Further there is no averment of plaintiff being in possession, which
fact on the contrary having been asserted by the defendant that
they are in possession and no relief having been claimed for
possession. 53. The suit having not been valued for the relief of possession
for the purposes of court fees nor any ad valorem court fees
having been paid on the market value of the suit property, suit is
not maintainable in the absence of court fees and as such is liable
to be rejected. 54. In Jaswant Singh VS. Surinder Kaur Kohli , 159 (2009)
DLT 517 it was held as under: 85 lac. Thus, the plaintiff is liable to pay Court fees on
 this amount. The suit of the plaintiff is thus liable to be
 rejected on the ground of non-payment of court fees. However, the plaintiff is given a chance to pay the Court
 fee on the value of Rs. 85 lac, as put by the plaintiff for
 the purpose of jurisdiction, within three weeks from
 today. In case the court fee is not paid within three
 weeks, the suit is liable to be rejected on this ground." 55. The plaintiff pleads in the plaint that the suit property was
purchased in the name of predecessor in interest of defendants
on 16th May, 1962. No one has claimed any interest in the suit
property since that time except by way of filing the present suit by
the plaintiff Society which was registered in the year 1996. The
suit even is barred by the provisions of Benami Transaction
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 and is not maintainable in view of
provisions of Section 4 of the said Act. 56. It is settled law that if on the face of it the suit is barred by
limitation, the Court can exercise its discretion to reject the plaint
unless the Court finds that the issue of limitation is to be
determined after the trial in doubtful matter where such issue
needs a trial. 57. In the amendment application, the plaintiff is claiming that
the society is in part possession of the suit property as this
application has been filed after the defendants filed the written
statement and an application for rejection of the plaint on the
ground of plaintiff being not in possession, and having not claimed
possession is not entitled to maintain the suit in view of Section 34 of Specific Relief Act and in the absence of requisite court fees for
the relief of possession. Plaintiff has not averred that it is in
possession of the any part of the suit property. Consequently by CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 34 of 35 way of present application of the amendment, it is seeking to
withdraw admission, which cannot be permitted. Law in relation to
amendment of the plaint is strict as compared to written statement
nor the plaintiff can be permitted to withdraw the admission
already made which has vested the defendants with a right which
cannot be taken away. 58. In the abovesaid reasons, it is clear that the suit filed by the
plaintiff is time barred on the face of it and further the amendment
sought by the plaintiff is introducing entirely different case by
alleging that the plaintiff is in possession of the suit property
though in the original plaint, the said fact was not pleaded. The
plaintiff by alleging the same is trying to place new case by
completely displacing the case of the plaintiff from admissions
made by the plaintiff. The said application is thus not
maintainable, even otherwise once the suit on the face of it is time
barred as well as on other reasons as mentioned earlier paras of
the orders, the plaintiff is not entitled to amend the plaint. Such
application cannot be entertained. Therefore, the amendment
application being I.A. No.16791/2011 of the plaintiff under Order 6
Rule 17 CPC is dismissed. The application being I.A.
No.13043/2011 filed by the defendants under Order 7 Rule 11
CPC is allowed. The plaint is rejected under the provisions of
Order 7 Rule 11 (d) CPC . (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
FEBRUARY 04, 2015 CS(OS) No.1449/2011 Page 35 of 35