Per C.M.Garg,JM

 These are cross appeals filed by the revenue and assessee against

the separate orders of the CIT(A), Sambalpur dated 3.7.2017 for the

assessment years 2012-13 & 2013-14. P a g e 1 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 2. Since the issues in both the cross appeals are common and identical,

therefore they are clubbed together and are being disposed of by this single

order for the sake of convenience. 3. First, we take up for our adjudication the appeals filed by the

Revenue. 4. Grounds raised in A.Y,. 2012-2013 read as under: 5. Grounds raised in A.Y,. 2013-14 read as under: 6. Ground No.1 of appeal for the assessment year 2012-13 and ground

No.2 of appeal for the assessment year 2013-14 is common except variance

of quantum of addition made by the AO. Hence, we take into

consideration the ground No.1 of appeal for the assessment year 2012-13. 7. The brief facts of the case are that the Assessing Officer observed

that during the year under consideration, the assessee has claimed

commission expenses of Rs.3,92,80,961/-. The Assessing Officer required

the assessee to furnish details of persons to whom the commission was

paid. In reply, assessee furnished the list of persons to whom commission

was paid. Accordingly, notices were sent by the AO to these persons to

verify the genuineness of commission payment. The Assessing Officer made

correspondence with the commission agents and required them to furnish

name and address of buyers for whom they have executed commissioning

work alongwith nature of services rendered and the basis of claim of

 P a g e 3 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

commission. Some of the persons replied to have been received the

commission and some of the persons did not respond to the query of the

AO. The AO also issued letters to the buyer from who transactions were

made and commission was paid to commission agents. The buyers have

also denied to have involved any agents in the transactions. From the

above the AO was of the opinion that the assessee has not made any

commission expenses to arrange buyers for sale of iron ores. Therefore,

the AO disallowed the same and added to the total income of the assessee. 8. On appeal before the CIT(A), the assessee submitted as under: 9. The ld CIT(A) deleted the disallowance made by the AO, inter alia,

observing as under: 10. The ld CIT(A) also referred to the decision of CIT(A)-2 for the

assessment year 2010-2011 in assessee's own case order dated 28.1.2015,

wherein, similar disallowance was made by the AO deleted by the CIT(A). 11. Ld CIT DR supported the order of the Assessing Officer. He

submitted that it is not clear from the reply of the assessee as well as the

 P a g e 6 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

order of the ld CIT(A) that what kind of services have rendered by the

commission agents. He submitted that when the buyers have specifically

denied to have engaged by the assessee any middle persons for buying the

iron ore, then how can it possible that commissions have been paid to

them. Ld CIT DR relied upon the following judicial pronouncements: 12. Replying to above, ld A.R. supported the order of the ld CIT(A) and

also relied on the decision of this Bench in the case of the assessee for

assessment year 2010-11 order dated 31.8.2017 and also the decision in

the case of Tarini Minerals Pvt Ltd. in ITA No.341/CTK/2017 order dated

4.9.2019, on identical facts a wherein, the addition made by the AO and

deleted by the CIT(A) has been upheld by the Tribunal. Ld A.R. submitted

that the judgments relied upon by ld CIT DR are distinguishable on facts,

hence, have no application in the case of the assessee. Therefore, he urged

that the finding of ld first appellate authority deleitng the addition recorded

by the ld CIT(A) be upheld for both the assessment years. 13. We have heard rival submissions and perused the record placed

before the Tribunal, inter alia, decisions of the Tribunal relied upon by ld

 P a g e 7 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

counsel for the assessee and order of this Bench dated 31.8.2017 in ITA

No.142/CTk/2015 for A.Y. 2010-11 in assessee's own case/appeal filed by

the revenue. 14. On vigilant perusal of decision of Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in

the case of Suresh Kumar G. Hundia (supra), we find that in this case the

Tribunal recorded finding that the assessee who was in the business of

import & export of bullion, claimed deduction of commission paid the HBL

on the ground that services of director of HBL were used for purchasing

bullion. However, on enquiries made by the Tribunal, assessee stated that

no such commission was paid in earlier or subsequent year to HBL and the

assessee could have procured/imported bullion without assistance of any

agent. The assessee could not produce director of HBL and there was no

supportive evidence. Keeping in view above facts and circumstances,

when, we evaluated facts and circumstances, of the present case, then we

find that the assessee is continuously clearing payment of commission not

only during present assessment year but also during earlier and subsequent

assessment years. In the present case, commission was paid by the

assessee, who is a seller, directly to the agents for facilitating different

services in the process of transfer of materials to various destinations of

buyers/purchasers. The ld CIT DR could not controvert the fact that in the

line of business of present assessee, agent is not visiting to buyers and

some times known person of the company as the buyer is not paying any

 P a g e 8 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

commission to such agents. In the case in hand, we are in agreement

with the contention of ld A.R. that the services of such agents were not

utilised for purchasing of any material but the same was used for facilitating

the supply chain to reach the material to the buyer's place. Hence, facts

and circumstances of that case are quite dissimilar and distinct, thus no

application in the present case. Thus, we follow the same. 15. Similar claim was deleted by the ld CIT(A) for A.Y. 2010-2011 in

assessee's own case/appeal in ITA No.142/CTK/2017 order dated

31.8.2017 with following observations. 5. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee
deleted the addition. 6. Ld D.R. supported the order of the Assessing Officer whereas ld
A.R. fully justified the order of the CIT(A). 7. We have heard rival submissions, perused the orders of lower
authorities and materials available on record. We find that the CIT(A)
deleted the disallowance of Rs.7,09,10,967/- out of total commission
payment of Rs.14,13,86,450/- by observing as under" P a g e 12 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

contractual and non-contractual fiduciary relationships that
involve a person (the agent), who is authorized to act on behalf
of another (the principal) to create legal relations with a third
party. Succinctly, it may be referred to as a more-or-less equal
relationship between a principal and an agent whereby the
principal, expressly or implicitly, authorizes the agent to work
under his or her or its control and on his or her or its behalf. The
agent is, thus, required to negotiate on behalf of the principal or
bring him or her and third parties into a contractual relationship.
The reciprocal rights and liabilities between a principal and an
agent reflect commercial and legal realities. A business owner
often relies on an employee or another person to conduct a
business. The principal is bound by the contract entered into by
the agent, so long as the agent performs within the scope of the
agency. Importantly, a third party may rely in good faith on the
representation by a person who identifies himself as an agent for
another. It is not always cost effective to check whether someone
who is represented having the authority to act for another
actually has such authority. If it is subsequently found that the
alleged agent was acting without necessary authority, the gent
will generally he held liable. e) In the instant case, the agents were relatively small and
unknown players. Also, as per the terms of the
agreements/understanding with the Appellant, they did not
appear to have any authority to attract or enlist buyers for the
Appellant. Their range of duties was limited to facilitating
smooth supply of goods to the buyers.' This would mean
that they were in most cases interacting with buyers who were in
direct transactional and interactive relationship with the
Appellant. The buyers therefore had no cause to regard the
agents as purchase intermediaries (they being supply facilitators
temporarily visible at a given point in time in respect of the
transactions operational at that time) and the agents had no
reasons to prepare iron-clad lists and details of the buyers.
Therefore, there was little reason for the buyers to make
enquiries about the agents and certify the genuineness or
veracity of the latter in the matter of supplies of materials. I All
the buyers were concerned with was the timely delivery of
quality-tested goods/products as specified by them. All the
Appellant expected from the agents was total adherence to the
terms of the agreement/arrangement between them. f) Therefore, the express non-remembrance of the agents in the
 creative-proactive awarenesses of the buyers alone will not
 negate the fact of the impugned transactions and the truth
 and character of the Commission payments. The AO has not
 carried out any investigations or inquires, on

 P a g e 13 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

 unearthed/discovered any evidences that suggest that the
 transactions and payments were not what they seemed to be.
 The decision to disallow has been made on presumption,
 surmise, conjecture, supposition, and a summary and
 unilateral conclusion based on rudimentary facts (of the
 buyers being presumably non-existent or apparently unaware
 of the agents and the agents being unable to list the buyers)
 taken in prejudiced isolation and based on a spurious implied
 "transcendental" principle that seeks to cover/fill the schism
 between flimsy foundations and meretricious arguments on
 one side and a tendentious decision on the other. This is not a
 scientific, professional and responsible exercise carried out by
 the AO. Much more homework was required to be done by the
 AO in discharge of his responsibilities, which he plainly failed
 to carry out. g) How to go about doing one's business sis the prerogative of
 the business man, as are the related matters like incurring
 expenses, making investments, obtaining loans and providing
 advances, etc. The decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of S.A. Builders Limited vs CIT , 288 ITR 1 (SC) is
 relevant. The Hon'ble Court held in the above ratio reiterated
 the settled position in the past that no businessman can be
 compelled to maximize his profit. While considering the claim
 of deduction of any expenditure, income tax authorities must
 put themselves in the shoes of the assessee and see how a
 prudent businessman would act. Once it was established that
 there was nexus between the expenditure and purpose of the
 business, revenue cannot justifiably claim to put itself in the
 arm chair of the businessman or in the position of the board
 of directors and assume the role to decide how much is
 reasonable expenditure having regard to the circumstances of
 the case. The authorities must look at the matter not from
 their own point view but that of a prudent businessman. h) Consequently, whether to engage the services of a
 Commission agent or not in respect of her sales is the
 business prerogative of the Appellant, and even if such agents
 do are not able to bring in a single customer, the expenses
 made of the nature of Commission payments to the agents
 would not be ineligible. i) In harmony with the principles of economic neutrality, what is
 to be verified is whether the agents are creating economic
 value for the Appellant through the functions carried out, risks
 absorbed and assets being time and effort invested in by it,
 and is therefore entitled to be compensated for the same in
 the form of receipts of Commissions. Compensation can be

 P a g e 14 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

denied or disallowed only if it is proved that the apparent
arrangement is not germane or related to the business and/or
is non-genuine and no economic value is being generated by
the agent for the principal. The Appellant is free to enter into
agreements with and appoint as many agents, as it seeks to,
in line with its business needs and commercial practices. If the
agreements and appointments are wholly and exclusively for
the purpose of business, and the payments made in the said
regard are fully billed/vouched, accounted for and audited,
then there is little scope for Revenue to take a prejudicial
view. j) The AO has not been able to show that the payments have
not been made to the purported agents and that these
payments are not relatable to the carrying out the business
and for other business purposes. The AO has merely leaped to
conclusions (in the cases of Categories II, III and IV) that the
seeming absence of buyers (as ostensibly evidenced by letters
addressed to them returning unserved), or the negations or
disavowals by such buyers of any knowledge or nexus with
the agents or the inability of the Commission agents to list the
actual buyers would automatically disentitle the agents of their
status and rights to receive Commission payments. In the
scheme set in place by the Appellant, the buyers directly
transacted with her; the agents did not enroll them and
therefore in most cases would not know them. The agents
would be able to only provide some names of buyers in
respect of whom/which the agent would have
facilitated the supply after the sales were made.
Likewise, sworn depositions from the buyers that they did not
know the agents would not make for adverse finding because
in the minds of these buyers, they had transacted directly with
the Appellant, and the person referred to as an agent would
have appeared in their eyes like an employee of the Appellant
or other individual engaged in facilitating the movement of the
goods, and not in a formal position of engagement as an
'agent'. k) What was needed for the AO was to prove any of the
following: a) the impugned agents did not exist or were not
genuine agents; b) the agents had not carried out any
facilitation work for the Appellant; and c) the agents had not
actually received the stated Commission moneys. He has
instead proceeded on presumptions and concluded on
unproven inanities that the absence of information about the
buyers meant that the Commission agents did not exist or
were not genuine participants in the Appellants business. In
respect of Category I, the buyers confirming at they had

 P a g e 15 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

 carried out direct transactions with the Appellant is well within
 the general and accepted scheme of things. It is not part of
 the role of the agent to always act as a physical intermediary
 between the buyers and the appellant being the sellers.
 Purchases were directly made from the appellant with the
 agent remaining in the background. The buyer is interested
 only in effecting the purchases; he is not duty bound to keep
 tax on the appellant -seller's agents and prepare lists when
 called for. Buyers also interact with several agents of the
 same nature employed by their respective competing
 principals participating in the suppliers of material supplies.
 Such lack of awareness alone 'does not take away the
 character of the payments made being that of commissions or
 the truth and genuineness of the principal-agent transactions.
 The part of the order that deals with the enhancements of
 Commission payments appears to have framed on suspicion
 and presumption, and as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in the case of State of Kerala vs. M.M. Mathew 42 STC
 (1978), however strong such suspicion or presumption it could
 not replace legal proof. l) In the matter of the disallowance of the Commission
 amounts paid to the HUFs totaling Rs. 47,17,304/-
 (Category V), the simple issue was whether the payments
 were made to the HUFs concerned. Whether the payments
 were assessable as incomes in the hands of the kartas or
 in the hands of the HUFs themselves is a separate matter.
 The AO's ground that an HUF could not seemingly
 'physically' receive the commission amounts is not one that
 automatically disallows the expense in the hands of the
 payer. Separately, the conclusion of the AO that HUFs are
 not "physical entities" display a lack of
 understanding/appreciation of the plain meanings of the
 word "physical" which inclusively connotes a corporeal,
 material, phenomenal and temporal existence or state of
 being. When there is no technical meaning defined of a
 word employed in the statute, the general meaning of the
 same in a plain and inclusive sense needs to be employed. m) The word "physical" does not lend itself to easy definition
 or connotation. It means different things to different people.
 When undoubtedly 'physical' man inhabits a 'physical' world, it
 stands to deductive reason that groups of such men such as
 Associations of Persons (AoPs) and Bodies of Individuals
 (Bols) too are 'physical' in essence. Employing the canonic
 principle of noscitur a sociis (a word is known by the company
 it keeps), it can be readily seen that an HUF as defined u/s
 2(15) of the Income-tax Act is accompanied by other persons

 P a g e 16 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

that include "individual". It obviously cannot be the AO's case
that an 'individual' is not a 'physical entity', and it follows
therefore that an HUF, and all the other persons mentioned
therein are "physical entities" under the statute. n) The word "physical" itself is derived from the Latin word
"physis" which meant matter in its indivisibly elemental form.
However, the physical world is both tangible and intangible.
The human mind inhabits the physical world and there are
philosophies that hold that mind is made up of an intangible
physical substance. The corpus of human knowledge as it
exists today is indeed regarded as a "physically substantive" entities, as they are defined and exist only in law.

O) HUFS exist as entities under law which is a creation of
corporeal-physical man to fulfill and facilitate his life's needs
and objectives. HUFs exist in physical form as manifested
through. their Kartas and in such form, and as, defined
"persons" under the Income-tax Act u/s 2(15) are / perfectly
capable of carrying out business and/or commercial
transactions. There are no physical/legal infirmities in this
regard. In the case of Ram Laxman Sugar Mills-v-CIT 66
ITR 613 SC, it has been held that A Hindu undivided family is
undoubtedly a "person" within the meaning of the Indian
Income-tax Act . In various cases that indicate that the
Honourable Courts have upheld that HUFs can earn
commission income, the following may be considered. Where
the karta is a partner representing the HUF in a firm and
salary or commission is paid to such partner, the issue arises
whether such salary or commission should be assessed in the
hands of HUF or as personal income of the karta. The test laid
down by the Honourable Supreme Court in Kumar Singh
Hukam Singhji 78 ITR 33 (1970) (SC) is whether such
payment has been made because of investment in the firm or

 P a g e 17 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

as a compensation for the services rendered. In case of the
former, it will be assessed as income of the HUF while in case
of the latter, it will be assessed as the personal income of the
karta. This proposition of law has been reiterated in Prem
Nath-vs-CIT 78 ITR 319 (1970)(SC) and has been
followed in CIT-vs-Lachliman Dass Bhatia 162 Taxmann
118 (Del). These decisions mean that HUFs can earn
commission incomes that are assessable in its hands (as
against those of the karta) under certain conditions. In any
event, in this case, the payment has been made and whether
the same is to be assessed in the hands of the HUFs or their
respective kartas is a decision to be taken by the respective
AOs possessed of the jurisdiction of those cases. p) The AO's pejorative statements in the assessment order
that '7/ may also be recalled that an expenditure is an
expenditure when the payer and the payee are two different
hands and two different beings. Here it is the services which
are being paid for and these services could only be provided
by flesh and blood. Such income cannot be attributed to an
entity like HUF as the HUF cannot perform functions of an
individual being because of not existing in physical form " is to
be seen against the fact that the Appellant and the receivers
(the HUFs) are two different hands and two different beings.
Also and in particular, no fair and reasonable opportunity has
been provided to the Appellant to argue the point of the
'physicality' or otherwise of an HUF. q) In consequence of all the above, it is held that the AO's
action in disallowing the impugned expenses totaling Rs.
7,09,10,967 have been made on extremely thin and specious
grounds that the buyers were not found or did not respond or
disclaimed any knowledge of the agents or that the agents
were not able to remember the buyers or were not able to
furnish detailed particulars about them or for the reason that
the Commission agents were HUFs. All of them are reasons
that do not show any clear understanding about the reasons
for and the manner in which the agents have been employed
and engaged by the Appellant. The Appellant is seen to have
made the necessary deductions of I DS, maintained the
necessary bills, receipts certificates and other documentation,
made the necessary entries in books of accounts that have
been duly audited and also furnished the Income-tax
particulars of the agents before the AO. Copies of some of the
communications made by the Appellant to the AO in this
regard have been provided on record by the Appellant. r) The inverse argument of the AO that the TDS deductions

 P a g e 18 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

 were part of a grand income- concealment-tax-evasion-or-
 escapement scam operated by the Appellant in a manner that
 the latter was enabled to legally decamp with 90% of
 unaccounted money diversions at a cost of 10% of the same
 towards TDS, is not borne out by factual evidences or the
 diligent results of rigorous inquiry. The statement of the AO
 that the Commission agents were proved to have rendered no
 services to the Appellant too is seen to be one that calls for a
 conclusion without due foundation. Recording sworn
 statements from the buyers and not obtaining these from the
 Commission agents themselves is an asymmetric exercise, and
 the latter would have revealed the k-true picture to the AO. s) The enhancement made of Rs. 7,09,10,967/- on the
 said count is consequently deleted and the Appeal
 allowed." 8. Ld D.R. could not point out any specific error in the findings of the
 CIT(A) that at times commission agent when approaches the purchasers,
 he does not identify himself as an agent of the seller and merely identifying
 himself as representative of the seller, in such circumstances, the buyer
 cannot be aware that the person who has approached is employee of the
 seller or agent of the seller. Further, the CIT(A) observed that the
 commission may be paid to an agent for facilitating the trade even when
 the orders are directly given to the sellers by the purchasers. Further, non-
 service of letters to the buyers or non-compliance of the letters by the
 buyers does not show that the payment of commission was not genuine
 when the relative sale was considered genuine. Further, non-furnishing of
 the name of the buyers by agent in compliance to the notice does not
 necessarily mean that the agent is not aware of the buyers. Further, to
 hold that in no situation commission can be earned by a person like HUF is
 also not tenable. We find that no material could be brought before us to
 show that the person to whom commission was paid were
 accommodation/entry provider and the money which was paid through
 banking channel to them came back to the assessee. In the circumstances,
 in the absence of any specific defect being pointed out in the order of the
 CIT(A), we find no good reason to interfere with the order of the CIT(A),
 which is hereby confirmed and the ground of appeal of the revenue is
 dismissed." Accordingly, facts and circumstances in the case of Suresh Kumar G.

Hundia (supra) are quite dissimilar and distinct in the facts and

circumstances of the present case. Thus, this preposition has no application

to the present case in favour of the revenue. P a g e 19 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 16. It is not disputed by ld CIT DR that in respect of commission

payment, TDS was deducted and deposited into the government account

and the copies of income tax returns in support of the tax being deposited

by the commission agents. It is also not in dispute that the similar

commission payment has been made in earlier years and also in the present

assessment year. 17. As regards to the decisions relied upon by ld CIT DR, we find that the

said decisions are distinguishable on facts. 18. In the case of Schneider Electric India Ltd (supra), the appellant

claimed expenses on account of sales commission, however, in the case at

hand, no payment is made on account of sale's commission for procuring

orders. The agents providing services to the appellant for facilitating

transfer of materials. Hence , the said decision has no application in the case

of the assessee. 19. In the case of Printer House (P) Ltd (supra), no evidence was

furnished in support of the services rendered by the commission agents.

However, in the case at hand, the service provided by an agent was

established in different forums. The same issue was placed before this

Bench by the revenue in the case of Tarini Minerals (P) Ltd. , (supra) for A.Y.

2010-11 and the Tribunal confirmed and upheld the findings recorded by

 P a g e 20 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

the ld CIT(A) deleting the addition on account of "payment of commission".

On being asked by the Bench, the ld CITDR could not point out any

dissimilar new facts or circumstances from this case and present A.Y. 2012-

13 and 2013-14 under consideration. Hence, we are compelled to accept

and follow the findings recorded by this Bench in the order dated 4.9.2019. 20. We also find that the ITAT Cuttack in the case of Tarini Mineral (P)

Ltd. , (supra) on similar facts have upheld the decision of the ld CIT(A)

following the judgement of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of S.A.

Builders ltd vs CIT 88 ITR 1 (SC). 21. Ld CIT D.R. also could not point out any specific error, ambiguity or

perversity in the findings of the CIT(A) that at times commission agent

when approaches the purchasers, he does not identify himself as an agent

of the seller and merely identifying himself as representative of the seller, in

such circumstances, the buyer cannot be aware that the person who has

approached is employee of the seller or agent of the seller. Further, the

CIT(A) observed that the commission may be paid to an agent for

facilitating the trade even when the orders are directly given to the

seller(assessee) by the purchasers. Further, non-service of letters to the

buyers or non-compliance of the letters by the buyers does not show that

the payment of commission was not genuine when the relative sale was

considered genuine and accepted by the department. Further, non- P a g e 21 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

furnishing of the name of the buyers by agent in compliance to the notice

does not necessarily mean that the agent is not aware of the buyers.

Further, to hold that in no situation commission can be earned by a person

like HUF is also not tenable. We find that no material could be brought

before us to show that the person to whom commission was paid were

accommodation/entry provider and the money which was paid through

banking channel to them came back to the assessee in cash or through any

other mode. In the circumstances, in the absence of any specific defect

being pointed out in the order of the CIT(A), we find no good reason to

interfere with the findings recorded by the ld first appellate authority, which

is hereby confirmed and the identical ground of appeal of the revenue for

A.Y. 2012-13 & 2013-14 are dismissed. 22. Ground No.2 of appeal for the assessment year 2012-13 is against

the deletion of addition of Rs.34,25,485/- made under the head "punitive

charges". 23. Facts in brief apropos this issue are that the Assessing Officer noticed

that the assessee has debited Rs.34,25,485/- under the head "punitive

charges". The AO required the assessee to furnish the details of such

expenses with documentary evidence and same should not be disallowed

being an expenditure not allowable u/s.37 of the Act. In reply, the

assessee submitted that the amount was paid to Gangavaram Port Ltd.,

Visakhapatnam towards overloading of rakes. It was also submitted that

 P a g e 22 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

though the nomenclature is punitive charges, it is not paid for infraction of

any law and overloading is a normal feature of shipment. The above

explanation of the assessee was not found acceptable to the AO and he,

accordingly disallowed Rs.34,25,485/- and added the same to the total

income of the assessee. 24. On appeal, the ld CIT(A) deleted the addition by observing as under: 25. Ld CIT DR supported the order of the Assessing Officer. He

submitted that the act of the assessee in overloading the wagon was an act

which was against public policy for which punitive charges are levied. He

drew our attention to section 73 of the Railway Act, 1989 which reads as

follows :- 26. He submitted that the statutory provision makes it clear that the

punitive charges are in addition to freight and other charges and that the

punitive charges are clearly referred to as penalty. Ld CIT DR relied upon

the decision of ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Arun Kumar Gupta, HUF vs

ACIT (2012) 27 taxmann./com 230 (Del) and also the decision of Hon'ble

Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT vs Mamta Enterprises (2004) 135

Taxman 393 (kar), wherein, it was held that compounding charges paid for

unauthorized construction was claimed as deduction while computing

income from business. It was also held that the compounding fee was paid

for the purpose of compounding a criminal offence and was therefore hit by

the provision of Explanation to section 37(1) of the Act. 27. Replying to above, ld AR supported the order of the ld CIT(A). He

also relied on the decision of ITAT Kolkata in the case of DCIT vs M/s.

Runga Mines Ltd., in ITA No.1531/Kol/2017 for A.Y. 2014-15, wherein, it

was held that overloading charges may, in its terminology, be termed as

punitive charges but such payments appear to be routine payments in

nature of additional freight charges for overloading and the punitive charges

 P a g e 24 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

cannot be characterized as expenditure incurred for any purpose which is

an offence or which is prohibited by law and, therefore, explanation 37(1) is

not attracted. He, accordingly, urged to uphold the order of the ld CIT(A)

on this issue. 28. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the record of the

case. In the instant case, the punitive charges paid to Gangavaram Port

Ltd., is for overloading of rakes. No where, it is claimed that the charges

paid as punitive charges is infraction of any law. Hence, it cannot be held

that the punitive charges is a penalty for breach of law. 29. In the case of Arun Kumar Gupta, HUF (supra), relied upon by ld CIT

DR, the facts are that the payment made by the assessee against violation

of Muncipality laws for misuse of property which is infraction of law.

However, in the present case, the punitive charges is against overloading

charges in the rake. 30. In the case of Mamata Enterprises (supra) relied upon by ld CIT DR,

the facts are that the appellant made construction in contravention of the

provision of Karnataka Muncipal Corporation Act and hence, the offence was

compounded on payment of compounding fine. In the case at hand, there

is no fine imposed for excess loading in the ship. The excess payment is

known as punitive charges. In the present case there is no offence

 P a g e 25 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

whatsoever and there is no compounding fee paid and claimed as

deduction. 31. We find in the case of Runga Mines Ltd (supra), Kolkata ITAT under

similar facts held that overloading charges may, in its terminology, be

termed as punitive charges but such payments appear to be routine

payments in nature of additional freight charges for overloading and the

punitive charges cannot be characterized as expenditure incurred for any

purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law and, therefore,

explanation 37(1) is not attracted. 32. From the aforesaid facts, we observe that punitive charges for

overloading were actually in the nature of additional freight for transporting

goods beyond the permissible carrying capacity which cannot be

categorized as an expenditure incurred for any purpose which is an office or

infringement of law. We also find that after considering the detailed

submissions, the CIT(A) took the view that payment in question was

compensatory in nature and was made towards extra or overloading

bringing extra benefit for assessee in the form of transportation of extra

goods or material, which cannot be tagged as penal and therefore the

provision to Explanation to Section 37(1) of the Act will not be applicable.

We therefore uphold the order of CIT(A) and dismiss ground no.2 raised by

the revenue for the assessment year 2012-13. P a g e 26 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 33. Ground No.3 of appeal for the assessment year 2012-13 and Ground

No.3 of appeal for assessment year 2013-14 are identical and similar in

respect of deletion of addition of interest. Hence, we discuss the facts for

the assessment year 2012-13. 34. Facts in brief are that the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee

has given interest free loans and advances to related parties. The AO

required the assessee to furnish the details of such loans and advances

given to the following parties and paid interest on the bank loan and

explain, as to why interest @ 12% should not be disallowed: 35. In reply, the assessee submitted that the assessee's capital was

Rs.441.11 crores as on 31.3.2012, whereas loans and advances were to the

tune of Rs. 43.16 crores, therefore, the assessee had enough capital to give

interest free loans and advances to various parties. The above explanation

of the assessee was not found acceptable to the AO, and, accordingly,

notional interest amount of Rs.37,17,885/- was added to the total income of

the assessee. P a g e 27 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 36. On appeal, the ld CIT(A) deleted the addition made by the AO, by

observing as under: 37. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the record of the

case. Ld CIT DR supported the order of the Assessing Officer. He

submitted that there is no documentary evidence furnished by the assessee

that the loans and advances are given to parties out of her capital. He

submitted that when the assessee has taken loan from the bank and paid

interest thereon, then how can it possible to give interest free loans and

advances out of own capital or interest free funds. Hence, it was urged to

reverse the order of the ld CIT(A) to restore that of the AO. 38. Replying to above, ld AR supported the order of the ld CIT(A). P a g e 28 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 39. On consideration of the rival submission, from financial statement for

F.Y., 2011-12 pertaining to A.Y. 2012-13 we clearly observe that the

assessee had a capital of Rs.441.11 crores as on 31.3.2012 and the

assessee had given interest free loans and advances to the tune of Rs.43.16

crores, which is very much below or lesseer from said amount of the capital

of the assessee. When, the assessee has interest bearing funds as also

other (i.e. interest free huge capital or own funds) then until & unless it

can be established by way of cogent material or facts that the assessee has

advanced interest free loans out of interest bearing funds, the interest paid

on the borrowed funds cannot be disallowed. The mere fact that the

assessee is paying interest on its borrowings and the assessee has also

given interest free loans or advances , by itself, does not entitle the AO for

making disallowance of interest so paid on the flimsy ground that the

borrowed funds have been used for business purposes without any cogent

adverse material or evidence proving the utilisation of interest bearing funds

for the purpose of advancing interest free loans/advances. 40. We find that the ld CIT(A) referred to the decision of Hon'ble

Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs HDFC Bank (2014) 366 ITR 505

(Bom), wherein, it has been held that where the assessee's capital, net

profit, reserves, surplus and current account deposits are higher than the

investment in tax free security, it would have to be presumed that the

 P a g e 29 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

investment made by the assessee would be out of interest free funds

available with the assessee. 41. Ld CIT DR could not controvert that the claim of the assessee that

she has total capital of Rs.441.11 crores as on 31.3.2012. Therefore,

respectfully following the judgement of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the

case of HDFC Bank (supra), we uphold and confirm the findings of the ld

CIT(A) dismissing the ground of revenue. Accordingly, Ground No.3 for

assessment year 2012-13 and Ground No.3 of appeal for assessment year

2013-14 are dismissed. 42. Ground No.4 of appeal for assessment year 2012-13 is against the

deletion of Rs.3,99,28,438/- made under the head "disallowance of

peripheral development charges". 43. Apropos this Ground, ld CIT DR, supporting the action of the

Assessing Officer, drew our attention towards para 9 at pages 5-6 of the

assessment order, submitted that the AO by following the decision of

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd vs

CIT , 1966 SCR (3) 321, has rightly disallowed the claim of the assessee

towards peripheral development charges by observing that he is unable to

verify whether peripheral development charges is the expenditure incidental

to the business and must have been necessitated or justified by commercial

expediency or not in the case of the assessee as the assessee has failed to

 P a g e 30 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

justify the peripheral development charges with supporting

documents/evidences. Ld CIT DR submitted that the ld CIT(A) has granted

relief to the assessee without any reasonable cause and justified findings

ignoring the facts and circumstances of the case, under which the assessee

has claimed expenses towards peripheral development charges. Therefore,

the impugned order of the ld CIT(A) on this point, may kindly be set aside

by restoring that of the order of the AO. 44. Replying to above, ld AR drew our attention towards explanation of

the assessee and submitted that during assessment proceedings before the

AO, as has been recorded by the AO in para -9 of the assessment order, it

was submitted that the assessee is a mines owner and the mines are

located in the forests and operation in the mines area affects the periphery

in which several villages are located. Ld A.R. further explained that to

compensate the damage happening to the local amenities due to operation

of the mines, the assessee is required to undertake periphery development

expenses as per the provisions of law. Therefore, the amount has been

spent or incurred for upgradation of the roads in the periphery through

Keonjhar Infrastructure Development Co. Ltd. Ld A.R. submitted that all

relevant copies and documents were submitted before the AO reflecting

that at the time of making payment, tax has been deducted at source as

per the provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961 and Income tax Rules, 1962.

Ld A.R. also explained that mines are located in the deep forest and by the

 P a g e 31 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

passage of time the roads constructed by the Government are fully

damaged during rainy and other natural reasons and, therefore, for smooth

facilitation of vehicles used by the assessee for transportation of materials

and also to facilitate the local people and villagers, forest department

officials and government officials, the assessee has repaired/upgraded the

old roads. Therefore, this expenditure is inextricably linked with the

business of the assessee which is allowable. 45. On careful consideration of the rival submissions alongwith para 9 of

the assessment order and para 7.2 of the CIT(A) order, we are of the

considered view that the nature of business carried on by the assessee

must be evaluated and accepted as per the commercial expediency and

trading principles. The expenditure claimed by the assessee must be

incidental to the business and must be necessitated or justified by the

commercial expediency and must be directly and intimately connected with

the business and must be incurred by the prudent business man/taxpayer.

For the purpose of smooth running of business, the characteristic of

permissible deduction, there must be a direct and interlinked connection

with the business of the assessee, meaning thereby, the amount

inextricable claimed by the assessee and mode of business of the assessee,

in order to justify the deduction, the expenditure must be incidental to the

business and must be necessitated or justified by the commercial

expediency. Precisely, it can be said that there must be inter-connection

 P a g e 32 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

between the expenditure claimed by the assessee and business operation

by the assessee. 46. In the present case, undisputedly, the assessee is a mines owner and

the mines are located in the deep forest and obviously the mining activities

in the mines area affects the periphery of the mines, where several villagers

are residing in the villages located in the periphery. When a miner extracts

material from the mines, then, he is duty bound to ensure that there should

be minimal disturbance and destruction in the periphery and there should

be no nuisance to the villagers residing around the area of operation by the

mining activities. At the same time, it is also a requirement of the miner

that there must be good road in the periphery for smooth movement of

materials, which is also used by the forest department officials and other

government officials and the villagers residing in the periphery. 47. On perusal of assessment order, we observe that the Assessing

officer has made addition by observing that he is unable to verify as to

whether periphery development charge is the expenditure incidental to the

business and must have been necessitated or justified by commercial

expediency or not in the case of the assessee. He also noted that the

assessee has failed to justify the peripheral development charge with

supporting documents/evidences. From these observations, we safely

observe that the AO has not disputed the quantum of expenses or any

other compliance required as per the provisions of Income tax Act at the

 P a g e 33 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

time of making payment and he simply disallowed the claim of the assessee

by observing that he is unable to verify the claim of the assessee in absence

of supportive evidences/documents. 48. Further from para 7.2 of the CIT(A), we observe that the ld CIT(A)

has granted relief to the assessee by observing as follows: 49. In view of above, from the explanation submitted by the assessee

before the AO dated 5.2.2015, it is clear that the assessee informed the

name of contractor, who was paid the impugned amount for upgradation of

roads in the periphery area i.e. M/s. Keonjhar Infrastructure Dev. Company

Ltd. On receipt of above explanation, the AO without pointing out any

defect in the quantum of expenses spent by the assessee and mode of

 P a g e 34 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

payment adopted by the assessee for making payment and without

verifying from the recipient contractor regarding receipt of payment and

rendering of services towards upgradation of roads proceeded to make

disallowance and addition. The AO was duty bound to issue show cause

notice to the assessee and if he was not satisfied with the reply, he could

have issued notice to the recipient contractor who was paid the impugned

the amount regarding the work of upgradation or construction of roads on

the direction of the assessee in the periphery area of the mines owned by

the assessee but no such exercise had been undertaken. Therefore, the

allegation made by the AO that the assessee has failed to justify the

expenses without evidences/documents has no legs to stand. 50. On careful perusal of the findings of the ld CIT(A ) (supra), we do not

find any infirmity in his findings to interfere with the same and, accordingly,

we uphold and dismiss Ground No.4 of revenue for assessment year 2012- 13. 51. Ground No.1 of appeal for assessment year 2013-14 in ITA

No.390/CTK/2017 reads as under: P a g e 35 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 52. Apropos this ground, ld CIT DR supporting the assessment order,

submitted that the assessee, during the relevant financial period, has made

claim of donation given to School of Human Genetics & Population Health

(SHG&PH). Ld CIT DR submitted that on receipt of enquiry report of

Investigation Wing of Kolkata, a show cause notice was issued to the

assessee on 22.1.2016. In response to the same, the assessee vide written

submission dated 2.2.2016 stated that the assessee has made donation

through proper banking channel after being satisfied with their genuinity.

The assessee has made donation out of her hard earned tax paid money

with genuine benevolence to help the organisation doing yeomen service.

It was not possible for the assessee to enquiry about the mal activities done

by the office bearers and officers of the said organisation. Therefore, the

assessee is not a position to comment on the findings in survey. Ld CIT DR

vehemently pointed out that from the enquiry report and statement of the

Secretary and the Treasurer of the SHG&PH, it was clearly established that

this institution is not involved in any scientific research activities and they

used to receive bogus donation through cheque, RTGS & simultaneously

returns money after deducting 7% to 8% of donation amount as

commission. Ld CIT DR submitted that during statement, the assessee

herself accepted that she has not verified the scientific activity of SHG&PH

and she has given donation without knowing the institution. Ld CIT DR

submitted that the assessee has not given any explanation on the

 P a g e 36 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

statement of the Secretary and the Treasurer of SHG&PH on the issue of

bogus donation. Therefore, the AO was right in making

disallowance/addition in the hands of the assessee treating the same as

bogus donation, which was received back by the assessee. Ld CIT DR

pointed out that the claim of donation u/s.35(1)(ii) of the Act was rightly

disallowed and added back to the total income of the assessee. Ld CIT DR

prayed that the ld CIT(A) has granted relief without any reasonable cause

and basis, therefore, the impugned order may kindly be set aside that of

restoring the order of the AO. 53. Replying to above, ld A.R. placed reliance on the order of the ITAT

Kolkata 'B' Bench in the case of EBIW Info Analytics Pvt Ltd vs ITO in ITA

No.582/Kol/2019 order dated 13.11.2019 for A.Y. 2014-15 and submitted

that the Co-ordinate Bench of this Tribunal by following another order of

ITAT Kolkata in the case of Narbheram Vishram in ITA No.s42 &

43/Kol/2018 for A.Ys 2013-14 & 2014-15, has allowed the claim of donation

u/s.35(1)(ii) made to SHG&PH. Therefore, the findings recorded by the ld

CIT(A) in para 2.2 of the impugned order may kindly be upheld accepting

the claim of the assessee towards making donation to same

organisation/institution. Ld AR submitted that the AO has not brought any

material on record to show that the amount of donation given by the

assessee was refunded back to the assessee by the donee in cash, per

contra, the documents relied by the AO clearly shows that the AO has

 P a g e 37 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

verified the genuineness of the approval obtained by the Organisation for

the purpose of section 35(1) from the competent authority and only

thereafter has given donation for scientific research. Ld AR strenuously

contended that the assessee cannot be held liable for misdeeds of the

school and the fraud committed by them by helping assessee to evade tax

by way of bogus donation unearthed during survey conducted after passage

of long time. Ld AR again drew our attention to para 2.1 & 2.2 of the

CIT(A) order and submitted that no evidence has been brought on record

that the assessee has got back the donation money from the donee

organisation on payment of commission, the donation cannot be treated as

bogus unless and until, it is established by way of concrete reliable and

adverse material/documents that the amount of donation given was

returned back in cash or any other modeto the assessee after deducting

some amount as commission by the office bearers/secretary or treasurer of

the donee organisation. Para 2.1 & 2.2 of the impugned order read as

follows: ••■ 54. Ld AR submitted that the survey action u/s.133A of the Act was

carried out on 27.1.2015 at the registered office of SHG&PH, the donee by

the Investigation Wing, Kolkata subsequently and not before granting of

donation by the assessee and the assessee had granted donation to the

donee SHG&PH much prior during financial year 2012-13 to the date of

survey which was carried on 27.1.2015. Therefore, the claim of the

 P a g e 39 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

assessee for donation towards scientific research cannot be denied or

dismissed on the basis of subsequent survey action against the donee after

passage of about two years' time without any adverse material against the

assessee regarding receiving back entire or part amount of donation in

cash. 55. On careful consideration of the rival submission, first of all, from the

para 4 of the assessment order, we observe that the AO has disallowed the

claim of the assessee towards donation by holding that the donee SGH&PH

is not involved in any scientific research activities and they used to receive

bogus donation through cheque, RTGS & simultaneously returns money

after deducting 7% to 8% of donation amount as commission. During first

appellate proceedings, the assessee through written submission contended

that the AO has disallowed claim of the assessee u/s.35(1)(ii) of the Act on

the ground upon a survey operation conducted on the donee institution on

27.1.2015, the office bearers had admitted that it was not a genuine

organisation. It was also submitted that at the point of time when the

donation was given, the organisation during A.Y,. 2012-13 was enjoying

approval from the Income tax authorities to receive donation u/s.35(1)(ii) of

the Act and the appellant had granted donation to the organisation after

being thoroughly satisfied about its status as an approved organisation for

receiving donation for the purpose of scientific research to be claimed

u/s.35(1)(ii) of the Act. It has not been controverted that the assessee has

 P a g e 40 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

given donation through banking channel and at the time of granting

donation, the donee organisation was enjoying the approval of Income tax

authorities u/s.35(1) of the Act during F.Y. 2012-13. It is also in dispute

that the survey proceedings u/s.133A of the Act was conducted on the

donee organisation much after grant of donation by the assessee on

27.1.2015. 56. From conjunct reading of assessment order and order of ld CIT(A),

we are of the considered views that undisputedly, donation has been given

by the assessee to SGH&PH through banking channel and this

organisation/institution was duly approved by the competent income tax

authorities for accepting donation for scientific research as per the provision

of section 35(1) of the Act at the time of grant of donation by the assessee. 57. It is also not in dispute that subsequently office bearers of school

have stated during the course of survey operation u/s.133A of the Act on

27.1.2015 accepted that the donations are received through agents and

refunded the donation to the respective donors in exchange of 7% to 8%

commission. Ld CIT(A) rightly observed that from the statement of office

bearers of donee organisation/school, it is seen that they have given

generalised statement and nowhere the donation given by the assessee was

refunded back to the assessee in cash. At the same time, we also note that

the assessee has submitted certain statement before the authorities below,

which shows that the assessee has verified the genuineness of the approval

 P a g e 41 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

obtained by the school for the purpose of section 35(1) from the competent

authority and only thereafter has given the donation for scientific research.

We are in agreement with the findings of the ld CIT(A) that there is no

evidence brought on record to show that the assessee has got back the

donation money from the school on payment of commission, therefore, the

donation cannot be treated as bogus. At the time of granting donation, the

assessee was very much aware that the donee institution was enjoying the

status of scientific research organiasation/insrtitution eligible for receiving

donation u/s.35(1) of the Act and, therefore, we are unable to see any

ambiguity and perversity in the findings of the ld CIT(A) and hence, we

uphold the same. Ground No.1 of appeal for A.Y. 2013-14 is dismissed. 58. The revenue in ground No.4 for A.Y. 2013-14 has challenged the

deletion of addition made by the AO under the head "disallowance of

peripheral development charges" of Rs.1,85,46,330/-. 59. Apropos this Ground of appeal, both the parties agreed that the facts

and circumstances for A.Y. 2013-14 are similar to the facts and

circumstances for the assessment year 2013-14 on the issue of disallowance

of periphery development charges. While deciding the Ground No.4 of

appeal for A.Y. 2012-13 on similar issue, we have dismissed the ground

No.4 of appeal of revenue and our conclusion drawn therein would apply

mutatis-mutandis to Ground No.4 of appeal for A.Y. 2013-14. Hence,

Ground No.4 of appeal of revenue is dismissed. P a g e 42 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

ITA Nos.393 & 394/CTK/2017 for A.Y. 2012-13 & 2013-14 -
Assesse's appeal. 60. Ground No.1 of appeal for A.Y. 2012-13 & 2013-14 are general in

nature. 61. Ground No.2 for A.Y. 2012-13 and A.Y. 2013-13 is common i.e.

disallowance under section 14A of the Act. Hence, we proceed to

adjudicate the facts for the assessment year 2012-13. 62. Ld A.R., challenging the action of the Assessing Officer in making the

addition u/s.14A of the Income tax Act, (in short 'the Act') submitted that

the ld CIT(A), in his order in para 3.2 noted that the contention of the

appellant that she has not incurred any expenditure for earning of dividend

income , cannot be accepted. Ld A.R. submitted that though the appellant

has not claimed any expenditure, the AO made addition merely on

presumption of incurring expenses against exempt income, without

recording any reason as per requirement of section 14A of the Act. Ld A.R.

submitted that the key words in sub-section (2) of Section 14A of the Act

are that "if the AO, having regard to the account of the assessee, is not

satisfied with the correctness of the claim of the assessee, in respect of

such expenditure". Ld A.R. further submitted that sub-section(3) of Section 14A of the Act further provides that the provision of sub-section (2)

shall also apply in relation to a case where the assessee claims that no

expenditure has been incurred by him in relation to income, which does not

 P a g e 43 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

form part of the total income. Ld A.R. further pointed out that hence, it

implies that method prescribed under Rule 8D of Income tax Rules, 1961

(in short 'the Rules') is applicable, where the AO has to record reasons for

such non-satisfaction about the claim as well as accounts of the appellant

after the verification and examination of books of accounts and financial

statement of the assessee. Ld A.R. has placed reliance on the following

judicial pronouncements: iii) Joint Investments Pvt Ltd vs CIT , 372 ITR 694 (Delhi) iv) Maxopp Investment Ltd vs CIT, 402 ITR 640 (SC) v) DCIT vs Integrated Coal Mining Ltd (ITA No.1031/Kol/2017). 63. Furthermore, ld A.R. submitted that therefore, if the AO, having

regards to the assessee is not satisfied with the amount of the claim of the

assessee, in respect of such expenditure in relation to exempt income,

which does not form part of the total income, as per the provision of section

14(2) and 14(3) of the Act, the AO is bound to record his dissatisfaction

about the claim of expenditure or claim of no expenditure against exempt

income from the books of account. Drawing our attention towards finding

record by the authorities below, ld A.R. submitted that in the instant case,

the AO without recording any observation or finding that, having regard to

the accounts of the assessee that he is not satisfied with the correctness of

 P a g e 44 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

the claim of assessee in respect of such claim of expenditure or no

expenditure, observed that "though the assessee has not claimed any

expenditure for such exempt income, there is every possibility that the

investments from which such exempt income is earned might have been

made out of loan account, for which assessee paid interest. Ld A.R. further

drew our attention towards relevant para 6.1 at page 6 of the CIT(A) order

and submitted that the ld CIT(A) in his order mentioned that "during

assessment proceeding, the appellant had explained that she has a capital

balance of Rs.441.11 crores as on 31.3.2012 and funds borrowed was

exclusively utilised for the purpose for which those were obtained". Ld A.R.

further explained that the term loan of Rs.84.74 crores raised from HDFC

Bank was utilised for acquiring windmills to the extent of Rs.90.00 crores

and there was no scope for appellant to utilise the loan fund otherwise or

for making investment for earning exempt income. 64. Further, ld A.R. placed reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay

High Court in the case of CIT vs HDFC Bank , 366 ITR 505 (Bom), wherein,

it is held that where the assessee's capital net profit, reserve, surplus and

current account deposit were higher than investment in tax free securities,

it would have to be presumed that the investment made by the assessee

would be out of interest free fund, available with the assessee. Ld AR

pressing into service this proposition rendered by Hon'ble High Court

submitted that the ld CIT(A) concluded that interest bearing loan from bank

 P a g e 45 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

have been utilised for the creation of asset i.e. windmills and it has not

been diverted and this fact has not been controverted by the AO in any

manner. Ld A.R. vehemently pointed out that the assumption of the AO

that interest bearing loans has been utilised for investment in shares has no

base in view of the findings recorded by the ld CIT(A) in para 6.1 at page 6

of first appellate order. Ld A.R. also contended that the AO has not

demonstrated in the assessment order that on examination of account he

could be able to locate any expenditure incurred or attributable to earn

exempted income and also he has not recorded his dissatisfaction on

account of the claim of the assessee that no expenditure has been incurred

for earning exempt income as provided in sub-section (3) of Section 14A of

the Act. Ld A.R also submitted that the appellant has sufficient funds in her

capital account and total investment in Mutual funds, share, deposit and

payment to insurance is less than the amount of capital, therefore, there is

no possibility or chance of investment of borrowed funds in shares, Mutual

Funds and deposit, therefore, the AO on wrong assumption without

recording dissatisfaction switched over and jumped to Rule 8D of Income

tax Rules to computed the disallowance, which is not sustainable and valid

as per mandate of section 14A of the Income tax act, 1961. 65. Ld A.R. further submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

of CIT vs Reliance Industries Ltd. , in Civil Appeal No.10 of 2019 order

 P a g e 46 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

dated 2.1.2019 heard and disposed of with the observations noted as

under: 66. Ld A.R. lastly submitted that the observations of the AO as well as ld

CIT(A) are only assumption that the appellant might have incurred certain

expenses to earn exempt income. He submitted that without recording

dissatisfaction having regard to the accounts of the assessee about the

claim of the assessee that no expenditure has been incurred for earning

exempt income, on assumption only, the disallowance u/s.14A of the Act

r.w Rule 8D of the Rules, it is not correct and sustainable and the AO was

not correct in making addition and ld CIT(A)is not justified in confirming the

same. He finally prayed that the addition made by the AO and confirmed

by the ld CIT(A) be ordered to be deleted. 67. Replying to above, ld CIT DR submitted that under section 14A of the

Act, statue provide for presumptive expenditure which has to be disallowed

by force of statue. He placed reliance on the order of the ITAT Chennai in

the case of M.A. Alagappan vs ACIT , 82 Taxmann.com 276 (Che.Trib). Ld

D.R. further placed reliance on the decision of ITAT Delhi in the case of Delhi Towers Ltd vs DCIT , 78 taxmann.com 56 (Del) and submitted that the

mere fact that the AO did not expressly recorded his satisfaction, while

 P a g e 47 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

making the disallowance, would not per se destroy mandate of section 14A of the Act. Ld CIT DR supporting the orders of lower authorities submitted

that the assessee has not claimed any expenditure towards earning of

exempt income, hence, there is every possibility that the investment from

which such exempt is earned might have been made out of the loan

amount, for which the assessee had paid interest and claimed in the profit

and loss account. Therefore, the AO was correct in making addition and ld

CIT(A) was also justified in confirming the same. Drawing further our

attention towards para 5 & sub-para 2 & 3 of the assessment order, ld

CIT DR submitted that the expenditure is attributable to such earing is not

ascertainable, the only method available for such claim under Rule 8D of

I.T. Rules and the AO rightly computed the presumptive amount of

disallowance u/s.14A of the Act as per Rule 8D of I.T. Rules and there is no

defect or deficiency in the calculation made by the AO in this regard. Ld

CIT DR concluded his arguments by submitting that the orders of lower

authorities may kindly be upheld by confirming the addition. 68. Placing rejoinder to above, ld A.R. submitted that in the case of M.A.

Alagappan (supra), the Tribunal held that where the assessee claimed that

no expenditure is incurred by the assessee in relation to income which does

not form a part of total income under the Income tax Act, statue has

provided for presumptive expenditure which has to be disallowed by force

of the Statute. Ld A.R. submitted that the ITAT Chennai in this order has

 P a g e 48 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

relied upon the judgement of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pradeep Khanna vs ACIT in ITA Appeal No.953 of 2015 order dated

11.8.2016 and the decision of Coordinate Bench of ITAT in the case of

Justice Sam P. Bharucha vs Addl. CIT, 53 SOT 192. In the case of Justice

Sam P. Bharucha (supra), in para 5.1, it has been clearly mentioned that no

notional expenditure can be apportioned for the purpose of earning exempt

income unless there is an actual expenditure and the income not forming

part of total income and in para 5.2, it has also been mentioned that the AO

has not given any finding that any of the expenditure incurred and claimed

by the assessee is attributable for earning the exempt income. Hence, section 14A cannot be applied to the above case. In para 6, it has been

mentioned that sub-section(3) further provides that even in case where an

assessee claims that no expenditure was incurred, the Assessing Authority

has to presume that the incurring of such expenditure as provided with sub-

section (2) read with Rule 8D. Ld A.R. submitted that neither in section 14A nor in Rule 8D of I.T.Rules, there is no mentioning of mandate that the AO

is entitled for making presumptive disallowance. Therefore, the observation

of the Chennai ITAT in the case of M.A. Alagappan (supra) is against the

law and mandate of section 14A of the Act. 69. Further, ld A.R. submitted that the order of ITAT Delhi in the case of Delhi Towers (supra) is not applicable in the present case at hand. Ld A.R.

comparing the facts and circumstances of the case of Delhi Tower (supra)

 P a g e 49 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

with the present case submitted that in para 11 of the said order of ITAT

Delhi, a calculation of disallowing expenditure was given in the paper book

and the Tribunal, from the balance sheet and profit and loss account,

observed that there is no fresh investment that has been made by the

assessee during the year under consideration and the dividend income has

been earned from old investment. Thereafter, the Tribunal observed that

the ld CIT(A) was not correct in confirming the entire disallowance made by

the AO and restricted the disallowance to the tune of exempt income

earned by the assessee. Ld A.R. submitted that in the present case, the

assessee has not submitted any calculation regarding disallowance under section 14A r.w. 8D of I.T.Rules a. The ld A.R. strenuously contended that

from the observations of the AO in the assessment order and findings

recorded by the ld CIT(A) in the impugned order clearly reveals that the

authorities below have not made substantial compliance of mandate of

statutory provisions of section 14A r.w Rule 8D of I.T.Rules. Therefore, the

order of ITAT Delhi in the case of Delhi Towers (supra) are not applicable

in favour of the revenue in the present case having dissimilar facts and

circumstances. 70. Ld A.R. vehemently pointed out that the ld CIT DR has not shown

any judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court and Hon'ble High Court favouring

his stand that before making disallowance and consequent addition u/s.14A r.w Rule 8D of I.T.Rules, showing that no satisfaction is required to be

 P a g e 50 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

recorded by the AO regarding the claim of expenditure attributable to

earning of exempt income or claim of no expenditure of the assessee or

dispensing the compliance of requirement of sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A of the Act. Per contra, there are number of judgments by

Hon'ble Supreme Court, Hon'ble High Courts and Co-ordinate Benches of

this Tribunal to support the contention of the assessee that for making

substantial compliance and sustainable addition u/s.14A r.w. Rule 8D, the

AO is mandatorily required to record his dissatisfaction, having regard to the

accounts of the assessee, that he is not satisfied with the correctness of

the claim of the assessee in respect of such expenditure or no expenditure

in relation to income which does not form part of the total income under

this Act. 71. Ld A.R. placed reliance on the decision of ITAT Panaji in the case of

Sesa Goa Ltd (supra) to submit that before making any disallowance under section 14A of the Act, the AO is required to record his satisfaction having

regard to the accounts of the assessee, that claim of the assessee that

expenditure incurred is not related to income forming part of total income is

incorrect and such satisfaction may be arrived at an objective basis. Ld A.R.

further submitted that in this order, the Tribunal has held that the AO is

required to record reasons for arriving at such satisfaction. In the instant

case, the AO has not made such exercise before proceeding to make

disallowance u/s.14A r.w Rule 8D. P a g e 51 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 72. Further drawing our attention towards order of ITAT Mumbai in the

case of J.K. Investors (supra), ld A.R. submitted that it is imperative that

the AO can invoke Rule 8D only when he records satisfaction in regard to

the correctness of the claim of the assessee, having regard to the accounts

of the assessee. Therefore, the condition precedent for AO entering upon a

determination of the amount of the expenditure incurred in relation to

exempt income is that the AO must record that, having regard to the

accounts of the assessee, he is not satisfied with the correctness of the

claim of the assessee in respect of such expenditure or no expenditure, as

the case may be, in relation to exempt income. 73. Further, placing on the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the

case of Joint Investment Pvt Ltd (supra), ld A.R. submitted that as per sub-

section (2) of Section 14A of the Act, the jurisdiction to proceed further and

determine the amount of disallowance could be derived only after

examination of the accounts and rejection of the assessee's claim or

explanation. Ld A.R. further pointed out that in this judgment, Hon'ble High

Court has clearly laid down the proposition that the AO can proceed to

make disallowance u/s.14A r.w Rule 8D only when the AO rejects the claim

of the assessee that expenditure claimed by the assessee towards earning

of exempt income or claim that no expenditure has been incurred for

earning of exempt income is rejected. P a g e 52 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 74. Further placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Maxopp Investment Ltd (supra), ld A.R. drew our attention to

para 41 of the judgement and submitted that having regard to the language

of section 14A(2) of the Act, r.w. Rule 8D of the Rules, Their Lordships have

made it clear that before applying the theory of apportionment, the AO

needs to record satisfaction that having regard to the kind of the assessee,

suo moto disallowance under section 14A was not correct. Ld A.R. further

pointed out that sub-section(2) of Section 14A of the Act talks about suo

moto disallowance or expenditure shown by the assessee towards earning

of exempt income and sub-section(3) of Section 14A provides that the

provisions of sub-section (2) shall also apply in relation to a case where an

assessee claims that no expenditure has been incurred by him in relation to

income which does not form part of the total income under this Act and the

present assessee's case falls within the ambit of sub-section(3) of Section

14A of the Act. 75. Reliance has also been placed by the ld AR on the decision of ITAT

Kolkata in the case of M/s. Integrated Coal Mining Ltd (supra) to submit

that in this case, it was observed that the AO has not examined the

accounts of the assessee and there was no satisfaction recorded by the AO

about the correctness of the claim of the assessee and without the same,

he invoked Rule 8D of I.T.Rules. It was also held that while rejecting the

claim of assessee with regard to expenditure in relation to exempt income,

 P a g e 53 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

the AO has to indicate cogent reasons for the same but no such exercise

has been undertaken. Ld A.R. submitted that the AO had straight away

embarked upon computing disallowance under Rule 8D of the Rules and it

was concluded that the AO is bound to record his dissatisfaction only from

books of account of the assessee before proceeding to make disallowance

under section 14A of the Act r.w. Rule 8D of the Rules. 76. Ld A.R. also placed reliance on the decision of ITAT Cuttack in the

case of ACIT vs Patnaik Minerals Pvt Ltd in ITA No.231/CTK./2015 for A.Y.

2011-12 order dated 3.8.2017 to support his contention. 77. Ld A.R. also drew our attention towards recent decision of Hon'ble

Gujarat High Court in the case of Principal CIT vs CIMS Hospital Pvt Ltd (2020) 4 NYPCTR 244 (Guj) order dated 25.2.2020 and submitted that the

AO can apply Rule 8D only if the AO having regard to the accounts of the

assessee is not satisfied with the correctness of the claim made by the

assessee in respect of such expenditure in relation to the exempted income

and consequently, it was held that the Tribunal was justified in deleting the

disallowance. Therefore, the disallowance made by the AO and confirmed

by the ld CIT(A) for both the assessment year may kindly be deleted. 78. On consideration of above noted rival submissions, first of all, we

are of the view that it would be appropriate to reproduce relevant section

14A of the Act for proper adjudication of the ground of the assessee

 P a g e 54 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

challenging the confirmation of disallowance by the ld CIT(A) made by the

AO u/s.14A of the Act r.w. Rule 8D, which reads as under: 79. In our humble understanding, the mandate of section 14A of the Act

has been based on the theory that there must be proximate cause based on

relationship of expenditure that tax exempt income is established, only then

a disallowance has to be made u/s.14A of the Act. The onus to establish

proximate cause based on the relationship of the expenditure that the

exempt income is established is on the revenue. Thus, the application of

provisions of sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A of the Act r.w Rule 8D is

not automatic in each and every case, where there is income not forming

part of total income, the assessee is earning exempt income. In our

considered opinion, sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A of the Act are

 P a g e 55 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

intended to enforce and implement the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 14A of the Act. As per sub-section (2), it is necessary for the AO

first to ascertain where there is proximate connection between the

expenditure incurred and the income not forming part of the total income.

Under this Act, in accordance with such method , as may be prescribed, if

the AO having regard to the accounts of the assessee, is not satisfied with

the correctness with the claim of the assessee in respect of such

expenditure in relation to income which does not form part of total income

under this Act, then, the AO would be justified in applying provisions of sub-

section(2) & (3) of Section 14A of the Act r.w. Rule 8D for making the

disallowance. 80. Keeping in view above mandate of section 14A of the Act, we

proceed to adjudicate the ground of the assessee challenging the

disallowance made by the AO under section 14A of the Act r.w Rule 8D.

From the relevant para 5 of the assessment order, we observe that in sub

para (1), the AO noted that the assessee has shown investment that yield

tax free income and he show caused the assessee to explain as to why

provisions of section 14A shall not be resorted to. In response to said show

cause notice, ld A.R. of the assessee stated that the assessee has not

incurred nor claimed any expenditure in respect of such income, hence, no

disallowance is warranted for. Thus, the case of the assessee falls within

 P a g e 56 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

the ambit of sub-section (3) of Section 14A of the Act. Further, from sub

para (2) of para 5, we observe that the AO observed as under: 81. Thereafter, the AO mentioned the provisions of Rule 8D in the next

sub-para (3) and immediately after recording said provisions, he proceed to

calculate the disallowance under Rule 8D of the I.T.Rules. From above

noted analysis of relevant paras of the assessment order, it is clear that

after receiving reply of show cause notice from the assessee that the

assessee has not claimed any expenditure in respect of such income, hence,

no disallowance is required to be made, the AO without complying with the

mandate of sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A directly jumped to an

imaginary conclusion "that the assessee has not claimed any expenditure

for such exempt income, there is every possibility that the investment from

which such exempt income is earned might have been made out of the loan

amount, for which the assessee paid interest". 82. Thus, there is no whisper or mention by the AO in the assessment

order para 5 complying with the mandate of sub-section(2) & (3) of Section

14A of the Act, which requires that the AO shall determine the amount of

expenditure incurred in relation to such income which does not form part of

total income under this Act in accordance with such method, as may be

 P a g e 57 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

prescribed, viz; Rule 8D of I.T.Rules, if the AO, having regard to the

accounts of the assessee, is not satisfied with the correctness that the claim

of the assessee in respect of such expenditure, in relation to exempt

income. Thus, we safely presume that the AO has not made or undertaken

any exercise as per mandate of sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A before

proceeding to make disallowance while invoking or resorting to Section 14A of the Act r.w Rule 8D. 83. From the relevant part of the CIT(A) order, i.e. para 3.2, we observe

that the ld CIT(A) has confirmed the addition by observing that the

contention of the assessee that it has not incurred any expenditure for

earning of dividend income cannot be accepted and there has to be

expenditure incurred for such earning. Hence, provisions of section 14A are

clearly attracted. Thereafter, ld CIT(A) further observed that since the

expenditure attributable to such earning is not ascertainable, the only

method available for such calculation is Rule 8D of the I.T.Rules and the AO

has computed the expenditure as per Rule 8D and such calculation

appeared to be correct, as the assessee has not pointed out any error in

such calculation. Lastly, ld CIT(A) noted that similar disallowance has been

confirmed by ld CIT(A)-2 for assessment year 2010-2011 by order dated

28.1.2015, therefore, the disallowance made by the AO is confirmed. 84. In our considered opinion, the basic principles of taxation is to tax

net income and the exemption has to be allowed on the net basis i.e. gross

 P a g e 58 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

receipts (-) related expenditure. Hence, if the expenditure is directly

related to exempt income, it cannot be allowed to set off against the

taxable profit and if any expenditure is directly related to taxable income, it

cannot be allowed to set off against the exempt income merely because

some incidental benefit has arisen towards exempted income. 85. On vigilant and careful understanding of intention of the legislature

and the mandate given in section 14A of the Act, we are of the humble view

that before making disallowance u/s.14A of the Act, the AO is required to

record satisfaction that having regard to the accounts of the assessee, he is

not satisfied with the correctness that the claim of the assessee in respect

of such expenditure, in relation to exempt income not forming part of total

income is incorrect. Such satisfaction must be arrived at on the objective

basis. 86. As we have noted above, in the instant case, the AO simply show

caused the assessee and after taking on record reply of the assessee merely

observed that though the assessee has not claimed any expenditure for

such exempt income that there is every possibility that the investments

from which such exempt income is earned might have been made out of

loan account, for which assessee paid interest. But there is no exercise as

per mandate of sub-section (2) & (3) of Section 14A of the Act by the AO,

having regard to the accounts of the assessee, is not satisfied with the

 P a g e 59 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

correctness that the assessee has not incurred any expenditure for such

exempt income. 87. From the vigilant reading of ld CIT(A) order para 3.2, it is vivid that

no such exercise has been undertaken by the ld CIT (A) before confirming

the disallowance made by the AO as per mandate of sub-section (2)& (3) of

the Section 14A of the Act. 88. Before reaching to any conclusion, we also find it appropriate and

necessary to consider the ratio of case laws cited by both the parties. 89. Ld CIT DR has placed reliance on the order dated 6.1.2017 of ITAT

Delhi Bench in the case Delhi Towers Ltd (supra), wherein, it was held that

where the AO proceeded to make disallowance under section 14A of the Act

r.w. Rule 8D in respect of exempt dividend income earned by the assessee,

mere fact that AO did not expressly record his satisfaction while making said

disallowance, would not per se destroy mandate of Section 14A of the Act. He placed another order of ITAT Chennai in the case of M.A.Alagappan (supra), order dated 3.4.2017, wherein, it was held that even no

expenditure is incurred by an assessee in relation to income which does not

form part of total income under the Act, statute has provided for

presumptive expenditure which has to be disallowed by force of statute, the

assessing authority has to apply Rule 8D of the i.T.Rules. 90. When we respectfully consider the ratio of the judgment relied on by

ld A.R., then we find that in the recent judgment order dated 25.2.2020 in

 P a g e 60 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

the case of CIMS Hospital Pvt Ltd (supra), Hon'ble Gujarat High Court held

that the AO can apply Rule 8D only if the AO having regard to the accounts

of the assessee is not satisfied with the correctness of the claim made by

the assessee in respect of such expenditure in relation to the exempted

income. As we have noted above in earlier para of the order, the AO in the

present case did not record such satisfaction prior to invoking of Section

14A of the Act r.w Rule 8D of I.T.Rules, he could not have made any

disallowance. Further in the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Maxopp Investment Ltd (supra), Their Lordships speaking for the

Apex Court held in para 41 thus: 91. Furthermore, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Joint

Investments Pvt Ltd (supra) in para 8 held thus: 92. In the case of Sesa Goa Ltd.,(supra), Co-ordinate Bench of ITAT

Panaji allowed the ground of the assessee challenging the addition made

under section 14A of the Act r.w Rule 8D of I.T.Rules by observing that

before making any disallowance under section 14A , AO is required to record

a satisfaction, having regard to accounts of assessee, that claim of the

assessee that expenditure incurred is not related to the income, which is

forming part of total income, is incorrect. 93. In view of foregoing discussion and after considering the prepositions

and interpretation laid down by various judgments including the judgment

of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Maxopp Investment Ltd (supra) and

judgment of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of CIMS Hospital Pvt Ltd (supra), it is imperative that the AO can invoke Rule 8D of the I.T.Rules

only when he records his satisfaction in regard to correctness of the claim of

the assessee viz; suo moto disallowance of expenditure or no expenditure,

having regard to the accounts of the assessee. The conditions precedent

created by the legislature for the AO entering upon the determination of the

accounts of expenditure incurred in relation to exempt income is that the

AO himself record that he is not satisfied with the correctness of the claim

of the assessee in respect of suo moto disallowance or claim of no

 P a g e 62 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

expenditure for earning exempt income. Obviously, while rejecting the

claim of the assessee in regard to suo moto disallowed expenditure or no

expenditure, as the case may be, in relation to exempt income, the AO has

to indicate cogent reason for the same and for recording such cogent

reasons, it is required that the AO has to examine the accounts of the

assessee first and then if he is not satisfied with the correctness of such

claim, only then he can invoke the provisions of section 14A of the Act r.w

Rule 8D of the I.T.Rules. in the present case, as we have discussed above,

that neither from the assessment order nor from the first appellate order,

the authorities below have not considered the claim of the assessee that no

expenditure has been incurred for earning exempt income as per mandate

of section 14A of the Act From the relevant part of the assessment order, it

is clearly discernible that the AO has not considered the claim of the

assessee filed in response to the show cause notice that no expenditure has

been incurred for earning exempt income and he straightforward embarked

upon and jumped to compute the disallowance under Rule 8D of Rules on

the presumption that there is every possibility that the investments made

from which such exempt income is earned might have been made out of

loan amount, for which the assessee has paid interest. The disallowance

u/s.14 A of the Act requires findings of the AO that the claim of the assessee

pertaining to suo moto disallowance or no expenditure is not correct having

regard to the accounts of the assessee and thereafter only the AO is validly

 P a g e 63 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

entitled to compute disallowance under Rule 8D of the Rules. In absence of

such exercise, the disallowance made by the AO cannot be held as valid and

sustainable in view of mandate given by the legislature for invoking

provisions of Section 14A of the Act. 94. The decisions relied upon by ld CIT DR have been passed by Co-

ordinate Benches of Chennai and Delhi ITAT in the year 2017.

Subsequently, the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Maxopp Investment Ltd (supra) dated 12.2.2018 has expressly cleared all

the clouds and doubts on the issue and categorically held that the AO needs

to record satisfaction that having regard to the claim of assessee's suo

moto disallowance u/s.14A was not correct. In that eventuality, it will have

to record its satisfaction, oblivious in the assessment order, to this effect

prior to proceeding to make disallowance. Similar view has been expressed

by Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the recent judgment in the case of CIMS

Hospital Pvt Ltd (supra). The judgement of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Maxopp Investment Ltd (supra) and Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in

the case of CIMS Hospital Pvt Ltd (supra) are binding on all the authorities

below including the Tribunal. Therefore, respectfully following the same we

hold that the addition made by the AO and confirmed by the ld CIT(A)

under section 14A of the Act r.w. Rule 8D of I.T.Rules is not valid and

sustainable. Therefore, we direct the AO to delete the addition. Our

 P a g e 64 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

conclusion on this issue would apply mutatis mutandis to the assessment

year 2013-14. Hence, Ground No.2 of appeal for both the assessment

years is allowed. Ground No.3 of assessee for A.Y. 2013-14. 95. In Assessment Year 2013-14, in Ground No.3, the assessee has

challenged the disallowance of expenditure of Rs.1,28,39,665/- towards

periphery development charges as partly confirmed by the ld CIT(A). 96. First of all, we note that the revenue had challenged the disallowance

of Rs.1,85,46,330/- towards periphery development charges incurred by the

assessee towards renovation and development of roads in around the

mining area for better movement of transportation, the deletion of

disallowance by the CIT(A) has been upheld by us in earlier part of this

order in the appeal filed by the revenue. However, the assessee has

challenged the confirmation of addition of Rs.1,28,39,665/- by the ld CIT(A)

towards the amount incurred for purchase of mosquito nets of

Rs.1,24,39,665/- and donation to Social Health Education Development

Society towards watershed development, for which, the assessee is in

appeal before us. 97. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the record of the

case of the Tribunal. P a g e 65 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela 98. Ld A.R. of the assessee submitted that the mining activities of the

assessee is carried in the Tribal area being surrounded by the dense forest

where, the residents are generally affected by Malaria. He submitted that

the forest area being wetland, which is the breeding ground of mosquitoes,

generally affected the resident in this disease. That is the vital ground for

distributing the mosquitoes to the people of mining area for their safety and

the assessee had purchased 51,000 mosquito nets for Rs.1,24,39,665/- for

distribution among the resident of mining area. The expenses incurred by

the assessee were on welfare schemes only which are for malaria

eradication for which, the assessee distributes mosquito nets. He also

submitted that amount of Rs.4,00,000/- has been given to Social Health

Education Development Society for water shed development as donation,

which is for the business purposes of the assessee. He submitted that the

order of the ld CIT(A) on this count be reversed by allowing the appeal of

the assessee. 99. Replying to above, ld CIT DR submitted that the purchase of

mosquitoes has not satisfied the test of commercial expediency, hence, ld

CIT(A) has rightly disallowed the same. As regards the amount of donation

of Rs.4 lakhs, ld CIT(A) submitted that the donation to Social Health

 P a g e 66 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

Education Development Society for water shed development does not fulfil

the business compulsion. 100. On careful consideration of the rival submissions, we find that the

assessee has distributed 51,000 mosquitoes to the resident of mining area

to prevent them from malaria for an amount of Rs.1,24,39,665/-. We do

not find any positive ground that expenses towards distribution of mosquito

nets etc against malaria eradication fulfil the criteria the test of commercial

expediency. We observe that the ld CIT(A) while confirming the addition

held as under: 101. The findings of the ld CIT (A) could not be controverted by ld A.R.

except pointing out that mosquitos are distributed among the resident of

mining areas for the eradication of malaria. We also find that there is no

 P a g e 67 | 68
 Smt. Indrani Patnaik A-6, Commercial Estate, Civil Township,
 Rourkela

business connection of the assessee for donating Rs.4 lakhs for water shed

development to Social health Education Development Society, hence, we

affirm the findings of the ld CIT(A) in confirming the addition of

Rs.1,28,39,665/-. Ground No.3 of assessee for A.Y. 2013-14 is dismissed. 102. In the result, appeals of the revenue for assessment years 2012-13 &

2013-14 are dismissed and appeal for the assessment year 2012-13 is

allowed whereas appeal for A.Y. 2013-14 is partly allowed.