?If There’s One Story To Read Today

With generative-AI tools making their way into public life, the brewing copyright concerns are soon expected to bring in legal implications for companies like OpenAI. Given that an AI tool would be scraping the information from some corner of the web, publishers and creators would naturally be like, “Hey, that piece of information there is my work!”.

What data is used to train these AI-systems? It’s a question that copyright lawyers want the companies creating these tools to answer and be transparent about. The artists have already set their notes on the table; now some news outlets like CNN and The Wall Street Journal want to be paid to license content to OpenAI for AI training purposes.

Whether companies will have to pay these outlets for using their work to train their AI models or enter into a deal with each one of them, only time will tell. The developments in this space will potentially shape the ways in which Machine Learning and AI training will be undertaken in the near future. Read this 3-minute story here .

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

What does the future hold for internet, broadcast, and telecom regulation? Find out at the MediaNama discussion in Delhi on February 24. We’ll also discuss issues related to Same Service Same Rules, Quality of service requirements for online services, competition concerns highlighted by the TRAI, and definition of telecommunication services.

MediaNama subscribers can attend this event virtually too!

Click here to know more. Register now!

Beware of ‘dark patterns’: Ever been frustrated with how difficult it is to unsubscribe a certain newsletter? Or to cancel a certain subscription? These and many such tactics are used by websites to get more attention, money or whatever else they want. This is no small thing and detrimental to internet users. Read this story to understand how manipulative designs, also called dark patterns, are used to manipulate user choices. [ Read , 3 minutes ]

Is issuing a disclaimer a copyright infringement? Google issues a warning every time someone tries to download the WinZO gaming app from its website. WinZO went to the Delhi High Court and argued that the warning infringes its trademark. The Delhi High Court settled the matter, as you’ll see in this piece. What we can’t stop thinking about: isn’t this more of a competition issue? [ Read , 2 minutes ]

Same old surveillance, different state: Taking a leaf out of West Bengal’s educational board’s books, Uttar Pradesh has installed around 3 lakh CCTV cameras to prevent cheating in Class 10 and 12 board exams. Equipped with voice recorders and webcasting services, these cameras contribute to the longstanding debate over how such monitoring infringes on students’ right to privacy and raises issues of data storage and retention. [ Read , 2 minutes ]

There’s two (or more) sides to every announcement: Twitter’s new controversial                           move to make SMS-based two-factor authentication (2FA) only available to Twitter Blue subscribers has raised alarms as this could put many users at risk of having easy-to-hack accounts. The company is arguing that fraudsters are scamming the company with this feature, but critics argue that Twitter could have found another way to deal with fraud. Elon Musk also claimed that other forms of 2FA are better, which is true, but then what’s the deal with Twitter giving its Blue subscribers this inferior security feature as an option? ?  [ Read , 3 minutes ]

Japan’s central bank to pilot digital currency starting in April [ Read ] (Kate Par/TechCrunch)

China plays catch-up to ChatGPT as hype builds around AI [ Read ] (Ryan McMorrow, Nian Liu, Eleanor Olcott, Madhumita Murgia/Financial Times)

The Internet Economy Is in a ‘Recession’ [ Read ] (Drake Bennett/Bloomberg)

WhatsApp for iOS gets picture-in-picture feature for video calls [ Read ] (Ivan Mehta/TechCrunch)

Amazon Corporate Workers Face Pay Reduction After Shares Slip [ Read ] (Dana Mattioli, Sebastian Herrera/The Wall Street Journal)

Daily Mirror publisher explores using ChatGPT to help write local news [ Read ] (Arjun Neil Alim/Financial Times)

From retail to transport: how AI is changing every corner of the economy [ Read ] (Joanna Partridge, Phillip Inman, Alex Lawson, Jasper Jolly, Richard Partington, Gwyn Topham, Kalyeena Makortoff, Sarah Butler/The Guardian)

Elon Musk, U.S. discussed Starlink in Ukraine, Blinken says [ Read ] (Michael Martina and Richard Cowan/Reuters)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event