Petitioner No.2, namely, Mr. B.N. Sethi owned a truck bearing No.GJ-6-TT-6564 which he had got insured with the Insurance Company for the period 5.12.2009 to 4.12.2010. During subsistence of the insurance policy, the driver of Mr. B.N. Sethi took the vehicle to GIDC, Halol for transporting goods. He, however, did not return with the vehicle. The incident was report to the police on 25.1.2010 but the complainant was asked to search for the vehicle and, therefore, the FIR came to be registered only on 28.1.2010. The claim lodged with the insurer, however, was rejected vide letter dated 28.5.2010 which to the extent it is relevant reads as under:- "We have considered the papers sent by you and the facts and circumstances of the case and in our view the present one is not a theft simpliciter, as per The FIR lodged by you.  The driver ran away with The truck which was insured with us. According to our policy  condition when a commercial vehicle is stolen by the driver or cleaner of The insured, it does not fall under The definition of " Theft" but it is a case of criminal breach of trust. FIR filed with Karelibag police station vide CR No I-15/2010 under section 406 & 420 of IPC. Further police authority filed Summary "A" at Court 13, Vadodara which is being approved by honourable judicial authority. Section 406 of Indian Penal code is suggesting provisions for punishment for criminal breach of trust, Section 420 of Indian Penal code is cheating and Dishonestly inducing delivery of property, and section 114 of Indian Penal Code Abettor present when offense is committed. Further as per the policy condition claim for theft of vehicle not payable if theft not reported to company within 48 hours of its occurrence. The vehicle was stolen on 22.1.2010, you have reported to us on 1.2.2010. In the circumstances, in our view claim is not considered as a Theft of the vehicle/insured peril as per the terms and condition of the policy. Competent authority repudiate your claim which please note." 2.      It appears that a representation was thereafter made by Mr. Sethi. In response to the said representation, the insurer, vide letter dated 2.7.2010, took the following stand with respect to his claim:- 3.      Being aggrieved from the rejection of the claim, the complainant - Mr. B.N. Sethi approached the concerned District Forum along with an organisation, namely, Jagrut Nagrik. The complaint was resisted by the insurer primarily on the ground that this was not a case of theft and, therefore, the loss was not covered under the insurance policy. 4.      The District Forum having dismissed the complaint. The petitioners approached the concerned State Commission by way of an appeal. The said appeal also having been dismissed, they are before this Commission by way of this revision petition. 5.      As far as the delay in reporting the theft to the insurer is concerned, though this was one of the grounds for rejection of the claim, no such plea was taken in the written statement filed by the insurer before the District Forum. This was also not the stand taken in the letter dated 2.7.2010. As a result, the complainants did not get an opportunity to explain the delay in reporting the theft to the insurer. In my view, considering that the aforesaid plea was not taken either in the letter dated 2.7.2010 which  followed the previous letter dated 28.5.2010 nor in the written version filed by the insurer before the District Forum, the said plea should not have been considered and the complaint should not have been rejected on that ground. 6.      As far as the second plea taken by the insurer is concerned, it has repeatedly been held by this Commission, that such a case would constitute theft in terms of the definition given in Section 378 of the Indian Penal Code though it may also constitute a criminal breach of trust. Reliance in this regard is placed upon the decision of this Commission in Revision Petition No.2601 of 2017 - Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Dhanraj Surana , decided on 31.10.2017. 8.      The decision of this Commission in Dhanraj Surana (supra), to the extent it is relevant reads as under:- 8.      The learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Ishar Das Madan Lal , (2007) 4 Supreme Court Cases 105.  In the case before the Hon'ble Supreme court, the respondent, which was a Jeweller had lodged a claim alleging theft of jewellery by a customer to whom the jewellery was temporarily handed over by the complainant.  The question before the Hon'ble Court was as to whether the handed over the jewellery to a customer amount to entrustment.  Ruling in favour of the complainant and against the insurance company, the Hon'ble Supreme Court inter-alia held as under:- 16. In Webster's Universal Dictionary meaning of the word 'entrust' reads as under : 17. Apart from the fact that the said meaning of the term "entrustment" goes against the submission Mr. Mehra, we may notice that in Black's Law Dictionary the word "entrusting" in commercial law has been described as: 9.      In the case relied by the learned counsel for the petitioner, the Hon'ble Supreme Court was not concerned with the question as to whether a case of the driver of a vehicle found missing along with vehicle would constitute theft or criminal breach of trust.  On the other hand, the above referred decisions of this Commission directly cover a case where the driver takes a vehicle and then does not return.  Moreover, this Commission has also taken the view that such a case will also amount to a malicious act and therefore the loss would be covered under the insurance policy taken by the owner of the vehicle.  Since I am bound by the previous decisions of this Commission rendered by a Larger Bench, it is not open to me to take a contrary view unless the aforesaid decisions are shown to be per incuriam.  The petitioner however has failed to show that the aforesaid decisions rendered by the Larger Bench of this Commission are per incuriam." 5.      For the reasons stated hereinabove, I hold that this was a case of theft of the vehicle, though it may also possibly constitute a case of an offence punishable under Section 406 of IPC.  Once it is held that it was a case of theft, there was no escape from the conclusion that the petitioner was liable to reimburse the complainant for the loss suffered by him." 9.      For the reasons stated hereinabove, the impugned orders cannot be sustained and the same are accordingly set aside. The respondent is directed to assess the claim on merit in accordance with law and settle the same within three months from today. The revision petition stands disposed of accordingly. No order as to costs. ......................J V.K. JAIN PRESIDING MEMBER