Winsome Textile Industries Ltd. Corporate Office: SCO 191-192,
 Sector 34A, Chandigarh - 160 022
 Punjab. 2. Ashish Bagrodia
 H No. 351, Sector 9-D,
 Chandigarh - 160 009
 Punjab. ..... Appellants

 Versus

 Securities and Exchange Board of India
 SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
 Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
 Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

 Shri P. N. Modi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kunal Katariya
 and Mr. Prakash Shah, Advocates i/b Prakash Shah &
 Associates for the Appellants. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Ms. Nidhi Singh,
 Ms. Deepti Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Mr. Raghav
 Taneja, Advocates i/b Vidhii Partners for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 251 of 2022 Aspire Emerging Fund
 C/o Aurisse International Limited,
 Citadelle Mall, Sir Virgil Naz Street,
 Port-Louis,
 Maurititus. ..... Appellant 2 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate with Mr. Kunal
Kataria, Ms. Ashmita Goradia and Ms. Vidhi Mehta,
Advocates i/b Aagam Doshi for the Appellant.

Mr. Sumit Rai, Advocate with Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms. Deepti
Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Mr. Raghav Taneja, Advocates
i/b Vidhii Partners for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 342 of 2022 Davos International Fund
Rockmills Financials Ltd. 3 River Court, St. Denis Street,
Port Louis, Mauritius. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Dikshat Mehra, Advocate and Ms. Anjali Dhoot,
Advocate i/b Rajani Associates for the Appellant.

Mr. Sumit Rai, Advocate with Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms. Deepti
Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Mr. Raghav Taneja, Advocates
i/b Vidhii Partners for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 343 of 2022 Leman Diversified Fund
Rockmills Financials Ltd. 3 River Court, St. Denis Street,
Port Louis, Mauritius. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Abishek Venkataraman, Advocate with Mr. Dikshat
Mehra, and Ms. Anjali Dhoot, Advocates i/b Rajani
Associates for the Appellant. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Ms. Nidhi Singh,
Ms. Deepti Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Mr. Raghav
Taneja, Advocates i/b Vidhii Partners for the Respondent. AND Appeal No. 345 of 2022 Sparrow Asia Diversified Opportunities Fund
Rockmills Financials Ltd. 3 River Court, St. Denis Street,
Port Louis, Mauritius. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Dikshat Mehra
and Ms. Anjali Dhoot, Advocate i/b Rajani Associates for the
Appellant. Mr. Sumit Rai, Advocate with Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms. Deepti
Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Mr. Raghav Taneja, Advocates
i/b Vidhii Partners for the Respondent. CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Ms. Meera Swarup, Technical Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. Five appeals have been filed by six noticees against the

order dated December 15, 2021 passed by the Whole Time

Member („WTM‟ for short) of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India („SEBI‟ for short). The noticee no. 1,

Winsome Textile Industries Limited („Winsome‟ for short)

was restrained from accessing the securities market for a

period of 3 years and were further directed to bring back the

outstanding GDR proceeds, namely, USD 9.018 million. The

noticee no. 1 was further penalized a sum of Rs. 4.40 crore for

violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992 and Regulation 3 and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices

relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter

referred to as „PFUTP Regulations‟). In addition to the

aforesaid, noticee nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17 were debarred from 5 accessing the securities market for a period one year and

noticee no. 4 was further directed to disgorge a sum of Rs.

1,11,52,500/- along with noticee nos. 2 and 3 jointly and

severally. Further, noticee no. 2 was debarred for two years

and a penalty of Rs. 44 lakh was imposed. 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeal is,

that the Board of Directors of the Company known as

Winsome Textile Industries Ltd. passed a resolution on

September 16, 2010 for opening a bank account with

European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter

referred to as „EURAM Bank‟) for depositing the GDR

proceeds. 3. The resolution approved by the Board of Directors

resolved that a bank account would be opened with European

American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter referred to as

„EURAM Bank‟) for the purpose of receiving the subscription

money in respect of GDR issue. Further, amongst, other,

noticee no. 6 Managing Director, Shri Ashish Bagrodia was

authorised to sign and execute an agreement as may be

required by the Bank and take such steps from time to time on

behalf of the Company. The resolution further resolved to use 6 the funds deposited in the aforesaid Bank account as security

in connection with the loan, if any as well as to enter into any

escrow account or similar arrangement if and when so

required. 4. Based on the aforesaid resolution, the Company issued

1.2 million GDRs for USD 9.99 million on March 31, 2011.

The aforesaid GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely,

Vintage FZE (hereinafter referred to as „Vintage‟) and a

corporate announcement was made by the Company that the

entire issue was subscribed. In this regard, Pan Asia Advisors

Limited („Pan Asia‟ for short), notice no. 11 was the Lead

Manager which was totally controlled by noticee no. 2, Arun

Panchariya. 5. Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter

referred to as „SEBI‟) conducted an investigation pertaining

to the issue of GDR by the Company. Based on the

investigation, a show cause notice dated July 4, 2019 and

supplementary show cause notice dated July 10, 2020 was

issued to the Company, its Directors and other entities to

show cause as to why suitable directions under Section 11 and 11B should not be issued for violation of Section 12A(a) , (b), (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d) and 7 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k), (r) of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices

relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter

referred to as „PFUTP Regulations‟), Section 21 of the

Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 (hereinafter

referred to as the „ SCR Act ‟) read with Clauses 32, 36(7) and

50 of the Listing Agreement and Section 23E of the SCR Act. 6. The show cause notice alleged that pursuant to the

resolution dated September 16, 2010 not only a bank account

was opened with EURAM Bank but the Managing Director

executed a pledge agreement dated March 23, 2011 on behalf

of the Company with EURAM Bank in which the proceeds of

the GDR was to be kept as security with EURAM Bank.

Further, a loan agreement was executed between Vintage and

EURAM Bank, by which the Bank agreed to give a loan to

Vintage for the purpose of subscribing to the GDR. The show

cause notice further alleged that the pledge agreement and the

loan agreement was not disclosed to the stock exchange and,

consequently, the investors and shareholders were kept in the

dark. The show cause notice further alleged that based on the

pledge agreement and the loan agreement EURAM Bank

advanced USD 9.9 million to Vintage which amount was 8 utilised by Vintage to subscribe to the entire issue. The GDR

proceeds were pledged as security till such time the loan was

repaid by Vintage. It was also alleged that the fact that

Vintage was the sole subscriber was not intimated to the stock

exchange and to the Indian investors. Further, Vintage did not

repay the loan and defaulted, as a result, the Bank adjusted

USD 9.018 million from the GDR proceeds and, accordingly,

the Company and its Directors were charged with violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the

PFUTP Regulations. 7. The show cause notice further alleged that noticee no.

11, Pan Asia was the Lead Manager to the GDR issue and that

this entity was wholly controlled by Arun Panchariya, noticee

no. 2. It was further alleged that noticee no. 2 in connivance

with notice no. 1 and its directors along with the connected

entities, namely, noticee nos. 4 and 12 to 17 received

64,50,000 shares on conversion of GDR and that noticee no. 4

Aspire Emerging Fund sold converted shares worth Rs. 1.11

crore through noticee no. 12 who was also connected to Arun

Panchariya. The show cause notice alleged that Arun

Panchariya in connivance with the Company Winsome 9 devised and structured a fraudulent scheme through its

connected entities as named above which was fraudulent. 8. The WTM after considering the evidence on record

found that the entire scheme of using the GDR proceeds to

fund a subscriber to the GDR issue was a fraudulent scheme

and violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations

3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. The WTM found that the

GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely, Vintage and not

by five entities as disclosed by the Company. The WTM

further found that on account of the pledge created by the

Company with EURAM Bank the funds were not made

available at the Company‟s disposal and the same became

available in tranches as and when the loan amount was repaid

by Vintage. Further, the loan agreement was not disclosed to

the stock exchange and to the Indian investors. Further, the

disclosure made by the Company to the stock exchange that

the GDR issue was fully subscribed was misleading as the

investors were not informed that the GDR was subscribed by

only one entity and, therefore, the scheme hatched by the

Company and its Directors was violative of Section 12A of

the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 9. The WTM found that the non-disclosure of the loan

agreement and the pledge agreement was violative of Clause

36 of the Listing Agreement as well as Section 21 of the

SCRA Act read with Clause 32 and 50 of the Listing

Agreement. 10. The WTM further held that the outstanding GDR

proceeds were not received by Winsome and the bank

accounts statements shown by the Company indicated that

certain remittances were received in USD but held that it was

not possible to find out as to whether it was part of the GDR

receipts and therefore held that the adjustments of USD 9.018

million by EURAM Bank was never received by the

Company. The WTM came to the conclusion that the scheme

of issue of GDR of Winsome constituted fraud and that

noticee no. 2 i.e. Arun Panchariya connived with Winsome to

structure the fraudulent scheme of GDR and that the

Company did not receive the consideration for its GDR issue

to the tune of USD 9.018 million and therefore the Company

and its directors along with noticee no. 2 had violated Section

12 A of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 11. In so far as the noticee nos. 4 and 12 to 17 are concerned

the WTM after considering the evidence came to the

conclusion that these noticees are connected to noticee no. 2

Arun Panchariya and that these noticees received the GDR in

question and converted them into shares. The WTM further

found that only noticee no. 4 sold some of the shares and

other noticees had not sold the shares. The WTM on the basis

of the connection of these noticees with Arun Panchariya held

that the GDR were received by them without consideration

and therefore connected as party to the fraudulent scheme and

violated Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 12. We have heard Shri P. N. Modi, Shri Gaurav Joshi, the

learned senior counsel, Shri Somasekhar Sundaresan,

Shri Dikshat Mehra, Shri Abishek Venkataraman, Shri Kunal

Katariya, Shri Prakash Shah, Ms. Ashmita Goradia, Ms. Vidhi

Mehta and Ms. Anjali Dhoot, the learned counsel for the

appellant in respective appeals and Shri Shyam Mehta, the

learned senior counsel, Shri Sumit Rai, Ms. Nidhi Singh,

Ms. Deepti Mohan, Ms. Hubab Sayed and Shri Raghav

Taneja, the learned counsel for the respondent. 12 13. According to the learned senior counsel for the

respondent fraud in the present case has been committed upon

the investors in two stages. In the first stage Arun Panchariya

noticee no. 2 who is the Managing Director of Pan Asia,

noticee no. 11 in connivance with noticee no. 1 Winsome and

its directors subscribed to the GDRs through Vintage which

was wholly owned by Arun Panchariya. Thus the investors in

India was falsely made to believe that the issue was

subscribed by foreign investors when in fact the issue was

subscribed by one entity through Arun Panchariya. The

second stage of the fraud is that the GDR was acquired by

Vintage were then transferred to the Arun Panchariya‟s

connected sub-accounts namely noticee no. 4 and 12 to 17

who converted the GDR into shares and one such entity

namely noticee no. 4 sold part of the shares to the Indian

investors. These entities acted as party to the fraudulent

scheme and violated Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. Considering

the aforesaid this Tribunal has to see whether noticees 4, 14,

15 and 17 who are appellants before us were part of the

fraudulent scheme committed by Aurn Panchariya noticee no.

2 in connivance with noticee no. 1 and its directors and 13 whether these noticees were aware of these fraudulent

scheme. 14. Before dealing with this aspect of the matter we shall

deal with the first part of the fraud namely alleged fraud

committed by Winsome and its directors in connivance with

Arun Panchariya noticee no. 2. 15. In this regard the respondent supported the impugned

order and contended that the modus operandi is the same as

has been dealt with by this Tribunal in a large number of

matters relating to the GDR issue wherein this Tribunal has

held that the nondisclosure of the loan agreement and the

pledge agreement was totally fraudulent and violative of the

Listing Agreement. 16. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties we find

that the modus operandi in the instant appeals is the same and

has been dealt with by this Tribunal in a large number of

matters relating to the GDR issue wherein the Tribunal has

held that non-disclosure of the loan agreement and the pledge

agreement was totally fraudulent and violative of the Listing

Agreement. This Tribunal also held that the Company and its

MDs were aware of the execution of the pledge agreement as 14 well as loan agreement and it was no longer open to them to

deny the existence of the said agreements. This Tribunal also

held that the Company and its Directors misled SEBI into

believing that there were more subscribers to the issue and not

one subscriber. 17. We also held that Company and its MDs were aware of

the pledge agreement, non-disclosure of the pledge agreement

and loan agreement invited penalty. Further, the corporate

announcement did not disclose the fact that the subsisting

pledge agreement facilitated the subscribers to subscribe to

the GDR issue. The corporate announcement was misleading

and presented a distorted version to the investors and created

a false version inducing the investors to deal in securities.

The aforesaid findings have been given in a large number of

matters decided by this Tribunal especially in Appeal no. 381

of 2019, Sibly Industries Ltd. vs SEBI and other companion

appeals decided on July 14, 2022, Appeal no. 438 of 2020, Aksh Optifibre Ltd. vs SEBI and other companion appeals

decided on June 27, 2022 and Appeal no. 28 of 2022, Praveen Kumar Hastimal Shah vs SEBI and other

companion appeals decided on July 6, 2022. 15 18. Consequently, in the light of the aforesaid decisions the

findings against the Company, Winsome and noticee no. 6

does not require any interference nor we require to give

elaborate reasons. The findings of the WTM are upheld. 19. The learned senior counsel for the appellant contended

that finding of the WTM that the Company did not receive the

balance amount of USD 9.018 million is patently erroneous

and against the material evidence. The learned senior counsel

submitted that evidence was filed showing the balance

amount received by the Company in USD which has been

depicted by the WTM in paragraph 35 of the impugned order

wherein it was also stated that the remittances has been duly

certified by the statutory auditors and was also reflected in the

annual report for the year 2013-14. The said annual report

also indicated that the GDR proceeds have been utilized for

the purpose the issue was made. The learned senior counsel

contended in spite of the assertions of the appellant being

depicted in paragraph 35 of the impugned order the WTM

disbelieved the contention on the ground that the narration of

the remittances does not indicate the sender or the account

from which has been remitted making it impossible to state as

to whether the said amount was received as part of the GDR 16 proceeds. In our opinion this finding of the WTM is patently

perverse and based on surmises and conjectures. 20. We have perused the record. The evidences in the form

of the bank statements has been filed showing receipts of

certain remittances in USD. The statutory auditor of the

Company has also issued a certificate dated October 23, 2020

certifying:- 21. In addition to the aforesaid, the Company also filed a

certificate from a Chartered Accountant who was empanelled

with SEBI who also certified as under :- 22. The Annual Report for the above year 2013-14 was also

filed. Paragraph 27.3 of the explanatory notes to the Annual

Report is extracted here under:- 13,35 lacs). During the year the Company have received in India
 balance amounting to Rs. 4626.54 lacs (including
 exchange gain of Rs. 479.47 lacs) and the same have
 been utilized for the purpose the issue was made." 23. The above clearly indicates that the Company had

received the balance amount towards GDR proceeds and the

same has been utilized for the purpose the issue was made. 24. In the light of the aforesaid evidence which has not been

disputed and disbelieved, we find it difficult to accept the

finding given by the WTM in paragraph 36 to the effect that

the narration of the remittances does not indicate the sender or

the account from which has been remitted when two

Chartered Accountants are certifying that the GDR funds has

been received in USD and which is also reflected in the

annual reports coupled with the fact that the GDR proceeds

have now been utilized for the object of the issue. We are of

the opinion that the finding of the WTM in this regard cannot 18 be sustained. The direction of the WTM directing the

Company to bring back the outstanding amount of the GDR

proceeds is patently erroneous and cannot be sustained. 25. The learned senior counsel urged that for the violation

committed by the Company for the non-disclosure of the loan

agreement etc. penalty of Rs. 4.40 crore and debarment of

three years was excessive and in the given circumstances the

penalty should be proportionately reduced. 26. In this regard, in Excel Corp Care Limited vs

Competition Commission of India & Anr , (2017) 8 SCC 47,

the Supreme Court held:- 27. Similar view was expressed by the Delhi High court in

Rajkumar Dyeing and Printing Works Pvt. Ltd. In Rajendra

Yadav, the Supreme Court held that the doctrine of equality

applies to all those who are found guilty. The Supreme Court

held:- 28. Undoubtedly, the doctrine of proportionality is now well

established in our jurisprudence and is a recognised facet of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. In Andhra Pradesh

Dairy Development Corporation Federation vs. B. 20 Narasimha Reddy and Others (2011) 9 SCC 286, the

Supreme Court held: "29. It is a settled legal proposition that Article 14 of the Constitution strikes at arbitrariness because
 an action that is arbitrary, must necessarily
 involve negation of equality. This doctrine of
 arbitrariness is not restricted only to executive
 actions, but also applies to legislature. Thus, a
 party has to satisfy that the action was reasonable,
 not done in unreasonable manner or capriciously
 or at pleasure without adequate determining
 principle, rational, and has been done according
 to reason or judgment, and certainly does not
 depend on the will alone. However, the action of
 legislature, violative of Article 14 of the
 Constitution, should ordinarily be manifestly
 arbitrary. There must be a case of substantive
 unreasonableness in the statute itself for declaring
 the act ultra vires of Article 14 of the Constitution.
 (Vide: Ajay Hasia etc. v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi,
 Reliance Airport Developers (P) Ltd. v. Airports
 Authority of India , Bidhannagar (Salt Lake)
 Welfare Assn. v. Central Valuation Board, Grand
 Kakatiya Sheraton Hotel and Towers Employees
 and Workers Union v. Srinivasa Resorts Limited,
 and State of T.N. v. K. Shyam Sunder.)" The show cause notice alleged that the scheme of issuance of

GDR involving subscription of the GDR issue by obtaining

finance from EURAM Bank, by pledging the GDR proceeds,

non-repayment of complete loan by Vintage and monetizing

the GDR through sale by underlying shares of the Indian

Stock Exchanges by converting GDR was fraudulent. The

show cause notice also alleged that Arun Panchariya in

connivance with the Company i.e. Winsome devised and

structure the fraudulent scheme through connected entities,

namely, noticee nos. 4 and 12 to 17 and violated Section 12A and Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 35. Since the role of all these noticees is the same the facts

as depicted in the appeal of Aspire Emerging Fund, Appeal

no. 251 of 2022 is being taken for consideration. 25 36. Aspire Emerging Fund is a private company

incorporated in Mauritius with limited liability under the laws

of Mauritius on February 9, 2021 having its registered office

at Suite 1909, 19th Floor, Citadelle Mall, Dr. Eugene Laurent

Street, Port-Louis, Mauritius. 37. Aspire Emerging Fund holds a Category 1 Global

business license issued the Financial Commission of

Mauritius („FSC‟) in Mauritius as an expert fund licensed by

the FSC pursuant to the Financial Service Act 2007 („FSA

2007‟), the Securities Act, 2005 and the Securities (Collective

Investment Scheme and Closed end Fund) Regulations, 2008. 38. Aspire Emerging Fund was registered as a sub-account

with Golden Cliff from June 14, 2013 to February 28, 2017.

Aspire Emerging Fund is also registered as Foreign Portfolio

Investor („FPI‟) with SEBI under the erstwhile SEBI (Foreign

Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 from February 28,

2017. 39. Aspire Emerging Fund received GDRs of Winsome

from Ambrus Value Fund Limited („Ambrus‟ for short) in

2013 i.e. over two years after the GDR issue. The 26 consideration for the same was in the form of subscription,

i.e. issuance of 2006461 Class AEF-1 non-voting redeemable

participating shares for consideration of USD 2006461.21 to

Ambrus. 40. Aspire Emerging Fund converted 4,58,718 GDRs to

22,93,590 shares of Winsome. Out of the total converted

GDRs, Aspire Emerging Fund sold 3,15,000 shares and

received a total sale consideration of Rs. 1.12 crores. Aspire

Emerging Fund continues to hold 19,78,590 equity shares of

Winsome. 41. The aforesaid facts were categorically stated by the said

noticee before the WTM in its reply. The said noticee had

specifically contended that they had no dealings with Arun

Panchariya or with any other connected entities. The appellant

had no connection with Winsome or its Directors and were

not aware of any scheme being orchestrated by Winsome in

connivance with Arun Panchariya and / or Vintage. It was

categorically stated that the appellant was not aware of the

loan agreement or of pledge agreement. 42. The WTM held that noticee no. 4 was connected with

Arun Panchariya. The WTM found that one of the directors 27 Aslam Kanowah was also a director in noticee no. 16,

namely, Highblue Sky Emerging Market Fund (HBSF) and

that the owner of HBSF, namely Anant Kailash Chandra

Sharma was a director in Sai Sant Advisory (I) P. Ltd. in

which Arun Panchariya was also a director and, on this basis,

the WTM concluded that noticee no. 4 was connected to Arun

Panchariya and acted as a party to the fraudulent scheme. The

WTM further came to the conclusion that noticee no. 4 acted

as a conduit to Arun Panchariya by receiving GDRs of

Winsome without consideration. 43. Similar finding has also been given against the

remaining noticees, namely, noticee nos. 14, 15 and 17 which

has been depicted in paragraph 73 of the impugned order. The

connection is similarly drawn on the basis of the connection

depicted in paragraph 52 of the impugned order. 44. At the outset, we are of the opinion that the second stage

of fraud as alleged in the impugned order and in the show

cause notice is different and distinct from the first stage of the

alleged fraud. We are of the opinion that the entities involved

in the second stage of the alleged fraud have nothing to do

with the alleged fraud involved in the first stage as there is no 28 material to suggest any connection of noticee nos. 4, 14, 15

and 17 with noticee no. 1 and its directors and noticee no. 3.

The first stage of the fraud is with regard to the issuance of

the GDR issue in connivance with the Company Winsome

and its directors with Arun Panchariya and Vintage. The

second stage of the alleged fraud is the conversion of GDR

into shares by noticee nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17 and selling it in

the Indian market. We find that noticee nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17

has no connection with the Company Winsome or its

directors. Further, the alleged connection with Arun

Panchariya is too remote and there is no evidence to suggest

that Vintage passed on the GDR or sold the GDR to noticee

nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17. Thus, first stage of the alleged fraud are

distinct and different and the entities involved in the alleged

second stage are not involved in the first stage. A specific

assertion was made that they are not aware of the loan

agreement or the pledge agreement and WTM has not dealt

into these issues and therefore we are of the opinion that these

entities involved in the second stage was not privy to the

fraud played in the first stage by the Company and its

directors along with Arun Panchariya and Vintage. There is

no direct involvement of noticee nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17. 29 45. In our opinion the finding given by the WTM is

perverse and without any consideration of the material facts

which were before it. The findings that the GDR was received

by these noticees without consideration is based on no

evidence and is purely based on surmises and conjectures. A

specific contention was raised by noticee no. 4 that it had

received GDR from one entity, namely, Ambrus Value Fund

(paragraph 67 of the impugned order) and that noticee no. 4

had issued participating shares and therefore noticee no. 4 had

received the GDR for valuable consideration. There is no

allegation nor any finding that Ambrus is connected in any

manner to Arun Panchariya or to Vintage. Further a specific

assertion was made by the noticee no. 4 that it had received

the GDR for valuable consideration which is also depicted in

paragraph 67 of the impugned order but a finding has been

given by the WTM in paragraph 17 that it had received GDRs

without consideration which in our opinion is patently

perverse. Once the GDR has been received for valuable

consideration we are of the opinion that the finding given by

the WTM that noticee no. 4 had received the GDR without

consideration is not based on any evidence. Consequently, we

hold that finding that the GDRs were received by the

appellants without any consideration is based on no evidence. 30 46. We also find that the finding that these noticees were

connected to Arun Panchariya is patently erroneous and too

remote. By this connection it cannot be presumed even on the

basis of probability that these noticees were party to the

fraudulent scheme connived by Arun Panchariya with the

Company and its directors. Thus, the finding that these

noticees acted as a conduit by receiving GDRs of the

Company is patently erroneous. 47. There is no finding that the proceeds of the shares sold

by noticee no. 4 was eventually received by Arun Panchariya

or by Vintage. In the absene of such finding we are of the

opinion that the shares were validly sold by noticee no. 4 on

the Stock Exchange for consideration which cannot be treated

as tainted or violative of Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 48. There is no finding that these noticees had knowledge of

the fraudulent issue of GDR or the fact that Vintage had

acquired the same for free. There is no finding that these

noticees have acquired the GDRs from Arun Panchariya or

Vintage and only a presumption has been drawn that these 31 noticees have received the GDRs from Arun Panchariya.

On the other hand, these noticees have annexed documents

showing the subscription of the participating shares of the

appellants which clearly shows that these noticees did not

acquire the GDR from Vintage or from any entity that was

owned and controlled by Arun Panchariya. Thus, we are of

the opinion that the appellants cannot be held to have

knowledge of the fraud connived by Arun Panchariya with

Winsome. 49. We also find that the controversy with regard to these

noticees is squarely covered by a decision of this Tribunal in

the case of KII Limited vs SEBI, Appeal no. 317 of 2017

decided on June 8, 2018. In KII, the facts described reveals

that KII had borrowed money from Panchariya and then

purchased the GDR with the said monies. Upon cancelling the

GDR it converted them to shares and sold them in the Indian

market and thereafter KII transferred the funds to

Mr. Panchariya. This Tribunal concluded that Mr. Panchariya

had committed a fraud in the first part, i.e. subscription of the

GDR by Vintage by using the proceeds of the GDR as

security to get a loan to subscribe to the GDRs. The entities

who were dealing with the GDRs in the ordinary course of 32 their business did not know about the fraud perpetrated, and

even if there existed a commercial relationship between Mr.

Panchariya and such funds, the same could not be extended to

state that the said entity were party to the said fraud. 50. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the opinion that no

case is made out against noticee nos. 4, 14, 15 and 17.

The direction of debarment against these noticees cannot be

sustained. The direction against noticee no. 4 to disgorge an

amount of Rs. 1,11,52,500/- is patently erroneous and cannot

be sustained. 51. For the reasons stated aforesaid, while affirming the

order of the WTM for the violations committed by the

Company we reduce the penalty against the Company to

Rs.25 lakhs. The debarment of three years is reduced to the

period undergone. Similarly, the penalty imposed upon

noticee no. 6 is excessive and harsh. While affirming the

order of the WTM, we reduce the debarment of two years to

the period undergone. The penalty of Rs. 44 lakh is reduced to

Rs. 20 lakh. Appeal no. 348 of 2022 is partly allowed. 52. Appeal no. 251 of 2022 (Aspire Emerging Fund),

Appeal no. 342 of 2022 (Davos International Fund), Appeal 33 no. 343 of 2022 (Leman Diversified Fund) and Appeal no.

345 of 2022 (Sparrow Asia Diversified Opportunities Fund)

the impugned order insofar as it relates to these appellants

cannot be sustained and are quashed. The appeals are allowed. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member

13.09.2023 MADHUKAR Digitally signed by
 MADHUKAR
 SHAMRAO
 SHAMRAO
msb BHALBAR
 BHALBAR
 Date: 2023.09.13
 14:14:10 +05'30'