SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The Current Govt propaganda machine.
DATE: 2018-04-18
SCORE: 37
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8cyvmg/the_current_govt_propaganda_machine/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have a few doubts on how this machinery works

People like shubhrasthra and kanchan always bring "out of the world" conspiracy theories. Even asifa case was fake for them.

When the ATMs have gone "cashless" they still keep on manufacturing stories. While it seems perfectly the plot, that BJP are diverting cash for Karnataka elections.

The banks have been involved in dubious action for some time. 

Most of the NPA tally in India is from 100 accounts. Why doesn't the RBI name and shame them? RW people say that it would adversely affect ease of Biz. 

Also, the IBC allows defaultee promoters to rejoin the bidding process which I do see with sufficient suspicion. Although it has not been misused till now, the provision has significant scope of abuse.

RW activists say petrol has been deregulated. No it hasn't. It has been allowed to deregulate on prices that had already significant margins ( by way of carbon tax) established, as oil prices collapsed internationally. Deregulation happened only as prices started recovering. 

Employment. RW people believe employment will happen eventually.
Well only a few lakh of jobs have been generated in the last 4 years. The IT and telecom sector has seen significant attrition. Govt jobs have been killed off in the name of Minimum Government. However, Government has only maximized in the last few years. UPSC is looking for lateral entry, wherein there will be significant revolving door problem.

Aadhar and Electoral bonds : most people here do recognize the threat of aadhar. One another thing is the fake promises on data safety. Well let me tell you something. Whenever your data is in the hand of a centralized entity, it may get hacked. If it really does, what protection does the government provide?

Let's take the recent leaks of Uber and Zomato. RbI is forcing us to give KYC on Paytm. But, whatif, tomorrow those data are sold on darknet?

Let alone these, the draft of data protection laid down by Srikrishna committee lays down differentiated data reqt for pvt n public.Furthermore it wants minimum data usage and laying before the user the reqts. But how will it control all those? Most servers are not India based. The cellphones we use are not built in India. So they neednot comply with Indian jurisdiction.

Electoral bonds are well , a means to pump money into BJPs coffers. How? 1. Previously there was a limit that only 7.5% of profit can be paid. With the limit removed even loss making companies can now donate 2. Will allow efficient lobbying as entirely anonymous to all but RBI. (As the RBI knows, the govt knows, and it can screwball the opposition)

Social security: In the name of labor welfare, this govt even planned to tax EPFO and is systematically killing retirement benefits. With all their Bhakti for soldiers OROP has been a "half ass" deal. 

RW agenda people say people are preferring biz to jobs. But I have a question. What biz? Pakodas? Lets accept the Truth that MUDRA mostly makes Shishu Loans, that are inept to really finance good projects. Furthermore significant favoritism exists in loan processing.
Startups don't have any favorable climate in India. Japan, korea, USA are embracing crypto and blockchain. Here we tell Flipkart to shut shop. Here we tell Ola that you aren't fit to serve our needs. Lol.

Demonetisation, the scam of the century. Was meant to push out counterfeiting. Have we really ended that? No. Was meant to end black money. How many big stakeholders burnt their hand? None. Cashless economy? Lol. Tax compliance? Most of the new taxpayers are in 0 tax slabs. 98.9% cash returned. The amount lost in printing new money? Much more than 1.1% of the previous circulation. So, a loss. Whose money gone? Yours n ours.

Safety of women: whatever be your conspiracy theory, they love raping women irrespective of what be their religion. The propaganda machine wants you to believe its all terrorism, but its hardly so. 

Make in India ; exclusively for motabhais and dhongibabas.