SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Cancer treatment phishing scam alert
DATE: 2016-12-25
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5k8d7n/np_cancer_treatment_phishing_scam_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

Lately I and my wife have received numerous phone calls mostly from the Delhi region(in Hindi) requesting help for some patient. Most of the times it follows the same theme - They work for a NGO in Delhi and help Cancer patients particularly children. Their NGO is a government approved NGO(whatever that means). Some child is dying and needs urgent care and medicines. One of their colleagues is at the hospital and they need urgent help and they ask you to check their website. If I am satisfied with the website, I should send them the money immediately like in 15 mins.

 They usually call you sometime in the evening. At times they claim they work for some hospital and at times they say that they work for the cancer cell. But everytime they ask you to check their website. Most of them are hilariously inept but some of them can be very convincing. I have no clue how do we both ended up on their scanner or how they got hold of our numbers. The last time they sent this hilarious text message as a follow up. I will copy it here word by word. I haven't even bothered to check that website as God knows what kind of spam I will get from it. Has anyone else here received similar calls? How does one go about reporting such scams and get them shut down? This has been happening for over more than 2 months now. I am sure some gullible people would have fallen for it by now. 

The message in question :

Dear saviour govt site is www.ngo.india.gov.in plz login nd right side option is of ngo directory see 4rd option search.than the nxt page wl ask fr unique id which is 0073333.than u wud b able to chek the info abt our ngo. Mam the website is www.Nationalngo.Org Plz login this site and help for baby faiz only 10 year old poor boy child, plz mam help this boy asap because its very emergency case .plz save the life of this boy. I m waiting for your positive response. 
with hope volunteer riya from national org.