SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The doctor performed a rectal biopsy on my mother without anesthesia, while staff held my father back as mother screamed in unbearable pain. 
DATE: 2024-09-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1fe9lz0/the_doctor_performed_a_rectal_biopsy_on_my_mother/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mother had been sick for over a year, refusing to believe she could have cancer, dismissing it as a "white people’s illusion." Despite losing 20 kg, reducing her to just 30 kg, and experiencing severe symptoms like needing to use the toilet up to 80 times a day with blood in her stool, she avoided seeing a doctor saying superior ayurvedic medicine is the way to go and western medical is a white people's big fraud and god will fix everything

Whenever i or my brother mentioned cancer, my parents attacked us and screamed at us. Saying you learned this white people's illusion from the internet and i should believe in god

After months of denial, when the pain became unbearable, she finally rushed to the hospital, crying and screaming in agony. The doctor suggested she get tested for cancer. At the government cancer hospital, a doctor immediately performed a biopsy without any prior imaging like an MRI or X-ray without any anesthesia. He continued cutting for quite some time as she screamed in unbearable pain, so loudly that my father tried to intervene, but the hospital staff restrained him.

i am a 25 years old man. I am from gwalior and this was done yesterday. She is almost 63 and now looks like a skeleton and cries all day. I am far far away from her also. Also, she told my brother that still pieces of meat are coming out in piss. My family is really poor and they are living in total dark for past 9 days in boiling indian heat without even a fan as electricity of my house has been cut off due to not being able to pay the electricity bill. They are both 60+ and really weak and they cry. Mosquitoes bite them day and night.

Whenever you try to discuss anything as to what to do next, she start to scream and abuse and throw stuff which is her usual nature regardless of all this. My parents are really abusive and they didn't send me and my little brother to any school and we have literally have zero education and no way to earn money.

I don't know if she wouldn want to come out and speak againts the hospital in media or public. 

Also please don't talk about donation or raising funds for her. Its not possible as my family is extremely castist.